I choose you: Noel was able to pick one campmate who would be his personal adviser to be part of his inner circle and the presenter decided on Harry Redknapp

'It's an act': Others insisted Noel's critics needing to lighten up and reiterated his demands were all part of his act Noel Edmonds makes entrance into the jungle dressed as an Emperor

Seeing the funny side of the situation as the campmates squealed with delight while rain fell down, Noel exclaimed 'Hail' before jokingly adding 'And rain. And some sunny periods later!'

Asked how he was feeling he replied 'wonderful. And moist!'

Referencing Noel's famous quiz show, Malique Thompson-Dwyer shouted out 'no deal' after the campmates were informed that Emperor Noel would rule over them.

As Emperor, Noel would be exempt from doing any work in the camp, and the celebrities became known as gladiators who would perform tasks and face trials in order to win food for him and his inner circle.

Tough: The first part of the Trial was named Biteus Intensius, and saw Fleur and Sair stand side by side in a cage as they moved a star down a thread to a red bolt only using their tongues

Noel was able to pick one campmate who would be his personal adviser, who would be part of his inner circle and give him good council, and the presenter decided on Harry Redknapp.

Accepting his task, Harry boasted: 'Peasants behave yourselves. I can now control this mob. If you misbehave you're now going to get bad jobs.'

It was then revealed that the Emperor would be given the chance to choose which four gladiators who would undertake the Unleash The Beasts trial.

First asking for volunteers and then shooting them down for putting their hands up, Noel picked Fleur and Sair and then Nick and James.

Difficult trial: They only three minutes in which to complete the Trial, and the pair would also have to deal with the green ants that covered the cages

The first part of the Trial was named Biteus Intensius, and saw Fleur and Sair stand side by side in a cage as they moved a star down a thread to a red bolt only using their tongues.

They only had three minutes in which to complete the Trial, and the pair would also have to deal with the green ants that covered the cages.

Starting together, Fleur was quick to finish thanks to her impressive technique, and while Sair did lag behind she was able to complete on time to win both stars.

After completing the Trial, Fleur hilariously declared: 'Oh my god, I've got ants in my pants, that's what is feels like. It's like they had a map to my hoo-har.'

Challenging: The second part saw James and Nick compete in the Trial Crittercus Maximus, and the pair had to lie down in a cage and undo knots on ropes which had stars on the end

Covered: Their task was made even harder as they had 5kgs of mealworms, 5000 crickets, 5000 cockroaches, 20 scorpions and 20 large spiders poured onto them

The second part saw James and Nick compete in the Trial Crittercus Maximus, and the pair had to lie down in a cage with their heads touching in the middle.

Having to undo the knots that that were on their respective ropes in order to release a star, their task was made even harder as they had 5kgs of mealworms, 5000 crickets, 5000 cockroaches, 20 scorpions and 20 large spiders poured onto them.

Despite the critters converging on them, Nick kept his cool as he told James to 'just ignore them' as they fought to untangle the knots.

They succeeded with seconds to spare, which meant that the gladiators were able to collect a total of four stars which pleased Emperor Noel.

Joining sides: The success meant that the Emperor and his inner circle would be able to share meals, but Noel had to choose which team to join him, and picked Fleur and Sair's teams

Tough choice: He said, 'I was going to choose the fastest performers. I thought that was the only fair way because all four did so well but I'm hoping the ladies will join us for dinner'

The success meant that the Emperor and his Inner Circle would be able to share meals together, but that meant that Noel had to choose which team to join him.

He declared: 'I respect the bravery of the gladiators. I was actually going to choose the fastest performers.

'I thought that was the only fair way because all four did so incredibly well but I'm hoping the ladies will join us for dinner.'

Dec asked him if he thought his inner circle were wise, but he hit back: 'Leave it out. It's going to be an interesting dinner chat.

'And I know having just arrived the rest of this, is all coming my way. I'm going to make the most of it because I know hell is about to unleashed on me!'

Wow: Holly and Dec looked on as the task got underway

Stellar effort: Fleur and Sair were selected to join Emperor Noel's inner circle

The campmates talked about the moment that Emperor Noel was revealed, with Emily saying: 'It was the best moment ever.'

Will he be gracious or will he be a meglomaniac' questioned Nick. 'I think he'll be a bit of both. I think he'll go in strong and assert his authority and hopefully he'll ease off as time goes on' replied James.

But showman Noel didn't hesitate to get stuck into his new role and cheekily ordered the celebrity campers to pick up the pace as he led them back to camp.

Scroll: Returning to the camp, they saw that it had been completely made over to become the lavish new Emperor's Camp

Returning to the camp, they saw that it had been completely made over to become the lavish new Emperor's Camp.

There was a throne by the fire, an Roman Palace complete with two beds with duvets and towels and a podium. 'That was nice for Emperor Noel' said Malique.

Emperor Noel sat down on his throne, unfurled a scroll and asked if everyone was paying attention. 'Yes Emperor' replied John. 'Oi, that was said with a bit of sarcasm, pack it in. I didn't ask for this role,' laughed Noel.

'You're enjoying it though' replied John with a smile.

Emperor Noel said: 'Welcome to the Emperor's Camp. The Roman Palace is a private residence for the Emperor and his advisor.

'No one else is allowed to sleep in the palace. The Emperor's throne is only to be used by the Emperor. When the bell tolls the Emperor and his advisor must enter the Palace to attend to Imperial business.'

'Are you hungry?' asked Rita, before saying: 'Get used to it'.

John asked Emperor Noel if Advisor Harry could sit in his throne for a while as he had a stiff back, to which he agreed.

Harry declined the offer and said he was fine on the bed but joked he'd like everyone to call him 'Assistant Emperor' rather than 'Harry' – the camp laughed.

Candid: Talking in the Bush Telegraph about his and Noel's new roles, Harry said: 'When you're a manager or coach you always have the tough guy and the nice guy

Talking in the Bush Telegraph about his and Noel's new roles, Harry said: 'When you're a manager or coach you always have the tough guy and the nice guy.

'This is how we do it in football and I think we're going to have to work that way here too.'

Emperor Noel and Harry were sat in camp on a bed, Emperor Noel looked around and said 'I so much want to change everything here, just get this sorted, I mean it's a mess isn't it?'

Sair asked what he'd like to change, Emperor Noel looked at her, smiled and said 'Re-organise the trees, they're all in the wrong order.' Sair and Anne laughed.

Emperor Noel was talking in the Bush Telegraph, 'I think Harry and I are going to have a lot of fun…' Harry walked in and said 'Did you want me?' Emperor Noel said 'Could you knock next time, on the way in, not the way out.

Noel and Harry decided to close the curtains to their Roman palace to discuss camp chores as they had to allocate roles.

Harry waved goodbye to the campmates and as he closed the curtains he jokingly said 'Goodbye peasants.'

Pensive: Emperor Noel and Harry were sat in camp on a bed, Emperor Noel looked around and said 'I so much want to change everything here, just get this sorted, I mean it's a mess isn't it?'

Rita looked up and told him not to forget where he came from, Harry replied 'I certainly know where I'm going to end up.'

Noel and Harry discussed who to allocate different camp roles. Sair and Fleur were exempt as they are part of the inner circle. Emperor Noel and Advisor Harry chose Nick and Emily to be chefs, Rita and John to take charge of wood and fire, while James, Anne and Malique took camp maintenance, including the dreaded dunny.

The episode began with Rita and James having a wash outside the dunny with the pair commenting on how bad the smell was.

Rank: The episode began with Rita and James having a wash outside the dunny with the pair commenting on how bad the smell was

James couldn’t understand why as they’d just emptied the dunny the other day. Malique then came out and Rita told him to put the seat down after using the toilet.

Rita then needed to use the toilet but couldn’t cope with the smell so put her bandana around her face as she went in.

Back in camp, Nick started singing which prompted John to join in and Fleur had a little dance, it was a happy camp.

Challenge: Rita and Malique had to get into the swamp and find tiles to place in a frame which then had to be organised into a picture with visual guidance from Emperor Noel and Advisor Harry

Giving the rendition his seal of approval Harry said: 'Nicks voice is gravelly but good.'

Nick announced that he’d created a game of Jungle quiots the previous night by twisting fronds from the Jungle, all the camp joined in and had fun playing the game but nobody managed to hook anything around the log.

Harry joined in last and hooked it straight away prompting a big cheer from camp.

Noel invoked the ire of actor John, 51, on his first day in the camp, as the 'emperor' accused him of scratching his groin as he delegated campmates duties.

Fuming: John came to blows with Noel on Thursday's episode of I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!

Oh dear: The former Deal or No Deal host, 69, invoked the ire of actor John, 51, on his first day in the camp, as the 'emperor' accused him of scratching his groin as he delegated campmates duties

Noel had already ruffled feathers with his late arrival into the camp, with the star appointed Emperor and setting his fellow campmates to work in a Roman gladiators inspired challenge.

After John stood up to ask Noel a question, the star asked John not to scratch his groin when he spoke to him.

An incensed John said 'I'm not, I'm scratching my waist' to which Noel retorted ' either way it's unpleasant.'

Rage: After John stood up to ask Noel a question, the star asked John not to scratch his groin when he spoke to him. An incensed John said he wasn't scratching his groin and was not impressed with the comment

Talking later in the Bush Telegraph, John let rip at Noel, after his sensational late arrival into the jungle.

He said: 'I know he was trying to make a joke and be funny but it didn't land well with me and for that moment I'm probably being overly sensitive and it's at this exact time that my husband would say I need a sandwich.

'It's not his fault and I'm an adult, I know that, it was just that moment and some of us are feeling 'arhhh'.'

'Didn't land well with me': Talking later in the Bush Telegraph, John let rip at Noel, after his sensational late arrival into the jungle

This comes after John's husband Scott Gill hinted that the person most likely to rile up John will be the ex Noel's House Party host.

Noel's arrival into the jungle had clearly upset a few of the campmates with Malique saying 'He's lording it about a bit' while Sair added 'I don't like being told what to do.'

Next up came the Gladiators Dingo Dollar Challenge. Noel, Harry, Rita and Malique walked to a smelly swamp with a raised seating area for the regal duo to sit in.

Emperor Noel read a Jungle scroll, 'Gladiators, get ready to make me smile, search the roman bath and find me a tile. Under my command, place it in the frame, complete the mosaic and the dingo dollars you claim.'

Rita and Malique had to get into the swamp and find tiles to place in a frame which then had to be organised into a picture with visual guidance from Emperor Noel and Advisor Harry.

Groove: Harry showed off his fun-loving side as he performed the floss dance during a playful night in camp

Jaunty: The football manager, 71, was given a crash course in the viral dance move, and pulled off the jaunty moves with aplomb

The swamp was cold and vile-smelling much to Rita and Malique's horror but they eventually managed to find all the tiles and complete the challenge.

Emperor Noel and Advisor Harry went off to meet Kiosk Kev at Outbackius Shackius.

Emperor Noel and Advisor Harry met Kiosk Kev at Outbackius Shackius with the question asked: ‘what percentage of working women earn more than their partner?’ with the options being 26% or 6%.

Advisor Harry called camp and they all discussed it and opted for 26% which was the correct answer. The pair then chose the luxury item of grapes and cheese, over ice cream.

54 years strong: The star also gushed about his wife Sandra, and melted the hearts of his campmates

Emperor Noel and Advisor Harry decided to play a prank on camp and pretend they’d got the question wrong, hiding the grapes and cheese en route back into camp.

The camp were all gutted as they believed they’d given the right answer and were desperate for a treat, with Harry putting on an Oscar-worthy performance.

Shortly afterwards Harry came back with the treats and the camp erupted in cheers.

Emily praised Harry as 'the best actor I've ever seen' while Harry expressed a wish to get into acting and become the 'next Robert De Niro',

Emperor Noel, Advisor Harry, Sair and Fleur went to Snake Rock to enjoy Buffalo rib which Sair and Fleur cooked.

Wok it: Enjoying life in the Inner Circle camp with Emperor Noel Edmonds, Sair Khan and Fleur East, the star threw himself into the dance after enjoying a meal of buffalo ribs

Speaking about his partner of 54 years, Harry said: ' Even I'm out I ring her 10 times a day. She's my life. I'm a bit scared, getting a bit older. I love her too much, if anything happened it would just kill me.

'We just get on so well, I only want to be with her. I can never wait to see her.'

Jamie says "you've won the lottery".

Harry then showed off his dance moves as he 'flossed' with Fleur and Sair.

Meanwhile back in Croc Creek everyone else enjoyed a meagre dinner of rice and beans.

Holly and Dec then made their way down to camp where they revealed that both Rita and Malique will face the Drown and Out Bushtucker trial.

Smitten: 'We just get on so well, I only want to be with her. I can never wait to see her'

====== 1362 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: FANS SPOT 'TENSION' BETWEEN ANNE HEGERTY AND NOEL EDMONDS

He finally entered the Australian jungle as the hotly anticipated 11th campmate.

But fans spotted 'tension between new contestant Noel Edmonds and Anne Hegerty on Thursday night's episode, after her very unimpressed reaction to his entrance into the jungle.

Making a dramatic entrance, TV legend Noel, 69, transformed into a Roman emperor as he pitted the campmates against one another in a gladiators inspired task - but not everyone was happy to see him.

Oh dear: Fans spotted 'tension between new contestant Noel Edmonds and Anne Hegerty on Thursday night's episode, after her very unimpressed reaction to his entrance into the jungle

Hiya! Making a dramatic entrance, TV legend Noel, 69, transformed into a Roman emperor as he pitted the campmates against one another in a gladiators inspired task-- but not everyone was happy to see him

Nervously standing on podiums, Dec said to the celebs: 'From this point on you are no longer masters of your own destiny. You are now gladiators and your fate will be decided by a new camp leader. All hail The Emperor.'

As Noel strutted out, the campmates cheered and screamed, but The Chase star Anne, 60, failed to join in and looked extremely unimpressed.

This was quickly picked up on Twitter, with fans speculating the pair had secret beef.

One wrote: 'Anyone else sense the tension between Anne and Noel?' while another added: 'Anne doesn't like Noel does she?'

Another fan commented: 'Anne is fuming Noel is there!' while another tweeted: 'Anne is so unimpressed by Noel.'

Not impressed: As Noel strutted out, the campmates cheered and screamed, but The Chase star Anne, 60, failed to join in and looked extremely unimpressed

Making an entrance: Noel was undeterred as he gave the line-up his own personal thumbs-up

Hmm: This was quickly picked up on Twitter, with fans speculating the pair had secret beef

As Emperor, Noel would be exempt from doing any work in the camp, and the celebrities became known as gladiators who would perform tasks and face trials in order to win food for him and his inner circle.

After two creepy-crawly laden tasks, he picked Sair Khan and Fleur East to be part of his inner circle and enjoy a delicious meal with him and his advisor Harry Redknapp.

The rest of the camp were treated to a meagre meal of rice and beans.

Holly and Dec then made their way down to camp where they revealed that both Rita and Malique will face the Drown and Out Bushtucker trial.

====== 1363 ========

CAMILLA THURLOW AND JAMIE JEWITT LOOK IN LOVE AT CHARITY EVENT DESPITE CLAIMS THEY'RE 'ON THE ROCKS'

They met on Love Island 2017 and last month, they laughed off claims that their relationship is on the rocks.

And Camilla Thurlow and Jamie Jewitt put on a very cosy display as they attended a charity event in the capital.

Humanitarian Camilla, 29, and Jamie, 28, were all smiles a they did their bit at Help for Refugees's Choose Love pop-up shop in London on Thursday.

All smiles: Camilla Thurlow and Jamie Jewitt put on a very loved up display at the Choose Love pop-up shop for Help for Refugees in London on Thursday

The brunette beauty looked stunning as she posed for cameras in a white Choose Love jumper and casual black jeans.

She added some height to her look in a pair of pale pink sandals and matching pink coat.

Camilla's locks were scraped away from her face in a messy bun and she added plenty of glam with her heavy eye makeup and bronzer.

Meanwhile her beau looked suave in a black Choose Love hoody and matching black jeans which he styled with a pair of brown leather shoes.

Choose Love: The pair, known for their humanitarian work, both sported the same jumper in honour of the charity event

Style sensation: Camilla's locks were scraped away from her face in a messy bun and she added plenty of glam with her heavy eye makeup and bronzer

The hunk wore his hair push backed from his face and was seen sporting a lot of bling on his fingers.

The Choose Love pop-up shop takes place in London and New York and provides shoppers the chance to buy items such as lamps, clothes and blankets - which each purchase going towards a similar item for a refugee.

The outing comes as Camilla revealed she is shooting for a new ITVBe series What Camilla Did Next which will document the couple's relationship and Camilla's charity work and air next year.

Fans of the pair will no doubt be keen to scrutinise the couple's interactions following claims their romance is on the rocks amid a series of furious rows.

Reports emerged in October that they were close to splitting after Jamie was seen secretly partying with his Playboy model ex-girlfriend in New York.

Not camera shy: The outing comes as Camilla revealed she is shooting for a new ITVBe series What Camilla Did Next which will document the couple's relationship and charity work

Jamie and Camilla, one of the few couples still together from the 2017 series, have apparently been rowing furiously over his antics and planned 'crisis talks' when he returned to Essex.

Camilla told MailOnline last year: 'We don't feel any pressure, as long as we’re happy. We are just taking things at our own pace. I think the trick is to enjoy things as they are now, and that builds a strong foundation for the future.'

Camilla also said that her family and friends 'really like' Jamie - and that she gives him her 'full support' when it comes to talking about his previous battles with depression - something he spoke about after leaving the series.

====== 1364 ========

LOVE ISLAND STARS 'SET TO EARN £10 AN HOUR FOR HOTLY-ANTICIPATED CHRISTMAS REUNION'

This year's Love Island castmembers have cashed in lucrative endorsement deals ever since leaving Majorca.

But despite their rising success, the stars are reportedly set to earn just £10 an hour for The Christmas Reunion, where 19 islanders will lift the lid on their post-villa lives.

According to The Sun, the line-up, including winners Dani Dyer and Jack Fincham, will film the highly-anticipated show over a two-day schedule.

Shock: This year's Love Island stars are reportedly set to earn just £10 an hour for The Christmas Reunion, where 19 islanders will lift the lid on their post-villa lives (pictured Megan Barton-Hanson and Wes Nelson)

A source told the publication: 'They have been in uproar over being paid so little for two days’ work. It almost isn’t worth hours of awkward conversation with your ex — which for many of the islanders will be the case now.

'A few have even discussed dropping out to avoid any unnecessary aggravation. The low fees have also upset their agents, who are used to dealing with much bigger contracts', they added.

MailOnline has contacted ITV representatives for comment.

Earlier this week, ITV have confirmed that 19 islanders will be back to get a grilling from host Caroline Flack, as they reunite at a festive retreat to spill all on what's been going on since they left the villa many months ago.

They're back: According to The Sun, the line-up, including winners Dani Dyer and Jack Fincham (pictured), will film the highly-anticipated show over a two-day schedule

Tense: 'They have been in uproar over being paid so little for two days’ work. It almost isn’t worth hours of awkward conversation with your ex — which for many of the islanders will be the case now', a source told the publication

And it seems along with the show's successful love stories, such as that of Megan Barton-Hanson, 24, and Wes Nelson, 20, Love Island's ex-couples are in for an awkward reunion as they finally come face-to-face.

All four remaining Love Island couples will be dishing all on how their romance has survived back on home soil, with Megan and Wes, Adam Collard and Zara McDermott and Kaz Crossley - who will appear solo as beau Josh Denzel is filming in the US - will join Dani and Jack.

But viewers will no doubt be more intrigued by the villa's ex-couples who are set to come face-to-face for the Christmas special - especially as their splits have played out publicly with many being plagued by 'cheating' accusations.

Laura Anderson will be reunited with former boyfriend Paul Knops. They split in September, blaming their busy working schedules for driving them apart.

Eek: Love Island's ex-couples (including Georgia Steel and Sam Bird above) are in for an awkward reunion as they'll come face-to-face at the festive retreat

Success: All of Love Island's four remaining couples - including winners Dani and Jack - will be on the show to discuss how their romances have fared on home soil

Flying solo! While Kaz Crossley and Josh Denzel are still together - only Kaz will appear on the special as Josh is filming in the US

At the time, Laura had hit back at accusations their relationship was 'fake' and insisted the romance had been very 'real' for her.

In the weeks that followed their break up, Laura confirmed her romance with Love Island series two winner Max Morley and was later hit by claims she had been 'secretly dating' Max while she was with Paul.

The blonde vehemently denied the claims, with her rep insisting the accusations were 'total nonsense'.

Still going strong: Megan and Wes' relationship has blossomed since their time together in the villa

Ellie Brown and Charlie Brake, meanwhile, announced their split at the beginning of October.

Ellie confessed she was left 'heartbroken' over the failed romance, with her co-star Laura claiming Charlie dumped Ellie by announcing it on social media without her knowledge.

Charlie was linked to string of beauties in the wake of their split and found himself at the centre of claims he had been 'unfaithful' to Ellie, after she was sent a photo of him 'having dinner with another woman'.

Awkward: Laura Anderson will be reunited with former boyfriend Paul Knops - they split in September, blaming their busy working schedules for driving them apart

Moved on: Laura is now dating Love Island series two winner Max Morley

Awkward: Ellie and Charlie split at the beginning of October and Charlie has been linked to a string of beauties ever since

Ellie is rumoured to be dating former TOWIE star Joey Essex, while Charlie has found himself linked to Ferne McCann.

Meanwhile, Georgia Steel and Sam Bird are in for an awkward encounter following their split last month.

Sam revealed that the duo had ended their relationship, after Georgia stayed at her ex-boyfriend's house while dating him. She has insisted that she 'never cheated' on Sam with her ex, but admitted to staying with her former flame.

Following their break up, Sam admitted he was 'devastated' while Georgia has said she is 'happier than ever' being a 'single pringle' - confessing she 'fell out of love' with Sam.

End of the road: Georgia Steel and Sam Bird split last month, with Georgia claiming she is 'happier than ever' since the break up

Still searching for love? Eyal had appeared on Celebs Go Dating following his early Love Island exit and attempted to find romance with an ordinary member of the public

Single ladies: Kendall Rae Knight (L) and Samira Mighty (R) will be back for the reunion show

Other Love Island stars set to appear include Samira Mighty, following the breakdown of her relationship with Frankie Foster, Dr Alex and Alexandra Crane.

Kendall Rae Knight, who was linked to last year's show winner Kem Cetinay, will return, as well as Hayley Hughes, who is now dating DJ Tom Zanetti and Eyal Booker.

Eyal had appeared on Celebs Go Dating following his early Love Island exit and attempted to find love with an ordinary member of the public. He starred alongside Chloe Sims, Olivia Attwood and Alik Alfus.

Caroline Flack will be back at the helm of the show and raising a glass to Love Island's class of 2018, while Iain Stirling will provide a voice over for the special.

ITV are yet to confirm an air date for the festive special.

She's back! Caroline Flack will be back at the helm of the show and raising a glass to Love Island's class of 2018, while Iain Stirling will provide a voice over for the special

====== 1365 ========

NOEL EDMONDS BRANDS JAMES MCVEY 'VAIN' AND CLAIMS ANNE HEGERTY 'TERRIFIES CREEPY CRAWLIES'

He made his debut into I'm A Celebrity...Get Me Out Of Here! and was declared the Emperor of the Jungle on Thursday's edition of the show.

But before his highly-anticipated arrival, Noel Edmonds shared his not-so-nice thoughts on the current contestants of the series.

The 69-year-old TV presenter poked fun at James McVey as he branded the singer 'vain', while claiming Anne Hegarty has 'terrified creepy crawlies' during her appearance.

Fierce: Noel Edmonds shared his not-so-nice thoughts on the current contestants of I'm A Celebrity before his highly-anticipated arrival

In an interview with ITV, the Deal Or No Deal star lifted the lid on his opinions about his fellow campmates.

Starting off with his thoughts on Vamps star James, 24, he said: 'If he could have a luxury item, it would probably be a caravan with a framed photograph of himself on the side.'

Noel also went for Anne, 60, who famously quit a mealworm-laden Bushtucker trail on Tuesday's episode.

Awkward! The 69-year-old TV presenter poked fun at James McVey (L) as he branded the singer 'vain', while claiming Anne Hegarty (R) has 'terrified creepy crawlies' during her appearance

Insisting that the creepy crawlies are afraid of her, the broadcaster added: 'I can absolutely guarantee that Anne Hegerty has terrified every spider, snake and cockroach within a hundred miles of here. I mean I’m terrified and I haven’t met her.'

Noel didn't hold back when it came to sharing his opinion on John Barrowman, stating: 'I think he is the self-styled queen of the jungle and I expect him to sit on the throne and dominate proceedings and we will all be his loyal subjects.'

The comedian also claimed Harry Redknapp 'might not be the greatest with outdoors because I've seen him driving too many range drivers and posh cars.'

'Vain': Starting off with his thoughts on Vamps star James, 24, he said: 'If he could have a luxury item, it would probably be a caravan with a framed photograph of himself on the side'

'I’m terrified and I haven’t met her': Noel also went for Anne, 60, who famously quit a mealworm-laden Bushtucker trail on Tuesday's episode

'Self-styled queen of the jungle': The comedian didn't hold back when it came to sharing his opinion on John Barrowman

Noel shocked viewers as he revealed he's friends with Emily Atack's mother Kate Robbins: 'I know her mum and her mum is a brilliant impersonator.'

He also said that he believes the Inbetweeners star will be 'really entertaining', adding that he 'can't see her cracking at all.'

Meanwhile, Noel arrived to the jungle in style as he was declared to be The Emperor by Holly Willoughby and Declan Donnelly.

He's next: The comedian also claimed Harry Redknapp 'might not be the greatest with outdoors because I've seen him driving too many range drivers and posh cars'

Industry pals: Noel shocked viewers as he revealed he's friends with Emily Atack's mother Kate Robbins (pictured on Monday): 'I know her mum and her mum is a brilliant impersonator.'

Fan: He said he believes the Inbetweeners star will be 'really entertaining', adding that he 'can't see her cracking at all'

Explaining what this meant for the celebrities, host Dec said: 'From this point on you are no longer masters of your own destiny. You are now gladiators and your fate will be decided by a new camp leader. All hail The Emperor.'

Seeing the funny side of the situation as the campmates squealed with delight while rain fell down, Noel exclaimed 'Hail' before jokingly adding 'And rain. And some sunny periods later!'

Asked how he was feeling he replied 'wonderful. And moist!'

As Emperor, Noel would be exempt from doing any work in the camp, and the celebrities became known as gladiators who would perform tasks and face trials in order to win food for him and his inner circle.

====== 1366 ========

PIXIE LOTT AND MILLIE MACKINTOSH STUN AT STAR-STUDDED RANGE ROVER EVENT

She's been quite the busy bee as she continues to prepare for her upcoming nuptials to long-term partner Oliver Cheshire.

But Pixie Lott enjoyed some time off from wedding planning as she attended the World Premiere of the new Range Rover Evoque at London's Old Truman Brewery on Thursday evening, alongside Millie Mackintosh.

The British singer, 27, displayed her sartorial flair as she slipped her slender physique into a chic velvet blouse, which featured a deeply plunging neckline.

Turning heads: Pixie Lott (L) enjoyed some time off from wedding planning as she attended the World Premiere of the new Range Rover Evoque at London's Old Truman Brewery on Thursday evening, alongside Millie Mackintosh (R)

Upping the style ante, the All About Tonight hitmaker boosted her frame in a pair of strappy silver heels, and toted a quilted clutch bag.

Pixie channeled her inner pin-up girl as she styled her bob into loose curls, and intensified her striking features with light strokes of brown eyeshadow, blusher and pink lipgloss.

Former Made In Chelsea star Millie, 29, put her best fashion foot forward as she sported a camel coat, cream midi skirt and ribbed crop tee.

Wow-factor! The British singer, 27, displayed her sartorial flair as she slipped her slender physique into a chic velvet blouse, which featured a deeply plunging neckline

Style savvy: Upping the style ante, the All About Tonight hitmaker boosted her frame in a pair of strappy silver heels, and toted a quilted clutch bag. She was joined by handsome fiance Oliver Cheshire

Set to wed: After eight years of dating, Oliver, 30, finally popped the question during a romantic date with the star at St Paul's Cathedral in central London in November 2016

Adding height to her frame, the TV personality rocked a pair of suede pointed heels, and carried her possessions in a white chain strap bag.

The fashion designer opted for her signature neutral-toned make-up look to highlight her naturally pretty features, and wore her blonde locks in a straight style.

Former Saturdays singer Mollie King showcased her chic sense of style as she rocked up to the event in a suede zip-up mini dress, complete with quirky burgundy heels.

Demure: Former Made In Chelsea star Millie, 29, put her best fashion foot forward as she sported a camel coat, cream midi skirt and ribbed crop tee

Striking: Adding height to her frame, the TV personality rocked a pair of suede pointed heels, and carried her possessions in a white chain strap bag

All eyes on her: The fashion designer opted for her signature neutral-toned make-up look to highlight her naturally pretty features, and wore her blonde locks in a straight style

Trendy: Former Saturdays singer Mollie King showcased her chic sense of style as she rocked up to the event in a suede zip-up mini dress, complete with quirky burgundy heels

Less is more: The 31-year-old BBC presenter ensured focus remained on her outfit as she kept accessories to a minimum, and framed her stunning visage with loose curls

The 31-year-old BBC presenter ensured focus remained on her outfit as she kept accessories to a minimum, and framed her stunning visage with loose curls.

Range Rover has unveiled its latest ‘green’ compact luxury 4X4 with ‘X-Ray vision’ that enable drivers to ‘see’ through the bonnet to view what lies on beneath on the road below and ‘eyes in the back of its head’ to show what’s coming up behind.

The new second-generation British-built Evoque off-roader is built with electrification and hybrid power in mind, and has a non-leather cloth option designed for vegetarians and vegans and made from recycled plastic bottles.

Loved-up: Guy Ritchie and wife Jacqui Ainsley enjoyed a date night as the filmmaker, 50, wrapped his arm around the model, 36, on their night out

Stunning pair: Jacqui wowed in a pink turtleneck jumper and wide-leg trousers as Guy looked dapper in a sharp blazer

Star-studded: Bodyguard star Richard Madden (L) put on a typically stylish display as Luke Evans (R) donned a grey checked blazer

Out and about: The 32-year-old hunk recently hit headlines as one of the top contenders to succeed Daniel Craig as the next James Bond

Sophisticated: Clash of the Titans actor Luke, 39, exhibited his flair for fashion as he teamed his jacket with a striped scarf and cream chinos

Looking good: Kingsman: Secret Service star Taron Egerton looked handsome in double denim in a faded denim jacket and navy blue jeans, which he teamed up with a chequered shirt and brown boots

Significantly, it features unique ‘ground view’ technology that makes its bonnet ‘invisible’ to the driver so he or she has a view of any rough or extreme terrain - or high city centre kerbs - that are lurking underneath or just ahead, but normally out of sight.

The firm said its ClearSight Ground View technology marks ‘a world first’ for the compact luxury 4X4 which is powered by a range of mild-hybrid petrol and diesel engines, with a plug in hybrid to follow next year and the potential for a fully electric version.

Meanwhile, Pixie is set to marry male model and long-term partner Oliver, 30. After eight years of dating, Oliver finally popped the question during a romantic date with the star at St Paul's Cathedral in central London in November 2016.

Style mavens: Edith Bowman (L), Niomi Smart (centre) and Jessica De Gouw (R) all commanded attention as they hit the red carpet

Cute: Oliver Jackson-Cohen and Jessica De Gouw looked every inch the power couple as they arrived to the event arm-in-arm

Effortlessly cool: Pietro Boselli (L) nailed edgy chic in a biker jacket and skinny jeans, while MIC star Jamie Laing (R) sported a khaki tee, bomber jacket and suede boots

Eccentric: Model Adwoa Aboah maintained her signature style sense in a orange mini dress, embellished with sequin details across the ensemble's bodice

The singer had announced their exciting news on Instagram, sharing a snap of the pair kissing at Madison Restaurant & Bar as the sun set, with glasses of bubbly in hand and Pixie showing off her engagement ring.

Prior to their engagement, Pixie gushed about her relationship with the handsome model as she revealed the elements that made their romance work.

'I think every relationship is different and there are no real rules,' she told The Sun in March of this year.

Beaming: Rapper Example, real name Elliot John Gleave, appeared in high spirits as he took the glitzy event

Glitzy: Ben Barnes (L) and Ricky Wilson (R) were among the star-studded line-up at the event

In attendance: Chris Burt-Allan (L), Larry King (centre) and David Gandy (R) all hit the starry red carpet

Great spirits: Massimo Frascella and Amy Frascella (L) put on beaming smiles as they joined Simon Aboud and Bryn Williams (R) at the event

Date night: Stephen Graham and Hannah Walters looked smitten as they arrived to the launch arm-in-arm

'Some of my friends have dated loads of people and others are still with the first person they started going out with, a bit like me. If it feels right, you just go with it.'

Sharing details into her upcoming nuptials, the blonde recently revealed she has appointed 18 of her closest friends as bridesmaids on Loose Women.

Although her request might seem unconventional, the Mama Do hitmaker insisted she wants a 'traditional' wedding as she will walk down the aisle in a church.

Chic: Bake Off runner-up Ruby Bhogal dazzled in a plunging bodysuit, distressed jeans and a grey longline blazer

From all angles: Millie commanded attention as she posed for the cameras at the event

Newlyweds: The TV star was joined by husband Hugo Taylor, who looked handsome in a quirky scarf and wool coat

Stunner: Pixie channeled her inner pin-up girl as she styled her bob into loose curls, and intensified her striking features with light strokes of brown eyeshadow, blusher and pink lipgloss

Attention-grabbing: Mollie and Pixie turned heads as they smouldered at the cameras

In good company: The blonde was accompanied by her fiance, actor Richard and model Jacey Elthalion (L) at the bash

High spirits: Pixie and Richard appeared to chat up a storm as they mingled during their time at the starry event

The singer shocked panelists Nadia Sawalha, Saira Khan, Andrea McLean and Kaye Adams as she justified her grand feature: 'You only do it once, I want all my closest friends along the journey... the hen dos are a massive part of it.'

The Nasty star added: 'I'm not really a bridezilla, I guess I’m quite traditional as I'm going to get married in a church.'

Pixie went on to poke fun at the traditional 80s wedding dress, as she laughed: 'I don't know if I would go for the 80s dress, I'm going to have a look at the dress when I go home, but I didn't have that in mind!'

Doting parents: Guy and Jacqui, who have been married since 2015, share three children - Rafael, seven, Rivka, five, and Levi, four

Yummy mummy: The blonde showcased her model prowess as she struck a series of poses for the cameras

Cosy: Example and Stephen grinned from ear-to-ear as they engaged in a conversation at the event

Model of the moment: Adwoa was in good company as she joined Ashley Wiliams, who designed her striking dress

Edgy: Taron completed his casual ensemble with a blue chequered shirt, which was frayed at the bottom for a punk chic flair

Wow: Range Rover has unveiled its latest ‘green’ compact luxury 4X4 with ‘X-Ray vision’ that enable drivers to ‘see’ through the bonnet to view what lies on beneath on the road below and ‘eyes in the back of its head’ to show what’s coming up behind

Impressive: The new second-generation British-built Evoque off-roader is built with electrification and hybrid power in mind, and has a non-leather cloth option designed for vegetarians and vegans and made from recycled plastic bottles

====== 1367 ========

WAYNE AND COLEEN ROONEY TREAT THEIR SONS TO A TRIP TO DISNEYLAND FOR THANKSGIVING

They've been adjusting to the Stateside life ever since the footballer kicked off his new job with Washington's DC United.

And Wayne and Coleen Rooney have been soaking up the perks of their move as they treated their sons to a trip to Disneyland in Anaheim, California, for Thanksgiving on Thursday.

The couple beamed with delight as they enjoyed breakfast with their four sons Kai, nine, Klay, five, Kit, two and nine-month-old Cass, alongside Disney characters Goofy, Mickey and Minnie Mouse.

Family first: Wayne and Coleen Rooney have been soaking up the perks of their move as they treated their sons to a trip to Disneyland in Anaheim, California, for Thanksgiving on Thursday

Celebrating the national holiday, the former Manchester United star, 33, captioned the image: ‪Happy #Thanksgiving to all my American followers. Our first one in America! #Disneyland‬.'

Wayne opted for comfort in a grey tracksuit by Nike, while WAG Coleen, 32, mixed casual chic with glamour as she donned skinny jeans and a red tee by Balenciaga.

Their fun-filled trip comes after the couple revealed their Christmas card for 2018 which sees their four sons posing in matching pyjamas as they grin for the camera.

Sweet: The couple beamed with delight as they enjoyed breakfast with their four sons Kai, nine, Klay, five, Kit, two and nine-month-old Cass, alongside Disney characters Goofy, Mickey and Minnie Mouse

Festive: Their fun-filled trip comes after the couple revealed their Christmas card for 2018 which sees their four sons posing in matching pyjamas as they grin for the camera

Shot by Liverpool-based photographer Grace Kellie, one photo sees the four boys cosying up in grey and red striped pjs in front of a Christmasy window with Santa's sleigh flying past outside.

Rooney's mini-mes flash toothy grins for the camera with little Cass even posing like a pro.

A second shot shows the brothers in another festive scene, this time with Kit riding a rocking horse while his brothers pose around him in their Rudolf pjs.

Brothers: Rooney's mini-mes flash toothy grins for the camera with little Cass even posing like a pro with his older brothers

The family shot the photos during a trip back to the UK last week to support Wayne as he reunited with the England squad for his final cap against the USA.

The former Three Lions captain was seen beaming on Thursday night as he carried his youngest son onto the pitch, after coming out of retirement against the USA on for an emotional send-off on his 120th appearance.

The former Everton star announced his international retirement 15 months ago.

Home turf: The family, who have relocated to Washington DC, were back in the UK last week to support Wayne as he reunited with the England squad for his final cap against the USA

Wayne signed a three-and-a-half-year deal with with D.C. United in June and Coleen is said to be loving her new life across the Atlantic.

A source recently told The Mirror: 'Coleen looks to be loving life in the States. Back at home she gets recognised everywhere, but here she goes about her business without being stopped. It’s like she has a normal life back.'

Wayne announced that he had signed with US team D.C. United in the summer, with the footballer reportedly earning a staggering £300,000-a-week from the move.

Home sweet home: Wayne signed a three-and-a-half-year deal with with D.C. United in June. Coleen is said to be loving her new life across the Atlantic

Ahead of the move, she confirmed on her social media that they had been 'house hunting' and 'viewing schools' in Washington, as she admitted she was 'looking forward' to the big relocation.

Coleen previously insisted it was an easy decision to uproot her life in Manchester to move overseas, claiming there was 'no doubt' that she would go with Wayne.

Ahead of the move, she told The Mirror: 'I don't think the move will affect us as a family – as long as you are all together, we can take on anything. When Wayne signed, there was no doubt in my mind that we wouldn't go...

'We are a family. Especially for the kids. You want your mum and dad when you are growing up – like my mum and dad were there for me. We have always been a close unit – I want that for my kids as well.'

====== 1368 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: NICK KNOWLES STRIPS DOWN TO A TINY PAIR OF RED BUDGIE SMUGGLERS

The I'm A Celebrity! outdoor shower has been dominated by bikini-clad beauties like Emily Atack and Fleur East this year.

But Nick Knowles ensured he stole some of the limelight, as he stripped down to a pair of tiny red budgie smugglers under the water feature.

The 56-year-old looked worlds away from his DIY SOS handyman days as he cooled off in the shower with The Vamps guitarist James McVey.

Making a splash: Nick Knowles stripped down to a pair of tiny red budgie smugglers under the I'm A Celebrity! outdoor shower

Nick, whose cover of Make You Feel My Love has topped the charts this week, seemed to be in good spirits as he washed himself.

When Nick was at the top of the charts on Wednesday, Cheryl was perched at number 11 on iTunes.

P!nk sat at number two, while Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper's Shallow dropped down to position four after weeks of success.

And while Nick has been enjoying musical success outside of the jungle, he's also been coming up trumps in the I'm A Celebrity challenges.

Turning heads: The 56-year-old looked worlds away from his DIY SOS handyman days as he cooled off in the shower with The Vamps guitarist James McVey

Loving life: Nick, whose cover of Make You Feel My Love has topped the charts this week, seemed to be in good spirits as he washed himself

In Thursday's episode, Nick and Emily Atack met up with Kiosk Kev at the Outback Shack for the Dingo Dollar Challenge-Class of 18.

They were greeted by a Jungle laminate which had the instructions for the DDC challenge.

Emily read out the laminate '10 celebrities are the Jungle cast and 10 secrets that are hidden in their past. Match the secrets to the photo on the wall and to the shack you'll go with the Dingo Dollar haul.'

Daring to bare: Musician James donned something a tad more covered up for his outdoor shower moment

Emily and Nick had to open school lockers that contained celebrity secrets, they then had to match those secrets to the relevant celebrity in camp by placing the secrets underneath a school photo of them.

Some of the secrets included being an extra in a Robin Hood movie, applying for BGT, biting people as a child (later revealed to be Emily) and wanting to be a WWE wrestler.

Nick revealed as a 6th former he had climbed into the school loft and dyed the entire water system blue.

Challenge: In Thursday's episode, Nick and Emily Atack met up with Kiosk Kev at the Outback Shack for the Dingo Dollar Challenge-Class of 18

Quiz: Emily and Nick had to open school lockers that contained celebrity secrets, they then had to match those secrets to the relevant celebrity in camp by placing the secrets underneath a school photo of them

Emily and Nick had fun matching all the secrets correctly which meant another visit to Kiosk Kev at the Outback Shack.

The question of the day was what percentage of adults felt that their school days were the best days of their lives – (a) 50% or (b) 40%.

Up for grabs was jam roly poly or sherbet dip and they plumped for jam roly poly.Up for grabs was jam roly poly or sherbet dip and they plumped for jam roly poly.

====== 1369 ========

MOLLIE KING REVEALS HER TONED LEGS IN SUEDE MINI DRESS

Their on-off romance, which began in 2012, ended for the final time in early 2016.

And exes Mollie King and David Gandy reunited as they both attended the world premiere of the new Range Rover Evoque at The Old Truman Brewery,London on Thursday, as he prepares for the imminent birth of his first child.

Saturdays singer Mollie, 31, cracked a radiant smile despite the potentially awkward run-in as she oozed sartorial flair in a camel coloured suede mini dress.

Reunion: Exes Mollie King and David Gandy reunited as they both attended the s world premiere of the new Range Rover Evoque at The Old Truman Brewery, London on Thursday, as he prepares for the imminent birth of his first child

Showcasing her lithe frame, the dress cut high on the leg, revealing the star's enviable pins.

She boosted her height with plum stilettos.

The All Fired Up hitmaker's blonde tresses were styled in loose waves while her pretty features were enhanced with feline flicks of liner and a rose lipstick.

Expectant father to be David, 38, looked typically dapper in a denim shirt and navy suit, as he revealed exclusively to MailOnline that he was ready to leave ‘at a moment’s notice' should his girlfriend Stephanie Mendoros go into labour.

Chic: Saturdays singer Mollie, 31, cracked a radiant smile despite the potentially awkward run-in as she oozed sartorial flair in a camel coloured suede mini dress

Radiant:The All Fired Up hitmaker's blonde tresses were styled in loose waves while her pretty features were enhanced with feline flicks of liner and a rose lipstick

Asked how soon the birth of his first child by his lawyer girlfriend was likely to be, he looked down at his smartphone and said:’ Any time now now. I’m on standby.’

When asked by friends if it was uncomfortable that ex Mollie was at the same event, ever diplomatic David said it was not-and that all parties were relaxed about his impending joy.

Mollie and David first struck up a romance in April 2011 before they called it quits 10 months later in 2012.

Shortly after the break-up, the Dolce and Gabbana hunk admitted his obsession with perfection made being in a relationship challenging.

Expectant dad: David, 38, looked typically dapper in a denim shirt and navy suit, as he revealed exclusively to MailOnline that he was ready to leave ‘at a moment’s notice' should his girlfriend Stephanie Mendoros go into labour.

In an interview with Men's Health magazine, David said: 'My perfectionism can make it difficult. I know my ex-girlfriend struggled. Things have to be perfect - everything in the house, every car I buy.

'That’s incredibly hard to live with if you don’t understand it. I can get on with my own life, my own “perfections”, without needing to explain that weirdness to someone else.’

In autumn 2014, the stars rekindled their romance but split again in January 2016 allegedly due to a series of rows and after disagreeing whether to start a family.

Dapper: When asked by friends if it was uncomfortable that ex Mollie was at the same event, ever diplomatic David said it was not-and that all parties were relaxed about his impending joy (pictured with Jason Fox)

Chic: Mollie cut an equally stylish figure when she stepped out in London on Friday afternoon

Fashionista: Mollie sported minimal make-up and wore an on-trend camel baker boy hat atop her blonde locks

The country's highest paid model confirmed he is having a baby with his criminal lawyer girlfriend of two years earlier this year.

In June, David told for the first time of his joy at his impending fatherhood – and joked: 'I think we're going to need a bigger car!'

Speaking exclusively to MailOnline, Gandy said: 'We're expecting our first in November. We're both thrilled. Absolutely delighted.

'It's our first. It's all very new to us. We're taking every day and week as it comes. It should be fun.

Mollie and David first struck up a romance in April 2011 before they called it quits 10 months later in 2012. They then rekindled their romance in 2014 before finally splitting in 2016 (pictured in 2015)

====== 1370 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: HARRY REDKNAPP DELIGHTS VIEWERS AS HE PERFORMS THE FLOSS DANCE

He has gained legions of fans with his wit and quirky antics in the jungle.

And Harry Redknapp showed off his fun-loving side as he performed the floss dance during a playful night in camp on Thursday's I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!

The football manager, 71, was given a crash course in the viral dance move, and pulled off the jaunty moves with aplomb.

Scroll down for video

Groove: Harry Redknapp showed off his fun-loving side as he performed the floss dance during a playful night in camp on Thursday's I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!

54 years strong: The star also gushed about his wife Sandra, and melted the hearts of his campmates

Enjoying life in the Inner Circle camp with Emperor Noel Edmonds, Sair Khan and Fleur East, the star threw himself into the dance after enjoying a meal of buffalo ribs

And fans couldn't get enough of the fan favourite's dancing with one writing: 'Harry flossing is the best thing I've seen all week' while another added 'TV gold'.

Earlier Harry regaled the camp with a tale about his favourite football manager, Manchester United legend Alex Ferguson.

He said: 'Every manager after every game came in your office. Fergie was always great. He had a great bottle of wine. He would get something special in when you went there

Jaunty: The football manager, 71, was given a crash course in the viral dance move, and pulled off the jaunty moves with aplomb

Wok it: Enjoying life in the Inner Circle camp with Emperor Noel Edmonds, Sair Khan and Fleur East, the star threw himself into the dance after enjoying a meal of buffalo ribs

Yes: And fans couldn't get enough of the fan favourite's dancing with one writing: 'Harry flossing is the best thing I've seen all week' while another added 'TV gold'

'I have been in his office at 2:45 for a 3pm kick-off. The teams would go out and he would have the racing on!

'I would sit there and he said I have got one in the 2:45. I said 'Alex I have got to go'.

'But he wasn't bothered because he would go and win and had such a good team.'

The star also gushed about his wife Sandra, and melted the hearts of his campmates.

Speaking about his partner of 54 years, Harry said: ' Even I'm out I ring her 10 times a day. She's my life. I'm a bit scared, getting a bit older. I love her too much, if anything happened it would just kill me.

True love: Speaking about his partner of 54 years, Harry said: ' Even I'm out I ring her 10 times a day. She's my life. I'm a bit scared, getting a bit older. I love her too much, if anything happened it would just kill me

'We just get on so well, I only want to be with her. I can never wait to see her.'

'Jamie (his son) says 'you've won the lottery'.

Thursday's episode saw the arrival of Noel Edmonds, who transformed into a Roman emperor to put the campmates to work in a gladiators task.

Explaining what this meant for the celebrities, Dec said: 'From this point on you are no longer masters of your own destiny. You are now gladiators and your fate will be decided by a new camp leader. All hail The Emperor.'

As Emperor, Noel would be exempt from doing any work in the camp, and the celebrities became known as gladiators who would perform tasks and face trials in order to win food for him and his inner circle.

Holly and Dec then made their way down to camp where they revealed that both Rita and Malique will face the Drown and Out Bushtucker trial.

====== 1371 ========

NICOLA ROBERTS WOWS IN SLEEK TWO PIECE WHILE VANESSA WHITE DAZZLES

They found fame in two of the UK’s hottest girl bands.

Yet Nicola Roberts and Vanessa White turned their attentions from singing to their sartorial prowess on Thursday evening as they attended a dinner hosted by fashion giant Lindex in London.

The flame-haired Girls Aloud stunner looked every inch the star in a chic black velvet suit, which made the most of her lithe frame, while The Saturdays songstress injected festive glamour with a bang-on-trend sequin midi.

Elegant: Nicola Roberts and Vanessa White turned their attentions from singing to their sartorial prowess on Thursday evening as they attended a dinner hosted by fashion giant Lindex in London

Nicola, who soared to fame on Popstars! The Rivals in 2002, nailed the season’s trends as she combined supple velvet with the elegant tailoring of her chic suit.

As ever, her tumbling masses of red hair made the focal point of her look as she allowed her locks to fall loose over her shoulders with her eyelash tickling fringe sitting in a perfect frame of her face.

On Instagram, the stunner confessed to her 266,000 followers that she had her tresses layered to create the illusion of a bob at the front yet could not bring herself to chop off the rest.

Vanessa meanwhile ensured she went all out in dazzling sparkles complete with a delicate knitted top with a subtle lurex thread paired with an incredibly glamorous sequinned midi skirt.

Chic: The flame-haired Girls Aloud stunner looked every inch the star in a chic black velvet suit, which made the most of her lithe frame, while The Saturdays songstress injected festive glamour with a bang-on-trend sequin midi

Glitter girl: Vanessa meanwhile ensured she went all out in dazzling sparkles complete with a delicate knitted top with a subtle lurex thread paired with an incredibly glamorous sequinned midi skirt

Time off: A night on the town is no doubt welcome for Nicola, who has been hard at work, aiding former bandmate Cheryl's return to music by writing her new song, Love Made Me Do It

On working with Lindex, Vanessa said: 'I’ve been a fan of Lindex for some time now. I’ve loved the collections over the past few years and I love what the brand stands for, especially in terms of empowering women – and not just one type of woman!..

So I was so happy to be able to work with Lindex and host the dinner. The Christmas and Winter Party collections feature so many must-haves for the festive season and beyond and I’ve been given a sneak peak of SS19 which is equally amazing – and I already have my eye on a few pieces I need to add to my wardrobe!'

A night on the town is no doubt welcome for Nicola, who has been hard at work, aiding former bandmate Cheryl's return to music by writing her new song, Love Made Me Do It.

She has also been helping her BFF pen her comeback album, the first music the Girls Aloud juggernaut will have released in four years.

The pair, who first met as teenager on Popstars! The Rivals in 2002 have remained close friends.

Gone dotty! Felicity Hayward looked sensational in a polka dot ensemble which she gave a Fifties touch with her bleached blonde hair

Blonde bombshell: As ever, Felicity was oozing retro glam with a slick of red li

Speaking on Jessie Ware's Table Manners podcast this week, Cheryl gushed about the pair's close relationship in and out of the studio.

'We had the best time,' Cheryl said of the writing process. 'It was so natural and organic and real because we've got a 16-year friendship.'

'She knows me inside out, she can speak for me sometimes. Her melodies are always first take wonders. It's just an organic relationship. '

====== 1372 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: FANS GO WILD OVER DECLAN DONNELLY'S 'NIPPLES' IN VERY UNFORTUNATELY DESIGNED SHIRT

He is the jungle veteran who has been joined by Holly Willoughby for this year's reality spectacular.

But instead of their sparkling banter, all eyes were on Declan Donnelly's unfortunately designed shirt during Thursday's I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!

Fans went wild on social media over Dec's 'nipples' as he donned a navy shirt with two cheekily placed buttons over the chest area.

Dec's nips: All eyes were on Declan Donnelly's unfortunately designed shirt during Thursday's I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!

#Decsnips began trending on Twitter as the pair did the opening link from the bridge, with fans soon flocking to social media.

One wrote: 'Can't unsee #decsnips' while another added 'hilarious #decsnips'

Another added: 'I can't take my eyes off them' while another wrote: '

Blown away by the response online, a blushing Holly squealed: 'It’s a little nipply!' as Dec played up to the camera by tweaking the buttons.

Wow: Fans went wild on social media over Dec's 'nipples' as he donned a navy shirt with two cheekily placed buttons over the chest area

LOL: #Decsnips began trending on Twitter as the pair did the opening link from the bridge, with fans soon flocking to social media

Funny: Even Holly, 37, weighed in on the Twitter trend, writing 'can't unsee #decsnips'

Even Holly, 37, weighed in on the Twitter trend, writing 'can't unsee #decsnips'

Thursday's episode saw the arrival of Noel Edmonds, who transformed into a Roman emperor to put the campmates to work in a gladiators task.

Explaining what this meant for the celebrities, Dec said: 'From this point on you are no longer masters of your own destiny. You are now gladiators and your fate will be decided by a new camp leader. All hail The Emperor.'

As Emperor, Noel would be exempt from doing any work in the camp, and the celebrities became known as gladiators who would perform tasks and face trials in order to win food for him and his inner circle.

Holly and Dec then made their way down to camp where they revealed that both Rita and Malique will face the Drown and Out Bushtucker trial.

Interesting: Blown away by the response online, a blushing Holly squealed: 'It’s a little nipply!' as Dec played up to the camera by tweaking the buttons

Glee: Holly couldn't contain her laughter during the show

====== 1373 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: ANNE HEGERTY'S SECRET 'HUSBAND' JAKE HESTER 'EXPOSED'

During Wednesday night's I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here! she made an unexpected revelation.

Anne Hegerty, 60, admitted she had stopped looking at her Wikipedia page, because it claims that she has been married to someone called Jake Hester since 2015 - but she has 'no idea' who the mystery man is.

Viewers immediately launched a search to find the Anne's 'secret husband,' which led to someone claiming to be Jake Hester reaching out on Twitter with a photoshopped snap of the pair.

No way! During Wednesday night's instalment of I'm A Celeb, Anne Hegerty admitted that she'd stopped looking at her Wikipedia page, because it claims that she is married to someone called Jake Hester - but she has 'no idea' who the mystery man is

The doctored photograph shows Anne clad in extravagant red gown and holding up a hand fan, with her 'secret husband' smiling next to her with his hand lovingly placed on her shoulder.

The I'm A Celeb star's fellow The Chase colleague Mark Labbett responded to the photo, tweeting: 'Well played, sir! Are you Harvey the Rabbit, Maris Crane or Keyser Soze?'

Jake Hester jokingly responded: 'I'm whatever the Governess wants me to be! Have to meet up soon again for a double date, when my darling is out the Jungle.'

Another Twitter account claiming to be Anne's husband scathingly tweeted: 'Absolutely fuming, been married to Anne for almost 7 years now, can't believe she could lie about me like this, fuming.'

Here he is? Viewers immediately launched a search for Anne's 'secret husband,' with someone claiming to be Jake Hester reaching out on Twitter, with a photoshopped snap of the pair

Double dater: The I'm A Celeb star's fellow The Chase colleague Mark Labbett responded to the photo, with Jake Hester jokingly suggesting another 'double date'

Fuming: Another Twitter account claiming to be Anne's husband scathingly tweeted: 'Absolutely fuming, been married to Anne for almost 7 years now, can't believe she could lie about me like this, fuming'

Breaking: Someone else purporting to be the mystery man announced: 'BREAKING: 7 years of marriage thrown down the drain. Knew the jungle wasn’t a good idea'

Someone else purporting to be the mystery man announced: 'BREAKING: 7 years of marriage thrown down the drain. Knew the jungle wasn’t a good idea. We were going through a rough patch hope we can sort it when she’s back. MISS YOU ANNE XXX #imaceleb2018.'

When Anne revealed the hilarious Wikipedia revelation, her celebrity campmates burst out laughing in disbelief and Fleur East suggested that 'Jake Hester' might come and meet Anne on the bridge.

Later, show hosts Declan Donnelly and Holly Willoughby discussed Anne's 'secret husband,' with Holly asking: 'Who on earth is Jake Hester? It sounds like a made up name!'

Could it be? When Anne revealed the hilarious Wikipedia revelation, her celebrity campmates burst out laughing and East suggested that 'Jake Hester' might meet Anne on the bridge

Loving it: Later, show hosts Declan McPartlin and Holly Willoughby discussed Anne's 'secret husband' and jokingly hinted that it could in fact be Dec who is Anne's mystery man

Manhunt: I'm A Celebrity fans immediate launched a manhunt following Anne's revelation, determined to identify of the mystery man

Dec then quipped: 'Anne Hegerty is married to Jake Hester? As if.'

But as the pair sat down to watch the Dingo Dollar challenge, it was jokingly hinted that it could in fact be Dec who is Anne's mystery man.

Turning their director chairs around, Holly's had her name printed on the back, while Dec's chair revealed Jake Hester's name.

I'm A Celebrity fans immediate launched a manhunt following Anne's revelation, determined to find out the identity of the mystery man.

The chase is on: Viewers of the show took to Twitter in droves in an attempt to find Jake Hester

One viewer asserted: 'Find Jake Hester at all costs,' while another added: 'Will the real Jake Hester please stand up #Imaceleb.'

Someone else tweeted: 'Let's band together and find Jake Hester #ImACeleb,' with another viewer writing: '...and the nationwide search for "Jake Hester" begins. #ImACeleb.'

'Jake Hester needs to make himself known and #Imaceleb bosses need to fly him out to Australia to meet her at the end of the bridge,' suggested someone else.

I'm A Celebrity Get Me Out of Here continues everyday at 9pm on ITV.

====== 1374 ========

VICKY PATTISON PUT ON A BRAVE FACE IN LONDON AFTER IT WAS REVEALED THAT SHE WAS FILMING WEDDING SHOW

Vicky Pattison was left heartbroken earlier this month when her fiancé John Noble was caught partying with a bevy of beauties during a lads' trip to Dubai.

But the reality star, 31, put on a brave face as she stepped out in London to celebrate the festive season on Thursday evening.

The beauty was dressed to impress as she showcased her svelte legs in a pair of sleek black trousers.

Strong: Vicky Pattison put on a brave face as she stepped out in London on Thursday... after it was revealed that she and fiancé John Noble started filming a reality wedding special

Vicky added a pop of colour to her ensemble with a red, white and black printed top, while she boosted her height in red pointed heels.

She styled her brunette locks into sleek waves and accentuated her features with a glamorous palette of make-up.

Looking good: The beauty was dressed to impress as she showcased her svelte legs in a pair of sleek black trousers which she paired with red stiletto heels

Glamorous: Vicky styled her brunette locks into sleek waves

Her outing comes after it was exclusively revealed to MailOnline that Vicky and John had kicked off filming a special bridal programme ahead of their nuptials and before John's betrayal.

After scooping the show to follow their journey to the big day, the couple had begun filming just two days before John embarked of his fateful holiday - however insiders have now revealed brave Vicky will continue filming to show 'her next chapter'.

Vicky and John were first pictured together in the X Factor audience in October 2016, having already dated 10 years previously, when she was just 20.

Heartache: Vicky was left heartbroken earlier this month when her fiancé John Noble was caught partying with a bevy of beauties during a lads' trip to Dubai

After confirming their romance in November 2016, they went on to announce their engagement in July last year, when Vicky proudly flaunted her 3.6-carat marquise-cut diamond engagement ring before easing herself into wedding planning.

Despite the fairy-tale aspects of their romance, sadly things came crashing down earlier this month when John was exposed for his love rat ways when a number of images and videos came to light showing her beau mingling with other revellers.

To add to her heartache, the betrayal will see the end of the wedding lead-up show however it has been revealed she will tackle the programme solo.

Moving on: She pulled a sultry pose on Instagram as she moved on from her drama

Lights, camera, action: It has now been exclusively revealed to MailOnline that the couple had kicked off filming a special bridal programme ahead of their nuptials and before John's betrayal (pictured on Wednesday with camera crews in tow)

Shock: John was pictiured with host of images following a trip to Dubai - which left Vicky heartbroken

Insiders told MailOnline: 'Vicky and John had a wedding special confirmed and started filming just a few days before John went on the boys' trip to Dubai.

'Obviously it was devastating for Vicky to have all this come out just after they started shooting. Vicky has decided to carry on filming with the crew. She's a professional and didn't want to let anyone down.

'It goes without saying it won't be a wedding show, but will follow Vicky on the next chapter as she bounces back from John's betrayal. She was excited to be starting wedding planning and looking at venues, but life has changed now.'

Loved-up: After confirming their romance in November 2016, they went on to announce their engagement in July last year, when Vicky proudly flaunted her 3.6-carat marquise-cut diamond engagement ring before easing herself into wedding planning

Shocking: Vicky and John frequently enjoyed public displays of affection, meaning their woes will be further shocking to fans (picture at Wimbledon in July last year)

Vicky and John's ill-fated romance Around 2008: Vicky and John first enjoyed a brief romance October 2016: The couple were spotted together at The X Factor sparking romance rumours November 2016: After joining Vicky in Australia during her I'm A Celeb commitments, the couple confirmed their romance July 2017: The couple confirmed their romance with a dramatic magazine spread where Vicky flashed her 3.6-carat marquise-cut engagement ring January 2018: Vicky revealed she had postponed their wedding 'by a year or two' as she 'wasn't ready to be a wife' despite having planned a lavish £175,000 ceremony this summer November 2018: Images surfaced of John getting close to a bevy of women during a trip to Dubai, throwing the furture of their romance into question

Vicky also scooped a number of other wedding-themed projects.

Prior to John's Dubai trip, Vicky had launched her inaugural bridal column with The Sun, while she also created an Instagram page to follow her body transformation ahead of the big day.

The page, Vicky's Bridal Bod has not been used since November 8, just two days before the imagery of John partying with other women was unearthed.

Additionally, Vicky appeared on TLC's Say Yes To The Dress last year in a bid to find her perfect gown for the big day that never was.

John's betrayal was not the first time the couple's romance was dragged to a halt as in January Vicky confessed she has postponed her wedding by up to two years because she doesn't feel 'ready to be a wife'.

She revealed her plans to tie the knot in a lavish £175,000 ceremony this summer, yet told OK! magazine she and John did not leave enough time to plan their perfect nuptials, and so have decided to delay the proceedings by 'a year or two'.

Pain: After scooping the show to follow their journey to the big day, the couple had began filming just two days before John embarked of his fateful holiday - however insiders have now revealed brave Vicky will continue filming to show 'her next chapter'

Shocking: Following this, Vicky's best friend Paul Burns passed away aged 37 in June, leading to the star confessing her grief was preventing her desire to walk down the aisle

Following this, Vicky's best friend Paul Burns passed away aged 37 in June, leading to the star confessing her grief was preventing her desire to walk down the aisle.

She revealed she had to push back her wedding by a year after Paul's shock death and her fiancé John's grandparents suddenly passed away.

Prior to the Dubai incident, Vicky told MailOnline: 'John has been an amazing support for me, after our summer, it's been very difficult to enjoy planning a wedding, as you know, it ground to a halt throughout the summer because he lost both his grandparents, I lost a best friend.'

====== 1375 ========

CRAIG REVEL HORWOOD, 53, REVEALS HIS PLANS TO MARRY 31-YEAR-OLD BOYFRIEND JONATHAN MYRING

Lovestruck Strictly Come Dancing judge Craig Revel Horwood says that he wants to marry his handsome horticulturist boyfriend Jonathan Myring, who’s 22 years his junior. ‘Its been ten months since we got together and this is serious — I am about to spend Christmas in the bosom of his family down in Sussex,’ says the 53-year-old hoofer. ‘It will be very traditional with lots of children running around.

‘I love it, I will even be doing some cooking. I’m very good at stuffing,’ he says.

‘I honestly hope Jonathan and I will get married. But there won’t be any children — that’s a step too far!’

Strictly Come Dancing judge Craig Revel Horwood leaving his London hotel after the live show with his partner Jonathan Myring who is 22yrs his junior

Stage and screen star Susan Hampshire, 81, insists she will never have cosmetic surgery. ‘I’ve never had any work done on my face. I’ve known people who’ve had tweaks here and there, but the trouble is once you have them, you have to keep on having them,’ she tells me at the Julien Macdonald fashion show in support of the National Osteoporosis Society at Lancaster House. ‘I’m fine as I am. I’m a granny now and I don’t want to compete with the young ones.’

Tragic daughter who haunts Dame Shirley

Dame Shirley Bassey has revealed her bittersweet joy at becoming a great-grandmother over the summer.

‘I am so proud but it has brought back a lot of very painful memories of holding my beautiful baby daughter Samantha,’ she says.

Tragically, Samantha was found dead at a notorious suicide spot, in the River Avon under Bristol’s Clifton Suspension Bridge in 1985.

The daughter of Dame Shirley Bassey (pictured) committed suicide in 1985 in Bristol

‘Sam was only 22 when she died, at the time they said she committed suicide — the truth has never been discovered — but for me, lately, the emotional pain at my age, is getting far worse,’ says the 81-year-old, who has a son and another daughter.

‘I’m spending Christmas with my new great-grandchild, Sophia, and all the family near Reading. I have never had such a wonderful family life before.

‘But I will always feel a part of me is missing.

‘I can’t help thinking about my other daughter and what might have been. I walk around in the street and see my daughter everywhere I go.’

Have Take That had a ‘Ratner moment’? The ‘manband’ have admitted they can’t bear to listen to their own music. ‘Looking back at it, it’s obviously not the sort of record I would buy,’ says Howard Donald of their breakthrough Take That & Party album. Songwriter Gary Barlow adds: ‘There’s obviously the songs where you go, “Why did we do that?” There’s a load of stuff I didn’t want to do at the time, but I had to do because the label wanted to do it.’ Hardly inspiring words to herald the release of Take That’s greatest hits album, Odyssey, today.

Is Poldark star Wilde about Corrie's Hilda?

Poldark actress Gabriella Wilde, who plays snooty heiress Caroline Penvenen in the hit BBC historical drama, is clearly seeking to broaden her appeal.

The 29-year-old posted this picture of herself resembling Coronation Street charlady Hilda Ogden, who was never seen without her headscarf, rollers and pinny.

Mother-of-two Wilde, a former Burberry model whose real name is Gabriella Zanna Vanessa Anstruther-Gough-Calthorpe, is on the lookout for a new role, having just filmed the fifth and final series of Poldark in Cornwall.

Olivia Colman had deportment classes after taking the tiara from Claire Foy for the role of Queen Elizabeth II in the Netflix series The Crown. A movement coach tried to help her master the Queen’s particular way of walking. ‘I walk a bit like a farmer, not a queen, and I’m not a very good physical impersonator. So there is a dollop of artistic licence,’ the Bafta-winning actress admits.

Night a theatergoer's satnav drove Callow to distraction

Four Weddings star Simon Callow reveals how his recent recital of a poignant letter written by Oscar Wilde from Reading Gaol to his former lover Lord Alfred Douglas was marred by a most unlikely disruption.

‘My least favourite thing that has happened to me on stage was very recently when I was doing De Profundis by Oscar Wilde — a rather anguished beast — at the Edinburgh Festival this year,’ he tells me at the unveiling of Charles Dickens: The Lost Portrait at Philip Mould’s Pall Mall gallery.

‘A woman in the audience switched on her satnav and she had no idea how to stop it. It completely ruined the moment and I was furious.’

But, of course, Simon was far too polite to tell her to take the first exit . . .

Bertie gets his gong...

Old Etonian Hugh Laurie received his CBE from the Prince of Wales at Buckingham Palace this week.

Clean-shaven and beaming, 59-year-old Laurie was unrecognisable from his guise as dishevelled Dr Gregory House, the role in the U.S. drama House for which he was reputedly paid £250,000 per episode.

Doubtless the amiable Laurie — whose CBE (for services to drama) follows 2007’s OBE —spared a thought for his old friend and Jeeves & Wooster co-star Stephen Fry, 61, whose most recent attempt to break into U.S TV, The Great Indoors, was canned last year after one series.

====== 1376 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY'S KIOSK KEV UNMASKED AS SURVIVOR STAR AND LIME FARMER CALLED MARK

He made his show debut this year as the stoic outback shack shopkeeper, replacing long-running character Kiosk Keith.

And I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here's Kiosk Kev has been unmasked as a former reality star and lime farmer named Mark, with a penchant for posing for hunky shirtless photos.

The silent shopkeeper's real name is Mark Herlaar, and the bearded hunk is a 53-year-old lime farmer who competed on the Australian version of reality show Survivor in 2017.

Revealed: I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here's Kiosk Kev has been unmasked as a former reality star and lime farmer named Mark, with a penchant for posing for hunky shirtless photos

Hot under the collar: The silent shopkeeper's real name is Mark Herlaar, and the bearded hunk is a 53-year-old lime farmer who competed on the Australian version of reality show Survivor in 2017

The Toowoomba, Queensland native reportedly caught the eye of ITV bosses when he advertised himself as an actor on casting websites.

Away from the fearsome jungle camp he runs his own farming business growing limes and mushrooms with his son.

Looking worlds away from his stony-faced onscreen persona, Mark's Instagram is littered with hunky shirtless snaps of himself, at one with nature.

He also proudly promotes his vegan lifestyle, so it remains unknown what he thinks of the celebs chowing down on mealworms and kangaroo testicles in the jungle.

Like the I'm A Celeb line-up, Mark is well-versed in survival skills. He completed on Survivor, which sees contestants marooned on a desert island where they must find food, water, and shelter.

Rugged: The Toowoomba, Queensland native reportedly caught the eye of ITV bosses when he advertised himself as an actor on casting websites

The father-of-two was one of 24 castaways dropped into the Samoan jungle, where he survived for 11 days before being cruelly voted out.

Nicknamed Tarzan in the show for his flowing beard and tousled locks, he quickly gained fans for his kind and selfless nature.

The resilient star later contrated dysentery from drinking water and said at the time: 'It manifested two days after I got home and I was just crook as a dog, like I had dysentery and was nauseated and sick.

'And if that had of played out [in camp] I would have been very disappointed to be going out, basically, in a body bag with the zipper open.'

Wow: Looking worlds away from his stony-faced onscreen persona, Mark's Instagram is littered with hunky shirtless snaps of himself, at one with nature

All smiles: The star looked delighted as he showed off his rippling biceps

The long-running 'character' Kisok Keith - who delivers questions to camp mates and rewards them with treats if they answer correctly - was sacked from the show 'for behaving inappropriately' last January.

The original actor who played the role of Keith - real name Raymond Grant - reportedly turned up drunk to work and made unwanted advances towards a female colleague on the bus into the Australian jungle.

The father-of-four was sacked after the woman - who is 'half his age' - was left 'so upset' by his alleged behaviour that she complained to ITV bosses, sources claimed earlier this year.

He had been a fixture on the ITV show since 2013.

Reality star: Like the I'm A Celeb line-up, Mark is well-versed in survival skills. He completed on Survivor, which sees contestants marooned on a desert island where they must find food, water, and shelter

Hot under the collar: Nicknamed Tarzan in the show for his flowing beard and tousled locks, he quickly gained fans for his kind and selfless nature

An ITV spokesperson confirmed that Raymond had been sacked and will not appear on screen again as Kiosk Keith.

They told MailOnline: 'Ray is no longer under contract on the show. There are no plans for him to return this year.'

Raymond had been due to appear on the German version of the popular show - which aired in January.

Raymond had been a firm favourite with fans and even has his own Twitter page, which claims: 'Aussie LAD born and bred. Employee of the month at The Outback Shack. I'm the biggest Celebrity in I'm a Celebrity.'

Natural living: The star promotes a vegan lifestyle on his social media, quite at odds with the bug munching celebrities in the camp

New guard: Mark's appearance in the Dingo Dollar shack has seen him win fans for his luscious beard and steely demeanour

He is best known for running the camp shop, and delighted viewers with his grumpy exterior when stars approach him to collect their prizes for the Dingo Dollar challenges.

Raymond started off on the show as a labourer in 2002, when he helped to build the show's set, and was scouted by bosses to star as the silent shopkeeper.

However, his ex-wife Donna revealed Keith is not a full time job, and Raymond is simply called away from his artistic duties when they want to film scenes at the Outback Shack.

She also went on to shock fans by revealing he is not paid any extra for the on-screen role, despite his huge popularity.

====== 1377 ========

ARLENE PHILLIPS RETURNS TO STRICTLY FOR THE FIRST TIME SINCE SHE WAS AXED

She was famously axed from the hit ballroom show in 2009 with the BBC accused of ageism when she was replaced with a much younger judge.

And Arlene Phillips will make her sensational return to Strictly Come Dancing on Sunday- as the former judge admitted the decision to come back was a 'really hard' decision to make.

The choreographer, 75, has created a dance routine which will appear on Sunday night's results show and features the professional dancers and disabled and non-disabled dance company Candoco.

Comeback: Arlene Phillips will make her sensational return to Strictly Come Dancing on Sunday as the former judge said the decision to come back was a 'really hard' decision to make (pictured on the show in 2008)

Return:The choreographer, 75, has created a dance routine which will appear on Sunday night's results show and features the professional dancers and disabled and non-disabled dance company Candoco

Speaking to The Sun she said: 'I did this because this is where my heart lies. I didn't do this about resolving anything with Strictly.

'Was it hard for me to say yes? I've got to tell you, it was really hard.'

The star added that it would be emotional to return to the studio and hadn't decided whether to watch the show from the audience on Saturday night.

'But I am not sure, at the moment I haven't replaced myself. So of course it would be very emotional to be there in the studio.'

Old guard: Speaking to The Sun she said: 'I did this because this is where my heart lies. I didn't do this about resolving anything with Strictly. 'Was it hard for me to say yes? I've got to tell you, it was really hard'

Shock: The star was axed from the beloved ballroom show herself in 2009, after six series. The BBC were accused of ageism after they dropped the choreographer from the judging panel and replaced her with pop star Alesha Dixon - who is 36 years her junior

Arlene shared a group photo of the Strictly pros and Candoco dancers, writing: 'I have loved working with these phenomenally talented dancers. Truly inspiring. Tune into @bbcstrictly on Sunday night to see the piece we've created. '

The star was axed from the beloved ballroom show herself in 2009, after six series.

The BBC were accused of ageism after they dropped the choreographer from the judging panel and replaced her with pop star Alesha Dixon - who is 36 years her junior.

The former Hot Gossip director has made no secret of her disappointment at being let go from the show.

Speaking of Len Goodman's departure on ITV in 2016, she said: 'Len is going and as always when the BBC said goodbye, the BBC do what the BBC want to do so I have no clue.'

Before admitting in an interview with Good Housekeeping last year: 'I've never really been given a real reason [as to why I was axed]. I don't think I will ever know the answer.'

====== 1378 ========

KATYA JONES LEAVES HUSBAND NEIL DISGUSTED BY NEW SHOCK REVELATION

Their marriage has been back on track after she kissed dance partner Seann Walsh on a night out.

But Strictly Come Dancing's Katya Jones left her husband Neil utterly disgusted on Wednesday's It Takes Two, after revealing she's tried to eat spaghetti through her nose.

It came as the couple took part in a game alongside their fellow Strictly pros where they had to guess some of the most outrageous facts about each other, with Katya's secret leaving Neil numb with shock.

Gross: Strictly Come Dancing's Katya Jones left her husband Neil utterly disgusted on Wednesday's It Takes Two, after revealing she's tried to eat spaghetti through their nose

Neil and Katya joined their fellow Strictly pros in being asked which of them had tried to snort spaghetti up their nose.

Giovanni Pernice was quick to add: 'Which pro is weird? That's what you're asking me. Which pro is the weirdest one? Spaghetti from the nose?'

Janette Manrara was quick to issue a firm warning to her husband Aljaž Škorjanec, telling him: 'Aljaž, if you ever put spaghetti up your nose you're going to get it from your wife.

'So this better not have been you. I can definitely see him being dared to do it and having done it.'

Shocking: Taking part in an It Takes Two segment with their fellow pros, Katya admitted she was the guilty party who tried to eat spaghetti through her nose

But lucky for Janette and Aljaž the guilty party was in fact Katya, as she quickly told the camera: 'Oh, come on guys! I thought you'd get that! It's obviously me!

'I once ate spaghetti through my nose. Please don't try that at home.'

The revelation about his wife left poor Neil utterly shell-shocked, telling the camera: 'What? I’m not cooking pasta for her ever again!'

Outraged: The shock revelation about his wife left Neil stunned, leading him to say: 'What? I’m not cooking pasta for her ever again!'

This shock revelation comes after Katya faced an enormous fallout alongside comedian Seann Walsh, after the pair were spotted sharing a kiss together on a night out in London.

The comedian issued a feeble apology in which he blamed his actions on alcohol, while Katya echoed the sentiments however insisted her marriage to fellow Strictly Come Dancing professional Neil is fine.

However it appears that Katya's other half has reason to worry again, as the pair are said to be dancing together for the finale in a few weeks, according to The Sun.

Back to best: It seems that Seann and Katya's marriage is back on track, as the pair were also seen dancing together for the first time in Saturday's Blackpool special

A source told the publication: 'Neil will be gutted as when Seann was voted off the show, he was glad to see the back of him.

'Since he went, the atmosphere backstage has improved and Neil has been visibly happier.

'Things are back on track in his marriage - so he’ll be gutted when Seann is back on set.'

MainOnline has contacted representatives for Seann, Katya and Neil for further comment.

Scandalous: Seann and Katya stunned Strictly fans and the showbiz world when footage emerged last month showing the pair locking lips outside a west London pub

After the kiss came to light, Seann was dumped by girlfriend Rebecca online in a scathing statement in which she revealed she was taking their beloved cat Winston.

And just last week, Jones couldn't help but post a cryptic message about 'never looking back' as he took to Instagram to share a smouldering snap.

The snap came amid reports that Neil allegedly likened Seann to a 'scab' and said he was 'delighted' his wife and the comedian were kicked off Strictly after the pair were caught kissing.

Aftermath: The comedian issued a feeble apology in which he blamed his actions on alcohol, while Katya echoed the sentiments however insisted her marriage to fellow Strictly Come Dancing professional Neil is fine

According to The Sun, Neil has reportedly been telling his friends he can 'finally move on' from the cheating scandal as Seann has left the show meaning the atmosphere is 'great again'.

Seann and Katya's appearance on the show, which ended in elimination in October, was shrouded in controversy after they were pictured kissing after a drunken night out at a London pub.

Sources claim Katya and Neil, who has since forgiven his wife for the indiscretion, are worried they will be dropped by BBC bosses because of the incident and subsequent backlash from viewers.

Consequences: After the kiss came to light, Seann was dumped by girlfriend Rebecca online in a scathing statement in which she revealed she was taking their beloved cat Winston

A source told The Sun: 'January is when the new cast contracts are issued and this year there is massive panic from the dancers about their futures.

'Katya and Neil are worried bosses feel her dalliance with Seann has left a black mark that can't be removed against their names.'

And it seems that the married couple aren't the only ones fretting over their future on the show.

The insider said: 'Others are also panicked. Everyone feels that they have to be on best behaviour.'

====== 1379 ========

CHEST-MOUNTED ROBOT THAT ACTS AS A THIRD ARM FEEDS PEOPLE WHEN THEY'RE TOO FULL TO MOVE

Scientists have created a strange chest-mounted robot that could feed the greediest of people when they're too full to move.

The peculiar 'Arm-A-Dine' robot arm attaches to the middle of someone's chest and takes food from their plate to their mouth.

The robot, which is still just a prototype, is designed to augment the social experience of eating, researchers say.

The robotic arm was created by Exertion Games Lab at RMIT University in Australia and the Indian Institute of Information Technology Design.

'Arm-A-Dine is our design exploration of a novel two-person playful eating system that focuses on a shared feeding experience', researchers told Spectrum.

'In this experience, all three arms (the person’s own two arms and the “third” arm, the robotic arm) are used for feeding oneself and the other person.'

The robotic arm is attached top the body via a vest.

'We playfully subverted the functioning of the robotic arm so that its final movements (once it has picked up the food), i.e. whether to feed the wearer or the partner, are guided by the facial expressions of the dining partner.'

The arms move up and down by themselves but don't go all the way to the mouth.

Instead, they stop ten centimetres away 'for safety reasons', researchers say.

Scientists have created a strange chest-mounted robot that could feed people when they're too full to move. The peculiar 'Arm-A-Dine' robot arm attaches to the middle of someone's chest and takes food from their plate to their mouth

The robot, which is still just a prototype, is designed to augment the social experience of eating, researchers say

The robotic arm was created by Exertion Games Lab at RMIT University in Australia and the Indian Institute of Information Technology Design

They are also not totally autonomous, so people have to move to position them over their food.

The robot decides which person to give the food to depending their facial expressions.

If people smile they are more likely to be offered food and if they're frowning they don't get it.

'Mapping of the partner’s “more positive” facial expression to the feeding of food to the partner (via the wearer’s third arm) we hoped would elicit joy, laughter, and a sense of sharing based on the knowledge of feeding one another', researchers said.

The arms move up and down by themselves but don't go all the way to the mouth. Instead, they stop ten centimetres away 'for safety reasons', researchers say

The robot decides which person to give the food to depending their facial expressions. If people smile they are more likely to be offered food and if they're frowning they don't get it

'Through to-and-fro ambiguous movements of the third arm in the air (when sensing a “neutral” facial expression of the dining partner), it gave an opportunity to the diners to express their reactions more vividly'.

Researchers say that Arm-a-Dine encourages people to savour food by making the experience slower and stranger.

The robotic arm is not currently a commercial project and it is not clear if and when it could be made available.

====== 1380 ========

NEW REGION OF THE BRAIN DISCOVERED THAT COULD HELP CURE PARKINSON'S

Scientists have found a tiny new region of the brain that only humans have - and they believe it could be what makes our species unique.

Researchers say the incredible find could help find a treatment for Parkinson's and motor neurone disease.

For thirty years scientists - who have likened the discovery to finding a new star - suspected this region existed but were unable to see it.

Scroll down for video

Scientists have found a new region of the brain that only humans have - and they believe it could be what makes our species unique. The new region is called Endorestiform Nucleus

Professor George Paxinos from Neuroscience Research Australia (NeuRA) found the hidden region.

He was able to find the region, called the Endorestiform Nucleus, thanks to better staining and imaging techniques.

'The region is intriguing because it seems to be absent in the rhesus monkey and other animals that we have studied,' said Professor Paxinos.

'This region could be what makes humans unique besides our larger brain size', he said.

The region is found near the brain-spinal cord junction.

This is an area that integrates sensory and motor information to refine our posture, balance and fine motor movements.

For thirty years scientists - who have likened the discovery to finding a new star - suspected this region existed but were unable to see it

Professor George Paxinos from Neuroscience Research Australia (NeuRA) found the hidden region. He was able to find the region, called the Endorestiform Nucleus, thanks to better staining and imaging techniques

'I can only guess as to its function, but given the part of the brain where it has been found, it might be involved in fine motor control,' said Professor Paxinos.

The discovery of the region may help researchers explore cures for diseases including Parkinson's disease and motor neurone disease.

Parkinson’s disease affects one in 500 people, and around 127,000 people in the UK live with the condition.

It causes muscle stiffness, slowness of movement, tremors, sleep disturbance, chronic fatigue, an impaired quality of life and can lead to severe disability.

Motor neurone disease is when specialist nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord called motor neurones stop working properly

Neuroscientists researching neurological or psychiatric diseases already use Professor Paxinos' maps to guide their work.

The discovery of the region may help researchers explore cures for diseases including Parkinson's disease and motor neurone disease

His brain atlases are heralded as the most accurate for the identification of brain structures and are also used in neurosurgery.

'Professor Paxinos' atlases showing detailed morphology and connections of the human brain and spinal cord, provide a critical framework for researchers to test hypotheses from synaptic function to treatments for diseases of the brain,' said Professor Peter Schofield, CEO at NeuRA.

Professor Paxinos is the author of the most cited publication in neuroscience and another 52 books of highly detailed maps of the brain.

The maps chart the course for neurosurgery and neuroscience research, enabling exploration, discovery and the development of treatments for diseases and disorders of the brain.

His new findings are revealed in his latest book, Human Brainstem: Cytoarchitecture, Chemoarchitecture, Myeloarchitecture.

====== 1381 ========

ASTRONOMERS DETECT WATER IN THE ATMOSPHERE OF A PLANET 179 LIGHT YEARS AWAY

Astronomers have detected water in the atmosphere of a planet 179 light years away in the hunt for alien life.

A team at the Keck Observatory in Maunakea, Hawaii made the discovery when investigating HR 8799c - a gas planet seven times the size of Jupiter.

The planet, one of four which orbit the star HR 8799, was found 179 light years away in the constellation Pegasus.

A team at the Keck Observatory in Maunakea, Hawaii made the discovery when investigating HR 8799c - a giant gas planet seven times the size of Jupiter

Astronomers used state-of-the-art instrumentation to confirm the existence of water and a lack of methane in the planet's atmosphere.

The team combined high-resolution spectroscopy with a technique known as adaptive optics, which corrected the blurring effect of Earth’s atmosphere.

Once a photograph was taken of the planet, astronomers then used instruments called spectrometers to break apart the planet's light.

This revealed a fingerprint of the chemicals in the atmosphere - a feat possible due to a spectrometer on the Keck 2 telescope called the Near-Infrared Cryogenic Echelle Spectrograph (NIRSPEC).

'This type of technology is exactly what we want to use in the future to look for signs of life on an Earth-like planet,' said Dimitri Mawet, an associate professor of astronomy at Caltech.

'We aren’t there yet but we are marching ahead.'

Though astronomers have photographed more than a dozen exoplanets, HR 8799 is so-far the only multi-planet solar system to have had its picture taken.

The planet, one of four which orbit the star HR 8799, was found 179 light years away in the constellation Pegasus

Experts now hope to repeat the process on smaller planets which are closer to their stars.

The goal, scientists at the Keck Observatory wrote, is to look for chemicals signaling a habitable atmosphere for life on Earth-like planets such as water, oxygen and methane.

It is hoped this will be realised with the upcoming Thirty Meter Telescope - a giant instrument planned for the late 2020s.

Ji Wang, the lead author of a Astronomical Journal paper on the findings, said: 'Right now, with Keck, we can already learn about the physics and dynamics of these giant exotic planets, which are nothing like our own solar system planets.

'We are now more certain about the lack of methane in this planet. This may be due to mixing in the planet’s atmosphere.

'The methane, which we would expect to be there on the surface, could be diluted if the process of convection is bringing up deeper layers of the planet that don’t have methane.'

====== 1382 ========

LIONS MAY DISAPPEAR WITHOUT URGENT FUNDING FOR CONSERVATION

The latest series from BBC Earth follows the true stories of five of the world's most celebrated, yet endangered animals like penguins, chimpanzees and tigers.

This Sunday the programme will follow lionesses battling for their very survival in a land filled with enemies.

The big cats have to make sure that their offspring survive against the extreme challenges imposed on them to remain in the wild.

Writing for The Conversation, Niki Rust, a Postdoctoral Researcher at Newcastle University talks about what we can do to ensure lions survival and how conservationists have brought together five lion NGOs to pool their efforts and share funding.

Some experts believe that we could now have as few as 20,000 individuals remaining in the wild – and that number is likely to be falling by the day. Pictured here: Lionesses with cubs in Etosha National Park

If, like me, you've been avidly watching BBC One's new nature series, Dynasties, you'll probably be looking forward to the latest episode on lions, due to air this Sunday.

In it, the protagonists, Charm and Sienna, will show us how hard it is to be a successful lioness in a land filled with enemies.

Under constant threat of marauding hyenas and cub-killing male lions, the two mothers have to fight for their lives to ensure their offspring have a chance of making it to adulthood.

But the episode will also show us that the biggest enemy of lions isn't other wild predators – it's humans.

Down from as many as 200,000 lions a century ago, some experts believe that we could now have as few as 20,000 individuals remaining in the wild – and that number is likely to be falling by the day.

Worryingly, the general public are mostly unaware of their precarious conservation status. We have done a bad job of showing the perilous state of these big cats.

The lion's kingdom under siege

Lions face attack by humans on many fronts. Panthera, a wild cat conservation organisation, believes the most serious causes for their decline include habitat loss, humans killing them to protect their livestock, wild prey depletion, accidental snaring, poorly managed trophy hunting and the illegal wildlife trade.

Since their threats are so varied, there is no single solution for protecting lions and overcoming these threats will be no mean feat.

It will require locally-tailored solutions that fit each specific context.

For instance, for lions that reside alongside people in areas outside national parks, research has shown that it is absolutely vital to reduce the perceived costs of lions to local people, like livestock depredation, while increasing their benefits, such as income from photographic tourism or trophy hunting.

Causes for their decline include habitat loss, humans killing them to protect their livestock, wild prey depletion, accidental snaring, poorly managed trophy hunting and the illegal wildlife trade. Pictured here, tourists gather to spot lions on safari in the Maasai Mara park

For lions inside protected areas, some experts argue that we must fence lions in to stop them causing problems with people.

However, this has earned criticism from others, who believe that fences incur significant ecological and economic costs by disrupting the migration of herbivores.

The issue over 'to fence or not to fence' has turned into a bit of cat fight and shows the political nuances and ecological complexities of conserving such a charismatic species.

In a bold attempt to reunite conservationists, Pride, the Lion Conservation Alliance, has brought together five lion NGOs to pool their efforts and share funding.

It may come as no surprise that, like the species they're fighting to conserve, they have realised the benefits of coming together and working as a team rather than competing.

A lion always pays his debts

Focusing on lion populations in Kenya, Mozambique, Tanzania and Zambia, their community conservation efforts empower locals to be stewards of wildlife.

By turning lion poachers into guardians, their initiatives have reduced lion killing by up to 99 per cent in some of the areas in which they work.

By building on the cultural significance of lion hunts, young warriors that would usually show their bravery by killing lions are now employed to track lions and monitor their activities.

The areas where lions are known to have lived in the past (red) versus where they survive today (blue) In a bold attempt to reunite conservationists, Pride, the Lion Conservation Alliance, has brought together five lion NGOs to pool their efforts and share funding.

They also inform their community if lions are approaching so that farmers can guard their livestock.

While TV shows like Dynasties are helping to raise the profile of this threatened carnivore, what the lion needs now more than anything is funding.

Conserving lions is an expensive business: one recent paper showed that to effectively manage the protected areas where lions currently reside would require a whopping US$0.9 to US$2.1 billion in additional income per year – on top of the money that is already raised.

Where this cash comes from remains a bit of a mystery. We have to go beyond financing conservation from the meagre income of photographic tourism in national parks.

Solutions could involve more corporate partnerships and financially linking lion lovers in the West to Africans living with lions.

An idea from Sir David Attenborough himself argues that companies that use lions in their marketing should pay for lion conservation.

What is abundantly clear is that if we want lions to have a future, we must start stumping up the cash for their conservation.

Many commentators have suggested BBC's Dynasties takes on the gripping, conflict-ridden format of storytelling that Game of Thrones perfected.

If this is the case, humans would surely play the vicious and selfish King Joffrey. It is us, after all, who terrorise lions the most. But it is us, too, who have the power to guarantee their survival.

====== 1383 ========

NEWFOUND SPECIES WAS THE SIZE OF A SMALL CAR AND WALKED THE EARTH 225 MILLION YEARS AGO

Macrocollum itaquii was vegetarian and stood at 12 feet long and five feet tall

A newfound species unearthed in Brazil is the oldest long-necked dinosaur ever discovered.

Three 'exceptionally well-preserved' dinosaur skeletons dug up in Rio Grande do Sul are estimated to have walked the Earth 225 million years ago.

The species, known as Macrocollum itaquii, was vegetarian, stood at around 12 feet long and five feet tall, and weighed around 200 pounds.

Three 'exceptionally well-preserved' dinosaur skeletons dug up in Rio Grande do Sul are estimated to have walked the earth 225 million years ago (pictured, an artist's impression)

One of the most striking features of animal was its long neck - and scientists now believe it to be the oldest long-necked sauropodomorpha ever discovered.

Its 'remarkably elongated' neck would have 'provided a competitive advantage' when gathering food resources, a report published Royal Society journal Biology Letters said.

The species would have existed on Earth during the Triassic period, when Brazil was still a part of super-continent Pangaea.

The dinosaur is also a distant cousin of sauropods like the Brontosaurus - a long-necked herbivore who walked on four legs and was ten times its size.

One of the most striking features of skeleton was its long neck - and scientists now believe it to be the oldest long-necked dinosaur ever discovered

But unlike these giant beasts, Macrocollum itaquii walked on two legs when it roamed South America.

This discovery is particularly remarkable as experts believe it proved the dinosaurs chose to live in groups rather than alone.

'There are three articulated skeletons in five tons of rock,' Rodrigo Müller from the Federal University of Santa Maria in Brazil, told the Independent.

'This is unique. It suggests these animals probably died together, as they share the same degree of disarticulation.

Two of the skeletons had perfectly preserved skulls (pictured) which is extremely rare in bones this old

'So if they died together, these dinosaurs probably lived together.'

The dinosaur skeletons were unearthed after Mr Müller's uncle found a group of fossils on a rural property in Agudo, southern Brazil in 2012.

This tip led to the discovery of the three skeletons, two of which had perfectly preserved skulls.

====== 1384 ========

STAR WARS DEATH STAR BUILT FOR REAL WOULD COST 'QUINTILLIONS'

The latest entry to the Star Wars film series 'Rogue One: A Star Wars Story' hit UK cinemas this week.

The franchise's infamous Death Star space station is the size of a small moon, and can blow up entire planets.

But how would someone go about building the apocalyptic war machine?

Keen engineers would need enough material to make a 75 mile diameter space station, housing two million personnel.

Writing for The Conversation, Martin Archer, a space plasma physicist at Queen Mary University of London, explores how the Death Star might work.

In Star Wars lore, the 120km (75-mile) diameter Death Star (pictured) was made from quadanium steel (a fictional metal alloy) and crewed by 2 million Imperial personnel, including officers, Stormtroopers and TIE pilots

THE VALUE OF A DEATH STAR An assistant professor of electrical and systems engineering at Washington University in St. Louis estimated the economic toll of Star Wars' fictional Battle of Endor last year. Zachary Feinstein, PhD, used the USS Gerald Ford as a model, calculating that the two destroyed Death Stars would cost $193 quintillion and $419 quintillion. In order to prevent total collapse, a bailout of at least 15 percent of the Galaxy's $4.6 sextillion economy would be required. To make the calculations, Feinstein applied economic modelling and systemic risk analysis to the Galaxy's economy.

I'm very excited about seeing 'Rogue One: A Star Wars Story', which tells the tale summarised in the original Star Wars' opening crawl.

This is the story of how the rebels stole the plans to the original 'Death Star' – a space station the size of a small moon with a weapon powerful enough to destroy a planet.

If we could get our hands on those plans, could we build a similar fortress?

I decided to try and work out some aspects of how a Death Star might actually work.

In Star Wars lore, the 120km (75-mile) diameter space station was made from quadanium steel (a fictional metal alloy) and crewed by 2 million Imperial personnel, including officers, Stormtroopers and TIE pilots.

So would it possible in the real world?

Let's not worry about the vast quantities of raw materials required.

For example, at current production rates of steel it would take 182 times the current age of the universe to accrue enough.

I'm more concerned conceptually with how to power such a colossal battle station and how to generate gravity for everyone on board.

It turns out our conventional technologies might not cut it.

The International Space Station requires about 0.75W of power for every m³ of the space station.

These are provided by eight solar arrays, 112 feet (34m) long by 39 feet (12m) wide.

Even if we had 100 per cent efficient solar panels covering the much larger Death Star, we'd still be a factor of 45 times short of the ISS's power requirements per unit volume.

Not to mention that power would severely diminish if we took the space station further away from the sun.

'Rogue One: A Star Wars Story' tells the tale of how the rebels stole the plans to the original 'Death Star' – a space station the size of a small moon with a weapon powerful enough to destroy a planet. Pictured is one of the film's many 'storm trooper' villains

You might think we could learn lessons from the sci-fi classic '2001 A Space Odyssey' in terms of the gravity and just spin the Death Star to create artificial gravity via centrifugal forces.

To replicate the gravity on Earth (9.81 metres per second squared or 1g), the station would only need to revolve once every 3.5 minutes, which doesn't sound too absurd.

But there was a reason the station was ring-shaped in 2001.

The centrifugal force is proportional to the radius of your circular path.

As you travel either towards the centre of the station or towards the poles, this radius decreases meaning the artificial gravity would start to vanish.

If indeed gravity was created this way, it calls into question the Death Star's spherical design.

What if at the heart of the Death Star is an artificial star? Perhaps the clue was in the name the whole time.

Surely that would solve the gravity problem?

This makes the station something of a Dyson sphere, the sort of technological megastructure physicist Freeman Dyson imagined advanced civilisations might be able to build to harness all the energy from their stars.

However, Dyson spheres of the rigid shell variety usually run into problems from being under immense stresses due to the gravitational forces.

Even if the sphere isn't ripped apart by this, just a small push certainly would be enough to send the structure crashing into its star.

The pressures involved inside the Death Star reactor would be immense. The artificial star's own gravity would not be enough to contain the fusion plasma, so we would need something extra

But Dyson spheres are usually imagined to be the size of the Earth's orbit around the sun.

For a much smaller Death Star, most of the problems with the Dyson sphere go away.

The 13.2km diameter reactor core would only require a mass 370 times less than our moon's.

It turns out while steel and titanium would just about fail under these conditions, the wonder material graphene, for example, could easily withstand the gravitational forces involved.

And we wouldn't actually need a real star at the centre of the station – the future technology of nuclear fusion could easily provide enough power.

While at the moment we tend to put more energy in than we get out in our fusion experiments, many plasma physicists think the key is going bigger and hope that the ITER experiment, which will be one-third of the volume of an Olympic swimming pool, will turn the tide in this regard.

If successful, we could expect power from our Death Star up to two million times that consumed by the entire human race.

But there are still problems.

The pressures involved inside our Death Star reactor would be immense.

The artificial star's own gravity would not be enough to contain the fusion plasma, so we would need something extra.

As we've learned from thinking about lightsabers, magnetic fields could provide the solution.

The only snag is that we'd need some of the strongest magnetic fields in the universe – a million times greater than we've ever created on Earth and comparable to those of magnetars – a type of neutron star with an extremely powerful magnetic field.

====== 1385 ========

PLASTIC BOTTLE FOUND IN STOMACH OF A DEAD MONKFISH IN SOUTH KOREA

A whole 500ml plastic bottle was found inside the stomach of a monkfish by a fisherman in South Korea.

The disturbing discovery was described as a wake-up call for governments to commit to reducing waste in the coastal areas.

The monkfish was caught along with ten others in the coastal town of Buan-Gun near North Jeolla on Monday.

Scroll down for video

A whole 500ml plastic bottle was found inside the stomach of a monkfish by a fisherman in South Korea. The grim discovery is a wake-up call to governments to commit to reducing waste in the coastal areas

A fisherman named Hwang noticed that one of the them had a bloated stomach and cut it open expecting to find prey.

Monkfish are known for their wide mouths frequently swallow other species like squid or other flatfish, making them profitable finds for fishermen.

Expecting to find the prey it swallowed, he opened up the fish's stomach, only to find the plastic bottle.

Environmental activists are calling for a 'systemic response' from the government to ensure safe disposal of plastic waste.

'Hwang opened up the fish and found a plastic bottle, so he sent me a photo,' said Lee In-gyu, a member of the Korean Federation of Environmental Movement's North Jeolla branch.

'It shows that the marine debris issue is quite severe in Korea.'

Local fishermen consider the waters near Buan County a rich fishing ground.

'We're finding more plastic and trash inside fish these days,' Hwang said.

'I've found vinyl products, cans and pieces of plastic inside some fish, and this is not limited to monkfish.

Earlier in this week, a sperm whale washed ashore off the Indonesian coast with almost 6kg of plastic inside it, including 115 plastic drinking cups. The rotting carcass of the 31-foot (9.5-meter) whale was found Monday in shallow waters just off Kapota Island

The whale had consumed a horrifying collection of plastic trash, including 115 drinking cups, 25 plastic bags, plastic bottles, two flip-flops and a bag containing more than 1,000 pieces of string

I've found plastic waste inside mudskippers and bartail flatheads, too.

'It is worrying because people don't seem to care for the environment.'

Earlier in this week, a sperm whale washed ashore off the Indonesian coast with almost 6kg of plastic inside it, including 115 plastic drinking cups.

A Greenpeace senior oceans campaigner said: 'If nature had a distress signal to warn us that it can't take any more of our plastic rubbish, it would look like this - a dead whale with 1,000 pieces of plastic in its stomach.

'When the news about the dead whale broke, it seemed like something happening quite far away,' said Lee Jeong-hyun, secretary general of the Korean Federation of Environmental Movement's North Jeolla branch.

'But the news about the monkfish that swallowed a whole plastic bottle shocked me. This is a warning for us all.'

HOW SEVERE IS INDONESIA'S PLASTIC WASTE PROBLEM? Four of Indonesia's rivers rank among the 20 most polluted in the world. Plastic waste in Indonesia's Ciliwung River This means the country is the second-largest contributor to marine plastic pollution after China. An estimated 200,000 tonnes of plastic flows into the world's oceans from Indonesia's rivers every year, mainly from Java and Sumatra. As well as ocean pollution levels, the country's plastic problem also affects its residents. Microplastic produced by the break-down of larger pieces of waste are ingested by fish, and later passed up the food chain to humans. Trash Free Seas Alliance (TFSA), a United States NGO, revealed in December 2017 that microplastics had been found in 28 per cent of fish in Indonesia's markets.

According to a UN report published in 2017 at the Ocean Conference in New York, more than eight million tons of plastic waste are swept into the oceans every year.

They said that at that rate, by 2050 oceans will hold more plastic than fish.

Lee called for a government commitment to reducing waste in the coastal areas.

'The government should come up with a more systemic response to collect sea-side waste in time.'

The Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries, a branch of the government in South Korea collects some 70,000 to 80,000 tons of waste in coastal areas every year.

But it says it cannot collect everything before it's swept into the ocean.

'We have some 180,000 tons of marine debris every year,' the ministry said in a statement in May.

Marine biologists believe that the amount of plastic in the ocean now makes it next to impossible sea life to eat any nutritional food.

====== 1386 ========

SATELLITES WILL BROADCAST THE STATUS OF NASA'S INSIGHT LANDER AS IT ENTERS MARS

A pair of tiny experimental satellites are poised to broadcast the status of Nasa's InSight lander as it plunges into the atmosphere of Mars.

The world's first interplanetary CubeSats will report the condition of the spacecraft as it makes its way through the Martian atmosphere on Monday.

The twin satellites, named WALL-E and EVE after the 2008 Disney Pixar film, will pass within a few thousand miles of the planet as the lander attempts a touchdown.

CubeSats WALL-E and EVE will report the condition of the Nasa InSight lander as it makes its way through the Martian atmosphere on Monday (pictured, an illustration of the satellites over Mars)

Nasa will know whether the landing was successful in less than nine minutes if the CubeSats manage to relay a signal to ground controllers more than 100million miles away.

It takes eight minutes and seven seconds for a radio signal to travel from Mars to Earth, and it should take less than a minute on top of that to get word from InSight.

The briefcase-sized satellites, part of the Mars Cube One project, were launched into space alongside InSight to Mars in May.

Nasa kept the CubeSats around 6,000 miles behind the larger spacecraft as the trio made the 300million mile journey to the planet to prevent any collisions.

WALL-E and EVE were kept the same distance from each other for the same reason - but this 'very loose formation' has varied throughout the six month mission.

The two satellites passed a series of radio-relay tests using signals from a big dish antenna near Palo Alto, California in June.

Nasa will know in less than nine minutes whether the spacecraft landed safely if the CubeSats manage to relay a signal 100million miles (pictured, engineer Joel Steinkraus tests a satellite in Pasadena, California)

Chief engineer Andy Klesh said the success of this trial gave engineers confidence in the CubeSats' ability to do the same with InSight's signals on landing day.

WALL-E and EVE also sent back photos of Mars, which at the time was a bright pinpoint, from eight million miles way last month.

The twin satellites will venture past Mars and remain in an elliptical orbit around the sun following InSight's landing.

Engineers expect them to keep working for a few weeks beyond the landing depending on how long fuel and electronic reserves last.

This Mars Cube One project, or MarCO, built and managed by NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, cost £14.4 million ($18.5 million) to complete.

====== 1387 ========

DRINKING TEA OR COFFEE DURING PREGNANCY REDUCES BABY SIZE

Blood flow to the foetus is restricted, says University College Dublin study

The NHS recommends no more than two mugs of coffee or three cups of tea

Women who drink tea or coffee during pregnancy are more likely to have small babies, research suggests.

Even women who drink less than the 'safe' cutoff of 200mg caffeine - about two mugs of instant coffee or three cups of tea - are more at risk of having low-birth weight or premature newborns.

The researchers, from University College Dublin, believe caffeine restricts blood flow to the placenta, affecting babies' growth.

Drinking tea or coffee, even less than two-to-three mugs a day, during pregnancy could result in a smaller baby, researchers from the University College Dublin found

The study, led by doctor Ling-Wei Chen, looked at 941 mother-child pairs born in Ireland. Tea was the mothers' main source of caffeine (48 per cent), followed by coffee (38 percent).

The results suggested that for every additional 100mg of caffeine - around half a cup of coffee - consumed daily during the first trimester, birth weight was reduced by 0.5lbs (72g).

This amount of caffeine also decreased the babies' length and head circumference, as well as their gestational age, which measures the length of pregnancy.

Results further found the women who consumed the most caffeine had babies weighing around 0.37lbs (170g) less than those who had the least.

Even women who took in less than the 'safe' amount of 200mg of caffeine, saw significant affects. This is amount is deemed safe by the NHS.

The study was published in The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition.

Dr Chen told Reuters: 'Based on the consistent associations we observed, and because many pregnancies are unplanned, we would recommend women who are pregnant or seeking to become pregnant at least limit their intakes of caffeinated coffee and tea.

DO SUGARY DRINKS AFFECT A WOMAN'S CHANCES OF CONCEIVING? Women who consume sugary drinks while having IVF cut their chances of conceiving, research suggested in October 2017. Drinking more than one sugary beverage a day reduces a woman's chance of having a live birth after IVF by 16 per cent, a Harvard University study found. Having just one sugary drink a day lowers the chance of successful IVF by 12 per cent, the research adds. Sugary drinks also reduce the number and maturity of a woman's ovarian cells, as well as lowering their amount of high-quality embryos, the study found. Previous research suggests sugar stimulates the release of stress hormones that affect the health of the reproductive system. Eggs and embryos may also fail to thrive in high blood glucose environments. The researchers analysed 340 women undergoing IVF between 2014 and 2016. The study's participants were investigated during the second stage of IVF treatment, known as ovarian stimulation, when the goal is to harvest as many mature eggs as possible from the ovaries. They completed a questionnaire to assess their drink consumption. The participant's IVF outcomes were determined through their medical records. No link was found between coffee, caffeinated drinks or diet sodas and a woman's IVF prospects.

'High caffeine intake can result in restricted blood flow in the placenta which may subsequently affect fetal growth.

'Caffeine can also cross the placenta readily, and because caffeine clearance slows as pregnancy progresses, caffeine accumulation may occur in fetal tissues.'

The researchers worry people are unaware of how much caffeine their tea contains.

Tea has less caffeine than a cup of coffee, but the exact amount depends on the brew time, water temperature and type of tea.

The Department of Nutritional Services reports a cup of black tea contains anywhere between 23 and 110mg of caffeine.

The World Health Organization recommends women consume less than 300mg of caffeine a day during pregnancy. Whereas the NHS and American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists advise no more than 200mg.

However, the most recent research suggests this is too high, according to Dr De-Kun Li, a scientist at the Kaiser Permanente Northern California division of research in Oakland.

He was not involved in the study, but found a link between caffeine consumption in pregnancy and miscarriage in a 2015 study.

'Epidemiological findings based on self-reported caffeine consumption are usually not very precise. Thus, any cutoffs chosen by ACOG and WHO can only be considered as rough reference points,' Dr Li said.

'Biologically, it is unlikely that 300mg is risky while 299mg is safe. The message to women I would prefer would be "the less the better".

'My advice would be try to reduce as much as you can, if you can totally quit that would be even better.'

ACOG added it reviews all of its recommendations every 18-to-24 months, includes all new research in its reviews and makes adjustments to recommendations as needed.

In 2008, a trial of 1,063 pregnant women in San Francisco showed that those who consumed at least 200mg of caffeine every day have a 25 per cent risk of miscarriage compared with a 12 per cent risk for those who avoided the stimulant, which is also found in soft drinks and chocolate.

Another study found caffeine consumption during pregnancy appears to promote childhood obesity.

====== 1388 ========

EXPERTS RECONSTRUCT A RARE 3KG ANGLO SAXON HELMET

Experts have reconstructed a rare Anglo Saxon helmet made out of steel, leather, gold that was worn by a military General 1,300 years ago.

The reconstruction will go on public display for the first time alongside a hoard of Anglo-Saxon gold found in Staffordshire.

The collection - the largest ever find of Anglo-Saxon gold - was unearthed on farmland by a metal detector enthusiast in 2009 and later valued at £3.3 million ($4.2bn).

Scroll down for video

Experts have reconstructed a rare Anglo Saxon helmet made out of steel, leather, gold that was worn by a military General 1,300 years ago

WHO WERE THE ANGLO SAXONS? The Anglo Saxons were a people who inhabited Great Britain from the 5th Century AD. They were made up of Germanic tribes who emigrated from continental Europe, as well as indigenous Britons who adopted their cultural practices. The Anglo Saxons were fierce warriors, and tribes often battled one another for territory. They ruled over Britain from 500 years until 1066 when they were conquered by the Normans.

Fragments used as a base for the reconstruction are from a high status helmet likely worn by a military General.

Heavily damaged before it was buried, the treasure - believed to be more than 1,300-years-old - contained more than 4,000 fragments.

Helmets of this period are extremely rare and there are only five other Anglo-Saxon helmets known.

The Anglo Saxons were a people who inhabited Great Britain from the 5th Century AD.

They were made up of Germanic tribes who emigrated from continental Europe, as well as indigenous Britons who adopted their cultural practices.

They ruled over Britain from 500 years until 1066 when they were conquered by the Normans.

The Staffordshire hoard was discovered near the small town of Hammerwich in 2009.

After experts studied the pieces, they discovered a third of these came from the single high-status helmet, and proceeded to build a picture of the original.

Helmets of this period are extremely rare and there are only five other Anglo-Saxon helmets known. The Anglo Saxons were a people who inhabited Great Britain from the 5th Century AD

Fragments used as a base for the reconstruction are from a high status helmet likely worn by a military General. Heavily damaged before it was buried, the treasure - believed to be more than 1,300-years-old - contained more than 4,000 fragments

They then spent 18 months using cutting-edge technology and ancient craft techniques to create two identical replica helmets.

They will now go on public display from November 23.

Weighing in at three kilograms each, the helmets are made out of steel, leather, gold, and silver plated bronze and copper.

A spokeswoman from Birmingham Museums Trust said substantial remains of just five other Anglo-Saxon helmets exist, along with fragments of a handful more - making them very rare.

Pictured is metal detailing on the reconstructed helmet, which took a team of 10 experts 18 months to complete. The collection - the largest ever find of Anglo-Saxon gold - was unearthed on farmland by a metal detector enthusiast in 2009 and later valued at £3.3 million ($4.2bn)

The Staffordshire hoard was discovered near the small town of Hammerwich in 2009. After experts studied the pieces, they discovered a third of these came from the single high-status helmet, and proceeded to build a picture of the original

'The quality, style and decoration of the Staffordshire Hoard helmet make it fit for a king, but we cannot be sure who it belonged to,' she said.

'The original helmet was thoroughly, even violently, torn apart before burial, possibly more than was necessary to dismantle it for functional reasons.'

One replica helmet will go on permanent display at Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery, and the other at the Potteries Museum and Art Gallery in Stoke-on-Trent.

Researchers spent 18 months using cutting-edge technology and ancient craft techniques to create two identical replica helmets

They will now go on public display from November 23. Weighing in at three kilograms each, the helmets are made out of steel, leather, gold, and silver plated bronze and copper

A spokeswoman from Birmingham Museums Trust said substantial remains of just five other Anglo-Saxon helmets exist, along with fragments of a handful more - making them very rare

====== 1389 ========

SHARE MORE DNA TO PROTECT YOUR PRIVACY IN DATABASES

A group of medical researchers has proposed that the best way to protect genetic information is for people to deposit their DNA into a huge database.

Currently, the genetic information of millions of people is stored on a vast number of public and private databases, and experts are concerned that this DNA data is not secure from government meddling.

The team says that creating a giant database would enhance people's protection by making the system more regulated.

Many people have grown concerned about the privacy of information gathered by consumer genetic-testing websites like 23andMe and MyHeritage.

A recent study concluded that only two per cent of the population needs to have done a DNA test for nearly everyone's genetic makeup to be exposed.

At the moment, public DNA databases can find you even if you have never shared your DNA.

Scroll down for video

A group of medical researchers have proposed that the best way to protect genetic information is for more people to deposit their DNA into a larger database. Many people are concerned about the privacy of their data gathered by genetic-testing websites (Stock image)

The researchers, from Vanderbilt University Medical Center for Genetic Privacy, say that having a bigger library would hold a more limited set of data than that which is pulled from consumer testing reports.

Public and private databases can grant access to the genetic details of millions of people without court permission.

The Golden State Killer, who murdered 13 people in California between 1975 and 1986, was caught when investigators used DNA to search for possible suspects.

An old DNA sample from a crime scene matched with the DNA of the killer’s relatives in public databases which led to him.

This was a major breakthrough for police but led people to question who else has access to our genetic information.

Another example of unease is if a hostile government starts tracking down protesters via their saliva from a rally.

Last June, over 92 million account details from genealogy and DNA testing service MyHeritage were found on a private server.

The breach occurred last year when a file named myheritage was found containing email addresses and hashed passwords.

However the DNA data and banking information were kept in a separate system.

The team says that creating a giant database would enhance people's protection by making the system more regulated. They say that having a bigger library would be more regulated and hold a more limited set of data than consumer testing reports (Stock image)

WHAT IS THE GENETIC INFORMATION NON-DISCRIMINATION ACT? The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 (GINA) is a federal law that protects individuals from genetic discrimination in health insurance and employment. The genetic information protected by the law includes family health history, the results of genetic tests, the use of genetic counselling. GINA makes it against the law for health insurers to request, require, or use genetic information to make decisions about: • Your eligibility for health insurance • Your health insurance premium, contribution amounts, or coverage terms In addition, GINA makes it against the law for your health insurer to: • Consider family health history or a genetic test result as a pre‐existing condition • Ask or require that you have a genetic test • Use any genetic information they do have to discriminate against you, even if they did not mean to collect it. Credit: GINA

Many privacy experts are also concerned that the only law currently covering genetic privacy is the Genetic Information Non-Discrimination Act.

The act protects consumers from employers and insurance companies accessing information on DNA to avoid bias.

But, the genetic information space is still unsteady legislative territory.

The problem, some sceptics say, is that consumers are taking these companies at their word when they state that protecting customers' privacy is their highest priority.

Ultimately, when you sign up to do a genealogy DNA test, you're giving companies access to and guardianship of your genealogical information and the raw data for your entire DNA that, by default, you may then grant third parties to use for ongoing scientific research.

In the U.S, state and federal databases hold the genetic data of more than 16.5 million people who have been arrested or convicted of a crime.

Researcher James Hazel says that data collected from law-enforcement sources disproportionately exposes people of colour.

He also made the point that it's already too late for people to prevent mass exposure.

'Having a more complete repository would offer better privacy protections.

'Such a database could hold a more limited set of genetic information than the data that can now be culled from consumer-testing reports.

'This is a very provocative proposal,' he said, 'but it all comes down to spurring a debate about the current system.'

Experts have previously raised concerns over privacy issues regarding DNA databases.

====== 1390 ========

FREEDOM FOR FACEBOOK USED SOCIAL NETWORK'S ADS AGAINST IT BY BUYING UP SPONSORED ADS

An activist group has launched an ad campaign onFacebook asking the social network's own employees to come forward with tips.

Freedom From Facebook, a group campaigning for stricter regulations on social media, launched the ads this week in an attempt to get Facebook's employees to leak incriminating information.

The advertisement read: 'Are you worried about what's happening inside Facebook?

'Share your concerns confidentially and anonymously.'

It comes after Mark Zuckerberg reportedly told employees during an hour-long question-and-answer session on Friday that he would not hesitate to fire anyone who spoke to the media.

Freedom From Facebook launched the ads this week in an attempt to get Facebook's employees to leak information

The advert was put in place to 'offer Facebook employees who feel uncomfortable with recent events to voice their concerns,' NBC News reported.

Carli Kientzle, a spokesperson for the group, confirmed they were able to target potential whistleblowers using profile information from those who listed Facebook as their employer.

Employees who then see the advertisement will be able to 'anonymously' send information to Freedom From Facebook through the group's website or an encrypted email address.

It is, however, unknown whether or not the social media giant has been controlling who can see the sponsored advertisement.

The sponsored advert was put in place to 'offer Facebook employees who feel uncomfortable with recent events to voice their concerns' (file photo)

Freedom From Facebook has also recently clashed with the social network following a report revealing Facebook had hired a public relations firm to discredit its critics.

Facebook admitted on Wednesday that a top executive had hired the firm, Definers Public Affairs, to attack George Soros and undermine critics by publicizing their relationship with the billionaire philanthropist.

Definers Public Affairs sent documents to the media linking Mr Soros to Freedom from Facebook through Colours of Change, a nonprofit that backs the opposition group and is funded by the billionaire.

Facebook has since announced it has terminated its relationship with the firm - with Zuckerberg and the company's chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg admitting they should have known more about its operations.

====== 1391 ========

MOST POPULAR NEWS STORIES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1392 ========

APPLE'S IPAD PRO: THE TABLET THAT MAKES TECHNOLOGY DISAPPEAR

Apple’s iPad Pro has long been the benchmark for tablets, blurring the lines of what constitutes a computer.

The new version is, quite simply, the best tablet out there - and for a lot of people, probably the best computer out there.

The redesign makes the already great iPad Pro faster and easier to use than almost every other device out there, be it a laptop, desktop or phone.

Scroll down for video

Apple's new iPad is blazingly fast, gorgeous to look at, and quite simply the best tablet out there - and for a lot of people, probably the best computer out there.

IPAD PRO SPECS Comes in 11-inch (starting at $799) and 12.9-inch (starting at $999) versions Liquid Retina display Face ID A12X Bionic chip USB-C connector 1 Terabye of storage 8-core CPU and 7-core GPU 5.9mm thin 25 percent lighter than previous models

It’s a deceptively brilliant piece of design - albeit one with a high price tag.

Apple has long said its ambition is for technology to disappear, and the new iPad really is the clearest indication yet of how that might work.

The stunning screen is the star, now going edge to edge, making picking up the tablet like picking up a sheet of glass.

The all screen display is bright, colourful, and rich, and for the first time covers almost all the front of the display, with just thin bezels.

Not having a home button does take a few moments to get used to, but for anyone coming from the latest iPhone, it’s already second nature.

There's still a slight bezel, just wide enough for Apple to hide the camera sensors it needs for FaceID to work. And work it does work brilliantly, most of the time.

The newly designed pencil is also now far more useful as you can magnetically store and charge it on the side of the iPad, with a satisfying click

Apple's redesigned Pencil is definitely more attractive to the average user

I found it far more reliable than even the iPhone, and given people tend to use their iPad at weird angles (this really is the perfect machine for watching Netflix in bed on), this is a good thing.

The only slight gripe is that, as a left hander, when the iPad is in its keyboard case, quite often my arm would obstruct the camera, throwing up a ‘camera is covered’ message.

However, the iPad quickly tries again, and nearly always worked perfectly on the second attempt.

One other interesting point about the new design is that, for most of the time, it's hard to tell what way up you’re holding the iPad.

However, the only time I found this a problem was occasionally using the iPad in bed to read, and finding the camera at the bottom was covered.

One interesting point about the new screen and edge to edge design is that it makes the larger size, with a 12.9inch screen, far more manageable - I struggled with the older version to travel with it as it was just a little too big.

The new version however, feels smaller - although to be honest, I do still prefer the smaller one, but then I tend to use my iPad for browsing, watching video and reading, rather than anything more high powered.

Apple has even improved its keyboard case, adding in protection for the back of the iPad, and two positions for the screen - although it does add a little bit more bulk.

For anyone using an iPad for work, however, the larger screen is a godsend, and makes everything from drawing to emails a dream, particularly with the ability to split the screen.

Apple’s general thinning down of the design does mean the new iPad feels very different, and more like the sheet of glass Apple is aiming for.

It's easier to carry without a case, and feels safe and secure - more so than the previously, curved edge version, I found.

The new iPad pros are 5.9mm thin, making them 25% less volume than the previous version.

The newly designed pencil is also now far more useful as you can magnetically store and charge it on the side of the iPad, with a satisfying click. It’s definitely going to make the Pencil more attractive to the average user - although do bear it mind it’ll probably fall off it you put it into your bag still attached.

There are also changes to power, with USB-C now being used to recharge. This isn’t a problem if you’ve already got a recent Macbook, and I was able to use by existing laptop charger (although obviously there’s a charger in the box anyway).

USB-C also allows you to plug the iPad into a monitor easily, and this opens up whole new ways of using it - for instance, video and photo editing can be done on a bigger screen, using the iPad screen as a control panel.

However, one omission is the headphone socket - which is a shame, but also seemed pretty inevitable given the same move with the iPhone.

One interesting point about the new screen and edge to edge design is that it makes the larger size, with a 12.9inch screen, far more manageable - I struggled with the older version to travel with it as it was just a little too big.

For professional apps, it once again blurs the line between tablet and ‘real’ computer.

The processing speed of the new Pros is astonishing. Apple boasts they are now faster than most desktop and laptop PCs on the market, and it really shows.

Some of the demos Apple showed off were just jaw dropping, and you get the impression the sheer power of the new A12X powered the device will revolutionise creative apps.

This can already be seen in the full version of Photoshop Adobe has demoed, along with some of the games coming the the new device.

The processing speed of the new Pros is astonishing. Apple boasts they are now faster than most desktop and laptop PCs on the market, and it really shows.

The one thing holding back the iPad is software - in the short term, at least, is softare. There’s a huge amount of potential here, and one gets the feeling developers will take a while to take advantage of the processing power.

iOS itself also feels a little stale, particularly the app layout, which leaves huge amounts of unused space - but if the rumours are to believed, iOS 13 could address this.

Apple has even improved its keyboard case, adding in protection for the back of the iPad, and two positions for the screen - although it does add a little bit more bulk.

Crucially, the new Pro is enough of a boost in speed and design for existing users to want to upgrade, and it does feel like a big step forward for the iPad.

It is, it must be said, also one of the most expensive tablets out there, and rather like Apple's XS, feels like a luxury, no expenses spared device

Overall, the new iPads really do blur the line between devices - and for the majority of users, there really is no reason to buy a traditional laptop over the iPad anymor

====== 1393 ========

GOOGLE HOME HUB REVIEW: THE SMALL SMART DISPLAY WITH BIG POTENTIAL

When it comes to smart displays, Google is slightly late to the game.

First, it was beaten to the market by rivals like Amazon’s Echo Show. Then, its own voice assistant appeared in touchscreen devices made by third parties such as Lenovo and JBL.

But Google has finally put a stake in the ground with the Home Hub - its first branded smart display that functions as part photo frame, part control center for all your smart home devices.

Scroll down for video

Google has finally put a stake in the ground with the Home Hub - its first on-brand smart display that functions as part photo frame, part control center for all your smart home devices

GOOGLE HOME HUB SPECS 7in LCD screen Google Assistant built-in Runs on Google's Cast platform WiFi and Bluetooth connectivity Comes in Sand, Aqua, Chalk and Charcoal

It’s easy to use and, with a price tag of $149, is likely the right price for a lot of people looking to introduce a smart display into their household.

The Home Hub is pretty compact, sporting a 7in screen, but that makes it easier to fit into small spaces on your bedside table, or kitchen countertop.

As with other Google Home devices, it’s nice to look at, too - the screen has rounded corners and is on top of a fabric-covered base, making it appear less harsh and plasticy.

Despite its size, you can’t really miss the screen from far away, given its crisp colors and sharp display.

The device is also equipped with an ambient light sensor, called Ambient EQ, which automatically adjusts the screen’s brightness based on the time of day.

That means it’s easier on the eyes if you’ve got the Home Hub next to your bed - no glaring blue screen here.

Google gives you plenty of options to customize your Home Hub.

One of the standout features is the ability to connect it with your Google Photos account, so that it can show a rotating slideshow of your favorite pictures.

As with other Google devices, Home Hub is nice to look at - the screen has rounded corners and it’s situated on top of a fabric-covered base, making it appear less harsh and plasticy

Google put its AI smarts to work for this feature.

It’s trained to recognize faces so that users can ask their Home Hub to display photos of a particular person, or from a certain place and time.

You can also ask the Home Hub when or where a photo was taken and it will tell you.

I found myself less intrigued by the Home Hub’s digital photo frame capabilities and more excited by the ability to connect it to my existing Google Home account. This allows the device to quickly ingest everything it needs to know about me - like my search history, services I use, and more.

Just like other Google Assistant devices, it can learn to distinguish your voice from someone else’s.

One note on voice recognition, however - make sure your Home Hub is located far away enough from your other Google Home devices, to prevent several devices from talking to you at once.

Another feature lets users set up personalized routines.

For example, the Home Hub can be trained in such a way that if users say ‘Hey Google, good morning,’ it will trigger a whole set of skills, like bringing up your calendar events for the day, news stories, the weather forecast and commute times, which is pretty handy.

Google's new range: The firm unveiled the Home Hub, Pixel Slate and Pixel 3 at a New York event. It boasted AI technology is the core of each device, and hopes to gain ground in the hardware market on rivals like Apple, Samsung, Amazon and others

Some info is easier to digest when you’re able to see it visually, like a map of suggested routes to get to the office, as well as recipe instructions, which Google Assistant will read aloud

Users can already do this with Google Home devices, but the addition of a screen definitely helps.

I found that some information is much easier to digest when you’re able to see it visually, like a map of suggested routes to get to the office, as well as recipe instructions, which Google Assistant will read aloud and scroll through for you.

While the Home Hub is a great hands-free device to help you get through your day, an entertainment center it is not.

It can play content from Google’s own video platform, YouTube, but it doesn’t have access to streaming platforms like Netflix, Amazon Prime Video or Hulu. The Home Hub also plays live TV broadcasts, but that requires a YouTube TV subscription.

That said, the device is conveniently integrated with Spotify.

HOW DOES THE HOME HUB'S AMBIENT EQ SENSOR WORK? Google has equipped its Home Hub smart display with a high-tech sensor that helps the display detect when day turns into night. Called Ambient EQ, it may look like a camera at the top of the device, but it's not. The sensor automatically adjusts the screen’s brightness based on the time of day. That means it’s easier on the eyes if you’ve got the Home Hub next to your bed - no glaring blue screen here. Google has equipped its Home Hub smart display with a high-tech sensor, called Ambient EQ, that helps the display detect when day turns into night 'When it's time for bed, Hub knows to dim the screen for a good night’s sleep,' Google explained. And in the morning, the screen will automatically brighten to help wake you up. The Google Home Hub is the first Google device to feature this sensor. Users can turn it off or adjust it any time in the device's settings.

However, I wouldn’t recommend using the Home Hub as your main speaker system.

The single speaker on the back of the device is sufficiently loud, but definitely made better if you have other Google Home speakers to sync it with.

Google recently introduced a new smart home control center that lets users manage all their smart home devices on a single screen - that means your lights, thermostats, security cameras and smart locks. Users just swipe down from the top of the Home Hub to access it.

With so many smart devices throughout the home, it can be annoying to manage them all using separate apps.

The Home Hub aims to simplify that with the control center, which I found to be one of its best features.

It can’t control all your devices, such as Apple TVs or Sonos smart speakers, but I’m sure it will get smarter with future software updates.

With so many smart devices, it can be annoying to manage them all using separate apps. The Home Hub aims to simplify that with the control center, which is one of its best features

You probably aren’t too concerned about your privacy if you’ve already introduced a Google Home or Amazon Echo into your home.

Still, Google seems to have made the Home Hub with privacy in mind, opting to leave a camera (and video calls, by extension) off the device entirely.

This is a nice change from devices like the Echo Show or the recently launched Facebook Portal, which feature high-quality cameras and feel a tad intrusive as a result.

While there are certainly ways it can improve, the Home Hub is a solid stab at a Google-branded smart display.

It’s thoughtfully designed and does almost everything a device that’s essentially a voice-activated tablet should do.

That’s probably enough for average users and tecchies alike to want to introduce the device to their home.

====== 1394 ========

IPHONE XR MAKES THE RIGHT TRADE-OFFS FOR A CHEAPER PRICE

Apple offers you a simple trade-off with its new iPhone XR, the middlebrow cousin to the top-of-the-line iPhone XS.

On one hand, the XR lacks the high-resolution screen and dual-lens camera found on the XS.

On the other, you'd save at least $250 and still get most of the other cutting-edge features found on the more expensive model.

Scroll down for video

This Monday, Oct. 22, 2018, photo shows from left, the iPhone XS, iPhone XR, and the iPhone XS Max in New York. The XR falls between the top-of-the-line XS models in size, but is lower in price.

Based on several days of testing, it looks like Apple made the right cost-cutting trade-offs with the XR, which starts selling Friday for about $750.

The standard XS starts at about $1,000; its supersized cousin, the XS Max, goes for $100 more.

The XR falls between the XS and the Max in size.

WHAT THE REVIEWS SAY New York Times: The iPhone XR's 6.1-inch Super Retina LCD is one of the brighter and more colorful smartphone displays out there. It's just not OLED-great. The Verge: The display on the iPhone XR is… fine. It's fine! TechCrunch: Yes, the portrait mode works. No, it's not as good as the iPhone XS. Yes, I miss having a zoom lens. All of those things are true and easily the biggest reason I won’t be buying an iPhone XR. Wall Street Journal: The XR has the longest battery life of any iPhone I've tested in recent memory. On paper, the XS is a more premium product than the XR, but I don't know who I would recommend the XS to. CNBC: I think the iPhone XR is the iPhone that most people should buy. It gives you the best bang for your buck.

Its screen is about 7 percent larger than the XS and 12 percent smaller than the Max.

But the XR is closer in width to larger Phones such as the Max and older Plus models, so anyone upgrading from an iPhone 7 or 8 will have to get used to a new grip.

As with the XS, the XR's display extends close to the phone's edges, translating to 45 percent more screen space than the iPhone 8 and 6 percent more than the 8 Plus.

The XR and the XS both use facial recognition to unlock the phone, and both have a notch at the top for sensors, similar to shades on a car's windshield. The notch will take getting used to.

The most affordable handset in Apple’s new line-up, the iPhone XR. The $749 'budget' device has an LCD display and comes in six colors

Speaker quality on the XR and the XS were comparable, and the mics on all new models offer stereo recording for the first time.

The phone displays, however, are different, and those disparities can make a difference. The screens on both XS models have better contrast and more vibrant colors than the standard LCD screen on the XR.

iPhone XR vs iPhone XS vs XS Max Screen Size: Display Type: Processor: Water Resistance: Battery Life: Fast Charge: Wireless Charge: 3D Touch Display: Dual Cameras: Optical Zoom: FaceID: Weight: Software: Price: Colours: iPhone XR 6.1-inch LCD A12 Bionic IP67 Up to 15 hours Yes Yes No No No Yes 194g (6.84 oz) iOS 12 $749 (£749) Yellow, White, Coral, Black, Blue, and Product Red iPhone XS 5.8-inch OLED A12 Bionic IP68 Up to 12 hours Yes Yes Yes Dual 12MP Lens Yes. 2x Yes 177g (6.24oz) iOS 12 $999 (£999) Gold, Space Grey, Silver iPhone XS Max 6.5-inch OLED A12 Bionic IP68 Up to 13 hours Yes Yes Yes Dual 12MP Lens Yes. 2x Yes 208g (7.34 oz) iOS 12 $1099 (£1099) Gold, Space Grey, Silver

Autumn leaves in the cartoon 'The Secret Lives of Pets' stand out more, while greater hints of orange appeared in a space drama's rocket exhaust flames.

Whites are whiter, making the screen appear brighter even though it's not.

This Monday, Oct. 22, 2018, photo shows the iPhone XR, left, that has a single lens, and the iPhone XS Max that has two lenses, in New York. (AP Photo/Richard Drew)

The XR screen also falls short of full high definition, unlike the XS displays, although it can display video at 720p quality. Apple says that with LCD screens, higher resolution drains the battery faster, a trade-off that's minimal with the XS because its screen doesn't need a backlight.

That said, the differences are often hard to spot, even with the phones side by side. Where quality really matters, you'll probably want a bigger screen such as a tablet or a TV anyway.

Although the Max has the largest battery in an iPhone, the XR was typically on par with or exceeded the Max in battery performance when viewing video, at least at lower or medium brightness. In any case, either phone should give you enough battery life for routine use.

This Monday, Oct. 22, 2018, photo shows from left the iPhone 8, iPhone 8 Plus, and the iPhone XR in New York. The new XR phone has a larger display and loses the home button to make room for more screen. (AP Photo/Richard Drew)

Cameras improve with each generation, and the new iPhones are no different. For many shots, the new iPhones blend four exposures rather than two, allowing for better lighting balance and more detail.

In some shots taken in suboptimal conditions - against direct sunlight - the XR still showed trees in dimly lit areas, while last year's iPhone X produced pitch back. The new cameras also have better focus and low-light capabilities.

What's missing in the XR is a second rear lens for double the magnification. Instead, the XR uses software zoom, which reduces quality.

Philip W. Schiller, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Marketing of Apple, speaks about the new Apple iPhone XR at an Apple Inc product launch event at the Steve Jobs Theater in Cupertino

Of course, the standard iPhone 7 and 8 didn't have a second lens either, although their Plus models did, as did the iPhone X.

Both XS models also have two lenses. Despite lacking a second lens, the XR lets you blur backgrounds in some shots, a feature many phones are now getting. The XR does this with software, though it works only with people in the foreground, while the XS can do statues and monuments.

Two more points of comparison. The XS has slightly better water resistance - good to a depth of 2 meters (2.2 yards), compared with just 1 meter on the XR. But the XR offers a budget storage-upgrade option: $50 for 128 gigabytes (up from 64 gigabytes in the base model).

Both XS phones also start at 64 gigabytes, but their cheapest upgrade is $150 for 256 gigabytes.

The only knock is the XR's size. Though it's fine for people with adequate pockets or bags, not everyone wants a phone that's nearly as wide as the Max or the Plus. Perhaps Apple will one day design a smaller XR and revive a trend of offering both standard and larger versions for each major model.

====== 1395 ========

THE PIXEL 3 OUTSMARTS THE IPHONE (IF YOU TRUST GOOGLE WITH ALL YOUR INFORMATION)

While Google's new $800 Pixel 3 handset may not be groundbreaking in terms of software, it really is one smart phone.

AI seems to permeate every part of its software, from the ability to answer calls for you to being able to almost perfectly predict your morning commute.

It's a great phone, with one caveat - to get the best out of it, you need to let Google collect a lot of data about you.

Scroll down for video

It's a great phone, with every feature you could ask for, from wireless charging and a superb camera to a sleek design - and thankfully the smaller model forgoes the horrific notch on the bigger Pixel XL

We tried out the base Pixel 3, the smaller of the two new handsets Google announced.

It's a great phone, with every feature you could ask for, from wireless charging and a superb camera to a sleek design - and thankfully the smaller model forgoes the horrific notch on the bigger Pixel XL.

One of the most useful features, particularly for American owners plagued by robocalls, is a call screening feature.

When a mystery call comes in, just hit 'Screen call', and Google's voice assistant takes over and asks for a name and purpose of the call.

Transcribed responses appear in real time, so you can decide whether to pick up.

You can even request more information by tapping buttons such as 'Tell me more.'

While great in concept, the reality is a little disappointing - I often found it quicker to take the call and hang up.

However, one can definitely see the potential, if the system as able to screen calls without involving the user.

The Google Pixel 3, left, and Google Pixel 3 XL, and wireless charging stand in New York. Google's new Pixel 3 phone plays catch-up with Apple and Samsung on hardware. It's really designed to showcase Google's advances in software, particularly in artificial intelligence.

The cameras on the back of the Google Pixel 3 XL, left, and Google Pixel 3 smartphones: AI seems to permeate every part of its software, from the ability to answer calls for you to being able to almost perfectly predict your morning commute.

It is, however, also great for annoying friends and family by fobbing them off with a robotic voice (sorry mum!).

The camera also has some smart features, such as Google Lens, which can extract numbers from business cards, translate menus and even try to identify anything you point the camera at.

The new camera can even can capture multiple pictures to choose from

FILE- In this Tuesday, Oct. 9, 2018, file photo New Google Pixel 3 smartphones are displayed in New York. Google's new Pixel 3 phone plays catch-up with Apple and Samsung on hardware. It's really designed to showcase Google's advances in software, particularly in artificial intelligence. (AP Photo/Richard Drew, File)

It can also monitor your face, waiting for a smile of funny face to take the perfect selfie, and for regular shots, can capture multiple pictures to choose from.

It also boasts wireless charging, and placing the phone on an optional $79 Pixel Stand charging station, and it can display a rotating set of images from an album you choose, or pick what it thinks are your best snaps.

HOW GOOGLE'S PIXEL 3 CAN ANSWER THE PHONE FOR YOU Gogole boasts its AI will allow the Pixel 3 to answer calls for you. 'First, starting out in English in the U.S., Pixel 3's on-device AI helps you screen phone calls and avoid spam calls. 'Imagine you're at dinner with family or in a meeting at work and a call from an unknown caller comes in. 'Just tap on 'Screen call' to find out who's calling and why, as well as other information (as prompted by you). 'You'll immediately see a transcript of the caller's responses so that you can then decide whether to pick up, respond by tapping a quick reply (e.g., 'I'll call you back later'), or mark the call as spam and dismiss. The call screen feature allows the phone to answer calls for you when telemarketers call. The user is able to see the call transcribed in real-time on the device's screen 'Processing the call details on-device means these experiences are fast, private to you, and use up less battery.' Pixel users in the U.S. will also be the first to get access to an experimental new Google Assistant feature, powered by Duplex technology, which helps users complete real-world tasks over the phone, like calling a restaurant to book a table. This feature will initially be available later this year in New York, Atlanta, Phoenix and the San Francisco Bay Area to help people book restaurant reservations and will roll out to other U.S. cities in the future. However, Google addressed the concenrs it coudl fool humans. 'As we develop new calling technologies, we believe it’s critical that we help people understand the context of the conversation. 'We’ll disclose to businesses receiving the call that they're speaking to an automated system, and we have developed controls to protect against spam and abuse, as well as the ability for a business to opt out of receiving calls. 'For Call Screen, we will also let the caller know that a screening service is being used.'

Soon, you'll be able to let Google's facial-recognition technology just pick out photos of your family, including new shots as you take them (though not in the European Union, where privacy regulations are tighter.)

The stand also has some smart features, offering to set your alarms before bed.

It the morning , it can show you how your commute is going, and displays this on the always on screen, a hugely useful, if creepy, feature.

Overall, the Pixel 3 is a superb handset.

It's fast, sleek and everything a flagship device should be.

Pair that with Google's smartest version of Android , and it really does give the iPhone XS a run for its money - albeit with some lingering concerns of whether it has got a little too smart for its own good.

====== 1396 ========

IPHONE XS MAX: APPLE'S NEW HANDSET IS BIGGER AND BETTER IN EVERY WAY

The iPhone XS Max is the biggest phone Apple has ever made - and the most expensive.

With a 6.5inch OLED screen, there is no getting away from the fact its screen is huge - along with the $1099 price tag.

However, with the XS Max, Apple has done the seemingly impossible - made a big screen phone that feels like, well, a normal sized phone.

Scroll down for video

Apple's new iPhone XS and XS Max go on sale on Friday - and the biggest handset Apple has ever made if also its best. with the XS Max, Apple has done the seemingly impossible - made a big screen phone that feels like a normal sized phone

IPHONE XS MAX SPECS Display: 6.5-inch OLED screen Cost: From $1,099 (£1,099) Ships: September 21 Battery life: 1.5 hours longer than the iPhone X Cameras: Dual 12MP rear-facing, dual 7MP front-facing Powered by: A12 Bionic chip Memory: 64GB, 256GB or 512GB Colours: Gold, silver and space grey Waterproof rating: Up to 2 meters (6.5ft) deep for several minutes Improved augmented reality tools

Picking up the handset is a real ‘oh’ moment - by making almost the entire front of the phone screen, Apple has crammed that giant screen into a handset the same size as the previous ‘Plus’ model.

By stretching the OLED screen to the edge of the device, it means that for owners of any of the previous plus models, the XS Max is like going home - and for everyone else, the phone feels way smaller than you expect.

The curved edges and glass back, while something of a fingerprint magnet, particularly in the new gold colour we've been using, make this a phone that feels great to pick up and use.

There is, sadly, still a notch, but as owners of the X know, it's relatively easy to live with, and you’ll soon forget it's there, even on the giant 6.5inch screen.

While the screen is the first thing you'll notice, in fact, everything about the Max, and its smaller brother, the XS, has been improved from last year's Phone X.

They both boast a faster and improved dual camera system, and the first 7-nanometer chip in a smartphone, the dramatically named Bionic A12, which has a ‘next-generation Neural Engine’.

This new A12 bionic processor in the iPhone does the image signal processing every time you snap a photo, and the iPhone combines those functions of the processor with the neural engine for a frankly astonishing whopping 1 trillion operations per photo.

Apple says the new camera uses multiple technologies — like faster sensors, an enhanced ISP, and advanced algorithms — to create a 'smart HDR' setting, which brings more highlight and shadow detail to your photos. As you can see, it seems to work, producing great shots.

The camera sensor itself has also got an overhaul, with deeper and larger pixels for improved color fidelity and better low-light photos.

Combined, this allows Apple to do some pretty smart stuff, such as Smart HDR, which takes multiple pictures, analyzes all the photos, selects the best portions of each, and then combines them to create an optimal version of what you’re trying to capture.

The camera is incredibly impressive, and Apple talks about it using the incredible power of the firm's chips to carry out 'computational photography'.

THE IPHONE XR: A SUPERB PHONE IN A SMALLER SIZE While much of this review focuses on the Max version of the XS, there is of course also the smaller 5.8inch screen version. Apart from the screen size, its almost identical, and is perfect for those who don't want the eyeball blowing 6.5inch screen of the Max. It's the same stunning screen, processor and camera updates, just in a smaller package, and while it may be tough for owners of the X to justify an upgrade, those who held off as the X was so new and different from previous phones can rest assured that while the X was a great phone, the XS really has had every flaw removed.

What this means is that anyone with no photography skill whatsoever, such as myself, can create stunning shots easily using new features such as an update to the popular portrait mode.

Known as bokeh, this lets you change the depth of field after you've shot your picture, with incredible results.

It's highly intuitive to use with a slider, and great fun - and a perfect example of just how Apple can improve photography.

There’s also faster Face ID, wider stereo sound, that new gold finish, and for the first time, dual SIM capabilities (although they won’t be available until later this year).

The camera on the XS has received a big boost, and its stunning - particularly in low light conditions. Pictured, a sunset in San Francisco.

From a hugely updated processor, to an updated camera and terrifying loud speakers, everything about the XS feels faster, snappier and better thought out than in any previous iPhone.

Part of this is also, of course, down to software, and Apple’s decision with iOS 12 to focus on performance and reliability over flashy new features has paid dividends.

This is the most solid, reliable version of iOS I’ve ever used, and for owners of older handsets, downloading it really is a no brainer - you’ll see everything from battery life to the general speed of your phone, even in older models, increase.

The camera on the XS has recieved a big boost, and its stunning - particularly in low light conditions.

However, it’s on the XS where iOS is really blazingly fast.

Whereas even on the iPhone X, tasks like FaceID, complex games and even portrait mode in photos could feel a little sluggish, on the Xs they are blazingly fast.

iPhone XR vs iPhone XS vs XS Max Screen Size: Display Type: Processor: Water Resistance: Battery Life: Fast Charge: Wireless Charge: 3D Touch Display: Dual Cameras: Optical Zoom: FaceID: Weight: Software: Price: Colours: iPhone XR 6.1-inch LCD A12 Bionic IP67 Up to 15 hours Yes Yes No No No Yes 194g (6.84 oz) iOS 12 $749 (£749) Yellow, White, Coral, Black, Blue, and Product Red iPhone XS 5.8-inch OLED A12 Bionic IP68 Up to 12 hours Yes Yes Yes Dual 12MP Lens Yes. 2x Yes 177g (6.24oz) iOS 12 $999 (£999) Gold, Space Grey, Silver iPhone XS Max 6.5-inch OLED A12 Bionic IP68 Up to 13 hours Yes Yes Yes Dual 12MP Lens Yes. 2x Yes 208g (7.34 oz) iOS 12 $1099 (£1099) Gold, Space Grey, Silver

FaceID feels dramatically faster, and although I've only been using the phone for a few days, I can say it has been improved significantly - even first thing in the morning, where previously I’d struggle, seems more reliable (apparently I’m not a morning person even when it comes to facial recognition).

Apple also revealed the iPhone will support dual SIM cards for the first time.

It will use Apple’s eSIM, a built in electronic sim card that works alongside the primary sim card, and Apple said it will be available later this year.

The Max really is the biggest iPhone Apple has ever made

But it’s hard to get away from the screen.

The curved design means that in the flesh, it’s incredibly easy to pick up and handle - and absolutely stunning to look at.

That screen is sharp and incredibly bright, and the phone (and even the still present notch) are almost invisible, making this the closest thing yet to Apple’s ‘all screen’ vision.

While many users liked the smaller size of the iPhone X when it was released last year, the Max does the seemingly impossibly - making a big screen phone that really doesn’t feel like a big screen phone.

Picking up the handset is a real ‘oh’ moment - by making almost the entire front of the phone screen, Apple has crammed that giant screen into a handset the same size as the previous ‘Plus’ model, by stretching the LED screen to the edge of the device.

It’s big enough that you feel you could actually do far more, with emails and documents given a whole new lease of life (and infringing on the iPad a little, I would imagine).

So should you upgrade? Well, if you held off buying the X, and are a plus user, then absolutely.

The iPhone XS Max is probably the handset users of the Plus iPhones have been waiting for - and the extra screen real estate really does make this a phone that manages to balance a big screen with the usability and great feel iPhones are known for.

The smaller iPhone XS is a more complicated story, especially if you bought the X last year.

The updates to the camera, processor and other hardware are great - but by upgrading to iOS 12 you’ll see a performance boost to your existing handset that may well make it worth holding off - unless, like many people who bought the X, you absolutely have to have the latest and greatest.

For those on a budget, there’s also the complication of the cheaper, LCD screen iPhone Xr coming out

Overall, this is absolutely the best iPhone Apple has even made - but for $1099 you’d expect that.

For many, the Max is the iPhone they've been waiting for, and expect it to be a massive hit - and leave its smaller brother in the dust.

====== 1397 ========

THE $250 BEAUTY DEVICE THAT WORKS LIKE 'PHOTOSHOP FOR YOUR FACE'

Israeli beauty-tech firm Pollogen has launched a sleek new device that can give you a ‘super-facial’ in less than 10 minutes, without having to go to the salon.

The egg-shaped Geneo Personal is a handheld oxygenation system that taps into a process known as the Bohr Effect to give you clearer, fresher skin at home.

Instead of simply ‘rubbing air bubbles on your face,’ Geneo Personal stimulates oxygen from beneath the skin’s surface, according to the firm.

Pollogen unveiled the product in an Indiegogo campaign this month for a discounted $109 ahead of its official release next year, when it will retail at $249.

Israeli beauty-tech firm Pollogen has launched a sleek new device that can give you a ‘super-facial’ in less than 10 minutes, without having to go to the salon

The palm-sized Geneo Personal device is designed to deliver a high-quality, once-per-week facial treatment in just six minutes.

It releases carbon dioxide bubbles across your face as you exfoliate, lowering the PH levels at the surface of your skin.

This, in turn, draws oxygen up from beneath ‘to react and enrich the surface from within,’ the firm explains.

The carbon dioxide ‘stimulates a release of oxygen from your blood cells up to your skin’s surface,’ according to Pollogen.

‘This physiological response is what makes your facial skin really level up.’

Geneo Personal releases carbon dioxide bubbles across your face as you exfoliate, lowering the PH levels at the surface of your skin. This, in turn, draws oxygen up from beneath, according to the firm

Pollogen unveiled the product in an Indiegogo campaign this month for a discounted $109 ahead of its official release next year, when it will retail at $229. It's available in three pastel colors

The campaign has already raised more than $110,000 on Indiegogo, touting the ability to rejuvenate your face in a matter of minutes.

Geneo Personal is currently priced at $109 for early-birds, and comes in three pastel colors: powder pink, mint green, and white.

The device itself measures just under 5-inches long and weighs less than a pound. When it’s not in use, it fits into a discreet charging stand.

And, according to the firm, it will give you an Instagram-ready appearance – no filter necessary.

HANDS-ON WITH THE GENEO PERSONAL OXYGENATION DEVICE Dailymail.com tested out the Geneo Personal device in powder pink What strikes me first about Pollogen's latest device is its minimalist design. It fits perfectly in the palm of your hand, and the charging dock takes up little room on a dresser or counter-top. The device itself is straightforward to use, and to the joy of those who prefer instant gratification, the results are immediately apparent. I used Geneo Personal for about three weeks and was impressed by the effects on my skin. Unlike many other exfoliating devices which can leave your skin feeling raw, Geneo Personal provides a gentle treatment that cleans your face without making it feel as though it's been rubbed by sandpaper. The moment I was officially sold, however, came after a long weekend of camping. This device made for the most refreshing post-camping scrub I've ever had, leaving my face feeling fresh and dewy. The price-tag is undeniably hefty - especially for those who don't catch the Early Bird - but it's certainly a steal in the long-term if you consider the alternative of going out to get expensive facials at the salon.

‘It’s a 3-in-1 facial experience, because it Oxygenates, Exfoliates, and Nourishes your skin in just 6 minutes,’ said Sharon Ravic, CEO of Pollogen.

‘We put our face through a lot every day, exposing it to the sun’s harsh rays and air pollutants. It’s time to unlock the skin’s natural potential by raising the oxygen levels in our skin cells.

‘Throw out the brush heads and bring on the bubbles.’

Geneo Personal is expected to begin shipping February 2019.

====== 1398 ========

IOS 12 REVIEW: THE UPDATE THAT REALLY WILL IMPROVE YOUR PHONE

Apple has finally released iOS 12, the latest and greatest version of its operating system for iPhones an iPads.

Rather than cram in a plethora of new features, Apple has said the update is about boosting stability, with improvements in everything from FaceID and battery life.

And the approach has really paid off - this is the most stable, impressive version of iOS I've ever used, and an update I would recommend to everyone with a device capable of running it.

Scroll down for video

Apple has rolled out the latest version of its operating system to iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch models worldwide. Pictured is Apple's preview of the new software, dubbed iOS 12, on its website prior to launch

HOW TO INSTALL iOS 12 To install iOS 12, you must have a device running its predecessor, iOS 11. Once the update is available, head to your settings. Tap tap General, and then Software Update on your Apple device. You will need a WiFi connection and have to be connected to a charger if your battery is lower than 50 per cent.

In addition to iOS 12, Apple's latest Mac operating system, Mojave, is also now available, along with watchOS 5, the latest software for the Apple Watch, and tvOS for the Apple TV.

One of the first things you realise about iOS 12 is that, well, nothing has really changed.

There are some new apps such as Screen Time, a boost to Animoji and lots of smaller tweaks, but nothing major - and this is a really, really good thing.

What iOS 12 lacks in jaw dropping new features, it has in general stability and boosts to everything from battery life to app launching speeds.

It really is noticeable to the average users, and your phone feels rather like you've hit to turbo button at first.

On four-year-old smartphone models, like the iPhone 6, the software is expected to increase the speed of some operations by 70 per cent - but I found even on my iPhone X there was a very noticeable difference.

The new iOS 12, which has been available to beta users and developers since Apple's WWDC event in June, promises to pack a slew of improvements for iPhones and iPads from iOS 11

One of the new features that has garnered a lot of attention is Screen Time, which records how many hours you spend using your device.

As a self confessed iPhone (and iPad) addict, it's both incredibly useful and pretty terrifying - although the setting can be a little confusing at first.

But for those concerned about their own usage or that of their kids, its a great weapon in the fight against addiction.

iOS 12 has a new Screen Time feature that tells users exactly how much time they're using their device. It also comes with AR Kit 2, an updated version of Apple's AR platform for developers

HOW TO USE APPLE'S SCREEN TIME FEATURE Screen Time is a setting, and does not have its own dedicated to app. To use the feature in iOS 12, head to the Settings menu on your device. Scroll down to the new 'Screen Time' section. The tool is buried among your settings for Notifications and Sounds. Tap on Screen Time to see your device statistics. You can see how often you pick up your iOS device, which apps you're using, which apps are sending the most notifications, and other details. You can toggle the statistics between the last 24 hours and the last seven days.

Screen Time reveals the total number of hours spent on all your Apple devices, as well as a breakdown of the number of times you've picked up your handset.

The App Limits feature allows you to set a specific amount of time to be in an app, and a notification will display when a time limit is about to expire - although sadly Apple doesn't offer any recommendations.

Parents can access their child’s Activity Report right from their own iOS devices to understand where their child spends their time and can manage and set App Limits for them.

Another major annoyance for many users has been the sheer number of notifications you recieve, and iOS 12 helps dramatically by grouping them together, and letting you easily tweak the settings for each app.

Siri has also got a big boost, and there's a new Shortcuts app letting users customise their commands, which could be a huge boost boost once apps are updated to use it, as you'll be able to use Siri to ask questions like 'how is my commute looking' using CityMapper, for instance.

It also comes with AR Kit 2, an upgraded version of Apple's augmented reality platform for developers, that includes the ability to measure the size of real-world objects.

Having recently moved apartment, I found using the new Measure tool very useful, along with Ikea's great AR app.

Also included is a revamped Photos app which uses AI to find photos you'll like in new 'moments', new Animoji characters, and doznes of other small tweaks.

Apple's bookreading app, now called Apple Books, has also received an overhaul, adding a really useful recommendations section, and a dedicated Audiobooks tab for the first time.

Overall, there's no real killer feature in iOS 12, but that's not a bad thing - as pretty much everything is better.

This is one of the very few updates that really does improve things across the board - and make it an essential upgrade.

To download the latest operating system update, head to Settings, then tap on General and Software Update.

WHAT IS NEW IN APPLE'S iOS 12? Once Apple users upgrade to iOS 12 they will see a host of changes to how their device works. It will power the iPhone and iPad and packs a slew of new features aimed at improving your device's performance, as well as fun augmented reality tools. Here's what's new in iOS 12: Augmented reality Apple has released the next version of its augmented reality platform for developers, called ARKit 2. ARKit, which was first launched in 2017, now has improved face tracking, 3D, object detection and a more persistent experience. Multi-user virtual environments are also featured in the ARKit 2, so that more than one person can see the same perspective in real time. Apple also announced a new AR app called 'Measure' that lets you see the dimensions of objects, like photos or chairs, and get automatic measurements Photos Apple's Photos app has seen a significant upgrade in order to allow the feature to become smarter. In iOS 12, the Photos app will now display search suggestions when a user is looking for a specific picture, based on things that appear in the photo, including cars, dogs and flowers. There's also a new 'For You' tab, that shows memories, as well as sharing suggestions. It suggests that you share photos with a friend if they appear in a photo and then prompts the friend to share photos with you if you appear in their photos. Apple has added a 'For You' tab to the Photos app that will show memories, as well as produce sharing suggestions. It will suggest you share photos with other users Siri Apple has rolled out a new feature in iOS12 called Shortcuts, which adds 'quick actions' for any app. For example, a user can change their settings so that if they say 'I lost my keys', it will prompt Siri to pull up the Tile app and show you where your keys are. Another new tool is called Suggestions, where Siri prompts the user to take certain actions in iOS, such as order their favorite coffee that they drink every morning. Another new tool is called Suggestions, where Siri prompts the user to take certain actions in iOS, such as order their favourite coffee that they drink every morning Apps The Stock app has received a major upgrade and now lets users tap on certain stocks to get detailed information. It'll also show relevant news headlines under the stock, which users can click on to see the full article. The Stock app has received a major upgrade and now lets users tap on certain stocks to get detailed information. It'll also show relevant news headlines under the stock Apple has also revealed a new and improved Books app, renaming it Apple Books from iBooks. There's a new preview screen that shows users where they last left off in an eBook, as well as a new store that 'makes browsing through eBooks and audiobooks better than ever'. Screen Time Apple ha snow formally launched a suite of tools aimed at helping people curb their smartphone addiction. Users can view and control how they spend their time on apps, set time limits and more. Apple has also launched a suite of tools aimed at helping people curb their smartphone addiction. Users can view and control how they spend their time on apps and more It also comes with new parental controls that let parents view how their child is spending their time in apps and set time limits. New Do Not Disturb features limit what notifications users see on their lock screen at night and in the morning. Notifications Users can now 'fine tune' their notifications and change the settings so that specific notifications only show up in the notifications centre and turn other notifications off altogether. Siri will also suggest that users turn off some notifications if the user hasn't opened the app in a while. Users can now 'fine tune' their notifications and change the settings so that specific notifications only show up in the notifications centre and turn other notifications off A new grouped notifications tool categorises app notifications by apps and topics. Users can swipe on a group of notifications and choose to view them later, removing them from the lock screen. Better performance Apple said iOS 12 will significantly improve how apps load and other performance features on iOS devices. In iOS 12, apps will load up to 40 per cent faster, the keyboard will come up 50 per cent faster and sliding open to the camera will be 70 per cent faster, even on older devices like the iPhone 5S.

====== 1399 ========

NAIM ATOM: HIFI WILL CHANGE THE WAY YOU LISTEN TO MUSIC

Rating:

With the rise of cheap smart speakers, virtually disposable headphones and booming TV soundbars, its been a tough few years for high quality audio.

However, British brand Naim may have the answer.

It's $2,999 Uniti Atom is a revelation, an integrated amplifier than makes it easy to stream music at a quality you've probably never heard before.

Scroll down for video

The tiny Atom packs a huge punch - and it the most impressive mix of tried and tested hifi and modern technology we've seen

It fact, I'd go so far as to say it can help you rediscover the lost art of listening to music - and has without doubt given me more enjoyment in the few weeks I've been using it that any other piece of technology over the past few years.

Everything about the Atom screams quality, from the industrial 'monolith' design with its metal fins to the screen that dominates the front of the unit.

Looks wise, it owes more to Apple and Braun than the historic hi-fi designs that were dominated by buttons and dials.

In fact, there are just four buttons - and you'll rarely use any of them.

However, there is the mother of all dials - a brilliantly designed volume control on the top of the unit.

It lights up to show how loud the system is, and is perfectly weighted, making it strangely addictive to use.

The amount of detail and presence in the system is amazing - with the very best recordings, you really do get a sense of being in the studio, and can hear exactly where each instrument is.

For most functions, however, there's a choice of a slightly overly complicated remote, or a superb app.

I found myself using the app 99% of the time, other than wanting to change the volume while watching TV.

But while the specs and design are all well and good, the key to the Atom is the sound.

It's simply jaw dropping.

I regularly found myself up until 2am listening (sorry neighbours) remembering a favourite song and being unable to contain the urge to listen to it.

The amount of detail and presence in the system is amazing - with the very best recordings, you really do get a sense of being in the studio, and can hear exactly where each instrument is.

On tracks like The Streets' Blinded by the Lights the bass is precise and undistorted, while classic Beatles tracks (particularly the recently remastered albums) reveal new detail in music you've been listening to your whole life.

The most interesting thing about the Atom is that it's so compelling, its almost impossible to have music on in the background.

The front display is extremely bright, and shows off album artwork while you play

I found myself having to go sit down to repeat tracks constantly just to hear them from the optimum position, and its all encompassing - even reading at the same time is often impossible.

I also used the Atom for my TV sound, and this worked very well - obviously you're not getting any kind of surround sound, but the sound you are getting is exceptionally clear and precise.

If you're worried about the Uniti being loud enough, don't be - Naim claims 40 watts per channel into 8 ohms, which in reality means it'll be more than loud enough for pretty much anything other than the biggest speakers.

Crucial to the Atom is the integration of streaming services, with Spotify and Tidal being being in.

Spotify sounds great on the Atom, but to really get the most out of it, you'll need a Tidal Hi-Fi subscription for its lossless service.

The combination of Tidal and the Atom is a revelation, and makes you realise just what most streaming services are lacking in terms of quality (although that said, on the average headphones or hifi setup you probably won't hear much of a difference).

There's also Chromecast support, meaning there's a plethora of other apps available that can use the Atom, along with bluetooth support.

Basically, you can hook up pretty much anything.

It's also possible to use the Atom for TV sounds, which I did using the digital input on the back of the unit - but there's also an option to get a HDMI input.

The attention to detail in getting the best sound is almost terrifying at times.

Q ACOUSTICS CONCEPT 40 The floorstanding speakers look amazing, with a white laquer finish that gives then a modern, but not too space age, feel. Finding the perfect speaker to go with the Uniti can be tough - but we were able to try it out with the $999 Q Acoustic Concept 40s, and they're a perfect combination. The floorstanding speakers look amazing, with a white laquer finish that gives then a modern, but not too space age, feel. However, its the sound that is jaw dropping. Put simply, you've probably never heard music like this before. It's incredible precise, especially if you spend a little bit of time getting the speakers in the perfect position. The combination can seem a little unforgiving at time, particularly with stereo effect - you really do need to be sat in the right place to get the best out of them. But sit in the sweet spot and it's truly mind blowing - and as with the Uniti, you'll see exactly why these speakers carry such a high price, and realise what you've been missing with any other setup.

From a power supply with floating pins aimed at ensuring a better connection to hand-wired analogue and digital circuitry, every element of the design in Uniti Atom has been considered for its effect on sound quality.

The Atom also looks great, in a very industrial way.

The screen is sharp and clear - although it really feels like it should be a touchscreen, and you'll without doubt reach out the first few times you use it.

Overall, it's incredible difficult to fault the Atom.

The app can be a little confusing at times, but with each update, it has improved.

But overall, this really is the perfect combination of old school hi-fi know how and modern technology.

It manages to bring the slightly archaic and ultra nerdy world of high end hifi into the world of streaming without compromising quality.

====== 1400 ========

NAIM MU-SO QB REVIEW

Rating:

Spending $1,000 on a wireless speaker at first sounds absurd.

But think back to an era where music really meant something, and wasn't just a commodity bundled free with your phone.

Naim's incredible Mu-So Qb takes you back those days - where the music captivates and enthralls, rather that simply being something in the background.

Scroll down for video

Inside, there’s the same high-grade signal processor you find in the Naim Mu-so Qb's expensive big brother – and it takes the same throw-everything-at-it approach to music

MU:SO QB DIMENSIONS Width: 8.6 in Depth: 8.3 in Height: 8.3 in Weight: 12.35 lbs

Naim’s original, the Mu-so, marked a massive change for wireless, digital music.

It sounded stunning, and boasted incredible volume and more importantly, clarity that no other all in one system could match.

However, it was big, hefty, and cost an eye watering $1499.

Now, Naim has taken the same sound quality and crammed it into a smaller and (slightly) more affordable box.

Setup is easy thanks to a newly redesigned app, and you can even use it to turn the system into a multi room one.

It also offers internet radio and high-quality Bluetooth Apt-X, and the app makes it simple to play music stored on your PC’s hard drive.

Adding new services is also easy - and crucially Spotify Connect and Tidal are included.

This allows the speaker to stream directly itself, without going through your phone.

While many have written it off, Tidal actually offer the highest quality files of any streaming service, and by a significant margin.

MU-SO QB: WHAT'S INSIDE 300 watts of power, with five drivers, two bass radiators and a woofer driven by its own 100-watt amp Connect the Naim Mu-so Qb to your Wi-Fi network and it streams in high quality from Spotify itself (ie, not from your phone) using Spotify Connect

Set the Qb up with it, and you'll be in audio nirvana.

One of the problems with the Qb is despite its smaller size, it won't fit in front of a TV, so it really does become a music only option for most.

However, the soundstage it produces is astonishing - clear, with amazing stereo separation for a single speaker, while bass is also excellent in all but the biggest of rooms.

It'll fill all but the biggest of rooms - and I found myself staying up late into the night to listen, much to the horroe of my neighbours.

Design wise, it's extremely simple, with one large dial to control the volume (and it's no ordinary dial, but one weighted to feel great).

There are also a couple of touchscreen buttons on the dial to switch sources, and a USB port to plug in a devices.

Like its predecessor, the Qb is worth every penny.

One problem you will encounter is actually a rather unusual one - the Naim is actually too good at times, making all but the best quality files sound a little lacking.

However, streaming services such as Spotify, and the latest downloads do sound great - while the higher quality lossless files sound absolutely stunning.

Overall, the price tag is a little intimidating, but after spending a bit of time you'll see that you really do get what you pay for - and the Naim mu:so Qb is the best all in one bookshelf speaker I've ever heard.

====== 1401 ========

THE HI-TECH $2,000 SPIN BIKE THAT REALLY COULD CHANGE YOUR LIFE

Over the last month, a strange thing has happened.

As an overweight, unhealthy 42 year old man, I never thought I’d say this, but I’ve become addicted to spin classes.

And more amazingly, I’ve actually been attending them - even before heading to work in the morning.

Scroll down for video

The view from the saddle: Peloton, a New York based hi-tech spin class firm, lets you stream rides live from the firm’s New York HQ, but also access a vast library of on demand rides.

HOW PELETON WORKS Riders can either use the firm's $1,995 bike with a built in touchscreen and sensors, or an iPad or android app on their own bike. Classes are either live for from an on demand library. Classes are either gym based or outside ride recorded using cameras. Sensors record performance and show live on screen stats and leaderboards with others in the class.

This incredible change is down to one thing - Peloton.

Rather than going to classes in Manhattan, surrounded by the kind of terrifying people who go to spin classes in Manhattan, Peloton lets you take classes whenever you want - at home.

It’s a spin bike with a built 22inch tablet screen built in.

It lets you stream rides live from the firm’s New York HQ, but also access a vast library of on demand rides.

More than this, is also tracks your every move, letting you see exactly how much you’re pedalling, what power you’re putting out, and how you’re doing in an online leaderboard which is either live or made up of other users who have taken the same on demand ride.

This isn’t a cheap bike, costing $1995, with a $39 monthly subscription, and I've been using it for the last month.

One of the most interesting things about Peloton is the breadth of classes available.

It’s astonishing, with everything from the standard dance music you’d expect to 'boomer rides' consisting of only Peter Gabriel tracks, to country and western, heavy metal and classical rides.

There are also a few scenic rides you can take at your own pace and show video of national parks, along with a series of general exercise classes you can watch dealing stretching and warmups.

In addition, there are also live DJ rides, which are at first a little odd, with a DJ booth set up next to the instructor.

However, these do really add to the atmosphere of rides, and became firm favourites with me.

There’s also a big range of instructors, of all age ranges, something that really does help Peloton appeal to everyone - and there are even rides hosted by professional cyclists (which are as absurdly tough as you'd expect).

Once you’ve started a class, you’ll see live stats in front of you on a dashboard, and the instructors will often tell you exactly what these should be.

Unlike a normal spin bike, Peloton’s has a digital resistance control - so there’s no more cheating by not turning it up when you’re told.

After each ride, you can see your stats - and how you've (hopefully) improved over time.

It’s a strange experience at first - but breathtaking how quickly you forget where you are, and become immersed in the ride.

It really is like being in the studio, and in many ways better than most spin studios, as you’re seeing so much data about your ride (and if you don’t want to, any or all of it can be hidden with a tap).

If you have friends with bikes, you can even see them live on screen, and compete with them during classes.

The key to Peloton is its sense of community - after a few weeks, I developed my favourite instructors and rides (for the record, the 45 minute live DJ rides with DJ John Michael Di Spirito and Nicole Meline became my go to).

One of the most interesting things about Peloton is the breadth of classes available. It’s astonishing, with everything from the standard dance music you’d expect to 'boomer rides' consisting of only Peter Gabriel tracks, to country and western, heavy metal and classical rides.

The bike really does turn fitness into a game - there are badges available for rides, with everything from a new high output to a fastest speed.

The bike also tracks and stores every ride you do, and this is an incredibly addictive tool - and I found after a month, my numbers were significantly improved.

Overall, the Peloton experience really is a perfect example of how technology can be used to change people’s lives.

Click below to watch a live ride in action

Founder John Foley told me he set the firm up after realising he didn't have time to go to the gym.

'My wife and I have 2 kids, we loved the gym, and missed going - it became harder and harder to make it there.'

'We built a platform to allow people to take that class at home.'

It is, however, expensive.

But with the average spin class, in Manhattan at least, costing around $35 a week, and gym memberships running to hundreds of dollars a month, it’s an investment that does pay for itself relatively quickly, at least if you use it regularly.

And I found I did - I'll be honest, I assumed after a few weeks the bike would be doing double duty as a clothes horse in my spare room.

In fact. I'm was getting up early to sneak in 30 minute classes before work, something I never thought I’d be doing.

The sheer convenience is the key, and the entire experience really has had an impact on my health in a way I didn’t expect.

It's an awful lot of money for a spin bike - but for many people, it really could change you life for the better.

====== 1402 ========

THE BEST ALL IN ONE SPEAKER YOU'LL EVER HEAR: NAIM MU-SO WIRELESS SPEAKER REVIEW

Rating:

It might not be a name familiar to the US market, but Naim is a legendary British brand hoping to make a splash with the American launch of its $1499 (£895) Mu:So speaker.

At first glance, it looks pretty much like any other speaker - clean lines, a bit of mood lighting while you listen, and the ability to wirelessly play music from your phone, and even Spotify.

However, switch it on, and the difference between this and pretty much every comparable speaker becomes obvious - as does the terrifying price tag.

Scroll down for video

The Mu:so boasts 450 watts of power from six 75 watt digital amplifiers to power the built-in speaker - and sounds stunning

Put simply, the sound is stunning.

Technically, it boasts 450 watts of power from six 75 watt digital amplifiers to power the built-in speaker.

What this equates to is jaw droppping good sound.

It's clear, with amazing stereo separation for a single speaker, while bass is also excellent in all but the biggest of rooms.

Design wise, it's extremely simple, with one large dial to control the volume (and its no ordinary dial, weighted to feel great).

There are also a couple of touchscreen buttons on the dial to switch sources, and a USB port to plug in a devices.

Underneath there's an ethernet port - and if you can, its well worth using this to squeeze every bit of quality out of music.

It'll also play pretty much any file you throw at it, can stream 24bit/192kHz high resolution ‘better than CD’ quality music, as well all audio formats from Apple Lossless CD imports from iTunes to HD formats such as WAV, FLAC and AIFF, all from Apple and Android smartphones and tablets, laptops and other storage devices.

It also includes AirPlay, UPnP (Universal Plug ‘n’ Play), Bluetooth (aptX), internet radio and native support for Spotify Connect.

Under the covers: The Mu-so boasts 450 watts of power from six 75 watt digital amplifiers to power the built-in speakers

Design wise, it's extremely simple, with one large dial to control the volume (and its no ordinary dial, weighted to feel great).

The only thing that really lets the system down is a rather ugly app - however, it reality you'll rarely need to use it.

It also took a few attempts to set the unit up initially, but it got there in the end.

There's also a basic remote control, which means you really do rarely need the app.

One problem you will encounter is actually a rather unusual one - the Naim is actually too good at times, making all but the best quality files sound a little lacking.

However, streaming services such as Spotify, and the latest downloads do sound great - while the higher quality lossless files sound absolutely stunning.

Overall, the price tag is a little intimidating, but after spending a bit of time you'll see that you really do get what you pay for - and the Naim mu:so is the best all in one speaker I've ever heard.

Additionally, it'll also give all but the very best separates systems a run for their money - and bodes well for the British firm's chances in the US.

====== 1403 ========

ROBO-STRIPPER! MEET THE POLE-DANCING ROBOTS TAKING TO THE STAGE

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1404 ========

STEPS FOR SOPHIA AS HUMANOID ROBOT CAN NOW MOVE AROUND

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1405 ========

LG REVEALS NEW 'ROLL UP' OLED TELEVISION AT CES IN LAS VEGAS

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1406 ========

MEET THE ROBO-MANTIS THAT CAN WALK OR DRIVE ON ANY TERRAIN

Video: Meet the robo-MANTIS that can walk or drive on any terrain

Meet the robo-MANTIS: Four-legged, four-wheeled robot unveiled at CES can walk or drive to handle any terrain

====== 1407 ========

SAMSUNG INTRODUCES THE 146

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1408 ========

GOOD BOY! SONY'S ROBOT DOG AIBO LEARNS SOME NEW TRICKS AT CES

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1409 ========

AMAZON'S ALEXA VOICE ASSISTANT TO BE INTEGRATED INTO VEHICLES

Video: Amazon's Alexa voice assistant to be integrated into vehicles

Alexa is coming to your CAR: Amazon's voice assistant to be integrated into vehicles and chargers in smart assistant war with Apple and Google.

====== 1410 ========

LATEST GADGETS ON DISPLAY AT CONSUMER ELECTRONICS SHOW IN VEGAS

Video: Latest gadgets on display at Consumer Electronics Show in Vegas

The Consumer Electronics Show (CES) attracts over 3800 companies, thousands of journalists and many more technology lovers every year in Las Vegas.

====== 1411 ========

DAILY MAIL TRIES OUT PORTABLE, IMMERSIVE ROYOLE HEADSET

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1412 ========

HUMANS DIDN'T KILL OFF AFRICA'S LARGEST MAMMALS

Climate change - not human hunters - led to the extinction of Africa's largest mammals, according to new research.

It had been thought that early humans hunted the 2,000 pound (900 kg) beasts to extinction 50,000 years ago after they learned to build tools and weapons.

But new research suggests deforestation and the spread of grasslands cause by climate change started their demise long before humans began to eat them.

The changing landscape stripped many of the animals of food and shelter, meaning they died out millions of years earlier than previously thought, scientists said.

Scroll down for video

Pictured is an artist's impression of a Gomphotherium pyrenaicum, an ancestor of the modern elephant that roamed Earth millions of years ago. Scientists suggest this species and other megaherbivores were wiped out by a changing climate

Africa still has the greatest diversity of large-bodied mammals but this was not always the case.

As recently as 50,000 years ago, virtually all of Earth's continents were populated with a great variety of species rivalling Africa's present-day diversity.

North America and Eurasia were home to Ice Age icons like woolly mammoths and saber-toothed cats, while giant kangaroos and wombats roamed the Australian outback, and gorilla-sized lemurs ambled across the forest floors of Madagascar.

Yet these creatures disappeared during the last 50,000 years as our tooled up species - Homo sapiens - spread out of Africa and across the globe.

The extinctions then occurred in virtually every region of the world except Africa, where most large mammals survived to the present-day.

It had been argued because human ancestors have been present in Africa for nearly seven million years - much longer than any other region of the world - they likely caused extinctions earlier in Africa than anywhere else.

This artist's impression depicts a Hyrachyus, an ancient ancestor of the modern horse, tapir and rhino

Researchers found that the sudden expansion of grassland beginning 4.6 million years (left) led to a sharp drop in Africa's megafauna population (right)

But new research suggested long term climate change drove the decline of giant mammals in Africa over the last 4.6 million years.

Falling atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) levels saw forests disappear and grasslands take over long before early man emerged.

Study leader Assistant Professor Tyler Faith, of the University of Utah and curator at the Natural History Museum of Utah, said: 'Despite decades of literature asserting that early hominins impacted ancient African faunas, there have been few attempts to actually test this scenario or to explore alternatives

'We think our study is a major step towards understanding the depth of anthropogenic impacts on large mammal communities, and provides a convincing counter-argument to these long-held views about our early ancestors.'

A fossil tooth of a hippo (Hippopotamus amphibius) (left) and a fossil tooth of a white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum) (right) , two of the few surviving megaherbivores

The US researchers compiled a seven-million-year record of herbivore extinctions in eastern Africa, focusing on the very largest species, the so-called 'megaherbivores' over 2,000 lbs.

Though only five megaherbivores exist in Africa today - hippopotamus, giraffe, elephant, white rhino, and black rhino - there was a much greater diversity in the past.

For example, three-million-year-old 'Lucy' (Australopithecus afarensis) shared her woodland landscape with three giraffes, two rhinos, a hippo, and four elephant-like species at Hadar, Ethiopia.

When and why these species disappeared has long been a mystery for archaeologists and paleontologists.

The team analysed more than 100 sites in East Africa with rich fossil records to track the longterm decline of megaherbivore diversity

Prof Faith said: 'Our analyses show that there is a steady, long-term decline of megaherbivore diversity beginning around 4.6 million years ago.

'This extinction process kicks in over a million years before the very earliest evidence for human ancestors making tools or butchering animal carcasses and well before the appearance of any hominin species realistically capable of hunting them, like Homo erectus.'

The study was based on fossil remains in eastern Africa and climate data to find over the last seven million years substantial megaherbivore extinctions occurred - 28 lineages became extinct, leading to the present-day communities lacking in large animals.

Yet this decline also began roughly 4.6 million years ago, and that the rate of diversity decline did not change following the appearance of Homo erectus, a human ancestor often blamed for the extinctions.

The decline of African megaherbivore diversity (gray curve) over the last seven million years was driven by falling atmospheric carbon dioxide and the expansion of grasslands, not hunting by ancient hominins

Though only five megaherbivores exist in Africa today - hippopotamus, giraffe, elephant, white rhino, and black rhino - there was a much greater diversity in the past

Postdoctoral scientist Dr John Rowan, of University of Massachusetts Amherst, added: 'The key factor in the Plio-Pleistocene megaherbivore decline seems to be the expansion of grasslands, which is likely related to a global drop in atmospheric CO2 over the last five million years.

'Low CO2 levels favour tropical grasses over trees, and as a consequence savannas became less woody and more open through time.

'We know that many of the extinct megaherbivores fed on woody vegetation, so they seem to disappear alongside their food source.'

And our ancestors may not be to blame for the downfall of carnivores rivals over the last few million years.

Professor Paul Koch, of the University of California, Santa Cruz, said: 'We know there are also major extinctions among African carnivores at this time and that some of them, like sabre-tooth cats, may have specialised on very large prey, perhaps juvenile elephants

'It could be that some of these carnivores disappeared with their megaherbivore prey.'

Prof Faith added: 'Looking at all of the potential drivers of the megaherbivore decline, our analyses suggest that changing climate and environment played the key role in Africa's past extinctions.

'It follows that in the search for ancient hominin impacts on ancient African ecosystems, we must focus our attention on the one species known to be capable of causing them - us, Homo sapiens, over the last 300,000 years.'

The study was published in the journal Science.

====== 1413 ========

GOOGLE’S DUPLEX AI CHAT BOT IS ROLLING OUT TO PIXEL OWNERS IN THE US

Google has released its artificial intelligence chat agent, Duplex into the wider world despite initial criticism over the technology.

Google has expanded the remit of the chat agent, which can arrange appointments over the phone from a 'small set of trusted users', to a 'small group' of Google Pixel phone owners, who are able to use the service in order to secure restaurant reservations in 'select cities'.

Other users can still access the app, but only 'trusted' testers are able to use the full system.

If you're not in the group it is likely you will get an error message which says: 'Sorry, I can't call to make reservations for you yet, but here's their phone number.'

Google had been accused of faking a demo back at its May investor conference

A spokesperson from Google had confirmed the update to VentureBeat, but clarified that the technology is not what was debuted at the company's conference in May.

Google Assistant can only place calls in English, however it is no longer limited to businesses with which Google has explicitly partnered.

'We're currently ramping up the ability to book restaurant reservations through the Google Assistant over the phone using Duplex technology.

'To help deliver a good experience to Pixel users and to businesses, we're starting with a slow rollout … and will expand to more Pixel users as we continue to ramp up.'

When Google first introduced its phone-calling digital concierge in May, some thought it sounded too human, while others worried that it would secretly record calls with people.

Buyers of Google's new Pixel 3 handset in some US cities will be the first to get access to Google Duplex, an AI that can make calls to restaurants and other firms on behalf of users

The AI's first demonstration at a Google Developer conference prompted a massive backlash against the technology.

In October the firm pledged to address the concerns and to implement changes.

'Pixel users in the U.S. will also be the first to get access to an experimental new Google Assistant feature, powered by Duplex technology, which helps users complete real-world tasks over the phone, like calling a restaurant to book a table,' the firm said at the unveiling of its Pixel 3 handset in October.

'This feature will initially be available later this year in New York, Atlanta, Phoenix and the San Francisco Bay Area to help people book restaurant reservations and will roll out to other U.S. cities in the future, Google said.

However, it admitted it had dramatically redesigned the system following the earlier backlash.

Duplex debuted at a conference in May when it was tasked to book a hair appointment over the phone in front of a live audience. Pictured is the screen shown to the audience during the demo, in which the receptionist seemingly failed to notice she was speaking to a robot

'As we develop new calling technologies, we believe it's critical that we help people understand the context of the conversation,'

'We'll disclose to businesses receiving the call that they're speaking to an automated system, and we have developed controls to protect against spam and abuse, as well as the ability for a business to opt out of receiving calls.'

Google previously said human operators will be standing by as backup should a call go off the rails.

The technology was first unveiled in May and the firm later face backlash as it had been accused of faking the presentation it delivered to investors.

During the demo, Google CEO Sundar Pichai said: 'What you're going to hear is the Google Assistant actually calling a real salon to schedule an appointment for you.'

Duplex seemingly put on such a good impression of a human that the person it called failed to notice they were speaking to a robot.

The creepy demo made headlines across the world, but reports suggested that Google faked the phone call and misled viewers and investors.

====== 1414 ========

AI INSPIRED BY THE EVIL HAL-9000 SUCCESSFULLY KEEPS ASTRONAUTS ALIVE FOR FOUR HOURS

The supercomputer HAL 9000, which is best remembered for killing astronauts in the '2001: A Space Odyssey' has been recreated by scientists to aid astronauts in space.

The new prototype, which has been developed by Texan company TRACLabs Inc, has successfully controlled a simulated planetary base for hours and can display information such as life support and robot status.

In the movie, HAL 9000 is the artificial intelligence controlling the nuclear-powered Discovery One spaceship.

In the novel by science-fiction legend Arthur C. Clarke written alongside the film, the computer is described as capable of talking with astronauts 'in the perfect idiomatic English he had learned during the fleeting weeks of his electronic childhood.'

In the movie, HAL 9000 is the artificial intelligence controlling the nuclear-powered Discovery One spaceship

Artificial intelligence researcher Pete Bonasso at TRACLabs had first saw '2001: A Space Odyssey' in his senior year at West Point university, where he programmed the academy's lone computer to play a virtual version of pool, and since then has set about trying to create something just like it.

In a study in the journal Science Robotics Bonasso said: 'When I saw '2001,' I knew I had to make the computer into another being, a being like HAL 9000.'

The new technology can visually display information such as people who need life support and robot status, but can also converse with people so they can ask questions, send commands and be warned about any problems.

Instead of murdering astronauts the software is designed to carry out plans only after sharing them with people and getting consent for action.

The new software that Bonasso and his colleagues have designed, branded the 'cognitive architecture for space agents,' or CASE, is composed of three key layers.

The new software has three layers and was developed by researchers and scientists in Texas

The first layer is a continuously running control that connects to and runs hardware such as robotic hands and eyes, as well as controlling a simulation of a planetary base.

The second layer focuses on what some would call the mundane and carries out procedures underlying routine activities such as connecting power to batteries, controlling oxygen-generation and carbon-dioxide-removal systems, and charging and sending rovers to retrieve samples of planetary rock.

The third layer consists of automatic planning software that decides how to achieve CASE's programmed goals for the day and the order in which to perform them.

2001 - A Space Odyssey as originally released in 1968 by director Stanley Kubrick

It can also automatically reschedule activities when problems arise, such as gas leaks, broken motors or planetary dust storms, Bonasso said.

The layers are linked to an ontology server a database that can reason about its data.

If someone moves a toolbox from the equipment locker to the crew quarters, the ontology server reasons that all of the tools in the box will change location as well, the researchers said.

Speaking to Space.com Bonasso said: 'Our colleagues and NASA counterparts are not concerned that our HAL might get out of control.

'That's because it can't do anything it's not programmed to do.'

The group have conducted trials and CASE managed a simulated planetary base for about four hours. However, the researchers stressed more work is needed before it can run an actual base.

'Though CASE is impressive, it's not the fully realized HAL from '2001: A Space Odyssey,' nor is it Lt. Commander Data from 'Star Trek: The Next Generation,'

'Its capability is very narrow, focused on events occurring on a planetary base. While it can keep the life support systems running, it has no idea who won the last presidential election.'

The group is now working with what NASA calls analogs — places where volunteers pretend they are living on a distant world.

The aim is to incorporate CASE into the analogs to see how the software can help improve future space expeditions.

Bonasso added he sometimes loses track of how this work aims to create a real-life version of HAL for distant astronauts.

'When you're deep in the workings of software, you forget sometimes that you're actually imagining what it would be like to live on Mars or the moon.

'Sometimes we have to step back and say, 'Hey! This is pretty cool.''

====== 1415 ========

TREASURE HUNTER DISCOVERS WALES' FIRST CELTIC CHARIOT

A 2,500-year-old Celtic chariot has been found buried in Wales for the first time.

The metal detectorist who uncovered the chariot in a Pembrokeshire field believes there would have been a chieftain or queen buried with it, although bones are yet to be found.

High-ranking chiefs in the Iron Age were generally laid to rest with their chariot, horses, tack and weapons.

Scroll down or video

A 2,500-year-old Celtic chariot has been found buried in a field in Wales for the first time. Mike Smith, 45, first found what he thought was a medieval brooch but turned out to be part of a Celtic horse harness (pictured)

Mike Smith, 45, first found what he thought was a medieval brooch but turned out to be part of a Celtic horse harness - dating to around 600 BC.

Mr Smith, from Milford Haven in Pembrokeshire, went straight back the following day and found more red enamel pieces.

He said: 'I knew the importance of them straight away.

'It was just instinct. I'd read all about chariot burials and just wished it could have been me, so finding this has been a privilege.'

Experts told Mr Smith, who has been a metal detectorist for 30 years, that the chariot is the first of its kind to be found in Wales.

The exact location of his amazing find, which is from somewhere in south Pembrokeshire, is being kept secret in anticipation of a major dig.

He was digging there by chance because his favourite digging spot was waterlogged.

This artist's impression depicts a horse drawn Celtic chariot and charioteer in Iron Age Britain

The metal detectorist who uncovered the Celtic chariot believes there could be an undiscovered Iron Age settlement nearby. Pictured is the brooch

Ground penetrating radar showed a pattern of buried ditches and walls - suggesting a large Celtic settlement. Then a trial excavation revealed the tops of a pair of chariot wheels (right)

Dyfed Archaeological Trust and National Museum Wales were then brought in to help with the dig.

Ground penetrating radar showed a pattern of buried ditches and walls - suggesting a large Celtic settlement.

Then a trial excavation revealed the tops of a pair of chariot wheels.

Mr Smith said: 'Often the wheels were laid flat but this one appeared to have been buried intact.

Ground penetrating radar showed a pattern of buried ditches and walls - suggesting a large Celtic settlement. Pictured is part of the harness complete with its red and green enamel that Mr Smith found

The site has now been recovered and is set to get legal protection, with a full excavation planned for next year. Pictured is part of the painted harness that was found

'It could have had the chieftain or queen sitting in it. There would have been a mound over it but that has gone.'

He believes past ploughing might have brought the finds closer to the surface.

The site has now been recovered and is set to get legal protection, with a full excavation planned for next year.

But what is still exciting Mr Smith is a three-metre metal anomaly shown up by the scans and actually underneath the chariot.

Mr Smith said: 'It could be weapons... or it could be treasure.'

Dyfed Archaeological Trust and National Museum Wales were then brought in to help Mr Smith (centre, in brown) with the dig

====== 1416 ========

IMAGE CAPTURES VERY RARE MOMENT THE NORTHERN LIGHTS APPEAR ALONGSIDE A 'MOONBOW'

Two of the world's most elusive atmospheric wonders have been caught on camera in a stunning visual display.

The Northern Lights, or aurora borealis, made a spectacular appearance alongside a rarely-seen 'moonbow' over Sweden's Lapland on Tuesday night.

The dual presence of these famed phenomenons took place at the Lights Over Lapland resort in Abisko, north of the Arctic Circle, where onlookers were left stunned.

It occurred when the aurora borealis coincided with both humidity and a luminous, nearly-full moon.

Scroll down for video

Two of the world's most elusive atmospheric wonders have been caught on camera in a stunning visual display. The Northern Lights, or aurora borealis, made a spectacular appearance alongside a rarely-seen 'moonbow' over Sweden's Lapland on Tuesday night

Fortunately, the stunning moment was captured on camera by Lights Over Lapland founder Chad Blakeley.

'We've set up an Aurora webcam giving our community a live feed of images of the night Sky, and Northern Lights, over Abisko,' he said.

It was whilst reviewing the footage on the webcam that he spotted the moonbow developing through the Northern Lights.

HOW ARE MOONBOWS FORMED? Just like daytime rainbows, moonbows need the light from the moon to be reflected and refracted by water droplets at a certain angle. Rather than seeing the full spectrum of colours, moonbows often appear to be white to the human eye. However, the colours are there, and long-exposure photographs are a great way of capturing their beauty. The moon needs to be near to or at its fullest phase and low in the sky (less than 42°), whilst the night sky itself needs to be very dark. There also needs to be rain falling opposite the moon, or as you can see in the image below, another source of water droplets such as a waterfall. To see a moonbow, the observer has to have the moon behind them (as in an ordinary rainbow). The best time to see moonbows is a couple of hours after sunset or before sunrise. SOURCE: Met Office

'It was a unique experience for me and I’ve been photographing the Northern Lights every winter for the last 10 years,' he added.

The MEt Office told MailOnline: 'The night sky must be very dark to be able to see moonbows, plus there must be rain falling opposite the moon - this combination makes moonbows more rare than rainbows produced by the sun.

'Also, moonbows are more likely to be spotted at lower latitudes where there are more hours of darkness.'

A moonbow, sometimes known as a lunar rainbow, works on a similar principle to a rainbow, but is the result of moonlight rather than sunlight passing through water in the air.

Light from the Moon shines on droplets of moisture. It is difficult for the human eye to pick out the colours and for this reason it appears white. However, the colours will appear in long-exposure photographs.

Visual display: The dual presence of the Northern Lights and a moonbow took place at the Lights Over Lapland resort in Abisko, north of the Arctic Circle

Aurora borealis: Usually, the Northern Lights appear alone - as here at Lofoten islands, Norway, where green lights are seen hovering above the waters

Moonbows are most easily viewed when the Moon is nearly full. They are relatively rare because they need a number of conditions to appear.

The Moon must be less than 42 degrees high in a very dark sky.

Moonbows were first mentioned by Aristotle back in 350BC, and there are certain parts of the world where you are more likely to see them, such as Hawaii.

====== 1417 ========

200M YEAR OLD GIANT BONES BELONGING TO A TEN-TON REPTILE THE SIZE OF AN ELEPHANT ARE FOUND IN POLAND

Dinosaurs roaming the earth more than 200 million years ago could have had some serious competition from an ancestor which was the size of an elephant.

During the Triassic period (252-201 million years ago) mammal-like reptiles called therapsids co-existed with ancestors to dinosaurs, crocodiles, mammals, pterosaurs, turtles, frogs, and lizards.

Now, researchers at Uppsala University in Sweden, along with colleagues in Poland, have discovered fossils from a new genus of gigantic dicynodont.

The new species, Lisowicia bojani was a reptile with mammalian traits and had co-existed with dinosaurs.

Fossil bones discovered in Poland belonged to a huge toothless plant-eater that stood on four legs

Fossil bones discovered in Poland belonged to the huge toothless plant-eater, which stood on four legs and weighed nine tons. Other known dicynodonts have ranged in size from rat-like burrowers to browsers as big as cows.

The discovery has overturned the idea that dinosaurs were the only really large land animals around during the Triassic period.

Despite their reptilian heritage, dicynodonts and their relatives were the ancestors of all modern mammals, including humans.

One of the researchers from the Polish Academy of Sciences, Dr Tomasz Sulej said: 'The discovery of Lisowicia changes our ideas about the latest history of dicynodonts, mammal Triassic relatives. 'It also raises far more questions about what really makes them and dinosaurs so large.'

'The discovery of such an important new species is a once in a lifetime discovery.'

Researchers at Uppsala University in Sweden, together with colleagues in Poland, have discovered fossils from a new genus of gigantic dicynodont

Researchers from the University of Uppsala in Sweden along with colleagues from Poland, inspecting the fossils which were found in Poland

The earth is around 4.5 billion years old and in that time has gone through many geological periods and dramatic change.

During the Triassic period, all land on Earth came together and formed the massive continent called Pangea.

During this time, the first dinosaurs came into being as well as ancestors to crocodiles, mammals, pterosaurs, turtles, frogs, and lizards.

A comparison between Lisowicia bojani (right) and a modern elephant (left)

All species of dicynodonts were herbivores and their sizes ranged from small burrowers to large browsers. Most of them were also toothless.

They survived the Permian mass extinction and became the dominant terrestrial herbivores in the Middle and Late Triassic.

They were thought to have died out before the dinosaurs became the dominant form of tetrapod on land.

Dr Grzegorz Niedzwiedzki, from Uppsala University in Sweden said that the fossil development was hugely exciting 'because it blows holes in many of our classic ideas of Triassic 'mammal-like reptiles'.

'Dicynodonts were amazingly successful animals in the Middle and Late Triassic.

Artist's impression of the Lisowicia bojani, an early ancestor of modern mammals that lived more than 200 million years ago

'Lisowicia is the youngest dicynodont and the largest non-dinosaurian terrestrial tetrapod (four-legged animal) from the Triassic. It's natural to want to know how dicynodonts became so large.'

The fossils were found in the Polish village of Lisowice, and a German comparative anatomist named Ludwig Heinrich Bojanus who worked in Vilnius and is known for making several important anatomical discoveries.

A study of the bones, published in the journal Science, shows that Lisowicia was about 4.5 metres (14.7ft) long and 2.6 metres (8.5ft) high - around the size of a modern elephant.

It was 40% larger than any dicynodont identified before. Lisowicia stood upright in a similar way to large present-day mammals such as rhinos and hippos, unlike many of its relatives which had a tendency to sprawl like Lizards.

The fossils are the first to reveal that large dycynodonts were alive at the same time as early long-necked sauropod dinosaurs. During this period dinosaurs had not yet evolved to their biggest heights.

One of the earliest big dinosaurs, a sauropod from what is now Argentina called Ingentia prima, only weighed about 10 tons and was not much heavier than Lisowicia. Later on sauropods, such as diplodocus and brachiosaurus, included the largest land animals that ever lived.

Dicynodonts are all thought to have died out before dinosaurs reached the pinnacle of their 200 Therapsids are thought to have had naked skin rather than scales like reptiles and were probably warm-blooded.

The findings from Poland are the first substantial finds of dicynodonts from the Late Triassic in Europe.

====== 1418 ========

AMAZON GEARS UP TO COMPETE WITH APPLE AS THEY PREPARE TO ROLL OUT THEIR NEW DIGITAL WALLET

Amazon is preparing to roll out their new digital wallet to compete with Apple Pay in the mobile payments race.

The tech giant is persuading merchants to accept its Amazon Pay digital wallet, according to a source familiar with the company's plans.

The source said the firm is quietly looking for petrol stations, restaurants and shopping outlets that don't directly compete with Amazon.

Like PayPal, Amazon Pay is currently used for online retail purchases but they are said to be looking to expand their payment capabilities.

Examples of rival companies that offer in-store options are Apple Pay, Google Pay, and the Starbucks mobile app.

Scroll down for video

Amazon is preparing to roll out their new digital wallet to compete with Apple Pay in the mobile payments race. The tech giant is persuading merchants to accept its Amazon Pay digital wallet, according to a source familiar with the company's plans.

The source told the Wall Street Journal that retailers may be resistant to the effort because they would view it as a threat.

Amazon, now currently worth $1 trillion, is part of Amazon’s efforts to be a 'part of every aspect of consumers’ lives'.

It is not yet known how customers would use Amazon pay in stores.

The company offers similar mobile-wallet options for in-store purchases at its cashierless Amazon Go stores where customers use the 'just walk out' technology to pay using the app.

One idea is that they will scan a code on their phones. Others say that it will work in a similar way to their competitors.

Beyond Apple, many of Amazon's tech and retail competitors have already adopted mobile-wallet usage, including Samsung, Google, Walmart, and China's WeChat.

Beyond Apple, many of Amazon's tech and retail competitors have already adopted mobile-wallet usage, including Samsung, Google and China's WeChat. Amazon Pay is primarily used for online retail purchases but they are said to be expanding their payment capabilities

Bloomberg reported in September that it is considering opening 3,000 more of these stores.

Although the mobile wallet system was slow to grow since its release in 2011 with the introduction of Google Wallet, research predicts that the number of mobile-wallet users will reach 450 million by 2020.

Apple Pay is continuing to grow year-on-year with more than 5 million in-store locations as of May accepting the payment method.

====== 1419 ========

WEIRD REALISTIC-LOOKING CHILD ROBOT CAN MIMIC FACIAL EXPRESSIONS

An eerie robot with the face of a small child can make realistic-looking facial expressions.

Creepy footage shows Affetto, an android with just a head and no body mimic human expressions like smiling and frowning.

The robot was made by researchers from Osaka University in Japan who say it could open the door for androids to have 'deeper interactions with humans'.

Affetto, who has flesh-coloured skin on its face, can mimic a range of human expressions with incredible accuracy.

Scroll down for video

An eerie robot with the face of a small child can make realistic-looking facial expressions. Creepy footage shows Affetto, pictured here. The android can mimic human expressions like smiling and frowning

The team faced a series of challenges owing to factors such as the range and asymmetry of natural human facial movements, the restrictions of materials used in android skin, and the intricate engineering and mathematics driving robots' movements.

The android's first-generation model was released in a study in 2011. Since then they've worked out how to make the second generation more expressive.

The robot is able to subtly lower or raise part of its lip or eyelids to create certain expressions.

Dr Minoru Asada, the co-author of the study, said: 'Surface deformations are a key issue in controlling android faces.

'Movements of their soft facial skin creates instability, and this is a big hardware problem we grapple with. We sought a better way to measure and control it.'

The robot was made by researchers from Osaka University in Japan who say it could open the door for androids to have 'deeper interactions with humans'. Affetto, who has flesh-coloured skin on its face, can mimic a range of human expressions with incredible accuracy

To develop Affetto, the researchers identified 116 different facial points, and analysed the mechanisms needed to create distinctive facial expressions.

Initially, the researchers encountered issues balancing the applied force and adjusting the synthetic skin to make sure the face was realistic.

However, the team was able to adjust the system and eventually Affetto's face.

Dr Hishari Ishihara, the first author of the study, said: 'Android robot faces have persisted in being a black box problem: they have been implemented but have only been judged in vague and general terms.

The android's first-generation model was released in a study in 2011. Since then they've worked out how to make the second generation more expressive. The robot is able to subtly lower or raise part of its lip or eyelids to create certain expressions

'Our precise findings will let us effectively control android facial movements to introduce more nuanced expressions, such as smiling and frowning.'

A recent study showed that people are less likely to turn off a robot if it has a human face.

Human beings can feel sympathy and empathise with a robot that isn’t even alive and realistic facial expressions like the ones Affetto can replicate would likely make that even more apparent.

====== 1420 ========

APPLE IS TIPPED TO LAUNCH A CHEAP TV DONGLE THAT WILL COME WITH ITS SECRET STREAMING SERVICE

Apple could launch a cheap TV 'dongle' that will come with its billion dollar streaming service which is set to rival Netflix, according to a new report.

It is believed the dongle would work in a similar way to Google Chromecast and Amazon Fire Stick.

The news comes just one month after it was reported the firm would be launching its original streaming TV service 'in the first half' of next year.

The device would plug into television sets so customers could cheaply stream media content from the video service which is set to feature a variety of original content.

Apple could launch a cheap TV 'dongle' that will come with its billion dollar streaming service that is set to rival Netflix, according to a new report (stock image)

Apple launched its Apple TV media console back in 2007.

However, currently the Apple TV 4K costs £199 while rival streaming sticks are just £30.

According to an in-depth report byThe Information, the firm now plans to launch an affordable version that would encourage more customers to access its streaming service.

The report says the firm is having internal discussions that would make the upcoming video service - which is only available on Apple devices - more widely available.

The streaming TV service will launch in more than 100 countries, according to three people who spoke to the site.

It would put Apple in direct competition with Netflix and Amazon, both of whom also offer international services.

The company has signed up dozens of new shows to the project so far with big stars such as Reese Witherspoon, Jennifer Aniston and Kristen Wiig already on board.

Apple is making a billion-dollar bet on its own on-demand television service that could launch as soon as 2019. The company has signed up 12 new shows to the project so far with big stars such as Reese Witherspoon (left) and Jennifer Aniston (right) already on board

'Apple is working to launch its new TV service in the U.S. in the first half of next year and will make the app available globally in the following months, the people said,' The Information wrote last month.

It will include Apple’s original programs free to Apple device owners and also will enable users to sign up for TV network subscriptions owned by other companies, just as Amazon Prime Video subscribers can do through the Amazon Channels feature in the U.S., U.K., Germany and Japan, the people said.

However, Apple's original TV shows are so bland that its own staff have labelled the firm's billion-dollar (£760 million) Netflix rival as 'expensive NBC' – a mocking reference to the channel's reputation for broad, family-friendly programming.

Company executives, including CEO Tim Cook, have refused to authorize shows with 'profanity, violence or gratuitous sex', sources claim.

Vital Signs – a scripted drama about the life of hip-hop artist Dr Dre – has already been shut down by Apple for featuring cocaine use, an orgy, and 'drawn guns'.

The new shows, backed by a budget that is set to top £0.7 billion ($1 billion), will launch sometime between March and summer 2019. Programmes include a new drama series from 'La La Land' (pictured) director Damien Chazellae

Other big-budget series, including a thriller written by Academy Award-winning director M. Night Shyamalan, have been heavily hampered by the firm's demands.

The show, which follows a couple who lose a young child, was delayed after Apple executives asked that all crucifixes in the couple's house be removed.

Sources close to the project said the decisions were made because Apple was afraid to compromise its consumer products sales, an issue not faced by streamers like Netflix and Amazon.

They said Apple's desire to keep everything family-friendly could delay the launch of its streaming service, which is due to launch next year.

Apple is constructing a 128,00-square-foot headquarters for its new entertainment division, called Apple Worldwide Video, in Culver City, California.

The new shows, backed by a budget that is set to top £0.7 billion ($1 billion), will launch sometime between March and summer 2019.

They include a psychological thriller by 'The Sixth Sense' director M. Night Shyamalan as well as a drama series from 'La La Land' director Damien Chazellae.

====== 1421 ========

COULD YOU BE THE NEXT TIM PEAKE? ASTRONAUT REVEALS THE BIGGEST CHALLENGES NEW RECRUITS FAVE

Astronaut Tim Peake has revealed the biggest challenges new recruits face when it comes to travelling to outer space.

He said budding astronauts must face a gruelling day of tests that evaluates your concentration, memory and spatial awareness.

But the 46-year-old, who spent 185 days aboard the International Space Station between 2015 and 2016, says he found learning Russian the toughest challenge.

He revealed in a new interview that grappling the language was the area he had to work hardest at, as he needed to be fluent in order to keep his Russian colleague's aboard the space station safe.

Astronaut Tim Peak appeared on This Morning to talk about what it takes to become an astronaut

Despite finding it the hardest challenge, Peake said it was one requirement which had helped him to keep his colleagues safe.

'In the space craft only Russian is spoke, all the documentation is in Russian and on board the space station I had to help my two Russian colleagues do a space walk.

'So to get them out safely and get them back in safely, their lives were in my hands.

'I came from a very technical scientific background and so I didn’t really have a problem with those aspects but languages were never my strong points so learning Russian was really quite hard.'

In the interview with This Morning's Phillip Schofield and Rochelle Humes, Peake said it was important for current astronauts to bust the myths surrounding how you actually become an astronaut, and also highlighted how this had been one of the inspirations behind his new book titled 'The Astronaut Selection Test Book'.

The 46-year-old admitted that one of his biggest challenges had been to learn Russian

'You have to demystify the process of how we select astronauts and what we expect of astronauts and more importantly the next generation which is going to be fascinating, looking at returning to the moon, and then going on to missions to mars and they are the skills we need for the next bunch of recruits.'

However, those who are keen on embarking on a career as an astronaut will have to have that certain something in order to be successful and Peake said it's not always about the skills you may already posses.

'Hard skills are the non-trainable skills – you have either got it or you haven’t to some degree.

Rochelle and Phillip interviewed Tim Peake at the ITV studios in London

'It's a very very intensive day, there are a whole bunch of test thrown at you, mostly computer based testing things like concentration, memory retention special awareness and all of these kinds of aspects that I found very challenging.'

As well as having to learn Russian, in order to become an astronaut, Peake said that you have to take part in a gyroscope test.

‘We sometimes use them in the selection and training process and it helps acclimatise to you to the perception that you might have in space.

'For example when you re-enter the earth’s atmosphere the space craft is tumbling for the initial stages fairly out of control and at that same time you are also having to focus and concentrate in the space craft on what the systems are dong and getting ready for re-entering.

'So we are asking people to have mentally demanding skills where there are also physical challenged.'

====== 1422 ========

FURRY EROTICA SITE HIT BY DATA BREACH THAT EXPOSED HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF USERS’ INFORMATION

Thousands of people in the furry community have been hit by a data breach affecting the website of an erotic role-playing game.

According to web security site Have I Been Pwned, hackers were able to obtain email addresses, names, order histories, hashed passwords, and both physical and IP addresses for 411,000 High Tail Hall players.

The game features sexualized, anthropomorphic animals and allows users to have ‘erotic encounters’ with other characters.

Creators of the game say they are aware of the issue and have since moved to a ‘more advanced and stable security system,’ but are urging users to change their passwords as an added precaution.

Scroll down for video

Thousands of people in the furry community have been hit by a data breach affecting the website of an erotic role-playing game. HTH Studios says the data was leaked from their old website before it switched to a more secure system in October

Troy Hunt, who runs HIBP, spotted the breach and alerted HTH Studios.

While the breach itself took place back in August, Hunt says the data appeared on a popular hacking forum months later.

‘In August 2018, the adult furry interactive game creator HTH Studios suffered a data breach impacting multiple repositories of customer data,’ Hunt tweeted.

‘Several months later, the data surfaced on a popular hacking forum and included 411k unique email addresses along with physical and IP addresses, names, orders, salted SHA-1 and salted MD5 hashes. HTH Studios is aware of the incident.’

According to HTH Studios, the data was leaked from their old website; High Tail Hall switched over to a new, more secure system in October.

According to web security site Have I Been Pwned , hackers were able to obtain email addresses, names, order histories, hashed passwords, and both physical and IP addresses for 411,000 High Tail Hall players

After being alerted by Hunt this week, however, HTH Studios says it has contacted ‘security, developers, legal counsel, and law enforcement’ to investigate the issue.

‘Both our internal security and web team security assures us that no financial data was compromised,’ an HTH admin said on the site.

The breach is just the latest in a string of attacks targeting adult websites over the last few years.

Massive hacks hit Ashley Madison, xHamster, and Adult FriendFinder back in 2015 and 2016, and so-called ‘sextortion’ scams have been on the rise.

Troy Hunt, who runs HIBP, spotted the breach and alerted HTH Studios. While the breach itself took place in August, Hunt says the data appeared on a popular hacking forum months later

HOW CAN YOU PROTECT YOUR INFORMATION ONLINE? Because hackers are becoming more creative, security experts are warning that consumers need to take all possible measures to protect their identities (file photo) Make your authentication process two-pronged whenever possible . You should choose this option on websites that offer it because when an identity-specific action is required on top of entering your password and username, it becomes significantly harder for fraudsters to access your information. Secure your phone . Avoiding public Wifi and installing a screen lock are simple steps that can hinder hackers. Some fraudsters have begun to immediately discount secure phones altogether. Installing anti-malware can also be beneficial. Subscribe to alerts . A number of institutions that provide financial services, credit card issuers included, offer customers the chance to be notified when they detect suspicious activity. Turn those notifications on to stay informed about credit card activity linked to your account. Be careful when issuing transactions online . Again, some institutions offer notifications to help with this, which will alert you when your card is used online. It might also be helpful to institute limits on amounts that can be spent with your card online.

HTH Studios says it’s taking steps to ensure its users are protected, and says its new website is a ‘MUCH more advanced and stable security system.’

‘The security and comfort of our users is the highest priority,’ HTH_Crow said in the post.

‘At this time we recommend ALL of our users update your account passwords (Just to be safe).’

====== 1423 ========

HUMANS HAVE TWO INTERNAL 'CLOCKS' CAN PREDICT THE FUTURE

The human brain has two internal 'clocks' that predict our immediate future.

That's according to new research from the University of California, Berkeley, which suggests our neural wiring predicts the forthcoming milliseconds.

One of the 'clocks' relies on past experiences, while the other is dependent on rhythm - but both are crucial to how we navigate the world.

These inbuilt clocks allow humans to know when to press the accelerator pedal in a car momentarily before the light goes green and the cognitive timekeeping feature also allows us to know when exactly to start singing the next line of a song.

The internal timepieces were discovered after experts studied the accuracy of anticipatory timing amid people with Parkinson's disease.

Finding: One of the 'clocks' relies on past experiences, while the other is dependent on rhythm. These inbuilt clocks allow humans to know when to press the accelerator pedal in a car momentarily before the light goes green (stock image)

'Whether it's sports, music, speech or even allocating attention, our study suggests that timing is not a unified process, but that there are two distinct ways in which we make temporal predictions and these depend on different parts of the brain,' said the study's lead author Assaf Breska.

The findings, published online in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences journal, offer a new perspective on how humans calculate when to make a move.

'Together, these brain systems allow us to not just exist in the moment, but to also actively anticipate the future,' said senior author Richard Ivry.

Breska and Ivry studied the anticipatory timing strengths and deficits of people with Parkinson's disease and people with cerebellar degeneration.

They connected rhythmic timing to the basal ganglia and interval timing – an internal timer based largely on our memory of prior experiences – to the cerebellum.

Both are primal brain regions associated with movement and cognition.

The 'clocks' were discovered after experts studied the accuracy of anticipatory timing amid people with Parkinson's disease. the cognitive timekeeping feature also allows us to know when exactly to start singing the next line of a song (stock image)

Moreover, their results suggest that if one of these neural clocks is misfiring, the other could theoretically step in.

'Our study identifies not only the anticipatory contexts in which these neurological patients are impaired, but also the contexts in which they have no difficulty, suggesting we could modify their environments to make it easier for them to interact with the world in face of their symptoms,' Breska added.

Non-pharmaceutical fixes for neurological timing deficits could include brain-training computer games and smartphone apps, deep brain stimulation and environmental design modifications, he said.

====== 1424 ========

THE EXTREME TESTS YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING GOES THROUGH TO REACH YOUR DOOR IN ONE PIECE

A packaging firm has revealed the extreme lengths companies go to in order to ensure customer deliveries arrive intact.

A five-step process puts the parcels through their paces with a series of rigorous tests designed to replicate every possibility eventuality.

London firm DS Smith puts their boxes through a five-stage course to measure how they fare against being dropped, impacted, shocked, crushed and shaken (DISCS).

Scroll down for video

Footage shows how the firm puts the boxes through the 'DISCS' process to make sure they're fit to go out for delivery.

Ahead of Christmas and Black Friday, retailers are facing £648 million ($827 million) worth of refunds and replacements due to damage during delivery, DS Smith research has shown.

According to the Interactive Media in Retail Group (IMRG) £8.1 billion ($10.3 billion) will be spent during Black Friday week.

The group is also forecasting that £1.54 billion ($1.96 billion) will be spent on this year's Black Friday alone, a 13 per cent increase from last year's £1.39 billion ($1.77 billion).

DS Smith research says that the average person spends an average of £841 ($1,074) per year shopping online.

The typical Black Friday customer buys two products, which have an average value of £81.89 ($104.61).

In a One Poll survey of two thousand UK adults who'd made an online purchase in the last 12 months.

It found that three quarters of them had received a damaged product leading to frustrated shoppers blaming the delivery company.

London firm DS Smith puts their boxes through a five-stage course to measure how they fare against being shaken, shocked, dropped, crushed and impacted against. They use the DISCS machine and put their boxes through a five-stage course to measure how they fare

To test to make sure their products aren't damaged they put them through a five course process of being shaken, shocked, dropped, crushed and impacted against

WHAT GOODS GET THE MOST DAMAGED? PRODUCT CATEGORY PERCENTAGE OF DAMAGED PRODUCTs Homeware/kitchenware 23.68 Electronic goods/technology 15.29 Other, including books, toiletries and DVDs 13.10 Clothing/footwear 12.41 Food/drink 9.54 Toys 8.51 Furniture 7.59 Sports equipment 4.37 Garden products 2.99 Flowers/other gift item 2.53

Homeware topped the list of damaged goods, with 24 per cent of products arriving damaged.

Toys, many of which will be bought before Christmas to be unwrapped by children on Christmas morning, account for nearly ten per cent of all damaged products.

Researchers also found that £162 million ($207 million) worth of refunds and replacements for damaged goods went unclaimed and a third of people have had their refunds refused or delayed.

Forty-six per cent of shoppers felt that the damage wasn't severe enough and kept their damaged products.

The footage shows how the firm puts the boxes through the 'DISCS' machine to make sure they're ready to go out for delivery. The test box is shaken in the machine to ensure that there is no excess space where the item inside can break or be damaged

Discussing the findings, Greg Dawson, Director of Corporate Affairs at DS Smith said, 'The journey from the online retailer to the shopper's front door has up to 50 touch points, that's 40 more than an in-store retailer, so it's vital that the packaging protects the product throughout the entire journey.

'The financial and emotional cost of receiving a damaged product is significant, especially during the festive period, and retailers need to be able to guarantee that products arrive with customers in one piece, during Black Friday and beyond.

'By using innovative technology that simulates the delivery journey – such as DS Smith's DISCS – packaging can be optimised so that it can withstand the bumps and knocks between the online retailer and the shopper's front door.'

The machine helps the package company reduce product void in boxes by padding them out adequately. Here, a bottle of wine is completely intact after being dropped on the ground. Ahead of Christmas, retailers are facing £648 million worth of refunds due to damage

====== 1425 ========

TINY FIRST TEMPLE STONE INSCRIBED WITH ANCIENT HEBREW ‘MIRROR WRITING’ DISCOVERED IN JERUSALEM

Archaeologists in Jerusalem have discovered a rare stone weight inscribed with a word from the Hebrew Bible.

The artifact, called a beka, dates back to the First Temple period roughly 3,000 years ago, when it would have been used to measure the value of worshipers’ donations, according to Haaretz.

Unlike one other such item found in the past, the inscription on the newly-discovered beka was engraved in ‘mirror script,’ from left to right, hinting that its creator specialized in making seals.

Archaeologists in Jerusalem have discovered a rare stone weight inscribed with a word from the Hebrew Bible. The artifact, called a beka, dates back to the First Temple period roughly 3,000 years ago

The stone weight was found by a team sifting soil near the foundation of the Western Wall.

‘Beka weights from the First Temple period are rare, however, this weight is even rarer because the inscription on it is written in mirror script,’ archaeologist Eli Shukron told Haaretz.

The expert says this is a sign of a seal-maker, ‘since seals were always written in mirror script so that, once stamped, the inscription would appear in regular legible script.’

According to Shukron, the person who made the beka likely used the same writing style as a seal by mistake.

Unlike one other such item found in the past, the inscription on the newly-discovered beka was engraved in ‘mirror script,’ from left to right, hinting that its creator specialized in making seals

The stone weight was found by a team sifting soil near the foundation of the Western Wall

The First Temple era came hundreds of years before coins arrived to the region, and Jews at the time paid a ‘temple tax’ in silver.

To calculate their donation, the silver was placed on a scale opposite the beka weights such as the one archaeologists have found.

Beka weights were used to measure half-shekel donations paid by people aged 20 and up, according to Haaretz.

The extremely rare stone weight was found in nearly the same spot as another discovered by the same team a few years back. According to Haaretz, it may even have been used in Solomon’s Temple

BRITISH HISTORIAN CASTS DOUBT ON KING SOLOMON TALES According to the Old Testament Solomon ruled the United Monarchy of Israel and Judea between 970 and 931BC and accumulated 500 tonnes of pure gold. However, British historian and author Ralph Ellis believes the tales of staggering riches buried beneath the ground are likely a 'gross misinterpretation' of historical texts. His study, which began in 1997, 'strongly indicates' Solomon was not a rich king of Israel at all, but rather a feared and powerful Egyptian Pharaoh. Mr Ellis believes neighbouring rulers plundered royal tombs located in Egypt's Valley of the Kings and presented the riches to Solomon as 'tribute' to prevent invasion. He believes tales of pharaohs were considered 'unpalatable and unacceptable' by later biblical authors, who altered their history to create a 'purely Israelite' hero.

This can be seen twice in the Bible, with a passage from Exodus, for example, stating:

‘A beka a head, that is, half a shekel, after the shekel of the sanctuary, for every one that passed over to them that are numbered, from twenty years old and upward, for six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty men.’

The extremely rare stone weight was found in nearly the same spot as another discovered by the same team a few years back.

According to Haaretz, it may even have been used in Solomon’s Temple.

====== 1426 ========

BMW TO OFFER AN UBER-STYLE TAXI SERVICE IN CHINA

Car giant BMW is set to expand its business as it prepares to launch ride-hailing services in China.

The launch of service, which is set to take place in December, will make the German car manufacturer the first global automaker to obtain such a license in the ever-growing market.

BMW Mobility Service Ltd, is a fully-owned subsidiary of the BMW Group and had obtained its ride-hailing licence in Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province in China's southwest.

The new permit will enable BMW to provide online booked taxi services in the city, however the firm did not reveal details of the expected fleet size.

BMW has obtained a ride-hailing license in Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan province

Earlier this year, BMW Group said it would increase its stake in its Chinese joint venture with partner Brilliance China Automotive Holdings Ltd to 75 percent from 50 percent.

China's ride-hailing market is worth $23 billion, more than all other ride-hailing markets combined, with China's Didi Chuxing dominating with 90 percent of all bookings.

However the firm has previously been criticised as it urged residents in China to delete popular app Uber, in favour of theirs. Despite this Didi Chuxing is currently the world's largest ride hailing app and is worth around $56billion.

Didi had also suffered a public relations and regulatory crisis earlier this year after two of its passengers were murdered while using its services.

BMW Group said it would increase its stake in its Chinese joint venture with partner Brilliance China Automotive Holdings Ltd

Germany's Daimler said in October it was setting up a ride-hailing venture in China with Geely Group, in a sign the Chinese firm was making progress in its drive for closer relations with the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars.

China has become the world’s largest mobility market after unprecedented growth over the past three years, according to a survey by consultancy Bain & Company.

It found 62 percent of respondents in mainland China hail rides online, compared to 29 percent in Germany and 23 percent in the US.

BMW has not yet revealed the size of the fleet which is set to launch later this year

====== 1427 ========

SMART TOILETS COULD SPOT DISEASES, SAYS HEALTH EXPERT

Sameer Berry says that a smart toilet is 'desperately needed' to prevent needless deaths

Health tracking toilets could be the key to spotting diseases by monitoring and tracking faecal matter.

Gastroenterologist Sameer Berry says that a smart toilet is 'desperately needed' to track patient's health data.

Although the technology does not exist as of yet, Berry says that he would love to see medical-technologists design hardware with features that monitor and diagnose gastrointestinal disease

Examples of these include bowel cancer, perianal abscesses, Crohn's disease and irritable bowel syndrome.

'Bowel habits is a big one,' he says.

'It's also arguably among the most impactful and actionable data.

'Both doctors and patients could benefit if we figure out a way to stop flushing away some of our most vital health information.'

Although the technology does not exist as of yet, Berry says that this is the invention would be a key opportunity for doctors to monitor gut health.

Scroll down for video

Health tracking toilets could be the key to spotting diseases by monitoring and tracking faecal matter. Gastroenterologist Sameer Berry says that a smart toilet is 'desperately needed' to track patient's health data (Stock image)

Mr Berry says that currently doctors rely on what patients tell them but there are many problems in this.

'Patients frequently can't remember whether they had a bowel movement.

'Doctors ask patients questions about their bowel movements and other details, consistency, color, blood, and so on, but we currently rely a lot on anecdotal information from patients or nurses.

'This seems bizarre in a world where other data is collected by technology.

'Elderly patients with dementia frequently go days without a bowel movement, putting them at risk for intestinal perforation and severe infection.'

He says that the obvious solution is an upgrade to the toilet which has not been significantly improved upon for hundreds of years.

Smart toilets do exist and are ubiquitous in places like Japan but they are more hygiene focused with features such as warm-water washing, air drying, and heated seats.

Toilet manufacturing giants Toto and Matsushita have made 'a step in the right direction' when they released WiFi-connected toilets that measure body mass index, biochemical makeup sugar, protein, flow rate, and temperature of urine.

The Neorest 750H, by Toto (pictured) is a high-tech ‘intelligent’ toilet which opens its lid when it sees you coming, closes when you leave, and cleans itself after every flush. Mr Berry says that toilet manufacturing giants have made 'a step in the right direction'

Inui Health recently announced FDA approval for its smartphone-connected urine analysis which can detect bladder infections, pre- and gestational diabetes, and kidney disease, all in the comfort of one's home.

'None of these have been incorporated into a single toilet, leaving a wide open opportunity for entrepreneurs,' says Mr Berry.

'Patients of all ages and socioeconomic classes experience gastrointestinal symptoms, and we are well aware of the diet's impact on our overall health.

'I see a lot of potential in measuring hormone fluctuation with menstrual cycles for family planning, or skin-sensing electrocardiograms.

'I also see patients using a 'smart toilet' to take better control of their own health and well-being, including their diet, if one were made available.'

====== 1428 ========

UK AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE TRIALS TO RECEIVE £25 MILLION GRANT

Three autonomous vehicle projects are set to receive backing from a share of a £25 million government fund, as the UK edges closer to seeing self-driving cars on its roads.

The new cars are set to 'revolutionise' the way Brits travel across the country and could even help to improve transport services for those who struggle to access public transport.

All of the new projects will include social behavioural research in order to understand how driverless technology can be seamlessly integrated into society.

The findings will then be applied to the development for future autonomous service models.

Business and Energy Secretary Greg Clark is set to announce the public trials in Oxford, after trying a self-driving vehicle firsthand, which is being tested around the city.

Autonomous vehicle trials are already under way in parts of the UK (Dominic Lipinski/PA)

Greg Clark (pictured above), Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy sits in a self-driving pod at the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders

'Self-driving cars will revolutionise the way we move goods and people around the UK,' Mr Clark said.

'These Industrial Strategy projects and investments are exciting examples of our long-term plan in action – ensuring we build on our strengths to reap the rewards as we accelerate towards our ambition to have autonomous vehicles on UK roads by 2021.

'Autonomous vehicles and their technology will not only revolutionise how we travel, it will open up and improve transport services for those who struggle to access both private and public transport.

'The UK is building on its automotive heritage and strengths to develop the new vehicles and technologies and from 2021 the public will get to experience the future for themselves.'

The MP will be taken in a test vehicle run by autonomous vehicle software company Oxbotica, the first person outside its technical team to try the autonomous mode on the streets of the UK. Co-founder Paul Newman will travel alongside, explaining how the system works.

Business and Energy Secretary Greg Clark (pictured) will announce the public trials in Oxford

The Government's Centre for Connected Autonomous Vehicles was established in 2015, in a bid to make the UK a world leader in self-driving technology, with £250 million, match-funded by industry, being invested so far.

Trials are already under way in parts of the UK, including Bristol, Coventry, Greenwich and Milton Keynes.

'The UK is a world leader in transport innovation, and our work on the Future of Mobility Grand Challenge will ensure this long continues,' said future of mobility minister Jesse Norman.

'Automated driving technology is advancing rapidly, and the UK market for connected and autonomous vehicles is forecast to be worth up to £52 billion by 2035.

'This pioneering technology will bring significant benefits to people right across the country, improving mobility and safety, and driving growth across the UK.'

====== 1429 ========

GREENHOUSE GAS LEVELS IN ATMOSPHERE REACH NEW RECORD HIGHS

Greenhouse gas levels have reached record new highs prompting experts to warn 'the window of opportunity for action is almost closed' to tackle climate change.

Average concentrations of carbon dioxide hit new highs of 405.5 parts per million (ppm) in 2017, up from 403.3 ppm in 2016 and 400.1 ppm in 2015, levels not seen for millions of years.

This is while the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) said that levels of other key greenhouse gases methane and nitrous oxide in the atmosphere, also rose.

The WMO has also warned of a resurgence in a potent greenhouse gas and ozone-depleting substance known as CFC-11.

Average concentrations of carbon dioxide hit new highs of 405.5 parts per million in 2017

This is while the UN has also warned that there is no sign of a reversal in the trend in increasing greenhouse gas levels, which is driving climate change, sea level rises and more extreme weather and making oceans more acidic.

WMO secretary-general Petteri Taalas: 'The science is clear. Without rapid cuts in carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, climate change will have increasingly destructive and irreversible impacts on life on Earth.

'The window of opportunity for action is almost closed.

'The last time the Earth experienced a comparable concentration of carbon dioxide was 3-5 million years ago, when the temperature was 2-3C warmer and sea level was 10-20 metres higher than now.'

The latest findings come after a report from the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) found net emissions of carbon dioxide must reach zero by around 2050 to keep temperature rises to 1.5C above pre-industrial levels and reduce the risks of climate change.

A graph from the World Meteorological Organisation shows the level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere

IPCC chairman Hoesung Lee said: 'The new IPCC special report on global warming of 1.5C shows that deep and rapid reductions of emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases will be needed in all sectors of society and the economy.

'The WMO greenhouse gas bulletin, showed a continuing rising trend in concentrations of greenhouse gases, underlines just how urgent these emissions reductions are.'

Professor Corinne Le Quere, director of the Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research at the University of East Anglia, said she was 'not surprised but I am very concerned' that the major greenhouse gases are rising unabated.

'It seems the urgency and extent of the actions needed to address climate change have not sunk in.

'Low-carbon technologies like wind, solar, and electric transport need to become mainstream, with old-fashion polluting fossils pushed out rapidly,' she said.

The WMO has various greenhouse gas observatories across the world including the Cape Point station, which is located in a nature reserve at the southern tip of the Cape Peninsula.

The focus of the station is continuous monitoring of long-lived GHGs, namely CO2, CH4 and N2O, and trace gases such as carbon monoxide, surface ozone, gaseous elemental mercury, halocarbons and aerosols.

It also operates The Greenland Environmental Observatory at Summit located at the top of the Greenland Ice Sheet.

Reacting to news that climate-changing gases in the atmosphere have reached a new high, Friends of the Earth's head of policy Mike Childs said:

'We can't continue to stand around idly while the planet hurtles towards catastrophic climate change.

'The human cost of climate breakdown is enormous and many of our most iconic wildlife habitats could be destroyed unless we take rapid action to cut emissions.

'The UK government should make the development of a low-carbon economy a top priority, rather than championing fracking and slashing subsidies for renewable power.

'Global warming needs international action. World leaders must address this crisis with renewed vigour - with or without Donald Trump.'

====== 1430 ========

SPACEX SAYS CREW ROCKET IS READY FOR JAN TEST FLIGHT AHEAD OF MISSION TO SEND ASTRONAUTS TO THE ISS

The first flight of a SpaceX rocket tailored to fly astronauts to the International Space Station is set for liftoff from Kennedy Space Center in Florida on Jan. 7, NASA said on Wednesday.

The launch test is a crucial milestone in the space agency's Commercial Crew Program, which aims to launch humans to space from U.S. soil for the first time in nearly a decade.

NASA said SpaceX's Crew Dragon spacecraft - which will shuttle three astronauts to space from the same launch pad that sent Apollo 11's three-man crew to the moon in 1969 - will make its debut flight atop SpaceX's Falcon 9 rocket on Jan. 7.

Scroll down for video

The first flight of a SpaceX rocket tailored to fly astronauts to the International Space Station is set for liftoff from Kennedy Space Center in Florida on Jan. 7, NASA said on Wednesday

While NASA did not detail the flight path, it said the test would provide data on the performance of the Falcon 9, Crew Dragon capsule, and ground systems, as well as on-orbit, docking and landing operations.

SpaceX and Boeing Co are the two main contractors selected under NASA's Commercial Crew Program to send astronauts to space as soon as 2019, using their Crew Dragon and CST-100 Starliner spacecraft respectively.

Since the U.S. space shuttle program was shut down in 2011, NASA has had to rely on Russia to fly astronauts to the space station, a $100 billion orbital research laboratory that flies about 250 miles (402 km) above Earth.

The Demo-1 launch is the latest test in a rigorous certification timeline imposed under NASA's Commercial Crew Program.

While SpaceX is targeting early January, NASA spokeswoman Marie Lewis said the demo mission could be pushed back because 'flying safely has always taken precedence over schedule.'

NASA said SpaceX's Crew Dragon spacecraft - which will shuttle three astronauts to space from the same launch pad that sent Apollo 11's three-man crew to the moon in 1969 - will make its debut flight atop SpaceX's Falcon 9 rocket on Jan. 7

WHAT IS SPACEX' CREW DRAGON? The capsule measures about 20 feet tall by 12 feet in diameter, and will carry up to 7 astronauts at a time. The Crew Dragon features an advanced emergency escape system (which was tested earlier this year) to swiftly carry astronauts to safety if something were to go wrong, experiencing about the same G-forces as a ride at Disneyland. SpaceX's Crew Dragon capsule measures 20 feet tall by 12 feet in diameter, and will carry up to 7 astronauts at a time. However, the manned flight will have four astronauts on board It also has an Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) that provides a comfortable and safe environment for crew members. Crew Dragon's displays will provide real-time information on the state of the spacecraft's capabilities, showing everything from Dragon's position in space, to possible destinations, to the environment on board. Those CRS-2 Dragon missions will use 'propulsive' landings, where the capsule lands on a landing pad using its SuperDraco thrusters rather than splashing down in the ocean. That will allow NASA faster access to the cargo returned by those spacecraft, and also build up experience for propulsive landings of crewed Dragon spacecraft.

Pictured is the Crew Dragon spacecraft simulator. The Crew Dragon features an advanced emergency escape system to swiftly carry astronauts to safety if something were to go wrong

Founded by Tesla Inc Chief Executive Elon Musk, SpaceX said if the Jan. 7 test is successful, it plans to launch its first crewed mission in June 2019, but the timeline may shift.

Boeing plans a similar test launch of the Starliner spacecraft atop its Atlas 5 rocket as soon as March, with a crewed mission following in August.

The Jan. 7 launch date announcement comes a day after NASA said it would conduct a 'cultural assessment study' of the companies, 'including the adherence to a drug-free environment,' prior to crew test flights.

====== 1431 ========

NEW SCAM CIRCULATING ON WHATSAPP OFFERING DISCOUNTS IN SPAR

A scam circulating on WhatsApp is asking users to enter a 'Black Friday competition' to win discounts and offers.

The chain message has been circulating on the app and encourages people to do a survey to win coupons from supermarket chain Spar.

The hoax is thought to have originated in South Africa last Friday but is said to have picked up steam, spreading to the UK and Ireland.

Scroll down for video

Spar Ireland has warned their customers not to click into the link or to forward the message to other contacts on Facebook and Twitter. They tweeted: 'There is a scam circulating on WhatsApp claiming to be a SPAR survey. Do not respond to it, it is a hoax.'

The message reads: 'SPAR in honour of ''Black Friday'' in November, is giving away the free coupons worth R2999. I just received my coupon https://lupx.info/spar'. '

The R2999 is South African rand currency and amounts to around £166.

The retail giant has warned their customers not to click into the link or to forward the message to other contacts.

If you click on the link it will take you to a clone of Spar's webpage to 'complete a survey on the supermarket's customer service before prompting you to forward the message onto other contacts.

They posted on their Facebook page: 'SCAM ALERT! Please note that SPAR has no association with this website. Please do not enter your details on this website and don't share the link.

'Keep in mind that we will always make mention of a competition either in-store or on our Facebook page.

The company also tweeted about the hoax message: 'There is a scam circulating on WhatsApp claiming to be a SPAR survey. Do not respond to it, it is a hoax.'

Bizarrely, the same retailer was used in a similar WhatsApp scam, also in South Africa, claiming to be a Spar initiative which urging people to fill in a survey to qualify for a 'R5000 (£268) voucher'.

A new scam circulating on WhatsApp asking users to enter a Black Friday competition to win £166 (2999 rand) of discounts and offers. The chain message has been circulating on the app since last Friday and encourages people to do a survey for supermarket chain Spar

Users were then inadvertently subscribed to an automatic daily subscription service, which deducts R7 (39p) from his or her phone bill.

Similar scams have used the messaging platform to target visitors to Paultons Theme Park, the home of Peppa Pig World, and Alton Towers.

Those who mistakenly believed the offers were genuine shared the scam promotional message with friends and family to try to get free tickets to the theme parks.

Those who receive the hoax text should avoid clicking the link, which takes WhatsApp users to a malicious website with an online form for users to input their personal information.

====== 1432 ========

SEXTERS BEWARE: WHATSAPP’S UPDATE COULD SHOW VIDEO PREVIEWS

Receiving a naughty message could now be a source of extreme embarrassment for WhatsApp users as the messaging app prepares to roll out video previews.

The company is said to be completing work on an update which displays previews of videos when a contact sends you a clip.

This could be a friend sending a funny video or some sweet footage of your niece or nephew but it could also be a raunchy video from your partner.

Currently, notifications only come up on the screen with the name of the person and a short preview of the top of their message.

Scroll down for video

WhatsApp will introduce a new feature where video previews automatically come up on your phone if someone sends you footage. The new feature could be a huge source of embarrassment to users who like to send/receive naughty clips

But if the update is introduced, a short clip from the footage will be viewable from the lock screen of your phone.

This could be awkward for those who could be expecting or caught off guard by a graphic image.

The new feature was uncovered by WhatsApp tech spies WABetaInfo.

They tweeted: 'WhatsApp is rolling out the possibility to view videos directly in the push notification for any iOS beta user having the 2.18.102.5 version installed!

'It will be available soon for App Store users.'

They said that the video previews will be available within 'push notifications'.

Users wishing to avoid such embarrassment will be able to customise their notification settings.

By going into notification settings the user can change their preferences to not show the previews.

WABetaInfo said that the messaging app is completing work on an update which causes previews of videos to come up on the screen of your phone. Currently, notifications only come up on the screen with the name of the person and a short preview of their message

====== 1433 ========

ASTRONOMER CAPTURES THE INCREDIBLE MOMENT A METEOR EXPLODES AND SCATTERS THROUGHOUT THE NIGHT SKY

This is the 'once in a lifetime' moment an amateur astrologer captures a meteor entering the earth's atmosphere - and exploding across the night sky.

Derek Robson, 58, recorded the stunning footage which shows the fireball rapidly hurtling across the sky before it explodes in a flash of white light and disintegrates.

Mr Robson said the meteor came out of the constellation Orion's nebula before it shatters somewhere near Bristol - around 130 miles away from his home in Loughborough, Leicester.

Stunning: The once-in-a-lifetime footage shows the fireball rapidly hurtling across the sky before it explodes in a flash of white light and disintegrates away

Mr Robson, who has been an avid astronomer for 48 years, said he couldn't believe his eyes when he watched the footage back.

The retired scientist believes the the fireball was, with the exception of the Sun, the brightest star in the sky.

He said: 'I was asleep when it all happened. I keep a camera running in my back garden which is triggered by motion sensors.

'Usually I just get planes and birds and things like that - but when I watched the footage back and say this I was simply stunned.

'I couldn't believe my eyes and I was jumping in the air for joy - I was so happy that I got it.

'It was shaped like a great big oval and came out of my favourite constellation Orion's nebula. It was mine and my late father's favourite constellation - so I feel like it was my father who was throwing the meteor my way.

Right place, right time: The meteor came out of the constellation Orion's nebula before it shattered somewhere near Bristol

Exceptional: It's believed the fireball was, with the exception of the Sun, about 275 times brighter than Sirius - the brightest star in the sky

WHAT IS THE ORION NEBULA? The Orion Nebula, AKA M42, is a diffuse nebula situated south of Orion's Belt in the Orion constellation. It's 1,500 light years away from Earth and is 24 light years wide. The nebula can be seen with the naked eye near the constellation Orion. It is the closest region of massive star formation to Earth and has a mass about 2000 times that of the sun. The Orion Nebula is one of the most photographed objects in the light sky and it has revealed a lot about how stars are created from collapsing clouds of gas and dust.

'This shower occurs every year but it is hard to capture. These fragments can either be the size of a pebble or quite large.

'You've got to be lucky to see something like this. It's a once in a lifetime moment. Its amazing to think they could have been orbiting the sun for millions of years.

'The camera I use is outside my home all year round - I have it running from dusk till dawn. I'm constantly on the look-out as I'm into meteor astronomy. I've captured smaller meteorites but never anything as big and as bright as this.'

He continued: 'I've been into it for about 48 years. - I grew up as a child watching Sir Patrick Moore's BBC Sky at Night TV programme and became friends with him since I was 11.

'My scientific background as an analytical chemist blended well with an interest in astronomy and astrophotography and since retiring in 2016 I've had more time to pursue the hobby.'

High-speed: It would have been travelling faster than a bullet as it entered the atmosphere

Impressive: Amateur astronomer Derek Robson, 58, was asleep when his camera recorded the meteor shooting across the sky at 5.07am on November 10

Meanwhile, Dr Robert Massey, deputy executive director of the Royal Astronomical Society, confirmed the footage appeared to show a genuine meteor.

He said: 'These events do occur at various times of the year but to capture on on camera like this is very lucky.

'They are difficult to predict, so witnessing one or capturing it on camera is a matter of being in the right place at the right time.

'Kudos to the photographer for capturing this.

'It would have been travelling faster than a bullet as it entered the earths atmosphere and burnt out pretty quickly.'

====== 1434 ========

ARE YOU A FACEBOOK ADDICT? NEW FEATURE SHOWS USERS HOW MUCH TIME THEY REALLY ARE SPENDING IN THE APP

Facebook has launched tools to help app addicts manage their time on the platform.

The features appear on a new 'How long do I spend on Facebook' dashboard, which was first announced in August.

It comes after Instagram launched its own time management tools last week.

Scroll down for video

Facebook has launched tools to help app addicts manage their time on the site. The features appear on a new 'How long do I spend on Facebook' dashboard, first announced in August

To try it out, users click on the 'hamburger' button in the far-right corner of the app, then navigate to the 'Settings & Privacy' section.

There, users click on the 'Your Time on Facebook' header.

The dashboard lets users see how much time they're spending on the app each day throughout the week.

Users tap and press down on a specific day to see the average minutes or hours they used the Facebook app.

From there, they can set a daily time limit and receive a reminder when their allotted time has expired.

To try it, users click on the 'hamburger' button in the far-right corner of the app, then navigate to the 'Settings & Privacy' section. There, users click on the 'Your Time on Facebook' header

There's shortcuts to manage News Feed settings, which allows users to limit certain posts from appearing on their feed, as well as Friend Request settings.

It also gives users the option to mute push notifications on their device from the Facebook app when they need to focus.

The new dashboard should already be available in the Facebook app for most users.

Facebook first previewed these features in August, when it launched a broader 'time well-spent' initiative, in tandem with new time management tools for Instagram users.

'We want the time people spend on Facebook and Instagram to be intentional, positive and inspiring,' Facebook wrote in a blog post.

Instagram has begun rolling out a new dashboard that shows you how many hours you spend using Instagram each day and even set time limits so that you don't become too addicted

'Our hope is that these tools give people more control over the time they spend on our platforms and also foster conversations between parents and teens about the online habits that are right for them.'

Instagram's time management tools are similar, allowing users to set daily limits, see how much time they're spending in the app and manage notifications.

====== 1435 ========

RELIGION IS COMPATIBLE WITH SCIENCE: EARLY SCIENTIFIC WORKS WERE MOTIVATED BY A BELIEF IN GOD

The debate about science and religion is usually viewed as a competition between worldviews.

However, in a piece for The Conversation, Professor David N Livingstone and Professor John Hedley Brooke look at the great diversity of ways in which science and religion have worked together.

They argue that early scientific works were motivated by a belief in God and that the two disciplines still enrich each other.

They believe that sciences may provide answers to questions once asked within the faith traditions, concluding that these two disciplines complement each other as much as they conflict.

The debate about science and religion is usually viewed as a competition between worldviews. Throughout history, many have argued that science and religion are inescapably at war (stock)

In his 2015 book Faith versus Fact, the biologist and polemicist Jerry Coyne launched one of his many attacks on religion in the name of science: science and religion, he wrote, are 'incompatible in precisely the same way and in the same sense that rationality is incompatible with irrationality'.

These sorts of generalities have been quite common down the years, often reinforced by references to the condemnation of Galileo by the Roman Catholic Church in 1633 or the altercation in Oxford in 1860 between T H Huxley and bishop Samuel Wilberforce over evolution.

These sorts of statement can also have repercussions in public life. On September 16 2008, Professor Michael Reiss, an evolutionary biologist, resigned as director of education for the Royal Society.

What brought about his removal were observations he'd made about how science teachers should treat questions about origins in schools. He is reported to have said: 'Creationism is best seen by scientists not as a misconception, but as a world view.'

Shortly before Reiss turned in his resignation, the Nobel Prize winner Sir Richard Roberts had written to the president of the Royal Society, Sir Martin Rees, demanding 'that Professor Reiss step down, or be asked to step down, as soon as possible'.

'We gather Professor Reiss is a clergyman, which in itself is very worrisome,' the letter went on:

'Who on earth thought that he would be an appropriate Director of Education, who could be expected to answer questions about the differences between science and religion in a scientific, reasoned way?'

Commenting on the whole episode in the New Scientist, Sir Harold Kroto, another Nobel laureate, observed:

'There is no way that an ordained minister – for whom unverified dogma must represent a major, if not the major, pillar in their lives – can present free-thinking, doubt-based scientific philosophy honestly or disinterestedly. '

Complications

Enshrined in these assertions is the assumption that science and religion are inescapably at war.

And yet we must ask whether this assumption can possibly do justice to the great diversity of ways in which the relations between science and religion have been understood.

Pictured are clerks studying astronomy and geometry. In a piece for The Conversation , Professor David N Livingstone and Professor John Hedley Brooke look at the great diversity of ways in which the relations between science and religion have been understood

There are many sciences, many religions. A scientific innovation problematic for one religious tradition may be irrelevant to another. One science may pose a threat to religious beliefs when other sciences do not.

Arguing for an essential conflict between science and religion fails because, as the philosopher John Gray has written, terms such as 'religion' and 'atheism' have no essence.

The sciences may sometimes provide answers to questions once asked within the faith traditions – but they also leave space for religious enquiry and commitment.

How do we prioritise competing scientific research projects? With limited resources we must ask what is more important for h mankind.

But these are not scientific questions – as the historian Noah Yuval Harari identifies in his best-seller Sapiens, only religions and ideologies seek to answer them: 'Scientific research can flourish only in alliance with some religion or ideology.'

Because science and religion can complement one another as well as come into conflict, the story of their interrelations is complex.

Flash points and trading zones

Looking back over history, we certainly find many occasions when science and religion have been in conflict. Call these flash points. Among these is the rejection of miracles by those convinced that nature is bound by unbreakable natural laws.

Or the denial of human freedom by those who see the human mind as nothing more than the workings of brain chemistry.

In the early 17th century some Catholics found new theories of matter disturbing because of the challenges they posed to their understanding of the Eucharist.

For some Jews, the ban on astrology between 200AD and 500AD stifled astronomical inquiry. For biblical literalists, Darwinian evolution routinely provokes an oppositional stance.

In the 17th century, scientific instruments such as the telescope and microscope were conceived as ways of reversing the effects of Adam's fall from grace. Pictured is a 40-foot telescope made by astronomer William Herschel

On the other hand, we can identify many points of conciliation and enrichment. Think of these as trading zones.

Take the biblical idea that all humankind is descended from a single source. This belief inspired the search for the beginnings of human language and for the routes by which early humans diffused across the globe.

In the 17th century, scientific instruments such as the telescope and microscope were conceived as ways of reversing the effects of Adam's fall from grace.

Scientific methods and instruments were devised as a means for ameliorating the damage to human cognitive powers and sensory apparatus believed to have been brought about by human sinfulness.

Or consider the whole matter of design in the world. This idea was fundamental to the development of the science of ecology.

ARE WE HEADING FOR A GODLESS FUTURE? Graham Lawton, author of the new book 'How to be Human,' suggests that as our lives become more stable, society could become 'godless' as our need for religion fades away. When children encounter religion, Mr Lawson argues they find the explanations it offers intuitively appealing and believable - making them born believers - but this instinct is drummed out of them by education. The author claimed the reason people continue to be believe it because 'they haven't thought that hard about it'. However, although the future will be increasingly secular, humans will never totally lose the god instinct. As long as existential uncertainty exists Mr Lawton claims religion will not disappear completely - even though he believes some of the things in the bible are 'just crazy'. People cling onto moral guidance and existential comfort and they don't let go of them easily, he said. His comments are based on the cognitive theory of religion which states that belief is a by-product of our cognitive equipment. Our brain is primed to see meaning everywhere, which helps us make sense of random events. Children like the idea that there is order and design in the world and it is actually useful as it allows them to reason about possible threats that we cannot see, for example a predator lurking in a nearby bush. According to Mr Lawton, although this is an evolutionary advantage, it also facilitates the build-up of delusional belief and a ‘feeling of rightness’. 'To be an actual atheist and reject all religious ideas is not humanly possible - we'll still fill that hole with something’, said Mr Lawton. As long as existential uncertainty exists, Mr Lawton claims religion will not disappear completely.

Key early works of natural history which stressed the intimate connections between organisms and their environments were motivated in good part by a belief that God had fitted animals and plants to the environmental regimes in which they were located.

In our own day, there may well be benefits to be derived from a dialogue between theological anthropology and those advocating transhumanism.

New technological possibilities are raising profound questions about what it means to be human, a subject on which theologians have had much to say.

At the very least, theology might prove to be a useful conversational partner in articulating values by which to adjudicate among the human capacities that might be prioritised for enhancement.

The survival of religion

With their different sources of authority, the potential for tension, divergence, even animosity between representatives of scientific and religious communities will always be there.

But tension, divergence, animosity – even conflict – are not the same as inevitable warfare. Many religious people have been indifferent to science.

Many scientists have experienced alienation from religion. Mutual suspicion is not uncommon. But, again, indifference, alienation and suspicion are not the same as warfare.

The very words 'science' and 'religion' have undergone profound changes of meaning.

Not until the second half of the 19th century did 'science' become a convenient umbrella to capture an expanding range of specialised empirical enquiries, supposedly – but not always actually – united by a common 'scientific method'.

Can religions survive in technological societies? They already have – and for an important reason. They confer identity and seek to find meaning in events, to interpret the universe, not primarily to explain it.

As Terry Eagleton memorably put it: 'The blunder of believing that religion is a botched attempt to explain the world … is like seeing ballet as a botched attempt to run for a bus.'

====== 1436 ========

FACEBOOK IS FORCED TO DISABLE ITS 'INAPPROPRIATE' GENERIC AUTO-REPLIES

Facebook has been branded heartless after offering up auto-replies in response to live coverage of a shooting.

The social media giant has been branded 'toxic tech' after providing canned responses such as 'so sad' for users to pick from after the hospital shooting in Chicago on Monday.

The feature has been dubbed 'inappropriate' by users and has now been turned off after outcry at the firm's insensitivity towards tragic events.

Scroll down for video

Facebook have been branded heartless after offering up auto-replies in response to a live video of a shooting. The social media giant has been branded 'toxic tech' after providing canned responses such as 'so sad' after the hospital shooting in Chicago on Monday.

The shooting at the Chicago hospital killed four people including a police officer who had been planning a wedding.

Thousands watched the live stream of the breaking news on the platform where a live shooter was firing at random in the hospital.

The feature prompted users to click generic condolences including 'heartbreaking' and 'what happened?' instead of writing their own sympathetic messages.

Facebook users who took to Twitter to complain at the presence of the automated feature.

One wrote: 'Toxic tech at its peak'.

Another said: 'Auto-response to tragedy...where do Facebook find these idiots?'

One gadget blogger at Next Web wrote: 'Clicking the comment field accompanying live video allows you to select one of several heart-felt replies — so heart-felt, in fact, that Facebook actually took away the trouble of having to feel it at all.'

Facebook generates the responses themselves. Other automated comments include 'stay safe', 'Hope everyone is OK' , while others are just stand alone emojis such as the 'prayer' emoticon.

The company had been testing the auto-response feature on live video streams including those involving sensitive situations like shootings and sexual assault.

The social media giant have been called 'toxic tech' for suggesting users click on automated replies rather than writing their own sympathies after Facebook showed live coverage of the Chicago hospital shooting

A Facebook spokesperson told MailOnline: 'We have been testing a suggested comment feature on Live videos.

'Clearly this wasn't implemented properly and we have disabled this feature for now.'

Facebook generates the responses themselves possibly by monitoring what other users have written or by looking at the content of the video. Other automated comments include 'stay safe', 'Hope everyone is OK' while others are stand alone emojis such as the prayer emoticon

Buzzfeed News reported that live coverage of a man who sexually assaulted at least three women outside a Catholic supply store before fatally shooting a woman on Monday provoked the feature to suggest phrases like 'unbelievable' and 'respect'.

It also suggested several emoticons, including a sweating head, an embarrassed face and a crying face.

Facebook have since turned the feature off and said that the test was not implemented properly. A Facebook spokesperson told MailOnline: 'We have been testing a suggested comment feature on Live videos. Clearly this wasn't implemented properly and we have disabled this feature for now.'

It is not clear how the system works but it could be that Facebook monitors how people are responding to the coverage to generate similar responses.

Another possibility is that the algorithm automatically tracks the content, title and description of the video and using existing data, generates the appropriate response.

====== 1437 ========

NASA TO REVIEW WORKPLACE SAFETY CULTURE AT SPACEX AND BOEING

NASA is planning to review the workplace safety culture at SpaceX and Boeing Co, as the two companies gear up to fly astronauts to the International Space Station.

The space agency said it would conduct a 'cultural assessment study' of the companies, 'including the adherence to a drug-free environment,' prior to crew test flights scheduled to take place in the coming months.

It comes just months after SpaceX boss Elon Musk faced backlash for smoking what appeared to be marijuana during a live podcast hosted by Joe Rogan.

According to a new report, the decision to launch the review was directly sparked by the CEO's behavior.

Scroll down for video

NASA is planning to review the workplace safety culture at SpaceX and Boeing Co, as the two companies gear up to fly astronauts to the International Space Station. A report from the Washington Post claims the decision was sparked by Elon Musk's recent behavior

'We fully expect our commercial partners to meet all workplace safety requirements in the execution of our missions,' said NASA in a statement.

NASA did not give further details on the reasons behind the move, but the Washington Post, which first reported it, said the review was prompted by the recent behavior of SpaceX's founder Elon Musk.

The Washington Post says it spoke with three officials who have knowledge of the investigation.

SpaceX and Boeing are the two main contractors selected under NASA's commercial crew program to send astronauts to space as soon as 2019, using their Dragon and Starliner spacecraft respectively.

Musk was filmed drinking whiskey and briefly smoking marijuana during a live podcast in September.

While a NASA spokesperson declined to comment, NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine told the Washington Post is hoping to secure the public's confidence ahead of the upcoming crewed launches.

'If I see something that’s inappropriate, the key concern to me is what is the culture that led to that inappropriateness and is NASA involved in that,' Bridenstine told the Washington Post.

'As an agency we’re not just leading ourselves, but our contractors, as well.

'We need to show the American public that when we put an astronaut on a rocket, they’ll be safe.'

Boeing (Starliner pictured left) plans to fly an uncrewed mission early next year, with plans to add crew mid-2019. SpaceX is currently eyeing November 2018 for its first demo mission with the Crew Dragon (right), followed by its first crewed flight to the ISS in April 2019

NASA has revealed the nine astronauts that will soon take to space aboard the Boeing CST-100 Starliner and SpaceX Crew Dragon. From left: Suni Williams, Josh Cassada, Eric Boe, Nicole Mann, Chris Ferguson, Doug Hurley, Bob Behnken, Mike Hopkins, Victor Glover

Boeing said in an emailed statement that it was committed to mission success as NASA's partner, while ensuring the integrity, safety and quality of its products, its people and their work environment.

SpaceX said it actively promoted a safe work environment.

'We are confident that our comprehensive drug-free workforce and workplace programs exceed all applicable contractual requirements,' SpaceX said in a statement sent to Reuters.

WHEN DID NASA LAST LAUNCH CREWED MISSIONS FROM THE US? Shuttle Columbia is shown during lift-off from the Kennedy Space Center in 2003 NASA launched its first space shuttle, Space Shuttle Columbia (STS-1), from the Kennedy Space Center on April 12, 1981. In the three decades that followed, the space agency deployed a total of 135 missions from US soil. Columbia was only the beginning; following in its footsteps, NASA launched Challenger, Discovery, Atlantis, and Endeavor to carry people to orbit. These launches also allowed for the construction of the International Space Station – the largest structure in space, that’s now home to a revolving crew of astronauts from all around the world, conducting important experiments that continue to advance our knowledge of the cosmos. The shuttle missions came to an end with the Atlantis shuttle on July 21, 2011 after STS-135. In the years since, NASA has had to rely on Russian modules to send astronauts to the ISS, all of which launch from foreign soil. Now, the space agency is stepping up efforts to bring crewed launches back home. On August 3, 2018, NASA revealed the nine astronauts that will soon take to space aboard the Boeing CST-100 Starliner and SpaceX Crew Dragon, to pioneer a ‘new era in American spaceflight.’ The crew flight tests will launch from the Kennedy Space Center in 2019. The shuttle missions came to an end with the Atlantis shuttle on July 21, 2011 after STS-135. Above, Atlantis lands at the Kennedy Space Center at Cape Canaveral, Fl, marking the official end of the 30-year program

NASA revealed the nine astronauts that will take to space aboard the Boeing CST-100 Starliner and SpaceX Crew Dragon earlier this year.

With the two new capsules, NASA will finally be able to launch crewed missions from US soil for the first time in nearly a decade.

SpaceX and Boeing's first Commercial Crew flight tests will be led by astronauts: Eric Boe, Chris Ferguson, Nicole Aunapu Mann, Bob Behnken, Doug Hurley, Josh Cassada, Suni Williams, Victor Glover, and Mike Hopkins.

For astronauts Cassada and Mann, the milestone missions will also mark their first ever space flights.

====== 1438 ========

NASA'S MARS SIMULATOR IN HAWAII WILL CONVERT TO A MOCK MOONBASE AFTER AGENCY SUSPENDS THE PROGRAM

A dome on a remote Hawaiian volcano is being transformed from a Mars simulator into the home of mock Moon missions.

The site was once the site of the HI-SEAS (Hawaii Space Exploration Analog and Simulation) mission, where a crew of six scientists lived in isolation for eight months, carrying on as if they were actually on the red planet.

Now, after a brief hiatus, a new crew will be moving into a desolate slope of the Mauna Loa volcano.

Scroll down for video

A dome on a remote Hawaiian volcano is being transformed from a Mars simulator into the home of mock Moon missions. It was located on a desolate part of the Mauna Loa volcano

THE HI-SEAS MISSION The Hi-Seas (Hawaii Space Exploration Analog and Simulation) mission's crews spend months 8,500 feet above sea level in a geodesic-dome habitat on the northern slope of the Mauna Loa volcano. The volcano is a barren landscape, an abandoned quarry with little vegetation that's as similar to Mars' landscape as planet Earth can get. The crew members live under Mars-like conditions. According to Hi-Seas 'communication latencies and blackouts, in close quarters, under strict water-use rules, etc' are part of the deal. The food study was designed to test food preparation strategies for long-term space exploration. Hi-Seas aims to address problems that may be encountered in future space missions by simulating exploration in areas of the world similar to space environments. The aim of the mission, funded by Nasa's Human Research Program, the University of Hawaii and Cornell University, is to learn about living sustainably on Mars.

The most recent HI-SEAS mission, the Mission VI crew, faced some obstacles just four days after it began in February.

A crew member was taken to a hospital after they suffered from an electric shock while troubleshooting during a power outage, the Atlantic reported.

The rest of the crew was evacuated and one member ultimately withdrew, causing them to put the program on hold.

In its wake, Henk Rogers, who built the habitat, thought about what to do next.

He decided a Moon simulator would make the most sense.

'I describe it like this: You’ve just invented a canoe and you’re sitting on Maui and you’re looking at Lanai, which is right next door, and someone says, hey, let’s row to England,' Rogers, a Dutch entrepreneur, told the Atlantic.

'I’m saying let’s row to Lanai first. Let’s learn how to live on the moon before we start trying to live on Mars.'

Since then, Rogers has completely overhauled the dome by installing new floors, putting in new furniture, replacing old astronaut suits and adding an automatic generator, so as to prevent the kind of accident experienced by the crew member in Mission VI.

The first test simulations for the Moon mission are set to begin next week and will last about two days.

Actual simulations are expected to begin in 2020 and will last several weeks.

The most recent HI-SEAS mission, the Mission VI crew, faced some obstacles just four days after it began, when a crew member suffered from an electric shock and was taken to hospital

The moon simulation will operate similarly to the Mars simulation.

Scientists will have to keep track of the power, water, food and composting toilet systems in the habitat and will have to put on astronaut suits before they leave the dome, according to the Atlantic.

The crew will be largely disconnected from the outside world, except, unlike the Mars mission, which required crew members to wait out a 20 minute delay for sending and receiving emails, the new crew will only have to wait three seconds.

But they won't have many other Earth-like comforts restored.

Pictured are the six members of the Mission VI crew after they emerged from an eight-month simulation of what it would be like to live on Mars. The mission ended in 2017

Pictured is the Mars-like habitat near the Mauna Loa volcano. The study was designed to better understand the psychological impacts of a long-term manned mission to space on astronauts

They'll still have to eat freeze-dried meals and take 30 second showers to save water.

Rogers also plans on installing cameras in common areas of the dome and is even considering starting a livestream that interested members of the public can tune into.

'You could say that we’ve turned hi-seas into a high-end moon AirBnB,' he told the Atlantic.

However, unlike the Mars mission, the crew will be treated more like researchers instead of lab rats, the Atlantic explained.

HI-SEAS Crew members are seen with their food inventory in a dome in Mauna Loa, Hawaii, during the simulated Mars mission experiment. Many crew members ate freeze-dried meals

Crews will also rotate in and out once the mission begins.

They'll conduct a variety of research and experiments, as well as test novel technologies that could help humans survive on the lunar surface.

The lunar simulations come as many are interested in launching another mission to the moon.

NASA hopes to put a robotic spacecraft on the moon within the next year, as well as astronauts on the moon in roughly 10 years.

====== 1439 ========

REMBRANDT PAINTING OF JESUS WILL GO ON SALE FOR £6M AFTER ARTIST'S 'FINGERPRINTS' ARE SPOTTED

Fingerprints thought to be those of the legendary artist Rembrandt have been discovered in a small oil sketch dating back almost 400 years.

Study Of A Head Of A Young Man, which measures just over 25cm (10 inches) high, is expected to fetch about £6 million ($7.8m) when it is auctioned in London next month.

And, buried in the original layer of paint, in the lower edge of the 'powerful and touching' 17th century portrait, is what are believed to be the Dutch master's thumbprints.

No other prints by the painter, said to be the 'foremost master of the Western artistic tradition', have ever been found.

Scroll down for video

Study Of A Head Of A Young Man (pictured), measuring just over 25cm (10 inches) high, is expected to fetch about £6 million ($7.8m) when it is auctioned in London next month

The fingerprints were uncovered during a process of technical examination and restoration, which included pigment analyses, X-ray and infra-red imaging, just before the painting went on display in the US and the Louvre, in Paris, in 2011-12.

George Gordon, worldwide co-chairman of Sotheby's Old Master paintings, the auction house which will be putting the work under the hammer, called the find an 'extraordinary discovery'.

He told the Press Association that, from the placing of the thumbprints, it was possible to imagine the painting being 'picked up with their fingers behind it and their thumbs on the lower edge'.

'You often get finger and thumbprints in the varnish of painting, but that doesn't really tell you anything of interest. This is in the original paint.

'This shows that Rembrandt was happy with the painting while it was still wet. He painted it very quickly,' he said.

Rembrandt van Rijn (1606 – 1669) was one of the world's greatest painters and an important figure in Dutch history.

Known for his self-portraits and biblical scenes, his early work was small but rich in detail; religious and allegorical themes were prominent.

He then moved to use light, leaving large areas of his paintings obscured in shadow.

Buried in a layer of paint, in the lower edge of the 'powerful and touching' 17th century portrait, experts found what are believed to be the Dutch master's thumbprints (pictured)

WHO WAS REMBRANDT? Rembrandt van Rijn (1606 – 1669) was one of the world's greatest painters and an important figure in Dutch history. Known for his self-portraits and biblical scenes, his early work was small but rich in detail; religious and allegorical themes were prominent. He then moved to use light, leaving large areas of his paintings obscured in shadow. Starting in 1628, Rembrandt took on students, and is believed to have had around 50. Often blamed for Rembrandt's supposed downfall are the death of his wife and the supposed rejection of a painting called the Nigth Watch by those who commissioned it.

Asked how certain experts were that the fingerprints were Rembrandt's, he said: 'We can't be 100 per cent sure.

'But what is certain is that it is somebody that picked up the painting as soon as it was finished.'

He said: 'While as far as we know no comparable finger or thumbprints of Rembrandt have been found in other works to confirm the conclusion, the discovery of the marks in the original layer of paint.... make their connection to the artist highly credible.'

He said that the portrait, dating from around 1655, has a 'spiritual and emotional impact'.

'We know he worked really quickly and you can also see and feel it in this painting,' he said.

'When Rembrandt applies thick layers of paint, some of the colour leaches through.

'It has an intense visceral quality and is astonishingly well preserved.'

He added: 'I suspect people will now look for fingerprints in other paintings.'

Michel van de Laar, a conservator in Amsterdam who helped lead the research, said: 'The work was also determined to have been executed in one sitting.

Rembrandt van Rijn (1606 – 1669) (pictured) was one of the world's greatest painters and an important figure in Dutch history

'The discovery of the fingerprints is further testament to the speed with which the work was likely executed and provides fresh insight into Rembrandt's complex but swift painting technique.'

Study Of A Head Of A Young Man portrays Rembrandt's model as Jesus, with his hands clasped in prayer.

It has been praised for the artist's ability to 'render human emotions'.

Sotheby's London Old Masters Evening Sale takes place on December 5.

The painting will go on display at Sotheby's London from November 30.

====== 1440 ========

SKELETON OF ANCIENT EGYPTIAN WOMAN WHO DIED DURING CHILDBIRTH HAS BEEN FOUND BURIED WITH HER FOETUS

The skeleton of an ancient Egyptian woman who tragically died during childbirth has been found alongside her unborn baby.

The woman, who died 3,700 years ago at the age of 25, was in the final weeks of pregnancy and officials believe she died following the start of labour.

She was buried in a graveyard used between 1750 BC and 1550 BC by nomadic people travelling north into the region of Nubia.

Scroll down for video

The skeleton of an ancient Egyptian woman who tragically died during childbirth has been found alongside her tiny foetus (pictured)

Experts from Yale University and the University of Bologna found the remains at the Kom Ombo archaeological project in Aswan, around 530 miles (852km) from Cairo.

Mustafa Waziri, Secretary-General of the Supreme Council of Antiquities, said that the cemetery was used by travellers during the second transition period, between 1750 and 1550 BC.

The foetus is already in the birthing position with its head-down within the woman's pelvis.

Experts say the woman seems to have been suffering from a fracture that was not treated correctly and most likely led to her death.

The woman's skeleton was wrapped in a leather shroud and surrounded by pottery, including an Egyptian jar that was worn out it had been used so much.

The woman, who died 3,700 years ago at the age of 25, was in the final weeks of her pregnancy and officials believe she died following the start of labour. She was also buried with beads made from an ostrich egg (pictured)

The woman's skeleton was wrapped in a leather shroud and buried with lots of pottery, including an Egyptian jar (pictured) that was worn out it had been used so much

She was buried with a polished red and black container that were made in ancient Nubia at the time.

She was also buried with beads made from an ostrich egg.

These objects were laid with her body by family members in order to honour her memory.

Just earlier this month Egyptian archaeologists discovered a pottery workshop in Kom Ombo that dated back 4,500 years.

The find - which included a stone pottery wheel - provided a glimpse into daily life from millenia ago.

Just earlier this month Egyptian archaeologists discovered a pottery workshop in Kom Ombo that dated back 4,500 years

The workshop was built during the Fourth Dynasty of ancient Egypt (between 2613 and 2494 BC), a statement said, the same period in which the famous pyramids of Giza were constructed.

'It is one of the rare finds that sheds light on daily life, industrial activities and the development of art in ancient Egypt,' Mr Waziri said in the statement.

He said it showed 'the improvement and adaptation' of tools during the period as people 'responded to the demands of daily life'.

====== 1441 ========

AIR FILTER THAT YOU STICK UP YOUR NOSE BLOCKS 90% OF POLLUTION PARTICLES

A pollution filter that you jam up your nose has been invented by US engineers.

The O2 Nose Filter sits in your nostrils and blocks 90 per cent of large pollution particles and 70 per cent of finer particles from entering the lungs.

Largely sold in the US, the device costs $13 (£10) for a pack of ten and is 'almost invisible', providing a more discreet form of protection than a filter face mask.

It could help tackle the effects of the pollution crisis that plagues modern cities, with dirty air now thought to kill around nine million people per year worldwide.

Scroll down for video

A pollution filter that you stick up your nose has been invented by US engineers. The O2 Nose Filter sits in your nostrils and blocks 90 per cent of large pollution particles and 70 per cent of finer particles from entering the lungs

'O2 nose filters create a safer, cleaner personal air zone with protection from airborne pollution, allergens, bacteria and more,' its creators say on their website.

'They make your cities safer, making air travel cleaner and keeping your body away from harm.'

Each filter can be worn for up to 12 hours and uses electrostatic filters to capture air particulates and more.

But unlike face masks, the nose filter will not stop pollutants from entering the lungs through your mouth.

Air pollution is an increasing concern among urban residents, and a host of recent research has revealed the shocking effects pollutants have on our health.

A report on Monday claimed that people around the world are losing more than a year of their lives to air pollution.

Largely sold in the US, the device costs $13 (£10) for a pack of ten and is 'almost invisible', providing a more discreet form of protection than a filter face mask

The study from the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago (EPIC) found that pollution takes an average of 1.8 years of people's lives around the globe.

The World Health Organisation (WHO) released guidelines over a decade ago suggesting maximum 'healthy' levels of air pollution.

But as of right now, almost every low- and middle-income country and half of high income ones are 'unhealthy.'

The effects of pollution are most devastating in the most crowded cities in the most populous countries - India and China.

Americans, too, would live longer if the country complied with the World Health Organisation's pollution recommendations, but have managed to get back about a year and a half of lie expectancy thanks to clean air policies, the new report found.

The filter's creators aim to help tackle the pollution crisis that plagues modern cities, with dirty air now thought to kill around nine million people per year worldwide. Pictured is smog over London's skyline

====== 1442 ========

REVOLUTIONARY STAR-TREK INSPIRED 'ION PROPULSION' PLANE ENGINE UNVEILED FOR THE FIRST TIME

A revolutionary electronic aircraft propulsion system inspired by Star Trek has been tested on a working model for the first time.

The five metre (16ft) wingspan glider-like plane has no propellers, turbines or any other moving parts, and is completely silent.

Instead, an 'ionic wind' of colliding electrically charged air molecules provides the thrust needed to make it fly.

It could eventually prove to be the future of air travel, bringing an end to the noise nightmare of living under a flight path or close to a major airport.

And unlike conventional planes, it also produces no greenhouse gases or other pollutants.

Scroll down for video

A revolutionary electronic aircraft propulsion system inspired by Star Trek has been tested on a working model for the first time

HOW DOES IT WORK? The test aircraft carries an array of thin wires strung beneath the front end of its wings. These wires, which carry a positive charge of 20,000 volts, strips electrons, which have a negative charge, from air molecules. The cloud of positively charged molecules left behind rush towards negatively charged wires at the back of the plane. As they flow towards the negative charge, the ions collide millions of times with other air molecules, creating the thrust that pushes the aircraft forward. One of the biggest challenges was designing a power supply that would generate 40,000 volts from the plane's battery output. The team is working on ways of producing more ionic wind with less voltage.

In the tests, the battery-powered unmanned aircraft, that weighs just five pounds, managed sustained flights of 60 metres (197ft) at an average height of just 0.47 metres (18 inches).

But its inventors believe that, like the early experiments of the Wright brothers more than 100 years ago, such small beginnings will eventually transform the face of aviation.

In the near future, ion wind propulsion could be employed to power quiet drones, the team predicts.

Further down the line, the technology could be paired with more conventional propulsion systems to produce highly fuel efficient hybrid passenger planes.

Lead researcher Dr Steven Barrett, from Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the US, said: 'This is the first-ever sustained flight of a plane with no moving parts in the propulsion system.

'This has potentially opened new and unexplored possibilities for aircraft which are quieter, mechanically simpler, and do not emit combustion emissions.'

He revealed that he was partly inspired by the TV sci-fi series Star Trek, which he watched avidly as a child.

He was especially impressed by the show's futuristic shuttle crafts that skimmed through the air producing hardly any noise or exhaust.

'This made me think, in the long-term future, planes shouldn't have propellers and turbines,' said Dr Barrett.

The five metre (16ft) wingspan glider-like plane has no propellers, turbines or any other moving parts, and is completely silent. Instead, an 'ionic wind' of colliding electrically charged air molecules provides the thrust needed to make it fly

The test aircraft carries an array of thin wires strung beneath the front end of its wings. These wires strip electrons, which have a negative charge, from air molecules

'They should be more like the shuttles in Star Trek that have just a blue glow and silently glide.'

The test aircraft, described in the journal Nature, carries an array of thin wires strung beneath the front end of its wings.

These wires, which carry a positive charge of 20,000 volts, strips electrons, which have a negative charge, from air molecules.

The cloud of positively charged molecules left behind rush towards negatively charged wires at the back of the plane.

As they flow towards the negative charge, the ions collide millions of times with other air molecules, creating the thrust that pushes the aircraft forward.

The test aircraft, described in the journal Nature, carries an array of thin wires strung beneath the front end of its wings. These wires, which carry a positive charge of 20,000 volts, strips electrons, which have a negative charge, from air molecules

The cloud of positively charged molecules left behind rush towards negatively charged wires at the back of the plane

It could eventually prove to be the future of air travel, bringing an end to the noise nightmare of living under a flight path or close to a major airport. And unlike conventional planes, it also produces no greenhouse gases or other pollutants

In the tests, the battery-powered unmanned aircraft, that weighs just five pounds, managed sustained flights of 60 metres (197ft) at an average height of just 0.47 metres (18 inches)

One of the biggest challenges was designing a power supply that would generate 40,000 volts from the plane's battery output.

The team is working on ways of producing more ionic wind with less voltage.

Test flights were made across the gymnasium at MIT's duPont Athletic Centre, the largest indoor space the scientists could find.

Dr Barrett said: 'It took a long time to get here. Going from the basic principle to something that actually flies was a long journey of characterising the physics, then coming up with the design and making it work.

'Now the possibilities for this kind of propulsion system are viable.'

====== 1443 ========

NASA SPACECRAFT SET FOR RISKY LANDING ON MARS NEXT WEEK AFTER SIX-MONTH JOURNEY THROUGH SPACE

Mars is about to get its first U.S. visitor in years: a three-legged, one-armed geologist to dig deep and listen for quakes.

NASA's InSight makes its grand entrance through the rose-tinted Martian skies on Monday, after a six-month, 300 million-mile (480 million-kilometer) journey.

It will be the first American spacecraft to land since the Curiosity rover in 2012 and the first dedicated to exploring underground.

Scroll down for video

The illustration shows the InSight lander drilling into the surface of Mars. InSight, short for Interior Exploration using Seismic Investigations, Geodesy and Heat Transport, is scheduled to arrive at the planet on Monday, Nov. 26

NASA is going with a tried-and-true method to get this mechanical miner to the surface of the red planet.

Engine firings will slow its final descent and the spacecraft will plop down on its rigid legs, mimicking the landings of earlier successful missions.

That's where old school ends on this $1 billion U.S.-European effort .

Once flight controllers in California determine the coast is clear at the landing site - fairly flat and rock free - InSight's 6-foot (1.8-meter) arm will remove the two main science experiments from the lander's deck and place them directly on the Martian surface.

No spacecraft has attempted anything like that before. The firsts don't stop there.

One experiment will attempt to penetrate 16 feet (5 meters) into Mars, using a self-hammering nail with heat sensors to gauge the planet's internal temperature.

That would shatter the out-of-this-world depth record of 8 feet (2 ½ meters) drilled by the Apollo moonwalkers nearly a half-century ago for lunar heat measurements.

The astronauts also left behind instruments to measure moonquakes. InSight carries the first seismometers to monitor for marsquakes - if they exist.

NASA's one-armed geologist known as InSight makes its grand entrance through the rose-tinted Martian skies on Monday. Above, the mobile service tower is rolled back to reveal the United Launch Alliance Atlas-V rocket in May, with NASA's InSight spacecraft onboard

HOW WILL INSIGHT LAND ON MARS? Before the InSight lander can begin its job on Mars, it will have to survive a treacherous re-entry and landing through the planet's atmosphere. After travelling over 300 million miles in space and reaching the martian atmosphere, the InSight spacecraft only has seven minutes to land safely on the surface — often referred to as the most treacherous stage of the mission, according to the agency. It will reach up to 14,000 miles per hour as it descends through the atmosphere.

Yet another experiment will calculate Mars' wobble, providing clues about the planet's core.

It won't be looking for signs of life, past or present. No life detectors are on board.

The spacecraft is like a self-sufficient robot, said lead scientist Bruce Banerdt of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.

'It's got its own brain. It's got an arm that can manipulate things around. It can listen with its seismometer.

'It can feel things with the pressure sensors and the temperature sensors. It pulls its own power out of the sun,' he said.

By scoping out the insides of Mars, scientists could learn how our neighbor - and other rocky worlds, including the Earth and moon - formed and transformed over billions of years.

Mars is much less geologically active than Earth, and so its interior is closer to being in its original state - a tantalizing time capsule.

Pictured, a technician prepares the InSight spacecraft in 2015 for thermal vacuum testing in its 'cruise' configuration for its flight to Mars, simulating the conditions of outer space at Lockheed Martin Space Systems in Denver

InSight stands to 'revolutionize the way we think about the inside of the planet,' said NASA's science mission chief, Thomas Zurbuchen.

But first, the 800-pound (360-kilogram) vehicle needs to get safely to the Martian surface.

This time, there won't be a ball bouncing down with the spacecraft tucked inside, like there were for the Spirit and Opportunity rovers in 2004.

And there won't be a sky crane to lower the lander like there was for the six-wheeled Curiosity during its dramatic 'seven minutes of terror.'

'That was crazy,' acknowledged InSight's project manager, Tom Hoffman.

But he noted, 'Any time you're trying to land on Mars, it's crazy, frankly. I don't think there's a sane way to do it.'

No matter how it's done, getting to Mars and landing there is hard - and unforgiving.

Earth's success rate at Mars is a mere 40 percent. That includes planetary flybys dating back to the early 1960s, as well as orbiters and landers.

INSIGHT'S THREE KEY INSTRUMENTS The rover that could reveal how Earth was formed: InSight Rover set for Mars landing on november 26th Three key instruments will allow the InSight rover to 'take the pulse' of the red planet: Seismometer: The InSight lander carries a seismometer, SEIS, that listens to the pulse of Mars. The seismometer records the waves traveling through the interior structure of a planet. Studying seismic waves tells us what might be creating the waves. On Mars, scientists suspect that the culprits may be marsquakes, or meteorites striking the surface. Heat probe: InSight's heat flow probe, HP3, burrows deeper than any other scoops, drills or probes on Mars before it. It will investigate how much heat is still flowing out of Mars. Radio antennas: Like Earth, Mars wobbles a little as it rotates around its axis. To study this, two radio antennas, part of the RISE instrument, track the location of the lander very precisely. This helps scientists test the planet's reflexes and tells them how the deep interior structure affects the planet's motion around the Sun.

While it's had its share of flops, the U.S. has by far the best track record. No one else has managed to land and operate a spacecraft on Mars.

Two years ago, a European lander came in so fast, its descent system askew, that it carved out a crater on impact.

This time, NASA is borrowing a page from the 1976 twin Vikings and the 2008 Phoenix, which also were stationary and three-legged.

'But you never know what Mars is going to do,' Hoffman said. 'Just because we've done it before doesn't mean we're not nervous and excited about doing it again.'

Wind gusts could send the spacecraft into a dangerous tumble during descent, or the parachute could get tangled.

A dust storm like the one that enveloped Mars this past summer could hamper InSight's ability to generate solar power. A leg could buckle. The arm could jam.

The tensest time for flight controllers in Pasadena, California: the six minutes from the time the spacecraft hits Mars' atmosphere and touchdown.

They'll have jars of peanuts on hand - a good-luck tradition dating back to 1964's successful Ranger 7 moon mission.

InSight will enter Mars' atmosphere at a supersonic 12,300 mph (19,800 kph), relying on its white nylon parachute and a series of engine firings to slow down enough for a soft upright landing on Mars' Elysium Planitia, a sizable equatorial plain.

Hoffman hopes it's 'like a Walmart parking lot in Kansas.'

The flatter the better so the lander doesn't tip over, ending the mission, and so the robotic arm can set the science instruments down.

InSight - short for Interior Exploration using Seismic Investigations, Geodesy and Heat Transport - will rest close to the ground, its top deck barely a yard, or meter, above the surface.

Once its twin circular solar panels open, the lander will occupy the space of a large car.

If NASA gets lucky, a pair of briefcase-size satellites trailing InSight since their joint May liftoff could provide near-live updates during the lander's descent. There's an eight-minute lag in communications between Earth and Mars.

WHAT ARE MARSQUAKES AND HOW WILL NASA'S INSIGHT MISSION DETECT THEM? Starting next year, scientists will get their first look deep below the surface of Mars. Nasa's robotic lander InSight will study marsquakes to learn about the Martian crust, mantle and core. Doing so could help answer a big question: how are planets born? Seismology, the study of quakes, has already revealed some of the answers here on Earth, but our planet has been churning its geologic record for billions of years, hiding its most ancient history. Mars, at half the size of Earth, churns far less - it's a fossil planet, preserving the history of its early birth. When rocks crack or shift, they give off seismic waves that bounce throughout a planet. These waves, better known as quakes, travel at different speeds depending on the geologic material they travel through. Seismometers, like InSight's SEIS instrument, measure the size, frequency and speed of these quakes, offering scientists a snapshot of the material they pass through. Mars' geologic record includes lighter rocks and minerals, which rose from the planet's interior to form the Martian crust, and heavier rocks and minerals that sank to form the Martian mantle and core. By learning about the layering of these materials, scientists can explain why some rocky planets turn into an 'Earth' rather than a 'Mars' or 'Venus' - a factor that is essential to understanding where life can appear in the universe. Each time a quake happens on Mars, it will give InSight a 'snapshot' of the planet's interior. The InSight team estimates the spacecraft will see between a couple dozen to several hundred quakes over the course of the mission. Small meteorites, which pass through the thin Martian atmosphere on a regular basis, will also serve as seismic 'snapshots.'

The experimental CubeSats, dubbed WALL-E and EVE from the 2008 animated movie, will zoom past Mars and remain in perpetual orbit around the sun, their technology demonstration complete.

If WALL-E and EVE are mute, landing news will come from NASA orbiters at Mars, just not as quickly.

The first pictures of the landing site should start flowing shortly after touchdown. It will be at least 10 weeks before the science instruments are deployed. Add another several weeks for the heat probe to bury into Mars.

The mission is designed to last one full Martian year, the equivalent of two Earth years.

With landing day so close to Thanksgiving, many of the flight controllers will be eating turkey at their desks on the holiday.

Hoffman expects his team will wait until Monday to give full and proper thanks.

====== 1444 ========

EARLIEST USE OF VANILLA IS FOUND IN 3,600-YEAR-OLD ISRAELI BRONZE AGE TOMB

Scientists have found the earliest known use of vanilla in an Israeli Bronze Age tomb that is around 3,600 years old.

Until now, it was thought that vanilla - the world's second most expensive spice - was first used 13,000 miles (20,000km) away in Mexico around 1,000 years ago.

At the time, the sought-after spice would have been used as an additive in food and medicine, as well as being used for embalming the dead, experts say.

Scientists have found the earliest known use of vanilla in an Israeli Bronze Age tomb that is around 3,600 years old (stock image)

According to Vanessa Linares from Tel Aviv University in Israel, jugs found in a Bronze Age site in Megiddo in northern Israel have two major chemicals found in vanilla extract - vanillin and 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde.

'Bronze Age people at Megiddo may have used vanillin-infused oils as additives for foods and medicines, for ritual purposes or possibly even in the embalming of the dead,' Dr Linares told Science News.

Vanillin, which comes from the vanilla orchid pod, was found in three out of four small jugs placed as food offerings around three skeletons - an adult female, adult male and boy between the age of eight and 12 years old.

The surprise discovery was made in a burial chamber that was first found in 2016.

Dr Linares presented the findings at the annual meeting of the American Schools of Oriental Research (ASOR) in Denver at the weekend.

'Until now it has been commonly accepted that vanilla was domesticated in the New World and subsequently spread to other parts of the globe', Dr Linares said in an abstract of her presentation.

Vanillin, which comes from the vanilla orchid pod (stock image), was found in three out of four small jugs placed as food offerings around three skeletons

COULD VANILLA EASE ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE? Combining an antibiotic with the compound that gives vanilla its rich taste may stop the spread of drug-resistant superbugs, research suggested in July 2018. Mixing the drug spectinomycin with vanillin increases the antibiotic's ability to enter bacterial cells and prevent their growth, a German study found. Spectinomycin was initially used in the 1960s to treat gonorrhoea until the STI developed resistance to it. Experts have previously warned antibiotic resistance poses 'as big a risk as terrorism'. A lack of new drugs combined with overprescribing is thought to have driven the resistance crisis, which, according to the World Health Organization, 'has the potential to affect anyone, of any age, in any country.' Researchers, from the European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Heidelberg, exposed almost 3,000 drug and food additive combinations to three different disease-causing bacteria. More than 500 mixes boosted antibiotics' effectiveness. A selection of these combinations were then tested in multi-drug resistant bacteria taken from infected hospital patients.

'Once all possibilities of contamination were ruled out, a post-organic residue analysis investigation of various species within the plant kingdom from which these principle compounds could have been exploited was conducted.

'These results shed new light on the first known exploitation of vanilla, local uses, significance in mortuary practices, and possible long-distance trade networks in the ancient Near East during the second millennium BC'.

The vanillin in the jugs best match orchid species found in East Africa, India and Indonesia.

Dr Linares identified three different species as possible sources: V. polylepsis Summerh from central east Africa; V. albidia Blume from India and V. abundiflora J.J. Sm from southeast Asia.

The new find challenged the idea that vanilla use originated in Mexico.

Experts believe vanilla orchids probably reached Megiddo via trade routes from southwest Asia.

'It's really not surprising that vanillin reached Bronze Age Megiddo given all the trade that occurred between the [Middle East] and South Asia,' archaeologist Eric Cline of George Washington University in Washington told Science News.

It is believed the skeletons were elite, or even royal members of the Canaanite people.

The Canaanite people lived in a part of the world we now recognise as Israel, Palestine, Lebanon, Syria, and Jordan, establishing a culture that became influential in the Middle East and beyond.

Experts doubt that the Canaanites were ever politically united into a single kingdom, and instead suggest they may have been made up of different ethnic groups.

====== 1445 ========

WILL TECHNOLOGICAL PROGRESS PUT HUMANITY AT RISK OF DESTROYING OURSELVES?

Technology may provide the solutions to some of the world’s most pressing concerns – but if we’re not careful, it could also bring about the downfall of humanity, a new paper warns.

The paper titled The Vulnerable World Hypothesis investigates the possibility of the emergence of technology that is both destructive on a large scale, and easy to access.

While humankind has already created technology that has the potential for mass devastation, such as nuclear weaponry, such developments have been limited by a number of factors, including cost and rarity of the materials required to make them.

But, according to Oxford philosopher Nick Bostrom, that’s only because we’ve been ‘lucky’ thus far.

Scroll down for video

Technology may provide the solutions to some of the world’s most pressing concerns – but if we’re not careful, it could also bring about the downfall of humanity, a new paper warns. File photo

In the paper, Bostrom explains that we have yet to achieve technology that, as a result, ‘civilization almost certainly gets devastated by default’ – in other words, creating what Bostrom refers to as a ‘vulnerable world.’

So far, the Future of Humanity Institute director says we’ve managed to achieve technology that has been, for the most part, beneficial to society.

These he refers to as ‘white’ balls pulled from a hypothetical urn. Those such as nuclear weaponry could be considered grey.

But at this stage, that’s as far as we’ve gotten.

‘What we haven’t extracted, so far, is a black ball – a technology that invariably or by default destroys the civilization that invents it,’ Bostrom argues.

‘The reason is not that we have been particularly careful or wise in our technology policy. We have just been lucky.’

According to Bostrom, ‘The most obvious kind [of black ball] is a technology that would make it very easy to unleash an enormously powerful destructive force.’

This could, for example, include advances in biohacking that would allow a person with basic training to cause mass illness.

While humankind has already created technology that has the potential for mass devastation, such as nuclear weaponry, such developments have been limited by a number of factors, including cost and rarity of the materials required to make them. File photo

THE TOP THREATS TO HUMANKIND A survey conducted by Times Higher Education and the Lindau Nobel Laureate Meetings last year posed the question to 50 Novel Laureates: 'What is the biggest threat to humankind, in your view? And is there anything science can do to mitigate it?' Some respondents listed more than one threat, and responses were recorded, with the threats ranked as follows: Population rise/environmental degradation (34%, 18 respondents) Nuclear war (23%, 12 respondents) Infectious disease/drug resistance (8%, 4 respondents) Selfishness/dishonesty/loss of humanity (8%, 4 respondents) Donald Trump/ignorant leaders (6%, 3 respondents) Artificial Intelligence (4%, 2 respondents) Inequality (4%, 2 respondents) Drugs (2%, 1 respondent) Facebook (2%, 1 respondent) Fundamentalism/terrorism (6%, 3 respondents) Ignorance/distortion of truth (6%, 3 respondents

Bostrom revisits historical examples such as the creation of the atomic bomb to investigate how things could go awry.

Had the ingredients for the atomic bomb relied on widely available materials such as ‘a piece of glass, a metal object, and a battery arranged in a particular configuration’ instead of plutonium or uranium, Bostrom notes, preventing a global disaster could be a near-impossible task.

‘In the present age, when one can publish instantaneously and anonymously on the Internet, it would be even more difficult to limit the spread of scientific secrets,’ the researcher notes.

To prevent the destabilization of civilization, or to re-stabilize, the world would have to take harsh steps.

It would be impossible to ban access to ubiquitous materials such as glass or metal, and even attempting to do so could spark violent backlash.

This type of technology could also push the world into a mass surveillance state, or spark global arms races.

Bostrom also considers the world may establish ‘extremely effective preventive policing,’ or attempt to ‘establish effective global governance.’

Each scenario presents its own set of challenges and potential consequences.

While we may not be in a ‘vulnerable’ state quite yet, the research highlights just how difficult it could be to manage if we do stumble upon the ‘black ball’ technology.

A new paper titled The Vulnerable World Hypothesis investigates the possibility of the emergence of technology that is both destructive on a large scale, and easy to access. File photo

And, it raises questions on what should be done to prevent us from getting there in the first place.

‘Even if we became seriously concerned that the urn of invention may contain a black ball, this need not move us to favor establishing stronger surveillance or global governance now, if we thought that it would be possible to take those steps later, if and when the hypothesized vulnerability came clearly into view,’ Bostrom says.

‘We could then let the world continue its sweet slumber, in the confident expectation that as soon as the alarm goes off it will leap out of bed and undertake the required actions.

‘But we should question how realistic this plan is.’

====== 1446 ========

PEOPLE WHO ARE LONELY AND SINGLE USE LESS COLOUR ON SOCIAL MEDIA

People who are lonely tend to post less colourful pictures on Instagram, a study has found.

University students took part in an online questionnaire to measured their personality traits and life satisfaction.

Instagram feeds of the 179 individuals were then analysed by researchers who studied over 25,000 photos to understand how they used colour in their social media snaps.

The survey measured five personality traits; narcissism, life satisfaction, loneliness, attitude to Instagram, and gender.

They found that those who were romantically attached posted more colourful pictures while people who weren't went for less colour.

Scroll down for video

University students took part in an online questionnaire that measured their life satisfaction and personality traits. Researchers found that those who were not lonely or romantically attached posted more colourful pictures to Instagram (Stock image)

They also found that those with no romantic attachment or who felt lonely posted less colourful photos

The photos were analysed in terms of use of colour overall, diversity and harmony - meaning they match well together.

They found that those with no romantic attachment or who felt lonely posted less colourful photos.

They ascertained this when they asked participants about their love lives in the questionnaire.

The survey also took into account other factors such as narcissism and life satisfaction.

More positive social media users were found to have more colour diversity in their photos while neurotic Instagram users had less colour harmony in their photos.

The colour features of Instagram photos also differed by gender.

WHAT ARE THE FIVE PERSONALITY TRAITS? The 'Big Five' personality traits are openness, conscientiousness, extroversion, agreeableness and neuroticism. The Big Five personality framework theory uses these descriptors to outline the broad dimensions of people's personality and psyche. Beneath each broad category is a number of correlated and specific factors. Here are the five main points: Openness - this is about having an appreciation for emotion, adventure and unusual ideas. People who are generally open have a higher degree of intellectual curiosity and creativity. They are also more unpredictable and likely to be involved in risky behaviour such as drug taking. Conscientiousness - people who are conscientiousness are more likely to be organised and dependable. These people are self-disciplined and act dutifully, preferring planned as opposed to spontaneous behaviour. They can sometimes be stubborn and obsessive. Extroversion - these people tend to seek stimulation in the company of others and are energetic, positive and assertive. They can sometimes be attention-seeking and domineering. Individuals with lower extroversion are reserved, and can be seen as aloof or self-absorbed. Agreeableness - these individuals have a tendency to be compassionate and cooperative as opposed to antagonistic towards other people. Sometimes people who are highly agreeable are seen as naive or submissive. People who have lower levels of agreeableness are competitive or challenging. Neuroticisim - People with high levels of neuroticism are prone to psychological stress and get angry, anxious and depressed easily. More stable people are calmer but can sometimes be seen as uninspiring and unconcerned. Individuals with higher neuroticism tend to have worse psychological well-being.

The survey measured five personality traits; narcissism, life satisfaction, loneliness, attitude to Instagram, and gender. They found that lonelier people posted images with less colour to their Instagram feed (Stock Image)

Women tended to upload images which were more colourful and more diverse in colour, while men tended to post harmonious images.

People who were more open were found to have less colour diversity and colour harmony in their photos.

The present study contributes to the body of research on colour preference and online self-presentation.

The study was published in the journal Information Processing & Management.

====== 1447 ========

DOES THE SUN HAVE AN IDENTICAL TWIN? SCIENTISTS CLAIM TO HAVE FOUND A LONG-LOST CLONE OF OUR STAR

Our star has an identical twin, new research suggests.

Scientists claim to have found an almost exact clone of our sun that was created from the same gas cloud 4.6 billion years ago.

The solar sibling is called HD 186302 and is around 184 light-years away.

Scroll down for video

Scientists claim to have found an almost exact clone of our sun that may be a true solar sibling created from the same gas cloud. Pictured is an open star cluster called Trumpler 14 which is similar to the one where the sun was born

Solar siblings are the thousands of stars which formed in the same massive stellar nursery.

In the case of our sun, this is a nursery that was around about 4.6 billion years ago.

Stellar nurseries are vast swirls of gas and dust that gradually collapse, disbanding stars through the galaxy.

It's believed that up to 85 per cent of all stars are binary pairs but once they have scattered, these stars are very difficult to locate again.

'Since there isn't much information about the sun's past, studying these stars can help us understand where in the Galaxy and under which conditions the sun was formed', said lead researcher Vardan Adibekyan from the Instituto de Astrofísica e Ciências do Espaço (IA) in Portugal.

Reseachers used high-quality data from the AMBRE project and precise astronomical data from ESA's GAIA mission.

AMBRE is a galactic archaeology project set up by ESO and the Observatoire de la Côte d’Azur.

With this, scientists made 'a selection of stars with chemical compositions which best match the sun's composition, followed by an estimate of these stars age and kinematic properties', said Dr Adibekyan.

Although only a single solar sibling was found in this work - HD186302, it was a special one.

This star is not only a solar sibling by both age and chemical composition, but it is so similar it is believed to be a solar twin, according to the paper published in Astronomy & Astrophysics.

In the case of our sun (pictured), this is a nursery that was around about 4.6 billion years ago. Stellar nurseries are vast swirls of gas and dust that gradually collapse, disbanding stars through the galaxy

Scientists say solar siblings might be good candidates to search for life.

This is because there is a possibility that lifeforms could have been transported between planets around stars in the solar cluster.

The transfer of life between exoplanetary systems is called interstellar lithopanspermia.

'Some theoretical calculations show that there is non-negligible probability that life spread from Earth to other planets or exoplanetary systems, during the period of the late heavy bombardment', said Dr Adibekyan.

'If we are lucky, and our sibling candidate has a planet, and the planet is a rocky type, in the habitable zone, and finally if this planet was 'contaminated' by the life seeds from Earth, then we have what one could dream – an Earth 2.0, orbiting a Sun 2.0.'

====== 1448 ========

TUMBLR PULLED FROM APP STORE AFTER IT FAILED TO SPOT AND REMOVE IMAGES OF CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE

Tumblr's mysterious disappearance from the App Store was a result of images posted to its platform dealing with child pornography.

The iOS app has been absent from Apple's App Store since November 16th, but until now, it was unclear why.

In a statement, the blogging platform explained that its filters failed to remove the objectionable content and that the app hasn't yet returned to the App Store.

Scroll down for video

Tumblr's mysterious disappearance from the App Store was a result of images posted to its platform dealing with child pornography. The app hasn't yet returned to the App Store

WHAT IS TUMBLR? Tumblr is a blogging site that sits somewhere between Twitter and a traditional blog. There are no length restrictions on Tumblr posts, but the culture of the site encourages short updates. The major feature that makes Tumblr stand out is that it divides up posts by type: Text, Photo, Quote, Link, Chat, Audio, and Video. Depending on the type of post, Tumblr serves up a different template. Photo bloggers are particularly fond of the network, as are fashion bloggers.

'We continue to work to restore our app to the iOS App Store,' Tumblr wrote.

'...We're committed to helping build a safe online environment for all users, and we have a zero tolerance policy when it comes to media featuring child sexual exploitation and abuse.'

The firm said it works with experts, like the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, to 'actively monitor' content uploaded to the platform.

Every image uploaded to the site is run against a database of known child sexual abuse material and, if there is a match, the images are removed even before they make it onto the site.

However, it failed to spot some images that contained child sexual abuse content and, as a result, Tumblr was pulled from the App Store.

'A routine audit discovered content on our platform that had not yet been included in the industry database,' the firm explained.

'We immediately removed this content...We're continuously assessing further steps we can take to improve and there is no higher priority for our team.'

The iOS app has been removed from the App Store since the morning of November 16th, but it's still available in the Google Play Store for Android users.

It's unclear when the Tumblr app will return to the App Store.

Many have pointed out that Tumblr may only be able to provide limited details about the incident as the nature of it requires the firm to work with law enforcement officials.

Tumblr has long faced issues with being kicked offline in other countries outside the U.S.

Earlier this year, the Indonesian government temporarily blocked Tumblr after it didn't respond to requests to remove pornographic content.

In 2017, South Korea called on the company to remove pornographic content from its site - a request it initially rebuffed, but later complied to.

Apple's App Store guidelines strictly prohibit apps that share content dealing with child sexual abuse and require them to have content filters that flag those types of material.

====== 1449 ========

ELON MUSK SAYS BFR WILL BE CALLED STARSHIP AND CLAIMS LATER VERSIONS WILL FLY TO OTHER STAR SYSTEMS

The Big F***ing Rocket is getting a new name.

SpaceX and Tesla CEO Elon Musk announced on Twitter late Monday that his largest rocket will now be referred to as 'Starship.'

Specifically, the spaceship, or upper stage of the rocket will be referred to as Starship, while the rocket booster is called the 'Super Heavy,' Musk explained.

Scroll down for video

The Big F***ing Rocket is getting a new name. SpaceX and Tesla CEO Elon Musk announced on Twitter late Monday that his largest rocket will now be referred to as 'Starship'

'Renaming BFR to Starship,' Musk wrote in a tweet. 'Technically, two parts: Starship is the spaceship/upper stage & Super Heavy is the rocket booster needed to escape Earth's deep gravity well (not needed for other planets or moons.'

He added that later versions will be sent on missions to other star systems, giving credence to its 'Starship' name.

The closest star system to the sun is the Alpha Centauri system, which is a whopping 4.3 light-years from Earth, TechCrunch noted.

SpaceX shared new details about the 387ft rocket in September, saying it hopes to begin unmanned launch tests of the spacecraft in late 2019.

In the future, Starship will be able to carry out lunar missions as well as long-distance flights to Mars and beyond.

The firm hopes to stage an uncrewed flight to Mars in 2022, then a manned flight in 2024.

In between those missions, SpaceX has planned for a private mission with a passenger on board in 2023.

'We would like to put large cargo on the surface of the moon by 2022,' SpaceX chief operating officer Gwynne Shotwell said recently.

'And we have our eyes on the prize to send people to Mars in 2024.'

She admitted those plans might 'sound crazy, but everything we've ever done has sounded crazy to people.'

The spaceship, or upper stage of the rocket will be referred to as Starship, while the rocket booster is called the 'Super Heavy,' according to SpaceX CEO Elon Musk (pictured)

SpaceX announced a new plan to launch a tourist around the moon last week. Pictured is an artist's impression of the Big F***ing Rocket, now named Starship, flying around the moon

Starship first launched in 2016 as the Mars Colonial Transporter, then the Interplanetary Transport System and, finally, the BFR.

The top section of Starship has 40 cabins, which could hold up to six passengers each.

The rocket is capable of ferrying up to 100 tons of cargo.

Earlier this month, Musk said his rocket firm intends to upgrade the second stage of the Falcon 9 rocket to 'be like a mini-BFR ship.'

'Mod to SpaceX tech tree build: Falcon 9 second stage will be upgraded to be like a mini-BFR Ship,' Musk wrote in a tweet on Wednesday.

He added that the firm is 'aiming for orbital flight by June' in 2019.

SpaceX hopes to eventually have the BFR replace its current lineup of rockets, so it's likely eager to get testing underway.

====== 1450 ========

A MATHEMATICAL EQUATION CAN TELL HOW MUCH YOUR PARTNER LOVES YOU

A British scientist has created a complex mathematical equation to try and understand love.

Suki Finn, a postdoctoral research fellow in philosophy at the University of Southampton, has created a way to tell between unconditional and 'conditional' affection.

Her equation combines reasoning and probability - known as Bayesian probability theory - to help a person tell the condition of their relationship.

Unconditional relationships have a solution of one which means no logic or rationale can sway a person's answer.

Conditional love is any value from the equation between the value of 0 and one and is subject to change as a relationship progresses.

Dr Finn says that one type of love is not necessarily better than the other but that there are two very distinct forms of the emotion.

Scroll down for video

Suki Finn, a postdoctoral research fellow in philosophy at the University of Southampton, has created a way to tell between unconditional and 'conditional' affection (stock)

Dr Finn used the mathematical concept of Bayesian probability theory to help create the equation.

Bayesian probability theory creates a framework in which reasoning and probability are combined.

Dr Finn said: 'I will try to make sense of the confusing and complex emotion that we call love by creating a parallel between conditional/unconditional love and conditional/unconditional degrees of belief'.

As part of the process Dr Finn classified the 'degrees of belief' and gave them a value between 0 and one.

As part of an in-depth feature in Aeon, the researcher explains that the value given to a person's trait is not set in stone.

She explains: 'You could love her a little, at 0.3, or loads, at 0.9, for example.

'Maybe you start at 0.3 and as you get to know his positive qualities (thus gaining information) your love grows to 0.9.

'Maybe she does something bad that hurts you (also providing more information) and as a result the love levels decrease.'

Unconditional relationships have a solution of one which means no logic or rationale can sway a person's answer. Conditional love is any value from the equation between the value of 0 and one and is subject to change as a relationship progresses (stock)

WHAT IS THE EQUATION FOR UNCONDITIONAL LOVE? The formula for unconditional love is an adapted version of the maths for updating credences by conditionalisation. This is: Crupdated(p)=Crinitial(p|e) Cr is credence. p is an event and Cr(p) is the probability - or ranking - of a trait between 0 and 1. e is a proposition or event that counts as evidence that would alter a value- also known as a credence. Initial and updated refers to the before and after of the score when e is taken into account. The line | simply mans 'conditional upon'. The rest of the proof is as follows: Cr(p|e) = Cr(e∩p)/Cr(e)

When Cr(p)=1, it is a theorem that Cr(e)=Cr(e∩p)

e is equivalent to (e∩p)∪(e∩¬p)

So Cr(e)=Cr(e∩p)+Cr(e∩¬p)

Cr(e∩¬p)=0

Cr(¬p)=Cr(e∩¬p)+Cr(¬e∩¬p)

Cr(p)=1 so Cr(¬p)=0

Cr(e∩¬p) and Cr(¬e∩¬p)

Cr(e)=Cr(e∩p)+Cr(e∩¬p) where Cr(e∩¬p)=0

Cr(e)=Cr(e∩p)

From Cr(e∩p)/Cr(e)

To Cr(e)/Cr(e)

To 1 (as anything divided by itself equals 1)

Crupdated(p)=Crinitial(p|e)

Crinitial(p|e)=1

Crupdated(p)=1 when Crinitial(p)=1

Cr(e)≠0 The researcher summed up the researcher and said: 'Credence 1 is rationally unmovable, in a similar way to having unconditional love. 'And who said that there is no romance in maths?'

One indicates absolutely certainty and 0 indicates absolutely no certainty.

If something is given a value of one a person's resolve cannot get any stronger as it is considered to be an absolute certainty.

'No matter how strong the opposing information is, it will not detract you from credence 1, so the Bayesian says', according to Dr Finn.

In the research a value of one for the equation equates to unconditional love where, no matter the opposing logic, a person remains besotted.

In contrast, conditional love sits between 0 and 1 and changes as a relationship develops.

'Unconditional love is love that will not change according to any information, as it was not built on the basis of information in the first place,' Dr Finn said.

'This is love without reason, where no evidence or information can alter it. Why do you love someone? For no reason!'

====== 1451 ========

KING RICHARD III WAS NOT A GROTESQUE HUNCHBACK BUT ACTUALLY A HANDSOME GENTLEMAN

King Richard III was more of a handsome 'surf dude' than a 'hideous misfit', an expert has said.

The infamous monarch, who reigned from 1483-1485, is generally portrayed as a scheming, murderous villain of hideous appearance.

Shakespeare penned the monarch as a paranoid psychopath, often played by actors with a hunchback and a huge nose.

But now a gallery owner specialising in medieval-era art has refuted the historical portrayals of Richard III - and says he was more a handsome, well-built man.

Scroll down for video

King Richard III was more of a handsome 'surf dude' than a 'hideous misfit', an expert has said. He was memorably portrayed by Laurence Olivier in his film adaptation of the Shakespeare play (pictured)

Ralph Fiennes as Richard, Duke of Gloucester 'Richard III'. Shakespeare penned the monarch as a paranoid psychopath, often played by actors with a hunchback and a huge nose

Steve Beer, who owns fine art gallery The Medieval Gallery in Dunster, Somerset is set to host a major event on December 1, called 'Picturing Richard's World'.

Featuring artwork displays and talks by experts, he says it may 'radically overturn' the image most people have of the controversial king.

Mr Beer said: 'This event offers a rare opportunity to see artistic interpretations of the latest scientific evidence and modern historical research.

'Richard III has been demonised by generations of historians, artists and playwrights as the sinister, physically misshapen figure who murdered his nephews - the Princes in the Tower.

He told MailOnline the new exhibition is a 'complete re-writing of this part of history'.

'He was memorably portrayed by Laurence Olivier in his film adaptation of the Shakespeare play, in which Richard is presented as an almost pantomime villain.

'But since the discovery of his physical remains in a Leicester car park in 2012, historians and scientists have been able to refute at least a part of the legend inherited from Shakespeare and the Tudors', Mr Beer said.

He explained that a forensic reconstruction of the king, centering on his exhumed skull, acted as the starting point for a new portrait of him.

Painted by Danish artist Anne Gyrite Schütte, the painting will be unveiled at the event at The Medieval Gallery.

The infamous monarch (pictured), who reigned from 1483-1485, is generally portrayed as a scheming, murderous villain of hideous appearance

The mystery of what happened to the Princes in the Tower (artist's impression) is one of the most enduring in English history

And the king's character will also come under scrutiny in a talk by acclaimed author and historian Annette Carson.

Mr Beer said: 'This will examine Richard's role as Lord Protector and consider if his image as a murderer is really justified.

'This is about a group of experts getting together and trying to reform Richard's image. They are all committed and they are all empirical in their evidence.

'Rarely has this critical period of English history been so vividly brought to life as it will be at this rare event,' he added.

The event will be staged in two parts - first, the talks and displays at Dunster Tithe Barn, followed by the unveiling of the new portrait.

The event will be staged in two parts - first, the talks and displays at Dunster Tithe Barn, followed by the unveiling of the new portrait. Pictured is an image of King Richard III inside Leicester Cathedral

Leicester Cathedral won the tussle to provide the final resting place for Richard III (pictured) following a lengthy court battle

Richard III was killed at the Battle of Bosworth in 1485. He was buried in a Leicester church, but the building was lost to later development. His bones were then discovered under a Leicester car park in 2012 (pictured)

Richard III was killed at the Battle of Bosworth in 1485.

He was buried in a Leicester church, but the building was lost to later development.

His bones were then discovered under a Leicester car park in 2012. Authorities in Leicester have said they will reinter his body with ‘dignity and honour’.

But a campaign group, the Plantagenet Alliance, claimed York was a more suitable location for Richard's remains as he had spent his childhood and much of his adult life in the North.

Leicester Cathedral won the tussle to provide the final resting place for Richard III following a lengthy court battle.

====== 1452 ========

BEST WAY TO COOK FRIED RICE IS 'KEEP FLIPPING IT OUT OF THE WOK EVERY 0.32 SECONDS', SAY SCIENTISTS

It is bad news for lazy cooks or those without much upper arm strength.

Scientists have discovered the secret of the perfect stir-fry and it means tossing the rice every third of a second.

The best wok technique involves two motions – pulling the pan towards you before pushing it away, and a ‘seesaw’ motion to tilt it backwards and forwards. This should be done rapidly every 0.32 seconds, without ever removing the wok from the stove.

Scientists say secret of the perfect stir-fry is tossing rice every third of a second

To work out the physics of a stir-fry, researchers filmed two Taiwanese cooks with more than 20 years of experience.

The technique has been worked out by mechanical engineers at Georgia Institute of Technology and could be used to programme a new generation of cooking robots to make egg-fried rice.

This might help the 60 per cent of Asian cooks who suffer muscular problems in their shoulders from cooking with woks each year.

But the findings may dismay home cooks who prefer to leave their wok for minutes at a time with only occasional stirring.

====== 1453 ========

A 'ROBOT NOSE' IS BEING BUILT THAT COULD MAKE SNIFFER DOGS OBSOLETE

Trusty sniffer dogs that are used to detect drugs, explosives and missing people could soon be replaced by a 'robo-nose'.

Trained dogs are taught to use their sensitive sense of smell to detect the presence of certain chemicals and scientists have successfully recreated a robotic alternative.

Researchers used genes from the nose of mice to develop the olfactory organ which they hope will one day replace the dogs.

Scroll down for video

Trusty sniffer dogs that are used to detect drugs, explosives and missing people could soon be replaced by a 'robo-nose'. Researchers have used genes from the nose of mice to develop an artificial olfactory organ to eventually replace the dogs (stock)

Detection dogs are invaluable to security are expensive to train and often get tired.

A robotic alternative, being developed by researchers at the Duke School of Medicine in North Carolina, involves a prototype that used odour receptors from mice.

'This idea of an artificial nose has been present for a long time,' said senior study author Hiroaki Matsunami, a professor of molecular genetics and microbiology at Duke.

Professor Matsunami explained that 'E noses', which we have now, detect smells using various chemical compounds rather than using receptor stem cells

He said those devices are 'not as good as a trained dog.'

'The idea is that by using the actual, living receptors, we can develop a device similar to animals,' Professor Matsunami said.

'Nobody has achieved that yet, but this study is moving towards that goal.'

Humans only use about 2 per cent of their genes to make odour receptors but the organ is more important to other animals and includes more genetic coding.

'Mice and rats are very good smellers; we just don't use mice for detecting explosives in real life because of practical problems,' Professor Matsunami added.

Experts have taken the first steps towards making an artificial robot nose device made from living mouse cells that could be used to replace sniffer dogs. These detection dogs are invaluable for our security but they are also expensive and get tired often (stock)

Experts were able to identify the best receptors to respond to target odours like marijuana and cocaine.

The researchers devised a way for a liquid to light up when a reaction between an odour and a receptor occurred.

How did they make the robot nose device from mice genes? The first step of the study was to identify the best odour receptors to respond to target odours like cocaine or marijuana. The researchers created a liquid medium primed with molecules that could light up from reactions. They then copied about 80 per cent of the odour receptors from mice, and mixed those receptors with seven target chemicals in the medium.

They measured the resulting luminescence and chose the best-performing odour receptors.

Researchers then endeavoured to expand the study as to make it applicable to the way noses detect signals in real-life with vapours and not liquids. .

Receptors created by the team of scientists were then used to identify two odours.

'We only tested two of them in the paper, but it's showing the proof of principle of how it can be used,' Professor Matsunami said.

The researchers hope they can fine-tune the device to test all receptors against many different smells.

'We have a panel of receptors so we can monitor how different receptors respond differently to various smells, including ones that are similar to each other in chemical structure or ones that might be related to real-world use, like something associated to explosives or drugs,' Professor Matsunami said.

'We can more clearly see what kind of hurdles to pass in order for the community to create such a device.'

====== 1454 ========

TESLA ROLLS OUT UPDATE THAT MAKES IT HARDER FOR THIEVES TO STEAL CARS BY HACKING THE KEY FOB

Tesla is making it much harder for thieves to run off with your Model 3.

A new software update for the electric sedan will let vehicle owners and police track stolen cars.

The move comes after a shocking video showed criminals stealing a $75,000 Model S by remotely hacking the car's key fob.

Scroll down for video

Tesla is making it much harder for thieves to run off with your Model 3 (pictured). A new software update for the electric sedan will let vehicle owners and police track stolen cars

These so-called 'relay attacks' involve thieves intercepting the signal sent between a key fob and a car that enables keyless entry.

But the attackers in Essex, England took the scheme a step further and turned off the Model S' remote access feature, which allows the vehicle owner to track its whereabouts.

With the update, Tesla is making it almost impossible for thieves to disable remote access.

Now, disabling mobile access will require users to enter a username and password.

If thieves want to steal your Tesla, they'll have to get out of the GPS' range in order to make off with the car successfully.

'For additional security, your Tesla username and password will be required when disabling mobile access,' Tesla explained in the software release notes.

'To adjust the car’s mobile access setting, go to Controls > Safety > Allow Mobile Access.'

However, the easiest way to make sure your Tesla is safe from thieves is to turn off passive entry, which makes it so that the car doors automatically unlock and open up when the key fob is nearby.

The Model S owner in England could have also helped himself had he turned on PIN access.

A three-minute surveillance video shows the crooks using a tablet to pick up the signal from the owner's nearby key fob to unlock the vehicle.

Everything seems to go off with a hitch, that is, until the high-tech hackers can't seem to figure out how to unplug the Model S from its charging station.

In all, it only takes the thieves a few minutes to make off with Essex, England resident Antony Kennedy's Model S.

The whole debacle could have been avoided had the vehicle owner enabled a security feature recently rolled out by Tesla, called PIN to drive, which requires a driver to enter a PIN code that's displayed on the dashboard in order to drive the vehicle. Pictured is a Tesla key fob

They appear to use a relatively simple hacking method called a relay attack, to intercept the signal from the key fob.

One thief scans the house with his phone to pick up the signal from the key fob.

Kennedy noted that his keys were located 'at the back of the house.'

Once the key fob signal is picked up, it's then relayed to another device - in this case, a tablet - that's closer to the car door.

It's supposed to mimic the keyless entry process of holding a key fob near a vehicle to unlock it.

More and more carmakers have introduced keyless entry to their cars, but the method isn't without its security risks.

The thieves are able to unlock the car in a matter of seconds after picking up the key fob signal, at which point the Model S lights flash and the car door opens.

Despite their smarts, the crooks waste quite a bit of time figuring out how to remove the charging cable connected to the car's battery.

They fumble around for several minutes before one of the thieves realizes that all they had to do was push a button to undock the car from the cable.

After that, they quickly hop in the car and speed off.

The whole debacle could have been avoided had the vehicle owner enabled a security feature recently rolled out by Tesla.

Called 'PIN to drive,' it requires a driver to enter a PIN code that's displayed on the dashboard in order to drive the vehicle.

The crooks seem to have done some research before stealing the vehicle, as they knew to turn off the Model S' remote access feature, which means the owner can't track the vehicle

However, Kennedy admitted he had forgotten to turn 'PIN to drive' on before the heist.

'@elonmusk My @tesla was stolen this morning, with just a tablet and a phone extending my fob range from the back of the house,' Kennedy wrote in a tweet.

'I get that I should [have] enabled PIN access. I wish it was harder for them to disable remote access though. I can't track it or disable it.'

The crooks seem to have done some research before stealing the vehicle, as they knew to turn off the Model S' remote access feature.

This means that vehicle owner is unable to track the vehicle's whereabouts.

According to Kennedy, Tesla claims that it would have been able to track the vehicle, but the crooks did something else that made it so they cannot see where it went.

How do thieves steal your car without the keys? The hi-tech 'relay' gadget that uses signals to unlock vehicles parked outside homes What is relay theft? Relay theft occurs when two thieves work together to break into cars which have keyless entry systems. The thieves can use equipment to capture signals emitted by certain keys which are used to start new vehicles. One thief stands by the car with a transmitter, while the other stands by the house with another, which picks up the signal from the key which is usually kept near the front door on a table or hook. This is then relayed to the other transmitter by the vehicle, causing it to think the key is in close proximity and prompting it to open. Thieves can then drive the vehicle away and quickly replace the locks and entry devices. Technically, any vehicle with keyless entry could be vulnerable to relay theft. These included cars from BMW, Ford, Audi, Land Rover, Hyundai, Volkswagen and Mercedes cars. How can you protect your vehicle against relay theft? According to research by the Institute of the Motor Industry, over half of motorists are worried their car could be accessed and stolen by remote thieves. Fifty per cent of people surveyed weren't aware that their car might be vulnerable to cyber attacks, and while drivers shouldn't become paranoid about the safety of their car it's always a good idea to take precautions. This has long been a necessary precaution in order to avoid car theft, but it's important to make sure that your key is as far from the front door as possible so its signal can't be picked up. As hacking devices get more sophisticated, they may be able to pick up signals from further away. This may seem a bit excessive, but a metal box could be the best place to store your keys overnight as the metal could block the signal being detected. Lorna Connelly, head of claims at Admiral, said: 'Unfortunately, we do see a claims from customers who have had their cars stolen due to relay theft and it's a problem that we would advise motorists with keyless cars to be aware of. 'Despite progresses in anti-theft technology, thieves are always coming up with new ways to make off with your vehicle. 'We are urging all of our customers to keep their keys a safe distance from the door and consider storing them in a metal box. While this may seem like an extreme solution, relay theft is an extreme practice.' SOURCE: Admiral

Kennedy believes that the thieves either removed the fob's physical SIM card, which is 'apparently easy to get to,' or used a battery powered device to block internet access in the vehicle.

Many experts recommend vehicle owners store their key fobs in what's referred to as a 'Faraday cage,' which is a container made with conducting material, like wire or mesh.

The cage is then able to block any electromagnetic fields sent out by the devices within the cage.

Tesla has also started to recommend that users turn off passive entry, in an effort to prevent these kinds of attacks in the future.

While potentially inconvenient, it could save a Tesla owner from having thieves drive off with their car in the dark.

====== 1455 ========

TECH STOCKS SEND THE DOW PLUMMETING

Plummeting tech stocks sent the Dow tumbling on Tuesday and led to increased fears on Wall Street that US stocks would wipe out their yearly gains.

The Dow opened at 24,618 on Tuesday morning, 423 points down from Monday's close.

As the morning wore on, it hovered around 24,600, reaching 24,707 at its highest but coming nowhere close to its Monday close of 25,017.

By lunchtime, it had plummeted further to 24,502, a decrease of 2.06 percent which wipes out its 2018 gains. It marked another day of decline since a mass sell-off of technology stocks began earlier this month.

At 4pm, it closed at 24,465, a decrease of 551 points.

The S&P 500 was down by 1 percent and the NASDAQ also lost 0.9 percent, putting all of the major indices on track to wipe out their 2018 gains by the end of the year.

On Tuesday morning, Apple was down by almost five percent and Facebook had lost $3 per share - a loss of equivalent of more than $40million.

Facebook, which has been struggling for months, was down by 0.9 percent.

Experts have warned that it may drop by another 2,000 points before the sell-off ends.

Scroll down for video

The Dow closed on Tuesday at 24,465, a decrease of 551 points since Monday, wiping out its 2018 gains

Since the 2016 Presidential Election, the markets have been on a continuous winning streak and have gained more than 6,000 points.

The Dow is now however on track to wipe out its 2018 gains entirely.

The slump is the result of a combination of pressure from trade tensions with China and Silicon Valley scandals which have rocked the market's faith in the once unstoppable companies.

What began as a tech sell-off has trickled its way through to the rest of the market.

On Tuesday, oil and gas stocks were also discarded in favor of safer options like bonds and dividends.

It coincided with a service outage on Facebook and Instagram.

Netflix was down by almost $17 a share and Amazon had also lost value.

All are now approaching bear territory, a dreaded label which marks a decrease in value of 20 percent since a recent peak.

Experts say that Apple's 20 per cent slump has been contributed to by lower sales expectations, particularly as a result of the hefty price tags of its recent iPhones.

Netflix’s 35 per cent drop has come as investors are concerned by incoming competition from Disney and Apple, which are both heavily rumored to be starting up their own TV streaming services.

Amazon has also been caught up in the widespread sell-off in tech stocks.

Mark Hackett, chief of investment research at Nationwide Investment Management, said investors are dumping the high-profile technology companies that have dominated the market until recently.

Much of their share price gains in recent years have been built on the hope that their growth could continue and increased users could eventually be turned into greater profits.

Facebook struggled in the morning and crept back up to its Monday high but came nowhere close to its year peak of $218 a share. Its lowest of the year has been $126

Hackett said investors are now picking companies based on traditional profit and revenue figures instead of the user growth figures favored by tech companies.

'These things had outperformed the S&P by a mile over the last three years,' he said, but that's changed now.

'On good days they're not the leaders, and on bad days they're the laggards.'

Facebook shares sank 5.7 per cent during Monday's trading to $131.55 – their lowest level since February 2017.

Barring a sudden turnaround, November will also be the third consecutive month that Facebook has seen its share price decline - the longest down period in its history.

Jason Calacanis, an early investor in the company, sold off shares after deciding CEO Mark Zuckerberg was 'completely immoral'.

He told reporters yesterday that the social network had entered a crisis stage and questioned whether Facebook had reached its peak.

Mr Calacanis said: 'It's possible, maybe not probable but possible, this could be their AOL peak, their Yahoo peak,' referring to years of slow decline in the audience of the early internet leaders once they reached their early 2000s highs.

====== 1456 ========

SCIENTISTS WORK TO SAVE WILD PUERTO RICAN PARROT AFTER HURRICANE MARIA

Biologists are trying to save the last of the endangered Puerto Rican parrots after more than half the population of the bright green birds with turquoise-tipped wings disappeared when Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico and destroyed their habitat and food sources.

In the tropical forest of El Yunque, only two of the 56 wild birds that once lived there survived the Category 4 storm that pummeled the U.S. territory in September 2017.

Meanwhile, only 4 of 31 wild birds in a forest in the western town of Maricao survived, along with 75 out of 134 wild parrots living in the Rio Abajo forest in the central mountains of Puerto Rico, scientists said.

And while several dozen new parrots have been born in captivity and in the wild since Maria, the species is still in danger, according to scientists.

Biologists are trying to save the last of the endangered Puerto Rican parrots after more than half the population of birds disappeared when Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico and destroyed their habitat and food sources

'We have a lot of work to do,' said Gustavo Olivieri, parrot recovery program coordinator for Puerto Rico's Department of Natural Resources.

Federal and local scientists will meet next month to debate how best to revive a species that numbered more than 1 million in the 1800s but dwindled to 13 birds during the 1970s after decades of forest clearing.

The U.S. and Puerto Rican governments launched a program in 1972 that eventually led to the creation of three breeding centers. Just weeks before Maria hit, scientists reported 56 wild birds at El Yunque, the highest since the program was launched.

But the population decline is now especially worrisome because the parrots that vanished from El Yunque were some of the last remaining wild ones, said Marisel Lopez, who oversees the parrot recovery program at El Yunque for the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service.

One of the mountains surrounding the Iguaca Aviary in El Yunque, where Puerto Rican parrots are taken care of by the Fish & Wildlife Service, has part of a parrot recovery program

Federal and local scientists will meet next month to debate how best to revive a species that numbered more than 1 million in the 1800s but dwindled to 13 birds during the 1970s after decades of forest clearing

'It was devastating. After so many years of having worked on this project...,' she stopped talking and sighed.

The Puerto Rican Amazon is Puerto Rico's only remaining native parrot and is one of roughly 30 species of Amazon parrots found in the Americas.

The red-foreheaded birds grow to nearly a foot in length, are known for their secrecy and usually mate for life, reproducing once a year.

More than 460 birds remain captive at the breeding centers in El Yunque and Rio Abajo forests, but scientists have not released any of them since Hurricane Maria.

A third breeding center in a forest in the western rural town of Maricao has not operated since the storm.

While several dozen new parrots have been born in captivity and in the wild since Hurricane Maria, the species is still in danger, according to scientists

A RECORD YEAR FOR NATURAL DISASTERS A total of 16 disasters cost the US $1 billion or more in 2017, said the report by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The previous costliest year for the US was 2005 with losses of $215 billion driven in large part by Hurricanes Katrina, Wilma and Rita. These events included 1 drought event, 2 flooding events, 1 freeze event, 8 severe storm events, 3 tropical cyclone events, and 1 wildfire event. Overall, these events resulted in the deaths of 362 people and had significant economic effects on the areas impacted. Last year, the western wildfire season -- which ravaged large parts of California - cost $18 billion, 'tripling the previous US annual wildfire cost record,' said the report. Hurricane Harvey, which dumped some 50 inches (127 centimeters) of rain on Texas, cost $125 billion, second only to 2005's Hurricane Katrina in historical records of billion-dollar disasters, going back four decades. Hurricane Maria, which flattened much of Puerto Rico, cost $90 billion, while Hurricane Irma, which plowed into the Caribbean and Florida, cost $50 billion.

Scientists are now trying to determine the best way to prepare the parrots for release since there are such few birds in the wild they can interact with, and whether Puerto Rico's damaged forests can sustain them.

One proposal scientists will consider is whether to capture some of the remaining wild parrots in the Rio Abajo forest and place them into the same cage as birds that will be released into the wild, so they can learn to emulate their social behavior to ensure their survival, said Jafet Velez, a wildlife biologist with U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service.

Scientists are tentatively planning to release 20 birds next year in Rio Abajo.

Another proposal is to release more parrots in Maricao, which was not as heavily damaged by Maria.

'Our priority now is not reproduction...it's to start releasing them,' Lopez said, adding that breeding centers can hold only so many parrots.

But first, scientists need to make sure the forests can offer food and safe shelter.

Jessica Ilse, a forest biologist at el Yunque for the U.S. Forest Service, said scientists are collecting data about the amount of fruit falling from trees and the number of leaves shed.

She said the canopy still has not grown back since Maria and warned that invasive species have taken root since more sunlight now shines through.

Ilse said that many of the large trees where parrots used to nest are now gone and noted that it took 14 months for El Yunque's canopy to close after Hurricane Hugo hit Puerto Rico in 1989 as a Category 3 storm.

Researchers take coordinates of the area where they will establish an observation platform and nesting areas for the endangered Puerto Rican Parrot

The Puerto Rican Parrot requires particular tree structures to establish nesting areas. But, much of its habitat was destroyed during Hurricane Maria

More than 460 birds remain captive at the breeding centers in El Yunque and Rio Abajo forests, but scientists have not released any of them since Hurricane Maria.

Scientists also are now collecting new data on the number of predators at El Yunque, including el guaraguao, a red-tailed hawk that hunts Puerto Rico parrots.

Without a canopy and proper camouflage, wild parrots have become an easy target.

Ilse said local and federal scientists plan to help the forest recover through planting.

By the end of November, they expect to have a map detailing the most damaged areas in El Yunque and a list of tree species they can plant that are more resistant to hurricanes.

'People keep asking us, 'How long is it going to take?'' Ilse said. But scientists don't know, she added.

'The damage is more extensive than (hurricanes) Hugo and Georges...It's been a complete change to the ecosystem.'

Scientists are now trying to determine the best way to prepare the parrots for release since there are such few birds in the wild they can interact with, and whether Puerto Rico's damaged forests can sustain them

====== 1457 ========

WHY CATS ARE SO GOOD AT GROOMING: SCIENTISTS DISCOVER THEIR TONGUES ARE COVERED IN CLAW-LIKE HOOKS

Cat lovers know when kitties groom, their tongues are pretty scratchy. Using high-tech scans and some other tricks, scientists are learning how those sandpapery tongues help cats get clean and stay cool.

The secret: Tiny hooks that spring up on the tongue - with scoops built in to carry saliva deep into all that fur.

A team of mechanical engineers reported the findings Monday, and say they're more than a curiosity. They could lead to inventions for pets and people.

Scroll down for video

Using high-tech scans and some other tricks, scientists are learning how those sandpapery tongues help cats get clean and stay cool

'Their tongue could help us apply fluids, or clean carpets, or apply medicine' to hairy skin, said Georgia Tech lead researcher Alexis Noel, who is seeking a patent for a 3D-printed, tongue-inspired brush.

Cats are fastidious, spending up to a quarter of their waking hours grooming. Noel's interest was piqued when her cat, Murphy, got his tongue stuck in a fuzzy blanket.

Scientists had long thought cat tongues were studded with tiny cone-shaped bumps.

Noel, working in a lab known for animal-inspired engineering, wondered why.

First, CT scans of cats' tongues showed they're not covered in solid cones but in claw-shaped hooks.

Researchers found that tiny hooks spring up on the tongue - with scoops built in to carry saliva deep into all that fur. Scientists had long thought cat tongues were studded with tiny cone-shaped bumps

The image above shows a comparison of feline papillae, or the claw-like features on their tongues, from CT scans. Papillae were only slightly longer in lions than in housecats, although larger felines' bigger tongues hold many hundreds more, the team says

They lie flat and rear-facing, out of the way until, with a twitch of the tongue muscle, the little spines spring straight up, she explained.

The big surprise: Those spines contain hollow scoops, Noel found. Turning to zoos and taxidermists for preserved tongues to examine, she found bobcats, cougars, snow leopards, even lions and tigers share that trait.

When Noel touched the tips of preserved spines - called papillae - with drops of food dye, they wicked up the liquid.

A housecat's nearly 300 papillae hold a small amount of saliva that's released when the tongue presses on fur, and then they wick up some more.

The tongue's surface is wetter. But Noel saw clues that the spines were key to deep cleaning.

The team also found that those spines contain hollow scoops. Turning to zoos and taxidermists for preserved tongues to examine, she found bobcats, cougars, snow leopards, even lions and tigers share that trait. A closeup of a tiger's tongue is pictured

HOW DO CATS' ROUGH TONGUES OPTIMIZE GROOMING? By capturing macro and high speed videos of cats grooming, Georgia Tech researchers have found that the features on felines' tongues are like tiny claws in both shape and sharpness. These, they say, act like heat-seeking missiles for tangles. The researchers also found that cats' tongues are self-cleaning. The findings could be used to improve the gripping abilities of soft robotic systems or for wound cleaning. And, it could make for better hairbrushes for human grooming.

Papillae were only slightly longer in lions than in housecats, although larger felines' bigger tongues hold many hundreds more, Noel and Georgia Tech associate professor David L. Hu reported in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

Next, Noel measured cat fur, which holds lots of air to insulate like a down jacket.

Sure enough, compress that fur and in numerous types of cat, the distance to the skin matches the length of the tongue's spines, she found.

An exception: Persian cats with their super-long fur that veterinarians caution must be brushed daily to avoid matting.

A machine that mimicked the strokes of a cat's grooming found saliva from the tongue's surface alone simply can't penetrate as deep.

And a thermal camera showed as they groomed, evaporating saliva cooled the cats.

====== 1458 ========

WORLD'S SMALLEST DINOSAUR TRACKS: 110 MILLION-YEAR-OLD FOOTPRINTS BELONG TO A SPARROW-SIZED RAPTOR

Researchers have discovered the smallest dinosaur tracks ever found, with each footprint measuring just 1 centimeter long.

The experts say the tiny carnivorous dinosaur was roughly the size of a sparrow, and walked on legs that were each only about the length of a matchstick.

The 110 million-year-old footprints found at an excavation site in South Korea indicate the creature that left them was a raptor, having two toes planted on the ground and a third that retracted like a cat's claw.

Researchers have discovered the smallest dinosaur tracks ever found, with each footprint measuring just 1 centimeter long. The experts say the tiny carnivorous dinosaur was roughly the size of a sparrow. An artist's impression is pictured

'These new tracks are just one centimetre in length, which means the dinosaur that made them was an animal you could have easily held in your hand,' says University of Queensland researcher Anthony Romilio.

'They are the world's smallest dinosaur tracks.'

Romilio was part of a team that examined the ancient footprints that were first found in Jinju Innovation City in 2011.

He says he was shocked when he saw the tiny tracks.

'We knew they were raptor tracks, because we know what they look like. It was the size that was the extraordinary component,' Dr Romilio told AAP on Friday, after an article on the findings was released in an international science journal.

'They are the world's smallest dinosaur tracks,' he said.

The researchers are unsure if the tracks were adult carnivorous dinosaurs or their chicks but are leaning towards them being the babies. The team says the creature walked on legs that were each only about the length of a matchstick

The 110 million-year-old footprints found at an excavation site in South Korea indicate the creature that left them was a raptor, having two toes planted on the ground and a third that retracted like a cat's claw

The researchers are unsure if the tracks were adult carnivorous dinosaurs or their chicks but are leaning towards them being the babies.

'Very small dinosaur species like the Chinese Microraptor were crow-sized, but these had feet too large to match the South Korean footprints,' Dr Romilio said.

'If the tracks were made by dinosaur chicks, we are unclear as to the specific dinosaur that made them, since dinosaurs such as Velociraptor and Utahraptor had larger feet then the ones discovered in these new tracks.'

Chinese Microraptors are believed to have been fish eaters, the researchers said, but it's unclear what kinds of meat the carnivorous, sparrow-sized raptors feasted on.

At the site, the team has also found tracks made by birds, pterosaurs, lizards, turtles, mammals, and even frogs.

'These new tracks are just one centimetre in length, which means the dinosaur that made them was an animal you could have easily held in your hand,' says University of Queensland researcher Anthony Romilio

Dr Romilio said the tracks were first found by Professor Kyung Soo Kim from Chinju National University of Education, South Korea.

He was there to look for signs of cultural heritage to rescue and conserve as construction in Jinju was underway.

'You've got to hand it to him, spotting it ... We say he has an eagle eye,' Dr Romilio says.

The team has dubbed the tracks 'Dromaeosauriformipes rarus,' which means 'rare footprints made by a member of the raptor family,' Kim says.

====== 1459 ========

TWO STARS IN THE MILKY WAY ARE SPINNING SO QUICKLY IT COULD EXPLODE IN A CELESTIAL FIREWORK DISPLAY

A swirling cloud of dust around a doomed star system 8,000 light years from Earth could set off one of the most extreme events in the universe.

The dramatic star system features two stars close together spinning so rapidly they are ripping each other apart.

Astronomers have witnessed the dust around the massive 'Wolf-Rayet' stars in the Milky Way and found one of the luminous stars is on the brink of a massive supernova explosion.

Astronomers claim Earth is safe from the blast of the doomed celestial system as any explosion would occur in the opposite direction to our planet.

The system, comprising a pair of luminous stars, was nicknamed Apep by researchers after the serpentine Egyptian god of chaos.

Scroll down for video

The system, comprising a pair of luminous stars, was nicknamed Apep by researchers after the serpentine Egyptian god of chaos (pictured). One of the pair is the first known candidate in the Milky Way to produce mysterious gamma-ray bursts - GRBs

The star system is like none seen anywhere else in our galaxy in our galaxy.

One of the pair is the first known candidate in the Milky Way to produce mysterious gamma-ray bursts - GRBs.

GRBs throw out huge amounts of material in the form of a powerful stellar wind, hurling matter outwards at millions of miles per hour.

If Earth was in the firing line it would be catastrophic.

The high-energy gamma rays would remove all ozone from the atmosphere, drastically increasing our exposure to UV light from the Sun.

Wolf-Rayet stars are amongst the hottest stars in the Universe and produce powerful winds of hot gas.

They often represent the last stage in the life-cycle of the most massive stars before they reach supernova.

Findings from the ESO's Very Large Telescope (VLT) have been published in the journal Nature Astronomy and are controversial as no GRB has ever been detected within our own galaxy, the Milky Way.

WHAT ARE GAMMA RAY BURSTS? Gamma ray bursts (GRBs), energetic jets of gamma rays that come from black holes, can be created in two different ways – resulting in long or short GRBs. They are created from some of the most violent deaths in the universe. Long GRBs last about a minute, and scientist think they are produced by supernova: when the core of a massive star collapses to become a black hole. Short GRBs last a second and are produced when two neutron stars merge.

The mysterious bursts of gamma radiation can release as much energy as the Sun will output over its entire lifetime over just a few thousandths of a second.

The unique star system is located in the southern constellation of Norma, nestled just beneath Scorpio's tail.

Researchers analysed the velocity of the stellar winds using spectroscopy and discovered they are moving at up to 12 million kilometres an hour, about one per cent the speed of light.

Long-duration GRBs, those which last for longer than two seconds, are believed to be caused by the supernova explosions of rapidly-rotating Wolf-Rayet stars.

Some of the most massive stars evolve into Wolf-Rayet stars towards the end of their lives.

This stage is short-lived, and Wolf-Rayets survive in this state for only a few hundred thousand years.

In this relatively short period of time in a star's lifespan it scatters a huge amount of debris.

Lead author Dr Joe Callingham of the University of Sydney said: 'When we saw the stunning dust plume coiled around the these incandescent stars, we decided to name it 'Apep' - the monstrous serpent deity and mortal enemy of Sun god Ra from Egyptian mythology.'

Astronomers have witnessed the dust around Wolf-Rayet stars in the Milky Way that create powerful winds. The dramatic star system features two stars close together spinning so rapidly they are ripping each other apart (file photo)

Professor Peter Tuthill, co-autgor of the study, added: 'When we saw the spiral dust tail we immediately knew we were dealing with a rare and special kind of nebula called a pinwheel.

'The curved tail is formed by the orbiting binary stars at the centre, which inject dust into the expanding wind creating a pattern like a rotating lawn sprinkler.

'Because the wind expands so much, it inflates the tiny coils of dust revealing the physics of the stars at the heart of the system.'

However, the data on the plume presented a conundrum: the stellar winds were expanding 10 times faster than the dust.

Professor Tuthill noted: 'It was just astonishing. It was like finding a feather caught in a hurricane just drifting along at walking pace.'

WHAT ARE BLACK HOLES? Black holes are so dense and their gravitational pull is so strong that no form of radiation can escape them - not even light. They act as intense sources of gravity which hoover up dust and gas around them. Their intense gravitational pull is thought to be what stars in galaxies orbit around. How they are formed is still poorly understood. Supermassive black holes are incredibly dense areas in the centre of galaxies with masses that can be billions of times that of the sun. They cause dips in space-time (artist's impression) and even light cannot escape their gravitational pull Astronomers believe they may form when a large cloud of gas up to 100,000 times bigger than the sun, collapses into a black hole. Many of these black hole seeds then merge to form much larger supermassive black holes, which are found at the centre of every known massive galaxy. Alternatively, a supermassive black hole seed could come from a giant star, about 100 times the sun's mass, that ultimately forms into a black hole after it runs out of fuel and collapses. When these giant stars die, they also go 'supernova', a huge explosion that expels the matter from the outer layers of the star into deep space.

Co-author Dr Benjamin Pope from New York University, said: 'The key to understanding the bizarre behaviour of the wind lies in the rotation of the central stars.

'What we have found in the Apep system is a supernova precursor that seems to be very rapidly rotating, so fast it might be near break-up.

'The rapid rotation puts Apep into a whole new class. Normal supernovae are already extreme events but adding rotation to the mix can really throw gasoline on the fire.'

Professor Tuthill said: 'Ultimately, we can't be certain what the future has in store for Apep.

'The system might slow down enough so it explodes as a normal supernova rather than a gamma-ray burst.

'However, in the meantime, it is providing astronomers a ringside seat into beautiful and dangerous physics that we have not seen before in our galaxy.'

====== 1460 ========

IPHONE USERS CAN HOLD DOWN THE SPACE BAR WHEN TEXTING TO MOVE THE CURSOR

An iPhone user has found a time-saving trick to help you rapidly edit your texts.

Holding down the space bar key on your screen allows you to easily edit messages without the annoyance of tapping individual words.

Food blogger Krissy Brierre Davis tweeted a screenshot of her discovery on Twitter, saying she felt 'duped' about the keyboard hack she never knew about.

To use the feature, iPhone users should tap and hold down on the space bar key and this allows you to move your cursor to the left, right and downwards. Pictured here, the screenshot Kirsty tweeted to her followers

She wrote: 'How come you guys never told me this iPhone trick? I feel duped. by sliding her finger along the space bar to move the cursor.'

Ms Bierre Davis, from Atlanta, continued: 'If you click and hold the space bar, you can move the cursor instead of trying to drag the cursor itself with your fat thumb lol.'

To use the feature, iPhone users should tap and hold down on the space bar key and this allows you to move your cursor to the left, right and downwards.

For Brierre-Davis, the iPhone trick is going to make fixing typos way simpler.

'I could never get the cursor to go where I wanted,' she said. 'I've even deleted a full sentence just to avoid having to go back and change a mistake in a word.'

Many users were left gobsmacked by the trick after seeing it working on their own phones.

The rarely known feature allows you to easily edit messages you haven't yet sent without the annoyance of clicking on individual words on the screen. Krissy Brierre Davis, a food blogger, tweeted a screenshot of her discovery on Twitter saying she felt 'duped' about the hack

One wrote: 'OMG My life has just changed.'

While another wrote: 'You just saved me so much time. My sausage fingers take forever!!'

Cinque Caps wrote: 'This is the best thing I've learned in 2018.'

Others shared that it was old news and that it has been known by people for a while.

Jonathan wrote: 'This feature has been out since 2015.'

Kirsty wrote: 'How come you guys never told me this iPhone trick? I feel duped. by sliding her finger along the space bar to move the cursor.' Many social media users replied that they were dumbfounded by the rarely known feature

While another wrote: 'Knew about this forever.'

Kirsty received some critical remarks from users who say they knew about the feature for some time prompting Kirsty to write a retaliation.

'Some of y'all are trolls to the 10th power. If you already knew about the feature, then keep scrolling,' she wrote.

'OBVIOUSLY if everyone knew about it, you wouldn't see so many shocked.'

====== 1461 ========

SPERM WHALE IS FOUND DEAD WITH 115 PLASTIC DRINKING CUPS AND TWO FLIP-FLOPS IN STOMACH IN INDONESIA

A dead whale that washed ashore in eastern Indonesia has been found to have a 13lbs lump of plastic waste in its stomach, including 115 plastic drinking cups and two flip-flops.

Rescuers found the rotting carcass of the 31-foot male sperm whale on Monday near Kapota waters in the Southeast Sulawesi province, according to Wakatobi National Park chief Heri Santoso.

The waste in its stomach included 115 plastic cups, four plastic bottles, 25 plastic bags, two flip-flops, a nylon sack and more than 1,000 other plastic pieces.

Plastic not-so-fantastic: The whale found in Sulawesi, Indonesia had 115 plastic cups, four plastic bottles, 25 plastic bags, two flip-flops, a nylon sack and more than 1,000 other plastic pieces in its stomach

The cause of the death was still unknown and the carcass was to be buried on Tuesday without a necropsy because of its decayed condition.

Dwi Suprapti, a marine species conservation coordinator at WWF Indonesia, said: 'Although we have not been able to deduce the cause of death, the facts that we see are truly awful.'

Indonesia, an archipelago of 260 million people, is the world's second-largest plastic polluter after China, according to a study published in the journal Science in January.

It produces 3.2 million tons of mismanaged plastic waste a year, of which 1.29 million tons ends up in the ocean, the study said.

Clean-up: A man removes plastic items, including flip-flop shoes and plastic cups from the sperm whale's stomach

The cause of the sperm whale's death remains unknown and the carcass will be buried today

Heavy: In total, the 31-foot whale had 13lbs of plastic waste in its stomach

Luhut Binsar Pandjaitan, Indonesia's coordinating minister of maritime affairs, said the whale's discovery should raise public awareness about the need to reduce plastic use, and had spurred the government to take tougher measures to protect the ocean.

'I'm so sad to hear this,' said Mr Pandjaitan, who recently has campaigned for less use of plastic.

'It is possible that many other marine animals are also contaminated with plastic waste and this is very dangerous for our lives.'

He said the government is making efforts to reduce the use of plastic, including urging shops not to provide plastic bags for customers and teaching about the problem in schools nationwide to meet a government target of reducing plastic use by 70 per cent by 2025.

'This big ambition can be achieved if people learn to understand that plastic waste is a common enemy,' he told AP.

====== 1462 ========

EARTH IS SWALLOWING TRILLIONS OF TONS OF WATER INTO ITS INTERIOR AS TECTONIC PLATES COLLIDE

Staggering amounts of water are being pulled deep into Earth’s interior as a result of tectonic activity.

And, scientists aren’t quite sure where it all ends up.

A new study using ocean-bottom seismographs across the Mariana Trench has found that Earth’s subduction zones drag down roughly three times more water than previously estimated.

According to the new calculations, the phenomenon amounts to 3 billion teragrams of water every million years, with one teragram alone equaling a billion kilograms, Live Science reports.

Scroll down for video

Staggering amounts of water are being pulled deep into Earth’s interior as a result of tectonic activity. And, scientists aren’t quite sure where it all ends up. File photo

‘People knew that subduction zones could bring down water, but they didn’t know how much water,’ said lead author Chen Cai, from Washington University.

In the new study published to the journal Nature, the researchers used data from over a year’s worth of rumblings collected by 19 passive seismographs across the Mariana Trench.

They also looked at data from seven island-based seismographs.

This allowed for a more detailed picture of how the Pacific plate bends into the trench, revealing new insight on how the rocks hold onto water deep beneath the surface.

‘This research shows that subduction zones move far more water into Earth’s deep interior – many miles below the surface – than previously thought,’ said Candace Major, a program director in the National Science Foundation’s Division of Ocean Sciences.

‘The results highlight the important role of subduction zones in Earth’s water cycle.’

According to the team, the extreme pressure and temperature conditions cause water to become trapped in the rock as the plate travels down into the crust and upper mantle along fault lines.

While it was known that the subducting plate could hold water, researchers did not have a clear picture of how much water this amounts to – or how deep it goes.

‘Previous estimates vary widely in the amount of water that is subducted deeper than 60 miles,’ says aid Doug Wiens, the Robert S. Brookings Distinguished Professor in Earth and Planetary Sciences in Arts & Sciences.

‘The main source of uncertainty in these calculations was the initial water content of the subducting uppermost mantle.’

A new study using ocean-bottom seismographs across the Mariana Trench has found that Earth’s subduction zones drag down roughly three times more water than previously estimated

The researchers say the new method is far more precise, with seismic images that show the area of hydrated rock at the Mariana Trench extends nearly 20 miles beneath the seafloor.

And with that, they say, comes a lot of water locked within.

‘Previous conventions were based on active source studies, which can only show the top 3-4 miles into the incoming plate,’ Cai said.

‘They could not be very precise about how thick it is, or how hydrated it is. Our study tried to constrain that. If water can penetrate deeper into the plate, it can stay there and be brought down to deeper depths.’

At the Mariana Trench, the researchers estimate four times more water is dragged into the interior than previously thought.

WHAT IS THE MARIANA TRENCH? The Mariana Trench is the deepest part of the world's oceans located in the western Pacific Ocean, to the east of the Mariana Islands. The trench is 1,580 miles (2,550 km) long but has an average width of only 43 miles (69 km). The distance between the surface of the ocean and the trench's deepest point, the Challenger Deep is nearly 7 miles (11 km). Director James Cameron became the first solo diver to reach the bottom of Challenger Deep in 2012.

On a global scale, they say it works out to be three times more water than thought.

‘If other old, cold subducting slabs contain similarly thick layers of hydrous mantle, then estimates of the global water flux into the mantle at depths greater than 60 miles must be increased by a factor of about three,’ Wiens said.

What exactly happens to the water after it’s pulled down into the trench remains unclear. It’s thought that most returns to the atmosphere as water vapor through faraway volcanic eruptions.

But, the new estimates suggest more water is being pulled into the interior than it lets out.

‘The estimates of water coming back out through the volcanic arc are probably very uncertain,’ Wines said. ‘This study will probably cause some re-evaluation.’

====== 1463 ========

INSTAGRAM CRACKS DOWN ON FAKE FOLLOWERS: FIRM LAUNCHES AI TOOLS TO SPOT 'INAUTHENTIC ACTIVITY'

Instagram is taking action against services that sell fake followers, likes and comments.

In a blog post Monday, the social media giant said it was rolling out new machine learning tools designed to spot and remove these kinds of 'inauthentic activity.'

Users have long been able to take advantage of third-party apps that promise big boosts in their follower count, among other benefits.

Scroll down for video

In a blog post Monday, Instagram said it was rolling out new machine learning tools designed to spot and remove these kinds of 'inauthentic activity' - fake followers, likes and comments

'Every day people come to Instagram to have real experiences, including genuine interactions,' Instagram explained.

'It is our responsibility to ensure these experiences aren't disrupted by inauthentic activity.

'Starting today, we will begin removing inauthentic likes, follows and comments from accounts that use third-party apps to boost their popularity,' the firm added.

Accounts that use these third-party services will receive an in-app message telling them Instagram has scrubbed the fake likes, follows and comments.

They'll also be instructed to change their password, as many users are required to share their credentials with the third-party services that sell fake engagement and followers.

'Not only does this introduce bad behavior into the Instagram community, it also makes these accounts less secure,' the firm added.

Accounts that use these third-party services will receive a message telling them Instagram has scrubbed the fake likes, follows and comments. It will also tell them to change their passwords

Instagram said it will continue to monitor these kinds of activity in the future.

It also warned that any users who continue to use third-party apps to grow their audience 'may see their Instagram experience impacted.'

An Instagram spokesperson told TechCrunch that this could entail limited access to 'certain features' for users.

Other firms that have detected activity violating their policies, such as Twitter, have temporarily banned or locked a user out of their account.

Instagram said inauthentic likes, follows and comments violate its Community Guidelines and Terms of Use.

'Today’s update is just another step in keeping Instagram a vibrant community where people connect and share in authentic ways,' the firm wrote.

Services that provide inauthentic followers, comments and likes, such as Instagress and Social Growth have recently been shut down. Others, such as InstarocketProX (pictured), are active

On InstarocketProX's website, it details the process of generating engagement and followers for accounts. The firm charges between $10 and $45 a month, according to TechCrunch

'We’ll have more updates in the coming weeks on additional measures we’re taking to tackle inauthentic activity on Instagram.'

Many services that provide inauthentic followers, comments and likes, such as Instagress and Social Growth have recently been shut down.

Others, such as InstarocketProX, Boostio and Archie remain active, charging users anywhere between $10 and $45 a month, according to TechCrunch.

On InstarocketProX's website, it details the process of generating engagement and followers for accounts.

'We will interact [like, comment, or follow] with targeted accounts from your account to bring back awareness to your account,' the site explains.

'They’ll get a notification that you liked their photo, commented on their post or followed them and come back to check out your page and see your content.'

Instagram's crack down on fake follower services come as it also doubled down on fake accounts in August.

The firm launched an 'about this account' feature that shows users who is really behind a certain username.

====== 1464 ========

FACEBOOK MESSENGER IS DOWN: CHAT APP CRASHES FOR USERS AROUND THE WORLD

Facebook’s messaging app has crashed around the world.

Frustrated Messenger users from the US to the UK have reported that they are unable to access the service this afternoon.

Facebook's main site also appears to be affected by the outage, though not as severely as the standalone chat app.

It comes just days after Facebook suffered a 'total blackout' that affected the social media site and its other platforms, including WhatsApp and Instagram.

Messenger users in Europe were hit hardest by the outage, though issues were also reported along the US West Coast

Most users (49 percent) reported they were unable to connect to the server on Monday afternoon.

Many also indicated that they were having trouble receiving messages (28 percent), while others said they could not log in at all (22 percent).

The app appears to have crashed shortly after 3 p.m. (ET), with thousands of reports streaming in before 3:30.

Messenger users in Europe were worst affected by the issue Monday afternoon, with a majority of reports coming from the UK, Ireland, Poland, Belgium, and Denmark.

Users in the United States were hit by the outage as well, with most of the issues here popping up along the West Coast.

Just last week, Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram users around the world were left in a 'total blackout' for nearly an hour after the site crashed early on Nov 12.

Those who attempted to access the desktop site were met with a message saying 'Sorry, something went wrong,' while mobile users were unable to refresh the News Feed.

As usual, many turned to other social media platforms to share memes and express their gripes about the issues.

A widespread issue hit also hit Facebook in July, with Android users in some parts of the world unable to access the social network for up to ten hours.

It was believed to be an issue with an update that caused the problem.

====== 1465 ========

THE ROBOT THAT WILL SAVE YOU A PARKING SPACE ON BLACK FRIDAY

Days of circling the parking lot looking for a space may be a thing of the past.

A new service, called MyPark, aims to make finding a spot much easier by letting users reserve it beforehand.

When a spot is reserved, MyPark 'automatically knows your there' and deploys a smartphone-controlled robot to make sure no one takes your place.

Scroll down for video

Days of circling the parking lot looking for a space may be a thing of the past. A new service, called MyPark, aims to make finding a spot much easier by letting users reserve it beforehand

HOW DOES IT WORK? Download the MyPark app and make an account. Then, enter your destination and select a parking space from the map. Each spot costs a few dollars to reserve. After a spot is reserved and paid for, MyPark automatically deploys its robot device that will hold the space until you arrive. Once you get to your destination, tap 'Let me in' on the app and the robot collapses so that your car can drive over it. Users can book a spot for immediate use or up to six months in advance.

Several malls, airports and venues around the U.S. have already taken advantage of the technology in their parking lots.

Each MyPark space has a small, collapsible robot that folds up when a spot has been reserved.

Users download the app, make an account and enter their destination.

From there, they'll be prompted to select a parking space from a map of the location's parking lot.

Most of the spaces reserved by MyPark are located near the entrance to your destination, so it not only saves users the time of finding a spot, but also the hassle of a long walk.

Users can either reserve a spot immediately before they arrive using the 'Park now' feature, or for sometime in the future, as the app lets users reserve a parking space up to six months in advance.

Each reservation costs users a fee of about $1 to $3 for the first two hours and then additional charges for every additional hour after that.

A black and yellow flag is situated on top of the robotic device, letting other drivers know that it's a MyPark spot.

When users arrive at their reserved spot, they tap 'Let me in' on the MyPark app and the robot collapses into itself, so that the user can drive over it and park their car.

'What if you could park in a space closest to your destination, when you want? Convenient parking is often a challenge, so we created an app that makes parking easy,' MyPark's website explains.

'You can book in advance or right when you get to where you are going.

'Open the app, choose an area and you'll be parking like you own the place,' it continues.

Users download the app, make an account and enter their destination. From there, they'll be prompted to select a parking space from a map of the location's parking lot

When users arrive at their reserved spot, they tap 'Let me in' on the MyPark app and the robot collapses into itself, so that the user can drive over it and park their car

The firm behind MyPark has secured deals with major US mall operators, such as Simon Property Group and the Mall of America, according to Axios.

It has partnered with malls in New York, Georgia, Florida, Minnesota and other areas.

Since its launch, MyPark has also rolled out a validation feature which lets merchants reimburse customers for using the service, likely in a bid to attract more people to their business.

'When you're done eating, for example, you just ask your waiter to validate your MyPark session,' Luis Mayendia, CEO of MyPark, told KARE 11 News.

'Then they input a code on your app and that automatically transfers...the session over to them. So you don't have to do anything else.'

====== 1466 ========

PULSATING ‘SEWER-MONSTER’ MADE UP OF TUBIFEX WORMS IS CAPTURED IN REVOLTING FOOTAGE

A pulsating 'sewage-monster' that greeted a disgusted homeowner after several days of constant rain has been captured on camera.

The mysterious footage, which shows the squirming mass of worms writhing in every direction, was found in shallow water outside an apartment in Houston, Texas.

It is believed the mass of worms could be a colony of tubifex worms, also known as sludge worms, or sewage worms.

WHAT ARE TUBIFEX WORMS? Tubifex worms have often been used as live fish food in the past, although they can be infected with various diseases when harvested from sewers. These aquatic worms have segmented, earthworm-like bodies that are sometimes covered in small bristles. The worms, which move like earthworms, travel by stretching and pulling. There are around 17,000 species in the world. They generally live in aquatic habitats including sewer systems and water containing lots of silt and decaying organic matter. When oxygen is low they may come to the surface, but generally they cling to submerged plants and other objects.

'The second I saw it, it didn't look right,' said the homeowner, who asked not to be named.

'I got up close and saw that it was moving and squirming. I had no idea of what it could be, but I could see the individual worms writhing around.'

One colony of tubifex worms was mistakenly identified as a 'sewer monster' after being found under Raleigh, North Carolina, with a pinhole camera in 2009.

Following the 2009 'sewer monster' scare, scientists explained that the tubifex worms had likely entered the drains by accident and – with no soil to cling to – clung to each other.

Bryozoologist Timothy Wood from Wright State University said: 'In the absence of soil they are coiling around each other.

'The contractions you see are the result of a single worm contracting and then stimulating all the others to do the same almost simultaneously, so it looks like a single big muscle contracting.'

Tubifex worms have often been used as live fish food in the past, although they can be infected with various diseases when harvested from sewers.

These aquatic worms have segmented, earthworm-like bodies that are sometimes covered in small bristles.

A bizarre 'worm-monster' that greeted a disgusted homeowner after several days of constant rain has been captured on camera

Mysterious footage shows the squirming mass with parts writhing in every direction outside an apartment in Houston, Texas

The worms, which move like earthworms, travel by stretching and pulling. There are around 17,000 species in the world.

They generally live in aquatic habitats including sewer systems and water containing lots of silt and decaying organic matter.

When oxygen is low they may come to the surface, but generally they cling to submerged plants and other objects.

The passerby was left disgusted.

The man who found them said: 'I am 32 years old and have never seen anything like this, despite frequent digging and coming across worms all the time.

It is believed the mass of worms, which was found in shallow water, could be a colony of tubifex worms, also known as sludge worms, or sewage worms

Tubifex worms, pictured in a fish tank, have often been used as live fish food in the past, although they can be infected with various diseases when harvested from sewers

'I almost decided to kill it. It was a squirming, throbbing, amorphous mound of tangled worms, with a constant stream of more worms drifting by.

'Some were getting absorbed into the mass, some were just floating by in the stream.

'The unnerving part to me was how many there were.

'Outside the frame of the video, there were that many more creating a new mass as they drifted down the little stream of water.

'I just don't understand how you could find such numbers joined together like that – it's repulsive on a deep level.'

====== 1467 ========

ELON MUSK SHARES VIDEO OF BREAKTHROUGH MOMENT THE BORING COMPANY FINISHES DIGGING ITS FIRST TUNNEL

Elon Musk's tunneling company has reached a major milestone.

The Boring Company finished digging out its first rapid-transit tunnel underneath Los Angeles, paving the way for the Hawthorne tunnel to become operational.

The billionaire tech mogul shared a 10-second video of the amazing moment a massive boring machine breaks through the other side of the tunnel.

Scroll down for video

In the video, a crowd of construction workers can be seen looking on as the tunneling machine emerges from the dirt.

The tunnel ends at 'O'Leary Station,' which the Boring Company named after an employee who recently passed away.

Musk celebrated the milestone by tweeting: 'Boring Company just broke through the other side!!'

'Congratulations @BoringCompany on completing the LA/Hawthorne tunnel! Cutting edge technology!,' he added.

The Boring Company began working on the two-mile-long test tunnel last year.

It'll be used for research and development of the Boring Company's tunneling and public transportation systems, according to the firm's website.

A crowd of construction workers can be seen looking on as the tunneling machine emerges from the dirt. The tunnel ends at O'Leary Station, named after an employee who passed away

The route begins at a SpaceX property near Crenshaw Boulevard and 120th Street in Los Angeles, turns west under 120th Street and extends for up to two miles.

The Boring Company describes the two-mile segment as only the 'first section' of what will likely be a longer version of Hawthorne Tunnel that's still in the works.

Last month, Musk shared a walk-through of the tunnel while it was still being built.

The firm still hopes to make the test tunnel open to the public on December 10th.

'Walked full length of Boring Co tunnel under LA tonight. Disturbingly long,' Musk tweeted late Saturday night.

Boring began working on the two-mile-long test tunnel last year. It'll be used for research and development of tunneling and public transportation systems, according to the firm's website

Last month, founder Elon Musk shared a walk-through of the tunnel while it was still being built. The firm still hopes to make the test tunnel open to the public on December 10th

'On track for opening party Dec. 10. Will be very one-dimensional.'

The Boring Company hopes to make the tunnel available for public rides the day after the opening event.

It sits under LA suburb Hawthorne and would be able to deliver passengers in private vehicles on 'skates' at dizzying speeds of 150mph.

Each vehicle can carry up to 16 passengers at once through the 'Loop' system.

This 'loop' technology differs form the proposed hyperloop technology which would transport people at much greater speeds by sucking the air out of a tunnel to reduce air resistance.

Boring hopes to offer passengers rides on the high-speed tunnels for just $1 in an effort to reduce traffic in congested LA.

The two-mile-long test tunnel sits under LA suburb Hawthorne and would be able to deliver passengers in private vehicles on 'skates' at dizzying speeds of 150mph

For now, the Loop system is limited to one tunnel, but Musk already has bigger plans in mind.

'We do expect to, over time, create a network of tunnels under greater LA,' Musk said in an interview with Recode.

'And I think this is really the key to getting around the city very fast. You've got to go 3D.'

Musk has already revealed plans to build a tunnel called 'Dugout Loop' that would ferry baseball fans to and from Dodger Stadium.

It would stretch over 3.6 miles and would be designed to accommodate about 100 pods.

====== 1468 ========

SWISS ARMY KNIFE OF PREHISTORIC WORLD IS DISCOVERED IN CHINA 130,000 YEARS EARLIER THAN THOUGHT

A prehistoric 'Swiss Army knife' used to spear, slice, scrape or dig has been discovered in China.

The 170,000-year-old tool, known as a 'Levallois stone', is a sign of advanced tool-making and is considered the 'multi-tool' of the prehistoric world.

Levallois stones have previously been found in East Africa, and are thought to have first appeared around 300,000 years ago.

Scientists had thought that this level of sophisticated tool making didn't emerge in East Asia until 40,000 years ago, but the new find pushes this figure back by 130,000 years.

Scroll down for video

The tools (pictured), known as a 'Levallois stones', were a distinctive type of stone knapping developed by our ancient ancestors

Levallois cores developed in Africa and Western Europe as far back as 300,000 years ago.

However, until now, this technology was not believed to have emerged in East Asia until 30,000 to 40,000 years ago.

Researchers believe people in Asia developed Levallois cores independently, according to the paper published in Nature.

'It used to be thought that Levallois cores came to China relatively recently with modern humans,' said author Ben Marwick, a University of Washington associate professor of anthropology.

'Our work reveals the complexity and adaptability of people there that is equivalent to elsewhere in the world. It shows the diversity of the human experience', he said.

Levallois-shaped cores were efficient and durable, indispensable to a hunter-gatherer society in which a broken spear point could mean certain death at the claws or jaws of a predator.

The cores were named for the Levallois-Perret suburb of Paris, where stone flakes were found in the 1800s.

Featuring a distinctive faceted surface, created through a sequence of steps, Levallois flakes were versatile 'blanks,' used to spear, slice, scrape or dig.

The knapping process represents a more sophisticated approach to tool manufacturing than the simpler, oval-shaped stones of earlier periods.

The Levallois artifacts examined in this study were excavated from Guanyindong Cave in Guizhou Province in the 1960s and 1970s.

The map shows where Levallois artifacts have been found. The oldest, dating to 337,000 years ago, have been found in Europe and Africa. The star on the map marks the site of Guanyindong Cave, where new research shows that this technology was used 80,000 to 170,000 years ago in Asia, much earlier than previously thought

The researchers analyzed more than 2,200 artifacts in total.

Researchers used optically stimulated luminescence (OSL) to date the artifacts.

OSL can establish age by determining when a sediment sample, down to a grain of sand, was last exposed to sunlight - and thus, how long an artefact may have been buried in layers of sediment.

'Dating for this site was challenging because it had been excavated 40 years ago, and the sediment profile was exposed to air and without protection', said Bo Li , an associate professor of archaeology at the University of Wollongong in Australia and one of the paper's corresponding authors.

'So trees, plants, animals, insects could disturb the stratigraphy, which may affect the dating results if conventional methods were used for dating.

'To solve this problem we used a new single-grain dating technique recently developed in our OSL lab at the University of Wollongong to date individual mineral grains in the sediment.

WHEN DID HUMANS START USING TOOLS? It is hard for scientists to say precisely when humans started making tools because the more primitive remains look like a natural object rather than a human artefact. The oldest-known instruments are the Oldowan stone tools from Ethiopia, which date back about 2.6 million years. The Acheulean tool technology period - up to 1.76 million years ago - featured large stone hand axes made from flint and quartzite. Towards the end of this period, the tools became more refined and then followed the so-called Levallois technique, which saw the creation of scrapers, slicers, needled and flattened needles. About 50,000 years ago more refined and specialised flint tools were made and used by Neanderthals and it is believed it was at this stage tools were constructed out of bone. As human culture advanced, artefacts such as fish hooks, buttons and bone needles were used. Cut marks have found on animal bones that have been dated to be 3.4 million years old - around the time that a squat ape-like ancestor called Australopithecus afarensis - known as Lucy - roamed Africa.

'Luckily we found residual sediment left over by the previous excavations, so that allowed us to take samples for dating.'

In Africa and Europe these kinds of stone tools are often found at archaeological sites starting from 300,000 and 200,000 years ago.

They are known as Mode III technology, part of a broad evolutionary sequence that was preceded by hand-axe technology (Mode II) and followed by blade tool technology (Mode IV).

The independent emergence of the Levallois technique at different times and places in the world is not unique in terms of prehistoric innovations.

Pyramid construction, for one, appeared in at least three separate societies: the Egyptians, the Aztecs and the Mayans.

Boatbuilding began specific to geography and reliant on a community's available materials. And writing, of course, developed in various forms with distinct alphabets and characters.

====== 1469 ========

NOT SO SUPERHEROES! ANT-MAN AND THE WASP WOULD SUFFER FROM OXYGEN DEPRIVATION

Marvel superheroes Ant-Man and the Wasp would need ultra high-tech helmets when shrinking down to insect-size to avoid dying from oxygen deprivation.

A study suggests that the fictional comic crime busting duo would suffer symptoms similar to altitude sickness.

The tiny human lungs would struggle to get enough oxygen from each breath and the effect would be akin to being in the 'death zone' on Mount Everest.

The 'death zone' point begins for a normal-sized human at about 26,000 feet (8,000 metres) above sea level.

Scroll down for video

Comic superheroes Ant-Man and the Wasp would need ultra high-tech helmets when shrunk down to insect-size - because otherwise they would struggle to breathe. Pictured: Ant Man and The Wasp starring Evangeline Lilly, left and Paul Rudd, right

Researchers wanted to test whether humans could retain their body mass and strength if they shrunk down to the size of an insect.

Ant Man and The Wasp was released in July 2018 and stars Paul Rudd and Evangeline Lilly. The characters possess the ability to shrink down to sub-atomic size.

The study shows that the atmospheric density at such a minuscule size would be comparable to a full-size adult standing at the top of Earth's tallest mountain.

Researchers calculated the shrunken superheroes would feel like they were at this altitude which would result in a case of potentially fatal altitude sickness.

However, special equipment using solution-microfluidic technologies could be embedded into the helmets of the characters to help them breathe while miniature.

The research team, from Virginia Tech University, has already developed such devices inspired by insect respiratory systems.

Engineering mechanics graduate student Max Mikel-Stites from Virginia Tech said: 'While the actual atmospheric density is the same for an insect and a human, the subjective atmospheric density experienced by a human who shrinks to insect size changes.

'For example, a normal-sized person taking a deep breath can expect to inhale some number of oxygen molecules.

'However, when that person is shrunk down to the size of an ant, despite still needing the same number of oxygen molecules, far fewer are available in a single breath of air.

The study suggested that the Marvel crime busting duo would face serious oxygen deprivation because the atmosphere at that size would feel like being at the top of a mountain. Here, Paul Rudd as Ant Man and Evangeline Lilly as The Wasp, right

Researchers calculated the shrunken superheroes would feel like they were at an altitude of 26,000 feet (7,998 mtrs), which would make for a serious - if not deadly - case of altitude sickness.

'For someone not acclimated, symptoms of altitude sickness range from headache and dizziness to the buildup of fluid in the lungs and brain, and possibly death.

'This occurs in part because people may respond by trying to breathe more rapidly, to increase their oxygen intake, and because the body is attempting to function with less oxygen than it normally does.'

According to the researchers, the use of microfluidic components such as Knudsen pumps (which are driven by temperature gradients) and microscale gas compressors, could be embedded into the helmets of Ant-Man and the Wasp to help them breathe at the microscale.

The research was presented at the American Physical Society's Division of Fluid Dynamics 71st Annual Meeting in Atlanta, Georgia.

====== 1470 ========

EIGHT-FOOT TALL TERMITE MOUNDS THAT ARE 4,000-YEARS-OLD ARE VISIBLE FROM SPACE

Scientists have found eight-foot tall termite mounds as old as the pyramids hidden in the Amazon.

The 4000-year-old mounds cover an area greater than Great Britain and can even be seen from Google Earth.

The 200 million cone-shaped mounds are not nests but are the result of the insects' slow and steady excavation of a network of interconnected underground tunnels.

The termites' activities over thousands of years required enough excavated soil to fill Wembley Stadium 2,500 times over.

Scroll down for video

Scientists have found eight-foot tall termite mounds as old as the pyramids hidden in the Amazon. The 4000-year-old mounds cover an area greater than Great Britain and can even be seen from Google Earth

WHAT DID THEY FIND? The 4000-year-old mounds cover an area greater than Great Britain and can even be seen from Google Earth. The termites' activities over thousands of years has resulted in huge quantities of soil deposited in approximately 200 million cone-shaped mounds. The mounds are largely hidden from view in the fully deciduous, thorny-scrub forests which are unique to northeastern Brazil. They'd only really come into view by 'outsiders,' including scientists, when some of the lands were cleared for pasture in recent decades. Termites normally build their huge skyscraper mounds to protect against predators and ventilate their homes, by allowing fresh air to get in to their nests. But the mounds in Brazil are just discarded earth, as termites there have evolved to live in airless chambers. Instead the mountains of earth are visual evidence of the massive tunnelling exercise needed to reach the leaves the termites eat, which fall in the forest only once a year following the rainy season. The tiny insects have excavated a billion cubic metres of soil so they can access a vast network of tunnels and never need to travel more than three feet in the open air, where they risk being eaten by giant ants.

Each mound is around 8 feet (2.5m) tall and 30 feet (9m) across, according to the research published in Current Biology.

'These mounds were formed by a single termite species that excavated a massive network of tunnels to allow them to access dead leaves to eat safely and directly from the forest floor,' said lead researcher Stephen Martin of the University of Salford.

'The amount of soil excavated is over 10 cubic kilometres, equivalent to 4,000 great pyramids of Giza, and represents one of the biggest structures built by a single insect species', he said.

'This is apparently the world's most extensive bioengineering effort by a single insect species,' said Roy Funch of Universidade Estadual de Feira de Santana in Brazil.

'Perhaps most exciting of all - the mounds are extremely old - up to 4,000 years, similar to the ages of the pyramids.'

The mounds, found in the Caatinga rainforest, are largely hidden from view in the fully deciduous, thorny-scrub forests which are unique to northeastern Brazil.

They'd only really come into view by 'outsiders,' including scientists, when some of the lands were cleared for pasture in recent decades.

Soil samples collected from the centres of 11 mounds and dated indicated that the mounds were filled 690 to 3,820 years ago.

That makes them about as old as the world's oldest known termite mounds in Africa.

Termites normally build their huge skyscraper mounds to protect against predators and ventilate their homes, by allowing fresh air to get in to their nests.

The mounds are not nests but are the result of the insects' slow and steady excavation of a network of interconnected underground tunnels

The termites' activities over thousands of years has resulted in huge quantities of soil deposited in approximately 200 million cone-shaped mounds

The mounds, found in the Caatinga rainforest, are largely hidden from view in the fully deciduous, thorny-scrub forests which are unique to northeastern Brazil

But the mounds in Brazil are just discarded earth, as termites there have evolved to live in airless chambers.

Instead the mountains of earth are visual evidence of the massive tunnelling exercise needed to reach the leaves the termites eat, which fall in the forest only once a year following the rainy season.

The tiny insects have excavated a billion cubic metres of soil so they can access a vast network of tunnels and never need to travel more than three feet in the open air, where they risk being eaten by giant ants.

Pictured is the distribution of the nests. Core areas are pictured in orange. The tiny insects have excavated a billion cubic metres of soil so they can access a vast network of tunnels

Pictured are the mounds from space (black dots to indicate each one). Soil samples collected from the centres of 11 mounds and dated indicated that the mounds were filled 690 to 3,820 years ago

'It's incredible that, in this day and age, you can find an 'unknown' biological wonder of this sheer size and age still existing, with the occupants still present,' Dr Martin said.

The researchers say there are many questions still to pursue.

For instance, no one knows how these termite colonies are physically structured because a queen chamber of the species has never been found.

The tiny insects have excavated a billion cubic metres of soil so they can access a vast network of tunnels and never need to travel more than three feet in the open air, where they risk being eaten by giant ants (stock image)



