David Hollingworth from L&C Mortgages, the broker behind the research, warned many home owners are likely to earn less after they've passed the age of retirement

A third of those who think they will still be paying off their mortgage in retirement believe they will have to continue working in order to afford the payments.

David Hollingworth from broker L&C Mortgages, which carried out the research, said: 'The fact that people increasingly have to work beyond their standard retirement age to pay off their mortgage is a concern.

'Many will see a dip in income post retirement which could pose affordability issues for older borrowers.'

One in ten homeowners in Britain aged over-55 fear that they will never be mortgage-free

However, a quarter of those surveyed said supporting family members financially was the reason they expected to pay back their mortgage later than planned.

A record 2,374 newly built houses in London are unsold and empty, with stamp duty rises blamed for bringing the market to a standstill. Latest figures for the end of September show a rise of almost 50 per cent since the start of the year.

====== 876 ========

CASH ISA RATES REACH TWO-AND-A-HALF YEAR HIGH

The past week has seen a flood of new savings deals give a welcome boost to cash Isa rates.

The launches include new easy access Isa accounts from Charter Savings Bank and Virgin Money paying 1.4 per cent interest - the highest rate available since June 2016.

A new market-beating three-year Isa from challenger bank Aldermore also launched as well as a top paying five-year deal from Charter Savings Bank.

While sadly banks are still only using tiny margins to better each other in the best-buy tables, it’s good news as cash Isas have received little competition over recent years.

Battling it out for savers: This week four new best buy Isa deals have launched

Since the launch of the personal savings allowance in 2016 there has been little competition for savers' cash as lower-rate tax payers can now earn up to £1,000 in interest tax-free, while higher rate payers get a slimmer £500.

The knock-on effect has been that cash Isa rates have lagged behind those of their taxable counterparts, however this week's flurry of rate improvements could signal a turn in tide for Isa interest.

What's on offer?

Charter Savings Bank pays 1.4 (or 1.39 per cent monthly) interest if you deposit £1,000 or more.

Savers also benefit from extra flexibility with this account, as the bank offers a mix and match Isa that allows you to open both fixed and easy access accounts under the same annual Isa limit.

Virgin Money’s Double Take E Isa 4 pays 1.4 per cent on a lower minimum deposit of £1, however it allows just two withdrawals a year.

This is the highest rate on offer since Punjab National Bank’s variable rate cash Isa paid 1.45 per cent back in June 2016, according to independent savings experts Savings Champion.

The new best buy offers leapfrogged Leeds Building Society’s reissued Limited Edition Online Access Isa, which launched just days before paying 1.38 per cent.

There has also been some movement in the fixed rate cash Isa tables.

Charter Savings Bank is now paying 1.6 per cent – the highest one-year deal on the market - alongside Al Rayan Bank. Both require a £1,000 minimum deposit, Al Rayan Bank however is Sharia compliant and therefore quotes an expected profit rate rather than guaranteed interest.

Just below sits Aldermore’s new one-year deal at 1.55 per cent. The challenger has also launched a new market-beating three-year Isa deal, paying 1.95 per cent.

The polished rate beats the next closest rival, Bank of Cyprus UK by 0.04 percentage points.

Charter Saving Bank’s round of rate improvements also included a new five-year fixed-rate Isa paying 2.26 per cent – a new best buy.

Finally, while not at the top of the tables, West Bromwich, has launched a clutch of new deals all with a minimum deposit of £1,000.

Its two-year Isa pays 1.65 per cent, a three-year deal paying 1.75 per cent and a five year rate of 2.05 per cent.

====== 877 ========

RETURN OF THE NOTICE ACCOUNT: SAVINGS DEALS OFFER RATES AS HIGH AS 1.8%

Savers who want to earn a higher rate without locking away their cash for a year or more should consider so-called notice accounts.

Notice accounts used to be very popular but, as interest rates plummeted and providers turned their attention to easy-access accounts, they fell by the wayside.

Now, they are making a comeback, offering rates as high as 1.8 per cent.

Comeback: With a notice account you are required to give your bank or building society 'notice' when you want access to your money

Notice accounts sit in between fixed deals, where you must tie up your money for a year or more, and easy-access accounts, which you can dip in and out of whenever you want.

As the name suggests, you are required to give your bank or building society 'notice' when you want access to your money.

This could be anything from 30 days to three months, depending on the deal — which means you must be very organised when planning to use your cash.

The good news is that a change in the rules means if your savings provider varies the rate on your account, then you can withdraw your money immediately without paying a penalty.

Previously, banks could lower the rate and force customers to wait out their notice period.

The accounts are on offer from a handful of building societies that operate in the High Street. They are also a firm favourite with new banks online.

Charter Savings Bank currently pays 1.81 per cent on its 95-day notice account. Secure Trust Bank pays a higher 1.82 per cent on its account requiring 90 days' notice of withdrawals.

In the High Street, Market Harborough Building Society's 60-day account pays 1.35 per cent and Kent Reliance 1.5 per cent, while Manchester and Skipton building societies pay 1 per cent on 35 and 45 days respectively.

So, how do these rates compare with others on offer? Charter Savings Bank's 1.81 per cent deal is 0.31 percentage points higher than the top easy-access account from Marcus by Goldman Sachs.

On top of this, it is also just 0.2 percentage points less than the top one-year fixed-rate bond, at 2.02 per cent from OakNorth Bank.

Market Harborough's 1.35 per cent comfortably beats all easy-access accounts, apart from Kent Reliance at 1.4 per cent.

It is also more flexible than the so-called easy-access account from Yorkshire BS, as its Single Access Saver at 1.3 per cent only lets you take out money on one day a year.

However, you do need to watch the terms and conditions. Secure Trust Bank, for example, says you can only make three withdrawals a year from its notice accounts.

A handful — such as Saffron BS 30 Day Notice Saver at 1.1 per cent and Monmouthshire BS Smart Tracker 30 Day Notice Account 2 at 1.3 per cent — let you take out money without giving notice.

But you will pay a penalty equal to 30 days' interest. At 1.3 per cent, a £1,000 withdrawal would cost you £1.07.

sy.morris@dailymail.co.uk

====== 878 ========

CHARTER SAVINGS BANK LAUNCHES TOP PAYING ONLINE EASY-ACCESS ISA AT 1.4%

Charter Savings Bank has launched an online easy-access Isa at 1.4 per cent

Charter Savings Bank has launched an online easy-access Isa at 1.4 per cent — the top payer of its kind.

Virgin Money has also upped its rate to 1.4 per cent for new savers opening a Double Take E-Isa. But it restricts you to two withdrawals a year.

Charter Savings Bank lets you spread your £20,000 cash Isa allowance for this tax year over fixed-rate and easy-access accounts.

With most providers, opening both an easy-access and fixed rate account would count as opening two separate cash Isas — which is not allowed under HMRC rules.

Ford Money, Newcastle Building Society and Nationwide also let you mix and match.

Any interest earned on an Isa is tax-free.

====== 879 ========

CAN I OPEN A NEW BANK ACCOUNT IF MINE HAS BEEN SHUT FOR FRAUD?

A crackdown on so-called money mules and behaviour that banks believe may be suspicious has led to This is Money being contacted by hundreds of readers who have had current accounts closed with little warning.

Often banks will provide little or no explanation to those affected.

Some customers claim they have been caught out by banks deciding their innocent transactions could be money laundering, but that complaints have fallen on deaf ears.

Among others are those who have been foolish and been lured into becoming a money mule, leaving a fraud marker by their name.

Young workers and students are among those targeted as mules, not realising that what they think is harmless - moving money about to earn a bit of extra cash - is actually facilitating fraud and crime.

There has been a rise in under-21's being used as money mules, but many don't know it's illegal

One reader was tempted into becoming a money mule and subsequently threatened by criminals that used him after he said he wanted to quit.

He now has a Cifas marker by his name that will be there for six years and is unable to get another bank account. He is deemed too risky to have as a customer.

Others readers maintain their innocence and have contacted us to say they have had their accounts closed with little warning - perhaps because they regularly move money between accounts or overseas.

So what can be done if you are unable to obtain a current account - and how easy is it to remove fraud markers? This is Money reveals all...

The rise of the money mules

There are a number of people who have found themselves 'bankless', due to having a marker by their name.

For a growing number of younger people it is because they have, often unwittingly, helped criminals transfer stolen money and acted as a 'money mule'.

Cifas, an organisation that aims to reduce and prevent fraud and financial crime, says there has been a 26 per cent increase in under-21s acting as money mules in the last year.

Money mules allow criminals to use their bank account to store cash, which has been obtained illegally, before sending it on to another account. The mule is promised a payment for their services.

Many of the younger people that have acted as mules often don't even know that what they are doing is illegal and are persuaded by professional crooks to give them access to their bank accounts.

If caught, money mules will likely have a fraud marker put against their name by their bank, which means their current bank account will be closed and it will be unlikely that they can open a bank account, take out a loan or be granted a mortgage.

Many of the young people that acted as mules often don't even know that what they are doing is illegal

Not only will getting caught impact their ability to open a bank account, it could also have more serious implications as the act can be punishable by up to 14 years in prison.

Another big worry for those who have a marker against their name is that it can stay there for up to six years, seriously impacting their future prospects.

So what can you do if you are unable to open a bank account or find out that you have a marker against your name or and want to get it removed?

A Cifas representative said: 'We operate a clear complaints procedure, and will investigate complaints on individuals' behalf to check that there are grounds within our rules for their case to be filed and we will support individuals to go the Financial Ombudsman Service or another appropriate regulator if needed.

'If an individual is aware of or believes Cifas data has impacted on a decision, they can request a copy of any data held by visiting our website, completing and returning a Subject Access Request form which is downloadable from our website, along with payment and appropriate proofs of identity and address.'

What to do if you think a marker has been unfairly put against your name Cifas is the not-for-profit organisation that aims to reduce and prevent fraud & financial crime If you feel like you have been unfairly turned down for a financial service, it is possible to appeal to Cifas, who hold a database of individuals who have carried out fraudulent activity. They receive information about fraudulent activity from their members, who are financial services providers, such as banks and credit card companies. Cifas said the steps to take, should there be any fraud data recorded in the individual's details, are as follows: 1. When data Cifas holds is being challenged, the organisation who recorded the information should be contacted in the first instance, outlining the reasons why the information recorded is disputed. This could be a bank, credit company or any other financial service provider. If they uphold your complaint, they can remove the entry and it will be deleted from our system. 2. Once the filing Cifas member has reviewed the case, they will issue a 'Final Response Letter' and if necessary, amend or delete any data held. A Final Response Letter is from the financial organisation, detailing their full response to the complaint. If a consumer remains dissatisfied and brings their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, they will use your final response as their starting point when they look at the case. 3. If the member does not uphold the complaint, Cifas can conduct their own review of the case. 4. If an individual disagrees with Cifas' response, the Financial Ombudsman Service can be contacted to review further. Visit Cifas' website here if you believe that data held by the service is impacting your ability to open a bank account.

What other financial markers could affect you?

The most common way that people find themselves downgraded for their financial status is when they have a bad credit score.

You may have a poor credit score if you haven't done something you have promised to do, for example, made payments on credit card bills, a loan or a mortgage on time. If you default on a loan or credit then you will suffer a severe downgrade.

If you are the ultimately declared bankrupt or have an Individual Voluntary Arrangement against your name, you will have a very low credit score and will find it difficult to get credit in future.

This means that, ultimately, many banks may refuse to open an account in your name as they don't believe that you would be a suitable candidate.

In the case of being marked down for credit, you need to contact credit reference agencies, which are used by financial firms to obtain reports on potential customers. They will allow you to check your file and you can read our guide to checking and improving your credit record here.

This is different to markers from Cifas, which is a fraud database. However, there have been a number of people who have found themselves with fraud markers against their name for no apparent reason or ones that have been added by mistake.

Significantly, if you are refused a financial service, there is no legal obligation to tell you why.

This can confuse many people and understandably, most people, if refused a financial service, would like to know why. It could be worth therefore checking with Cifas too.

Cifas says: 'To find out if you have been recorded to our database, you need to make a Data Subject Access Request – it will not show up on your credit report.'

What to do if you can't get a bank account?

Unfortunately, many companies will charge a customer more if they can't pay a direct debit or standing order and it is often essential to have a bank account for wages to be paid into.

If you cannot open a standard bank account, you should ask your bank about a basic account.

You can use these to receive money and pay bills, but they won't allow you to use an overdraft.

People can often get basic bank accounts if they can't get a standard bank account, but if they have been suspected of fraud or money laundering they may still be turned down.

Other options available to those who may not have access to a bank account include pre-paid cards which are essentially top up cards where the user pays cash to transfer money onto a card. That person can then use that card to pay for services.

It is also worth checking if your local credit union could help. The community run, not-for-profit organisations are known for acting in the interests of its members. They may be more open to allowing a member to join who has been denied by other banks.

If you are really struggling and need help, speak to Citizens Advice.

====== 880 ========

I HAVE INHERITED £40,000 FROM AUSTRALIA, DO I HAVE TO PAY TAX ON IT?

I'm due an inheritance from Australian deceased relative. I'm now a pensioner on state pension. It works out to just under £40,000.

Do I pay any income tax on this? How do I minimise the tax on any income I earn from saving or investing this money?

-Sheila, via email

With careful planning money that you get from an inheritance may be spread between investment pots in order to save in a tax-efficient way

Angelique Ruzicka of This is Money says: Fortunately, it looks like you're not subject to paying income tax on your inheritance. There's further good news too.

According to Paul Falvey, tax partner at accountancy and business advisory firm BDO LLP, there should be no UK taxes on these funds, and as Australia does not have inheritance tax, you should receive the £40,000 tax-free.

If you want to invest the money, there are many options open to you.

Mark Stone, financial planning director, Whitechurch Financial Consultants says your investment choice would depend on what you want to do with it, the length of time you want to invest it for and the risk you are prepared to take.

He explains: 'If the timescales are short or you have a low risk profile then the home could be cash based.

'If you are looking longer term of more than five years and have the ability to take on risk and have a reasonable capacity for loss then investment portfolio could be put together to include Isa investments for tax efficiency.'

Falvey cautions about the tax you pay if you invest the money: 'The income the investments generate may be liable to UK tax depending on the level of your other income.

'For example, if your only other income is a UK state pension, there is unlikely to be any tax due on this new investment income.'

With careful planning, though, the money may be spread between investment pots in order to save in a tax-efficient way.

Lucy Brennan, partner in the private wealth group at Saffery Champness explains: 'It is important to consider the various tax allowances available when managing the resulting income from the inheritance monies if invested in tandem with regular earnings.

'For example the Isa allowance means you can save up to £20,000 per year with the resulting income and gains being tax free.

'The dividend allowance on which you can receive dividends tax free each year is £2,000.

'Finally the personal savings allowance is £1,000 for a basic rate tax payer, and £500 for a higher rate taxpayer.'

====== 881 ========

EASYLIFE SHOPPERS SIGNED UP TO A £60-A-YEAR MOTOR CLUB – DESPITE NOT HAVING A CAR

Silvia Beevers, 87, was signed up to a £59.99-a-year Motor Club when she doesn't have a car

From gadgets that promise to help you cook the perfect eggs to a self-cleaning toilet brush, the Easylife catalogue boasts a wide range of cheap solutions to every day household problems.

It is often included as a free supplement in magazines or newspapers and you can buy items online, by phone or post.

But Money Mail has discovered that, after making a payment, shoppers are routinely signed up for expensive memberships they never asked for or wanted.

Many customers say that the first they knew about the membership was when they received a letter stating that if they failed to call and cancel within 14 days, up to £69.99 would be taken from their credit or debit card every year.

One 87-year-old customer was signed up to a £59.99-a-year Motor Club that offers discounts on car maintenance when she doesn't even have a car.

Another 76-year-old shopper says £69.99 was taken from her card without permission after she was bombarded with calls pressuring her into joining its Supercard service, offering High Street store discounts.

Shoppers are adamant they have never agreed to pay for these memberships. It means they have either forgotten to untick a box at some point that gave the firm consent to charge them or are being signed up without their permission.

In the small print of the firm's privacy policy, it says it may 'telephone you offering services like our Motor Club, Rewards Club, Supercard, Health Club and other leisure services that we very carefully select'.

The retailer, based in Camden, North London, then requires customers to tick a box to opt out of hearing about other offers.

Scores of customers have taken to online review websites such as Trustpilot to complain about the firm.

Last month, one user said her 80-year-old mother had been signed up to its £59.99 Motor Club despite being unable to drive. She said: 'It seems they are targeting elderly people and conning them.'

When Silvia Beevers, 87, spotted a £9.99 gizmo that can expand the waistband of trousers, she thought she'd give it go.

But a week after buying the item over the phone, she received a letter claiming she had been signed up for a service called the Easylife Motor Club even though she doesn't own a car or drive.

Unless she cancelled in 14 days, £59.99 would be taken from her account. However, the charge was only mentioned halfway down the second page of terms and conditions.

The retired nurse says she specifically requested for her details not to be shared or used for any reason other than her original purchase.

Silvia, of Hendon, North London, says: 'I have been scammed simply because I ordered a catalogue item.'

Barbara Lee, 76, ordered a extendable sponge to help her clean the bathroom without stretching.

She says she was then asked if she wanted to sign up for its 'Supercard' service, which offers High Street discounts.

As a sweetener, she would get a £10 shopping voucher. Barbara, a former homecare worker, said no, but Easylife kept calling. Finally, she agreed if she could return the voucher without charge.

But after sending it back, Easylife took £69.99 from her credit card, plus a further £2.99 fee for setting up the membership.

When Barbara called to complain the firm denied receiving the voucher or her letter of cancellation. She wrote to its head office but never heard back.

Barbara, who lives with husband Norman, 80, in Croft, Liverpool, says: 'They pestered and pestered, but I never authorised this payment.'

Adam French, of lobby group Which?, says: 'The regulations say you cannot be charged for something you did not actively choose to buy.'

Trading Standards in Camden, where the firm is based, urges anyone who thinks they have been unfairly charged to come forward.

Only after Money Mail intervened did Easylife agree to refund Silvia and Barbara the fees charged for setting up unwanted memberships.

In Barbara's case, M&S Bank also agreed to reverse the £69.99 fee using what are known as chargeback rules — which allow banks to claw back disputed payments.

Easylife denies using pressure tactics or signing up customers for paid-for memberships without their authorisation.

It says it adheres to regulations and has a data protection officer to maintain standards.

A spokesman says: 'Customers are of paramount importance to us and we will always refund fully and cancel a membership if they so desire.'

a.murray@dailymail.co.uk

====== 882 ========

FTSE 100 SHARES THAT RAISED DIVIDENDS EVERY YEAR FOR A DECADE

Companies that pay a regular dividend and increase their share price consistently each year are the ultimate win for investors.

Not only do they provide income, if you reinvest this then your money can benefit from the power of compounding to the absolute maximum.

And a selection of FTSE 100 companies have fulfilled investors' hopes and more over the past decade, with 15 of them having not only raised dividends every year for ten years but also delivered total returns of more than 500 per cent.

Top of the pile is the astonishing performance of Ashtead, with a stunning total return over ten years of 5,399 per cent.

A total of 27 FTSE 100 firms have increased their dividends every year for at least the past 10 years, but only 15 have also handed investors a return of more than 500 per cent

Analysis undertaken by online investment platform AJ Bell has revealed that just 27 firms in the FTSE 100 increased their dividend every year for at least the past 10 years.

Of these, 15 have increased their dividends every year for the past decade and delivered a return in excess of 500 per cent over that timeframe.

Identifying these stocks ahead of time is the trick, and there's no guarantee that those which have performed previously will do so again in the future.

However, it's still interesting to look at which firms have proven winners in the past.

At the top of the list is Ashtead. Based on today's dividend payout and the share price a decade ago, those who bought shares in the industrial equipment rental company 10 years ago, now earn an annual income equal to 71 per cent of their initial investment.

Overall they would have enjoyed a 5,399 per cent return in that time, turning a £1,000 investment into a staggering £53,990.

Online investment platform Hargreaves Lansdown takes second place, boasting a dividend yield of 18 per cent and a 1,512 per cent growth in share price over the period.

Closely behind in third is Croda, the specialty chemicals firm, which has upped its yield to 16 per cent and returned 1,182 per cent.

These calculations run from October 2008, the month when Lehman Brothers famously failed. Since then the average FTSE 100 listed company has returned 146 per cent since 2008 – the peak of the global financial crisis.

THE DIVIDEND HERO SHARES Company 10-year total return (%) Current yield on 2008 share price (%) Ashtead 5,399% 71% Hargreaves Lansdown 1,512% 18% Croda 1,182% 16% InterContinental Hotels 1,000% 16% Halma 815% 8% DCC 758% 12% Prudential 695% 17% Scottish Mortgage 694% 5% Compass 682% 12% Paddy Power Betfair 656% 19% Micro Focus International 641% 31% Intertek 619% 10% Whitbread 610% 13% St. James's Place 595% 22% Bunzl 571% 8% FSTE 100 average 146 - Source: AJ Bell

Russ Mould, investment director at DIY platform AJ Bell, said: 'If someone said you could invest in something that handed you over four times the growth of the market you’d be pretty happy, but you’d be over the moon with one stock that’s delivered 35 times the return of the FTSE 100 over the past 10 years.

'That’s exactly what equipment rental company Ashtead has done, turning a £10,000 investment 10 years ago into £539,900 today.'

The combination of reinvesting a steady level of income and decent capital growth can deliver massive gains for investors.

An investor who split £100,000 evenly between these 15 companies 10 years ago would now be sitting on a pot of well over £1million today in total return terms.

'In addition to that, the annual dividend yield on these stocks today based on the purchase price 10 years ago is a whopping 19 per cent, with Ashtead yielding a staggering 71 per cent,' added Mould.

'This shows the power of investing for the long term, reinvesting dividends and waiting patiently for the magic of compound interest to shine through.'

None of these companies yields anywhere near that much if you buy their shares today. Ashtead, Hargreaves Lansdown and Croda yield 1.74 per cent, 1.67 per cent and 1.66 per cent respectively.

As already stated, past performance is not an indicator of future results, so don't invest in the stocks mentioned expecting history to repeat itself.

It is important to scrutinise every investment proposition before taking the plunge.

====== 883 ========

PROBE INTO VIRGIN MEDIA'S HEFTY EXIT FEES FOR CUSTOMERS WHO MOVE HOUSE MID-CONTRACT IS DROPPED

Ofcom fined Virgin Media £7 million for overcharging almost 82,000 customers who ended their contract early

Virgin Media customers who move house mid-contract will continue to face hefty exit fees.

Last week watchdog Ofcom fined the company £7million for overcharging almost 82,000 customers who ended their contract early.

But a separate investigation into its policy of charging customers exit fees if they move to an area it does not supply has been dropped.

Instead, Virgin agreed to make it clearer on its website and during phone calls that it only provides a service to around half the UK, and customers would be charged for moving outside the network.

It is the only major provider to penalise customers in this way. Earlier this month, Money Mail revealed how Martin Eldridge, a loyal customer of 13 years, was hit with a £240 exit fee when he moved to Dorset, and was forced to cancel his contract early because the firm did not supply his new postcode.

Virgin Media has since reduced exit charges by an average of 30 per cent for anyone leaving early.

It is also offering an unspecified reduction to exit fees for anyone moving inside or outside its network. The firm is appealing Ofcom's fine.

s.partington@dailymail.co.uk

====== 884 ========

SHOULD YOU DO SHARED OWNERSHIP IN LONDON NOW YOU SAVE ON STAMP DUTY?

Kevin and Rani have been together for four years and are expecting their first baby in spring.

They want to buy their first home before the baby arrives, but two-bed flats in their part of South London cost around £400,000.

Even though they've saved a deposit of £15,000, they can't find a mortgage lender willing to lend them the rest.

Kevin writes: 'Our friends have been encouraging us to consider shared ownership properties. They say they're cheaper to buy, and there's no stamp duty to pay. But how does it work?

'Rani and I are struggling to save a bigger deposit, but we want to move before the baby arrives - is it worth going down the shared ownership route?'

TV's Phil Spencer answers a first-time buyer's question on the Shared Ownership scheme

TV Property guru and founder of advice site Move iQ Phil Spencer replies: As first-time buyers, you and Rani are just the sort of people shared ownership is aimed at. It's a cross between buying and renting a home, in which you buy a share of the property - and then rent the part you don't own.

Not only is it more affordable than buying a whole property, but month-by-month it can be cheaper than renting.

Its appeal was given a big boost in the October Budget, when the Chancellor cut stamp duty for first-time buyers purchasing a shared ownership property valued at less than £500,000.

This was an extension of the amnesty awarded to first-time buyers in last year's Budget, when Hammond scrapped stamp duty for first-time buyers on the first £300,000 of their home; they still pay 5 per cent on the remaining amount up to a maximum value of £500,000.

Given that you're looking at flats costing around £400,000, this means a big stamp duty saving for you. Under the old stamp duty rules you would have had to pay £10,000 in tax, but now you'll have to pay half of that.

That saving should easily cover the cost of your lender's mortgage arrangement fee and your conveyancing costs.

You're first-time buyers which is good news too, as shared ownership is targeted at people who don't already own a property. But before you plunge into searching for your dream shared ownership home, you need to check you're definitely eligible.

As you and Rani live in London, your household income must be less than £90,000 a year for you to qualify. Outside the capital, the threshold is that buyers' combined income must be less than £80,000.

Once you have confirmed your suitability, then you can set out home hunting. A number of online resources can help with your search, including the Homes For Londoners property search tool.

You can choose from newly built homes, or existing ones via resale programmes from housing associations. To help you decide where to live, arm yourself with plenty of information about the local area, from schools to crime rates.

Last month's Budget included a stamp duty exemption on shared ownership properties

After you have settled on a property, you'll need to pay a reservation fee (usually around £200), before establishing how big a slice of the property pie you can afford. This will be calculated during a financial assessment, which will determine what share you can purchase and what rent you will be paying on the rest.

As a rule, you can buy between a quarter and three quarters of the total value of the property - with the local housing association owning the rest. Given that you're looking for flats at the £400,000 mark, this puts the proportion you could buy between £100,000 and £300,000.

Your £15,000 deposit should theoretically put a £200,000 mortgage in reach, but you'll need to shop around for the best lender, and then pass their affordability checks.

Fortunately, many of the best-known banks and building societies offer mortgages specially tailored for shared ownership.

The housing association may arrange an interview for you with an independent mortgage adviser who will look at all your outgoings - including the rent you'll pay on the housing association's share of the property - and help you choose a suitable mortgage.

Over time you should be able to purchase additional chunks of the property. This is known as 'staircasing' and how it is done varies from provider to provider.

Some may allow you to buy 10 per cent chunks annually, while others only allow you to staircase a maximum of three times. Either way, you need to plan ahead with your finances if you want to own 100 per cent of your property sooner rather than later.

The good news is that as you buy more slices of your home, your rental payments will reduce, reaching zero when you own the property fully.

All shared ownership properties are leaseholds, so you'll have to pay annual ground rent

As all shared ownership properties are leaseholds, you will be required to pay annual ground rent on your home and possibly a monthly service charge too. Make sure to read the small print regarding these charges, as they may increase in future.

Remember, you will also be responsible for repairing items inside your home. Don't expect the housing association to cover the costs of a broken boiler or a faulty washing machine.

The reduction in stamp duty on shared ownership properties of less than £500,000 is likely to make the scheme significantly more popular. Greater demand from buyers could push up prices, and the scheme may not be around forever.

So if you can make the numbers work and are keen to buy before your baby arrives, don't hang around.

Got a question? Email experts@thisismoney.co.uk with property in the subject line.

====== 885 ========

UK HOUSE PRICES FALL AN AVERAGE OF £5,000 IN THE LAST MONTH

House prices are now lower than they were a year ago for properties being put up for sale, according to new research.

The average asking price of a newly marketed property in the month to mid-November, was 0.2 per cent, or £607, less than at the same point last year, property listing website Rightmove reported.

This is the first year-on-year fall in asking prices since 2011 and the decline in confidence is accelerating, with sellers shaving off £5,200 from asking price expectations in the past month alone.

Asking prices have fallen across all of the UK regions between October and November, but only London and the South East are in negative territory over a year

The lower price tags on homes for sale are giving some house hunters an early Christmas present, but many home movers are being held back by the struggle to sell their existing property.

Rightmove said sellers were setting more realistic prices to attract people hesitant to buy amid Brexit uncertainty.

'New sellers and their agents are reacting to market forces and lowering their pricing aspirations by more and sooner than usual,’ said Miles Shipside, of Rightmove.

All regions saw asking prices fall this month. Yorkshire and the Humber saw the biggest month-on-month fall, at 2.4 per cent, followed by the South East, where prices dropped 2.1 per cent. In London they fell by 1.7 per cent.

Over the past year the biggest decline has been seen in London, however, where average asking prices have fallen £15,000, or 2.4 per cent, to £614,271.

Asking prices are below where they were a year ago on average and further below their summer peak this year

Over five years asking prices are up substantially but the rise has now tailed off, although traditionally the end of the year sees a lull

The chill has spread from the capital to the commuter belt, with asking prices in the South East down 1.2 per cent annually, while in the East of England, which includes Hertfordshire and Essex, prices were almost flat, with a rise of just 0.2 per cent over 12 months.

The West Midlands, although having seen prices decline 1.6 per cent over the last month, has the fastest annual growth at 4.4 per cent.

It is followed by the North East, where prices rose by 3.5 per cent over the last twelve months and declined by just 0.6 per cent monthly.

Average asking price of newly marketed property is 0.2% says Rightmove. (Stock picture)

Shipside said: 'Stretched buyer affordability and the cooling markets in the south and in upper price brackets have combined with the ongoing political uncertainty to change pricing optimism into pricing realism.

‘This is a welcome effort by sellers to minimise the usual pre-Christmas market slowdown.'

Rightmove's table shows how asking prices have changed over the past month and year nationally, with homes at the top of the ladder seeing the biggest declines

The drop in asking prices for more expensive homes is reflected in the London data, which shows inner zones hit harder

'Significant' monthly price falls were recorded in the upper-end of the market, especially in London commuter towns, where prices have risen by over 40 per cent since 2011.

Shipside said: 'Seven years ago price rises started rippling out from the capital into the commuter belt in the South East. That ripple effect has now been reversed, with some of the London market price re-adjustment reverberating out into the commuter belt.

'New sellers of property now coming to market in this region have belatedly lowered their price sights.'

Former hotspot commuter towns like Rickmansworth, in Hertfordshire, Esher, in Surrey, and Gerrards Cross, in Buckinghamshire, are now are now among the biggest annual fallers, with prices down by 7.1 per cent, 6.4 per cent and 6 per cent respectively.

It now takes 61 days on average to get a newly-listed home under offer, according to Rightmove

It currently takes 61 days for newly-listed homes to go under offer, according to Rightmove.

But that period extends to 71 days in London.

Richard Freshwater, director of Cheffins Estate Agents in Cambridge, said he's seen an increase in the number of sellers lowering their prices this year and pins this down to Brexit.

'Motivated sellers need to ensure that their properties have been priced realistically from the outset as increases in stock continue to allow buyers to drive market fluctuations,' he said.

'Those which have been realistically priced and correctly marketed from the off are still seeing large viewing numbers, offers and in some situations, sealed bids.'

The discounting may have temped more buyers though, as sales agreed across the country were up by 1 per cent compared to same period a year ago, according to the report.

'While many thought that the down-to-the-wire Brexit deal uncertainty would hold people back from buying, more buyers have actually jumped in.

'Some buyers see this pre-Christmas price lull as a gift to their negotiations,' Shipside said.

====== 886 ========

BADI LAUNCHES A TINDER-STYLE FLATMATE AND LANDLORD FINDER

An entrepreneur has vowed to shake up the UK lettings and classified market with his flatmate finding service based on the Tinder business model.

Badi, set up by entrepreneur Carlos Pierre, launched in London in August and already has nearly 100,000 users and thousands of listings in the UK.

It's often difficult to find an 'ideal' tenant or housemate to rent a room or home. Besides worrying about whether they will pay the rent, compatibility issues concern landlords too.

Badi: After just a few months, Badi has secured nearly 100,000 users and over 1,000 listings in Britain - pictured, founder Carlos Pierre

Concerns can be as trivial as whether a roommate will like the cat or support the same football team. Or potential roommates could also be rejected for having a different taste in music or food.

Carlos has tapped into this need to find a suitable flatmate by creating a house-sharing app powered by artificial intelligence which matches like-minded people – effectively creating a 'Tinder' website for tenants and landlords.

But the business is also flourishing thanks to high demand for accommodation and soaring rental prices within major cities.

According to Badi, London prices are among the highest in the world with average bedroom in the city costing £718 - 12 per cent higher than Paris and 40 per cent higher than Barcelona.

The business model has piqued interest from investors and so far, millions of pounds has been pumped into it.

Badi recently received a round of Series A funding of $10million (£7.7 million) led by US-based venture capital Spark Capital to help the business launch across London, Paris and Rome, as well as expanding across Spain.

Pierre said: 'London is the first UK city for us to launch into, and every day we're gathering data and insight on how Londoners are using Badi.

'We are looking at a number of different target cities in the UK and across Europe, and we will be using that consumer insight and feedback to help finalise where to target next.

'We have big plans in the UK, with plans to launch into further cities in the next year, to support our mission to become the number one app for finding new housemates and homes.'

The business was founded in Spain in September 2015 and inspired from Pierre's difficulties in trying to find the right apartment in Barcelona when he was working for PricewaterhouseCoopers.

In spite of its large user base, the app is currently free for everyone and there are no fees or commissions

Pierre said: 'I looked for something to rent but it was impossible as there is a lot of demand in Barcelona just like in a lot of cities worldwide.

'My goal was to flatshare and realised the supply was managed by classified with a poor user experience.

'I saw a girl in New York had the same problem and used Tinder to put her room on it and she found a roommate in less than three days.

'Tinder is useful because you can accept or reject easily.

'So that's where the idea came from. We had foreign investment rounds and now it's the number one platform in Spain and we're now expanding to Europe.'

Pierre explains the word 'Badi' was derived from the word 'buddy'.

'I always liked short names and names that are not so descript. The name came from the word "buddy" and then changed it to 'Badi'.'

He admits the business is looking for further funding but is keeping the details close to his chest.

He did, however, give his reasons for needing the extra financial boost. 'The funding is for three things.

'We are hiring senior talent and want the best in Europe. We want to become the best in this space and to offer the best user experience and thirdly it's about expansion.'

Why it's free...

In spite of its large user base, the app is currently free for everyone and there are no fees or commissions.

Meanwhile others such as Easyroommate and Spareroom either charge users a fee to make use of further features within their websites/apps or to have adverts prioritised over others.

Badi has a partnership with Stripe to process deposits but this service is free too.

Pierre explains: 'At the moment we are in early stage of the business and hit the three year mark and strong investors behind us that believe in our vision in making flat-sharing easily accessible.

'Our aim is to grow and make Badi the default option when looking for a flat.

'So we don't want to charge a fee by creating barriers as we know users have options. But we will in the future make value added services.

'We want to change the whole process of emailing and calling hundreds of people the find the right flat. So it's first making sure that the user experience is right. When you are bigger than competitors then it will be easier to monetise.'

Love at first deposit: Badi will not only find you a flatmate but helps you in your quest to find one that you get along with

Combating fraud

These days it's easy for criminals to fake profiles and open bank accounts so they can make off with victims' money.

But Pierre says that his company is working hard to make Badi secure for tenants and landlords alike and has built a moderation tool to detect fraud.

He explained: 'We monitor the users on our platform and make sure that scammers are taken care of immediately.

'We have a team that monitors fraud at all times and algorithms that can detect when a listing is fraudulent and over time it will become more accurate.

'If you suspect fraud you can report the user. We have a strict rule that if a user has been reported more than once they will be banned from the system.

'We also educate our users on everything they should be doing on our platform to ensure safety.

'Over time with the Series B funding we will have more focus on trust and product related features.'

====== 887 ========

DVLA TO MAKE £16.2M THIS YEAR SELLING DETAILS TO PARKING FIRMS

The Driver and Vehicle Licencing Agency is set to rake in a staggering £16.2 million from selling motorists' details to private parking firms for £2.50 each, it has been calculated as part of a new study.

Motoring magazine Auto Express said the government agency will sell around 6.4 million drivers' information by the end of the financial year.

This is Money has been fighting the corner of motorists with our 'Stop the private parking sharks' campaign, calling for the DVLA to stop selling personal details to private firms, particularly in light of new GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) rules now in place.

Money made from motorists: The DVLA is set to rake in around £16.2m this financial year by selling drivers' details to private parking enforcement firms

DVLA figures provided to Auto Express showed that the agency is set to make £2 million more from selling motorists' records to private parking enforcers, up from £14.2 million in 2016/17 and £9.2 million the year previous.

It said that 3.2 million drivers' information was handed to private firms in the first six months of this financial year - almost 20 per cent more than in the same period the year before and almost twice the number requested in 2015/16.

One parking firm - ParkingEye, which was recently sold by Capita for £235 million - has already paid a staggering £1.3 million for over 500,000 motorists' details in the second quarter of this financial year.

Private parking enforcement using automatic number plate recognition cameras has mushroomed across the UK in recent years.

Stations, supermarkets, shopping centres, pubs, restaurants, hotels and more have joined private car parks in setting up cameras to catch drivers.

This latest study sited previous analysis by the RAC Foundation from 2007/08, which found that around half a million drivers' records were requested from the DVLA by private parking firms that year.

That means the DVLA is currently issuing 15 times the number of motorists' information to private enforcement companies than it did a decade ago.

Stations, supermarkets, shopping centres, pubs, restaurants, hotels and more have joined private car parks in setting up cameras to catch drivers

Motorists are now having to deal with this by keeping their eyes peeled for signs erected in car parks that state that they're entering into a contract with the land owner and any minor infringement, however suspect, sees a ticket automatically sent out.

The parking sharks are located across the land, targetting people in almost every car park and the plague has worsened in recent years, as parking firms armed with cheap Big Brother ANPR cameras have convinced landowners to cash in.

While This is Money is arguing that the DVLA's actions go against the GDPR restrictions in place, it's the cost of mental anguish for drivers and damage to the High Street that is causing as much concern.

With these concerns in mind, we are also calling on the independent appeal process to be made fairer.

In typical circumstances, private parking firms dish out the 'penalty' and pressurise payment within 14 days.

This is Money has received hundreds of cases of motorists who have been fleeced by private parking firms for fines they shouldn't have received

There has been an increasing trend for land owners to use ANPR camera in their car parks to enforce restrictions

If drivers don't pay up straight away, or dare to appeal, the notice often threatens a higher charge - including via the official appeal process - and the threat of court action.

Many simply pay out of fear.

We want the appeal process to freeze the original charge while it is investigated, meaning more drivers are likely to take their case to the independent body rather than worry about a bigger charge.

We're asking the DVLA to investigate if dozens come in at a time for the same spot to determine whether or not parking enforcers are being fair with the nation's drivers.

We support This is Money's hard hitting campaign to bring common sense and fairness to private parking enforcement Edmund King, AA president

The campaign has already received backing from motoring organisations.

AA president Edmund King said: 'We support This is Money's hard hitting campaign to bring common sense and fairness to private parking enforcement.

'We had hoped that our actions in getting the cowboy clampers outlawed would have improved the situation for drivers but it seems that some of the unscrupulous highwaymen have now turned their hand to dishing out tickets on parking land.

'The sad thing is that many drivers are so worried about bailiffs or higher charges that they just pay up.

'We have raised some of these issues in our Caught in a Trap report with the Transport Secretary and hope the This is Money campaign can help to bring about change.'

How private parking firms make money Research by the RAC Foundation last year found that 19,000 motorists a day had their personal details bought by private parking firms. This works out at 570,000 people over the course of a 30-day month. Certain private parking companies can buy your personal details from the DVLA at a cost of £2.50 per motorist. This means that these firms only need to claw back a £60 charge from one in every 24 drivers to break even on the cost of buying your details.

In a letter sent to Chris Grayling, the AA has called for government intervention to restore the principle of deterrence in the enforcement of parking and moving traffic offences – instead of the harvesting of charges at every opportunity.

The AA said it aimed to 'fight back against rampant ticketing by council and private parking enforcers, to ensure that first-time offenders in bus lanes and yellow box junctions get a warning letter instead of a fine, and residents are no longer taxed for parking outside their homes.'

It was revealed at the weekend that new regulations could be put in place to regulate private parking firms and protect motorists from rogue companies who use parking law loopholes to profit.

The new code of practice is being written by the DVLA and is expected to include a 10 minute grace period for motorists who stay in a car park for longer than the period stated by the clear signage at the entrance.

There could also be a £100 cap on fines for drivers and consistent enforcement to prevent returning drivers from being charged when they use the same parking facilities hours or days later.

However, while these proposals would rein in some of the excesses of the private parking firms, the big rise in tickets is unlikely to be reversed unless the DVLA stops selling personal information to firms.

====== 888 ========

AROUND 16 MILLION UK MOTORISTS SAY THEY CAN'T AFFORD TO BUY AN ELECTRIC CAR

The Government's recent decision to slash grants for the purchase of electric cars and remove them altogether for plug-in hybrids will slow UK motorists' transition to ultra-low emissions vehicles, a new report has warned.

Around 16million drivers can't afford an electric car, which have become £1,000 more expensive to purchase new since October 21 when the Department for Transport fast-tracked reduced rates the grant scheme to help Britons buy them, a survey shows.

It means those drivers who do want to make the switch to plug-in power will instead have to delve into the used market rather than owning the latest models with the longer ranges.

Too pricey: A new survey found that more than two in five UK motorists can't afford electric cars, even before the government slashed the financial incentives to buy them

The poll of more than 2,000 motorists found that 44 per cent (the equivalent of 16million licenced drivers) claimed they wouldn't have the necessary funds to purchase the latest electric cars.

The survey, carried out by Comparethemarket, is the latest in a series of studies to asses consumer opinion towards ultra-low emissions vehicles.

The comparison website found that two thirds of the panel do not want one as their next vehicle, even despite the Government's pledge to ban the sale of new petrol and diesel cars by 2040 and a parliamentary select committee demanded in October for it to be accelerated by eight years to 2032.

When asked what with fuel the next model they buy, 43 per cent of the respondents said they would opt for a petrol-powered vehicle.

Demand for diesel cars - which have been hammered by additional taxes, surcharges for parking and entry to some regions and potential bans from city centres across Europe - has plummeted, with just 17 per cent of the drivers quizzed saying they would buy one next.

That means hybrid is likely to be the second most popular choice for motorists heading to showrooms in the near future, with a quarter saying they want the combination of electric and combustion power.

Just eight per cent said they would choose a battery electric model - one that entirely relies on electric power - next.

More than half of drivers surveyed said they a lack of infrastructure and range anxiety remained high on their list of concerns about electric vehicles

While many of the same concerns about owning pure electric cars remain - including a lack of infrastructure and range anxiety (a major concern for more than of respondents) - it's cost that's becoming an increasing hurdle.

Take the Nissan Leaf, for example.

It's considered one of the more affordable electric models, but still has a price tag of £26,190.

Of the 2,000 or so drivers polled, just four per cent said they'd be willing to spend over £25,000 on a new car.

The Nissan Leaf is considered one of the more affordable family-sized electric cars but is more expensive than what 96% of motorists surveyed are willing to pay for a new vehicle

Motorists were also frustrated by the few tax rebates and other incentives in place for electric car drivers to help encourage motorists to go green.

Electric car insurance cost is another factor for motorists Almost one in ten motorists polled by the comparison site said they were worried that insurance costs for electric vehicles could be high. Dan Hudson from comparethemarket said: 'As with petrol and diesel cars, the size, power and cost of an electric vehicle will also have an effect on your premium, so buyers should do their research if they are looking to switch to an electric car. 'For example, a Nissan Leaf – the most often quoted electric vehicle on our site – would, on average, cost just over £500 to insure as it is relatively small, low power and cost effective, but a Tesla Model-S would, on average, cost over £1,000 to insure owing to its size, power and high value.' According to the website's premiums data, the average electric car costs £632 to insure.

While Vehicle and Excise Duty remains free (unless the car costs more than £40,000, which then makes it £320 to tax at the standard rate for five years - read more here) and there reductions for company car tax, the reduction of rates available through the Plug-in Vehicle Grant raise the bar.

Under the new rules, electric car grants have fallen by £1,000 from £4,500 to £3,500 and the £2,500 grant for plug-in hybrids has been abolished.

The lower rates were due to be introduced on November 9 but were quickly fast-tracked to October 21 because the number of applications for grants increased by 543 per cent shortly after the cuts were announced earlier last month.

However, the survey revealed that many Britons were unaware that the government would put its hands in its pocket to help them buy a new electric car.

Nearly three quarters of UK drivers (72 per cent) did not know about government subsidies and 81 per cent were unaware that the rates have been changed from the end of October.

It means any driver tempted by the idea of switching to an ultra-low emissions vehicle will instead have to buy from the second-hand market.

This leaves motorists with a risk of owning a vehicle that might have a battery that's been repeatedly charged and could have depleted capacity, but also restricts them to older models that can't match the ranges of the latest electric vehicles on sale.

The Government fast-tracked reduced rates for the Plug-in Car Grant after receiving an exceptional number of grant requests from buyers who wanted to take advantage of the larger savings that have been in place since December 2015

Second hand electric cars are, on average, quite a bit more expensive than the rest of the market.

The average price of a used electric car for sale on Auto Trader is £19,578, which is £6,500 more than market as whole.

We've teamed up with AA Cars to suggest which used electric cars are worth considering based on price and range.

These are the average used car prices by fuel type on Auto Trader Average used electric car: £19,578 Average used car: £12,956 Average used diesel car: £14,661 Average used petrol car: £11,161 Average used hybrid car: (incl. diesel and petrol hybrids) £17,671 Average used plug-in hybrid: £29,523

Dan Hutson, head of motor insurance at Comparethemarket said it was up to the Government to 'make up its mind' as to whether it fully supports electric cars or not.

'On the one hand, MPs are eager to accelerate transformation of the UK into an electric car nation, and on the other it is cutting the subsidies which would make these cars more affordable,' he said.

'Our research shows that 61 per cent of people think the government should be doing more to encourage the use of electric cars.

'The desire to go green is there, but the upfront costs as well as range anxiety and an inadequate number of charging points across the country, make that an impossibility for many.'

====== 889 ========

PETITION TO STOP DEBENHAMS CAR INSURANCE PROVIDED BY ARRON BANKS' FIRM ELDON

Debenhams is being petitioned to stop car insurance provided by controversial Brexit backer Arron Banks' firm Eldon, after the broker was found to have 'seriously breached' rules governing customer data.

Earlier this month, an investigation found that Eldon, which brokers Debenhams' car insurance, and Banks' campaign group Leave.EU, had broken rules after more than 300,000 emails were sent to Eldon customers containing a Leave.EU newsletter.

After issuing a series of fines the Information Commissioner's Office is now investigating whether the personal data of Eldon's insurance customers was illegally shared with Leave.EU, which if true would be in breach of the Data Protection Act.

But Debenhams says it has 'no reports' of its car insurance customers' data being misused by Eldon.

Arron Banks' insurance company Eldon is facing a £60,000 ICO fine for alleged data misuse

For four years, the famous British retailer has had a deal with Eldon which sees the firm provide car insurance to Debenhams customers through a panel of insurers including Banks' other firm Southern Rock, according to Insurance Post Magazine.

Following the ICO investigation, Eldon is now set to receive a £60,000 fine for misuse of its customers' data.

Overall, Eldon Insurance and Leave.EU could be handed fines totalling £135,000 for breaching electronic marketing rules in the Brexit campaign.

Included in the alleged offences is that Leave.EU sent over a million emails containing marketing details for Banks' insurance firm GoSkippy, a trading name of Eldon.

Eldon is now being audited by the ICO to see if it shared customer data obtained for insurance purposes with Leave.EU.

Debenhams said it had 'no reports' of its customer data being used improperly by Eldon, but did not comment when asked if it had conducted any internal investigations into the matter, and did not comment on how the ICO's report may affect the two firms' commercial relationship going forward.

A spokeswoman for Debenhams said: 'All Debenhams suppliers must agree to a strict code of business ethics along with adhering to legislation.

'We have no reports of customer data being used improperly by our insurance providers, Eldon.'

A petition has been set up urging Debenhams to end its business links with the firm.

Self-styled bad boy of Brexit, Banks is also being investigated by the National Crime Agency over his £8million donation to the Leave EU campaign, as well as fighting the Government over a £163,000 tax bill on the £1million he gave to Ukip in 2014.

Debenhams said it has 'no reports' of its car insurance customers' data being misused by Eldon

In April this year Brittany Kaiser, former director at scandal-hit consultancy firm Cambridge Analytica, alleged in written evidence to the Government’s Fake News Inquiry that the personal data of GoSkippy and Eldon Insurance customers was being used by Banks’ Leave.EU campaign.

‘Cambridge Analytica was initially engaged with Arron Banks, [spokesman] Andy Wigmore and [Ukip party secretary] Matthew Richardson to design parallel proposals for Leave.EU, GoSkippy/Eldon Insurance and the UK Independence Party,’ she alleged.

‘Arron Banks said, “It’s my data” – it seemed natural that he would use it across his initiatives… If the personal data of UK citizens who just wanted to buy car insurance was used by GoSkippy and Eldon Insurance for political purposes, as may have been the case, people clearly did not opt in for their data to be used in this way by Leave.EU.'

A spokesman for Eldon Insurance told This is Money: 'We disagree with the preliminary findings of the ICO, and can confirm that the process is not yet complete and as yet no fines have been issued.

'We will look to make our representations on the matter to the ICO and will follow up any findings which we dispute in court.

'The Notice of Intent issued by the ICO to Eldon did not relate to a data protection breach or misuse of customer data held by Eldon.

'It related solely to e-mails sent by Leave.EU to their subscribers, who had consented to receiving those e-mails, which carried Eldon advertising banners.

'The ICO preliminary findings were based on the fact that the consents to receive e-mails, given by Leave.EU subscribers, did not explicitly cover marketing material from Eldon.'

When approached for comment the ICO said it didn't have anything further to add at this stage than what is in its existing report.

In October last year Banks revealed that he planned to float Eldon in 2018, but this has yet to materialise.

====== 890 ========

WHY IS MUMS' STATE PENSION DOCKED UNLESS THEY CLAIM CHILD BENEFIT?

This is Money is campaigning on behalf of parents who end up with a smaller state pension because of mistakes over child benefit forms.

Here, ex-Pensions Minister Ros Altmann voices support for our call to the Government to fully backdate the years that mums and dads - but mostly mums - have lost from their National Insurance records.

Ros Altmann: 'Failing to claim a benefit for children, which you know you won't receive, means the National Insurance system docks your pension'

The state pension age for women and men has just been equalised, but although there is equality of pension age, there remains significant gender inequality in the amount - women, on average, receive less state pension than men.

In fact, women can lose out in many ways in our National Insurance system, due to complicated rules which they are usually unaware of.

The most recent problem relates to child benefit. Tens of thousands of women are at risk of losing future state pension rights because of a little-known loophole in the child benefit rules introduced in January 2013.

Yes, I know it seems odd that child benefit affects your state pension, but that's how our National Insurance system rules are designed. I am delighted to see This is Money campaign to stop this injustice.

Child benefit used to be paid to all parents, regardless of their income. However, for the past few years, it has been means-tested.

If you stay at home to look after children under 12 and your partner earns more than £60,000 a year, you are not entitled to child benefit. If your partner earns between £50,000 and £60,000 you get a reduced rate, but after £60,000 you lose the benefit altogether.

However, many do not know that they lose out on state pension, unless they actually claim the child benefit which they know they are not entitled to! Quite frankly, this is rather ridiculous.

Failing to claim a benefit for children, which you know you won't receive, means the National Insurance system docks your pension.

Have you lost state pension by not signing up for child benefits or filling form in wrong? If this has happened to you, contact tanya.jefferies@thisismoney.co.uk and tell us your story.

This strange anomaly clearly penalises women and many may have already lost nearly six years' worth of state pension entitlement on their National Insurance record.

Their number of missing years will keep on rising, until they realise and even if they belatedly sign up for child benefit, they cannot backdate the years they have missed unless the Government relents over the rules.

This matters. Women cannot now claim on a husband or partner's National Insurance record either, so it is vital that they have their own entitlement protected.

In order to qualify for the full new state pension (£164-35 a week this year), you currently need a record of at least 35 years. If your record is not complete, you cannot get the full pension.

The minimum number of qualifying years may increase in future, so ensuring your record is as complete as possible is really important.

If you are a mother staying at home looking after your children (or you only work part-time without earning enough to qualify for National Insurance) you could lose all those years' worth of state pension entitlement.

And you can never get them back again. You can only backdate a claim by three months, so even if you discover your state pension record has been damaged, you cannot recover the lost years.

It is perhaps understandable, in private pensions, that women's caring responsibilities, career paths and lower lifetime earnings will typically give them less pension than men. However, there is no excuse for disadvantaging women in the state pension too.

Changes to National Insurance pensions over the years were supposed to ensure equality, so women would not suffer loss of state pension when taking time off to look after young children.

At the moment, due to the unfair rules of our National Insurance system, this is not always the case.

It cannot be right to disadvantage women in this way. The Government should allow full backdating so all those ineligible for child benefit are still credited for National Insurance state pension.

If it does not, the problem will get worse, as parents who have already unwittingly lost six years of state pension credits could see that rise much further. Is the Government going to wait until people have a 10-year hole in their state pension, or an even bigger one, before it sorts this out?

It is important to tackle these injustices which risk compounding pension inequalities faced by women. We have made big strides in some areas of gender equality, but not yet in pensions.

I do hope This is Money's campaign will be successful in persuading the Treasury to ensure that women's state pension rights are not damaged in this way in future.

====== 891 ========

BEST SAVINGS RATES: GENERAL SAVINGS - INTERNET AND BRANCH

> Compare peer-to-peer lending: Check top rates on offer to investors

> Top DIY investing platforms: Best and cheapest places to invest

* Note: From April 2018, tax conversions will apply only to taxpayers living in England, Wales and Northern Ireland. Scottish taxpayers are subject to different income tax rates after this date.

Dear Reader,

These tables are unique on the web. They are independent and providers are not forced to pay to appear, which is typically the case at big comparison sites.

Independent savings expert: Sylvia Morris

They are completely unbiased - we simply show the best rates around and don't do 'featured deals'.

We've gone a step further, too. To feature in the best buys on variable rate accounts in our savings tables, an account must give you easy access to your money and come with no hidden catches.

In the past we have refused to include accounts where the rate is boosted by a short-term bonus or those with over-restrictive conditions so you only earn the advertised rate if you make three or less withdrawals a year.

But with interest rates so low, most of today's best deals have some sort of clause built in, whether that's a bonus or a restriction on withdrawals.

For that reason, we've included decent bonuses as long as they last for at least 12 months. This is to avoid you having to switch your account too often when short-term bonuses run out.

If there is a restriction on withdrawals we have made this clear in the notes on each account.

We also ignore old-style 'notice' accounts where the bank or building society can demand you give up to six months' notice that you want to take our money out while it can change the rate at any time without warning.

All banks and building societies are registered with the Financial Conduct Authority and signed up to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme, either directly (protecting up to £85,000) or via its passport scheme (where the compensation limit depends on the bank's home country. In Europe it is €100,000).

If you have a question about the tables email sy.morris@dailymail.co.uk and editor@thisismoney.co.uk

Sylvia Morris

This is Money savings tables expert





====== 892 ========

BEST BUYS: THIS IS MONEY'S PICK OF THE TOP FINANCIAL DEALS

This week our roundup of the best financial deals includes an exclusive offer for This is Money readers in partnership with Farewill - free online will writing worth £90.

This week's top deals also include two new market-beating cash Isas and the best reward card bonus to make the most of Christmas spending.

Plus we have picked out one of few Black Friday deals worth taking notice of - a broadband deal effectively costing less than £13 per month.

Save money, make money: This is Money has selected best buy deals that deserve your attention this week

Virgin Atlantic Rewards+ credit card - Free flight to New York



Virgin Atlantic's Rewards+ credit card is one of our top picks for the second week running because of its bumper sign-up bonus.

You can get up to 25,000 Flying Club miles if you spend £1,500 in the first three months - fairly achievable for most families over the festive period.

All spends on the card earn 1 mile per £1. The card carries an annual fee of £160 and interest of 22.9 per cent - but it's one of the top deals, and worth the fee if you are a big spender.

Farewill - Free online will writing for This is Money readers

Writing a will is a job we all put off, but it’s essential for our loved ones if the worst happens.

We have teamed up with Farewill, a leading online will-writing service to offer This is Money readers a free online will, saving £90. Claim your discount by using code timfree at the checkout before 31 December.

Aldermore Bank - Top fixed-rate cash Isa

Over the past week cash Isa competition has picked up pace with FOUR new best-buy deals launched.

One of the best is Aldermore's three-year offering paying a top rate of 1.95 per cent (1.94 per cent monthly). You can open and manage an account online, and the minimum balance is £1,000.

Plusnet - Top broadband deal

One of the few Black Friday deals worth taking notice of is Plusnet's new broadband deal.

It's offering £75 cashback if you sign up to its 10Mbps broadband deal this week. You will pay £18.99 per month for 12 months, but the cashback effectively cuts the cost to just £12.74. We also like that Plusnet pledges no sneaky mid-contract price hikes and will remind you at the end of your contract to avoid rising bills.

Charter Savings Bank - best-buy easy access cash Isa

The new easy access cash Isa from Charter Savings Bank pays a top rate of 1.4 per cent - the top rate since 2016. The challenger is also one of few banks to offer a mix and match Isa.

This means you can open both easy access and fixed-rate offerings under the same year's tax-free allowance. You can open the Isa online with a £1,000 minimum deposit and it allows transfers in.

Some links in this article are affiliate links. If you click on the link we may earn a small commission. That helps us fund This Is Money, and keeps it free to use. We do not write articles to promote products. We do not allow any commercial relationship to affect our editorial independence.

====== 893 ========

WHEN WILL UK INTEREST RATES RISE?

Interest rates were held at 0.75 per cent again when the Bank of England met at the start of November, with inflation tipped to gradually fall back to 2 per cent over three years and rates to slowly rise.

A first move up is seen as coming in the middle of 2019, however, it warned that its forecasts are based on a 'smooth transition' for Brexit.

If that doesn't happen bets are off and rates could be cut again - or even have to rise.

The Bank of England's November report mapped out the expected path for rates and the economy

November's rate decision came alongside a quarterly Inflation Report, which looks ahead at the prospects for the economy and the expected path of interest rates needed to keep the rise in the cost of living to the 2 per cent target.

The report said: 'The economic outlook will depend significantly on the nature of EU withdrawal, in particular the form of new trading arrangements, the smoothness of the transition to them and the responses of households, businesses and financial markets.

'The implications for the appropriate path of monetary policy will depend on the balance of the effects on demand, supply and the exchange rate.

'The MPC judges that the monetary policy response to Brexit, whatever form it takes, will not be automatic and could be in either direction.'

Rate expectations have shifted forward since the summer, despite no-deal Brexit worries

Laith Khalaf, senior analyst at broker Hargreaves Lansdown, said: 'A fragile UK economy, softening global demand, and the looming shadow of Brexit leaves little scope for the central bank to do anything more than sit on its hands for the time being.

'Markets are now pricing in a rate rise in the middle of next year, though between now and then we should get greater clarity on the size and shape of Brexit, which makes monetary policy in the next twelve months unpredictable.

'It's worthy of note that the Bank of England says its response to Brexit could be to shift policy in either direction.

'So it could cut rates if it sees a disorderly Brexit damaging economic growth, though it might be forced to hike rates if there's a run on the pound.

He added: 'The range of possible permutations serves as a reminder of the difficulty of predicting the financial effects of something as dynamic and complex as Brexit.

'Even if you guess the right political outcome, asset prices may not move in the way you expect.'

Was that a good Budget and should Hammond have cut taxes? The before Brexit Budget is done. Money for the NHS, little extras for schools, cash for roads, help for the High Street and the baby rabbit in the hat - a rise in the basic and higher rate tax thresholds to £12,500 and £50,000, respectively, a year early. Is austerity really coming to an end? And are the rich getting richer thanks to the Government? In the This is Money podcast, Simon Lambert, Lee Boyce and Georgie Frost analyse the 2018 Budget. Press play above or listen (and please subscribe if you like the podcast) at Apple Podcasts, Acast, Spotify and Audioboom or visit our This is Money Podcast page.

The August rate rise

Why does the Bank adjust interest rates? The Monetary Policy Committee's chief remit is to target inflation of 2 per cent, with interest rate rises used as a brake on the economy. Moving the base rate up feeds through to banks' pricing of loans to customers. By raising the cost of borrowing, an interest rate rise reduces demand and leads to banks creating less money when they issue loans. A lower level of money creation is seen as reducing inflationary pressures from wage rises and spending. With unemployment at record lows and slack in the economy dissipating, economists suggest inflation may overshoot without a rate rise. There is also an argument that the Bank should raise rates now while the going is good, to give itself wriggle room when a recession hits in future.

Interest rates finally rose above 0.5 per cent almost a decade after the emergency cut to that level, in August.

The Bank of England's MPC voted to raise rates to 0.75 per cent, casting aside worries over the consumer economy and a no-deal Brexit, as it said that low unemployment and reduced slack merited a hike to keep inflation on target.

The 9-0 vote was accompanied by a quarterly Inflation Report, which showed that despite today's hike the market outlook was for rates to go up more slowly over the next three years than previously expected.

No further move is expected until at least the middle of next year.

An indication of the Bank's confidence in the UK economy came with a statement on quantitative easing in the inflation report. It had previously suggested that its stock of UK government bonds purchased through this would not be unwound until rates hit 2 per cent, whereas now it said it expected to do this when interest rates hit 1.5 per cent.

That, however, remains a long way off with the Bank's expected path for rates showing base rate would not reach 1.5 per cent until 2021.

The November 2017 rate rise

The Bank of England finally raised interest rates in November 2017, more than a decade after the last upward move.

The rise to 0.5 per cent came as the Bank sought to dampen inflation, but is controversial as it could slow the economy.

The Inflation Report on the same day mapped out an expected path that with rates at 0.7 per cent at the end of next year, 1 per cent in 2019 and then sticking there through 2020.

The interest rate rise was widely expected and the Bank of England did little to dispel the belief that rates would go up. In fact, had rates not gone up, the bank would have lost credibility in many quarters.

HOW DO YOU FORECAST FUTURE INTEREST RATE RISES? We can't - no one can. But we look at overnight swap rates to work out roughly when money markets forecast the Bank Rate will start to rise from the rock-bottom level of 0.5 per cent. This is very far from a precise business - not only do financial traders make wrong predictions all the time, but swap rates are only a snapshot of their views at a given moment in time. The overnight swap rates move substantially. Take a look at the following chart, which appeared in the May 2013 Bank of England inflation report and illustrates interest rate projections in May compared with February. There is almost a two year gap between the outlook just a few months apart. Please note this chart is used to illustrate market movements and is not the up-to-date outlook for rates.

Like the Bank of England, we use the overnight index swaps curve to look at what the money markets are predicting for interest rates, and importantly how this is shifting. Economists also make predictions of when rates will go up, which are often quite different from those signalled by the money markets. We frequently quote their views here too if they help shed light on the issue for readers. You can then consider all the available information and make your own best guess on when interest rates will rise.

Swap rates and money markets vs mortgages and savings

When markets move a decent amount - and the move holds - it can affect the pricing of some mortgages and savings accounts.

When swaps price a rate rise to come sooner, fixed rate savings bonds tend to marginally improve in the weeks that follow. But it also puts pressure on lenders to withdraw the best fixed mortgages.

As for using swaps as a forecast, we've consistently warned on this round-up that they are extremely volatile and should be treated with caution - they should be used more as a guide of swinging sentiment rather than an actual prediction.

> Read the Council of Mortgage Lenders' guide to swap rates

Important note: Markets, economists and other experts haven't had a great record of making the right calls in recent years.

This is Money has always advocated caution with any sort of prediction (including our own!). There's no guarantee that those who have made correct calls in the past will make them in the future.

We'd also urge consumers not to gamble with their personal finances when it comes to predicting rate swings.

What decides rates?

The BoE's Monetary Policy Committee meets once a month and sets the bank rate. Its government-set task is to keep inflation to a 2% target (and nowadays also maintain financial stability). So if inflation looks likely to pick up, it raises rates.

====== 894 ========

COMPARE THE BEST MONEY TRANSFER EXCHANGE RATES IN THREE EASY STEPS

From holiday money to business fx rates, make sure you always find the best exchange rate.

How FXcompared can help you choose the best foreign exchange provider

FXcompared is an independent comparison site for international money transfer that offers a choice of carefully selected, low-cost ways to send money abroad.

It's ideal for people buying a home abroad, for specialist business currency exchange services or just a really nice holiday.

HOW CURRENCY EXCHANGE WORKS 1. Choose the countries you're sending money from and to 2. Choose an amount and hit 'compare now' 3. Check the results and select a provider - there is no obligation

Transferring currency will take two days - or maybe three to some of the more exotic countries.

Once you checked the exchange rates and compared any transfer fees, you're under no obligation to trade until you register with a broker and decide to go ahead.

All the brokers offer 24hr online access so you can track your transfer. Some also offer a phone service.

As with the banks, money transfer providers have a legal obligation to verify your identity before your money can be transferred.

Typically you will be asked for a copy of your passport, ID card or driving licence. You'll also need to verify your address by uploading a copy of a utility bill.

The providers listed are regulated by the relevant financial bodies in the countries or regions they operate. For example, the FCA in the UK, FinCEN in the US, and ASIC in Australia.

FXcompared is owned by FX Compared Limited, a private UK company based in London.

====== 895 ========

RUFFER MADE 23% WHEN SHARES CRASHED IN 2008, SO WHERE IS IT INVESTING NOW?

You will have heard the line about keeping your head when others are losing theirs, but do you know about the investment trust that made 23 per cent when shares crashed 30 per cent during the financial crisis?

Ruffer investment company is one of the funds that tries to emulate the famous opening line of Rudyard Kipling’s poem If.

It’s aim is ‘consistent positive returns, regardless of how the financial markets perform’, which in practical terms it says means, ‘we try not to lose money in any 12 month period, and to grow the value of our investors’ wealth over the long haul.’

So how does Ruffer do that? What were the investments that meant it outperformed the UK stock market by 50 per cent in 2008? And could it pull that trick off again?

Ruffer’s co-manager Duncan MacInnes joins Simon Lambert and Richard Hunter on the Investing Show to explain where the investment trust is invested now and how it positions itself to protect investors when a stock market storm becomes a hurricane.

This defensive position means that when markets are rising, Ruffer will tend to lag behind but when things turn bad it should be better placed to weather the storm.

Its aim is not to match stock market performance but to deliver long-term inflation-beating returns in a less volatile manner.

Over the past three years things have been tough, with just an average 3.4 per cent annual return, but taken over the longer-term it has delivered average annual gains of 7.2 per cent over ten years.

Duncan tells us why what is important is not which correction it is that eventually turns into a big drop, but knowing that one eventually will - and being prepared for that.

He also talks us through where Ruffer sees opportunities, and why these like Japan and gold miners usually lie in what people would term value investments.

However, one of the trust’s top holdings is also Ocado – and he explains why the Ruffer managers believe despite its relatively high price it could still be undervalued.

Weathering the storm in 2008 and profiting in 2009 set Ruffer up to outperform the FTSE All Share over the past 15 years, but could it pull that trick off again?

Was the stock market sell-off overdone?

Investors suffered in October with the FTSE All Share among the global markets driven down, but was the sell-off overdone and are people too pessimistic on the prospects for UK shares?

In this part of the Investing Show, Simon Lambert, of This is Money, Richard Hunter, of Interactive Investor, and Nick Batsford, of Core London, take a look.

====== 896 ========

THE SHARES HIT THE HARDEST IN THE STOCK MARKET SLUMP: INVESTING SHOW

Stock markets around the world have taken a tumble, with the FTSE 100 falling into correction territory.

But while the leading London index fell 10 per cent from its peak, some popular shares dropped by much more.

On this latest episode of the Investing Show we look at the companies that fell the most in the month leading up to this week, both in the FTSE 100 and on the AIM market.

Big names have been hurt by warnings on profits and individual disappointments, including Royal Mail, Thomas Cook and Superdry, but even firms that had been doing well have slipped – such as Hargreaves Lansdown and easyJet.

The real pain in many people’s portfolios will have been felt in some former stock market stars listed on AIM, however. Here Fevertree and Burford Capital have suffered big falls after gaining astonishing amounts in recent years.

Simon Lambert, Richard Hunter and Nick Batsford take a look at whether it is time to worry or bargain hunter - and at what's gone up as the market went down.

On the show we discuss the biggest fallers (and FTSE All Share risers) at the start of this week. This has changed slightly since and below is an updated list of fallers and risers.

The biggest fallers on the FTSE 100

FTSE 100 fallers in the four weeks to 19 October 2018

The biggest AIM 100 fallers

AIM 100 fallers in the four weeks to 19 October 2018

But what's gone up? The FTSE All Share risers

====== 897 ========

HOW TO PROFIT FROM IMPROVING THE ENVIRONMENT, ON THE INVESTING SHOW

A reverse vending machine that recycles plastics, an alternative to cotton that is less devastating for the environment, and clever software to help farmers grow more with less effort.

Those are just three of the things that companies held by investment trust Impax Environmental Markets produce.

If you thought investing to make the world better, was all about ethical funds that just avoid tobacco, arms and oil, then think again.

It is possible to invest your money with companies that are trying to answer the questions that the world is throwing at us, improving the environment and making the most of scarce resources – and make a profit from that.

On the latest investing Show, Jon Forster, of Impax Environmental Markets, joins us to explain what this interesting investment trust does and what he has learnt in almost two decades of investing this way, through both boom and bust.

The trust focusses on energy, water, waste and sustainable food and within those categories are some companies doing fascinating things. Watch the video to find out more.

====== 898 ========

MARK MOBIUS ON WHY HE STILL BELIEVES IN EMERGING AND FRONTIER MARKETS

Emerging and frontier markets represent the best opportunity for investors to profit over the next five, 10 or 20 years, according to Dr Mark Mobius.

As a veteran emerging markets investor, he admits that he is ‘a little biased’ and you would expect him to say that.

But he has also put his money where his mouth is, coming out of a brief four-month retirement to launch the Mobius Investment Trust to profit from the potential growth of smaller and mid-sized emerging and frontier market companies.

Mark joined us on the latest Investing Show to outline why he believes emerging and frontier markets currently represent great value and the companies that he favours.

He shares his investment outlook, how he finds companies to invest in and why ‘by and large we like to go after those countries that are in trouble. Where the news is very negative’, as that provides the opportunity for good companies at bargain prices.

He also explains to Simon Lambert, of This is Money, and Richard Hunter, of Interactive Investor, the benefit of the trust and accompanying fund’s environmental, social and governance controls and why that can mean better profits from better run companies.

Will the UK stock market rise this year?

The FTSE 100 index has made a series of record highs this year but is down on where it started 2018.

The next few months will define whether this year was a good one for UK investors, but how are they likely to pan out?

Simon Lambert and Richard Hunter take a look at the outlook for investors and whether the bull market has further to run, or is likely to be sunk.

====== 899 ========

HOW TO INVEST AROUND THE WORLD - AND TRY TO DODGE CRASHES

It’s never been easier to invest around the world, but still many people shun investing for the low returns of cash.

But why should they invest and how can you do it easily.

Andrew Craig, the author of How to own the world: A plain English guide to thinking globally and investing wisely joins us on the latest Investing Show to share his thoughts.

He is also now a fund manager, with a product that invests around the world but has an unusual twist aimed at dodging the worst of a market crash.

Find out more by watching the show.

====== 900 ========

HOW IMPACT INVESTING CAN PROFIT FROM COMPANIES SHAPING OUR FUTURE

Do you care where you invest, or are you just worried about making money?

For many investors, the latter tends to be more of a concern than ethically targeted investing.

But what about if caring about where you invest could make you more money?

That could potentially be the case for those who back impact investing, a concept that is still niche but gathering a head of steam in the investment world.

It is the next step on from socially responsible and ethical investing and involves investing in companies and ventures with the intention to generate social and environmental impact alongside a financial return.

But what does that mean to the ordinary investor? Tim Crockford, of the recently-launched Hermes Impact Opportunities fund, joined us on the Investing Show to explain.

He outlines how the fund looks for businesses that can contribute and benefit to eight key themes, ranging from water, to energy transition, education and future mobility.

Impact investing backs companies and organisations shaping our future, which could range from water sustainability, to health and electric car infrastructure

These are the themes that are likely to define the next 20, 30 or 50 years and so impact investing is essentially an investment in the future.

And as these are major issues for the world and individual countries, it is possible for investors to benefit from the companies that governments expect to step in and move us towards elements such as electric cars and charging, improving health and wellbeing and transforming the energy system to a low carbon one.

====== 901 ========

HOW TO FIND THE BEST COMPANY SHARES TO INVEST IN

After a decade distorted by emergency rates and quantitative easing, investors need to rethink their strategy for a world where they can no longer simply rely on cheap money boosting returns.

That is the view of David Miller, investment director at Quilter Cheviot, who, in addition to using funds to invest for his clients, is also a committed stock-picker and believes buying individual company shares is still a route to success.

‘It’s a question of working out who’s got a good business model, who makes a profit, who’s borrowed too much money and has a balance sheet that will evaporate at the first sign of trouble,’ he says.

‘Those are judgements that are now having to be made after that longish period when much of a muchness seemed to be ok.’

David joins Simon Lambert, of This is Money, and Richard Hunter, of Interactive Investor, on the latest Investing Show to explain how he finds good companies.

He discusses what investors should look out for and highlights some of the opportunities he sees at the moment in the UK stock market, particularly those in the FTSE 250 going after the big guns’ business.

One company that he highlights as having profited from a successful business model, despite being in a tough sector, is retailer B&M.

Britain’s companies have seen a slight resurgence in interest from investors recently, having been out-of-favour for some time, but David says that he believes it’s important to dig deeper than countries or sectors and instead identify the companies that have carved out a successful niche and are capitalising on that.

What's the problem with a trade war?

Stock markets have stumbled on Donald Trump's tough stance on tariffs and fears of an international trade war.

But what is the problem with protectionist tariffs, why are investors worried and how big of a threat is a trade war to portfolios? Simon Lambert, Richard Hunter and Nick Batsford, of Core London, discuss it on the second part of this fortnight's Investing Show.

====== 902 ========

OPPORTUNITIES TO PROFIT FOR INVESTORS: FROM GOLD AND OIL SHARES TO INDIA

With share prices riding high where should investors look for opportunities?

US shares are trading at expensive valuations, almost all assets have had a good run in recent years and even that eternal laggard the UK stock market has hit a series of record highs - shaking off the struggles of earlier this year,

This means that investors need to become more selective if they want good returns in the months and years ahead, says Tom Becket, chief investment officer of Psigma Investment Management,

On this episode of the Investing Show, Tom joins Simon Lambert, of This is Money and Richard Hunter, of Interactive Investor, to explain why he believes investors need to divide their thinking into short and long-term opportunities - and gives us three examples of where he believes those may lie.

In the short-term, Tom says that oil and gold mining firms may offer a chance for profit, with firms having trimmed their costs and become more efficient but their shares have lagged behind the commodity.

In the long-term, he sees India as having the potential to deliver good returns and explains what he learned from a recent visit there - and why funds with managers with good contacts on the ground there are the best option.

====== 903 ========

INVESTING SHOW: WHAT IS HAPPENING TO HOUSE PRICES AND THE PROPERTY MARKET?

The property market is slowing and house price inflation has eased back but is this just being driven by London and the commuter belt?

While London has sunk to the bottom of the house price league, the rest of the country is not doing so badly.

However, the property market has history of following where London leads - meanwhile, buy-to-let is no longer bolstering prices.

Andrew Montlake, of Coreco, joins the Investing Show to explain what is happening.

In the second part of the show, Richard Hunter, of Interactive Investor, looks at the Government's recent RBS share sale and why it was willing to sell at a loss.

Meanwhile, with Lloyds doing well financially but treading water on the stock market, he also looks at how bank shares compare.

====== 904 ========

WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT INVESTING IN GLOBAL FUNDS

A global fund invested in shares around the world makes a good core element for your portfolio.

A tracker or index fund will follow the global index, while an active fund will try to cherry pick the best companies, which could increase your returns but also the chance the manager could get it wrong, or their style will fall out of favour.

These are ideas, not recommendations - always do your own research:

Passive funds

Fidelity Index World Fund P

This follows the companies that make up the MSCI World Index of developed markets. Ongoing charges: 0.13%

HSBC FTSE All World Index Fund C

This follows a global index that also includes an emerging markets element. Ongoing charges: 0.16%

iShares MSCI ACWI ETF

This is an ETF that follows an index made up of both developed and emerging markets companies.Ongoing charges: 0.6%

Active funds

These are four of the most popular global funds and investment trusts

Lindsell Train Global Equity

This fund buys and holds what the well-respected managers Michael Lindsell and Nick Train see as the world’s best companies.

Nick Train has been dubbed Britain's answer to Warren Buffett due to his buy and hold quality and value strategy. This global equity fund run with his business partner has paid off handsomely, with its relatively small portfolio making it third best sector performer over five years. Ongoing charges: 0.74%

Fundsmith Equity

Terry Smith’s fund invests in global companies he perceives as having an enduring advantage. This means that it heavily backs consumer brands and well-known names. These companies are picked due to their high return on and considered as those with the power to turn cash into consistent profit.

Performance has been good but it is heavily weighted to the US, read more on Fundsmith here. Ongoing charges: 0.97%

Witan investment trust

This investment trust targets long-term growth and invests with a variety of fund managers around the world, however, a third of it is in UK shares.

Witan is offered recommended as a solid cornerstone investment in a portfolio and due to its multi-manager approach it spreads its risk widely, with no single company making up more than 2% of the trust's holdings. Ongoing charges: 0.86%

Scottish Mortgage

This is the third best-performing global investment trust over ten years and Scottish Mortgage regularly features on best buy lists. It is a big trust that's cheap to own and which targets what the managers see as the world's most exciting companies.

That means big bets on firms they think could change the world, such as Tesla, Amazon and Baidu, and also investments in companies not listed on the stock market. Its investment strategy has paid off but means it is riskier than other options. Ongoing charges: 0.44%

====== 905 ========

WHEN IS A GOOD TIME TO START INVESTING - AND HOW CAN YOU CUT RISK?

Investing allows you to put your money to work to earn better returns, but when is a good time to start?

Studies have shown that many people who don’t invest believe that investing isn’t for people like them. However, if you are will to take some risk, once you have a rainy day fund safely saved in cash, investing over the long-term represents your best chance of inflation-beating returns that will make you richer.

So, how do you get started? You need to consider your goals, how long you plan to invest for and how much risk you are willing to take.

On this episode of the Investing Show, Shaun Port, chief investment officer at Nutmeg, explains why investing works, how to get started easily, and how to lower your risk.

He joins Simon Lambert, of This is Money, and Richard Hunter, of Interactive Investor, for a discussion that demystifies investment world.

They look at why long-term investing should be profitable, how shares and bonds differ, how to build a simple portfolio and how to weigh up your goals and appetite for risk.

====== 906 ========

CAN MY EX AVOID SHARING HIS PENSION WITH ME BY MOVING IT ABROAD?

I'm going through a divorce and I've heard that some people have got out of splitting their pension by quietly moving it abroad.

I'm worried my ex-husband might do this. How do I prevent it? I live in England.

Moving a pension overseas: What risk do you face if an ex moves a pot abroad and how do you guard against it happening?

Rhys Taylor is a barrister specialising in matrimonial finance claims who practises from chambers in Cardiff and London.

He is a co-author of Pensions on Divorce: A Practitioner's Guide. He replies: You must first ask yourself if you are right to be worried.

In favour of the worry is the fact that the courts have held that it is not possible to make an English pension sharing order against an overseas pension scheme and it is possible to transfer certain English pension funds into overseas pensions, such as a Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS).

There are, however, a number of factors that will militate against the worry.

First, your ex may well have valuable assets and a life based in England or Wales. If that is the case orders may be made against other assets in his name and your ex should be easily subject to the court's enforcement mechanisms.

Government slaps 25% tax charge on moving pensions overseas The Chancellor introduced this to clamp down on people trying to dodge UK tax bills. Read more here.

Secondly, since March 2017, the Government clamped down on most transfers into QROPS. It is still possible to do, but it would be subject to a 25 per cent tax charge.

This has led to a significant reduction in QROPS transfers.

These factors will make a pension flight unlikely in many cases.

There are exceptions to the 25 per cent charge if both your ex and the QROPS are based in the same country or if both your ex and the QROPS are resident in different countries in the European Economic Area.

What risk do you face if your ex does move their pension abroad?

If you already have the benefit of an old pension attachment order, the attachment order cannot follow the funds into a destination QROPS.

Worse still, there is no obligation on the pension trustee (by trustee, throughout this response, I mean any pension company or arrangement which holds regulated pension funds) or your ex (unless you secure a specific promise that they give to the court) to inform you that instructions have been given for the transfer to be made, until it has been done.

Pension attachment orders, however, are now quite rare.

More likely, you may be in the course of divorce and associated financial proceedings and concerned that your ex may (even allowing for the factors against this which I gave above) seek to thwart your application for a pension sharing order with a transfer of pension funds overseas.

How might you guard against your ex moving a pension overseas?

Pension attachment orders and pension sharing orders A pension attachment order is where a court decides that a percentage of someone's future pension income and retirement lump sum must be paid to their ex-spouse, writes This is Money. But these orders only take effect when the pension holder reaches their scheme's retirement age, which might be years after their divorce. Courts now prefer to use pension sharing orders, which were introduced later and split a pension straight away on a 'clean break' basis. Each ex-spouse walks away with a share of the pension, which they control themselves from then onwards. This is Money's pensions columnist, Steve Webb, explains in more detail here.

There are a few steps which may reduce your exposure to this risk.

They can get complicated and if you don't have a solicitor already I strongly advise you to get one who will help you.

1. Ensure that the pension trustee of the scheme involved is properly served with notice of the proceedings and your application for a pension share, as is required by rule 9.31 of the Family Procedure Rules 2010.

The pension trustee is then on notice that the fund may be subject to a sharing order in the future.

While this is far from a complete protection, as soon as the trustee is served with a copy of a pension sharing order (the pension sharing order only takes effect on the later date of 28 days after the making of the pension sharing order or the granting of the divorce, known as the decree absolute) it would have to carefully examine its duties as a trustee before allowing an ex to remove funds which are clearly intended to be shared.

However, if the trustee has not been served with a notice under 9.31 from the outset, it may have less obligation to consider your position.

The court will serve the pension sharing order, but often there may be delays or mistakes made by overstretched court offices.

For this reason, the recipient of a pension sharing order should serve it on the pension trustees themselves, as soon as they have it.

If the case is actually in court, ask the court to give you a sealed copy of the pension sharing order there and then.

If the case is not in court, even consider writing to the pension trustees with a copy of the agreed draft pension sharing order, saying that the sealed one will follow.

2. If you have concern that your ex may try and do something with their pension, you could also ask them to give a formal undertaking (a solemn promise) to the court that they will not transfer or deal with the pension until any pension sharing order has been implemented, after the conclusion of all divorce related proceedings.

Rhys Taylor: 'It is not possible to make an English pension sharing order against an overseas pension scheme'

If they refuse to give such a promise to the court, then you would need to ask yourself why they are refusing to do so and consider inviting the court to grant an injunction to stop them from dealing with their fund.

However, you should be aware that there needs to be substantial grounds before you can persuade a court to take such a step and being worried or just being suspicious is not enough.

3. When a final financial order is made there is often a 'clean break' order, which means that neither party can come back to court for any further financial claims.

If you have real worries about being able to implement any pension sharing order the court may grant you, you or your lawyer can invite the court to say that only 'upon implementation of a pension sharing order...' the clean break will be granted.

This will mean that certain of your financial claims will be kept open until your pension sharing order has been safely implemented and you have the fund in your own name.

What if your ex does move the pension abroad?

If the worst happens and a fund which you depend upon is spirited away, you may try and seek an order setting aside that transaction, if your ex is still in England or Wales and therefore physically subject to the court's jurisdiction.

If your ex has left England and Wales and does not intend to return, you might be able to obtain a special kind of injunction which would delegate management of your ex's pension fund to a receiver.

You would probably need to seek advice in the jurisdiction where the pension funds are based, in order to secure such an outcome.

The receiver would then act to require (by instructing the trustee of the overseas scheme) some or all of the pension to be drawn, with payments being made by the overseas pension fund to be directed to you personally.

Whilst this may assist, the fund will remain your ex's and if they were to die it would be even more difficult, probably impossible, to secure further payment.

The receiver may have been able to nominate you to receive successor pension benefits, but that would depend upon the terms of the scheme allowing for such a nomination to a non-spouse or child.

In very rare instances it might also be possible to seek to attack an overseas pension, not using pension sharing legislation, but a Victorian provision which has been transposed into modern legislation, known as a 'variation of a nuptial settlement'.

However, the power to do this and the circumstances where that may be possible are the subject of much legal uncertainty and complexity in this context.

If your ex is acting in such an obstructive fashion, he is unlikely to co-operate with the following suggestion.

However, if there is a pension fund abroad and you are able to work together, you might explore whether the overseas court, where the pension is based, would be prepared to make a pension sharing/splitting order.

You could each promise the English court to do this, if it can be confirmed that the overseas court would make the order you require.

====== 907 ========

TWO WATER TOWERS IN ESSEX CONVERTED INTO A £1.6M HOME FOR SALE

It's a unique five-bedroom home spread across six floors that prompts a round of applause from anyone who steps inside.

These two former water towers in the Essex town of Halstead were converted a decade ago by a developer who sold it to the current owners.

The current owners - a couple who work in the music industry - have put their own stamp on the home, including two hanging bubble chairs in the living room and several well-stocked wine racks in the kitchen.

There is also a large Wizard of Oz theatre sign in one of the living areas, which originally appeared at the London Palladium in the West End, and an equally impressive Les Miserables one that was in Leicester Square.

It makes for an ideal entertaining spot, with parties held during the past decade accommodating up to 250 people.

The two waters towers have been converted into a unique five-bedroom home in Halstead, Essex

The items in the house were collected by the current owners who have travelled the world during their music career.

The couple - who preferred not to be identified - explained how they have loved living at the property since 2008 and are now moving as their children have left home and the house it too large for just the two of them.

The couple live in the main water tower that includes an impressive entrance door set in a glazed arch stretching across two levels.

They explained how their personal items, such as the photos on the walls, did not distract from the beautiful building that 'takes your breath away'.

Parts of the tower have five foot thick walls, while the rest is ornate Victorian red brick. There is also an accessible rooftop with panoramic views.

The house has an impressive 'Les Miserables' theatre sign that once appeared in Leicester Square

A designer touch: There are two bubble chairs handing from the rooftop in the living room

The main tower stretches across six floors and has access to a rooftop with panoramic views

It makes for a perfect location for large parties, but the current owners are now looking to downsize. It means they cannot take all of their furniture with them and so they are willing to negotiate with a buyer on selling some of the items.

The couple rents out the smaller self-contained water tower, which dates back to 1888. Local estate agents suggest the current rental value for this one-bedroom tower would be in the region of £850 a month.

The Courtauld family, one of the leading names in British textiles, built the second tower to supply additional water to its nearby yarn factory in the area.

In the other main tower, there are two staircases, with one clearly visible on all the floors. The other spiral staircase is hidden from view, making it perfect for use by staff or guests wishing to move unseen between floors when parties are in full swing.

The property is on the market for £1.6million, with the sale being handled by estate agents Heritage

There is a large 'Wizard of Oz' theatre sign that appeared at the London Palladium in the West End

The house is an ideal entertaining spot, with parties held during the past decade accommodating up to 250 people

There is an abundance of well-stocked wine racks and cupboards in the colourful kitchen

The kitchen has plenty of storage space provided by the black cabinets and drawers

The property is on the market for £1.6million, with the sale being handled by estate agents Heritage.

The agent's director Andy McManus said: 'I have never seen anything like this property before and the conversion has been done to such a high standard.'

'It will suit someone who is after something quirky, although it is functional and flows well. And of course, it is such a great house for entertaining.'

The house includes items of furniture that the current owners have collected from around the world

The current owners say that they are willing to negotiate on selling some of the items of furniture

There are two separate staircases in the main tower and some decorative brick archways

Outdoors there is a gravelled courtyard entered via double electric gates and a double garage. There is also a lawn, a patio with a seating area and a pizza oven.

Lawrence Hall, of property website Zoopla, said: 'This property shows that even the most unusual and industrial of buildings can be adapted to become a beautiful modern home with tonnes of character, as long as you can get the planning permission of course.

'Buildings built in the industrial revolution make prime candidates for conversions of this kind as the Victorians were renowned for building robust buildings from local brick, which were built to last.'

The average price of a property in the area is £485,388, according to property website Zoopla

The property in Colne Road is 15 minutes from the nearest main train station of Braintree, which has direct trains into London's Liverpool street that take one hour.

The average price of a property in the area is £485,388, according to property website Zoopla. It is higher than the national average, which currently stands at £311,155.

There are several primary and secondary schools in the area, including St Andrew's Church of England Primary School and Gosfield Community Primary School.

====== 908 ========

CAN YOU TRUST ONE FREE APP TO KEEP ALL YOUR PASSWORDS SAFE?

A password manager can be a vital tool to keep your personal information out of the hands of online criminals – giving you a single log-in to an app that saves you having to remember lots of different codes.

Once you have signed in, you can use the app to store passwords for all your online accounts securely, or even log in to them directly from the password manager itself.

But there is a potential dark side to this technology as it could be a target for hackers.

A password manager can be a vital tool to keep your personal information out of the hands of online criminals – giving you a single log-in to an app that saves you having to remember lots of different codes

If a fraudster were able to steal your master password, they could gain access to key financial details all at once. So should you trust a password manager to keep your information safe?

The apps use software to store all an individual's passwords in a 'virtual bank vault'. They are then accessed via the single hard-to-crack master password.

Experts including the National Cyber Security Centre – part of the Government Communications Headquarters intelligence service (GCHQ) – believe a password manager makes an individual's data more secure.

But it has not stopped criminals targeting these password vaults. Last year, password manager LastPass discovered a flaw in its software that was fixed without it affecting the service. In 2015, it also had to fend off a cyber attack.

Password manager OneLogin also 'detected unauthorised access' last year but it was able to block it in time.

Colin Tankard, of Harlow-based data security company Digital Pathways, says a password manager does not offer bullet-proof security because it will always be a target for hackers.

Last year, password manager LastPass discovered a flaw in its software that was fixed without it affecting the service. In 2015, it also had to fend off a cyber attack

He adds: 'Its weakest point is the user, not the technology. A master password must be kept safe and not shared with anyone else. Without the password, criminals have no way of stealing a person's data kept inside the vault.'

Master passwords must be complex, containing lower case and capital letters, numbers and symbols in a sequence of at least 12 characters. Experts say using a story can help create a memorable password. For example, 'Fidoate!my2woolsox' – referring to a pet dog eating someone's socks.

Another option is to imagine a memorable picture scene. For example sitting in a Rolls-Royce with the stereo blaring out with Freddie Mercury singing 'We are the champions' while driving along the A406 North Circular road in London. This could trigger the password: 'RRFMwatc@A406'.

PROS AND CONS OF PASSWORD MANAGERS PROS A password manager is the safest way to store a range of security passwords and is endorsed by technology experts.

If someone steals your computer or hacks into a password manager your details are encrypted and cannot be accessed by criminals.

You can relax knowing you do not need to remember a jumble of passwords – it is all available in one safe place.

The technology means you can use harder to crack 'strong' passwords – as they are stored in encrypted computer software and not your head. CONS An obvious target for cyber crooks – though the secrets have yet to be cracked. If someone gets your master password they gain access to all your information straight away.

Forget your master password and you have to go through lots of hoops to reset and retrieve your information.

It is software – the technology that attracted hackers in the first place. You are more reliant on a high-tech storage service.

There may be a cost for extras – such as being able to use the service on different devices.

If you are worried about forgetting a master password it can be written down somewhere safe, but in a hidden place that only you know about. If you use the master password elsewhere or make it too simple – perhaps the name of your pet cat or first child – you are susceptible to being hacked.

Surprisingly, it is young people aged 18 to 24 who are most vulnerable to password hacks. Four in ten of this age group have shared online passwords with friends, while 85 per cent readily share personal details such as a birthday on social media. The software provided by a password manager is designed so it cannot be read by anyone else – even the security software provider – because the information is encrypted.

Among the providers worth considering are Dashlane, Keeper, Sticky Password, LastPass, 1Password and RoboForm

It means a dishonest employee or hacker who breaks into the software will only get a jumble of meaningless characters, unless they also steal your password. Among the providers worth considering are Dashlane, Keeper, Sticky Password, LastPass, 1Password and RoboForm.

You usually sign up for free but they tempt you to pay a yearly subscription of up to £30 with extras such as using the service from different computers and smartphones. Once you have entered the 'virtual bank vault' – sometimes also known as an 'electronic wallet' – you can start putting in personal details of all the services that you use as well as all your passwords.

You might like to include details such as your driving licence and passport number. You will find all the password services you have signed up to are clearly shown when you log in.

The password manager often automatically asks if you wish to save secret codes for services such as Google, Facebook, Amazon and Netflix. But it is up to you to tap in the website, log-in details and passwords for other services that you might use – which can take time as well as a memory for exactly what they all are.

Although you can include a bank website, it will not usually allow you to go straight into an account without also manually putting in passwords and text codes, as banks have extra security measures.

You can also ask a password manager to generate new random 'strong' passwords that will be encrypted within the software – harder to crack codes that you will not need to remember.

'Multi-factor authentication' is another option to further improve security. This means tapping in a master password and then another layer of security – anything from fingerprint authentication to using a smart card where you put in a code to gain access.

There is no need to fear what happens if you suddenly lose your memory or die, as an 'emergency access' facility allows passwords to be retrieved by someone you trust – though it can take time as legal verification of this will be required.

A spokesman for the National Cyber Security Centre says: 'The password manager software provides a huge advantage in a world where there are already far too many passwords to remember. It enables the storage of complex codes without a need for you to remember them – making security not only better but far easier and more convenient.'

But the centre points out that users should be aware that password manager software could be a target for hackers.

====== 909 ========

THE FOREIGN OFFICE TELLS MILLIONS OF BRITISH SKIERS THAT IT WON'T PAY THEIR MEDIC BILLS

Ski season is fast approaching, prompting a warning from the Foreign Office to millions of British skiers that it will not bail out people who get into trouble on the slopes.

Susan Crown, head of consular communications, says: 'It is important to know that the Foreign and Commonwealth Office cannot pay medical bills if you are hospitalised abroad nor can we fly you home – and unexpected medical costs or returning to the UK can be expensive.'

Two British ski-related deaths and 197 'significant' incidents were reported at overseas resorts in the past year.

Ski season is fast approaching, prompting a warning from the Foreign Office to millions of British skiers that it will not bail out people who get into trouble on the slopes

The true figure could be higher, as this only relates to incidents logged by ABTA – the association for travel agents and tour operators.

Nearly 1.5 million British people are expected to go on a skiing or snowboarding trip this season, which starts before Christmas and peaks in the first three months of the New Year.

Anyone who has an accident and needs to be airlifted off a mountain will face medical bills of thousands of pounds if they do not have travel insurance.

For example, a holidaymaker who last year had a serious fall while skiing would have faced a £90,000 medical bill as a result of fracturing a rib and puncturing a lung if she had not got insurance.

This involved a two-week stay in hospital and a doctor escort on the return flight to the UK.

Travellers need to check that any insurance deal specifically covers winter sports – and look out for any strict rules they must comply with to guarantee protection. ABTA's Nikki White says: 'Many assume they are automatically covered for winter sports when they are not.'

====== 910 ========

TONY HETHERINGTON: AIR CANADA FAILED TO TAKE OFF A £4K BLOCK ON MY CARD

Tony Hetherington is Financial Mail on Sunday's ace investigator, fighting readers corners, revealing the truth that lies behind closed doors and winning victories for those who have been left out-of-pocket. Find out how to contact him below.

D.G. writes: I used my HSBC Visa debit card to book flights with Air Canada costing £4,189. The airline 'blocked' this sum on my card but then two days later it collected the payment by making two separate withdrawals of just over £2,094 each.

Yet Air Canada did not remove the block on £4,189 and my account fell into debit. I only discovered this when I tried to use a cash machine and my card was rejected.

Mess: The airline failed to remove the £4,189 block on a customer’s debit card

Tony replies: Many cardholders will be unaware that this system of blocking even exists, simply because most companies operate it smoothly. The idea is that if you book something which cannot be immediately confirmed, or you check into a hotel and have no idea how much you will spend on meals and drinks, the business can 'pre-authorise' a big slice of the spending allowed on your card. It blocks this sum until the final bill is known.

Your first instinct was to blame HSBC for not lifting the block. In fact, HSBC did its best to help you by offering a temporary cash advance. But the blunt fact was that only Air Canada could lift the block it had imposed, effectively freezing your funds.

The effect was not pleasant. While you fought to get Air Canada to lift the block, you had to transfer savings into your current account to keep it afloat. You also had to offer an embarrassing apology to a friend because you were unable to repay a loan. Air Canada, though, insisted it had done nothing wrong.

It had drawn its £4,189 and it reasoned that Visa and HSBC should have spotted that the two chunks of money it collected added up to the right amount and they should have lifted the block.

Fine – except that this is not how the banking system works. UK Finance, the trade body for banks and card companies, told me: 'When a pre-authorisation is taken, once the final amount is known and confirmed, there is an obligation for the merchant to inform their acquirer who must then instruct the issuer to release these funds.'

WE'RE WATCHING YOU Banned: Robin Harrison The boss of a home heating company has been banned from holding any directorship, two-and-a-half years after I called on the Insolvency Service to kick him out of the boardroom. Robin Harrison, 50, of Sowerby Bridge in West Yorkshire, headed Complete Energy Europe Limited, a Manchester business that claimed to offer super-efficient radiators using graphene. In 2016, I warned that his company had pocketed £4,000 from a customer despite its own surveyor ruling the new radiators were not suitable for the customer's home. I revealed that Harrison had previously run two companies that were shut down by the High Court over unpaid debts. I called on the Insolvency Service to ban him. Harrison has now been disqualified from acting as the director of any company for the next 11 years. Insolvency Service investigators say he used 'objectionable sales practices to sell heating systems' and that his company 'made false and misleading claims about the cost and efficiency of the product'. Harrison continued to market these systems even after it was known they were faulty or even dangerous, investigators found, and his company raked in £1.69 million.

In plain English, this means that once Air Canada took its £4,189, it should have told its own bank to tell Visa as well as HSBC to remove the block immediately. It is nonsense for Air Canada to say that anyone should have guessed that the two payments it collected added up to the blocked amount.

I asked Air Canada why it had not followed banking rules and why it had confusingly collected its £4,189 in two separate transactions. As if the problem had only just happened, it told me: 'Air Canada has contacted the relevant bank to request a reversal of the amount concerned.' It added: 'It is the responsibility of the bank concerned to remove the authorisation hold and release the funds.'

This is a complete and disgraceful abdication of responsibility by Air Canada. It does not even say which bank it contacted. Does it mean its own bank? Or HSBC? It is definitely not the responsibility of HSBC to remove the block.

When I pressed Air Canada to say why it had made such a mess, it ridiculously sent me just a second copy of its first statement. It failed to answer even a single question. It refused to offer any explanation. It also got the banking rules wrong.

You got your money back through your own efforts, so for Air Canada to tell me now that it has contacted any bank is just a pathetic attempt at a whitewash. This is a major airline that is the flag carrier of a major nation. Shame on it. Its customers – and Canada – deserve better.

Why can't Barclays get a grip of my Isa switch?

J.M. writes: I have about £306,000 in Barclays Isa and share accounts. I asked Barclays to transfer £65,000 to Hargreaves Lansdown and the same to IWEB, part of Halifax, in order to spread risk. The transfers were not made. I complained. Barclays offered £200 compensation, but this was not paid. It offered £50 to compensate for not paying the £200, but failed to pay this as well.

Tony replies: You are just one of many investors caught up in the mounting chaos that followed the bank's move from its traditional stockbroking business to something it called Barclays Smart Investor. The really smart investors seem to be those who bailed out. Barclays did eventually transfer £28,000 to IWEB, five months after you applied.

One reader is annoyed that Barclays can't get a grip of their Isa switch

You complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service, but the bank did not respond to it either. But curiously, IWEB told you that Barclays had sent it shares in Tritax Big Box, worth about £3,000.

Why curious? Because you have no such shares. Both you and I have been bashing away at Barclays for months and the final transfer to Hargreaves Lansdown was made eight months after you requested it.

The last of the investment transfers to IWEB went ahead one year after you requested it. Barclays has also paid the £250 it promised, though I believe the ombudsman may still top this up. What a shambles.

If you believe you are the victim of financial wrongdoing, write to Tony Hetherington at Financial Mail, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TS or email tony.hetherington@mailonsunday.co.uk. Because of the high volume of enquiries, personal replies cannot be given. Please send only copies of original documents, which we regret cannot be returned.

====== 911 ========

WANT TO CUT YEARLY TRAIN FARES? JOIN THE COMMUTERCLUB, WHICH OFFERS SAVINGS OF UP TO £747

Rail fares are one of the biggest annual costs for working families – and also one of the toughest to trim.

Buying an annual season ticket is by far the cheapest method – and helps beat the full pain of the yearly price rise imposed on hard-pressed commuters. From January, fares will rise by an average of 3.2 per cent in line with inflation.

For someone commuting from Birmingham New Street to London this means an annual ticket bill increasing by £184 from £5,760 to £5,944. Finding such a big upfront sum is a struggle for many.

Specialist financial services company CommuterClub aims to give a helping hand by enabling travellers to take a loan to cover the bill up front

Specialist financial services company CommuterClub aims to give a helping hand by enabling travellers to take a loan to cover the bill up front.

Borrowers pay annual interest of 11.6 per cent which CommuterClub says works out cheaper than paying fares weekly or monthly.

Using the Birmingham example, a customer whose annual ticket starts next month would pay a total of £6,083 with CommuterClub, including interest.

This is a saving of £747 over the year for someone paying monthly or £1,626 buying weekly.

If commuters default on the loan, any remaining value on the ticket is reclaimed by CommuterClub. A similar loan arrangement is available for those commuting within London by MyCommute4Less via company Premium Credit.

VERDICT: The CommuterClub loan offers a convenient way to spread the cost of train fares. But there are alternatives that can work out cheaper.

Many employers offer free or low interest annual season ticket loans as a job perk – so ask. Alternatively, consider a zero per cent credit card.

There are several that offer interest-free credit for up to 28 months, including Post Office, Virgin Money, Tesco Bank and Barclaycard.

You will need a squeaky clean credit record to be eligible for the longest zero per cent periods. You must also ensure the balance is paid off before the zero period expires to avoid the go-to rates – 18.9 per cent for Post Office and 19.9 per cent for the others.

====== 912 ========

DEALS OF THE WEEK: A FREE 16 BOTTLE CASE OF WINE, CINEMA TICKETS AND £10 HOTEL STAYS

ENJOY a free case of 16 bottles of wine or a £100 bill credit when you buy a TV, phone and internet bundle worth at least £47 a month from Virgin Media.

Visit virginmedia.com/freewine. Offer ends November 30.

VISIT the cinema for free. Shopping website TopCashback is offering new members a £10 ticket which they can use at any UK cinema. Offer available until January 6. Visit topcashback.co.uk/cinema-nov18-tcb.

Enjoy a free case of 16 bottles of wine or a £100 bill credit when you buy a TV, phone and internet bundle worth at least £47 a month from Virgin Media (stock image)

TRAVEL on the cheap with £5 online exclusive fares from National Express. For travel between now and February 2. A £1 booking fee applies. Visit nationalexpress.com.

BOOK a hotel room for £9.99. Budget chain easyHotel is launching a sale across 10,000 rooms for people booking between November 23 and 26. It applies to visits between December 3 this year and May 6, 2019. Visit easyhotel.com/deals and enter the code 'BLACKFRI' at the online checkout.

BUY a thoughtful gift for less. Personalised children's brand My 1st Years is slashing the price of an item every day from today until November 26. Tomorrow the price of a navy unicorn backpack falls 50 per cent to £11. Visit my1styears.com.

====== 913 ========

WINTER IS COMING ... IT'S TIME TO GET YOUR CHIMNEY SWEPT: TOP TIPS ON DOING VITAL HOME MAINTENANCE

It might not yet feel like winter but now is the time to do vital home maintenance thereby avoiding expensive repair bills for domestic calamities such as frozen pipes or a boiler breakdown.

Do not make the mistake of assuming household insurance will cover repairs.

Adam Powell, from insurance specialist Policy Expert, says: 'Home insurance is not a maintenance policy. If a problem has been caused or exaggerated by poor upkeep of a property, it is unlikely you will be covered.'

It might not yet feel like winter but now is the time to do vital home maintenance thereby avoiding expensive repair bills for domestic calamities

GET BOILER SERVICED: Dealing with a boiler breakdown in the middle of winter can be an expensive nightmare, so having the boiler serviced should be a priority. Martyn Bridges, from boiler firm Worcester Bosch, says: 'You need to have your boiler serviced annually to keep it running effectively. Even a new boiler will need to be checked each year to check CO2 emissions and that flues are clear.'

A service should include a thorough inspection of the boiler and parts, the pressure, seals and flue. A one-off service costs between £80 and £100. Make sure your engineer is Gas Safe registered (gassaferegister.co.uk).Michelle Hodgson, an engineer from boiler installation service Hometree, adds: 'Boiler repair costs can range from £150 to £300, depending on the fault or damage.

'While that cost might look affordable, you could be faced with recurring faults and multiple bills. By contrast, you could get a new boiler installed for £1,600 – saving you money not only on repair bills, but also on your energy bills.'

Boiler insurance – or broader 'home emergency cover' – are options. But as such policies are often riddled with exclusions, a better bet may be to self-insure by putting aside a monthly sum in an easy-access savings account to dip into when a problem arises. A radiator full of trapped air only operates at half power so you need to check all are bled fully.

BOOST INSULATION: Put draught excluders in front of doorways, and buy foam and rubber strips to fill gaps in doors and windows. You can also buy extra flaps or brushes to add to letter boxes to keep out cold air. Lag any pipes and water tanks in exposed areas such as lofts, cellars and garages to prevent pipes freezing and bursting. Also fix dripping taps. Dan Simpson, from insurer Direct Line, says: 'Leave the heating on at around 15 degrees. Locate your stopcock and learn how to turn off the water supply in the event of an emergency.'

SWITCH ENERGY TARIFF: Following an unprecedented period of energy price rises, make sure you are not paying too much. Switching deals can save £200 a year. Consider investing in a 'smart' thermostat, such as Hive or Nest, which can be controlled remotely using a mobile phone.

GET CHIMNEY SWEPT: Make sure that chimneys are swept professionally each year – otherwise an insurer may not cover any damage from a fire. It costs around £50. Look for a sweep registered with the National Association of Chimney Sweeps at nacs.org.uk. Homeowners with a wood-burning stove can find a sweep registered with HETAS at hetas.co.uk.

Outside the property, check guttering and remove clumps of leaves and mud that could lead to gutters collapsing – or water leaking into a home. Sort out loose or missing tiles and repair cracks around chimney pots and at the roof join, and fix render that has come away from the stack.

====== 914 ========

CAN COUPLES INHERIT STATE PENSION FROM EACH OTHER?

I would be grateful if you could answer the following question about a widow's pension position.

I am 80 years old and receive a total state pension of £8,268 per year. My wife, aged 74, receives a total pension of £3,976 per year.

If I predecease her, does she not inherit my higher state pension? This is what happened recently when my sister's husband died. She inherited his normal higher pension. They were both on similar pensions to us.

SCROLL DOWN TO FIND OUT HOW TO ASK YOUR PENSION QUESTION

Planning ahead: What state pension can couples inherit from each other?

Steve Webb replies: The rules on whether someone can inherit a state pension depend on when they and their spouse reached state pension age.

In your case, you and your wife reached state pension age before 6 April 2016, when the rules changed.

You come under the old system when the rules on inheritance were much more generous than they are for those who reach pension age under the new system.

Under the old state pension system there were two main parts to your pension. First, there is a 'basic' state pension, currently payable at a rate of £125.95 per week for those with the necessary contributions.

Steve Webb: Find out how to ask the former Pensions Minister a question about your retirement savings in the box below

Second, there is the state earnings-related pension scheme (commonly known as SERPS and subsequently renamed 'state second pension') where the amount you get depends on how much you earned and for how long you contributed.

The inheritance rules are different for each component.

Starting with the basic pension, I assume that you are getting a full basic state pension.

But from the figures that you have supplied, it looks as though your wife is getting a reduced state pension at around 60 per cent of the full rate, and almost certainly based on your record of contributions.

If you were to die before your wife, she would be able to claim a full basic state pension based on your record of contributions.

I would expect this to be the full rate of £125.95 per week or £6,549 per year instead of the £3,976 she currently receives.

But your pension also includes an element for SERPS. Deducting the full basic pension from the total figure you have supplied, I would assume your SERPS pension is roughly £1,719 per year.

If you were to die, your wife would also receive a percentage of this amount. The exact percentage that can be inherited depends on your date of birth and ranges between 50 per cent and 100 per cent.

A table that gives all the percentages and dates of birth can be found here and below.

Given that you are 80 years old and were presumably born in around 1938, I would expect from the table that your wife would inherit 90 per cent of your SERPS amount which is roughly £1,546.

Although it is probably not relevant in your case, if you had built up any 'state second pension' from contributions from 2002 onwards, only 50 per cent of this could be inherited.

In summary, if you were to die before your wife she would be likely to get a full basic pension of £6,549 and 90 per cent of your SERPS, so an extra £1,546, giving her an annual pension of around £8,095, compared with her current figure of £3,976.

For couples where both are under the new system, if your pension built up as at April 2016 is over the flat rate of £164.35 a week, the excess is called a 'protected payment'.

Some 50 per cent of this can be inherited. Special rules apply to women who paid the reduced 'married woman's stamp'.

====== 915 ========

MY EMPLOYER RUNS A 'SALARY SACRIFICE' SCHEME - SHOULD I GO FOR IT?

My employer allows me to use a salary sacrifice scheme to make pension contributions, but I'm not sure of the advantages and disadvantages of doing this. Please can you advise?

SCROLL DOWN TO FIND OUT HOW TO ASK YOUR PENSION QUESTION

Work dilemma: Should you give up part of your salary in order to pay less National Insurance on pension contributions?

Steve Webb replies: Salary sacrifice (or 'salary exchange') schemes are a way in which an employer and an employee can reduce their National Insurance bill when putting money into a pension.

Depending on exactly how the scheme is set up it can benefit the employee, the employer or both, and such arrangements are now widespread.

How does salary sacrifice work?

The easiest way to understand salary sacrifice is to look at what happens normally when a worker earns money and puts it into a pension.

At present, employers have to pay National Insurance Contributions at a rate of 13.8 per cent on wages between a floor of £162 per week and a ceiling of £892 per week.

Workers have to pay NICs at a rate of 12 per cent on their wages within the same bands.

Steve Webb: Find out how to ask the former Pensions Minister a question about your retirement savings in the box below

Suppose that you want to put £100 of your gross wage into a pension.

By the time this money gets out of your pay packet, your employer will have paid £13.80 in NICs and you will have paid £12, a total of £25.80.

Compare this with a situation where you say to your employer that you are willing to go without (or 'sacrifice') £100 per week of your salary on condition that your employer puts that amount into a pension.

In this scenario, no-one has to pay NICs on this money, saving £25.80 between you and your employer.

Exactly how that gain of £25.80 is split will depend on the exact set-up of the scheme your employer has on offer.

In some cases the most generous employers will put their NICs saving into your pension as well, but even if they do not do so you have still saved your £12 of employee NICs.

Is salary sacrifice worth it?

There are not many reasons not to go for this if you were planning to put money into a pension in any case.

The main thing that you need to bear in mind is that you are, in effect, accepting a lower rate of salary.

If you have an annual bonus that is a percentage of your salary or if you are in a salary-related pension scheme then the salary being used in those calculations will be lower, so you might get a slightly lower bonus or slightly lower salary-related pension.

Similar considerations might affect how much maternity pay someone received or even how much a mortgage lender would allow them to borrow, especially if they 'sacrificed' a significant amount of salary.

But for most people the advantages of salary sacrifice are likely to outweigh these potential downsides.

Will the Government axe salary sacrifice?

There are always rumours that the Treasury will end 'salary sacrifice' for pensions because of the loss in National Insurance revenue that it creates.

But the Government has reviewed the system relatively recently and said it has no plans to end salary sacrifice for pensions, so for most people it would be well worth taking advantage of this opportunity while it is there.

Salary sacrifice can also be used for other employer benefits such as help with childcare, and you can read a helpful article on the whole subject by the Money Advice Service here.

====== 916 ========

WILL 25% TAX FREE PENSION LUMP SUM GET AXED IN THE BUDGET?

I plan to take the 25 per cent tax free lump sum from my pension in the next six months.

Do you think the 25 per cent tax free lump sum is at risk in the Budget? If there were changes, when would they come into effect?

Can I wait and see what happens in the Budget and still have time to take the lump sum at 25 per cent should it be changed or do I need to take a view now as to whether I need to take action in October to ensure I benefit from the lump sum at 25 per cent?

SCROLL DOWN TO FIND OUT HOW TO ASK YOUR PENSION QUESTION

Budget risk: Will the Chancellor axe the 25% tax free lump sum in the Budget, and if so will it take effect immediately?

Steve Webb replies: Ahead of every Budget there is always speculation that the Chancellor will make major changes to pension tax relief.

Given that there have been six separate cuts to the limits for pension tax relief since 2010, this is hardly surprising.

But in my view the chance of the Chancellor doing something as radical as scrapping or capping 25 per cent tax free lump sums, especially for those close to retirement, is close to zero.

The ability to take a quarter of your pension as a tax free lump sum is one of the most attractive features of the pension system.

Steve Webb: Find out how to ask the former Pensions Minister a question about your retirement savings in the box below

There is no doubt that the Treasury would be keen to find a way to reduce this tax perk if they could.

As long ago as the 1980s the former Chancellor Nigel Lawson admitted in a Budget speech that he had considered taking action.

But he told MPs he had decided not to touch what he called 'the much loved but anomalous' tax free lump sum.

The reasons for this are mainly to do with politics.

Pretty much everyone who is building up a pension can look forward to a tax free lump sum.

With nearly ten million more people automatically enrolled into pensions since 2012, there are even more people who are now set to benefit from this option.

Although many of these people only have tiny pension pots at the moment, they may be looking forward to a time when they have a bigger pot and the chance of a lump sum, and they would not thank a Chancellor who took it away.

At the other end of the age scale, there are those who are coming up to retirement for whom a tax free lump sum is a crucial part of their financial planning.

For example, there are many people who still have a balance to pay off on their mortgage, especially if they have an 'interest only' mortgage.

The tax free cash may have been earmarked for this purpose and it would be totally unacceptable if the rules were to change at the last minute.

Given that the Chancellor only has a majority in Parliament with the aid of the Democratic Unionist Party, only a handful of people on his own back benches voting against a Budget measure would see him lose the vote, and an attack on tax free cash would be sure to generate a rebellion.

If there were to be any changes, I think that they would be gradual, and therefore someone such as yourself who was about to draw their tax free cash would be extremely unlikely to be affected.

One possibility is that at some point there could be a limit on how much tax free cash you can draw.

This is an idea that is starting to be floated by 'think tanks' such as the Resolution Foundation who recently advocated a cap of just £42,000 on tax free lump sums.

This sort of figure would cause a political storm and simply will not happen in the short-term.

But you could imagine a future Chancellor, perhaps in a different government, introducing some sort of cap on tax free cash.

It would probably start relatively high and be set at such a level that it would affect relatively few people. But each year it might be gradually lowered until it made a significant difference.

This is, of course, all speculation. In the short term, I think that there is virtually no chance of a major change on tax free cash in the October 2018 Budget.

And even if there were, there would almost certainly have to be transitional arrangements to protect those who were already very advanced in their retirement planning.

Ultimately you will need to decide when you want to access your lump sum, but my own view would be that there is no need to rush to do so.

====== 917 ========

SHOULD I DELAY TAKING MY STATE PENSION TO GET BIGGER PAYOUTS LATER?

I have recently received a letter from the Department for Work and Pensions inviting me to take up my state pension as I approach my 65th birthday.

I know that I can delay taking up my state pension and in return get a higher amount the more years I delay it. I am assuming there is a downside (as there always is!) and all decisions of this type have to be weighed up.

Also, whether it is a state or employer pension scheme, everyone is running a deficit which will get worse as time passes if demographic/economic projections are anything to go by.

Waiting game: Is it worth putting off taking your state pension in exchange for higher payouts later?

I am really struggling to decide whether to delay taking my state pension because I can't figure out the downside.

Can you help? I am not looking for a recommendation just a steer to be able to work out whether I want to take downside risk.

SCROLL DOWN TO FIND OUT HOW TO ASK YOUR PENSION QUESTION

Steve Webb replies: As you rightly say, although you become entitled to draw a state pension once you reach state pension age you are not obliged to do so.

You have the option of taking it later and then receiving a higher regular amount.

Deferring your state pension is not as attractive as it used to be for those who reached pension age before 6 April 2016 (when more generous rules applied) but there may still be circumstances in which it is worth considering.

For those who choose not to claim their state pension at once, the rate payable is increased by 1 per cent for each nine weeks of deferral.

This means that if you put off claiming for a year, your pension rate will be enhanced by around 5.8 per cent once you start claiming. You will not get any increase if you defer for less than nine weeks

Steve Webb: Find out how to ask the former Pensions Minister a question about your retirement savings in the box below

Who might face pitfalls by deferring their state pension?

There are some people for whom deferring is almost certainly not a good idea.

These would be people on income-related benefits such as pension credit or help with rent or council tax.

During the period of deferral, you do not build up extra pension for any week in which you are getting pension credit.

In addition, once you did start receiving the pension, any additional rate of payment could be clawed back in whole or in part from your means-tested benefits, so it would probably represent a poor deal.

Who might benefit from delaying payments?

There are two groups in particular for whom deferring is worth thinking about.

The first is those who are planning to work on past state pension age. This is because any state pension you draw is added to your taxable income for the year.

If you are earning more than the tax-free personal allowance (currently £11,850 per year) then the whole of your state pension will be subject to income tax.

If your total taxable income goes above £46,350, then some of your state pension could even be taxed at 40 per cent.

By contrast, if you defer taking your state pension until you have stopped earning then all of your personal allowance of £11,850 will be available to be set against your state pension and other pensions, meaning you will probably pay less tax overall.

A second group of people for whom deferring might be attractive is those who expect to live a long time in retirement.

What is the triple lock? Rises in the state pension are presently calculated on the basis of something called the 'Triple Lock'. This means that payouts always increase by whatever is the the highest of inflation, average earnings or 2.5 per cent.

If you defer your pension for a year you are effectively taking a gamble that the extra amount you get each year on your state pension once you start drawing it will eventually more than offset the year you went without a pension.

As you get an extra 5.8 per cent for deferring, you would need to receive a pension for about 18 years to recover the money you missed in the first year, not taking account of the interest you could have earned on that money.

Given that the average 65-year-old man is likely to live to 86 according to official figures (see here) it is only those who are longer-lived on average who are likely to benefit most from deferral (apart from the taxation point noted above).

How will a delay affect future increases in your state pension?

Finally, it is worth being aware that the extra amount of state pension you receive for putting off taking your pension is treated in a slightly different way when it comes to future annual increases to take account of inflation.

Whereas your original pension amount is uprated at least by the growth in average earnings (and currently by the more generous ‘triple lock’ policy) the extra pension you receive for deferral is only uprated in line with price inflation.

This probably doesn’t make a huge difference to the calculation but it is something to be aware of.

You can find more information about deferring your state pension here.

How much is the state pension? The basic state pension is currently £125.95 a week. It is topped up by additional state pension entitlements - S2P and Serps - accrued during working years. The two-tier state system has changed for people retiring since 6 April 2016, when it was replaced by a new 'flat rate' state pension. This is currently worth £164.35 a week. People who have contracted out of S2P and Serps over the years and retire after April 2016 get less than the full new state pension. But they can fill gaps in unpaid and or underpaid National Insurance in previous years, and build up more qualifying years if they have enough time between now and state pension age. Workers needed to have 30 years of qualifying National Insurance contributions to get the old state pension, but they now need to have 35 years of contributions to get the new flat rate state pension. But even if you paid in full for a whole 35 years, if you contracted out for some years on top of that it might still reduce what you get. You can check your NI record here. This is Money

====== 918 ========

HOW MUCH CAN I SAVE IN A PENSION TAX-FREE AND WHAT IS THE LIFETIME ALLOWANCE?

How much can I save into a pension tax-free? I understand that the lifetime allowance is £1million, but how likely am I to hit that?

Please would you explain how the lifetime allowance operates and when is my defined contribution pot assessed against the LTA?

What is a so-called crystallisation event and is the pot measured at the first crystallisation event and when I'm 75, or also every time I take out funds?

And what is the allowance compared to? Just what remains in the pot or what's in the pot plus anything taken out?

SCROLL DOWN TO FIND OUT HOW TO ASK YOUR PENSION QUESTION

Saving for old age: How much can you put into a pension tax-free over your lifetime? (Stock image)

Steve Webb replies: There are two separate systems designed to limit the amount of pension tax relief that you can enjoy.

One is an annual limit on the amount you can put in to a pension each year, known as the annual allowance, which is currently £40,000.

The other is a lifetime limit on the amount you can build up (and draw out) which is known as the lifetime allowance or LTA. The current value of the LTA is £1.03million though this changes from year to year.

It's important to understand how both work when saving into a pension, so I will explain each in turn.

How does the annual allowance work?

The idea of an annual limit on how much you can put in is relatively straightforward. The cap includes the tax relief itself, so you have to factor that into the £40,000.

Also, the annual allowance cap has to correspond with your earnings in any particular tax year, so it is reduced in line with your income if that is less than £40,000.

You can roll over unused annual allowances for the past three tax years, and therefore make contributions of up to £160,000 in total.

But you must use up all your current year's allowance first, before you exploit previous ones.

Steve Webb: Find out how to ask the former Pensions Minister a question about your retirement savings in the box below

HMRC counts money that you and your employer have actually paid in to your pension during the year, and they add a figure to take account of the growth in value of any salary-related pension rights you may hold.

How does the lifetime allowance work?

Imposing a lifetime limit on the size of pot that stays within tax relief limits is much more complex.

For example, money invested in a pension pot will tend to go up and down over time.

If your pot size was close to the LTA and your investments did well one year then you could find yourself above the LTA, only to be back below the following year if the stock market fell back.

It would be messy and inefficient for the system to keep track of these movements, especially as the pension scheme member would not necessarily know the value of their investments at any point in time.

In order to make the system more practical, HMRC only tests your pension saving against the LTA either at age 75 (which is when you stop qualifying for tax relief on contributions) or at any point where you take money out of a pension as an income or a lump sum.

This is known as 'crystallising' your pension, and the points at which the calculation is undertaken are known in the jargon as 'benefit crystallisation events'.

How likely are you to hit £1million The lifetime allowance is imposed on a pension pot in total, so the money you pay in, the money your employer pays in, the tax relief you get and the growth it achieves all count towards this, writes Simon Lambert. To most people the idea of ending up with £1million in their pension sounds fanciful, but you don't need to be on an executive salary to risk hitting the limit. More of those working in well paid professional jobs over a 40-year career could conceivably hit the £1million limit than realise it. Someone who saved £500 a month into a pension over 40 years and achieved an average 6% annual return would end up with £996,000 - just shy of that limit. People are often advised to have 15 per cent of their salary going into a pension (including their contributions, their employer's and tax relief) - and £500 a month is £6,000 per year, or 15 per cent of a £40,000 salary. It is unlikely many people would start work on £40,000, but a sizeable number will rise above this level for a large chunk of their working life - thus making an average career salary of £40,000 feasible. A 6 per cent annual return after fees is ambitious, but while actual returns may prove lower, contributions may also be higher, particularly taking into account wage inflation and career progression. You can use our long-term savings calculator to put in your own figures and see how likely you might be to hit £1million. Savings calculator Work out how a lump sum or regular monthly savings would grow Lump sum £

and / or

Monthly saving £

Duration years

Annual interest rate %

Your savings will be worth: Check the best savings rates Find the top deals in our independent best-buy tables

When does HMRC calculate the LTA?

There is a long list of 'benefit crystallisation events' identified by HMRC when it will measure how much of the LTA you have used up.

Some of them are a bit complex but most of them are what you would expect. They include:

- When you take a quarter of your pension pot as a tax free lump sum

- When you use the remainder of your pension pot to buy an income for life or an 'annuity'

- When you start to draw a salary-related pension

- When you turn 75 with money left in your pension or drawdown account.

How does HMRC calculate the LTA?

To make the maths easy, consider someone who has built up £103,000 in a 'pot of money' pension and comes to retire.

Let us suppose that they first take a quarter of this as a tax-free lump sum of £25,750.

This is a 'benefit crystallisation event' so HMRC compares the £25,750 you have taken out with the LTA of £1,030,000 and works out what percentage of the LTA you have used up.

In this case the answer is 2.5 per cent.

Suppose that you also use the balance of your fund to buy an annuity. This is another 'benefit crystallisation event'.

Because you have spent £77,250 on an annuity, HMRC uses this figure and works out that this is another 7.5 per cent of your LTA used up.

These two events in total use up 10 per cent of your LTA. Only if you exceed 100 per cent of your LTA do you start to face tax charges.

When the event relates to a salary-related pension, the calculation is different.

Suppose you start to draw a salary-related pension of £5,150 per year. How would this be tested against your LTA? The answer is that HMRC would multiply your annual pension by a factor of 20, to give a value of £103,000.

As this is 10 per cent of the LTA, starting to draw this pension uses up another 10 per cent of your lifetime allowance.

You can find a plain English fact sheet about the LTA here and this includes a link to the more detailed HMRC regulations.

What happens if your pension payments breach annual or lifetime limits? If you put more than £40,000 in a year into your pension, you won't get any tax relief on any amount above that limit, writes This is Money. If your employer does it on your behalf, it has to levy your usual income tax rate on anything above the limit. The lifetime allowance is not a limit on how much can be paid into a pension, as savers can continue paying in above it. Any gains you make from investment growth over the years will count towards it. If you go over the limit, hefty tax charges will be levied when you retire. Any money above the level taken as income incurs an extra 25 per cent charge and as a lump sum it incurs a 55 per cent charge - this comes on top of normal income tax. This effectively makes paying into a pension above the lifetime allowance uneconomical, as any benefits built up are heavily penalised.

====== 919 ========

I AM BEING OFFERED AN ANNUITY RATE OF 25%: IS THIS TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE?

I have a question regarding two small pension pots I have out of four with LV=.

I am currently 51 years old and started these when I was in my early 20s. I paid in small premiums until my mid-30s.

When I got my annual statement the total value of the two policies was only around £22,000 and it shows on the statement that this would give me an income of around £600 per annum at age 65.

But when I contacted LV= they informed me that I can expect a guaranteed income of £5,500 plus bonuses of another £1,000 due to guaranteed annuity values at age 65.

Too good to be true? Will pension firm really pay £6,500 a year out of a £22,000 pension pot?

I rang back and questioned this and they informed me that this is correct.

My question is how is this possible? I have other pension pots with more than double the amount in but the expected income is nowhere near this amount.

The guy at LV= mentioned that's why they do not do these type of policies anymore.

SCROLL DOWN TO FIND OUT HOW TO ASK STEVE YOUR PENSION QUESTION

Steve Webb replies: It is not surprising that you are confused to be quoted such wildly differing pension amounts for pension pots of roughly the same size.

The main reason for this is that some of your policies have extremely valuable guarantees attached to them which I will describe in a moment.

It may help if we consider first the simple case of a standard ‘pot of money’ pension where you pay money in, it is invested and then you use the final pot to buy an income for life or an ‘annuity’.

What do annuity rates typically run at right now?

In the case of your pension pot worth £22,000, the company is giving you a figure for the annual pension they would pay you at 65, and they assume that this annual pension would increase each year in line with inflation – something called an ‘index-linked annuity’.

Steve Webb: Find out how to ask the former Pensions Minister a question about your retirement savings in the box below

The £600 figure means you would get an annual income at retirement of roughly 3 per cent of the value of the pot, which is not unusual for an index-linked annuity at today’s interest rates.

What guarantees might come attached that boost your annuity rate?

Some types of pension offer something more valuable than this, called a ‘guaranteed annuity rate’ or GAR.

When such a product was taken out perhaps a decade or two ago, the pension company offered an extra feature. This was to guarantee you a minimum annuity rate, regardless of what happened to interest rates subsequently.

Given that interest rates have plunged since these policies were sold, a guaranteed rate set back then is now extremely valuable.

It is not unusual for GAR rates to be in the high single figures (for example, 8 per cent or more) compared with a typical annuity rate at 65 of around 5 per cent today.

Note though that these apply for annuities which do not rise in line with inflation – so-called 'level' annuities.

Lots of policies were sold with these guarantees and they are now very expensive for pension providers to honour. For that reason they are no longer sold.

For the same reason, savers should be very wary of giving up these guarantees and cashing out the policy. Indeed, in the case of a promise worth more than £30,000 it would be mandatory to take financial advice before doing so.

What special guarantee applies in your case?

When we looked into the details of your policy which you kindly supplied, it emerged that you have an even more valuable type of guarantee.

Your pension provider is promising to pay you a guaranteed level of income regardless of current interest rates and regardless of the size of your pension pot.

This is very unusual and makes your policies especially valuable. Looking at the value of your pot and the size of your pension promise, you are in effect getting a level annuity rate of roughly 25 per cent!

You would only need to live for four years after taking this annuity to receive the full value of your pot, and if you live a long time could end up getting it again several times over.

Even though your annuity payouts would not rise with inflation, you are sitting on a really good deal here.

As you have correctly assumed, you could not get anything like this on the open market today and you would want to think very hard indeed before giving it up simply to access the cash in your fund.

What does LV= say?

Andrew Gilbert, LV= head of products, says: These policies do not include a guaranteed annuity rate but rather they offer a guaranteed minimum level of income which would be paid every year if an annuity was taken with LV= at the original selected retirement date.

This annuity value was set based on the age of the individual, contribution and length of term when the policy was taken out and is independent of the current value of the fund.

====== 920 ========

MY WIFE EARNS £7K SO IS SHE LOSING PENSION TOP-UPS PAID TO BETTER-OFF?

This week, This is Money columnist Steve Webb tackles a question about a tax quirk that deprives low earners of pension cash automatically handed to better paid workers.

The Government recently announced it plans to review how pension tax top-ups are paid to savers, following an outcry over what has been called a 'secret scandal' and 'indefensible' by critics.

Free pension top-ups: A reader whose wife earns around £7,000 a year working in a school asks for an explanation of a confusing technicality that could deprive her of pension cash

I've been reading the articles on This is Money about low paid people not receiving tax relief.

Some articles state people who earn £10,000-£11,850 are affected. Other articles suggest anyone earning less than £11,850 does not qualify for this 20 per cent tax top up on pension contributions. So I am confused.

My wife is 56 and earns approximately £7,000 per annum working part time in a school.

We have savings and if possible would like to pay £3,000 per annum for a few years to then receive 20 per cent tax relief top-up for her.

This would represent an excellent savings plan for a few years until we retire.

Can my wife start a personal pension and receive a 20 per cent tax top up from our chosen pension provider.

Steve Webb replies: It is not surprising that you are confused!

Whether or not lower earners get tax relief on their pension contributions depends both on how much they earn and the sort of pension scheme of which they are a member.

Steve Webb: Find out how to ask the former Pensions Minister a question about your retirement savings in the box below

This issue has become a lot more important in recent years as automatic enrolment has brought millions more people on modest earnings into pension saving, so the need to sort out this mess is getting more pressing.

The first figure that you mention, £11,850, is the income tax personal allowance. This is the amount of money you can earn each year before you have to pay income tax.

The £10,000 figure is the earnings level above which firms are obliged by law to enrol their employees into a workplace pension.

Whilst auto-enrolment has brought lots of new people into pensions, there were already people earning below £10,000 per year who had pensions (for example, many part-time public sector workers) and the issue that you raise applies to people under £10,000 as well as those over £10,000.

You might assume that people earning above the tax allowance of £11,850 (and hence paying income tax) could benefit from tax relief on their pension contributions, whilst those earning less cannot.

Unfortunately it is not quite as straightforward as that.

The complication is that there are two ways in which pension schemes administer tax relief and one method only gives tax relief to taxpayers whilst the other gives tax relief to all scheme members. Let us consider each in turn.

A lot of traditional occupational pension schemes deliver tax relief on pension contributions through the paypacket, a method called the 'net pay arrangement'.

Low paid workers deprived of up to £720 a year in free pension cash Hundreds of thousands of the poorest workers are being denied free Government pension cash that is automatically handed to the better-paid due to a tax technicality. This is Money covered the story here, while pensions campaigner Ros Altmann has spearheaded efforts to persuade the Government to address the issue. A Department for Work and Pensions spokeswoman recently promised it would review how pension tax top-ups are paid to savers, following the outcry.

The way they do this is by deducting your pension contribution from your wage before the tax is worked out.

The effect of this is to cut your tax bill because your taxable income has been reduced.

For example, suppose that you earn £13,000 per year and want to put £100 into a pension. Your employer will deduct £100 from your pre-tax income and that money will go into your pension.

When HRMC comes along to work out your income tax, they only tax you as if you were earning £12,900. This reduces your taxable income by £100 and your tax bill by 20 per cent of this or £20.

This is fine if you are a taxpayer, but is a problem if you are not.

Consider a second worker at the same firm who earns £11,000 per year and also wants to put £100 into a pension. The employer will deduct the £100 from the worker's pre tax pay and this money will go into their pension.

But because the worker earns less than £11,850, they would not have been paying income tax in the first place. Whether they are taxed on earnings of £11,000 or £10,900 (the wage minus the pension contribution) makes no difference – their tax bill is still zero.

In short, in this arrangement, the non-taxpayer gets no tax benefit from saving in a pension.

There is however a different way of delivering tax relief which gives a tax bonus to everyone in the scheme, not just taxpayers.

This method is known as 'relief at source' or RAS and is often used by group personal pension arrangements and also some big workplace schemes such as the Government's NEST scheme.

Under the RAS arrangement, you pay your pension contributions out of your take-home pay and the scheme then claims tax relief on your behalf.

Did you receive Family Credit between 1995 and 2001? If you got either this benefit or Working Families Tax Credit at any time during those years, it counted towards your state pension and could give it a boost. Steve Webb would like to hear from anyone who got these credits back then, whether you are already drawing a state pension or are yet to do so. You can write to Steve at pensionquestions@thisismoney.co.uk and we will forward your messages. Please put FAMILY CREDIT in the subject line.

To take our earlier example, our two employees on £13,000 and £11,000 a year would each put £80 out of their take-home pay into their pension.

The pension scheme then contacts HMRC and asks them to top up that contribution with basic rate tax relief.

HMRC adds £20 to the pension pot of each worker, making a total of £100.

As you will see, in this case the non taxpayer is still benefiting from tax relief.

They put money in to their pension at a cost to them of £80 but £100 ends up in their pension.

It is, unfortunately, a bit of a lottery as to which method of delivering tax relief is used by your workplace scheme.

But anyone who is unsure should certainly ask their employer's personnel or HR department (if they have one) how things work with their scheme.

If you feel you are losing out you could ask your employer to consider whether to use a different pension arrangement so that you benefit from tax relief.

Regarding your wife's specific situation, in principle she should be able to take out a personal pension in the way you describe and receive tax relief, even though she is a non taxpayer.

This is assuming that she doesn't have the opportunity of joining the Teachers' Pension Scheme.

That operates a net pay system so she wouldn't get the tax relief, but she would benefit from the generous employer contribution.

====== 921 ========

HOW CAN TWO VASTLY DIFFERENT SIZED PENSIONS HAVE SAME TRANSFER VALUES?

I am wondering if you can help and explain how the following can happen as I don't seem to be getting anywhere with the two pension companies involved.

My husband and I both have a work pension.

Mine was paid into from 1987 to 2003. I paid in only £3,000 in total for the whole period of nearly 16 years and it is due to pay me out about £5,000 per year when I retire in 2031. Transfer value is £225,000.

Perplexing question: How can two vastly different sized pensions have the same transfer values? (Stock image)

My husband pays into his about £6,000 and his company £11,000 per year and he has held it for 15 years. The amount he is due to get per year is £14,000 (today's value if he doesn't pay any more in) retiring in 2032. Transfer value is £223,000.

We have been trying to work out why the transfer values are so similar but the payouts per year so different – really hope you can shed some light on it because it is driving us both mad.

SCROLL DOWN TO FIND OUT HOW TO ASK YOUR PENSION QUESTION

Steve Webb replies: I can entirely understand why you are surprised to be offered roughly the same amount of money for two pensions which seem to be so different. I hope that I can help to clarify.

There are a number of factors which can affect the value of a salary-related pension.

What is a salary-related pension? Also known as defined benefit or final salary, this type of pension provides a guaranteed income after retirement until you die. They are typically generous, with inflation protection and death benefits for spouses. Most private sector employers have now replaced them with stingier and riskier defined contribution pensions. These take contributions from both employer and employee and invest them to provide a pot of money at retirement, but the worker bears all the investment risk. This is Money

It's not necessarily about what you pay in, as you have discovered, because even if your employer made contributions to your pension that you haven't mentioned, you appear to have put in substantially less than your husband over the years.

The amount payable at retirement is clearly an important factor, but it is far from the only one.

Some of the others are as follows:

1) Pension age

Some pensions are payable at 60, some at 65 and some at other ages.

It clearly makes a huge difference to the value of a pension if it has to be paid for an extra five years, so the transfer value offered will tend to be larger the lower the pension age in the scheme.

2) Annual increases

Although the law specifies a minimum level of annual pension increases through retirement, many pension schemes offer more generous annual increases.

For example, the legal minimum doesn't require any inflation protection for the pension you built up before 1997, but more generous schemes will provide inflation protection for those years of service.

Similarly, some schemes provide an uplift in line with inflation as measured by the Consumer Prices Index but others use inflation as measured by the usually higher Retail Prices Index.

You will generally be offered a higher transfer value for a pension which benefits from generous indexation.

Did you receive Family Credit between 1995 and 2001? If you got either this benefit or Working Families Tax Credit at any time during those years, it counted towards your state pension and could give it a boost. Steve Webb would like to hear from anyone who got these credits back then, whether you are already drawing a state pension or are yet to do so. You can write to Steve at pensionquestions@thisismoney.co.uk and we will forward your messages. Please put FAMILY CREDIT in the subject line.

3) Provision for surviving spouses

As with protection for inflation, there is a statutory minimum level of provision for widows/widowers which schemes have to offer, but many offer more.

If one scheme offers a generous pension to widows and another offers the legal minimum, the transfer value on the more generous scheme will be higher, other things being equal.

4) Funding level

As well as the generosity of the benefits, the transfer value you are offered will reflect some other factors, including the funding level of the scheme.

If the scheme is running a deficit - so that the amount of money put aside is not expected to be enough to meet all the future pension promises - the scheme is allowed to make a reduction in the transfer value that they offer you.

If they did not do this then lots of people might transfer out and get 100 per cent of the value of their benefits, and this could worsen the position of the people who are left behind.

Steve Webb: Find out how to ask the former Pensions Minister a question about your retirement savings in the box below

5) Investment choices

The key point to understand is that in offering you a transfer value, the scheme is thinking about how much it would cost it to pay you the benefits you have been promised.

As well as the generosity of the benefits on offer, this will also depend on how the scheme's money is invested.

You may find that a 'mature' scheme with lots of pensioner members and few working age members has most of its money invested in low-risk, low-return assets.

This may mean that providing for future benefits is relatively expensive.

As a result, they may be quite pleased to see you leave and will offer you a relatively high transfer value.

Ask your scheme how transfer value was calculated

Working out transfer values is done within a legal framework but there is a lot of scope for discretion in the assumptions that the scheme makes, so there isn't a single right answer as to what your pension is worth.

In some cases genuine mistakes are made and you should certainly ask for a written explanation of how the transfer value has been calculated.

But I hope that this reply gives you some further clues as to why your and your husband have been offered roughly the same amount for what appear to be very different benefits.

====== 922 ========

SHOULD I MOVE MY PENSION POTS TO A NEW FIRM CHARGING HIGHER FEES?

I am a 51-year-old in full time employment paying £200 a month into a stakeholder pension, which is now worth about £24,000.

In addition I have two other pots worth £12,000 and £110,000 and some benefits in a final salary scheme with another company.

I know I should be reviewing my pension arrangements every year through an independent financial adviser but I am confused.

'I need advice about the advice!' Financial advisers keep telling me to put all my pension pots with a new provider charging higher fees

They all immediately offer to take my pensions which are with firms with well-known established names and switch them to another provider with a vast team of financial experts to manage them, with the accompanying higher fees.

My problem is that I am unsure whether this is the right approach. I expected the financial advisers to look at the funds I could switch to within my existing pensions. Is there a reason they don't do this?

Am I missing a trick here and should I hand over these three pensions via the latest financial adviser I have met with, or another provider, and pay higher fees for hopefully higher returns?

I feel reluctant to do this and now feel I need advice about the advice!

What happens if my financial adviser ceases trading? What if the expected returns don't materialise or are eaten up by fees? Could I then take the money and put it back with the big pension providers I am with now?

Steve Webb: Find out how to ask the former Pensions Minister a question about your retirement savings in the box below

I intend to work until 65 and clearly I need to grow my pension pots. Any thoughts would be gratefully appreciated. Incidentally, the pot I am currently paying into has grown by 43 per cent over the last five years.

SCROLL DOWN TO FIND OUT HOW TO ASK YOUR PENSION QUESTION

Steve Webb replies: You are right to ask searching questions before agreeing to move your money between different pension arrangements, especially if the new arrangement involves paying higher fees.

Paying more will sometimes be the right answer if you are clearly getting better value or an additional service, but the onus is on someone who wants you to pay higher charges to demonstrate that they can justify these extra costs.

To think this through, it is worth understanding that there are different types of financial adviser and different types of pension charge.

Independent vs restricted advice

With regard to advisers, the main distinction is between 'independent' financial advisers (IFAs) and 'restricted' advisers. Both are business structures regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.

An 'independent' financial adviser is someone who will advise you as to what you should do with your money and will then search the market for the right product and the right provider to meet your needs.

A 'restricted' adviser should tell you at the start that they will select products from a restricted range, and this may include providers with whom the adviser has a commercial relationship.

Is your work pension up to scratch? We explain how to find out if your retirement savings are in duff investment funds here. Our six-step guide to carrying out an annual healthcheck on your investments is here.

Proponents of 'restricted' advice would say that the adviser can focus on a narrower range of providers and potentially negotiate better terms for their clients as a result.

Critics of restricted advice will point out that in many cases there is a commercial relationship between the adviser and the product provider (eg the adviser firm is owned by the provider) and that there is a risk that the adviser will opt for the linked provider rather than another one in the market which might be better for the client.

It is worth stressing that the Financial Conduct Authority allows both forms of advice, but it does insist that restricted advisers are transparent about the way in which they operate.

In your case, if advisers often want to move your funds from their existing home to a new home it will be in part because as restricted advisers they have a set of products that they use and they are familiar with, and they may argue that they will be able to secure you a good deal compared with the products you are currently using.

Ongoing vs one-off advice

Another thing to be aware of is that there are many different sorts of fees and charges and it is important to be clear what you are paying for.

When you take out a financial product, you pay a fee to the provider of that product which is usually a percentage of the money that they are managing for you.

But when you use a financial adviser you are also paying the adviser for their time. Some advisers simply charge a fixed fee (eg an hourly rate) for advice and any ongoing charge is simply the product fee.

But many advisers will charge an ongoing advice fee which will be a percentage of the size of your pension funds.

Those who support this model of ongoing charging will say that financial advice is very valuable and that a small percentage of your funds each year will pay for a regular review of your financial situation.

For example, as you get older you may want to think about your options about retirement, about the possibility of reaching tax relief limits, about the financial needs of other family members if something were to happen to you and so forth.

The ongoing advice fee you pay doesn’t necessarily mean you will get a better return on your investments but it might mean your financial affairs are better organised and planned.

A sceptic would say that an adviser has an incentive to get you to move all of your money out of your existing arrangements into investment funds that they (or a commercial partner) manage because they then get a bigger fee.

One option, if you are concerned about potentially higher charges if you move your money, would be to find an adviser who will simply advise you for a flat fee. The amount of remuneration they get will not depend on where the money ends up.

You can also specifically ask an independent adviser to look at the investment fund options available inside your existing pension schemes, and whether it is a better deal just to switch them up rather than transfer out.

Bear in mind that if you are currently in a scheme's main 'default' fund, that is probably invested in a relatively simple way to match the performance of the markets as a whole.

Tracker or active funds? Trackers only match index performance but are cheap to own, while active fund managers pick investments to outdo the market but often underperform despite charging a lot more. Read more here about the tracker vs active debate. This is Money

So, if you move into other actively managed funds that try to outperform markets - whether they are within your existing schemes or not - this will involve paying higher charges.

What happens if your adviser goes bust?

You asked what happens if the adviser goes bust. In general, there is a separation between the adviser’s business and the product where your funds are held.

Whether the individual adviser is there or not, your funds are still with the financial institution with which you saved, and most regulated investments are covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme if those institutions get into trouble.

In terms of reversing things, as long as there are no 'exit penalties' on the new products, and as long as the old products you were in before were still taking new money, you could in principle move your money back if you were unhappy with how things worked out.

Most financial advisers will do their best to recommend the right strategy for you.

But if you are being asked to pay higher fees and charges, perhaps particularly for ongoing advice or for claims of better investment performance, you should certainly seek clear information about what you will be getting for your money.

====== 923 ========

LATEST NEWS HEADLINES

Camp Fire death toll reaches 84 - as forecasters predict more rain for the holiday weekend to help firefighters extinguish the last of Northern California wildfires - which could increase the risk of LANDSLIDES

CHICO, Calif. (AP) - The Latest on California wildfires (all times local):7 p.m.Authorities say there has been one more fatality in the Camp wildfire,...

====== 924 ========

MOST POPULAR NEWS STORIES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 925 ========

WHAT'S THE BEST WAY TO GIVE TO CHARITY? HOW TO PICK A CHARITY OR CAUSE

Millions of Britons give to good causes every year and trust one of the 180,000 or so charities in the UK to use our money to make a difference.

But how can we give to make sure our cash is having an impact and that the charities we choose are successfully turning it into a social or environmental change?

On this episode of the Big Money Questions, Caroline Fiennes has the answers.

Caroline is director of Giving Evidence, which encourages and enables giving based on sound evidence.

She talks through how to pick a cause or charity, why you shouldn’t worry about ‘administrative costs’, and tips for what else you can do if you want to help but don’t have the money.

====== 926 ========

WHAT IS INHERITANCE TAX AND HOW DO PEOPLE AVOID PAYING IT?

Rising numbers of estates are subject to inheritance tax every year and increasingly even those who don’t consider themselves wealthy find they are affected by it.

But what is it and how does it work?

On this episode of the Big Money Questions, Wealth Club founder Alex Davies explains what it is and how it works.

He explains who has to pay and when, and how it is calculated – all of the nitty-gritty.

He also talks through the ways in which people avoid paying it, from investing in small businesses, to making regular gifts, to shovelling money into a pension.

Alex also shares what the £5billion or so sum that is collected every year is used to pay for.

====== 927 ========

WHAT IS AN INVESTMENT TRUST? FIDELITY’S ALEX DENNY EXPLAINS

Investment trusts have been around 150 years and some of them increasing their dividend payments for over half a century.

But what are they are what they good for?

On this episode of the Big Money Questions show, Alex Denny, head of investment trusts at Fidelity International has the answers.

He gives a back-to-basics guide to how they work and how they can be a good way of spreading investment risk.

Alex also explains how you can buy them, what they cost to invest in and who they are good for.

====== 928 ========

HOW TO INVEST TO HELP OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS AND MAKE MONEY

Millions of us are making changes to our everyday routines to make our lifestyles more sustainable.

Increasing numbers are rejecting single-use coffee cups, or use canvas instead of plastic bags, or making a concerted effort to recycle more.

But what about using our invested cash to help out as well – with an eye on good returns.

Make a change: As well as changing our habits as consumers, we can also make decisions as investors to help us live more sustainably

On this episode of the Big Money Questions Jon Forster, co-portfolio manager of Impax Environmental Markets, talks us through environmental markets.

He talks through the types of companies that are tackling some of humanities biggest environmental issues, from the biodegradable packaging manufacturers to the electric car creators.

He explains where he thinks there are likely to be big areas of growth in the future, the obstacles we are likely to face, and where innovation is coming from.

====== 929 ========

AD MAN RORY SUTHERLAND'S TIPS ON GETTING MOST ENJOYMENT OUT OF MONEY

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

Can you ever save money buying expensive groceries or earmarking a pot of money just for taking taxis?

In some cases yes, according to ad man Rory Sutherland.

The Ogilvy vice chairman and Spectator columnist has some unusual tips for getting the most value and enjoyment out of money while spending as little as possible.

‘There’s an argument for not skimping too much on your grocery bill,’ he explains. ‘If the contents of your fridge lookslike something from 1970s Warsaw you’re going to end up getting more takeaways and eating out quite a lot – if you’ve got a reasonably extravagant-looking fridge maybe less so.’

Living the dream: Rory shares his tips on money and enjoyment

In this way you could come out even or even save by spending a little more on groceries.

In this episode of the Big Money Questions, Rory gives his offbeat tips on what to spend money on – and what it’s worth scrimping on.

After all, it's easy to think of the ways your life would be happier with more money, but what about ways to bring you greater enjoyment from the money you do have?

For example, he suggests buying the cheapest broadband often doesn’t pay in the long run.

‘If you’re paying the bare minimum then you’re probably making that company about 50p profit every month,’ he says. ‘Now that’s okay until something goes wrong and it’s going to cost £50 to fix it. The company making 50p a month from you will essentially look at you and think ‘well that’s the next ten years of profit gone, the best thing to do is dump this customer' and abandon them.

'Someone making £5 a month profit from you is going to look at your future value, your future revenue stream and they’re going to sort your problem out and they’re going to do it quickly because they don’t want to lose you. Generally it can pay to be tolerably generous to suppliers.’

Watch the video below for more of Rory’s tips, including how to save money on designer shoes and expensive cars, why it pays to cultivate eccentric tastes and a love of architecture, and the value of gratitude – especially when directed at McDonald’s, Premier Inn, Starbucks… and anaesthetic.

====== 930 ========

WHAT IS AN ETF? WE EXPLAIN EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS AND HOW THEY WORK

The ETF market is worth trillions of pounds and they are still increasing in popularity among people looking for low-cost ways of investing.

But what on earth are they?

On this episode of the Big Money Questions, Jason Xavier, head of EMEA capital markets at Franklin Templeton, explains what they are, how they work, why you might want a few in your portfolio and their downsides.

====== 931 ========

OFFICE OF TAX SIMPLIFICATION'S ANGELA KNIGHT ON COMPLEX TAX

Why can’t we just have a massive red-tape bonfire and make the tax system simpler for everyone?

Stories are always emerging about the ridiculous quirks of the tax system. There’s the debate over whether Jaffa Cakes are a cake or a biscuit – because they’d be subject to different levels of tax depending on which one it is. And the amount of VAT on gingerbread varies depending on whether or not they’ve got chocolate eyes or chocolate boots.

On this episode of the Big Money Questions, chair of the Office of Tax Simplification Angela Knight answers the big question.

She explains why things are so complicated, how easy it would be to just strip it all right back, and what a difference it could make if we did.

She also explains that technology such as apps could be used to make the system appear simpler to individuals and small businesses even if the underlying rules are not. For example, what if there was an app for different types of small business, from hairdressers to mechanics.

She also looks at the complexity of buy-to-let – and comes up with a neat solution.

And she addresses the ‘buggeration factor’ in the tax system, which might put otherwise honest people off doing the right thing – and what we can do about it.

====== 932 ========

MIDAS SHARE TIPS: TRY THE 'MILLIONAIRE FACTORY' GLENCORE

It was dubbed the 'Millionaire Factory' when it floated on the stock exchange in 2011 for making hundreds of commodities traders wealthy beyond their wildest dreams.

But Glencore, the FTSE 100 mining and trading giant which deals in everything from metals to grain and wheat, has struggled to deliver the same riches for shareholders.

The Switzerland-based firm, run by chief executive Ivan Glasenberg, has never lived up to the hype surrounding its stock market listing – at the time London's biggest ever – that turned the mercurial South African into a billionaire overnight.

Liquid asset: Copper is mining and trading giant Glencore’s biggest earner

Glencore might not be a household name, but the copper, coal, zinc, cobalt, and nickel it digs out of the ground and sells around the world feeds us, keeps us warm, and is used in the electronic devices we are glued to. And its shares could be about to power up, too.

It floated at £5.30 back in 2011, and a year later made the huge takeover of Xstrata, the mining firm run by Sir Mick Davis, the chief executive and co-treasurer of the Conservative Party.

However, the shares collapsed to well below £1 in 2015 when China, the world's fastest growing superpower which was hoovering up metals to fuel its splurge on skyscrapers and roads, showed signs of slowing growth.

The dramatic fall in metals prices, particularly copper, Glencore's biggest earner, hit the company hard. The company was forced to go cap in hand to shareholders to raise £6.7 billion to ease the burden of its huge debts.

Reassured by its healthier balance sheet and rising metals prices, the shares have recovered to £2.97½, but that is still nearly half the float price. That said, the company is one of Britain's biggest dividend payers so the share price is not everything.

With a dividend yield of over 5 per cent, comfortably covered by its profits, it is a staple of pension funds across the country. That payout is also a nice little earner for Glasenberg, who has pocketed around £180 million this year in dividends.

Mining giant: Glencore is not a household name, but the copper, coal, zinc, cobalt and nickel it digs up feeds us, keeps us warm, and is used in electronic devices we are glued to

Now, Glasenberg appears to be eyeing the exit after more than 30 years at the firm. He has reportedly been telling shareholders he will step down in three to five years' time.

He'll be 62 in January and it's a relentless job flying around to world to visit the company's mines, meet trading partners and court shareholders – albeit in a corporate jet.

The word in the City is that Glasenberg wants to get the share price back up to where it was in 2011 before heading off into the sunset. If he succeeds, that would be a more than decent return for shareholders from here – a near-80 per cent rise, in fact.

The other rumour in the Square Mile is that Glasenberg is fed up with the company's share price performance and would like to take Glencore private.

A quarter of the company is already owned by Glasenberg and other senior managers and the Qataris. If he did take that route, he would be forced to offer investors more than the market price for the shares.

One thing that might hold back the share price is the spectre of an investigation by the US Department of Justice into bribery and corruption allegations.

Analysts at investment firm Jefferies say the probe into its activities in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Nigeria and Venezuela could take as long as five years. It could lead to hefty fines.

MIDAS VERDICT: Glencore was in a hole three years ago, but Glasenberg has listened to shareholders by cutting its enormous debt pile and whipping the company into shape. The shadow of a US investigation could hinder the shares, but with Brexit uncertainty hitting UK-focused stocks, it’s a good time to buy shares in a company with no exposure to the UK economy. The canny Glasenberg might have his critics, but don’t bet against him turning things around. With metals prices slowly recovering, the shares are worth a buy.

Traded on: Main market Ticker: GLEN Contact: 020 7629 3800

====== 933 ========

MIDAS SHARE TIPS: HOLD YOUR NERVE AS MARKET ROBOTS GIVE UK SHARES A HAMMERING AFTER BREXIT TALKS

Thursday was a torrid day in the markets. Almost every share with heavy exposure to the British economy fell as investors panicked over the sight of Theresa May's Brexit deal appearing to unravel.

The political tumult quickly translated into market turmoil as some of Britain's best known names were trading in the red.

Royal Bank of Scotland fell almost 10 per cent, Marks & Spencer fell 5 per cent and even housebuilders such as Barratt and Taylor Wimpey, which have become bankers to investors thanks to rising house prices and government subsidies, fell 7 per cent.

Turmoil: Almost every share with heavy exposure to the British economy fell as investors panicked over the sight of Theresa May's Brexit deal appearing to unravel

These are big falls for firms worth billions of pounds.

The uncertainty caused by ministerial resignations and the lack of support for the Prime Minister's proposed deal was met by investors in ruthless mood pressing the sell button.

When share prices fall in such magnitude, automated trading systems – robots that trade automatically based on market movements – crank into gear, which triggers more selling. For this reason, markets today are more volatile than ever.

Investors who have bought British stocks need not panic. Professional traders buy and sell shares on sentiment, according to their mood and emotional reaction to the news.

But stock market punters should always trade on so-called fundamentals.

Is the concept of the business good? Does the chief executive know what he or she is doing? Are sales and profits going in the right direction? Is the dividend yield sound? Is there potential for growth?

If the answer to these sorts of questions is a resounding 'yes' then investors have no reason to sell.

In fact, earlier this week, analysts at the bank Credit Suisse told clients to start buying UK shares such as Premier Inn owner Whitbread and Thomas Cook.

They won't be telling them anything different just because the shares came under pressure on Thursday.

MIDAS VERDICT: Don't panic. Markets are fickle and will always seesaw based on the short-term views of traders.

But if you've bought into a British stock for its long-term potential, nothing changed last week. Now is the time to hold your nerve!

====== 934 ========

MIDAS SHARE TIPS: BASE RESOURCES IS UNDERVALUED

Titanium dioxide makes stuff white. It is in toothpaste, sun cream, moisturiser and make-up so most people come into contact with it every single day.

And it is a key ingredient for industry too, used in paint, paper, ink and a host of other products.

Across the world, the market for titanium dioxide is valued at almost £11 billion and growing by about 5 per cent annually.

Base Resources is a successful operator in the sector yet the shares, at 13¾p, are undervalued. This should change over the coming year, as new projects come on stream and the stock market recognises Base’s long-term potential.

Bright prospect: Toothpaste uses minerals mine by Base Resources

Titanium dioxide is made from several different minerals and Base produces two of the most common, rutile and ilmenite. Operating from a mine in Kenya, Base also produces zircon, a mineral used in the production of ceramics, such as tiles.

The company was founded ten years ago by Tim Carstens, an Australian qualified accountant, who has spent his entire career in the mining business. In 2010, Carstens acquired the Kenyan site, based in Kwale, a small town near the coast.

At the time, Kwale was a work in progress but Carstens brought the mine into production on time and on budget and today it is one of the lowest cost operators in its field.

Last month, the company announced record quarterly production figures and said it would deliver about 90,000 tons of rutile, 430,000 tons of ilmenite and 35,000 tons of zircon in the year to June 2019.

Like most commodities, rutile, ilmenite and zircon are traded in dollars and Base works on an average price for the three of just over $350 (£270) per ton.

The company’s cost of production is around $100 per ton so it is highly profitable and expected to make almost $117 million in the current year, rising to $128 million in the year to June 2020.

Base benefits from a focus on community relations, as well. The Kwale site employs around 1,000 people, virtually all of them are Kenyan and Carsten invests heavily in training and development.

As a result, people are proud to work for Base and it has one of the best health and safety records in the industry.

Several wealth-enhancing schemes have been undertaken too, including a cotton project, which now involves 3,500 farmers, exporting cloth to Australia.

Carsten’s community focus has created goodwill both locally and with the Kenyan authorities. It has also stood Base in good stead with a new mining project, in Madagascar.

While Kwale is highly profitable, the mine is expected to run out of steam by the mid to late-2020s. The Madagascar site, acquired late last year, has a much longer shelf life. It is expected to deliver annual production up to 800,000 tons of ilmenite and 75,000 tons of rutile and zircon for several decades.

The site is not yet in production but plans are afoot to start mining by the end of 2021, using a combination of cash from Kwale and bank debt.

Midas verdict: Base Resources’ share price has suffered on three counts. Investors are worried that the Kwale mine has a limited life span. They are worried about how the Madagascar mine will be funded and they want to know more about how profitable it will be once it moves into production.

All these concerns are likely to be addressed in the next six months or so, when Base updates the market about Kwale’s life expectancy and the dynamics around the Madagascar project. The information is widely expected to be positive.

Most City analysts believe Base shares should be trading at more than 30p by the end of next year, more than double the current price, and big institutional investors are keen on the stock as well. The shares are a buy.

> Base Resources: Check the share price and company data

====== 935 ========

MIDAS SHARE TIPS: ONLINE SHOPPING IS BOOMING - SO TRY WAREHOUSE

Chancellor Philip Hammond may be making a brave effort to save Britain's high streets but consumer habits are not on his side.

According to recent forecasts, online shopping will account for 32 per cent of retail sales within the next five years, compared with around 16 per cent today.

The shift does not just mean that giants such as Amazon are growing bigger, while small firms suffer. Many are thriving from the e-commerce boom.

Thriving: Warehouse REIT's sites have hundreds of tenants – including Amazon

One such company used to sell garden furniture, primarily to stores such as B&Q, Homebase and garden centres.

Forced to fight over prices and wait months to be paid, the boss was subject to the whims and wishes of big retail customers and, in 2010, he almost went bust.

Today, he sells bean bags on Amazon and eBay directly to consumers. He receives payment before shipping orders, he does not have to haggle over price and business is booming.

This story is repeated across the country and these newly successful firms need space to make, store and distribute their goods. Warehouse REIT provides that space.

The shares are 96.5p and are likely to rise over the next five years and beyond, accompanied by generous dividend payments.

Warehouse REIT specialises in urban warehouses, located close to city centres and generally split into a number of units. Tenants include hundreds of small, up-and-coming e-commerce firms, as well as major retailers such as Boots, Asda and indeed Amazon.

Warehouse has 92 sites in total and more than 850 tenants. The properties are dotted round the country and most are little larger than a football pitch.

These estates are nothing like the huge out-of-town distribution centres – three or four storeys high and the size of ten pitches – used by retail giants to store, stack and process online goods.

Instead, Warehouse REIT's sites are primarily used to transport goods directly to consumers – known in the trade as last-mile delivery.

This is a fast-growing sector of the market, as online shoppers increasingly expect their parcels to be delivered within 24 hours of purchase.

One site in Newport, for example, is let to Amazon. Every night, lorries pitch up from the big box distribution centres, their goods are unloaded and piled into white vans before dawn.

These vans drive round South Wales, ensuring that local customers receive their Amazon purchases by nightfall. Some tenants operate in completely different fields, however, including Edinburgh University, which uses a Warehouse site to store artwork.

Warehouse is run by Andrew Bird, a property expert with 25 years' experience under his belt. Bird believes that smaller, centrally located warehouses have particularly good growth potential and the statistics back him up.

Demand for space is growing, supply is limited and there are relatively few specialists in this sector. Encouragingly too, Bird has put serious money into the business.

Warehouse floated on Aim in September 2017, raising £150 million at 100p a share. Today, he and his team have more than £17 million of their own cash invested in the business and they are determined to make it grow.

The group did well in the first few months. They acquired new properties and the share price rose. Last summer, however, a major transaction that they were working on – valued at more than £400 million – was leaked to the stock market.

Warehouse shares were suspended for six weeks and ultimately, Bird walked away from the deal.

The saga spooked some shareholders and the stock fell to 92p. However, it has been moving ahead since then and should continue to gain ground.

A dividend of 6p is forecast for the year to March 31, so the shares are yielding 6.25 per cent and the payout is expected to rise steadily over the next few years.

MIDAS VERDICT: Bird and his team are determined to create a business with assets of more than £500 million over the next five years. However, they are only prepared to buy properties if the numbers stack up, as the recent leaked transaction proves. Ambition and caution are a good combination, particularly as Warehouse REIT operates in a sector with real, long-term growth prospects. At 96.5p, the shares are a buy.

Traded on: Aim Ticker: WHR Contact: warehousereit.co.uk or 020 3102 9465

====== 936 ========

MIDAS SHARE TIPS UPDATE: LOK'NSTORE REAPS BENEFITS OF CHANGING NORMS

Lok'nStore is another company reaping the benefits of changing consumer and business norms. Founded by chief executive Andrew Jacobs in 1995, Lok'nStore owns and operates self-storage units, with 29 stores up and running and a further 13 in the pipeline.

Midas recommended the shares at 307.5p in 2015. Today, they are 415.5p and City analysts think they are worth more than 600p.

In America, there are 9.3 square feet of self-storage space per person. Here, there is less than 0.7 square foot. US trends often wend their way to Britain and this is likely to be no exception.

People increasingly use self-storage because they have too much stuff and need somewhere to put it while they save for bigger homes. Companies use self-storage as a flexible way of keeping goods. Some use the sites to run small online businesses as well.

Whatever the reason, self-storage is a growing sector and Lok'nStore is doing well. Annual results posted last week showed a 34 per cent increase in profits to £5.3 million for the year to July 31, and a 10 per cent rise in the dividend to 11p.

The numbers should continue to rise, particularly given that Jacobs plans to open so many new stores over the next few years – each site carefully chosen to accommodate local demand. The units have changed as well as the firm has focused on modern, attractive, purpose-built properties.

MIDAS VERDICT: Jacobs founded Lok'nStore more than 20 years ago, he remains deeply committed to the business and still owns 18 per cent of the shares. The company has upped its game in recent times but it is valued less highly on the stock market than its larger peers. That should change over the next couple of years, taking the stock price higher. This was a good investment in 2015. It is even better now.

Traded on: Aim Ticker: LOK Contact: loknstore.co.uk or 01252 521010

====== 937 ========

MIDAS SHARE TIPS: GEAR4MUSIC IS BECOMING A BIG NOISE

In 1995, Andrew Wass, then a 24-year-old sound engineer, decided to upgrade his recording equipment, using the latest technology.

Starting from scratch, Wass created a system so much better than anything he had used before that he began selling similar gear to his peers in the music business.

The enterprise proved a hit and, in 2003, Wass launched Gear4Music. Today, it is the largest online music specialist in the UK, with a rapidly growing presence across Europe. The shares are 552p and should rise substantially over the next few years.

Worth a bash: Gear4Music sells everything from drum kits to bagpipes

In 2015, when Gear4Music floated on the stock market, revenues were £24 million and more than 75 per cent of sales came from the UK. Last year, sales were more than £80 million and Europe accounted for 45 per cent of the total.

The pace of growth is far from accidental. Wass and his team are highly ambitious and the business now boasts 20 websites in 15 languages and nine different currencies, including the US dollar.

The group ships to 190 countries, as far afield as Mauritius and Hong Kong, but sales are concentrated closer to home, particularly Britain, Germany and Scandinavia.

A brand new warehouse has just opened outside Stockholm, another is near Dusseldorf and the main headquarters, recently upgraded, are in York. Each of these locations includes a showroom where consumers can try out instruments and bits of kit but the vast majority of sales are made online.

Back in 2015, Gear4Music stocked 27,000 products on its websites. Today, the company stocks more than 50,000 different products, from instruments such as guitars, pianos and violins, to sound equipment such as microphones and speakers and DJ paraphernalia, such as mixers and special lighting.

Digital instruments are a popular choice, including drums complete with headphones so teenagers can bash away day and night without disturbing neighbours. Even bagpipes feature among Wass’s bestsellers – and not just in Scotland.

Looking ahead, Wass is determined to continue expanding both here and overseas. The global music market is valued at £12 billion, the UK accounts for around £750 million of that total and sales in mainland Europe sales top £3.5 billion a year.

Gear4Music is expected to deliver revenues of £110 million in the year to February 28, 2019 so the company has huge potential to increase its market share.

Like almost every area of the retail industry, online sales of musical equipment are growing much faster than those in physical stores. Keen to remain at the forefront of the online field, Gear4Music invests heavily in its technology.

More than 45 software specialists work on the company’s websites to make sure they are top-notch and a team of music experts are available day and night, offering support and advice to customers.

Gear4Music has a growing own-brand line as well, with 3,200 items, accounting for a quarter of all sales. These items are high quality and competitively priced but also more profitable than other brands.

Pre-tax profits fell from £2.6 million to £1.5 million last year, as Wass ploughed cash back into the business to fund future growth. Profits should rebound this year and increase rapidly thereafter.

Midas verdict: Some shareholders were spooked by the most recent profit fall and the stock suffered, falling from 865p last October to close at 552p last week. Gear4Music’s biggest shareholders remain committed to the company, however, and newcomers to the business should be encouraged by this show of loyalty. The stock should rise up the charts. Buy.

Traded on: Aim Ticker: G4M Contact: gear4musicplc.com or 0330 365 4444

====== 938 ========

MIDAS SHARE TIPS UPDATE: EDINBURGH-BASED CRANEWARE GETS TEN TIMES BETTER

The US healthcare sector is under pressure. The biggest market in the world, its 5,000 hospitals spend around $1.3trillion (£1trillion) a year on staff, medical supplies, drugs, equipment and the like.

Yet Americans have more illnesses and die earlier than many countries with far lower healthcare budgets.

The US government is trying to encourage hospitals to be more efficient. Edinburgh-based Craneware helps them do this.

The US government is trying to encourage hospitals to be more efficient and Edinburgh-based Craneware helps them do this

Founded in 1999 by Keith Nielsen, this Scottish company has created a group of software tools that help American hospitals spend their money more wisely. The group has been phenomenally successful.

In 2009, when Midas first recommended the shares, they were 275p. Last week, they closed at 2700p so they have surged nearly tenfold in the past nine years.

At the same time, profits have more than tripled, the dividend has surged from 4.7p to 24p and the company has expanded into new hospitals and products.

Initially, Craneware focused on one product that ensured US hospitals recorded exactly how long patients stayed on the ward and the treatments they received so that insurance payments were calculated accurately.

Since then, Nielsen has added other services, making use of the data that Craneware has amassed over the years to help hospitals treat patients more effectively.

Products include a pharmacy application that allows hospitals to work out which drugs offer the best long-term results or a supply chain tool to improve logistics.

The company works with a quarter of all US hospitals and is expected to grow substantially by selling more to these customers and acquiring new ones. Brokers expect profits to rise 18 per cent to $25.2million in the year to June 30, 2019 and a dividend of 24.8p has been pencilled in, rising steadily in subsequent years.

Craneware shares have climbed so high that, at 2700p, the stock may seem a touch unwieldy. However, a share-split may be on the cards, which would make individual shares seem more accessible.

Midas verdict: Craneware helps American hospitals to cut costs and deliver better results for patients. The stock has soared in recent years and shareholders may feel inclined to bank some profits. However, they should keep a good percentage of their holdings. There is plenty more mileage in the stock for new and existing investors and an annual meeting in early November could deliver more upbeat news.

Traded on: Aim Ticker: CRW Contact: craneware.com or 0131 550 3100

====== 939 ========

MIDAS SHARE TIPS: OSIRIUM - THE FIRM THAT HELPS SAVE HOSPITALS FROM HACK ATTACKS

Last week, the National Cyber Security Centre warned that the UK faces a major, life-threatening cyber-attack in the near future.

A Government agency, the Centre advises companies on how to avoid security threats.

It has handled more than 500 cases in the past 12 months alone and the numbers are growing by the week.

Life support: Cyber criminals threaten the NHS

The stakes are high. When TalkTalk suffered a data breach, it cost more than £40million and customers were furious.

British Airways has yet to reveal the cost of its cyber-attack last month but it could run into hundreds of millions of pounds, let alone the reputational damage that the company has suffered.

Osirium aims to prevent these types of attacks. The company is relatively small but it is a market leader in its field and growing fast.

The shares, at 124p, should follow suit. Osirium specialises in so-called 'privileged access management' – in essence, preventing hackers from accessing the accounts of people who administer software systems.

Most individuals – customers, employees, even board directors – only have access to their own online information. 'Privileged account' holders have access to hordes of information.

They invariably work in an organisation's IT department and their computers include data on customers' bank accounts, patients' records, sensitive employee details or confidential information about defence and security.

For sophisticated cyber-criminals, these accounts are like the Holy Grail, allowing them to steal vast quantities of information in a single hit.

As a result, over 80 per cent of cyber-attacks concern privileged accounts.

Reading-based Osirium aims to turn the tide. The company is a pioneer in the privileged access area and it has a number of blue-chip customers, including several NHS trusts.

Most customers prefer to remain anonymous but major retailers, water groups, universities, insurers, mobile phone firms, defence specialists and online retailers have all signed up to Osirium and many more businesses are expected to do so over the next year or two.

The company's services are highly complex but they centre on making sure that customers have a measure of control over privileged accounts holders or system administrators. They are not allowed to create their own passwords, for instance.

Instead, Osirium creates passwords for them, which are exceptionally secure and changed continually.

These passwords only allow users to see what they need to, rather than giving them access to a company's entire data.

This simple measure can make a huge difference to an organisation's cyber security.

Over 99 per cent of all cyber-attacks relate to human error, often involving the use of passwords that are easy to guess or accidentally allowing outsiders to see them.

Worryingly too, around a quarter of cyber-attacks globally are inside jobs. Restricting highly-placed systems administrators' access to information can dramatically cut the risk of attacks.

Osirium was founded by chief executive David Guyatt, who has spent almost 30 years in the cyber industry, founding the business behind email security product MIMEsweeper in 1995 and selling it for £700 million just five years later.

Guyatt set up Osirium in 2009 and listed the business in 2016. Interim results were impressive, with first-half revenues up 78 per cent to £466,0000 year-on-year.

Brokers expect 2018 sales of £900,000, rising to £1.4million in 2019. The company is loss-making, as it invests in future growth, but should become profitable in 2020, growing rapidly thereafter.

MIDAS VERDICT: Cyber security is big business and one of the fastest growing areas in the industry relates to privileged accounts – and how to make them safer.

This is Osirium's speciality and it is one of the world's most innovative companies in this sector.

The business is growing fast, expanding into other countries and may well attract a takeover bid along the way. At 124p, the shares are a buy.

====== 940 ========

MIDAS UPDATE: BY GEORGE, HE'S RIGHT! VOLUTION SHARES RISE AS BOSS BUYS

Just over a week ago, Volution chief executive Ronnie George bought 10,000 shares in his firm.

The purchase, at 170p a share, cost £17,000 and took his stake in the ventilation business to nearly 3 per cent. George called the move as 'a protest' – his way of saying that the shares were undervalued.

The stock closed at 178p on Friday so George has already gone some way to proving his point. But brokers who know the firm well believe it has a lot further to go.

The company has doubled in size over five years – without recourse to shareholders

Volution makes ventilation products from bathroom extractor fans in bathrooms to sophisticated air purifier systems, increasingly used in new homes, offices and warehouses.

Behind brands such as Vent-Axia, Ventilair and Diffusion, the company has doubled in size over five years – without recourse to shareholders – and George wants to do the same again by 2023, expanding organically and through well-placed acquisitions. The target is well within reach.

Volution listed on the stock market in 2014 at 150p and was recommended by Midas in September that year at 155p.

The firm operated mainly in the UK at the time. Today, the UK accounts for less than half group revenues.

The group has a thriving Nordic division and has expanded into Belgium, Germany, the Nether-lands and even New Zealand.

Its factories export far and wide, from Crete to the Falkland Islands.

George is keen to beef up Volution's presence in Europe, cement the group's position in Britain and possibly move into Australia. Regulation is on Volution's side too.

Governments are keen to reduce energy use by making new homes and offices as well insulated as possible.

That creates a need for effective ventilation products and Volution makes some of the best on the market.

Annual results to July 31 showed an 11 per cent increase in sales to £206million, profits rose 4 per cent to £37million and the dividend was up 7 per cent to 4.4p.

Analysts expect sales of £230million, profits of £42million and a 4.8p dividend next year with further growth in 2020.

MIDAS VERDICT: Volution shares have risen more than 16 per cent since Midas recommended them, and there have been some decent dividends too.

However, the stock has plenty more mileage, with most City brokers expecting the price to rise to at least 230p in the next 12 months.

Current investors should stay with this one. New investors could also follow George's lead and buy a few.

====== 941 ========

MIDAS: GO GIRL! TRY THIS INSURER FOR WOMEN DRIVERS AND FAST CARS IF YOU LIKE PREMIUM PROFIT

Most teenagers plead penury. But not all. Last month, one lucky 18-year-old was presented with an Aston Martin for his birthday.

Before the young man could drive the car, it needed insurance – costing Mum and Dad a hefty £4,000 a year.

The insurer was Sabre Insurance Group. The company floated on the stock market last December, the shares are 261p and should deliver both steady growth and generous dividends over the coming years.

Targets: Customers range from Ferrari-driving sportsmen to 17-year-old first drivers

Sabre pursues policies that other companies steer clear of – expensive cars, young drivers, gritty inner-city locations – all fall within its remit.

Customers range from Ferrari-driving sportsmen to 17-year-old first drivers to Porsche-owning bankers with previous speeding convictions.

As a result, Sabre's average annual premium is £700 compared to a £400 average for the rest of the motor market.

Every week, the group sells around 40 policies costing more than £4,000 a year and some are substantially higher than that – £30,000 being the largest premium in recent months.

Focusing on quirky or non-standard drivers has important benefits. Most of the UK car insurance market is intensely competitive, with companies chasing new business on price comparison websites, often at the expense of profitability.

Sabre is different. The group is utterly focused on making profits. Chief executive Geoff Carter does not chase business for the sake of increasing sales.

Instead, he ensures that the premiums offered reflect the risks that the group is taking.

Since the company insures drivers that rivals avoid however, it can afford to charge higher prices and still win business.

As a result, it is more profitable than many peers and is expected to pay chunky dividends to shareholders.

A trading statement last week suggested that the company is on track for a strong 2018, with Carter hinting at a special dividend too – extra cash on top of the regular payout.

Brokers expect profits of £63.7 million this year, rising to £67.6 million in 2019. An ordinary dividend of 14.6p has been pencilled in for 2018, putting the shares on a 5.6 per cent yield.

A special dividend will add even more to the payout. Next year's dividend is forecast at 15.3p and this may well be boosted by another special payment.

Sabre traces its history back to the 1980s and has been involved in the non-standard side of the motor market for decades.

That has allowed the group to build an incredibly large data base, used to make accurate predictions about claims. Carter runs an extremely lean base from Sabre's headquarters in Dorking, Surrey.

The office is devoid of frills and fancy and top-notch software helps to bring down costs and improve pricing decisions.

Sabre also generates 70 per cent of its business from brokers so it incurs lower marketing costs than many competitors.

The rest comes from divisions such as DriveSmart, which offers telematics car insurance and Go Girl, which appeals to young female drivers (traditionally much less risky than young males).

Looking ahead, Sabre is expected to flourish even if the economic environment deteriorates.

Motor insurance is compulsory and non-standard motorists will always need to drive.

Sabre also has less than 2 per cent of the UK market so there is plenty of room for growth and Carter hopes to expand to other vehicles, such as vans and taxis.

====== 942 ========

MIDAS EXTRA: ANGLING DIRECT REELS IN REVENUES UP BY 56%

Fishing is a top five hobby in the UK, with more than 900,000 anglers spending time at the river bank, dabbling with rods, baits and other tackle.

Many of them buy their gear from Angling Direct, the largest specialist retailer in the field.

Midas recommended Angling last November, when the shares were 78p.

Stock watch: Revenues were up 56 per cent to £22 million in the six months to July 31

Last week, they closed at 97.5p, following upbeat half-year figures and a confident message about the future.

Revenues were up 56 per cent to £22million in the six months to July 31, just under half of which came from Angling's 22 stores.

Another store opened over the summer and one more will open by the end of the year, all strategically placed in areas popular with fishing enthusiasts.

Shop sales are strong, supported by new store openings. Online sales are stronger still and expected to continue in that vein.

Angling already ships to more than 40 countries worldwide and in June opened its first overseas website, in Germany – offering customers the chance to order tackle in their native language and talk to German speakers if they need help.

Popular pastime: Fishing is a top five hobby in the UK, with more than 900,000 anglers spending time at the river bank

The gear is still sent from England and so is the customer service, with fluent German speakers working from Angling's headquarters just outside Norwich.

Chief executive Darren Bailey intends to launch websites in France, Belgium and the Netherlands by the end of the year, French and Dutch speakers have already been hired to deal with queries from across the Channel and Russia is on the cards too.

Brokers expect annual sales of £41.3 million, rising to £47 million in the year to January 2020.

This year's profits are forecast at £1.1 million, rising to £1.4 million next year. The figures are relatively low, as Bailey is investing much of the company's cash in future growth.

As such, a dividend is unlikely for the next couple of years. Further out however, the policy may well change, not least because the company's two founders own 53 per cent of the business between them, while Bailey, who has worked there since he was 16, owns 6 per cent.

====== 943 ========

BB HEALTHCARE TRUST: THAT'S BETTER! A HEALTHCARE TRUST WITH 43% RETURN

Bellevue launched the BB Healthcare Trust in December 2016

Across the globe, nations are grappling with the problem of ageing populations and the rising healthcare bills they generate.

In the UK, the answer has been to pump yet more money into the National Health Service.

In the US, where most medical bills are paid for in part by health insurance, President Trump has controversially cut the governmental support which made cover more affordable for those on low incomes – so-called 'Obamacare', named after former President Barack Obama.

With healthcare costs spiralling, a phalanx of companies are now developing new techniques which they believe will help tackle this cost conundrum.

Everything from the development of wellness apps to help people stay healthier for longer – through to the remote diagnosis of patients (telemedicine) and new minimally invasive surgery which cuts the time people spend recuperating in hospital.

It is a fertile breeding ground for leading-edge companies and one that has attracted the interest of Swiss fund manager Bellevue Asset Management. Half of the company's £9 billion of assets are invested in companies operating in the healthcare sector.

In December 2016, Bellevue launched the BB Healthcare Trust to capitalise on this strong investment theme.

Listed on the UK stock market, the trust has a market value of £458 million and has already established a solid track record despite recent traumas which sent its shares sliding in response to the sharp correction in equities worldwide.

Since launch, the trust has delivered a healthy return of 43 per cent. To put this into context, the UK stock market has risen by 13 per cent over the same period.

The fund is managed out of Zurich and London by a three-man team – Paul Major, Daniel Koller and Brett Darke. All have academic backgrounds in healthcare and know the sector inside out.

Major, who works out of London and studied biochemistry at Bath University, says the trust was launched in the UK as an alternative to the usual way investors get exposure to healthcare related stocks – through the likes of blue chip companies such as AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline and Smith & Nephew.

He says: 'The fund comprises a concentrated portfolio of stocks, no more than 35 but currently 28. It has a big US bias because that is where a lot of the innovation is happening.'

To make the trust more appealing to investors, the board has agreed to pay a dividend in the region of 3.5 per cent that it hopes it can grow. Income payments are made twice a year.

Although Major describes the recent fall in the value of the trust's shares as 'painful', he believes the investment case for healthcare remains robust.

He says: 'Irrespective of what happens in the wider world economy, the need for innovation and advances in the way healthcare is delivered remains irrefutable. Yes, when equity markets correct, the shares of the companies we invest in tend to get hit hard. But the long-term investment opportunities are substantial.'

Bellevue is so confident in the healthcare 'story' that the trust is currently raising more money through the issue of new shares.

In terms of risk, the trust is on the high side, scoring four out of seven – where one is the safest.

Over five years, if things go well, you could earn double-digit annual returns. But if markets are under stress, you could lose more than half the value of your investment. So, it should only represent a small slice of any investment portfolio. The trust's annual charges are 1.26 per cent which are on the high side.

====== 944 ========

MITON EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES: FERRARI-LOVING FUND CHASING EUROPE'S GEMS

If domestic Brexit concerns make you wary, a hop across the Channel might provide the returns you crave.

The managers of Miton European Opportunities make it their business to steer their continental-centred fund through periods of short-term upheaval wherever it may occur – a strategy that could work to the advantage of investors worried about the current brouhaha at home.

Carlos Moreno and Thomas Brown have managed the £395 million fund jointly since its launch nearly three years ago.

They share a philosophy of buying good quality companies listed in Europe – with German, Swiss, Italian and French names dominating.

Holding strong: Miton Group's European Opportunities Fund buys good quality companies listed in Europe, such as Ferrari - calling them 'gem stocks'

Their selection of companies share a distinctive characteristic – that their businesses have strong brands which make it hard for rivals to muscle in on their patch.

The pair hold on to their purchases for the long term because they expect the companies to be bigger and more profitable down the line. Moreno calls these ‘gem stocks’ – of which they have picked 50 – the ‘baubles’ of the Continent.

The strategy has paid off so far, with the fund up nearly 70 per cent since launch almost three years ago. The growth has been a more modest 6 per cent in the last year but that compares to a 7 per cent average drop for rival funds in its sector.

One of the more glittering baubles they hold is Ferrari – the luxury sports car manufacturer spun off from Fiat Chrysler a few years ago.

Moreno says: ‘We like to spend time on spin-offs as they are often great brands that perform well once they are free of the control and bureaucracy of the bigger company.

'Ferrari can now buy all the bits it needs from whichever suppliers it wants. It also has strong barriers to competition.’

Miton's 'baubles': this graph shows how the group heavily invests in European healthcare and industrial companies

Their hope is that it will emulate the success of bigger rival Porsche.

Moreno says: ‘Ferrari sells about 8,500 cars a year. Porsche sells 250,000. It shows that you can get bigger without damaging the brand.’

A less glamorous but equally important bauble is Amplifon – an Italian retailer of hearing aids that also offers hearing tests. The managers reckon the ageing population around the world is going to bring big profits its way.

Moreno and Brown like the healthcare sector, which makes up more than a quarter of the fund.

Miton's top 10 holdings by percentage: the group holds shares to various European giants such as Finecobank and Homeserve

But they focus on so-called ‘meditech’ firms (like Amplifon) as they find them fleeter of foot and less unpredictable than the drugs companies, which are dominated by global giants whose expensive drugs trials may succeed or fail.

Whilst the fund is technically for firms from continental Europe only, the managers are allowed to invest 5 per cent maximum in the UK.

One UK-listed firm, Homeserve, has made the grade. It is a dominant player in the domestic home emergency repairs business but is expanding steadily into other nations.

Overall, the managers prefer companies in the turnover range of £1 billion to £10 billion – anything bigger they avoid on the premise that ‘large elephants cannot run’.

Patrick Connolly, of financial adviser Chase de Vere, says it is an ideal fund for investors to buy and hold for the long term.

He adds: ‘It could get left behind if markets race ahead. But its long-term defensive nature should help to guide it through periods of market turbulence. This should be the case with any Brexit turmoil.

'Investors should be well protected as the fund’s focus is on investing in companies which export globally, so it is not overly reliant on the UK or European economies.’

====== 945 ========

INVESCO PERPETUAL UK SMALLER COMPANIES HAS BIG IDEAS

These are difficult times for investors in funds with exposure to smaller companies. The shake-out in markets has hit the shares of many smaller companies hard, resulting in sharp price falls.

Nowhere has the pain been more excruciating than at Invesco Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust.

Over the past month, its shares have fallen in value by nearly 12 per cent and manager Jonathan Brown – quite candidly – does not believe things will improve until a Brexit deal has been struck.

Even then, a combination of higher interest rates and a raging trade war between the United States and China will threaten to continue to destabilise stock markets worldwide, causing further torment for investors in UK smaller companies funds.

Together with deputy manager Robin West, Brown has been busy trying to protect shareholders from the worst of the market falls, but it has been a struggle Defensive measures include a five per cent cash holding and no expensive borrowings to denude shareholders' investments.

The managers have also tried to construct a resilient portfolio. But as Brown says: 'As an investment manager, you do not beat the Federal Reserve. When interest rates rise, equities fall.'

The trust's portfolio currently comprises 78 holdings, drawn from the bottom ten per cent of the UK stock market by market capitalisation. It includes a number of FTSE 250 listed companies, including thread-maker Coats, pharmaceuticals firm Clinigen, IT consultancy firm FDM and Hilton Foods.

Apart from the 'smaller company' label, the common theme across the trust is a focus on businesses that have the ability to grow irrespective of what is happening in the wider economy.

This 'independence' may be a result of product innovation, an ability to swallow up rivals and derive economies of scale, or beneficial 'structural' change in the industry that a company is operating.

An excellent example of 'innovation' is Coats Group, the trust's second biggest company position.

Brown says: 'A third of shirts manufactured in the world are held together by thread made by Coats. But what I like is the fact that it has built an internet presence that allows manufacturers to order thread quickly in response to the march of fast fashion.'

In terms of consolidators, Brown says Johnson Service Group is a perfect example.

The company supplies linen and tableware for hire to hotels and restaurants. 'Johnson has been steadily buying up competitors,' says Brown. 'The result is that as it increases customer numbers, it is able to drive down unit costs, resulting in an increase in profits.'

The trust has two features that stand it apart from rivals. First, it is keen to maintain an attractive annual dividend of around four per cent. Second, the managers have the right to charge a performance fee if the trust outperforms its benchmark – the Numis Smaller Companies Index.

This can add an additional one per cent to the annual management fee of 0.65 per cent. In the year to the end of January 2018, a £2.6 million performance fee was taken from the trust's profits, compared to £1.2 million of annual management fees.

To put this into context, the trust's assets are valued at just over £150 million.

Despite the fees – or maybe because of them – the trust's share price has increased by 85 per cent over the past five years. Only two out of 13 other UK smaller companies' trusts have delivered better returns.

====== 946 ========

FUND FOCUS: INVESTMENT TRUST ALLIANCE SERVES UP A RISING RETURN FOR 51 YEARS IN A ROW

Investment trust Alliance has been making money for shareholders for 130 years.

It has a loyal private investor following, many drawn in by the trust's commitment to paying a rising dividend.

Bar an almighty disaster, it is well on course to delivering its 52nd year of consecutive dividend increases – a record bettered by only one other fund (City of London).

Investment trust Alliance has been making money for shareholders for 130 years. It has a loyal following, many drawn in by the trust's commitment to paying a rising dividend

But Alliance is much changed from the investment trust it was just two years ago. This is a result of 'activist' shareholder Elliott, an institutional investor, which felt the trust's previous internal managers were not delivering the goods.

Although Elliott has now sold its stake at a tidy profit, its legacy lives on. The boardroom has been refreshed, the chief executive removed, and a number of subsidiary businesses (an investment management arm and a fund platform) sold.

But the most radical change has been on the investment management front. While technically still managed out of Dundee, the £2.6 billion fund has parcelled out its portfolio to eight external investment houses to manage.

In investment speak, the trust has gone multi-manager – basing its fortunes and those of shareholders squarely on the heads of the selected managers.

While still early days, it seems the new investment approach is bedding down nicely. Clare Dobie, a non-executive director of the trust, says: 'Initially, there was a lot of surprise at the change. But shareholders are coming round as they become more familiar with the new investment strategy.'

The managers selected to run a slice of the trust's assets come from a mix of UK and overseas-based investment houses.

So, in the UK, Jupiter, River and Mercantile and Veritas.

Among the international managers are Canadian based Black Creek, Lyrical Asset Management (New York) and First Pacific Advisors (Los Angeles).

The managers are overseen by financial consultants Willis Towers Watson whose job is to monitor their performance and replace them if they are not up to scratch.

So far, no changes have been made although Willis's chief investment officer Craig Baker says he will not hesitate to fire and hire if it is in the best interests of shareholders.

He says: 'I start each working day asking myself one question: 'Are these the best managers?'.'

Each manager runs a parcel of no more than 20 stocks. The only exception is GQG which additionally manages a 40-strong portfolio of emerging market shares. The result is a trust with broad exposure to a range of equity markets and sectors.

Surprisingly, there is little overlap in companies held. Three managers have positions in two of the trust's biggest holdings – Alphabet and Microsoft – but the largest stake overall represents a modest 2.4 per cent of Alliance's portfolio. Baker says no shareholding will exceed five per cent.

Dobie is thrilled with the overhaul. She says: 'What we are doing is asking some of the world's top managers to run with their best ideas. It is all rather unique.'

But global trust Witan is run in a similar multi-manager way with 10 managers running chunks of the trust's portfolio.

Since the new investment approach was adopted, Alliance's shares are up in price by eight per cent – a return better than the FTSE All-Share Index. But it is far too early to call the overhaul a success.

One reassuring fact is that the trust's overall annual charge remains modest with the board determined to keep it below 0.65 per cent.

====== 947 ========

PERSONAL ASSETS TRUST: PROTECTION, NOT PROFITS, IS THE KEY TO A FORTUNE

Investment trust Personal Assets is a rare breed. Unlike the vast majority of rivals, its overriding objective is to preserve the wealth of shareholders, even if it means compromising returns when stock markets are advancing.

This emphasis on wealth preservation explains why the £896million trust invariably comprises an eclectic mix of equities, cash and index-linked Government securities.

It is also the main reason why exposure to equities – 36 per cent – is at a nine-year low because manager Sebastian Lyon believes stock markets are heading for some difficult months.

The trust comprises an eclectic mix of equities, cash and index-linked Government securities

Unlike most other fund managers, Lyon has no compunction when it comes to selling equities within the trust and holding slugs of cash.

'It is all about minimising drawdown,' he says. 'If an equity slips 25 per cent in value, it needs to bounce 33 per cent to get back to the price it was at before the fall.'

For example a £100 investment that falls 25 per cent to £75 must rise by £25 – a third of £75 – to get back to £100.

Lyon says: 'To avoid that, if we think a company's valuation is too high – or valuations generally are inflated – we would rather step off, even it means getting out too early and missing out on any continued upside.

'We then invest again when valuations look attractive.'

The result is a trust that in relative terms performs better when the going gets tough than when markets are roaring ahead.

This explains why in the past year its share price has performed slightly better than the FTSE All-Share Index but over the past five and ten years it has underperformed – delivering respective returns of 29 per cent and 124 per cent, compared to 31 per cent and 171 per cent for the index.

This year, Lyon has been trimming the trust's equity holdings, taking profits on stocks such as US medical technology company Becton Dickinson while gently reducing stakes in others such as Microsoft (the trust's largest holding).

Although Lyon rules out another 2008-like financial crisis, he argues that market disruption – not banking crises – will be the order of the day. He says: 'The market corrections in February 2018 were a wake-up call.

This month we have seen more of the same, not just in emerging markets but in the UK and US.

Indeed, until recently the US market was very much the last man standing. But with interest rates rising, these are now counteracting the positive impact of President Trump's tax cuts.'

Over the coming months, he envisages the trust's equity exposure reducing maybe a fraction more, but not down to the zero level it was at in the run-up to the financial crisis in 2007 and 2008.

Lyon believes falling bond and equity prices – against a backdrop of rising interest rates – present a dilemma for many investors brought up on the virtues of asset diversification.

It explains why Personal Assets has more of its portfolio invested in inflation-linked rather than fixed interest bonds. The trust also has exposure to gold.

Lyon has been investment adviser to Personal Assets since October 2009, taking over management of the trust's assets in the wake of the death of its founder Ian Rushbrook.

He says: 'It was Ian who repositioned the trust in the 1990s from one based on stock picking to a fund making key asset allocation decisions.

'And it was Ian who adopted the mantra of building a trust designed to enable shareholders to be confident any wealth tied up in the fund would grow in real terms.'

It is a mantra Lyon is determined to uphold.

====== 948 ========

BAILLIE GIFFORD JAPAN INVESTMENT TRUST HAS DELIVERED INVESTORS A 135%

Investment trust Baillie Gifford Japan does not like change.

Since its launch 37 years ago, the £749million trust has only had three managers at the helm and the fund's focus has always been on finding opportunities and then holding them for the long term in the hope of the share prices rising.

It is a successful formula, judged by recent results. The trust has generated attractive returns for shareholders of 17 per cent over the past year, 99 per cent over three years and a whopping 135 per cent over five years.

Change at the top: Matthew Brett is the trust's manager, having stepped into the hot seat this May

But some analysts believe there is even more to come. A recent research note from analysts at wealth manager Canaccord Genuity describes its shares as a 'buy' and the trust as a 'core holding for investors looking for exposure to Japan'.

Matthew Brett is the trust's manager, having stepped into the hot seat this May after the retirement of Sarah Whitley, who had overseen it since 1991.

Having co-managed sister fund Baillie Gifford Japanese with Whitley for ten years, Brett was the obvious choice to take over the trust's reins. He has done so without anyone really noticing and crucially not changing the trust's modus operandi. Buy and hold.

Although the trust has broad exposure to key Japanese business sectors, three areas excite Brett the most.

These are the internet, robotics and emerging healthcare – themes that will dominate his trip to Japan next month, when he will meet the managements of some of the companies the trust is invested in – plus a few he is looking to take a stake in.

Strategy: Some 28 per cent of the portfolio has an internet bent to it

Brett says: 'Some 28 per cent of the portfolio has an internet bent to it. I am confident that many businesses in Japan will grow as they embrace e-commerce and offer consumers a cheaper way of buying goods and services.'

A key holding is SBI, a company that Brett describes as the 'Hargreaves Lansdown of Japan', offering a range of internet-based financial services.

A stake in the business was first bought in 2009 and it is now the trust's second-largest holding.

Robotics also fascinates Brett, with a key holding in industrial robot manufacturer Yaskawa, bought in 2010.

Top holdings: Brett says the Japanese stock market is 'neither over nor under-valued'

He says: 'What is so exciting about robotics is that we are now where we were with the internet 20 years ago.

'The potential is huge, especially as robotics expands out from the industrial work space and into areas such as the automobile.'

But it is probably the area of emerging healthcare that Brett is most stimulated by.

The trust has stakes in Cyberdyne and SanBio, companies using state-of-the-art technology (and robotics) to aid the recovery of people with spinal or brain injuries and those who have suffered from a stroke.

'The pace of medical innovation is so exciting,' he says.

While Brett says the Japanese stock market is 'neither over nor under-valued', he believes the economic and financial backdrop in Japan is now favourable.

'The ogre of deflation has disappeared,' he says.

'From here, as investment managers, we can make decent profits but there will be inevitable stock market volatility along the way.'

Research analysts at QuotedData says key to the trust's success has been good stock selection.

With an economic backdrop now kinder to businesses, they believe this forte could hold shareholders in good stead.

Baillie Gifford also runs investment trust Shin Nippon, a fund with a focus on micro and smaller companies.

The average value of the 69 companies comprising the Japan trust is £9.5 billion, compared with £1.4 billion for Shin Nippon.

====== 949 ========

MIDAS SHARE TIPS: IF YOU WANT HEALTHY PROFITS CONSIDER SENSYNE

The NHS is often referred to as a national treasure. But the entire system is under intense pressure, as the population ages, obesity increases and drugs become more expensive.

Prime Minister Theresa May is determined to make it work better. Speaking at last week’s Conservative Party conference, she pledged to speed up cancer diagnosis.

Earlier this year, she spoke about using artificial intelligence to fight cancer and a range of other chronic diseases.

Sensyne Health is helping the NHS to put the Prime Minister’s words into practice. The shares are 187p and should rise substantially over the next few years.

Sensyne Health is a pioneer in clinical artificial intelligence, using data from the NHS

The company is a pioneer in clinical artificial intelligence (AI), using anonymised data from the NHS to diagnose patterns in cancer, heart disease and lung disease, as well as conditions such as Alzheimer’s and diabetes.

The company then passes on its findings to drug companies so they can develop treatments faster and more cost-effectively than in the past.

Importantly, the drug firms do not have access to the data itself so Sensyne acts as a gateway between the NHS and the pharmaceutical industry.

The model was developed by chief executive Lord (Paul) Drayson, a highly successful entrepreneur who co-founded medical diagnostic firm Powderject Pharmaceuticals in 1993 and sold it for £550 million ten years later.

Drayson recognised that the UK has two major advantages in the fast-moving world of clinical AI. First, the NHS has enormous amounts of patient data, probably more than any other health service in the world. Second, Britain is at the forefront of research into how best to use AI.

Drayson has a PhD in robotics and a lifelong passion for science, technology and fast cars.

Stake: In return for providing data to Sensyne, the NHS gets a share of the drug company payments

Minister for Science and Innovation in Gordon Brown’s Labour Government, he founded Sensyne just a year ago, working in partnership with Oxford University and the Oxford University NHS Trust.

The company has since signed agreements with two more Trusts, South Warwickshire and Chelsea & Westminster in London and expects to add three more within the next two years.

Under these agreements, the NHS Trusts provide anonymised data to Sensyne, which it sieves through looking for clues about how diseases arise and develop.

Smart ideas are patented and licensed to drug firms, who provide upfront payments, milestone payments and royalties to Sensyne.

In return for providing the initial data, the Trusts receive shares in Sensyne and a share of the drug company payments.

In this way, the NHS helps to improve treatments for patients and receives tangible financial benefits, which can be used, in turn, to deliver better care.

Sensyne is a relatively new company but it has already made some major breakthroughs. The group has developed apps used on tablets and smartphones to monitor heart conditions, lung disease and diabetes among pregnant women.

One app, SEND, analyses patients at risk of cardiac arrest while they are in hospital, sending the data to doctors and nurses so high-risk patients can be seen first.

The app has already cut heart attacks on the ward by 20 per cent. Another app, used at home by lung disease sufferers, has reduced hospital admissions by 17 per cent.

Sensyne does not generate revenues from these apps but it uses the data to further its research. In time however, Drayson hopes to make money from these apps overseas and is already in talks with US hospitals.

Sensyne has also signed a licence agreement with a drug company relating to its lung disease findings and expects to sign another major deal in the short term.

Sales are expected to surge from £100,000 this year to more than £12 million by 2021. The group is likely to be loss-making for the next few years, ploughing revenues back into the business but the long-term outlook is bright.

Encouragingly too, Drayson and his wife own 29 per cent of the stock and the board is filled with professors, scientists and high-ranking doctors, led by chairman Professor Sir John Bell, Regius Professor of Medicine at Oxford.

MIDAS VERDICT: Sensyne Health is a rare beast. Using cutting-edge technology, the company is working with the NHS to help drug companies find cures for some of the most prevalent diseases of our time. At 187p, the shares are a buy.

====== 950 ========

MIDAS SHARE TIPS UPDATE: IS NOW THE TIME TO SELL ROYAL MAIL SHARES?

Royal Mail shares were trading at more than 630p in May. On Friday, they closed at 345p – within flirting distance of the 330p flotation price five years ago.

The stock had been drifting lower all summer but it fell 27 per cent last week alone, after a shock profit warning from new chief executive Rico Back.

Back confessed that the letters business has been faring even worse than the company expected, with volumes likely to be down by 7 per cent this year.

Stock watch: Royal Mail's share price plummeted after business admitted it was faring worse than expected

Hoped-for productivity gains have not materialised and even the overseas parcels division, supposedly a jewel in the crown, has been hit by cost pressures.

The UK parcels business is growing but full-year group profits are still expected to slide from £694 million to £525 million.

The main bright spot is the dividend, forecast at 24.9p, putting the shares on a yield of just over 7 per cent.

Back says he is committed to a progressive dividend, which normally means payments should rise. However, analysts are already questioning how long that can last.

The company generates plenty of cash but Back has a big challenge on his hands, particularly when it comes to improving productivity – which really means encouraging 90,000 postmen and women to deliver more letters and packages than they are used to.

Midas verdict: More than 500,000 people own shares in this business, including thousands of staff. Many will be tempted to sell now, while they can still make a tiny profit on the 330p flotation price.

But the company reports half-year figures next month and Back will almost certainly try to deliver better news then. Worth holding, at least for the next few weeks.

====== 951 ========

SCOTTISH INVESTMENT TRUST: THE TRUST SAVES ON COSTS

Scottish Investment Trust is a rare beast. Unlike most of its rivals that are run by world- renowned asset houses – blue-blooded types such as Fidelity, Janus Henderson and JP Morgan – this fund is self-managed by a tight five-strong investment team from modest offices in Edinburgh.

Premises that management, past and present, have occupied since the trust was launched 129 years ago.

This might appear a little parochial and old fashioned, but it is an approach that has served the trust’s shareholders well.

Trading trends: Over the past 3 years, Scottish Investment Trust has outperformed the FTSE All-Share Index

Given the managers and four other support staff are all employees of the trust, a firm eye is always kept on costs and new ways to save money with a lot of back office services outsourced to third parties.

The result is a trust with annual charges half those of many competing investment funds, which means there is more left over for investors when things are going well.

Under the lead management of Alasdair McKinnon since mid-July 2014, Scottish is holding its own.

Over the past three years, it has outperformed the FTSE All-Share Index and is well on course to delivering its 35th consecutive year of annual dividend increases.

Indeed, this year it has made itself a little more income-friendly by distributing dividends for the first time every quarter rather than semi-annually. The board, with two of the five directors female, is keen to keep the dividend growing in line with inflation.

As a manager, McKinnon is a self-confessed contrarian, preferring to buy into unloved companies in the hope that at some stage they will become cherished again.

It is an investment style that requires patience, does not always pan out as expected, but can deliver spectacular results when it works according to plan.

Certainly, Australian wine maker Treasury Wine Estates falls into the ‘spectacular’ category. Earlier this year, McKinnon sold the trust’s stake in the company, banking a profit of £50 million in the process. It represents his most successful investment so far.

In charge: Alasdair McKinnon joined the company in 2003 and became manager in 2015

He says: ‘I bought into the company in August 2015 when it was struggling. It was at the time what I would term an under-appreciated ugly duckling of the stock market. But new management quickly revived it.

‘I was surprised how quickly everything clicked into place. I could have kept holding it and banked more profits for the trust but the risk-reward profile had changed. It had become the trust’s biggest holding and it was time to sell.’

Today, Tesco has replaced Treasury Wine Estates as the trust’s biggest stake. McKinnon bought into the company at the end of 2016 – just before it announced it was to buy wholesaler Booker.

He says: ‘Over the past ten years, Tesco has gone from being a darling of the stock market to something of a disaster. Some thought it was finished and that Amazon would take over the grocery world.

‘But I am sure it is going to be around for the next 20 years. It is back in growth phase, despite last week’s slightly disappointing interim results, and looking to diversify with the recent launch of its discount store arm Jack’s.’

Among other contrary positions are stakes in Canadian oil giant Suncor Energy – a play on a buoyant oil price – and Australian gold miner Newcrest Mining (a hedge against inflation).

Although the trust’s 54-strong portfolio is skewed towards the United States and Canada, more than a quarter of the holdings are listed on the UK stock market.

McKinnon believes UK equities now look relatively cheap and that if a Brexit deal is struck, however fudged it is, it could provide a catalyst for a positive market rerating.

====== 952 ========

LIONTRUST SUSTAINABLE FUTURE MANAGED: BEING ETHICAL AND MAKING MONEY

Until this Friday, it is 'good money week' – a few days when the financial services industry gets together and encourages people to think about their finances from an ethical point of view. Everything from green investments, ethical bank accounts and corporate bonds.

Overseen by the UK Sustainable Investment and Finance Association and now in its 11th year, a big theme this time around is on encouraging more women to invest – not just ethically but across the board.

One of the sponsors of the week's events is asset manager Liontrust, a company which is now making a name for itself in 'sustainable investments'.

Overseen by Peter Michaelis, the 13-strong 'sustainable' investment team looks after assets in excess of £3billion across ten investment funds – from corporate bonds through to multi-asset and equity portfolios. To put this into context, Liontrust manages in total £11billion.

The team's flagship is Liontrust Sustainable Future Managed, an £814 million fund run by Michaelis and colleague Simon Clements.

Michaelis, who has solar panels on the roof of his home and drives around in a Tesla electric car, has a long history of investing in socially responsible companies, starting with investment house Morley – part of Aviva – and then moving on to Dundee-based Alliance before ending up with Liontrust last year.

Liontrust manager Peter Michaelis

He welcomes the profile that good money week gives his team's particular investment bent. Television programmes such as Blue Planet, he says, have also showcased the need to support industries capable of building a sustainable world.

The prime focus of Michaelis's team is to identify those companies it believes will improve people's lives – whether by empowering them financially, pushing through major medical advancements or ensuring better use of the world's finite resources.

The result is a bias towards financial and health stocks.

The Managed fund's biggest sector position is in financials – through stocks such as investment platform Hargreaves Lansdown and insurer Prudential.

Michaelis says: 'Hargreaves Lansdown is making investing simpler for people. That is a positive societal force for good. Equally, Prudential's powerful presence in Asia is encouraging millions of people to think for the first time about insurance and long-term saving.'

In healthcare, the fund is targeting companies striving to deliver more affordable solutions. A favourite stock is US-based biotech company Thermo Fisher Scientific.

Michaelis adds: 'This is a company leading the way in gene sequencing and helping fight the battle against cancer.'

Not everyone is keen on the investment sector that Michaelis is part of.

Brian Dennehy, a director of FundExpert, says ticking an ethical investment box 'comes at considerable cost' for investors because it excludes them from the 'vast majority of successful investment funds'.

Michaelis's response is to draw attention to the Managed fund's performance over the past five years – which is in excess of the FTSE All-Share Index.

He says: 'If you look at old pictures of New York's Times Square in the early 1900s they are dominated by horse and carts. Twenty years later, it was the car. Similarly, the days of the combustion engine dominating our roads are drawing to an end. The future is electric.'

Not surprisingly, none of the Managed fund's portfolio is invested in the world's major car manufacturers. Instead, it has holdings in companies such as the German semiconductor manufacturer Infineon.

Visit goodmoneyweek.com.

====== 953 ========

STANDARD LIFE UK SMALLER COMPANIES: A TRUST WITH BIG IDEAS

Formula: Harry Nimmo is not frightened to stick with winners like drinks maker Fever-Tree

Provided two shareholder votes go the right way in the next couple of weeks, investment trust Standard Life UK Smaller Companies is going to get a lot bigger.

Instead of a near £400million fund, it will have assets under its wing of some £550million. But the boost in size will only come if the trust is permitted to absorb the assets of rival Dunedin Smaller Companies.

For that to happen, at least 75 per cent of voting shareholders for both trusts must agree to the move.

Dunedin's shareholders will vote this Friday while Standard Life's will decide the following Wednesday.

With both of the trust's independent boards recommending a 'merger', it is unlikely there will be any investor revolt.

The two trusts are now both managed by investment combine Aberdeen Standard Life following the merger of the two investment houses last August. Having near identical investment objectives, it makes little sense to continue with both trusts.

With the Dunedin fund having a poorer investment record than its counterpart, it is hoped the combined trust will benefit from the astute management of Harry Nimmo who has run Standard Life UK Smaller Companies for the past 15 years with great success.

Over the past five years, he has generated investor returns of 84 per cent. In contrast, Dunedin shareholders have benefited from a return of 57 per cent.

Adding to the relative past pain for Dunedin shareholders, the trust's shares have consistently traded at a double-digit discount while management charges have been inflated by a performance fee – dragging down returns.

Although Nimmo's record on the investment trust goes back to 2003, he has managed smaller company portfolios for Standard Life for more than 20 years.

The portfolio of UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust is littered with winners

The success of sister investment fund Standard Life Investments UK Smaller Companies prompted its 'soft closing' seven years ago amid fears the fund would get too big for Nimmo to manage. Despite warning off new investors, it still has assets of £1.6 billion.

Nimmo is a creature of habit, sticking to a tried and tested formula he developed in the late 1990s to identify likely smaller companies for inclusion in the funds he runs. It embraces a mix of quantitative and qualitative tests.

He says: 'I like businesses that make money, deliver profits and pay dividends. I avoid anything blue sky. I prefer growth businesses that can generate predictable earnings.'

Typically he will hold for at least six years and is not frightened to run with winners, even if they are no longer strictly classified as smaller companies. The only proviso is that no stock can represent more than five per cent of the trust's assets.

The portfolio of UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust is littered with winners – the likes of drinks manufacturer Fever-Tree (bought at £1.34, now trading at above £37) and e-commerce company Abcam (bought at 60p, now above £14). These holdings are frequently chipped away at to keep within the five per cent holding limit.

Nimmo adds: 'What is vital as a smaller companies manager is to find the new batch of Fever-Trees and Abcams – the success stories of the next six to seven years.'

He is putting his faith in the likes of Dart Group – owner of customer friendly Jet2 – car supermarket Motorpoint and technology company Accesso.

If the trust's combined assets grow beyond £550million on the back of positive investment performance, a lower charge will kick in on any excess at 0.55 per cent.

====== 954 ========

POLAR CAPITAL GLOBAL FINANCIALS: TRUST IS BACKING US BANKS

Although it was the banks that triggered the 2008 financial crisis and sent stock markets into a tailspin, a diversified portfolio of financial stocks has proved a shrewd investment over the past decade.

Indeed, according to experts, global financial stocks could continue to deliver handsome investment returns as interest rates rise and profit margins increase.

A finance-related fund that walked into the 2008 financial crisis and came out relatively unscathed – bar the need to change the man at the fund's helm – is Jupiter Financial Opportunities.

Over the past ten years it has delivered a return of more than 150 per cent, in excess of that from the FTSE All Share Index.

Rival fund Polar Capital Global Financials Trust was not around when the banking crisis sent shock waves through the stock markets. Yet the investment trust, managed from offices within shouting distance of Buckingham Palace, has similarly thrived.

Since coming to the market in July 2013, its share price is up more than 50 per cent – and co-manager Nick Brind is convinced that there is more investment return to be earnt from a portfolio that is heavily skewed towards banks and the US.

He says: 'Of course, as a fund manager, there are always concerns that markets may not go in the direction you expect. But fundamentally, at its core, the world's banking system is better capitalised than it was ten years ago when the collapse of investment bank Lehman Brothers brought the world's financial systems to its knees.

Optimistic: Nick Brind says the world's banking system is now better capitalised

'Whichever financial matrix you use, the financial sector is less risky than it was and therefore more attractive as an investment proposition.'

The trust's initial launch was triggered by demand from wealth managers for an investment vehicle that offered exposure to the shares of banks and insurance companies outside the UK.

Unlike most investment houses that offer all things to all investors, Polar Capital specialises in a number of key investment themes such as technology, healthcare and financials. Apart from Polar Capital Global Financials, the £14 billion investment house also runs funds Financial Opportunities and Global Insurance plus Asian Opportunities and Income Opportunities that all have a strong financial bent.

Global Financials currently has more than half of its assets, spread across 70 companies, in banks – with the biggest geographic exposure being the United States at just over 40 per cent.

The trust has a couple of distinguishing features.

First, exposure to UK stocks is restricted to ten per cent – essentially because that is what wannabe backers of the trust demanded – as are holdings in unquoted companies. HSBC, OneSavings Bank and Standard Chartered are among its UK holdings as is Atom, the only unquoted stock.

Secondly, the trust has an initial seven-year life which means it could be wound up in June 2020. A similar strategy was employed on Polar's Global Healthcare trust which could have wound up last year. But investors voted to keep it going.

John Regnier-Wilson, head of investment trust sales at Polar Capital, says the use of a pre-determined fixed term is designed to ensure that those investors who want out after seven years can sell their shares at close to asset value – rather than selling them when they traded at a significant discount.

He adds: 'We are trying to do the right thing by investors. The seven-year anniversary could be viewed as a shareholder safety valve.'

With 19 months to go, shares in Global Financials are currently trading at a four per cent discount.

====== 955 ========

BAILLIE GIFFORD UK GROWTH: TRUST'S NEW IMAGE STARTS TO PAY OFF

It has been changing of the guard at investment trust Baillie Gifford UK Growth – and already change for the better as far as investors are concerned with a resulting boost in the fund's share price.

Previously known as Schroder UK Growth, the trust's board took the unusual step earlier this year of sacking the incumbent manager following a sustained period of underperformance against similar funds. Edinburgh- based Baillie Gifford were installed as the new managers.

Since the end of June, the new kids on the block – Iain McCombie and Milena Mileva – have been busy overhauling the trust's portfolio. It has been a drastic revamp. Of the 52 stocks inherited from Schroders, all bar a handful have been sold.

Changes: Milena Mileva has overhauled the portfolio with new holdings including Burberry

They have been replaced by smaller companies – in terms of market capitalisation – with the focus on holding durable businesses run by quality management (Baillie Gifford's forte).

Although it is still early days, the rebooting of the trust has been welcomed by wealth managers who determine whether clients' money should be invested in such a vehicle.

The change, prompting renewed investor demand for the trust's shares, has triggered a sharp reduction in the discount that the shares trade at – double figures last year and now down to around five per cent.

So, over the past year, the trust is a top five performer within its peer group of UK-invested trusts. Over the past five years, it is a bottom five performer.

'It has been a radical transformation of the trust that we have undertaken,' admits Mileva.

'We have got rid of most of the FTSE 100 holdings such as British American Tobacco, BP, HSBC, Lloyds Banking Group, Marks & Spencer, Shell and Tesco.

'Only a handful of the portfolio's old stocks – Legal & General and Just Group – are being retained. The overall result, once we have sold a small residual of remaining holdings, will be a more concentrated portfolio comprising growth companies in line with the trust's objectives and name.'

Most, she says, will be FTSE 250 or FTSE 350 listed companies. New positions have been taken in retailer Ted Baker and Gloucestershire-based precision engineering company Renishaw.

Mileva says: 'Of course, there is a lot of noise about retail Darwinism but Ted Baker has a sustainable branch network, a good online presence and is expanding into Asia. It will survive.'

Renishaw, she says, is an 'innovative company' producing precision machines used in measurement for applications including dentistry and surgery. She is sure it will keep growing as it innovates in exciting areas such as 3D printing and neurological robotics.

'It is a world-leading UK engineering business,' she proclaims. Other new holdings include luxury goods business Burberry which last week stopped burning unsold goods, instead recycling or donating them to charity.

Although it is a coup for Baillie Gifford to have won the investment management contract from Schroders, more important is the fact that the fund sits nicely within the business's portfolio of investment trusts.

James Budden, director of marketing and distribution, says: 'UK-focused investment trusts do not come up for grabs very often. The fund complements our four existing global investment trusts.'

These are Edinburgh Worldwide, Monks, Scottish American and Scottish Mortgage.

====== 956 ========

INDIA CAPITAL GROWTH: FUND RETURNS 224% OVER FIVE YEARS

David Cornell is Ocean Dial’s chief investment officer

Ocean Dial Asset Management is an unusual manager of money. Unlike a majority of rivals that manage investments across the globe, it has nailed its colours firmly to one mast – the mast of India and its equity markets.

It is a focused strategy that seems to be working for the investment house.

Since spinning out of Caledonia Investments five years ago, Ocean has steadily grown its assets invested in Indian equities to more than £430 million.

Although it has offices in London, its stock pickers are all based in India’s Mumbai, the country’s financial capital.

The asset manager runs four funds focused on India.

But its flagship is India Capital Growth, an investment vehicle launched more than 20 years ago under the wing of Caledonia and now managed from Mumbai by Gaurav Narain.

While the short-term investment numbers are unexciting, its returns over the past five years have been exceptional. Not one Indian fund has a superior investment record over this period.

David Cornell is Ocean Dial’s chief investment officer. Now based in London, he worked in India for eight years before returning to the UK in 2014. He is not only convinced by the case for Indian equities, but believes his company’s on-the-ground presence in Mumbai makes a ‘difference’.

Cornell says: ‘India is becoming more economically relevant. It has a young population with more than 50 per cent under the age of 25. Incomes are rising in real terms while India is making its mark across swathes of industry – health, automobiles and offshoring.’

With some 5,500 Indian equities to choose from, Ocean Dial is spoilt for choice. Yet Cornell says the focus of India Capital Growth is on some 300 small to medium- sized companies – businesses off the radar of most other fund managers looking to get exposure to Indian stock markets.

Trading trends: With some 5,500 Indian equities to choose from, Ocean Dial is spoilt for choice

The fund currently holds 38 stocks with an emphasis on consumer and financial companies looking to benefit from the population’s rising wealth – annual economic growth is running at some seven per cent.

Key holdings include consumer goods manufacturer Jyothy and finance company Dewan – positions held for some eight and six years respectively.

Cornell says: ‘Jyothy has some strong consumer brands including whitening agent Ujala, cleaning product Exo and soap Margo. Ujala makes your shirts look clean and fresh and works well for low and middle-class Indian families because it means their clothes last much longer.’

Dewan provides mortgage finance for people who live outside India’s major metropolitan areas. ‘Demand for mortgage credit is insatiable,’ says Cornell. ‘For years, we have seen four generations of family live under one roof. But increasingly youngsters want to own their own homes.’

Cornell goes out to India six or seven times a year. Although he loves the country, he is sufficiently independent of mind to realise that Indian stock markets face headwinds in the form of a strong US dollar, rising oil prices, contagion from woes in other emerging markets, and the threat of trade wars sparked by President Trump.

Set against this, he is reassured by the strong recovery in corporate earnings growth which should exceed 20 per cent next year.

Nick Greenwood, manager of investment trust Miton Global Opportunities, is an admirer of India Capital Growth. His trust holds a stake, believing it to be a great way to get exposure to India.

====== 957 ========

HOW TO DODGE THE PITALLS OF BUYING A HOME WITH A PARTNER OR FRIENDS

High house prices make buying a home as a couple tough, but for an individual getting on the property ladder can seem all but impossible.

Without the extra borrowing power that two salaries can bring, even those who can raise a decent deposit will find buying solo can give them a mortgage headache.

It's no surprise, therefore that an increasing number of young couples are considering taking out joint mortgages early on in their relationships - or buying with friends and family to clamber on the housing ladder.

61 per cent of millennials say getting a mortgage is a bigger commitment than getting married

A study has revealed that almost two-thirds of millennials believe buying a house with their significant other is a bigger commitment than getting married - and should be prioritised as such.

The research, from Barclays Mortgages, revealed that young couples in the North East are most likely to buy a house first, with 51 per cent saying they would put a mortgage over marriage.

Southerners are keener to tie the knot than their northern counterparts, or simply find have put off buying due to more expensive property. In London, 33 per cent of couples would choose to secure the keys to their first home before walking down the aisle.

Hannah Bernard, head of mortgages at Barclays, said: 'With house prices at an all-time high, it's no surprise that young couples see a joint mortgage as the ultimate act of modern-day commitment.'

But it's not just young couples who are committing to mortgages outside of marriage - buying with friends or siblings is becoming an increasingly popular option for aspiring homeowners, according to research from M&S Bank.

Its research showed that 60 per cent of those aged 18 to 35 said they would consider taking out a mortgage as a group to make home ownership a reality, compared to just 26 per cent of people aged over 36.

Buying a house with friends or a partner: how to protect yourself If you're planning on buying a home with your other half or are looking to buy with friends, there can be serious financial risks involved if you don't take the right precautions. Read our guide on how to protect yourself when buying a home with others

The survey found that a fifth of millennials do not believe they will be ever be in a position to own their own home.

Saving for a deposit was stated as the main barrier, with 59 per cent of 18 to 35-year-olds having less than £1,000 in savings.

Paul Stokes of M&S Bank said: 'Many young people are trapped in Generation Rent because house prices seem increasingly out of reach.

'For many, home ownership appears possible only through sacrificing certain aspects of their current lifestyle – be that moving to a different area, moving to a smaller property than they're renting, or seeing their disposable income take a significant hit.

'But our research has shown that millennials are keen for an alternative option – and joint home ownership is one of them.'

Most millennials would take a mortgage with two or more people to get on the property ladder

What are the risks of buddying up to buy?

Buying with friends or as an unmarried couple may give young people a foot onto the property ladder that they wouldn't have otherwise had, but there can be serious financial risks involved if the right steps aren't taken.

The risks involve everything from unequal deposits or mortgage contributions failing to be properly accounted for when the property is eventually sold, to one person wanting to move out while the other wants to remain.

These are issues for both those buying as a couple, or with friends.

While marriage comes with a series of legal protections in the event of divorce, for unmarried cohabitants a break down in the relationship could see awkward negotiations.

Aside from added legal costs, there is also the risk of one party wanting to sell their share of the property before the other - and of course there is the issue of who gets what once the property is sold.

There are some simple steps you can take however to protect yourself against complications further down the line.

Traditionally, homes have been owned as joint tenants.

As joint tenants, the home's equity is owned equally, regardless of what was individually contributed in terms of a deposit.

If one party dies then ownership of the property will automatically transfer to the other owner. If a couple split up then the default position is that you both own the property equally.

As joint tenants you cannot leave a portion of your home to anyone else in your will.

Buying and owning as 'tenants in common' rather than joint tenants can mean that each person owns a defined part of the property, whether this is 50 / 50 or unequal shares.

Taking measures such as signing a 'declaration of trust' can help ensure you and your co-buyers get back what you put in when it comes time to sell the property - or protect you in the event that your co-owner dies.

The declaration of trust can include:

The percentage split of how the property is owned

How much each party contributed towards the cost of buying the home and that specific sums should be returned to them first before the remaining proceeds are split

How responsibilities for the mortgage or any other expenses should fall

How the property should be divided if the owners split up

Those buying with friends, family, or a partner should discuss these matters and how to own the property with their solicitor and agree things before going ahead with a purchase, particularly if putting in unequal shares.

====== 958 ========

TAYLOR WIMPEY'S LEASEHOLD SCANDAL REDRESS FUND HAS ONLY SPENT ONE TENTH OF ITS BUDGET

House builder Taylor Wimpey pitted itself as one of the good ones when it set aside £130million to put right the situation it had created for thousands of British leaseholders.

But it has now emerged that as of July, less than a tenth of this money had so far gone to helping customers - and signing up to the scheme could mean signing away your rights to any potential future legal recourse.

Last year it was revealed that the developer, one of several, had sold homebuyers leasehold houses between 2007 and 2011 with ground rents that doubled every 10 years.

It then sold on the freeholds to third party firms, many of which are free to raise other associated charges.

It has left thousands of homeowners facing spiralling costs they did not expect and cannot afford to pay and has effectively rendered many homes unsaleable.

Less than a tenth of the money set aside by the developer has so far gone to helping customers

Then, in April 2017, Taylor Wimpey announced that its customers could apply to have the terms of their leases changed to be fairer - and that it had set aside £130million to pay for these changes.

But 15 months on from the launch of the scheme, company results showed that just £11.2million of the fund had so far paid out - with the developer claiming many customers are yet to apply.

A Taylor Wimpey spokesman said: 'We have negotiated with freeholders and reached agreements to enable a significant majority of our customers with a 10-year doubling ground rent clause to convert their lease terms to an RPI-based structure, if they choose to do so.

'A lease conversion is a formal legal process which is undertaken by way of a deed of variation, and each one takes time to complete.

Leaseholder Jo Darbyshire claims she was never informed about the redress scheme

'While a number of customers have completed this process, others are either in the application stage or have yet to apply, as it is entirely voluntary.

'The cost incurred by Taylor Wimpey to-date represents lease conversions that have been completed so far.'

The builder has been keen to stress that it did not break the law while selling the new builds with the onerous terms attached but it's now acknowledged that property owners should be offered fairer leases.

And it says it proactively wrote to all customers when the scheme was launched to make them aware of their options.

But Joanne Darbyshire, a Taylor Wimpey customer with doubling ground rent, claims that she was never informed about the redress scheme.

'We've had nothing,' she said. 'There is another Taylor Wimpey development down the road from ours that got a letter from a freeholder but nothing from Taylor Wimpey.

'We've never had a letter. There's still loads of people who have no idea that this scheme exists - every day we meet people who have no idea.'

Darbyshire has not entered the scheme, believing that the builder should instead be offering customers the opportunity to buy their freeholds at the price originally offered when they bought the house.

In Darbyshire's case, she said this would be around £5,900 - instead of the £22,000 to £33,000 she says she would have to pay now.

How to claim on Taylor Wimpey's leasehold scheme

WHO CAN CLAIM FOR HELP ON THEIR LEASEHOLD? Around 1.4million houses in Britain are leasehold properties. Many developers included aggressive 'doubling clauses' in sales contracts which hike ground rents at an alarming rate, ultimately trapping some people in homes they cannot sell. Once the purchases were complete, they often then sold on freeholds to third party companies without informing the homeowners. If you feel you have been mis-sold your leasehold new build property, you can take your developer to task via National Trading Standards. The SRA, the body responsible for regulating solicitors, also says you should make a complaint if a solicitor did not fully inform you of the nature of your lease.

In order to benefit from Taylor Wimpey's scheme, homeowners have to pay a solicitor to produce a deed of variation on their lease - which typically costs around £1,100.

Taylor Wimpey then reimburses homeowners for these legal costs, but only up to an undisclosed, capped amount.

This is Money spoke with a solicitor who has represented leaseholders affected by the scandal, who said that developers agreeing to vary unreasonable ground rent usually contribute around £750 towards the cost.

James Swede, of Darlingtons Solicitors, said that the process also involves the leaseholder signing a settlement agreement with the developer which prevents them from taking any action against the developer in the future.

Taylor Wimpey did not comment on the number of customers still affected, or how long it expects the scheme to run for, stating the low take-up reflected the fact that not everyone eligible had yet begun their applications.

Will leaseholders get any money back?

Taylor Wimpey has voluntarily set aside £130million to bring its customers' ground rents in line with retail price index measure of inflation instead (currently 3.1 per cent), in what it calls its 'ground rent review assistance scheme'.

ARE YOU STUCK IN THE LEASEHOLD TRAP? Have a leasehold issue? get in touch: will.kirkman@thisismoney.co.uk

In order to do this, the builder has to effectively pay off the third party freeholders, who now won't get the rising rents from the freeholds that they thought they would.

If you apply to have the deed of variation on your lease, some of your legal fees will be reimbursed, but only up to the maximum cap.

In other words, it is likely to cost you money up front to switch over to a newer version of the lease but it's likely to save you money in the long-run.

A spokesman from Taylor Wimpey confirmed that the 'significant majority' of customers can apply to have their terms changed.

>> How to check the lease, get it changed and challenge your freeholder

====== 959 ========

UNITY MUTUAL LAUNCHES A NEW LIFETIME ISA PAYING SAVERS 1.25%

When it looks like a cash savings account, acts like a cash savings account but isn't a cash savings account, what is it?

It's a stocks and shares investment account, according to Unity Mutual.

The friendly society has taken an unusual approach with its new lifetime Isa by offering an investment Isa, which claims to guarantee both your capital and a minimum rate of interest at 1.25 per cent until April 2019.

Theoretically, it offers customers the benefits of a cash Isa without the risk associated with an investing Isa

Money you deposit will be invested in the society's own portfolio of residential properties, but, over time, will extend to include appropriate government bonds, corporate bonds and equities.

Theoretically, it offers customers the security of a cash Isa without the risk associated with an investing Isa. However, it also offers lower returns than investing in the stock market.

There are two types of lifetime Isa - a cash version and a stocks and shares version. Both qualify for the 25 per cent Government bonus on deposits up to £4,000 a year.

The former is in significantly shorter supply with just three options available - from Newcastle, Nottingham and Skipton building societies.

The latter is more common, with accounts on offer from OneFamily, The Share Centre, Nutmeg, Hargreaves Lansdown, Moneybox, AJ Bell and Foresters Friendly Society.

Unity's version falls firmly into the latter bracket but unlike its competitors, it guarantees a rate of return and promises that the value of your capital will never fall below its original level.

Unity Mutual is part of friendly society Oddfellows. It's not allowed to offer a cash Isa under banking regulations, but it wanted to offer members a lifetime Isa that acts like a cash Isa.

Initially the guaranteed return is set at 1.25 per cent, but in March Unity will assess what it expects to make from the underlying investments ahead of the next financial year.

It will then guarantee to deliver that return to customers. It could well be less than 1.25 per cent.

A spokesman for the society said: 'As a non-profit making mutual Unity is committed to keeping the return profitable and one that remains competitive.

'This is a stocks and shares Isa, so it’s invested in a range of investments, however, there is no risk for the investor. Unity Mutual is carrying the risk. It is guaranteeing the return and the capital.'

As this is a stocks and shares Isa savings held with Unity are covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme up to £50,000. Cash savings would be covered up to £85,000.

The account can be opened online with an initial investment of £250, or by setting up a direct debit of £25 a month.

How does it compare?

For the moment, Unity's guaranteed rate beats the recently launched 1.1 per cent paid on Newcastle Building Society's cash lifetime Isa and both existing alternatives from Skipton BS and Nottingham BS, paying 1 per cent respectively.

However, the society reserves the right to change the rate from April next year, so it could go up or down.

But remember that it's not actually a cash Isa. If you're comparing it to other investing lifetime Isas, 1.25 per cent looks relatively low as a return.

Figures from the Barclays Equity Gilt study for 2018 show that over the past 118 years, UK equities returned 5.1 per cent on average per year and UK bonds returned 1.3 per cent after adjusting for inflation.

That's not guaranteed however, and there are years when investment values fall.

CASH VS INVESTING >> Read more about the benefits of investing versus saving in cash

It's a question of weighing up risk with the reward on offer.

The Unity account also offers free life cover of up to £5,000 if customers contribute a minimum of £1,000 per year over the next five tax years.

This is a nice perk, although, realistically it's unlikely that £5,000 is going to prove sufficient cover for many people.

Rachel Springall, of Moneyfacts, said: 'Due to the limited choice available on lifetime Isas, this offering will likely grab the attention of prospective savers looking for something extra as a sweetener.

'As with any lifetime Isa, savers must ensure that they meet the terms and conditions of the account so that they do not fall foul of penalties.'

Personal finance expert Andrew Hagger added: 'It sounds pretty complex and not overly appealing with the rate of return subject to review every year - I think I'd plump for Newcastle Building Society cash based Lisa at 1.10 per cent as it's far more straightforward.

'The £5,000 life cover may sound tempting but in reality the premium for such a low level of cover for a relatively young customer wouldn't cost a great deal.'

Savings calculator Work out how a lump sum or regular monthly savings would grow Lump sum £

and / or

Monthly saving £

Duration years

Annual interest rate %

Your savings will be worth: Check the best savings rates Find the top deals in our independent best-buy tables

Is it any good?

Lifetime Isas are a great option for those aged between 18 and 39 who know they are saving a deposit to buy their first home or retirement.

By depositing money into a lifetime Isa, you'll receive an additional £1 from the Government for every £4 saved up to maximum £4,000 saved a year.

So long as you use the money to help pay for your first home, and the property is worth a maximum of £450,000, you can withdraw the money free of income and capital gains tax before you hit retirement age.

Otherwise you face a hefty penalty of 25 per cent on any withdrawals unless you need the money as you are terminally ill. That's 25 per cent of your whole balance including deposits, interest or profit.

Until recently there has been little choice for those looking to take advantage of the Government bonus if they prefer saving in cash to the stocks and shares alternatives.

Skipton BS was the first - and only - provider to offer the cash Lifetime Isa until August this year. It proved extremely popular with customer numbers breaching the 100,000 barrier earlier this year.

Nottingham BS was the second provider to join the market, launching back in August but accounts are only available to open in branch at present. Newcastle launched its version last month.

Potential first-time buyers will find that Help to Buy Isas are offering better interest rates, which come with the same 25 per cent Government bonus.

Newcastle BS pays 2.56 per cent gross on its Help to Buy Isa, which is higher than any Lifetime Isa and better than can be found on Isas outside of both schemes.

Lifetime Isas: The basics To open a lifetime Isa you need to be aged between 18 and 40. You can choose between an investment Lifetime Isa and a cash one. There are currently seven providers offering the former and four available for cash savings. The investment options are offered direct by OneFamily, The Share Centre, Nutmeg, Hargreaves Lansdown, Moneybox, AJ Bell and Foresters Friendly Society. On top of interest or profits you get a cash bonus worth up to £1,000 a year added to every £4,000 saved into a Lifetime Isa each year. You must use the cash either to buy your first home or wait until the age of 60 to withdraw it for use in retirement. Otherwise you face a hefty penalty of 25 per cent on any withdrawals unless you need the money as you are terminally ill. That's 25 per cent of your whole balance including deposits, interest or profit. The 25 per cent bonus is paid up until you reach the age of 50. If you max this out, it's worth up to a £32,000 boost from the Government. If you want to use the cash to buy a house, the maximum value of home you can use it to purchase is up to £450,000. The lifetime Isa effectively took over from the Help to Buy Isa which will be closed in November 2019. The Help to Buy Isa allows buyers to purchase homes worth up to £250,000 outside of the capital, or up to £450,000 in London. If you already have one of these you can transfer over the savings if you wish. To find out more read our guide on the benefits of the Help to Buy Isa vs Lifetime Isa.





====== 960 ========

THE BEST SAVINGS ACCOUNTS THAT BEAT INFLATION

There are now 29 savings accounts that match or beat inflation.

Savers failed to lose more ground between savings rates and the rising cost of living when CPI inflation unexpectedly remained steady at 2.4 per cent in October, according to the ONS yesterday.

This means they can still pick from the same number of deals that in theory keep pace with inflation, according to data from Savings Champion.

Inflation has been riding high since late 2016, as the fall in the pound after the Brexit vote hit, but before that CPI was below target

I say in theory, because inflation is a backward looking measure, while those savings accounts are promising interest in the future.

And as they are all fixed rate deals, with the shortest over three years, crucially the beating inflation label depends on what happens in the future not the past.

The good news is the Bank of England tips inflation to fall back to its 2 per cent target over the next three years.

The bad news is it also cautioned in its November Inflation Report that those forecasts depend on a ‘smooth transition’ for Brexit.

In the event of a chaotic no-deal departure for Britain from the EU, the Bank was subtly pointing out that all bets are off.

A better measure of whether savings grow faster than inflation eats away at them is an easy access account, as it gives the best approximation of where we are now.

Unfortunately, a sizeable gap still remains between the top easy access savings deal, Marcus’ 1.5 per cent rate, and inflation.

So, what should you do?

You could take a top fixed rate that beats inflation now.

The best on offer are five-year fixes at 2.71 per cent from Secure Trust, or 2.68 per cent from Gatehouse. Alternatively, if you’d rather take the shortest option possible, over three years there is a 2.42 per cent rate from Al-Rayan, and 2.41 per cent from Secure Trust.

But at a time when inflation is forecast to subside and interest rates are tipped to rise, you may not want to lock your money away for so long.

Forgo 0.4 percentage points or so and you could lock cash away for just one year instead, taking Secure Trust’s 2.03 per cent deal, or Al-Rayan Bank, or OakNorth’s 2.02 per cent offers.

You could even build a ladder of fixed rates, with cascading rates and different lengths. For example, a pot divided between five-year, three-year and one-year bonds, means that you can target the top rates but also have money regularly maturing to hopefully be put into better deals as interest rates rise.

Personally, I'd be reluctant to lock cash away for five years for a 2.7 per cent return and would look to invest money that I was happy to think about over this time-length.

For ideas on how to do that with investment trusts and funds that also aim to protect your money against market falls, read my recent Minor Investor column.

What should be avoided is doing nothing.

Savings Champion flags how if inflation stays steady at 2.4 per cent, £50,000 left in an old easy access account paying 0.15 per cent would fall to just £44,743 in real terms over five years.

Pick Marcus’ 1.5 per cent easy access deal instead and in real terms you still lose money, but you would have £3,098 more at £47,841.

The other top easy access deals on offer are from Bank of Cyprus at 1.47 per cent and the Post Office at 1.45 per cent.

One of the unfortunate side effects of low interest rates has been a vast amount of savers’ money left gathering dust in legacy accounts that pay pitiful interest.

Almost all of us are guilty of this to some extent - we should spend a bit of time sorting out our accounts and stop giving banks free money.

====== 961 ========

NS&I BOSS HITS OUT AT EASY CREDIT CULTURE THAT TRAPS US IN DEBT

NS&I boss Ian Ackerley wants to create a culture of saving in Britain

A decade of super-low interest rates since the financial crisis has been devastating for savings and savers. Motor sports enthusiast Ian Ackerley, as Britain's saver-in-chief, wants to change all that.

'If there is one thing I could do, it would be to change the culture to create a country where people understand the need to put money aside for the future, rather than just spend it all the time,' says 55-year-old Ackerley, a former Barclays banker who now heads National Savings & Investments (NS&I).

The would-be Sultan of Savings is enormously frustrated by the 'shop until you drop' philosophy that drives Britain's economy.

Launching a fusillade against the UK's spend-now-and-hang-the-consequences society, he says: 'Generation on generation, it's become easier to borrow and easier and easier to spend.'

The big banks and credit card companies must take a huge amount of the blame for destroying the savings culture.

Zero rate credit cards, come-on consumer credit offers, the return of 90 per cent and more mortgages and pathetic interest rates on savings and deposit accounts have contributed to the UK becoming one of the most heavily indebted countries in the world.

'I want to make it easier and easier to save,' Ackerley says. Historically, national savings were seen as a safe but deadly dull place for citizens to lock up their money.

As a head who has worked in the private sector in the UK and overseas, Ackerley believes that he has an enormous opportunity.

He IS driving a digital agenda so savers can check accounts on mobile apps and keep track of their premium bond winnings.

He doesn't just see national savings as a means of plugging a hole in the public finances, as critical as that might be, but as a policy instrument to deliver objectives such as aiding pensioners.

Heyday: Vintage National Savings posters from the 1950s and 1960s. The big banks and credit card companies must take a huge amount of the blame for destroying the savings culture

The NS&I chief places the April 2017-18 issue of an investment guaranteed growth bond in this category.

'This was something of a policy project agreed with government. It was about trying to help increase interest rates in the market,' he says.

The bond offered a return of 2.2 per cent, much higher than most, admittedly pathetic, private sector offerings. 'The net result was we raised rates in the market and we were particularly pleased about this.'

One complaint is that when the UK is in an interest rate hiking cycle (as in the last year) banks and building societies lose no time in passing on the cost to mortgage customers. But more often than not, small savers, seven times more numerous than borrowers, rarely see the same benefit.

When Bank of England governor Mark Carney began the process of trying to normalise interest rates in 2017, lifting bank rate from 0.25 per cent to 0.5 per cent, NS&I followed suit.

In contrast to the banks, it passed on the whole quarter of a point to savers.

Following the second increase this year Ackerley admits they were more selective. It cut the rate on its Direct Isa by 0.25 per cent in the weeks after base rate went up.

It has also recently changed the index-linked bonds so they follow CPI inflation rather than RPI. This sounds technical, but it means half a million savers will see their rate reduced by a third.

Ian Ackerley, 55 Job: Chief executive of National Savings & Investments since 2017 Pay: £180,000 a year Family: Born in Manchester, married to Kate, with two children at university Educated: William Hulme's Grammar School, Psychology degree from St Andrews and MBA from the London Business School Career: Previous employers include Shell, McKinsey, Virgin Money and Barclays Hobbies: Photography, Lego and motor sports Drives: A souped-up Volkswagen Golf Favourite possession: a Canon 5D Mark III camera Favourite book: Bleak House by Charles Dickens Favourite film: The Incredibles

Nevertheless, anyone with the basic investment account has received a 0.4 percentage point increase of the 0.5 per cent added by the Bank.

In last month's Budget, Chancellor Philip Hammond cut national savings more slack by increasing the amount it can raise in the current financial year from the £6billion announced in the spring budget to £9billion – though that is lower than in previous years.

By far the most successful product offered by NS&I is the premium bond, which appeals to British people's love of a gamble.

It allows the public to have a flutter without losing their stake. Enthusiasm remains as great as ever with £78billion sitting with Ernie, the computer which spews out the winners.

The bonds attracted £6billion of new savings last year, following £7.7billion in the previous year.

'It's still very relevant to a lot of people in the UK who find it a great way to save based around a draw rather than a straight interest rate, at the equivalent of 1.4 per cent return and tax-free, it is quite competitive,' says Ackerley

So what are the odds of a premium bond win? Turning from saver-in-chief to bookie-in-chief Ackerley barely pauses for breath, saying the odds at present 'are 24.5 thousand to one.

But if you hold the full £50,000 that would potentially mean winning about two prizes a month.'

There is the remote potential that one could be the £1million prize.

But does Ackerley hope to win the premium bonds himself?

Alas, his big regret is that by taking the job, he had to cash in his own haul, to eliminate potential conflict of interest – otherwise he'd definitely have a flutter!

====== 962 ========

THE EASY ACCESS SAVINGS BEST BUYS WITH HIDDEN CATCHES

Seven of the top ten easy-access accounts now come with hidden catches, new research reveals.

Banks and building societies launched deals in the wake of the Marcus account from Goldman Sachs — but a third of all easy-access accounts have a catch.

Charlotte Nelson, finance expert at data analysts Moneyfacts, says: 'Savers may assume easy-access means unlimited access in an account that's simple to understand.

Banks and building societies launched deals in the wake of the Marcus account from Goldman Sachs — but a third of all easy-access accounts have a catch

'This is not the case. You need to look closely at the terms and conditions.'

Savers have opened 100,000 Marcus accounts in the 40 days since its launch to snap up its top 1.5 per cent rate — it includes a 0.15 percentage point bonus for 12 months, so your rate falls to 1.35 per cent unless you remember to renew your bonus.

Bank of Cyprus UK Online Easy Access account pays 1.47 per cent, which falls to 1 per cent after 12 months.

Family Building Society Premium Saver pays 1.45 per cent with no bonus and no withdrawal restrictions, but you can't put any more money in after December 7.

The 1.45 per cent Post Office Online Saver falls to 0.25 per cent after a year. The next best is 1.42 per cent on Virgin Money Double Take E-Saver and Tesco Internet Saver.

With Virgin, you get just two withdrawals in a calendar year. Tesco has a 12-month bonus of 0.87 percentage points — then the rate drops to 0.55 per cent.

Sainsbury's Bank Defined Access Saver at 1.4 per cent has a limit of three withdrawals a year.

The straightforward accounts in the top ten are from Charter Savings Bank, Shawbrook Bank and Kent Reliance, all at 1.4 per cent.

sy.morris@dailymail.co.uk

====== 963 ========

FAMILY OF HSBC CUSTOMERS MAY BE BLOCKED FROM PAYING INTO LOVED ONES' ACCOUNTS

Family members of HSBC customers may be blocked from making cash payments into their loved ones' accounts from next month.

Grandparents will not be able to put cash into grandchildren's accounts at HSBC branches from December 3.

Grandparents will not be able to put cash into grandchildren's accounts at HSBC branches from 3 December

Barclays, Santander and Nationwide have already axed this service.

You'll only be able to pay in cash if your name is on the account, or you have power of attorney or a third party mandate letting you act on another's behalf.

Otherwise you must do it online or by cheque.

Rachel Springall from data firm Moneyfacts says: 'Stopping cash payments by third parties could crack down on potential money launderers but is going to be inconvenient for those who prefer dealing with cash.'

a.murray@dailymail.co.uk

====== 964 ========

ASK TONY: I HAD TO PAY FOR A YEAR'S CAR COVER EVEN THOUGH I ONLY USED THE POLICY FOR TWO DAYS

My wife had fully comprehensive car insurance with the AA for many years. When her policy ran out on March 17, she agreed to renew and pay by monthly direct debit.

On March 19, two days later, someone damaged her car while it was parked outside our house.

The vehicle was written off as uneconomical to repair and the AA paid the market value, less the excess. We then decided not to replace the car so cancelled the direct debit as no insurance was needed.

A month or so later the AA phoned to say that as the third party was unknown, the accident would be classed as my wife's fault.

Communication breakdown: One reader was left furious after being forced to forced to pay for a year's AA breakdown cover when he had cancelled the policy after just two months

She would, therefore, be liable for the £258 balance of the year's premium and would lose her no claims bonus.

I said that in my opinion this was not justified either legally or morally as we had effectively only been insured for two days and had not replaced the car. No one I've spoken to believes this is right. I'd like your thoughts.

A. L., Stockton-on-Tees.

Well, I know this will come as a disappointment, but I'm going to disagree with you and with everyone else you've spoken to. But I am publishing your letter to iron out some common misconceptions.

When you bought the insurance you were entering into a contract for a year even if you chose to pay monthly.

It does not matter whether you have an accident on the first day of coverage or the 365th, you are still liable for the whole year's premium if you make a claim.

AA stuck to its part of the bargain by paying out. You wouldn't expect it to say you were only two days into the contract therefore it would only pay 2/365th. Equally, if it said you'd only paid one month's premium and so it would only pay 1/12th, you would have had cause for complaint.

Both I and the AA understand it can be a shock to find that an unknown person has damaged your car — and even more so when the damage is so extensive that the car is written off.

However, because the person who caused the damage chose to break the law and disappear without owning up, AA will have to meet the cost and this falls on to your wife's policy.

Your wife has made a claim. If she had paid for the full year in advance there would be no refund due, therefore under a monthly payment scheme the full year is still due.

The covering letter to customers and the policy terms and conditions both make this clear: 'If you have made a total loss claim, there will be no refund available and the full annual premium will be required.'

The insurer has honoured the claim and so it is right that you keep your part of the bargain.

The issue would have been entirely different if your wife had decided to give up driving and sell the car without there being an accident, or possibly if the claim had been minor.

In that case she would have received a refund on the cost of the annual premium, minus any administration charge.

I understand you have made an official complaint to the AA. In your shoes I would drop it, as I don't believe you have any chance of success.

Straight to the point About 11 years ago I bought £5,000 worth of U.S. dollars from the Post Office in the form of American Express travellers' cheques. I still have about £1,500 worth left. Where can I cash them in? P. A., Arlesey, Beds. Some 3,600 Post Office branches will buy back American Express travellers' cheques. For information, see postoffice.co.uk/travellers-cheques-faqs or call the Post Office's travel money helpline on 0345 850 0900. *** My wife and I have investment accounts with Cofunds, but since they were transferred to Aegon it has been impossible to access them online. I have had numerous long, frustrating conversations with their call centre which have proved fruitless. G.M., Buxton, Derbys. It seems your complaint letters were not registered properly, so were not followed up. Aegon apologises for poor service and has given you £500 as a gesture of goodwill. *** Our flight from Budapest to Amsterdam was delayed by seven hours in April. I applied for compensation from airline KLM for myself and my husband, which should have been £702 in total. But we have received just one payment of £351. A.S., Accrington, Lancs. KLM says it is sorry to hear about your experience and that it sounds as though an employee entered your bank details incorrectly for the second payment. You should now have received the remaining £351.

I had an email from Norton saying anti-virus protection for my computer was due for renewal on August 10, at a cost of £69.99.

Last year it was £24.99 and was renewed on August 28. I rang Norton to cancel as I can get a better offer elsewhere. I was told there was an £80 cancellation fee.

I tried to cancel the automatic renewal but failed and £69.99 was taken from my credit card on August 10.

M. G., Beds.

I took your complaint to Symantec, owner of Norton. It seems you were contacted by a third party that impersonates the Norton brand.

Norton says there is no fee to cancel automatic renewal services for its subscriptions.

The number you called is a scam line and appears on useful website shouldIanswer.co.uk. Similarly helpful sites include who-called.co.uk.

Norton has explained how automatic renewal works and removed this feature from your subscription. It offered a full refund of £69.99 but you said you would like to keep using its service so it gave a partial refund as a goodwill gesture.

A spokesman says: 'We take any threat to our customers or abuse of our brand very seriously. Norton does not authorise or endorse any third party to provide support for Norton products, nor to contact our customers.

'Support is offered directly from the company and included in customers' subscriptions.'

Norton goes on to say that scams of this type are a significant problem and that it has been working to educate users for years about them.

It advises customers to look carefully before clicking a link, including when using sponsored search results through internet search engines.

They are further warned to beware of unsolicited phone calls claiming to be from Norton.

====== 965 ========

I TOOK OUT 50 WONGA LOANS AND NOW I CAN'T GET A MORTGAGE

I first took a loan with payday lender Wonga when I was at university to plug a funding gap between my finals and starting my graduate trainee position.

That led to a ridiculous spiral of 50 loans in 48 months, between 2013 and 2017. I raised an affordability complaint and Wonga offered me a full refund on a couple of loans totalling £4,000 and removal from my credit record.

I rejected the offer because I didn't think it went far enough and took the case to the Financial Ombudsman Service.

As we all know, Wonga went into liquidation and I've more of less kissed goodbye to any hope of a full refund of the interest.

The now defunct Wonga was notoriously known for levying interest rates in excess of 5,000 per cent before the city watchdog introduced measures to curtail this practice

I'm happy to report that I have sorted my finances but I can't get a mortgage from the mainstream banks I've approached due to the loans on my credit record.

The FOS don't have any comment and I just get a generic email from Wonga but I understand the administrators are responsible for the finances of a company in liquidation.

Can I get Wonga to honour their original agreement and would I finally be able to get a mortgage if I do?

I just want to sort it all out and put it all down to a serious learning curve. Sue, via email

Myron Jobson of This is Money says: Your case perfectly illustrates the dangers of taking out a payday loan to paper over holes in your finances and becoming trapped in a cycle of debt.

After probing further, you told me you took out loans totalling £40,000 and paid interest amounting to £12,000. So you spent £52,000 in repayments - a staggering sum.

Payday loan companies are known for charging high rates of interest. The now defunct Wonga was notoriously known for levying interest rates in excess of 5,000 per cent before the city watchdog introduced measures to curtail this practice.

You should be congratulated for getting your finances back in order, but unfortunately, your past actions has had a telltale effect on your ability to get a mortgage to buy a property.

Get financial help from our experts Suffering from a financial problem? One of our experts may be able to help. Email myron.jobson@thisismoney.co.uk with the details you wish to disclose

In all honesty, you may find it difficult to get Wonga to honour the deal it offered you because you refused it and the firm has since plunged into liquidation.

A spokesman for the FOS told This is Money that it won't be able to process any complaints about Wonga any further, or work on any new cases now that the administrator has been appointed.

If you still wish to pursue your case against the company, you'll have to contact the firm's administrator Grant Thornton, but resolving customer complaints is unlikely to be high up on the administrators' list of priorities.

It is not all doom and gloom however as you may still be able to secure a mortgage.

Usually, your credit score won't be damaged by a payday loan - as long as you repay it in full and on time according to credit rating agency Experian.

But lenders, credit reference agencies and other companies will calculate your score using their own methods and criteria. So a payday loan may affect your score differently with different organisations.

Put simply, some lenders may approve your application while others may say no. Ultimately, the decision often comes down to the credit score.

You may argue the fact that you never defaulted on loan repayments demonstrates your ability to honour debt arrangements without missing a payment.

But not all lenders see it this way. We've asked a mortgage to explain why.

David Hollingworth, of mortgage broker London & Country, replies: Payday loan use can be viewed unfavourably by lenders as it can be seen as a sign that affordability is stretched and call sustainability into question.

That's particularly true where use of payday loans has become habitual and mortgage lenders may feel it's a sign of some distress in the borrower's financial situation.

David Hollingworths says payday loan use can be viewed unfavourably by lenders

While some lenders will be fairly clear that they don't accept payday loan use most will treat each case on its merits but persistent use of short term finance may well affect an application negatively.

That may be the case where all payments have been met on time but will also be true if payments were missed or defaults incurred.

It sounds like the use of these loans is of an historic nature and building a track record clear of loan use should help improve the options on offer.

It therefore also makes sense to ensure that there aren't any other factors or credit blips that may be affecting the credit score.

Credit reports are easily available for customers from the major credit reference agencies at little or no cost and offers the opportunity to see what lenders are looking at and identify any other issues.

Myron Jobson adds: Individuals with a credit history that is considered poor by a given lender risk getting declined or only gaining access to the more expensive mortgage products.

But the adage 'time is a great' healer can apply to your credit score.

Your credit history stretches back six years - a period of time agreed between the industry and the regulators - so some of your earlier loans would have already slipped off your credit report.

Lenders are likely to view your application more favourably as the period of time since your last Wonga loan widens, as it shows that you are no longer reliant on that type of loan.

The more you can show that your finances are back on track, the better the options available to you.

It is worth highlighting again that there are other factors that may have tarnished your credit score and thus your ability to secure a mortgage.

But there are some basic checks you can make to improve your rating. We've outline these in the box below.

====== 966 ========

TONY HETHERINGTON: SORRY, NATIONWIDE BUT YOUR POLICY IS FLAWED

Tony Hetherington is Financial Mail on Sunday's ace investigator, fighting readers corners, revealing the truth that lies behind closed doors and winning victories for those who have been left out-of-pocket. Find out how to contact him below.

P.D. writes: I have been a loyal Nationwide account holder for more than 40 years, with a Flex Plus account for more than 12 years. For a monthly fee, this offers benefits including family travel insurance covering dependent children in full-time education.

I booked a family holiday to the US and Canada to celebrate my 60th birthday but had to cancel after suffering a head injury. Our insurance claim has been rejected for my student son's share of the holiday costs as he was 22 when I booked.

The reader says he was forced to cancel his 60th birthday celebration holiday in the US and Canada for injury but Nationwide rejected his insurance claim

Given its size, Nationwide attracts fewer complaints in my mailbag than you might expect. Certainly, it attracts fewer complaints that claim it hides behind small print – yet that is exactly what has happened here.

The society was quick to point me towards a section of its website that includes a lengthy set of terms and conditions applying to your travel insurance policy.

The website says the policy covers 'all children...who at the start date of the journey have not reached the age of 19 or not reached the age of 22 if in full-time education'.

Nationwide added: 'The customer would have been sent or given the policy document at account opening and he would have signed to say that he agreed to the terms of the account.'

Pretty open and shut, you might think. But hang on. The document runs to 51 pages of small print and page 8 says: 'This policy wording confirms who is eligible for Nationwide's Flex Plus current account travel insurance.' The shortlist includes the 'current account holder's dependent children'.

There are no ifs, no buts, and nothing to tell you to look elsewhere in the 51 pages. The only mention of any kind of age limit on cover says: 'There is an upper age limit of 75.'

Yet, sure enough, page 14 of the same brochure does indeed say that dependent children are not covered by the policy once they have reached 22.

The problem is that there is nothing on page 8 to warn policyholders to flip six pages ahead, where they will find that not everyone listed on page 8 is eligible.

You have told me that you have now obtained a new version of the policy document, via a relative who is also a Nationwide customer. The new version clearly states the age limit instead of – as you put it – 'hiding it'.

Nationwide has admitted that the policy brochure was indeed updated last year. This did not help you though, as your brochure was issued in 2016. This is not just a matter of claiming back your son's share of the travel costs.

Imagine what would have happened if your son had needed to claim for something more serious, only to find he was not insured after all.

Nationwide has told me it sympathises with you over your head injury and cancelled holiday, but insists that its policy terms are clear.

It explained: 'Each year we send a reminder to customers to check that insurances available under our Flex Plus account are still suitable for their needs.'

This is quite right. But the policy brochure itself was flawed. Why read on, once you have established that your family is covered?

I think you have a good case for lodging a complaint with the Financial Ombudsman Service. An assurance on an early page of a policy should not be contradicted or weakened by small print further on.

We're watching you A fraudster who ran an elaborate £7million share scam has been jailed for seven and a half years. Appearing at Bristol Crown Court last Monday, Adrian Eyre, 64, from Derby, was also ordered to hand over £1.9million to compensate his 339 victims. If the money is not paid within three months, he could face a further prison sentence. Eyre set up Oxford Renewable Fuel Limited in 2013, claiming he put £1.5million of his own money into a project backed by 40 scientists to develop biogas that would power a jet engine. He needed investors to complete the scheme and the business would then be floated or sold. Police were tipped off by a bank employee who became concerned when an 85-year-old customer tried to transfer hundreds of thousands of pounds to buy shares. Detectives from Avon and Somerset Police then found Eyre's claims were false. He was selling his own shares in the company without informing investors and drained £900,000 from the business, spending £136,000 on a Mercedes Gullwing sports car. Judge William Hart commended Detective Constable Adele Shallcross who worked single-handedly on much of the investigation. He told the court: 'Without her efforts, it is highly likely that the losers would not get back anything.' Eyre's business associate Robert Fucilla, 42, from Barnet in North London, also faced charges of fraud and money laundering but was acquitted. In 2010, I named Fucilla as one of those behind shady stockbroking firm Ascension Securities, which the then City regulator Financial Services Authority investigated for selling high-risk shares to low- risk customers. Fucilla had previously worked at corrupt brokers Pacific Continental Securities and Square Mile Securities. All three firms are now defunct. Eyre was a director of at least three companies whose shares were promoted by Ascension Securities.

WRITE ON: A.R. writes that Axa refuses to insure anyone not possessing an email address

A.R. writes: On renewing my home insurance with Axa, it emerged that it does not insure anyone without an email address. I feel this is discrimination. What are your views?

I would certainly be uneasy about any insurance company that rejected a customer for lack of an email address.

In particular, this would discriminate disproportionately against elderly householders, who are less likely than the young to use the internet.

But I am glad to say that the question does not arise, at least as far as Axa is concerned.

The insurance giant told me: 'As part of our efforts to make insurance as affordable as possible, we aim to communicate with customers electronically, issuing correspondence and policy information via email.'

But you are still welcome to go to any broker and buy the same Axa policy. Leave any correspondence – by email or carrier pigeon – up to that broker to handle.

If you believe you are the victim of financial wrongdoing, write to Tony Hetherington at Financial Mail, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TS or email tony.hetherington@mailonsunday.co.uk. Because of the high volume of enquiries, personal replies cannot be given. Please send only copies of original documents, which we regret cannot be returned.

====== 967 ========

I LOST MY WEDDING RING ON HOLIDAY AND MY INSURANCE COMPANY TOLD ME I CAN'T CLAIM - WHO IS RIGHT?

Unfortunately, I lost my wedding ring swimming in the sea while on holiday in Rhodes.

I have contacted Saga - who I took holiday insurance with - to see if I was covered under the travel policy.

The answer is yes, as long as I have at least one but preferably all three of the following details: a notification of reported loss, proof of ownership and proof of value.

As I only have a photograph of my wedding ring and nothing else, it said I cannot claim.

Am I being unreasonable or are they being unfair? Paul, from Beverley, via email.

A This is Money reader lost his wedding ring in the sea and is now looking to claim on insurance

Grace Gausden, of This is Money, replies: Claiming back on insurance can often be an infuriating process.

That feeling of frustration can be exacerbated when the item that you are looking to claim on is of great sentimental value.

It makes matters more complicated when you don't have the information that you need to make a claim.

You say that you reported this to Saga and it asked for a notification of reported loss - and it is likely most insurers would.

This means that if policyholders can't or don't report a theft or loss to the police, they must provide other independent proof such as a letter from their transport company or hotel.

For many holidaymakers, it would not necessarily be immediately obvious to ask for a letter from their hotel or transport company, testifying to the fact that they had lost an item.

It is understandable that you didn't think to tell the hotel as the ring was dropped in the sea and wasn't somewhere that could likely be found again.

However, it is always worth reading through your insurance policy to make sure that you have everything you need should you have to make a claim.

A representative for Saga said it doesn't have a record of your claim.

They added that if an item was lost and the person who lost it did not know exactly when and where, then they would take this into consideration as there would be no obvious person to report it to.

In your situation, even though you know when and where you lost your ring, there is still no obvious person to report the loss to.

You also say that Saga asked for proof of ownership. As the wedding ring was over 27 years old, there is no receipt that can be produced confirming proof.

Picture proof is often enough evidence in the digital age to give to insurers as proof of ownership.

If there is a piece of jewellery or a valuable item you are taking away with you, it is worth taking a photograph, just in case something happens and you need to show it is yours.

However - you say your claim was turned down - so it would seem that it is not always sufficient and that other forms of proof will be needed.

Saga say that picture proof should be enough, so perhaps some wires have been crossed here.

Greece: Paul was on holiday in Rhodes when he unfortunately lost his wedding ring in the sea

Lastly, you say Saga asked for proof of the value of your wedding ring.

Although you haven't had it valued, it is highly recommended by all insurers that jewellery and other valuables should be valued for insurance purposes.

These valuations should also be updated every couple of years, to make sure that they are correct. It is common for insurers to ask for a valuation when customers are making a claim.

This makes the claiming process smoother and gives customers peace of mind that, should anything happen, they have a way of showing how much their items are worth.

A Saga spokesman said: 'We appreciate that customers may not always have all the desired evidence to support their claim, so we will work with them to get as much detail as possible in order for them to be able to make their claim successfully.'

Regarding your claim, Saga says it doesn't have one on record.

It added: 'Obtaining a police report or notifying someone of a loss is not always feasible or reasonable so we would take this into account when the claim is being reported.

'We do also deal with cases where people have not got up to date valuations for items and in these situations we work with the customer to ascertain the likely value, based on the description they give us, the metal any jewellery is made from, what carat it is and then look what the likely replacement cost might be.'

'We understand that people may not have receipts for items such as wedding rings that have been owned for a long time and therefore photographs of items or even the box that the item came in are often enough proof of ownership.'

When asked if someone did not have to hand any of this information, what would happen, Saga said: 'In our experience, people do tend to be able to provide some of this information.

'We always work with the customer to understand what information they do hold in order to help them make a claim.'

Saga have promised to contact you to review your claim.

====== 968 ========

CAN I CLAIM ON HOME INSURANCE IF A DELIVERY DRIVER STEALS SOMETHING?

I am thinking about using the delivery service from Waitrose where I don't need to be home but can just leave the driver a key.

It sounds like a brilliant idea and will really save me a lot of time and hassle.

I trust Waitrose and all their delivery people have been fantastic in my experience, but I'm not sure whether I need to tell my home insurer that I'm doing this?

For that matter, would I need to tell my insurer if I have a cleaner who has a key and lets herself in while I'm not there? What if I have workmen, such as a painter, plumber or builder there?

What if something were to go missing or get broken and I needed to make a claim?

Would my policy still be valid?

Give someone permission to enter your home and it could complicate an insurance claim

Will Kirkman, of This is Money, replies: Last month Waitrose began trialling a service where delivery drivers let themselves into customers' homes to deliver groceries while they're out.

The service allows a customer with a Yale smart lock to set a temporary access code, which is sent to Waitrose. Drivers can then let themselves in to unpack food into the customer's fridge and leave other groceries on kitchen work tops.

All the while, the driver is wearing a chest-camera, the video from which can be watched by the homeowner the next day.

But what if the camera goes off, and something goes wrong? Or worse, missing? would the fact that you've given the delivery driver permission to enter your home invalidate your contents insurance if something is damaged or stolen?

And what about if the same thing happens if you've let a cleaner, plumber or builder into your house?

We asked some experts what your insurance company would do if you made a claim in this grey area.

Dr Matthew Connell, of the Chartered Insurance Institute, said: When a claim is made, insurance companies need to be confident that a theft has actually taken place, and that someone isn't making a false claim.

Dr Matt Connell, director of policy at the CII

This is relatively easy to establish when there is sign of a break-in and the crime has been reported to the police, but where there is no break-in insurers have no physical evidence of a theft.

This is even more of an issue when cash or other valuables that are easily exchanged have been taken, because it is very difficult to establish what existed in the property in the first place.

As a result, most home insurance policies do not cover theft by people who are in the property without being supervised, such as tenants or domestic staff.

What do the insurers say? An LV= spokesman said: 'In this instance, a customer's home contents insurance would not be invalidated. 'They have taken reasonable care by using a reputable firm with appropriate security measures.' An Axa spokesman said: 'If your policy includes accidental buildings and contents damage, then your contents are covered against damage caused by domestic staff, builders, and you and your family, as long as your home is not left unoccupied beyond the maximum number of consecutive days outlined in the policy. 'However, as each case is different, Axa always considers each claim on an individual basis.'

The same approach goes for people who have access to your home when you are out.

That doesn't mean you have to be looking over their shoulder the whole time anyone comes into the house to do some work, but you should make sure you have valuables secured in a safe place, and not lying around.

For example, in the case of the Waitrose delivery drivers who are allowed into people's homes, those drivers have to wear a chest camera that is effectively monitoring what they do.

If something is damaged or stolen, the chances of your claim being successful will be increased if you have taken some measures to protect yourself – for example, by securing the valuables or items that could be damaged.

Again, it's a good idea to ask your insurer before you leave your home unattended, as insurers will often look at a claim on a case-by-case basis.

You might not be able to claim if something is damaged or stolen by someone you gave keys to

Brian Brown, of financial services research firm Defaqto, said: I personally can see lots of potential issues with the Waitrose example. What's to stop the driver letting an accomplice into the property - chest cameras only show a forward view.

What if the driver doesn't close the door properly? What if the driver picks up a key from inside the house which is later used to commit a burglary?

Defaqto's head of insight Brian Brown

If something is damaged or stolen by the delivery driver or an accomplice I would expect Waitrose to be liable, and the home insurer would expect them to pick up the tab.

I can foresee issues with disputes between your contents insurer and the deliverer's insurer over liability for some claims.

Insurers will not normally ask about regular or occasional staff, such as cleaners, visiting your home, and you're unlikely to need to tell them.

However, if you leave people unattended for long periods, such as a plumber or builder, then you are taking a risk – the insurer might not pay claims if you didn't take basic security precautions, such as being in the house while they were there.

====== 969 ========

I HAVE THOUSANDS OF PESETAS THAT I WANT TO EXCHANGE INTO POUNDS – CAN I STILL DO IT?

I have 50,100 pesetas and want to exchange them into pounds. Is it still possible to do so – and what is the easiest way?

Also, is there a rough indication as to how much this would equate to in sterling? Via e-mail.

According to bureau Leftover Currency the average British household has £65 worth of leftover currency in their drawers and collectively a whopping £1.8bn is gathering dust

Angelique Ruzicka, of This is Money, replies: The Spanish peseta became obsolete when Spain joined the eurozone in January 2002.

Even though years have passed since most countries joined the euro, you're won't be the only one to have defunct foreign currency lying about.

Last year, exchange bureau Leftover Currency said the average British household has £65 worth of foreign currency in their drawers - collectively a whopping £1.8billion is gathering dust, although it is worth pointing out this is all currencies, not just obsolete ones.

You may think your foreign money is now worthless thanks to the time that has elapsed - but it is not necessarily true.

You don't mention what type of currency you have - whether it is bank notes, coins or a combination of the both.

Fourex, which has foreign coin converters dotted mainly at major train stations - and accepts old defunct currencies - says your pesetas could be worth around £164.

If your expired peseta are notes from 1970-2002, Unused Travel Money's exchange calculator says you can expect to get around £116. So it is likely to be somewhere in the middle of those two figures.

The good news is that there are several ways to exchange old national European cash.

Top 10 currencies gathering dust 1. Euros 2. American dollars 3. Swiss francs 4. German deutschmarks 5. Spanish pesetas 6. French francs 7. Italian lire 8. Irish pounds 9. Canadian dollars 10. Australian dollars Source: Leftovercurrency.com

But the process may not be as straightforward because, depending on the route you choose, you may have to get it exchanged in to euros first and then into pounds.

Former national currency such as German deutschemark and Spanish pesetas can be exchanged into euros at central banks in Europe.

Spain's central (Banco de España) is headquartered in Madrid but has 15 branch offices located around the country.

It's important to note that some central banks have a time limit for the exchange of national bank notes and coins.

Spain has set a deadline of 31 December 2020. You can see the full list on the ECB website.

So you still have some time to exchange your pesetas if you're going on holiday to Spain soon.

However, if you're not planning a trip to Spain in the next two years there are some other options to explore within the UK.

You could try exchange them at one of the many Fourex machines dotted in and around London if you live nearby or can commute to the city.

The machines accept mixed coins and notes – simply place them in the kiosk and it will evaluate and exchange your money into pounds, euros or dollars.

It accepts coins and notes from over 150 currencies as well as from old European currencies like deutschmarks, pesetas and even schillings.

Spain says you can still exchange old currency (like this old five peseta coin) at it's central banks but you have to do so before 2020.

There are no hidden commissions or fees charged. The fee is, however, factored in at what they refer to as the 'mid-market exchange rate' (so at the point of exchange).

You can't exchange more than £675 through the Fourex machines as that is a government initiated limit.

If you do try to do this then you will be reported. However, if Fourex's calculations are correct then the amount you want to exchange will fall way under this threshold and will be automatically converted.

Expect to pay a bit more if you are exchanging coins.

Fourex, for example, do charge more if you have coins because they say it's difficult for them to administer.

Besides Fourex you can also approach UK bureaus like Leftover Currency or Unused Travel Money but the downside here is that you have to post them the money, which is a bit risky.

To mitigate this risk, both companies encourage customers to use postage that provides tracking, insurance and signature on receipt.

If you have coins, make sure you pack them securely.

On its website it's unclear whether Unused Travel Money charge any fees, but Leftover Currency say they don't charge fees or commissions and make their money through the exchange rates they offer. I suspect that Unused Travel Money do the same.

Once they receive the money though they will typically transfer it directly to your bank or Paypal account.

You can expect to wait only a few days if your money is posted successfully.

====== 970 ========

UP IN YOUR LOFT YOU MAY FIND A PILE OF OLD LUGGAGE WORTH HUNDREDS - IF NOT THOUSANDS - OF POUNDS

Every week TOBY WALNE gives the low-down on the value of forgotten treasures that may be gathering dust in your attic.

Peer up in the loft and you may find a pile of old luggage worth hundreds – if not thousands – of pounds.

Louis Vuitton revolutionised the baggage industry when, in 1854 as a 16-year-old box-making apprentice, he started to make canvas cases that could be stacked on top of each other.

Innovation: Louis Vuitton revolutionised the baggage industry when he started to make canvas cases that could be stacked on top of each other

Wealthy travellers were suddenly able to increase the range of bags for journeys – taking away everything from cocktail cases to portable wardrobes.

Find one in your attic and you have a forgotten trunk that might fetch £1,500.

Other unusual Vuitton carriers include a late 19th Century tea chest which might go for £500.

Early Vuitton suitcases in pink can fetch as much as £3,000.

====== 971 ========

CANCUN, LA, LAS VEGAS, REYKJAVIK AND RIO SEE BIGGEST FALL IN HOTEL AND FLIGHT PRICES

If you're looking to jet off to an exotic location and want to see your hard-earned cash go further, your best bet is to head across the Atlantic.

That's according to travel experts at flight comparison website, Skyscanner, who have revealed the five best value holiday destinations for 2019.

The Mexican city of Cancun along with Los Angeles and Las Vegas make the cut, giving British holidaymakers the excuse they've always wanted to take a trip to one of the American cities.

Holiday: Cancun in Mexico has been voted the Best Value destination for 2019 by Skyscanner

Skyscanner calculated the best value destinations by analysing flight and hotel data.

This focused specifically on destinations that have seen a drop in both hotel and flight prices.

It looked at flight and hotel prices from between January to September this year and compared them to current prices for flights and hotels for between January to September 2019.

It then calculated which destinations had the biggest drop in costs from one year to the next.

Cheaper: There has been a 19% decrease in hotel prices for 2019, compared to 2018 in Cancun

Cancun, Mexico

Average flight price for 2019: £515.81 – 3% drop

Average 4 star hotel price for 2019: £187.11 – a 19% drop

Cancun is known for its brilliant beaches, year-long sunshine and vibrant nightlife.

Travellers can take a day trip to the ancient Mayan city of Chichen Itza, relax on the cities shores or go snorkelling to explore the stunning sea-life.

Surrounded by the Caribbean sea, the Mexican city has both a number of high-end resorts for travellers, as well as plenty of less expensive boutique hotels, which are much more affordable than some might think, with the average four star hotel costing £187.

The city will soon be much more accessible as Thomas Cook Airlines are extending their service to Cancun to incorporate nine weekly flights to the city, from Manchester.

Holidaymakers also have the option of travelling with low cost airline, Eurowings, which has flights every week from London Heathrow to Cancun.

Entertainment capital: Las Vegas came second for best value holiday destinations for 2019

Las Vegas, US

Average flight price for 2019: £785.32 – a 5% drop

Average 4 star hotel price for 2019: £124.39 – a 6% drop The resort city, that calls itself the 'entertainment capital of the world', is famed for its exciting nightlife, 24-hour casinos and its abundance of bars and restaurants.

The city doesn't just cater for night owls, the Grand Canyon is near to the main action and is another must-see attraction that draws in millions of visitors a year.

The dancing water fountain show outside the Bellagio hotel also comes highly recommended.

It is easy and affordable to get to with Norweign airlines, the low-cost carrier, which flies from London Gatwick to Las Vegas regularly.

Accommodation doesn't have to be too expensive, either, with prices starting at as little as £30 a night for a room in a four star hotel.

It is worth pointing out, however, that the pound has performed poorly against the dollar since the EU referendum.

City of Angels: Los Angeles was revealed as the third best value holiday destination for 2019

Los Angeles, US

Average flight price for 2019: £658.08 – 1% drop in flight prices

Average 4 star hotel price for 2019: £204.53 – 10% drop in hotel prices

Los Angeles is third on the list and is a dream vacation for many. The City of Angels is widely known for its numerous TV and film sets, attracting a host of famous faces to its Hollywood neighbourhood.

It's not as pricey as some would expect with Norwegian airlines offering an affordable route from Gatwick to LA, from as little as £296 return.

Virgin Atlantic are also making the city a more accessible destination as they have recently announced a new route from Manchester to LA starting from May next year.

Paying for hotels shouldn't hold you back either, as a number of hotels range from just £39 - £96 per night with the average cost of a four star hotel dropping by ten percent between 2018 and 2019.

Hoxton, the popular London based hotel chain, is also set to open its brand new hotel in early 2019 which will feature a spa, restaurant and lounge.

Reykjavik was found to be the fourth best value holiday destination & the only one in Europe

Reykjavik, Iceland

Average price of a flight in 2019: £140.67 – 18% drop

Average price of a 4 star hotel in 2019: £168.15 – 8% drop

Moving away from America, Reykjavik is next on the list for best value holiday hotspots.

Not only is the city a winter wonderland with a number of must-see attractions but it is also full of fantastic bars and restaurants, serving traditional Icelandic dishes.

While in Reykjavik, sightseers can take in the wonders of the Northern Lights, walk around the historic Golden Circle and bathe in the iconic Blue Lagoon.

It is not just a great destination for a winter getaway but also for a mid-year vacation - the sun stays out until midnight in the summer months, providing the perfect backdrop to a fascinating city.

To get there, Wow Air are providing two cheap flights to the Icelandic city a day. The average price of getting to Reykjavik have also taken a dramatic fall, with 2019 flights costing 18 per cent less than 2018 journeys.

Even though the average price of flights to Rio didn't change, hotel prices dropped by 20%

Rio de Janeiro, Brazil

Average price of a flight in 2019: £838.35 – no change

Average price of a 4 star hotel in 2019: £89.29 – 20% drop

Rio is an exotic destination that is perfect for a fun summer getaway as the seaside city in South America plays host to many bright coloured carnivals and is home to a number of tropical beaches.

While in Rio, travellers should take advantage of the scenic views, take a walk through the Copacabana neighbourhood and visit Christ the Redeemer, the famous Art Deco statue located at the peak of the Corcovado mountain.

Although flight prices have remained static, Rio has had the largest drop in hotel prices out of all the other destinations, with an average reduction of 20 per cent from 2018 to 2019.

A four star hotel next year will only cost on average £89 but there are also a sea of other amazing hotels with prices that start at just £39 a night.

====== 972 ========

STERLING STRENGTHENS AGAINST 80% OF BEST SELLING CURRENCIES IN LAST YEAR

Holidaymakers looking for a winter break will see their money stretch further than it did a year ago against a number of popular currencies.

Despite uncertainty in Britain with Brexit looming, sterling is now worth more than it was a year ago against 80 per cent of its 40 bestselling holiday currencies, the latest Post Office holiday money index shows.

Those looking for a winter Vitamin C boost will be happy to hear that heading to Egypt or Turkey will dramatically boost their spending power.

Turkey: Holidaymakers heading for some winter sun will get 37.7% more lira for their pound compared to a year ago. Pictured, Kaputas Beach

Sterling has gained 37.7 per cent against the Turkish lira in the last year, mainly due to the collapse of the lira.

It has also seen a 97 per cent rise in year-on-year sales, indicating more travellers are heading there.

Those exchanging £500 will in fact now get £139 more than six months ago - a huge incentive for any traveller tempted to head to Turkey.

This is Money has also drilled into the data to see how the pound is performing against currencies since the EU referendum.

According to the Post Office data, sterling is 57.4 per cent stronger against the lira than 24 May 2016 - a month before the EU referendum decision - and 70.1 per cent stronger compared to a month later, after the vote.

Sterling has also risen 82.3 per cent against the Egyptian pound since the month before Brexit, the figures show.

However, against a number of currencies, it still has much to recover compared to pre-referendum levels, as the table below shows.

How sterling compares since 2016 The table below shows the five currencies that sterling has performed best against in the last year - the Turkish lira, Brazilian real, Icelandic krona, Russian ruble and Indonesian rupiah. It also shows the five currencies which sterling was strongest at the time of the Brexit referendum - the South African rand, Mexican peso, Egyptian pound, Russian ruble and Turkish lira. For comparison, the rates pre-Brexit have been included, as well as the euro and the US dollar. It highlights that sterling is still down considerably against many currencies, especially the South African rand, Icelandic krona and the euro. CURRENCIES THAT WERE THE STRONGEST AGAINST THE STERLING PRE AND POST-BREXIT Currency % 2018 v 2017 % now v 24.6.16 % now v 24.5.16 RATE: 07-Nov-18 RATE: 24 June post-Brexit RATE: 24 May pre-Brexit Turkish lira 37.7% 70.1% 57.4% 6.5189 3.8332 4.1422 Brazilian real 16.2% 7.7% -4.6% 4.4785 4.1598 4.6962 Icelandic krona 13.7% -7.9% -12.4% 142.1715 154.3112 162.372 Russian ruble 13.7% -2.5% -10.7% 80.304 82.4048 89.8852 Indonesian rupiah 9.3% 5% -3% 17,522.57 16,696.47 18,056.16 Mexican peso 4.2% -2.1% -3.8% 24.342 24.8564 25.3046 South African rand 0.9% -12% -19.3% 17.6822 20.0937 21.9039 Euro 2.7% -7% -11.1% 1.125 1.2091 1.266 Egyptian pound 2.1% 93.4% 83% 21.2681 10.9944 11.6245 US dollar 1% -3.7% -6.1% 1.2893 1.3384 1.373

The pound is stronger year-on-year against every European currency - including the euro.

Meanwhile, those heading down under will also benefit from a spending boost as the pound is up 7.2 per cent against the Aussie dollar in the last year, meaning visitors get £33.53 extra when exchanging £500.

However, it is still down significantly compared to 2016 - you'll get 1.76 Australian dollar per £1 today, compared to 1.97 a month before Brexit.

The data shows that the Croatian kuna is now one of the fastest selling currencies seeing a 29 per cent rise annually in sales last month compared to a year ago, cementing Croatia as one of the UK's new favourite holiday destinations.

Sterling is also doing better against many long-haul currencies. For example, it is up 11 per cent year-on-year against the Indonesian rupiah and 5.1 per cent against the Mexico peso.

It is also currently stronger against Brazilian real, Icelandic krona and Russian ruble compared to November 2017.

Andrew Brown, of Post Office Travel Money, said: 'Not only is sterling holding its own against all European currencies at a time when many Britons will be planning visits to cities holding Christmas Markets, but there are relatively few winter sun getaways where the pound is weaker than a year ago.

'The best advice for people planning holidays abroad to get the most for their money is to do their homework on resort and city costs and set a realistic budget.'

Despite performing better, the pound is still a way of returning to pre-Brexit rates

However, despite the Post Office insisting that the latest Index holds 'reassuring' news, sterling was still higher against many currencies in May 2016, demonstrating the long lasting impact that the referendum has on exchange rates.

Since May 2016, sterling has fallen 11.1 per cent against the euro - although it is up 1.8 per cent annually.

The US dollar has, too, fallen 6.1 per cent since May 2016 and the exchange rate is unchanged from a year ago.

Currently, the sterling has fallen most annually against the Kenyan shilling, dropping 2.3 per cent.

Other currencies the sterling has weakened against in the last year includes United Arab Emirates dirham, the East Caribbean dollar and Thai baht.

====== 973 ========

RYANAIR PASSENGERS FACE £55 FEE IF THEY FAIL TO CHECK-IN ONLINE AS AIRLINE TAKES WEBSITE DOWN

Ryanair has refused to waive its £55 charge for passengers who check in at the airport, despite shutting down its website for 12 hours this evening.

The budget airline announced on Monday that passengers will be unable to check in online during a 12-hour 'systems upgrade' over night tonight.

The Dublin-based carrier's website and mobile app will be taken offline from 5pm on Wednesday until about 5am on Thursday.

Ryanair will shut down their website from 5pm on Wednesday until about 5am on Thursday and have warned their passengers to check in before then if they want to avoid a £55 fee

The airline said it has sent emails and text messages to all customers flying today or tomorrow to advise them to check-in online.

Ryanair's policy is to charge passengers £55 if they check-in at an airport.

The firm's online check-in facility is only open between 48 hours and two hours before a flight for passengers who have not paid extra to select a seat.

But, despite reducing the window from 46 hours to 34 hours, a spokesman for Ryanair confirmed the usual additional fees for paying at the airport, rather than online, apply.

Robin Kiely, Ryanair's head of communications, says: 'We apologise for any inconvenience caused by this upgrade, which will further improve Ryanair.com, Europe's largest travel website.'

====== 974 ========

HOW TO GET THE BEST EXCHANGE RATE FOR LEFTOVER CURRENCY

Holidaymakers returned home this summer with an estimated £2.5billion of unspent currency in their wallets.

Many people simply hang on to this money in the hope it will come in handy for a future trip.

But instead of leaving it sitting in your sock drawer it can make sense to exchange the money back into pounds. After all every little helps.

But how much you get for this travel cash depends on where you choose to exchange it.

Currency 'buy-backs': Selecting a poor deal could cost as much as 13 per cent of the value

Currency buyers usually compare deals before parting with their pounds but are less attuned to doing the same when selling.

New research by data analyst Consumer Intelligence indicates that selecting a poor deal could cost as much as 13 per cent of the value.

The average mark-up by a currency exchange firm is between 6 and 7 per cent.

High street foreign exchange bureaux are generally the least competitive for these so-called 'buy backs' if you walk in with your cash.

One of the worst is the Post Office, with someone purchasing $130 paying about £101.

Exchange that $130 on your return and you would receive just over £87, says Consumer Intelligence.

Online currency exchange service WeSwap recently launched a buy-back service promising a better deal for returning travellers.

Customers signing up to its service – which matches currency buyers and sellers with each other directly – can convert currency back at a cost of between 1 and 2 per cent.

The company issues customers with a plastic card credited with the money in sterling which they can then use like a debit card.

Last Tuesday, you could have swapped €500 of leftover notes and received £434 via WeSwap.

By comparison, the Post Office would have given you £385, NatWest Bank £401 and Marks & Spencer £400.

For $500 you would have received £374 from WeSwap, £336 (Post Office), £348 (NatWest) and £346 (M&S). For 500 Turkish lira you would have got £64, £58, £57 and £59 respectively.

Consumer Intelligence says poor exchange rates can be avoided if tourists pay a few pounds for a buy-back guarantee – where the provider promises to buy back the currency at the original purchase rate paid.

There may be a deadline applied to make the exchange. Providers offering such guarantees include Asda, Travelex, Moneycorp, Caxton and Eurochange.

The first three charge £3.99 while Caxton charges £4.99 to customers using its prepaid currency card.

Eurochange has a more complex arrangement – buying back 20 per cent of the original amount for £2 after 20 days; 30 per cent for £3 after 30 days; or 30 per cent for £5 after 50 days. The Post Office does not offer a buy back guarantee.

People with euros and dollars can often secure better rates by exchanging cash while they are still overseas

Another option is to exchange with friends or family. Surprisingly, people with euros and dollars can often secure better rates by exchanging cash while they are still overseas. Coins are harder to cash in mainly because of their lower value and heavy weight.

Few mainstream operators are interested. The ones that are, such as Eurochange, will only buy €1 or €2 coins.

Last Friday, you could exchange a €1 coin for 83p – 5 per cent less than the 88p value on the currency markets.

Leftover Currency, a specialist in the field of foreign currency and coins, was paying 74p for a euro.

With Leftover, customers post the coins and they are then paid via bank transfer, PayPal or cheque within five days. WeSwap is hoping soon to add coins to its buy-back scheme.

Some high streets now have currency exchange machines run by the likes of Fourex.

====== 975 ========

BUDGET AIRLINES RAKE IN BILLIONS - FROM EXTRAS THAT CAN COST FIVE TIMES A TICKET

No-frills airline Ryanair is changing its baggage rules from next month, demanding customers pay £6 for priority boarding if they want to take a 10kg bag on board on top of hand luggage that fits under a seat.

Budget carrier Wizz Air is also ramping up charges at the same time. It is asking passengers to pay up to €15 (£13) for priority boarding if they wish to take a 10kg carry-on case in addition to a small free bag measuring 40cm x 30cm x 20cm.

Previously both airlines often allowed small carry-on cases weighing up to 10kg to be taken on board for free.

Lucrative: Ryanair made almost £1.8billion last year through the sale of add-ons

These additional charges represent the latest bid by airlines to boost their so-called 'ancillary revenue' – comprising charges from extras.

The lucrative ruses include charging a fee just for booking and demanding money if you check in at the airport instead of online in advance.

If you want to pick a reserved seat to avoid a scrum when boarding you will have to pay and there is another charge for putting luggage in the hold.

Ryanair made almost £1.8billion last year through the sale of add-ons. This accounted for 28 per cent of its revenue. But research indicates that the equivalent percentage for Wizz Air was 42 per cent.

EasyJet generated £1 billion from ancillary services – 19 per cent of total revenue – while at British Airways add-ons represented only 5 per cent of total revenue.

Jay Sorensen, company president of market researcher IdeaWorksCompany, says: 'Low-cost carriers are fighting for market share – and they are doing this through deep price discounting.

How my £9.78 flight ended up at £65.99 Wanting to escape the UK for a few days, I decided to cheer myself up by tapping in 'cheap flight Spain' into an internet search engine, writes Toby Walne. On the home page 'Cheap Flights to Spain from £9.78 – Ryanair' is the top option. Press on the link and the cost immediately rises by 21p but the deal still looks too good to be true. Can the extras really add up to more than the ticket price? For a good seat with legroom, jumping the queues and taking a 10kg hand bag on board while packing a suitcase I soon end up paying more than five times the initial price – and that is just one way. Even when I try to opt for the cheapest seats pop-up windows warn me to 'avoid the middle seat' and 'don't risk random allocation' offering 25 per cent discounts for opting to pay extra for the journey. I must also battle my way through 'car hire sale' and 'exclusive deals on hotels' promotions – designed to get me to part with even more money – before the airline allows me to simply book the flight I want.

'They then boost their income through applying lucrative add-ons.'

He adds: 'Baggage and seat assignment fees are key areas that airlines focus on.

'We expect low-cost carriers to try to win more business travellers in the future with service bundle deals, which may include extra upgrades such as for priority boarding.'

The trick for travellers is to plan ahead and not be choosy about who they sit next to.

Among the extra charges by airlines such as Ryanair are at least £15 for extra legroom, between £4 and £13 for an allocated seat and £20 for printing a boarding pass at the airport.

The cost of priority boarding ahead of other passengers starts from £6 but people often pay more.

Baggage fees for budget airlines remain the biggest earner so pack light and always book online.

Ryanair demands at least £25 to check in a 20kg suitcase online but if you wait until you get to the airport it is £40.

Go over the baggage limit and it will cost £10 per extra kilogram.

EasyJet charges between £13.99 and £33.99 – depending on the flight – for a suitcase weighing up to 23kg, but if it weighs up to 15kg it is between £8.99 and £29.99.

Wizz Air charges between £13 and £65 for a 20kg bag depending on the route. Exceed this and there is a £9.50-a-kilogram excess baggage fee.

As with other airlines, if you fail to book online, the cost of checking in luggage is higher – at least £56.

If you are taking lots of heavy bags you will be better off using a courier service – which picks up your bags from home and drops them at your hotel.

A service such as Send My Bag can send 30kg of luggage to Spain for £32 within three to four days. You could pay £125 for taking the bags on Ryanair.

Wizz Air charges between £13 and £65 for a 20kg bag depending on the route

Airlines can no longer charge for payment of a flight using a credit card but some, such as easyJet, still hit passengers with a £16 'administration fee.'

Double check everything when you book – and do it all online – to avoid crippling charges for making a mistake or being penalised at check-in.

For example, changing a name online with Ryanair is £115 – or £160 at the airport. Check-in is free online but £55 at the airport. Lose your boarding pass on the way to the gate and it is a further £20.

Despite fees, the number of people opting for allocated seats has doubled. This is because the random allocation of seats means partners are sometimes sat away from each other.

The number of customers paying for priority boarding has also risen fourfold for Ryanair as people attempt to avoid a scrum at the departure gate.

Hannah Maundrell, of consumer website Money, says: 'Budget airlines are great if travelling light, but if you have luggage, want a decent seat and a free glass of wine, you are better off looking elsewhere.'

She adds: 'Assume an airline will always try to generate more money through sneaky charges.

'Seat allocation is a naughty extra but if you pack less you will make the most savings from using a budget airline.'

Ryanair says: 'Over the past 18 months we have seen about half our customers reserve a seat. All optional extras are visible and transparent on our website.

'All fees are brought to customers' attention and agreed prior to boarding.'

====== 976 ========

HOW TO FIND THE CHEAPEST CHRISTMAS MARKET TRAVEL DEALS IN BRITAIN AND EUROPE

With two and a half months to go until Christmas, many may be thinking about getting into the winter spirit by visiting a popular festive market - either in Britain or Europe.

When it comes to festive markets, shoppers are spoilt for choice, with a hop across the Continent to traditional hotspots such as Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, France, Germany and Poland to name but a few of the popular choices.

Meanwhile, in Britain, festive markets have grown in popularity, with places such as Bath, Belfast, Birmingham's Frankfurt Christmas Market, Glasgow and Manchester now offering an annual outing.

The good news is that regardless of what destination you choose, it's not too late to bag a bargain.

Germany is famous for its Christmas markets and it's where they originated. This is the Christmas market in Frankfurt, Germany

A spokesman from lastminute.com, said: 'Most Christmas markets are very reasonable if you book now.

'The markets differ in dates but many run from late November until early to mid-January - and early December departures are especially very reasonable currently.'

UK Christmas markets

Most markets like Bath, Birmingham, Cardiff, Glasgow and Lincoln have their own dedicated websites with tips for travellers on how to get there and links through to where to book accommodation.

Deals can be found on travel comparison websites too particularly as they are rivaling the more established European markets.

The Bath Christmas market is popular - last year it had more than 200 stalls. This year it runs from 22 Nov till 9 Dec

Manchester's Christmas market, which this year runs from Friday 9 November to Saturday 22 December, was voted the UK's best market in Europe's Top 20 in 2017.

It shrugged off strong competition from a list of 100 Christmas markets, placing above destinations such as Dresden, Leipzig and Cologne.

Bath hosts a fantastic Christmas market too and will be open between 22 November and 9 December.

It's world-renowned market has been running for 18 years this year.

It keeps growing - last year it had over 200 chalets (30 more than in 2016) and this year it's bound not to disappoint with its offerings and festivities.

Manchester's Christmas market runs from Fri 9 Nov to Sat 22 Dec this year

Overall Britain's Christmas markets are flourishing and attracting more tourists and traders every year.

The Local Government Association says Christmas markets have been around for over 35 years in the UK.

Lincoln brought the first traditional German Christmas market to the UK in 1982 as part of its friendship and twinning relationship with the town of Neustadt in Germany.

The LGA's local impact report on Christmas markets shows that from an estimated 30 markets in 2007, Britain's Christmas markets have grown to over 100 markets in 2017, with a corresponding increase in the number of days and hours they are open.

European Christmas markets

Current Christmas market deals Vienna Christmas market, departing London Stansted on 22 Nov, returning on the 25 Nov for £43 return, with hotels costing from £86.50 per person (based on two people sharing a room) with Skyscanner. European Christmas markets in Krakow, Vilnius and Prague, prices from £79pp based on 2 night, flight and hotel December departures with Lastminute. Edinburgh Christmas Markets, two to three nights at Haymarket Hub Hotel with return flights starting from £79 per person, from select cities with Groupon (valid Nov-Dec 2018). Bruges one-day Christmas market coach trip with return channel ferry crossing from various pick up points including London, Maidstone and Dover from £49 with Groupon (24 Nov 23 Dec 2018) German Christmas markets, two to three nights at a choice of hotels with return flights from £89pp based on double occupancy with Groupon on selected dates in Nov and Dec. Krakow Christmas market, depart 11 Dec for two nights at Hotel Simpozjum, 4 star, bed and breakfast, from Birmingham at £110pp or from Leeds at £114pp, with TravelSupermarket. Toulouse Christmas market, depart 23 Nov for two nights at the Aparthotel Lagrange City, 3 star, room only. From Gatwick for £112pp, with TravelSupermarket. Riga Christmas market from £89pp: for two night stay at the 4* Bellevue Park Hotel, room only. Includes return flights from London Stansted departing 3rd Dec, with Lastminute

When it comes to choosing whether to stay local or to head over to Europe it's difficult to generalise about which will be the cheapest option.

Skyscanner highlights that costs are affected by where you are based, how far in advance you are booking and when you want to travel.

Lastminute.com, however, argues that there are better deals in Europe as does Emma Coulthurst, travel expert for TravelSupermarket.

'I would always argue that holidaying in the UK is never as cheap as traveling abroad especially when you consider the local cost of train journeys and hotel bookings.

'With low cost airlines now controlling 40 per cent of the European short-haul space it's now so easy and cheap to travel,' says Coulthurst.

Christmas markets are a time honoured tradition that goes back hundreds of years.

Germany is famous for its Christmas markets and it's where they originated.

But larger cities like Berlin and Nuremberg tend to be more expensive at this time of the year and are often overcrowded.

The same goes for some established Christmas markets elsewhere in Europe in cities like Vienna and Prague.

To save money, consider going to a lesser known market such as Toulouse, Sofia, Dusseldorf and Krakow (see table below).

'Lower demand at this time of the year means it is a great time to experience these cities with less crowds and for less money.

'For example, swap a popular Western Christmas market destination such as Vienna £235.58 per person for lesser-known Eastern European destination like Sofia £128.35 per person and shave around 45 per cent off the cost of your break,' says Coulthurst.

Swap cities and save Popular Christmas market city Swap for Potential savings Copenhagen (£246.55pp) Florence (£128.20pp) -48% Paris (£185.56pp) Toulouse (£112.20pp) -39% Budapest (£191.76pp) Sofia (£128.35pp) -33% Berlin (£186.10pp) Dusseldorf (£127.99pp) -31% Prague (£187.03pp) Krakow (£137.89pp) -26% Source: TravelSupermarket, correct as at 4 October, 2018

Regardless of whether you choose the UK or Europe, there are few better ways to celebrate with the family than to shop around the festive Christmas markets where original trinkets and gifts can be bought and warm mulled wine can be enjoyed.

What's more, if you time it right, you can save money.

Lisa Tyndall, senior growth manager at Skyscanner, adds: 'For those looking to find the cheapest way to visit a Christmas market it might be worth considering a January visit when some flights are cheaper.

'For example, Amsterdam is hosting their market until 20 January and by looking at our historical flight data we can see that flights to Amsterdam in January have been 14 per cent lower than in December.'

Dusseldorf gives the most markets, with more than five around its city centre says TravelSupermarket

====== 977 ========

NATIONWIDE REFUSES TO INSURE TRAVELLERS OVER 70 UNLESS THEY PAY EXTRA £65

Nationwide will no longer insure travellers over 70 unless they pay an extra £65.

Currently, customers who pay £13 a month for the building society’s FlexPlus packaged bank account benefit from free travel insurance up to age 75.

But from January 3, Nationwide is lowering its maximum age limit to 70.

Change: Nationwide is lowering its maximum age limit on its packaged travel insurance to 70

It is also hiking the surcharge for customers over this new age limit to £65.

The charge is per account. So, if a couple who are both over 70 have a joint account, they will only have to pay one £65 fee per year for cover.

The age change will also affect customers with its fee-free FlexAccount, which comes with travel cover if you pay in at least £750 a month.

f.parker@dailymail.co.uk

====== 978 ========

SECRET BLUEPRINT FOR A NO-DEAL BREXIT REVEALS SHOCK IF YOUR HOLIDAY IS HIT

Holidaymakers face not being compensated if their vacation is cancelled due to disruption caused by Brexit, according to a top secret travel industry report leaked to The Mail on Sunday.

The Association of British Travel Agents (ABTA), the packaged holiday trade body, is encouraging member companies to insert ‘Brexit clauses’ in their terms and conditions to prepare themselves for potential turbulence if the UK leaves the EU without a deal.

The guidance is contained within a confidential blueprint that has been sent out to ABTA’s members – which number more than 1,000 – to prepare them for the possibility of a no-deal.

Holidaymakers may not be compensated if their vacation is cancelled due to Brexit disruption

The body is also advising travel agents on how to ramp up charges for holidays that have already been booked if their costs increase due to a fall in the value of the pound.

This could mean that holidaymakers are sent unexpected bills that they must pay on top of the advertised price of their trips.

Thomas Cook now rules out ‘compensation, damages, expenses, costs, losses or any other amount of any description’ in the event of disruption due to a no-deal Brexit, although it will offer refunds in the event of cancellation.

On The Beach’s conditions do not even guarantee a full refund.

Under the title ‘Brexit Implications’, On The Beach state that in the event of Brexit disruption ‘we will endeavour to provide suitable alternative arrangements or refunds where possible [but] we will not be liable to pay you any compensation’.

The ABTA document, which was first sent out in August and will be updated periodically as Brexit looms next March, was prompted by a perceived ‘lack of progress’ in UK-EU negotiations.

‘ABTA believes it is now prudent for members to consider in more detail the implications of the UK departing the EU under a no-deal scenario,’ it says.

The report contains several warnings about a ‘no-deal scenario’, saying Britons could be forced to obtain visas to visit EU countries.

Alternatively, if the UK agrees non-visa access to the rest of Europe, visitors may need to buy electronic travel authority (ETA), at a cost of €7, which would last three years.

Brexit disruption: ABTA is advising its members on how they can keep their costs at a minimum

The body also predicts that a no-deal exit would initially lead to ‘considerable disruption at borders’ between the UK and EU, if Britons are no longer allowed to use queues for people who live within the European Economic Area.

There would also be ‘serious challenges’ for the aviation industry, the report says, which could have to rely on the UK agreeing new access rights for its carriers to travel into the EU and other countries that are covered by EU rules.

The warnings echo the pessimistic tone of Michael O’Leary, the Remain-supporting boss of Ryan-air, who last month claimed certain flights could be grounded.

Last month, the Government also said flights could be grounded in the event of a no-deal exit. In the event of Brexit disruption, ABTA is advising its members on how they can keep their costs at a minimum, sometimes at the expense of their customers.

The body recommends that while travel agents should provide their customers with refunds if their package trips cannot go ahead, organisers ‘would not be liable for additional compensation’. It says this is because a no-deal Brexit, and issues arising from it, can currently be considered ‘unforeseeable and unavoidable’.

There is more uncertainty where holidays are not packaged up. For instance, if a flight is cancelled but not a hotel, then the accommodation provider ‘is unlikely to offer a refund’. It is unclear whether the flight provider would need to compensate, ABTA said.

The ABTA document also raises the prospect of travellers being charged extra for holidays that have already been paid for if the pound falls in value.

This can happen on the condition that a company reserves the right to introduce surcharges, travellers are informed at least 20 days before their holiday and the firm absorbs equivalent to 2 per cent of the total holiday cost due to currency changes.

The guidance recommends that ABTA members consider amending their terms and conditions to introduce ‘Brexit clauses’ to make clear that, while refunds will be provided, compensation will not. ABTA also notes that Britons may need to apply for international driving licences for use in the EU

An ABTA spokesman said: ‘Anyone who books and pays for a package holiday through a UK travel company will receive a full refund for that holiday if it cannot be provided due to Brexit.

‘As Brexit is a situation which is beyond the control of travel companies, customers will not be entitled to compensation.

‘If you book an individual travel service – e.g. a flight or a hotel – the supplier’s terms and conditions will apply. They would usually offer a refund if the service cannot be provided. If Brexit was the reason, compensation is unlikely to be available, as it would be deemed beyond the control of the travel service provider.’

====== 979 ========

OVER HALF OF MILLENNIALS RECEIVE MONEY FROM THE BANK OF MUM AND DAD

Just over half of all adults aged between 21 and 35 have asked their parents for financial support in the past two years, new research has revealed.

Along with money for big items such as a wedding and a house deposit, parents are have also paid for groceries, holidays and new clothes.

Meanwhile 26 per cent of adults in this age group have moved back home with their parents in order to save money.

One in four adults aged between 21 - 35 have moved back in with their parents

Of those who have moved back home in order to save money, 84 per cent said they are regularly putting money into a savings account of an average of £205 per month.

Savings goals for this group include buying a home, prioritised by 34 per cent, clearing debts, put first by 19 per cent, and going travelling, which 13 per cent said they are saving for, according to the research from Experian.

Just over half of the 2,000 people questioned said they had received financial support from their parents over the past two years.

These respondents weren't living at home yet 18 per cent said their parents had paid for everyday essentials such as the weekly supermarket shop.

As many as 13 per cent have been taken on a spending spree to buy new clothes, and 18 per cent had been given money to go on holiday.

When it comes to big ticket items, 9 per cent had been given money towards a wedding or a honeymoon, 7 per cent had been given a deposit for a new house which they didn't have to pay back, 7 per cent had been given money to pay off a loan and 8 per cent had been given money to buy a new car.

A smaller percentage of parents had given their child money for a house deposit which they had to pay back, or had given them money to pay their mortgage.

James Jones, head of consumer affairs at Experian, comments: 'The Bank of Mum and Dad is a financial institution that is becoming increasingly important, especially when it comes to purchasing a property.

'However, our research shows that this dependence on parents by young adults goes beyond just big one-off expenses and stretches to everyday essentials. This has implications for both the youngsters' and the parents' financial futures, particularly if the parents' finances become squeezed.

55 per cent of millennials have received financial support from their parents in the past 2 years

'Whilst receiving help from parents is perhaps necessary for many, I urge young people to also be conscious of building a positive financial profile. For example, remaining on track for repayments such as credit cards, household bills and mobile phone contracts.

'Even when times are tight, saving little and often can make a huge difference in achieving long term financial goals.'

The average sums of money being handed over by parents for house deposits vary considerably yet a recent report from Nationwide said parents hand over an average of £18,000.

It also said parents were behind more than one in four house sales this year, with parents amounting to the equivalent of a £5.7billion mortgage lender in terms of cash doled out.

However, there are major discrepancies in the amount handed out across the country with sums ranging from an average £10,800 in Scotland and £12,000 in the North East, to £21,700 in the South East and £30,600 in London.

For a full list of alternatives if your parents aren’t in a position to hand over a wad of cash, see our article on the alternatives to the Bank of Mum and Dad.

====== 980 ========

AT LAST, A RAIL OMBUDSMAN... BUT WILL IT HAVE TEETH?

Long-suffering rail passengers will finally have access to an ombudsman by the end of this month.

This follows half a million passenger complaints to train operators in the past year, many left unresolved.

Bizarrely, the new regulator is being run by the Dispute Resolution Ombudsman service, better known for sorting out disputes in the furniture industry and home improvements – for example when a disgruntled customer is unhappy about a poorly fitted kitchen.

Rail misery: Commuters protest at London's Victoria Station over persistent chaos on trains run by Southern Rail

Its net will now embrace everything from train delays and cancellations to overcrowded carriages and staff rudeness. The new service – like many trains – is long overdue. Research just published by consumer group Which? indicates that fewer than half of those who complain are satisfied with the response from train operators.

Currently if you have a complaint that a rail firm fails to sort out, you can turn to consumer group Transport Focus. But it only has the power to ask a train operator to reconsider its stance.

The new rail ombudsman will have the power to instruct train companies to pay compensation. All major train operators in the UK that have franchise agreements with the Department for Transport must abide by any ombudsman decision.

Transport for London will not fall under the ombudsman's scope so travellers in the capital will still need to take unresolved complaints to watchdog London TravelWatch.

Currently if you have a complaint that a rail firm fails to sort out, you can turn to consumer group Transport Focus. But it only has the power to ask a train operator to reconsider its stance

Layla Fazal, of the Rail Delivery Group which represents rail companies, says of the new ombudsman: 'This arrangement is about giving consumers a level of service they deserve.'

Only a third of rail passengers whose train has been cancelled or delayed bother to make a claim for a refund when they could get money back. Most passengers currently claim using a 'delay repay' compensation system. This can entitle passengers to 25 per cent of the cost of a single journey if delayed between 15 and 29 minutes.

Those delayed 30 to 59 minutes can claim half the cost of this journey. If delayed between an hour and 119 minutes you are entitled to the full cost of a single journey and if it is two hours or more a full refund of a return journey cost.

Some operators, including Chiltern Railways and Great Western Railway, work under separate rules but offer similar levels of compensation. Details of claiming for a delay or cancellation can be picked up at your local ticket office. If unsure about the operator contact National Rail Enquiries on 03457 48 49 50 or go to nationalrail.co.uk.

Critics point out existing rules make it hard to claim as it involves providing ticket receipts and compensation can be offered in vouchers, not cash.

The Government has proposed a 'one-click' compensation system for delayed train passengers – enabling customers who have registered online to press a button on their smartphone while on the train and get a refund paid directly to their bank account. Yet the idea could still be years away as train companies will not be forced to sign up to the deal until new train franchise agreements are introduced.

====== 981 ========

'ONE IN 10 SMALL POWER SUPPLIERS MAY NOT SURVIVE THE WINTER', WARNS INDUSTRY INSIDER

As many as one in ten small energy suppliers face a battle to survive the winter after struggling to pay their green taxes.

The chief executive of one medium-sized supplier told The Mail on Sunday that he had been approached by seven rivals – out of about 70 which compete with the Big Six – which were looking to offload customers.

He said some had admitted they missed the final October 31 deadline for paying their environmental taxes. This is seen in the industry as a sign that a supplier may be on its last legs.

As many as one in ten small energy suppliers face a battle to survive the winter after struggling to pay their green taxes

Regulator Ofgem declined to reveal how many companies missed the final deadline, but said it had appointed an external auditor to address a multi-million pound black hole in the environmental taxes collected this year.

An unprecedented 34 companies missed the first payment deadline in August, leaving a shortfall of £103.9 million. Several industry sources said they believed up to £50 million was still outstanding.

Historically, suppliers which have missed the final tax deadline have gone into a tailspin. They typically face fines from Ofgem and a ban on signing up new customers. Of the three companies which failed to pay last year, two went bust and one was taken over by a rival.

Extra Energy is understood to be one of the suppliers which failed to pay its full bill in time.

Historically, suppliers which have missed the final tax deadline have gone into a tailspin

The Birmingham-based company, which has more than 500,000 customers, is already under investigation by the regulator over potential rule breaches on billing, customer service and complaints handling. It came 29th out of 31 companies for customer satisfaction in a poll by consumer group Which? Extra Energy declined to comment.

Another small supplier, Spark, admitted last week that it had missed its payment and owed Ofgem £14.4 million. Spark bosses are now in talks with an unnamed rival about a possible merger.

What happens if your supplier goes bust If your energy supplier goes bust, do not panic. There is no risk of your power or heating being cut off. Instead, another company will step in and take you on as a customer. Regulator Ofgem appoints another supplier, which could be one of the Big Six – British Gas, EDF, E.On, Npower, SSE or ScottishPower – as a 'supplier of last resort'. All you need to do is take a meter reading and provide this to the new company. Your account will automatically transfer over – including any credit you may have. Any debts may still be payable to the old supplier. You will be moved on to one of the tariffs offered by the new supplier. This could be more expensive than your old deal, but you can then switch to a rival company without any penalty.

If left unpaid, the £50 million funding gap will heap pressure on more solvent energy suppliers. An Ofgem spokesman confirmed it would be asking other companies to make up the final shortfall. The energy chief contacted by the struggling rivals said: 'All seven were saying they are worried they won't make it through the winter.

'With the havoc caused by the price cap and now this, it could be a very tricky end to the year.'

He said one firm told him it had paid its Renewables Obligation Certificates, which fund green energy projects. He believed three others had secured funding to pay their bills, but still faced an uncertain future. Two other energy suppliers privately told The Mail on Sunday that they have been approached by rivals about taking on customers.

So far this year a number of firms, including Usio and Iresa, have gone bust. Part of the problem has been rising wholesale costs and the new price cap on variable tariffs which comes into force in January. Several industry sources said they believed the amount in outstanding green taxes was between £30 million and £50 million.

Tikendra Dewan, a former Gurkha and founder and chief executive of GnERGY, a small energy supplier which has paid its renewable obligations, said: 'The Government should give some serious thought to helping small suppliers like us. We only have 10,000 customers but we met our commitment for £831,000.

'I find it hard to digest that Spark has 297,000 customers and a turn- over of £230 million but could not meet its obligations. To my mind that shows a lack of responsibility.

'If they are allowed to merge with another firm without paying their dues – and suppliers such as us have to pay extra instead – it would feel like they are laughing their way to the bank while the rest are being penalised.'

One source at a Big Six supplier said companies could refuse to pay towards the £50 million shortfall.

'Ultimately, sensible suppliers simply won't stump up for the mistakes of others.'

A spokesman for Ofgem said: 'Suppliers that have not met their obligations are in breach of the Renewables Obligation Orders and Ofgem stands ready to take action as needed to secure good outcomes for consumers.'

====== 982 ========

RECLAIM YOUR PPI PREMIUMS FOR FREE

If you have taken out a credit or store card, loan, catalogue credit, car finance or an overdraft, you like millions of others, could have been mis-sold payment protection insurance along with it.

You don't need to hand over your cash to a PPI claims company - our free guide has already enabled countless readers to win back money on policies they were mis-sold.

Here we explain how you can find out if you are owed any money, and how to go about claiming it back if you are.

The FCA has now set a claims deadline for 29 August 2019 so make sure get your skates on and check now, if you think you may have a claim.

Compensation: Find out how to claim the money you are owed without paying over the odds

We've even produced template letters to help you claim - download the template letters here, or see further guidance on how to use them below.

BEWARE! There are firms offering to pursue your claim for you on a 'no win, no fee' basis - they run ads on TV and use spam texts and cold calls to get your attention.

These firms offer nothing that individuals can't do themselves and take hefty fees into the bargain - sometimes even if you don't have a claim at all.

Most companies that mis-sold PPI now have processes in place to pay claimants quickly, and official channels for deciding on disputed cases are set up so that ordinary people can use them without resorting to claims firms.

You may decide to use a claims firm, but you are likely to hand them hundreds or thousands for something you can do yourself. This is Money has campaigned against PPI mis-selling for more than a decade and strongly advises that you reclaim lost money yourself.

Have I got PPI?

PPI is attached to loans, credit cards and other credit agreements, such as car finance. You may have more than one PPI policy. Mis-selling of the insurance was so widespread that the worst firms added it without borrowers knowing.

PPI on a credit card should be simple to spot - a payment to cover the premium will show up on monthly statements.

It can be harder to identify on loans and other credit agreements. The cost of it may even have been rolled into the loan amount, meaning there is no separate payment to cover the PPI.

If you have your original agreement or any old statements you can also look out for payments labelled ASU, loan care, payment cover, protection plan, loan protection.

If in doubt, it's b est to contact your lender to find out if you have it. Some also have online tools to check for you if you have ever had PPI on the account.

If you don't have the documents or you can't remember which lenders and what products you have had in the past, all is is not lost.

You can use your credit file to see all of your borrowing over the past six years, even if you have closed the account.

Find out more about how to check your credit file here.

Once you are sure which lenders you have had accounts with you can then contact them and ask them for a copy of the agreement and the terms and conditions.

If you don't have the original agreement for an open account it may cost you £1 to request it.

If it's closed, you may have to pay up to £10 for a full breakdown of your account.

You can usually send a request by post, it may speed things up by including a cheque for the amount.

WHY THIS IS MONEY FOUGHT TO BEAT PPI MIS-SELLING This is Money launched its campaign to stamp out PPI mis-selling in 2006, a time when policies were still widely being wrongly pushed despite major concerns about them. We had reported repeated incidents of mis-selling of PPI in the years running up to this and urged the industry to get its house in order. Ultimately, we decided it was time to campaign for customers to fight back, by making it easier for them to reclaim mis-sold PPI. Since then banks, building societies and other financial institutions have been found to have mis-sold PPI on a widespread scale and they have been ordered to pay customers back. This is Money's campaign, along with those of our peers, such as Which? and MoneySavingExpert, empowered ripped-off customers to fight back. This was instrumental in finally ending widespread mis-selling.

I have it - but can I claim?

You can claim if the sale of your PPI was unfair. The clearest cases of mis-selling are those where customers were sold the insurance when they had no chance of claiming on it.

Here's a list of circumstances where buyers may have been mis-sold.

If you were not employed at the time you took the insurance - whether you were unemployed, self-employed or retired - you should not have been sold the insurance.

If, when you took the insurance, you had a medical problem that could have kept you from working, you should have been warned that the insurance was unlikely to be suitable for you. If it wasn't explained, you can claim.

If you were sold a 'single premium' policy - where the whole cost of the loan is paid for up front with money that is also borrowed at the same interest rate as the loan - you should at least be able to get a refund by cancelling the PPI. If you cancelled or repaid the loan early, but were unable to cancel the PPI, then you can claim for a refund.

If the refund you were offered was only a fraction of the cost you paid, you can claim to get a fair refund. If you were able to cancel the insurance, but the loan was redrawn at less favourable rates, you can also claim money back.

If the entire cost of the PPI was not explained to you, or if the company only quoted the cost of the loan with the PPI attached, then you can claim.

If you were told the insurance was compulsory it is likely you can claim.

If other important features of the loan were not explained - for example, the terms for cancelling the cover or significant exclusions such as stress and back problems - then you can claim.

Most policies have an upper age limit - usually 65 or 70. If you were older than the age limit for your policy when you took the insurance, you can claim.

If you already had alternative cover that could insure your repayments - such as income protection or an employer illness or redundancy package - but were not asked about this, you could claim.

If you bought PPI to cover a long-term loan there is a chance that the insurance will run out before the loan is repaid. Most PPI policies will only run for five years, so if your loan term is longer than this the seller should have explained this limitation. If they didn't, you can claim.

If you have noticed you are paying for PPI that you didn't know you had there is a chance that it was added without your knowledge, or through an 'opt out' box that you missed. It will be up to the seller to prove you agreed to the insurance, so if you can't remember being asked, you can claim.

Who do I complain to?

To make your claim you first need to complain to the firm that sold you the insurance. It may be that this firm was acting as the representative of another company. In which case you should write to them.

Some banks also have dedicated PPI claims pages on their websites where you can fill out an online form to claim.

You should include all the reasons why you believe you have been mis-sold the insurance.

Use our template letter which lets you select any number of the reasons listed above. Simply tailor the letter to fit you circumstances, deleting the segments that do not apply to you.

Many of the major institutions, such as the banks, are now repaying customers with the minimum of fuss, but do not be put off if the firms replies to say that they disagree and that they are assured the sale was within the rules.

We have known cases of firms swearing that sales conversations were recorded that prove a sale was valid, only to back down when challenged to produce the evidence.

What if I am rejected or disagree with the amount I've been offered?

If you are not offered a refund in the final response to your letter from the company, or are offered an amount that you do not believe is fair, you can take your complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS).

If the company simply ignores your complaint, or refuses to address it with a final response, you can go the FOS after eight weeks.

The FOS has laid out a procedure for claimants to follow, which you can find here. The huge volume of claims has slowed the process down and the FOS may take some time to respond with a decision on your case. Some cases can take up to two years.

The initial decision will be made by an FOS adjudicator. Both parties have the right to appeal this decision. If you want to appeal you can ask for you case to go before an FOS ombudsman. This decision is then final and legally binding on both sides.

You cannot appeal an Ombudsman's decision but you can ask for their handling of your case to be reviewed by the FOS's service review team and ultimately to an independent assessor, though they will only look at the service you received, not the PPI complaint itself.

How much will I get?

If the firm, or the Financial Ombudsman Service, agree that you were mis-sold the insurance on a regular premium policy (such as a mortgage or credit card) you should get back all the premiums you have paid, with interest added.

If you took out a single policy with a personal loan or finance agreement it works slightly differently.

If you are still making repayments on the loan lenders will work out what you would have paid without the cost of PPI on the loan amount. It will then recalculate what your repayments would have been without this, and deduct the amount you have overpaid from your existing balance.

If you have already cleared the debt, you will receive the PPI payments you made plus the difference between what you paid in total and what you

Remember, it may be that you weren't mis-sold the policy in the first instance, but were treated unfairly when you went to cancel the cover.

FCA rules say that when a customer cancels a single premium policy, the firm should give a 'fair' refund.

This may not necessarily be a pro-rata refund i.e. you won't get half the cost back if you cancel halfway through. However, firms should only charge for 'reasonably incurred costs'. If you don't feel the refund is fair, challenge it.

What if the firm who sold me the PPI has gone bust?

If the company who sold you the PPI has since gone into default, then it will be the Financial Services Compensation Service (FSCS) that deals with your claim.

The FSCS can provide compensation of up to 90 per cent of your claim, with no upper limit. However, it can only provide compensation for PPI schemes that were taken out on or after January 14, 2005.

====== 983 ========

VIRGIN MONEY IS GIVING AWAY ENOUGH MILES FOR A TRIP TO NEW YORK WITH ITS REWARDS CREDIT CARD

Virgin Money has boosted its sign-up bonus for new credit card customers – offering up to an extra 10,000 miles on top of its existing bonuses.

Those applying for its Virgin Atlantic Rewards card now earn up to 10,000 Flying Club rewards miles with the brand airline, while its premium Rewards+ card card offers an even more generous 25,000 free miles.

That's is enough get you return flights to Hong Kong, New York or the Caribbean and back.

Rob Burgess, editor of frequent flyer website Headforpoints, claims this is the most generous sign-up bonus seen in the last few years.

Branson's big ideas: Virgin Atlantic rewards cards can prove lucrative

The offer is for new customers opening a credit card before 14 December 2018.

If you already have one of the cards you can still qualify as a 'new customer' as long as you are applying for the other of the two cards on offer and you signed up more than six months ago.

One of the advantages is the Virgin Atlantic accounts come with a Mastercard, more widely accepted than its biggest rival - the BA American Express cards.

As well as Virgin Atlantic flights you can use points on Eurostar, Delta and Singapore Airlines, Air New Zealand, Jet Airways, Air China, ANA, Scandinavian Airlines and Hawaiian Airlines.

Rob Burgess told This is Money: 'The new Virgin Atlantic credit cards were already the most generous non-Amex airline or hotel cards for day-to-day spending.

'This enhanced sign-up bonus is the most generous I've seen for a couple of years and anyone collecting Virgin Flying Club miles should jump in now as I doubt you will see a better deal.'

Read this before you sign up

If you won't pay it off each month there is no point reading any further as these cards will have high interest rates attached. Instead skip to our guide to interest-free credit cards instead.

Any rewards will quickly be eaten up by interest on your balance if you don't clear it each month.

What you get

The free Virgin Atlantic Rewards offers 5,000 Flying Club Miles after your first purchase within three months.

If you spend £1,000 within that time, it will hand over an extra 5,000 miles.

In addition after a £20,000 spend you get a free companion ticket or Premium upgrade.

You get 0.75 points per £1 spend on the card, or 1.25 per £1 spent on Virgin holidays or Virgin Atlantic flights.

The card comes with an APR of 22.9 per cent so make sure to clear the balance each month to avoid interest.

Spending example: A £1,000 monthly spend would earn you 9,000 miles per year, or 19,000 in the first year including the bonus. That's just shy of the 20,000 needed to get a return to New York.

The Virgin Atlantic Rewards+ card offers higher earning potential, but it comes with an annual fee of £160.

You get 15,000 miles for your first spend within 90 days plus an extra 10,000 with a £1,500 outlay.

After a £10,000 spend you get a companion ticket or seat upgrade to Premium class.

Everyday spending gets you 1.5 miles per £1, spends on holidays and flights with the brand earns a higher three miles per pound.

Again interest is set at 22.9 per cent on top of the monthly fee. Spending example: A £1,000 monthly spend earns 18,000 miles per year, or 43,000 in the first year – enough for a premium seat return to the Caribbean with a companion ticket.

Possible destinations: 20,000 Flying Club points can be swapped for return tickets to New York or the Carribean

Any better deals?

The first thing to consider is of course any airline rewards scheme is only worth considering if you can fly from a nearby airport using your points, and to destinations you want.

Burgess adds: 'You can't spend Virgin Flying Club miles on cheaper short-haul flights because Virgin Atlantic doesn't have an. So you need to be confident that you will earn enough to redeem for a long-haul flight. Unless you have substantial credit card spending you will need to be picking up their miles from other sources too.'

And again, you need to ensure you are going to be diligent about managing your repayments if you are considering one.

British Airways is the main rival to Virgin Atlantic. For BA Executive Club, its Iberia, American Airlines and OneWorld partners airlines including Finnair and Qantas.

The American Express British Airways Premium Plus comes with a £195 annual fee and a far larger 76 APR per cent interest - that gets you 25,000 bonus Avios if you spend £3,000 in three months a free companion voucher after a £10,000 annual spend and 1.5 Avios per £1 spent.

In the first year, a £1,000 monthly spend on the card earns 40,000 points - enough to get you a return from London to Bermuda with a companion ticket.

The American Express British Airways credit card has no annual fee and interest at 22.9 APR per cent.

You get 5,000 Avios when you spend £1,000 in the first three months, 1 Avios per £1 spent and the free companion voucher after £20,000 annual card spend.

In the first year a £1,000 monthly spend on the card earns you 17,000 Avios. That could get you to Portugal or Spain and back, but you wouldn't have spend enough to earn the companion voucher.

If you don't want to tie yourself to one scheme, try the American Express Membership Rewards scheme.

It offers points that can be swapped like-for-like with several airlines including Virgin, BA, Etihad and Emirates.

There are again two options, the premium Preferred Rewards Gold with a £140 annual fee ( waived for the first year) and 22.9 per cent interest on spending.

You earn 20,000 Membership Rewards if you spend £2,000 within three months, 10,000 extra points after a £15,000 spend, one point for each £1 of spending.

The fee-free alternative, Rewards Card, offers 10,000 Membership Rewards if you spend £1,000 within three months, plus one point per £1 spent. It comes with an APR of 22.9 per cent.

====== 984 ========

TOP PERSONAL LOAN RATES AND HOW TO FIND THE BEST DEAL

Banks are beginning to tighten the purse strings, but personal loan rates are still lingering at low levels.

This spells good news for borrowers who want to access funds for a car, home improvements or to clear debts and pay the money off steadily over time.

Loans can be notoriously difficult to navigate and a bit of a minefield if you are not equipped with the right information or are not the kind of borrower who will get the best advertised rate.

We highlight the best personal loans around below, complete with an explanation why, and explain how to go about getting the best deal for you.

New car? Many people take out a loan to cover the initial cost

When making our pick of the loans around we don’t just take the best rates from the comparison tables – we also scour the market for all-around winners.

However, you can also investigate the best loan for you personally using our deal finder, linked below. This is a highly-recommended course of action.

Powered by our partner Moneysupermarket it offers a smart loan search - helping you to compare all the top deals that match your needs.

First things first...

Are you trying to cut existing credit card debt?

RULES TO REMEMBER If you plan to take on a loan, make sure you're up to scratch on the laws. EU rules mean early part-repayments are allowed Since 1 February 2011, partial overpayments are allowed on loans taken after this date. Banks may charge you, but this is limited to a maximum of 1 per cent of the amount repaid (if the loan is for more than a year) or 0.5 per cent (if under a year). Loan providers must allow you to pay off your loan in an early repayment. This is subject to a penalty which is usually one or two months interest.

If so, a loan probably won't be the absolute cheapest option for you - as long as you do not have a large amount of debt and can try to clear it relatively quickly.

The whole point of balance transfer deals on credit cards are to shift card debts to them at a special cheap rate.

These rates will almost certainly be cheaper than loans for less than £1,000.

And for larger amounts they can still prove more cost effective.

Providing you can transfer to a credit card, and will definitely pay it off before the 0 per cent deal ends, a balance transfer can prove the cheapest option.

If you can't, you would need to make sure you transfer your balance to another 0 per cent deal, or you will face high interest charges.

If you don't have the financial firepower or discipline to clear the debt within a 0 per cent balance transfer period then a loan may be the best move. It sets monthly payments and as long as you keep up with them over the course of the loan, you will end up with that debt cleared.

> Use our guide to find the best 0 per cent transfer credit card for you.

Best buy loan rates at different levels

Remember: Terms and conditions apply on all these loans, particularly on how long you borrow for, and rates you are offered will vary depending on your credit history

Loans up to £5,000

Zopa charges the lowest rate at 5.3 per cent on amounts between £3,000-£4,999 on a term of up to five years.

Ikano Bank sits next in the tables at 7.7 per cent when you clear the balance in between one and five years.

Hitachi Personal Finance offer the next cheapest deal at 9.5 per cent on the same bracket. It offers repayment windows of between two and five years.

Loans for £5,000 to £7,499

The lowest rate currently available on this bracket is offered by Clydesdale Bank at 3.4 per cent on amounts between £5,000 and £7,499 lasting up to five years.

Next are Hitachi Personal Finance and peer-to-peer lender Zopa charging slightly more at 3.5 per cent, you can repay over a two to five year term.

M&S Bank comes in third, charging a rate of 3.6 per cent but it also has the benefit of loan terms of up to seven years. M&S offers the rate on a term of up to seven years - the longest available. Both Clydesdale and Yorkshire offer up to five years.

Sainsbury's Bank also has a rate of 3.6 per cent over three years to anyone with a Nectar loyalty card.

If you need longer to repay (up to five years) or don't hold a loyalty card you will be offered a rate of 4.1 per cent.

Loans for £7,500 to £15,000

Lenders typically offer the best rates to those borrowing between £7,500 and £15,000 as this is the bracket most banks typically advertise.

Sainsbury's Bank offers the lowest rate across the whole market, charging 2.8 per cent on amounts between £7,500 and £15,000. But to get the rate you must commit to repaying within three years and have a Nectar loyalty card.

There are slightly different rates according to how long you repay and whether you have a Nectar card.

Santander-owned Cahoot offers the same rate on up to five years on a more generous £20,000.

M&S Bank charges the next cheapest rate on up to £15,000 at 2.9 per cent, plus it gives a repayment window of up to seven years.

Zopa, John Lewis Finance and both Clydesdale and Yorkshire Banks also sit at 2.9 per cent (up to £15,000) repaid over one to five years.

Loans Of The Week | Daily Mail top personal loans 2.7% for £7.5-£25k (Nectar card deal) Over 3 years Over 3 years 3% for ££15-£25k Repay over 5 years Repay over 5 years 5.3% for £3-5K Best deal for small amounts Best deal for small amounts 2.8% for £7.5k-£15k Top rate, repay over 7 years Top rate, repay over 7 years 6.7% for £30-50k Largest personal loan available, Largest personal loan available, > Now find and apply for the best loan for you The rate you secure depends on your personal circumstances

Use your loyalty to get a better rate

Savvy borrowers with a Nationwide current account or those with a Sainsbury’s Nectar loyalty card can take advantage of existing customer deals and price guarantees to bag themselves even lower interest.

Remember, taking advantage of either the Nationwide or Sainsbury’s Bank price promise will require applying for multiple loans at the same time, which can leave a mark on your credit file and make it harder to be accepted in the future.

Do you have a Nationwide current account?

Nationwide Building Society guaranteed to its current account customers that it would undercut any personal loan offered to them by 0.5 percentage points.

The lender also already offers a low rate of 3 per cent for those wanting £7,500 to £14,999.

This mean borrowers who bank with Nationwide could bag themselves a rate closer to 2 per cent using the market-leading deals.

Do you have a Sainsbury's loyalty card?

Exclusive deal: cut your interest rate by taking out a free Nectar Card

Those with a free Sainsbury’s Nectar card can apply for a rate of 2.8 per cent on amounts between £7,500 and £15,000 when repaying over one to three years.

This loyalty-rate is 0.9 per cent lower than it offers to new customers.

Loans lasting over four or five years come with a higher interest rate of 3.8 per cent.

Although the process may seem a little long-winded for a reduction of 0.1 per cent, it could be worth signing up to the free loyalty scheme before you apply for a Sainsbury's loan as savings will add up over time.

Nectar card holders must simply swipe it in store or use it online within six months of applying for the loan, to qualify for the deal.

Don't forget the Price Promise

As an added bonus , Sainsbury's Bank has included a price promise which states if you can get a better deal elsewhere, it will beat it by 0.1 per cent.

To qualify, successful applicants must provide a written offer from the other lender in the same name as the loan offered by Sainsbury's within 28 days of the Sainsbury's Standard Loan being approved.

You must not have accepted the standard loan offer by signing and returning the Sainsbury's Loan agreement.

The loans must be compared on a like-for-like basis, based on features such as, but not limited to, length of loan, fixed loan amount and repayment structure (including interest and set up fees - if any).

However, bear in mind that multiple credit searches impact your credit footprint - if you do sign up to this deal you will have effective applied for two loans.

Find out more about how to protect your credit rating

The offer may be higher depending on your personal circumstances, credit assessment procedures and other related factors.

Best for loans of more than £15,000

If you need to take out a loan for more than £15,000 there are several options.

Several banks have now started extend the typical £7,500 - £15,000 loan bracket to £20,000 or £25,000, meaning the same market-beating rates on slightly larger amounts.

As listed above, Cahoot lends at the same price on up to £20,000.

First Direct 1st Account customers can grab a rate of 3.3 per cent on up to £30,000 over a repayment term of up to seven years.

Anyone with a Tesco Clubcard can take out a loan of between £15,001 and £25,000 for 3 per cent repaying over a term lasting up to five years. You can get the same loan for 3.1 per cent over six or seven years, the rate jumps to 5.3 per cent for eight, nine or ten year terms.

Borrow up to £50,000.

HSBC-owned bank, First Direct, charges a headline rate of 6.7 per cent on amounts between £30,000 and £50,000 with repayment terms of between 12 and 84 months. The loan is only available to customers with a First Account.

Sainsbury's Bank offers up to £40,000 with a rate of 7.6 per cent for someone needing three years to repay.

Natwest applies interest at 6.9 per cent on amounts between £25,000 and £50,000 offering terms of up to eight years.

Halifax charges 5.8 per cent on amounts between £25,000 and £35,000 and 6.8 per cent on up to £50,000 with a repayment term of between one and seven years.

ARE YOU ELIGIBLE FOR AN INTEREST-FREE SOCIAL SECURITY LOAN? If you don't have any personal savings, before going for commercial debt it's worth seeing if there are any loans available from the government's social fund available to you. The first a re crisis loans , w hich are for emergencies or disasters - basically anything that endangers your house or family. The next type are budgeting loans , w hich are interest-free loans for those receiving benefits. The minimum you can borrow is £100 and it can be used to spend on things like school uniforms or furnishings.

Loan repayments Find out what monthly payments would be on a loan and the total cost over its lifetime, where interest is charged monthly. Amount borrowed £

Term months years

Interest rate %

Total monthly payment

Total interest charge

Total repayment Find the best personal loan for you Check the top deals you could apply for





====== 985 ========

BRITS BORROWED A RECORD £10.7BILLION ON THEIR CREDIT CARDS LAST MONTH, INDUSTRY FIGURES SHOW

Consumers are borrowing record amounts on credit cards while savings have plummeted, figures show.

In September £10.7billion was spent using credit cards, the highest in a single month since records began in 1997, according to trade body UK Finance.

At the same time the amount of money being put away in savings accounts rose by just 0.9 per cent on the previous year, the weakest rise since 2007. Just two years ago the annual growth was 5.1 per cent.

Consumers are borrowing record amounts on credit cards while savings have plummeted. Pictured, stock image of credit cards

Experts warn people are using credit cards as a 'crutch' amid rising prices and slower wage growth.

With Christmas approaching, they say the debt crisis will only get worse.

Rachel Springall, of Moneyfacts, said: 'If people are borrowing more they are unlikely to be saving enough and using their credit card as a crutch.

Laura Suter, personal finance analyst at AJ Bell, said: 'Last year saw the amount people spend outstripping the amount they earn for the first time in 30 years, on average by £900 per household.'

====== 986 ========

FIRST DIRECT OFFERS NEW CREDIT CARD CUSTOMERS BOUTIQUE HOTEL STAYS TO SIGN UP

First Direct is giving away a night at a boutique hotel for two, to existing current account customers who open one of its credit cards.

Some of the hotels on offer include a quirky glamping experience in a UFO-shaped pod or a stay in a Hobbit hole in Suffolk.

Other freebies include a night at a Malmaison hotel in a converted prison worth up to £154, when This is Money checked. Should you apply? We take a look.

Would you open a credit card for a free stay in one of these? boutique hotels on offer include a hobbit hole, a converted prison or glamping in a UFO or hut at an old vicarage.

How to get your hands on the freebie

To be eligible you must already have a First Account. The account is, however, one of This is Money's favourites for its top of customer service featuring in our five of the best current accounts roundup.

The bank - which is part of HSBC - already offers freebies to new current account customers including free tech such as Bose speakers, an Amazon Alexa or £150 in Expedia vouchers to sign up.

You must have not held a credit card with the bank already, or have held one in the past six months.

And you must apply for either credit card by November 30.

There are some extra hoops you have to jump through once you have applied. If you open a gold card you must spend at least £1,500 within six months of account opening your card.

If you open a credit card you need to balance transfer over at least £1,500 worth of debt from an existing credit card.

Once you qualify you will receive an email with instructions on how to claim the stay through the third party company First Direct offers the rewards through, TLC Marketing Ltd.

Are the credit cards any good?

First Direct's credit card offers 27 months 0 per cent interest on balance transfers with a 2.29 per cent handling fee. It comes with an APR of 18.9 per cent.

This is six months short of the longest balance transfer deal on offer currently from Tesco Bank offering 33 months 0 per cent interest with a 2.69 per cent fee.

However it still appears in the top ten longest 0 per cent interest deals for transferring debt.

Remember to factor in the balance transfer fee, there are some deals offering longer 0 per cent interest deals that also include lower fees.

For example M&S Bank has a 0.99 per cent fee with 32 months 0 per cent interest.

On a balance of £2,000 that's a difference of £20 in fees and an extra five months 0 per cent interest.

The gold card comes with 17 months 0 per cent interest on purchases, after that interest is charges at 16.9 per cent APR.

Again this falls short of the best-buy deals. The market-leading purchase card – from Sainsbury's Bank - currently gives 29 months, a year longer than First Direct.

This is Money's verdict:

Freebies are a real bonus of course, but when it comes to credit cards customers should approach them with caution.

Get drawn in by the quirky boutique hotel stay and choose the wrong card and you can end up paying far more in interest and charges than the perk is worth.

This is particularly true of balance transfer deals.

You will need to factor in the cost of transferring the balance to the card and ensure you clear the full amount before the deal ends otherwise interest will quickly build up on any debt remaining.

The same is true of 0 per cent interest deals on spending, while there are no upfront fees to consider, you do need to prioritise your repayment period.

If you have a big balance to pay off or you are making a large purchase and you want to spread the cost of repaying you should first consider the market-leading 0 per cent interest credit cards.

These will give you longer to clear the amount or offering cheaper fees.

You can read more about the top deals in our round up of the best balance transfer credit cards and out best cards for spending guides.

====== 987 ========

TANDEM LAUNCHES NEW BEST BUY OVERSEAS SPENDING CREDIT CARD

Challenger bank Tandem has launched a best buy credit card offering those without a perfect credit rating free holiday spending and cash withdrawals.

The Journey Card is the second in the mobile-only bank's line-up and is designed to help those who have struggled with debt in the past rebuild their credit score.

It is one of few credit builder cards that offers the extra perk. We have taken a look at whether it's worth signing up.

Made for millennials: Tandem offers eye-catching brightly coloured credit cards to rival the likes of Starling and Monzo

Without a good credit rating it is near impossible to get the best deals on credit cards and loans or get accepted for anything from a mortgage to a mobile phone contract.

Those who haven't managed to build up a credit rating at all will find it just as hard as those who have a low score after struggling with debts or missed credit card payments.

This can hit youngsters particularly hard, with many struggling to get accepted for their first credit card because they have little or no evidence to show lenders that they will be responsible with their debts.

Credit builder cards are a good bet in this situation. They have lower entry requirements and often accept people with a history of problems debt or no borrowing experience at all.

The flip side is they charge a higher rate of interest for the privilege - cardholders should aim to clear their balance each month to avoid paying interest altogether.

Is it any good?

This is a clever move by Tandem which as a mobile-only bank appeals the most to young tech-savvy customers, plus its beefed-up budgeting features, real-time balance and spending alerts mean it's ideal for those wanting to stay on top of their debts.

The minimum credit limit is £150 depending on circumstances and borrowers are given the opportunity after four months to increase it.

There are no foreign transaction fees on purchases or cash withdrawals - a real money saver if you travel frequently.

Spending on a typical credit card typically incurs foreign transaction fees of around 3 per cent, withdrawals can then cost an extra 2 to 3 per cent on top.

The card does come with a higher than normal APR at 24.9 per cent and depending on your circumstances it may even be higher - up to 39.9 per cent.

That's expensive compared to the average card charging 18 or 19 per cent, but it's fairly low for a credit builder card which typically charge between 25 and 35 per cent.

This is largely because those with lower scores are considered more likely to fail to keep up with repayments.

How does it compare?

There are a handful of companies that offer credit cards geared to those with a lower credit rating: Vanquis, Aquis, Marbles, Capital One, Barclaycard Initial and Tesco Foundation.

A sprinkling of these will offer short 0 per cent interest deals on balance transfers or purchases but there is only one deal that also offers free overseas spending.

The Aqua Reward credit card is the only rival deal offering no fees on spending abroad. It also offers 0.5 per cent cashback on your spending.

While the rate you will get will depend on your circumstances it starts with a much higher APR at 34.9 per cent (and can go as high as 59.95 per cent).

That's 10 per cent higher than Tandem's best rate.

While Tandem offers fee-free cash withdrawals on the card too, Aqua charges 3 per cent if you withdraw cash overseas and a higher interest rate on the amount from 44.9 per cent to 69.95 per cent.

Overall the Aqua card may offer cashback but it will likely prove far more expensive, particularly if you use it at an ATM abroad.

====== 988 ========

SMALL CAP IDEAS: MANX TELECOM’S HEARING SOLUTION ADDS TECH SPARKLE TO SOLID TELECOMS ARM

Even to someone with perfect hearing Manx Telecom’s new mobile-based solution for hearing loss is audibly better.

For many millions of people with partial deafness, it seemingly offers hope for a real improvement in their life quality.

While helping with hearing loss might seem an unusual departure for an Isle of Man telecoms group, at the root is a core business that is about as steady as it gets.

Solution: Even to someone with perfect hearing Manx Telecom’s new mobile-based solution for hearing loss is audibly better

Manx has been the dominant telecoms operator on the island for 129 years.

Services include the normal suite for an incumbent telco - broadband, telephony, mobile, managed services and IT.

Gary Lamb, Manx’s chief executive, says the telecoms arm generates cash, pays dividends and invests in infrastructure but with a very stable population there is not much opportunity to grow the business.

That was why Vannin Ventures was established in 2016.

While a 100 per cent-owned subsidiary, it is a deliberately separate operation to the telco operation.

Vannin’s most recent significant investment (after its first investment in Partitionware) is a 67 per cent stake in Goshawk, the company that invented the hearing loss solution.

Lamb says the Isle of Man is an ideal place to develop new technology.

The island was the first to introduce 3G, for example, while a captive population of 85,000 is an ideal testing ground for new products.

Steady: While helping with hearing loss might seem an unusual departure for an Isle of Man telecoms group, at the root is a core business that is about as steady as it gets

And that is what Manx is doing with Goshawk.

Trials have been ongoing for some months to an enthusiastic response - 89% of those taking part said it would help.

A formal launch took place on the island last month ahead of a roll-out into the UK mainland over the EE network in 2019.

And, as impressive as the tech, are the projected numbers if all goes to plan.

Lamb believes Vannin’s revenues can eventually outstrip those of Manx.

There are 3mlillion people in the UK with moderate to severe hearing problems, he says, and within five years Lamb wants to have a fifth of those, or 600,000 as customers.

Pricing is likely to be between £15-£20 per month, which is £180 per year at the lower end,

That equates to annual revenues of £108mln on 600,000 subscribers.

Manx Telecom, meanwhile, generated £80million in sales in 2017.

Admittedly these are best case projections, but Lamb’s enthusiasm is understandable especially as there is scope to develop the technology further.

Goshawk has been launched initially as a mobile application but should work equally well on fixed lines, he says.

Matthew Turner, Goshawk’s inventor and himself profoundly deaf, meanwhile is working on the European roll-out.

Language is not an issue and as the software required is installed at the network provider end, ie. Manx, and not by the user, roll-out costs should not be excessive.

Vannin, meanwhile, is looking at other products such as an e-sim card that can be updated remotely and eliminates the need for the physical plastic version.

In short, that is a lot of potential all of which seems underpinned by the steady telecoms business.

For instance, if the final dividend is increased by the same amount as the half year, the dividend yield currently is 7.1 per cent at 169p.

Like other incumbents, Manx Telecom is upgrading the network under its licence area to superfast broadband but the costs currently seem well within in its capability.

'We are broadly generating £27million in EBITDA a year and generating £25mln of cash from which we pay £13mln dividends, £8mln-£10mln of capex and debt interest.

'That leaves between £1mln and £4mln to fund new ventures such as Vannin.'

Manx Telecom is committed to provide £10million of funding to Goshawk over three years, after which the expectation is that it will become self-funding.

Possibly there are doubts that such an established business as Manx Telecom is the right vehicle for a tech start-up, but management has made a major effort to keep the two apart.

The idea behind different management and premises, for example, is to build up Vannin’s own identity.

All will be much clearer in a year’s time once the UK roll-out is fully underway and when Vannin could be on the way to becoming a very valuable asset.

A rating of 13 times at Manx’s current 165p share price would seem fair for the telecoms business even without this possibility.

For an investment with income and some serious growth potential, Manx is well worth a look.

====== 989 ========

SHARE PUNT OF THE WEEK: PUB CHAIN FULLER'S

Trusty: Fuller's now has an estate stretching from Brighton to Birmingham

WHO IS IT? Home of the trusty Fuller's pub brand, Fuller Smith & Turner dates back to a private brewhouse which began operating in the 1600s.

It now runs 179 tenanted pubs and 209 managed pubs and hotels, with an estate stretching from Brighton to Birmingham. The group still has its own brewery and produces brands such as London Pride and Frontier. It also owns cider brand Cornish Orchards and craft brewer Dark Star.

WHAT'S THE LATEST? Over the summer, Fuller's said the months from April to July had seen strong trading. Sales in the managed pubs and hotels climbed 4 per cent, profits in the tenanted inns were up 4 per cent and total beer and cider volumes were flat.

It said it was planning two railway station sites at Euston and Liverpool Street, but warned that Brexit may impact its business if it puts pressure on consumer spending.

WHO BACKS IT? Lady Fuller, an ancestor of John Fuller who was instrumental in the pub group's founding in the 1800s, is still the tenth largest shareholder. Others on the list include Lindsell Train, Blackrock, Standard Life Aberdeen and Columbia Threadneedle.

WHY YOU SHOULD INVEST... Laith Khalaf, an analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, says: 'Fullers is a solid company which boasts seven decades of unbroken dividend growth and a sizeable real estate portfolio.'

Beer-making accounts for around 7 per cent of its profits, he adds, and the company is trading below its five-year average valuation, making it a potentially good time to get involved.

... AND WHY YOU SHOULDN'T The next few months might not be plain sailing. Khalaf says: 'It's exposed to the UK consumer, and in particular the London consumer, and hence Brexit – though it's hard to foresee a shortage of after-work drinkers in the City.'

As with many other High Street and hospitality businesses, profits are being eaten up by rises in the national living wage, sky-high business rates and the apprenticeship levy.

====== 990 ========

INVESTMENT EXTRA: WILL VODAFONE REGRET SAVING ITS DIVIDEND?

Vodafone can hardly be accused of having feeble ambitions. When the telecoms firm launched its improvement plan in 2013, under the codename Project Spring, it said it wanted to become one of the top-two providers in all of its markets.

But five years on, shares have slumped by 25 per cent and investors are beginning to wonder whether those goals are achievable.

The firm has been pushed to pay off its £46billion debt pile, has struggled with exchange rates in some foreign markets and analysts have stubbornly refused to upgrade its earnings predictions this year.

Vodafone shares have slumped by 25 per cent over the past five years

As Vodafone's half-year results approached this week, one shareholder told the Mail there were questions over whether the business would carry on paying its attractive dividend.

As it turned out, chief executive Nick Read – who took over from former boss Vittorio Colao last month – decided not to axe the £3.4billion payout to shareholders. But whether that will be the right move in time is still a matter for debate.

Berenberg analyst Usman Ghazi said: 'It's perfectly fine if you want to cut the dividend and tell investors you're going to do a certain thing with the headroom you've created.

'But at Vodafone that narrative doesn't exist, so cutting the dividend would be a lazy thing to do.'

For some time Vodafone has been struggling to draw investor sentiment on side, and cutting the dividend would at least have given the appearance that management were doing something.

First, Ghazi explains, investors who are looking at the telecoms sectors steer towards companies that have garnered earnings upgrades – where analysts have boosted their estimates for the firm's financial performance.

But the upgrades landscape for Vodafone has remained bleak this year. Part of this is down to currency headwinds in markets such as Turkey and South Africa that provide much of its revenue growth.

Second, government auctions for the new 'superfast' mobile internet 5G have been more expensive than expected so far.

Vodafone won a large chunk of the 5G airwaves in the UK, paying a hefty £378.2million. But it paid £2.1billion in Italy, and such a high price has made traders nervous about upcoming auctions in Germany.

Slashing the dividend would have reassured the market that the firm had a little more cash in its pocket if conditions became even tighter.

Jerry Dellis, an analyst at Jefferies, suggests that the decision to leave dividends flat on last year, while aiming to decrease debt, 'leaves little margin for error as competitive conditions and spectrum outcomes remain largely outside management's control'.

Read, 54, is now planning to cut £1billion of costs in three years instead of five, by simplifying and digitalising the business.

Underlying profits rose 2.9 per cent to £6.2billion in the six months to September. Though sales had slowed, the firm managed to wring out cost savings which pushed up profits.

Analysts at Bernstein called the results 'expectedly wretched', but said the full-year earnings guidance and maintained dividend were 'positive and good news for investors in this beleaguered name'.

Ghazi believes investors will be rewarded further if they have the patience to stick around. 'We don't see risk to the dividend,' he says. 'But you've got to be patient.'

====== 991 ========

DRIVING THEORY TEST NOW FEATURES CGI SCENARIOS FOR LEARNERS TO SPOT ADVERSE WEATHER HAZARDS

The UK driving theory test will now include computer-generated hazard perception assessments focused around the dangers of adverse weather conditions.

The new clips have been used in the car theory test since November 1 and will be part of motorcycle tests from 1 December 2018.

Road safety minister Jesse Norman who said the scenarios would help learners to 'overcome real-life challenges they will face on the road'.

The CGI scenarios will test how quickly learners can spot hazards around them, such as a deer running out in front of them when it's snowing and an HGV driver falling asleep at the wheel on a motorway at night.

The Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency, which governs the driving test, said the changes would help to improve road safety, especially in show, rain, fog and other difficult driving conditions.

There were be 23 realistic scenarios added to the hazard perception test, all of which simulate adverse weather.

This also includes driving in gusty winds and when the sun is low - a problem motorists face at dusk and dawn.

And it's in these sorts of conditions that statistics show a spike in accidents on roads.

In 2017 alone there were 16,406 accidents in rain, sleet, snow or fog, of which 205 were fatal.

The DVSA hopes the new measures will build on the positive impact the hazard perception portion of the driving theory tests has had since it was introduced in 2002.

Tricky weather tests for new drivers: Learners face new hazard perception tests during their UK driving test which measure how quickly they can spot potential risks on the road when it is snowing, raining or windy

Examples given by the DVSA include a snow driving scenario where a deer in the distance ends up running out in front of the vehicle

The government agency behind the hazard-spotting assessment has reduced post-test at-fault collisions involving new drivers by at least 11 per cent.

In 2015 the DVSA switched to CGI footage instead of live action videos that had been used in the initial 13 years of the hazard perception test.

Road Safety Minister Jesse Norman, said: 'The UK has some of the safest roads in the world, but we're always looking for ways to make them safer.

'These new hazard perception clips offer more realistic driving conditions to test a learner driver's ability, preparing them for overcoming the real-life challenges they will face on the road – something that should benefit all road users.'

A rain and fog scenario shows a motorcyclist filtering into the overtaking lane at the last minute on a dual carriageway due to road works ahead

A night driving example shows an HGV driver falling asleep at the wheel and veering across the motorway

As well as scenarios for adverse weather, the DVSA will also be introducing additional CGI clips that simulate situations involving vulnerable road users - like children, cyclists, and motorcyclists.

DVSA Chief Driving Examiner, Mark Winn, added: 'DVSA's priority is to help everyone through a lifetime of safe driving.

The driving theory test has included a hazard perception test (HPT) since 2002 using live action footage. It wasn't until 2015 that CGI scenarios were introduced

'Every year too many people are injured on our roads by hazards frequently encountered by drivers and we are determined to do more; we know the theory test helps saves lives so we are using CGI clips to further improve road safety.'

DVSA will also be introducing the new CGI clips to the LGV (large goods vehicle) and PCV (passenger carrying vehicle) theory tests from 1 January 2019, DVSA confirmed.

Ian McIntosh, ceo of RED Driving School, welcomed the arrival of the new CGI tests.

'The CGI clips have enabled the DVSA to add in scenarios that would be too difficult or dangerous to actual film.

'We absolutely support these developments as ultimately it helps in training people to be safe drivers for life.'

The hazard perception test has come in for some scrutiny in recent years, with many suggesting it fails to test drivers' abilities to spot potholes or pedestrians with mobile phones.

GoCompare asked 2,000 Britons of all ages to take a modified version of the test, giving the motorists just five seconds to spot the danger.

Just one person spotted all 10 correctly, with the most common score being 4 out of 10 - a fail, by the test standards.

You can take the test for yourself here.

====== 992 ========

FINANCIAL CALCULATORS - WORK OUT HOW TO MAKE MONEY AND SAVE MONEY

Are these Greece's most upmarket properties? Half of the houses on this luxury eco-development - which includes two golf courses - have been bought at an average price of £5m

====== 993 ========

HISTORIC INFLATION CALCULATOR: HOW THE VALUE OF MONEY HAS CHANGED SINCE 1900

This calculator uses official UK inflation data to show how prices have changed and what money used to be worth.

Prices And Inflation Calculator In today's comparatively low inflation economy it's easy to forget what a problem inflation was for politicians, economists and consumers. This calculator lets you see how the value of money has changed between 1900 and 2017. It uses annual RPI inflation for which the most recent data is 2017. Price then, price now Amount: (price then) £ s d Year: Select year 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 1996 1995 1994 1993 1992 1991 1990 1989 1988 1987 1986 1985 1984 1983 1982 1981 1980 1979 1978 1977 1976 1975 1974 1973 1972 1971 1970 1969 1968 1967 1966 1965 1964 1963 1962 1961 1960 1959 1958 1957 1956 1955 1954 1953 1952 1951 1950 1949 1948 1947 1946 1945 1944 1943 1942 1941 1940 1939 1938 1937 1936 1935 1934 1933 1932 1931 1930 1929 1928 1927 1926 1925 1924 1923 1922 1921 1920 1919 1918 1917 1916 1915 1914 1913 1912 1911 1910 1909 1908 1907 1906 1905 1904 1903 1902 1901 Calculate Result Result: £ Lump sum What would a lump sum today have been worth in previous years? Amount: (price today) £ Year: Select year 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 1996 1995 1994 1993 1992 1991 1990 1989 1988 1987 1986 1985 1984 1983 1982 1981 1980 1979 1978 1977 1976 1975 1974 1973 1972 1971 1970 1969 1968 1967 1966 1965 1964 1963 1962 1961 1960 1959 1958 1957 1956 1955 1954 1953 1952 1951 1950 1949 1948 1947 1946 1945 1944 1943 1942 1941 1940 1939 1938 1937 1936 1935 1934 1933 1932 1931 1930 1929 1928 1927 1926 1925 1924 1923 1922 1921 1920 1919 1918 1917 1916 1915 1914 1913 1912 1911 1910 1909 1908 1907 1906 1905 1904 1903 1902 1901 Calculate Result Result: £ Total inflation since… What has the total rate of inflation been since a particular year? Year: Select year 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 1996 1995 1994 1993 1992 1991 1990 1989 1988 1987 1986 1985 1984 1983 1982 1981 1980 1979 1978 1977 1976 1975 1974 1973 1972 1971 1970 1969 1968 1967 1966 1965 1964 1963 1962 1961 1960 1959 1958 1957 1956 1955 1954 1953 1952 1951 1950 1949 1948 1947 1946 1945 1944 1943 1942 1941 1940 1939 1938 1937 1936 1935 1934 1933 1932 1931 1930 1929 1928 1927 1926 1925 1924 1923 1922 1921 1920 1919 1918 1917 1916 1915 1914 1913 1912 1911 1910 1909 1908 1907 1906 1905 1904 1903 1902 1901 Calculate Result Result: % Inflation in a certain year What was the rate of inflation in any previous year? Year: Select year 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 1996 1995 1994 1993 1992 1991 1990 1989 1988 1987 1986 1985 1984 1983 1982 1981 1980 1979 1978 1977 1976 1975 1974 1973 1972 1971 1970 1969 1968 1967 1966 1965 1964 1963 1962 1961 1960 1959 1958 1957 1956 1955 1954 1953 1952 1951 1950 1949 1948 1947 1946 1945 1944 1943 1942 1941 1940 1939 1938 1937 1936 1935 1934 1933 1932 1931 1930 1929 1928 1927 1926 1925 1924 1923 1922 1921 1920 1919 1918 1917 1916 1915 1914 1913 1912 1911 1910 1909 1908 1907 1906 1905 1904 1903 1902 1901 1900 Calculate Result Result: % Total inflation in between… What was the rate of inflation between one year and another? Initial year: Select year 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 1996 1995 1994 1993 1992 1991 1990 1989 1988 1987 1986 1985 1984 1983 1982 1981 1980 1979 1978 1977 1976 1975 1974 1973 1972 1971 1970 1969 1968 1967 1966 1965 1964 1963 1962 1961 1960 1959 1958 1957 1956 1955 1954 1953 1952 1951 1950 1949 1948 1947 1946 1945 1944 1943 1942 1941 1940 1939 1938 1937 1936 1935 1934 1933 1932 1931 1930 1929 1928 1927 1926 1925 1924 1923 1922 1921 1920 1919 1918 1917 1916 1915 1914 1913 1912 1911 1910 1909 1908 1907 1906 1905 1904 1903 1902 1901 Final year: Select year 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 1996 1995 1994 1993 1992 1991 1990 1989 1988 1987 1986 1985 1984 1983 1982 1981 1980 1979 1978 1977 1976 1975 1974 1973 1972 1971 1970 1969 1968 1967 1966 1965 1964 1963 1962 1961 1960 1959 1958 1957 1956 1955 1954 1953 1952 1951 1950 1949 1948 1947 1946 1945 1944 1943 1942 1941 1940 1939 1938 1937 1936 1935 1934 1933 1932 1931 1930 1929 1928 1927 1926 1925 1924 1923 1922 1921 1920 1919 1918 1917 1916 1915 1914 1913 1912 1911 1910 1909 1908 1907 1906 1905 1904 1903 1902 1901 Calculate Result Result: %

Note: This calculator uses annual RPI (Retail Prices Index) data and reflects the percentage change over that 12 month period. Figures for 1900-1948 are the official rough estimates from the Office For National Statistics (ONS).

We update the calculator in mid-January when the ONS publishes its annual inflation figure for the previous year.

Inflation: 50 years from 1966 to 2016

Archive

====== 994 ========

MORTGAGE CALCULATOR: COMPARE THE TRUE COST OF RATES AND FEES

Our True cost mortgage calculator allows you to really compare how different home loans stack up by checking what arrangement fees add to the overall cost over the life of a deal.

It will tell you the monthly repayments for rival mortgages and crucially let you add fees, so that you can compare the total cost over a deal period, such as a two, or five-year fixed rate mortgage.

====== 995 ========

MORTGAGE CALCULATOR: HOW MUCH CAN I AFFORD TO BORROW?

Mortgage affordability calculator: How much you can borrow?

Find out how much you can afford to borrow, or whether you can afford your existing mortgage, with This is Money's mortgage affordability calculator.

And as lenders try to push borrowers on interest-only loans onto repayment deals, see the difference between capital repayment and interest-only deals



Buying or selling a home? We can save you money...



====== 996 ========

THE 10 ENGLISH BEACHES WHERE TOURISTS ARE BEING TOLD NOT TO GO SWIMMING

The beaches in England deemed too dangerous for swimming: Tynemouth Cullercoats (Tyne and Wear); Allonby South (Cumbria); Scarborough South Bay (Yorkshire); Burnham Jetty North (Somerset); Weston Main (Somerset); Combe Martin (Devon); Ilfracombe Wildersmouth (Devon); Instow (Devon) and Leigh Bell Wharf (Essex) Clacton - Groyne 41 (Essex)

Ten English beaches have been ruled as being unfit for bathing after failing strict water quality tests.

The Environment Agency examines water quality at 420 bathing spots throughout England between May and September each year to establish how much bacteria is living in them.

And figures released for 2018 show that 10 spots have been rated as being 'poor' for water quality - up from only six beaches in 2017.

Three of the poorly rated beaches are in the north of England - Tynemouth Cullercoats beach, Allonby South beach in Cumbria and Scarborough South Bay.

At Tynemouth Cullercoats, the Environment Agency in the North East said that DNA analysis had identified a predominantly human source that was affecting water quality and that it is committed to identifying the source.

Two of the beaches are in the south east of the country - Leigh Bell Wharf and Clacton Groyne 41 (by the pier), both in Essex.

Last year, baffled officials from Tendring Council revealed they were unable to understand why Clacton's Groyne 41 beach kept failing water quality tests.

Meanwhile at Leigh Bell Wharf, its location next to a busy working fishing port is believed to disturb the silt, which can have an effect on water tests.

Ten English beaches have been ruled as being unfit for bathing after failing strict water quality tests and being rated as poor. One of them is Weston-super-Mare main beach, pictured

Scarborough's popular South Bay was ruled as having poor water quality for a second year running in the Environment Agency tests

Two beaches in Essex have been ruled as having poor water quality. One of them is Clacton Groyne 41 beach, left. Officials have been left baffled as to why it keeps failing the tests. Combe Martin beach, right, is one of three Devon beaches that failed water quality tests. It also had a poor rating last year

The rest of the poorly rated beaches are Weston-super-Mare (the main beach) and Burnham Jetty North, both in Somerset, and Combe Martin, Instow and Ilfracombe Wildersmouth, all in Devon.

Earlier this year it was revealed that a 12-year-old girl who went swimming every day at Ilfracombe Wildersmouth beach ended up becoming infected by parasites and contracting cryptosporidiosis, a diarrhoea-related disease.

The Environment Agency and local officials are also trying to work out why there has been a reduction in water quality at both Weston-super-Mare and Burnham Jetty.

At Combe Martin beach, warnings against swimming have been previously issued as a result of short-term pollution.

While at Instow beach, the Environment Agency says there is permanent advice against bathing as it is 'not feasible' for it to reach the minumum standard.

To carry out the analysis of water quality, 20 samples are taken at each beach during the bathing season before they are tested in Environment Agency labs for escherichia coli (or E. coli) and intestinal enterococci.

The beach at Instow in North Devon, left, where swimmers are advised against bathing. The Environment Agency says there is permanent advice against bathing here as it is almost impossible for water quality to reach the required standard. Ilfracombe Wildersmouth beach, right, was also rated as being poor. Earlier this year, it was revealed that a 12-year-old girl who went swimming every day here for two weeks ended up becoming infected by parasites

E.coli is well known for causing illness, with symptoms including cramps, diarrhoea and vomiting.

Meanwhile, high levels of intestinal enterococci suggest a presence of either human or animal faeces in the water.

If a beach doesn't meet the minimum standard, it must display a sign advising against bathing, although the beach does remain open to the public.

The bathing water classifications are not based on an individual year's results, but on an assessment of up to four years' of data and are relatively constant for most sites.

Because of this, although an individual year's results do have an effect, they won't always change a classification.

The good news is that the new Environment Agency data shows that 97.9 per cent of the bathing waters tested met the required standard.

For a fourth year running the beach at Burnham Jetty North in Somerset, left, has been ruled as unfit for bathing. The bathing spot at Leigh Bell Wharf, right, had previously been rated having 'sufficient' water quality but now it has been deemed as poor

In addition, 92.4 per cent of the beaches were given a good or excellent rating with spots in Whitby, Sidmouth and Skegness being rated as excellent for a fourth year running.

In the early 1990s just 28 per cent of bathing waters would have met today's standards but dramatic improvements have been made to water quality over the past two decades, in part due to EA regulation reducing pollution from water companies and industry.

Environment Minister Thérèse Coffey said: 'This is great news for anyone who enjoys a trip to the seaside.

'We want everyone to be confident in the quality of our bathing waters and that's why the Environment Agency carry out regular tests to protect the health of visitors.

'Britain's beaches are visited around 130 million times each year, generating over £7 billion for the economy.

'Working together we can all keep driving up standards to reduce pollution, ensuring everyone can continue to enjoy our iconic coastline.'

And Emma Howard Boyd, Chair of the Environment Agency, added: 'Seaside tourism is worth over £7 billion to the economy and good water quality is essential for people to visit and enjoy our beautiful beaches.

'The Environment Agency's hard work has helped 388 beaches achieve the top Excellent or Good ratings this year and at beach cleans throughout the summer I've seen the commitment of local communities and campaigners to reduce pollution and protect our environment.

'Everyone can take small steps to help us protect water quality as we continue work with water companies, councils and local communities to maintain high bathing water standards.'

Tynemouth Cullercoats beach, left, has been rated as having poor water quality. In 2015 it was rated as 'good'. It is believed that a predominantly human source is affecting water quality. Allonby South beach, right, in Cumbria received a poor rating in 2018 after receiving a sufficient rating for the three previous years

While an Environment Agency spokesman added: 'There have been dramatic improvements to water quality over the past two decades, much of this is down to investment from the water industry to reduce pollution from infrastructure including combined sewer overflows (CSOs).

'CSOs are a necessary part of the current sewerage system. They act as relief valves that prevent the system from overloading during storms which would otherwise result in sewage flooding homes, roads and open spaces.'

Regarding the results at Leigh Bell Wharf, Councillor Mark Flewitt, from Southend-on-Sea Borough Council, said: 'It is clearly disappointing that the bathing water quality has declined at Leigh Bell Wharf.

'As a seaside resort, I do not underestimate the importance of clean bathing waters in attracting and sustaining visitors, so I am pleased to see the bathing water quality rated as sufficient, good or excellent on all other beaches in the borough.

Seaside tourism is worth over £7 billion to the economy and good water quality is essential for people to visit and enjoy our beautiful beaches Emma Howard Boyd, Chair of the Environment Agency

'It should be noted that the water quality rating is based on an average of test results over a four-year period and so the reclassification is not necessarily a reflection of the quality of bathing waters as they stand today. Anglian Water has recently carried out substantial work on drainage connections in the area but it will take some time to see what impact this has on water quality.

'Our priority now must be to support the work of Anglian Water and The Environment Agency in tracing the sources of the bacteria and ensuring any necessary action is taken to bring the bathing waters back up to standard.'

Commenting on Tynemouth Cullercoats beach, Northumbrian Water said: 'Multi-agency work is ongoing at Cullercoats, the only bathing water area in the North East to not pass the standards, to identify and remedy the cause of a localised deterioration in quality resulting in its "Poor" classification.'

A spokesman for Tendring District Council said Clacton, and the wider district, had a number of top quality beaches – with seven given Seaside Awards, including two Blue Flags, this year.

He added: 'Clacton has a number of first-class beaches and bathing spots, and is a popular destination for residents and visitors alike, but the council is not resting on its laurels.

'The issues around Groyne 41 are contained to a very small area, and just a few hundred yards along the beach the water quality is rated as excellent.

'Investigation work on the causes of the poor water quality around Groyne 41, carried out by ourselves and partners including the Environment Agency and Anglia Water, have been ongoing for some time now.

'However, although the experts including microbiologists have yet to determine the cause, work is still ongoing and we are hopeful a solution will be found.'

Last year, meanwhile, scientists found that plastic pollution is overwhelming Britain's coastlines, making up close to 90 per cent of litter on beaches.

