Last month she revealed that she used her daughter that she shares with ex-Chris Martin as part of her 'focus group'.

'She has her finger on the pulse,' she told Glamour UK.

Tied-the-knot: Gwyneth Paltrow married Brad Falchuk in a gorgeous ceremony late last month at her Hamptons property

Family tells the truth: Last month Gwyneth revealed that she used Apple in her Goop focus group 'to try keep up' with the trends

'She really is my focus group; I am always asking her opinion about this or that. She represents that Gen Z generation.

'I don't know half the things she talks about, but I try to keep up with her!'

And while Gwyneth confessed in the interview that she felt slightly behind the times compared to Apple, she did take to Instagram over the weekend to write the words TMI on Hailey Bieber's photo after her husband Justin said she was 'turning him on'.

Too much information! 'I don't need to see him saying, "You turn me on". Come on. I'm too old to see that,' she dished to longtime friend, Catt Sadler about why she told Justin Bieber TMI on Hailey Bieber's post

'I don't need to see him saying, "You turn me on". Come on. I'm too old to see that,' she dished to longtime friend, Catt Sadler.

And while the media were fast to report on her comment, the Iron Man star revealed she didn't know if the model or her musician husband had even responded back.

'I have no idea. I literally am barely on Instagram, sometimes I just get a little salty on there. So I would not know if someone responded. But I like to joke around sometimes.'

====== 307 ========

KAT VON D PACKS ON VERY AMOROUS PDA WITH HER HUSBAND RAFAEL REYES AFTER LUNCH

She is fast approaching her due date.

And Kat Von D couldn't keep her hands off her husband Rafael Reyes when they packed on the PDA after their lunch together on Wednesday.

The heavily pregnant LA Ink star, 36, wrapped her arms around her love's neck when they passionately locked lips in the street, not worried about prying eyes.



Locking lips: Kat Von D packed on VERY amorous PDA with her husband Rafael Reyes after lunch on Wednesday as heavily pregnant star nears her imminent due date

Equally into the kiss, the tattooed hunk slipped his arms beneath Kat's jacket as he brought his ladylove closer to him.

The married couple, who tied the knot earlier this year, were the picture of newly weds when they shared their intimate moment together.

Tattoo artist Kat displayed her growing bump in her top when she headed out for the lunch date with her husband in tow.

Together: The heavily pregnant LA Ink star, 36, wrapped her arms around her love's neck when they passionately locked lips in the street, not worried about prying eyes

The inked artist, whose full name is Katherine von Drachenberg, is expecting her first child soon and she revealed the newborn will be a boy.

Kat shared the happy news back in May with her legion of loyal fans on her Instagram account.

The couple were married in an intimate Beverly Hills ceremony earlier this year, before throwing an extravagant goth-infused wedding in early June.

Bumping along: Tattoo artist Kat displayed her growing bump in her top when she headed out for the lunch date with her husband in tow

The inked star is best known for work as a tattoo artist on the TLC reality television show LA Ink, which premiered in the U.S. in August of 2007 and ran for four seasons.

Also the tattooed mother-to-be launched her own make-up line Kat Von D Beauty back in 2008.

Kat revealed her beauty routine hasn't changed since her pregnancy because she still enjoys wearing heavy make-up.

She told Hello Giggles: 'Ha! One would think it might change, but turns out I’m still enjoying wearing just as much makeup as I always have!'

====== 308 ========

VICTORIA BECKHAM COORDINATES WITH BROOKLYN AS THE PAIR DON TROUSER SUITS TO JOIN DAVID FOR DINNER

She is a fashion designer and he is a budding photographer with a passion for art.

And Victoria Beckham has clearly passed on her sense of style to her son Brooklyn, as the pair both stepped out in eye-catching trouser suits for a family dinner with David Beckham on Wednesday.

Former Spice Girl Victoria, 44, could not be missed in her chic pastel yellow ensemble, as the trio were spotted leaving Michelin starred restaurant Texture in Mayfair, London.

Stunning: Victoria Beckham, 44, has clearly passed on her sense of style to her son Brooklyn, as the pair both donned sleek trouser suits for a family dinner with dad David on Wednesday

Her wide-legged trousers disguised her sky-high heels as they neatly touched the floor while she strolled towards their ride home.

Victoria draped her tailored jacket over her shoulders, and slipped into a sheer black three-quarter-length sleeve top, which allowed her lacy under-layer to be seen.

The mother-of-four styled her brunette locks into an effortlessly chic ponytail and enhanced her pretty features with a bronzed make-up look.

She added another splash of colour with pillar-box-red polish on her nails and accessorised with a metallic gold watch.

Dapper: Brooklyn Beckham, 19, meanwhile wore a corduroy suit in a sumptuous chocolate shade for their swanky dinner

Chic: Victoria draped her tailored jacket over her shoulders, and slipped into a sheer black three-quarter-length sleeve top, which allowed her lacy under-layer to be seen

Striding out: Her wide-legged trousers disguised her sky-high heels as they neatly touched the floor while she strolled towards their ride home

Brooklyn Beckham, 19, meanwhile wore a corduroy suit in a sumptuous chocolate shade for their swanky dinner.

The art-enthusiast added some light to his wintry look with a crisp white shirt buttoned up to the collar.

Brooklyn made his way to their awaiting vehicle in dark brown boots and sported Harry Potter inspired spectacles.

Gorgeous: The mother-of-four styled her brunette locks into an effortlessly chic ponytail and enhanced her pretty features with a bronzed make-up look

Not interested: Victoria appeared to be overcome with shyness as she hid from the cameras flashing as they headed home

Chic: She added another splash of colour with pillar-box-red polish on her nails and accessorised with a metallic gold watch

Adding an interesting twist to his ensemble, the teenager clipped his keys onto a bright yellow clasp, and hung it from the belt loop on his trousers.

David Beckham, 43, looked dapper in black trousers and a sleek black overcoat, with a grey Herringbone flap-cap atop his head.

The football icon and his wife appeared to be overcome with shyness as they both hid from the cameras flashing as they headed home.

Complete look: Brooklyn made his way to their awaiting vehicle in dark brown boots

Looking good: Art-enthusiast Brooklyn added some light to his wintry look with a crisp white shirt buttoned up to the collar

Distinctive: David Beckham, 43, looked dapper in black trousers and a sleek black overcoat, with a grey Herringbone flap-cap atop his head

The Beckham's family outing comes after Victoria insisted she will 'absolutely' be attending next summer's Spice Girls reunion tour, despite deciding not to perform in it.

The singer-turned-fashionista spoke to Extra before accepting her People's Choice Award, where she was asked point blank why she isn't taking part with her fellow band mates.

'I have so much going on with my business and my family,' Victoria explained. 'I think the girls are going to do a great job!'

Victoria went on to insist she will be attending one of the dates - which keep being added to thanks to popular demand from the fans.

====== 309 ========

IRINA SHAYK AND BRADLEY COOPER STEP OUT WITH DAUGHTER LEA IN LA

Last month it was reported that the pair were 'miserable together' and had been that way 'for months'.

But whatever is happening behind the scenes, in public Irina Shayk and Bradley Cooper are still very much a couple.

The two stepped out as a family in Santa Monica with their one-year-old daughter Lea De Seine Shayk Cooper on Wednesday.

Irina, 32, and her boyfriend, 43, were dressed casually as they took their little girl to a birthday party ahead of Thanksgiving.

Scroll down for video

Family outing: Irina Shayk and Bradley Cooper enjoyed an outing with their one-year-old daughter Lea De Seine in Santa Monica on Wednesday

Irina showcased her impeccable chic style with a v-neck form-fitting top and a high waited maxi floral skirt.

The dotting mom accessorised her glam look small Chanel red cross-body bag, the retails for $3500, and a large white diaper bag.

She completed her ensemble with a pair of designer glasses and kept her brunette locks styled back into a messy low bun.

Effortless style: Irina showcased her impeccable chic style with a v-neck form-fitting top and a high waited maxi floral skirt

Natural beauty: Irina appeared to be wearing a very minimal amount of makeup with a clear complexion and nude pout

Irina appeared to be wearing a very minimal amount of makeup with a clear complexion and nude pout.

Bradley opted for a casual look in a grey T-shit and black trousers for the family day out.

The Star Is Born actor and director was in charge of carrying the couple's daughter, Lea, who was dressed in a matching pink tracksuit.

Is this true? Irina and Bradley's outing comes after Page Six reported last month that the pair who've been dating for over three years were 'miserable together' and had been 'for months'

Irina and Bradley's outing comes after Page Six reported last month that the pair who've been dating for over three years were 'miserable together' and had been 'for months'.

'He doesn't drink and is into spirituality,' the source said. 'She wants to go out,' revealed their source.

The 5ft10 beauty 'went to Ibiza by her herself for a party' tossed by photographers Mert Alas and Marcus Piggott.'

Bradley, looked sulky and uncomfortable during a dinner at the upscale New York City restaurant Masa, the paper previously reported.

Party girl: 'He doesn't drink and is into spirituality,' the source said. 'She wants to go out,' revealed their source (Irina pictured solo at the GQ Man Of The Year Awards in Berlin, Germany 2018)

Just rumors? A separate source insisted to the paper that the couple is doing fine, with one eyewitness noting they 'looked cozy and happy' on a recent outing to the eatery Sant Ambroeus

Another source told the newspaper: 'They were not looking happy ... they barely spoke to each other at the start of the meal. Halfway through, she started looking off to the side and he was moody.'

There has been chatter over the celebrity couple's relationship problems 'in that big Russian model community,' an insider told the paper.

A separate source insisted to the paper that the couple is doing fine, with one eyewitness noting they 'looked cozy and happy' on a recent outing to the eatery Sant Ambroeus.

Irina and Bradley were first linked in April 2015. The good looking duo call New York City home; they reportedly moved in together in November 2015 before welcoming Lea in March 2017.

====== 310 ========

ALICIA SILVERSTONE REACHES A DIVORCE SETTLEMENT WITH EX CHRISTOPHER JARECKI

Alicia Silverstone has reached a divorce settlement with Christopher Jarecki.

The couple, who have seven-year-old son Bear together, appointed a private judge to help them resolve the matter as they had "all issues in dispute".

Court records seen by The Blast have now confirmed a final judgement package was signed and entered into the divorce case on November 16, after the star asked for a private judge to help her with the settlement.

Shocker: Alicia Silverstone has reached a divorce settlement with Christopher Jarecki

It was revealed by the same site earlier in the week that the Clueless actress, 41, who is seeking joint custody, was still locked in negotiations with her ex, 45.

The terms of the settlement is currently unclear, and the couple won't be officially divorced until the agreement drawn up by the private judge is signed by the court.

The pair, who filed for divorce in May after 13 years of marriage, have been unable to come to an agreement, and have decided to split the cost of hiring a private judge, whose main objective will be to secure a 'signed judgement'.

Alicia and Chris are proving difficult to settle their divorce and have now brought in the held of a private judge to speed things along.

Assistance: The couple, who have seven-year-old son Bear together, appointed a private judge to help them resolve the matter as they had "all issues in dispute"

In the paperwork filed by Alicia - who was separated from Chris two years before filing for divorce - she has confirmed that they will be splitting the cost of hiring the private judge.

Alicia has been adamant in co-parenting her son Bear with Chris and previously admitted: 'Obviously, it's heartbreaking.'

'You don't ever think you'll be apart when you get married. All I can really say is that we'll co-parent Bear together, and this is completely a good thing for both of us.'

Exes: The pair, who filed for divorce in May after 13 years of marriage, have been unable to come to an agreement, and have decided to split the cost of hiring a private judge

This comes after Alicia revealed she is considering asking her ex Christopher to impregnate her again.

But the actress told Working Mother that despite not being in a relationship, she would not rule out asking Bear's dad for an assist.

'I’ve always wanted another kid. But I also wanted to space them out because I love being with Bear,' she said. 'They’re too delicious to have another one come along.

Priority: Alicia has been adamant in co-parenting her son Bear with Chris and previously admitted: 'Obviously, it's heartbreaking'

'When Bear was 3-and-a-half, when I stopped breastfeeding, I started to feel like I was ready to have another baby. But it wasn’t the right time in my life, so I waited.

She added: 'I have always dreamed of having a little girl, but of course I want another little Bear too. So whatever happens, if it happens, is good by me.

'I’m not in a relationship, but there are other ways to make babies.'

The Clueless star admitted she has begun dating again, but that she has kept that information from her son.

'He doesn’t have any idea that I’ve ever been on a date,' she revealed.

'Always wanted a girl': This comes after Alicia revealed she is considering asking her ex Christopher to impregnate her again

'I have talked to him about how one day Mommy and Daddy might want to find another person to be with. That was hard. We had a really deep conversation about it, where I was preparing him in case I did find a boyfriend.

'But I just wanted to check in on him to see how he was doing. I would say, "Mommy and Daddy like to live separately".'

Alicia also revealed she still sleeps in the same bed as her seven-year-old every night.

'I mean, I have to put the pillows between us,' she added. 'And I sometimes used to kick him to the mattress we kept on the floor.'

====== 311 ========

CARA DELEVINGNE IS CASUALLY CHIC AS SHE PARTIES WITH LADY MARY CHARTERIS AT DYNAMO'S MAGIC SHOW

She first found fame as a high-profile model and has become known for her eccentric sense of style.

But keeping things low-key as she headed out on Wednesday evening, Cara Delevingne made a casually chic appearance at The Mandrake Hotel as she attended Dynamo's speakeasy magic show titled The Abandoned Room.

The catwalk star turned actress, 26, joined a host of stars at the event including the likes of Lady Mary Charteris and Suki Waterhouse.

Stepping out: Cara Delevingne made a casually chic appearance alongside Lady Mary Charteris at Dynamo's speakeasy magic show titled The Abandoned Room on Wednesday

Cara teased a look at her model frame as she paired together a ribbed black vest top, that flashed a hint of stomach, with dark jeans.

The beauty added a studded belt around the waistband of her jeans and threw a teal colour block shirt, which she left open, atop her ensemble.

Cara edged up her outfit with a pair of leather biker boots and wore her cropped blonde locks in a roughed-up style.

Choosing to accentuate her natural features, including her striking brows, the Paper Towns star opted to go make-up free for the bash.

High spirits: The model, 26, was sen posing with the man himself following the intimate magic show held at a speakeasy in The Mandrake Hotel

Casually chic: Cara teased a look at her model frame as she paired together a ribbed black vest top, that flashed a hint of stomach, with dark jeans

Cara appeared to be flying solo at the event and without rumoured 'girlfriend' Ashley Benson. She and the Pretty Little Liars star have been romantically linked for months, but despite the swirling speculation they are dating, neither have confirmed the claims.

When asked about their relationship recently by PEOPLE, Ashley wouldn't confirm or deny the romance.

'I think it's the best way in any relationship,' she said. 'I've always been very private about them, and I think it's just better.'

Stylish: The beauty added a studded belt around the waistband of her jeans and threw a teal colour block shirt, which she left open, atop her ensemble

Rubbing shoulders: She and Lady Mary were seen catching up with magician Dynamo

Cara has previously dated the likes of model and actress Paris Jackson, 20, singer St Vincent, 35, and Fast And Furious star Michelle Rodriguez, 40.

She was seen partying alongside Lady Mary Charteris, 31, at Dynamo's magic show in the capital, with the socialite making sure to catch the eye as she donned a bold printed tee with a bust motif.

Lady Mary tucked her head-turning tee into a dark pair of jeans, that came complete with frayed edges, and added a Gucci belt.

She sported a pair of blue platform boots, with white stars printed across them, and left her pink-hued tresses down to fall past her shoulders in drawn out curls, while favouring a glamorous make-up look.

Beauty: Cara chose to flaunt her natural model looks as she opted to go make-up free

Stand-out: She was spotted partying with Lady Mary Charteris, 31 - who made sure to catch the eye in a bold printed tee with a bust motif

Chic: Lady Mary tucked her head-turning tee into a dark pair of jeans, that came complete with frayed edges, and added a Gucci belt

Stealing the show: All eyes were on Lady Mary backstage thanks to her playful outfit as she posed with Cara and Dynamo (L), before joining Jaime Winstone (R)

Her appearance at Dynamo's latest showcase comes after she seemed to prove there is no rift between herself and Victoria Beckham, despite reports, as she attended the designer's London Fashion Week party in September.

It had been claimed last year that Victoria 'frowned upon' her husband David Beckham's 'very worrying' friendship with Lady Mary.

David and Lady Mary met at Glastonbury last summer, with The Sun reporting that they then began enjoying 'late night parties' after they were introduced to each other by his best friend, Dave Gardner.

A source said: 'They were introduced by Dave, and Victoria is very worried that she [Lady Mary] is not the best influence on David. They met at Glastonbury but Victoria is not fond of her.’

Sister act! Suki Waterhouse was also in attendance and stepped out in a quirky outfit choice - she was joined by her sibling Maddi

The newspaper added that when another man tried to talk to Lady Mary during a recent party at the trendy Chiltern Firehouse restaurant in London, David told him: 'She's with me.' The newspaper said it was clear 'they were pals’.

The footballer's publicist Simon Oliveira denied the report, describing it as 'completely untrue and absolute nonsense’.

Another source close to the couple said that there wasn't any animosity with Victoria because she was 'unaware that there was a wider friendship' between her husband and Lady Mary.

Lady Mary is the daughter of an eccentric Scottish aristocrat, the 13th Earl of Wemyss and 9th Earl of March, she was raised on an estate in Gloucestershire featured in the Harry Potter films and is married to rocker Robbie Furze in 2012.

Covering up: Suki paired together velour trousers with a pink jumper that boasted a fur trim around the hood and sleeves

Meanwhile, Suki Waterhouse was also in attendance and stepped out in a quirky outfit choice that paired together velour trousers with a pink jumper that boasted a fur trim around the hood and sleeves.

She donned a navy beanie hat and appeared in high spirits alongside her sister, fellow model Maddi Waterhouse.

They enjoyed a viewing of Dynamo's new intimate magic show that is believed to 'push the boundaries of close-up magic' and shuns a large audience by taking place in a purposely built 90-seat theatre hidden underneath the halls of The Mandrake Hotel.

Dynamo shot to fame on his series Dynamo: Magician Impossible that ran for four series.

====== 312 ========

TORI SPELLING, 45, SHOCKS FANS BY PROVING ALL IS WELL BETWEEN HUSBAND DEAN MCDERMOTT AND JACK

Tori Spelling and Dean McDermott have five children together.

But before he met the Beverly Hills, 90210 star, McDermott had a son Jack - now 20-years-old - with his first wife Mary Jo Eustace, 56.

And though father and son had a falling out in 2014, it appears all is good now as Spelling shared an image of Jack with several of his half siblings on Tuesday.

All together now: Dean McDermott's son Jack was seen with four of the kids his father had with Tori Spelling; the post was shared by Tori on Tuesday

Happy mama: 'I love it when a plan comes together... kids loved that their big bro @thejackmonty picked them up from school today to start their long TG holiday weekend,' wrote Tori in the caption

'I love it when a plan comes together... kids loved that their big bro @thejackmonty picked them up from school today to start their long TG holiday weekend,' wrote Tori in the caption.

'Only McDermott missing from pic is Liam ( he had plans ha ha),' she added.

Actually, there was another McDermott missing: her husband Dean, 52.

Tori and Dean have a total of five children together, Liam, 11, Stella, 10, Hattie, six, Finn, six, and baby son Beau, who is 19 months old.

In 2014, Jack 'begged' for Dean and Tori's reality TV show True Tori to be canceled because he thought it was doing the family harm.

All together: Tori and Dean have a total of five children together, Liam, 11, Stella, 10, Hattie, six, Finn, six, and baby son Beau, who is 19 months old. Seen in October

'Having to hear about my family fall apart each week is torture. For the kids, for me, for this family, end the chaos,' Jack tweeted with the hashtag #EndTrueTori.

Another tweet followed: 'Can’t watch this anymore. Just cancel True Tori already…the bulls*** needs to stop!'

Jack appeared in several episodes of True Tori, like during his 16th birthday party.

Adding to the tension, Mary Jo then accused Dean of not making his child support payments and said that Jack had to take care of himself.

Dean and Mary Jo were seen in court together and she shared that he had not followed up on his promise to give her money. It is not known if the issue has been cleared up.

Spelling and her spouse seem to be having persistent financial issues even though her mother Candy Spelling reportedly pays for big expenses such as their rent and the children's school.

The way they were: Dean and Mary Jo with Jack when he was a baby nearly 20 years ago

This comes after the blonde beauty was evacuated from her home because of the California Woolsey Fires. She sought refuge at 90210 co-star Jennie Garth's house.

The daughter of Aaron Spelling took to Instagram to update her fans on her family's well-being.

In her Instagram post, Tori said that she, husband McDermott and their five children were evacuated.

The Mistle-Tones star was 'amazed' at kindness shown to her by others who offered to help out during her time of need.

'My eyes swell with happy tears when I reflect on how many friends immediately reached out and offered their homes to us,' she noted.

'No small offer when you are talking about a family of seven. Some I don’t even know that well but as part of our school community they stepped up. Thank you all!'

It was a struggle: Eustace and Jack at his birthday dinner in Los Angeles in 2008

Tori ultimately stayed with best pal Jennie, 46, whom she's known since the late '80s. The duo co-stared on the hit TV series, 90210.

'And, thank you most of all to my childhood, adulthood, everything in between, and lifelong friend @jenniegarth for giving our ginormous family flesh and fur your entire house to stay at in a moments notice.'

I’m not good at asking for what I need. But only my best friend would know that and jump in and just make it happen!' she said.

The star also assured her followers that her family's animals were safe.

'PS- thx to our friends for housing our chickens and our other friends for housing our dragons and guinea piggy.'

====== 313 ========

TERESA GIUDICE AND MELISSA GORGA'S FAMILY FEUD RAGES ON NEW RHONJ AS LADIES HEAD TO OKLAHOMA

The tension between Teresa Giudice and her sister-in-law Melissa Gorga simmered to the boil on The Real Housewives Of New Jersey this Wednesday.

Giacinto Gorga, the father of Teresa and of Melissa's husband Joe Gorga, had been complaining that his son does not make enough time for him.

When the Real Housewives took a trip to Oklahoma on this week's episode, Teresa, 46, made waves by laying the blame at Melissa's feet - in front of the other women.

Letting her have it: The tension between Teresa Giudice (pictured) and her sister-in-law Melissa Gorga simmered to the boil on The Real Housewives Of New Jersey this Wednesday

Margaret Josephs was going to Oklahoma in aid of her pediatric hospital gown line, and she brought her fellow Housewives with her to stay on a cattle farm.

Dolores Catania quipped in one of her confessionals that people in Oklahoma might assume that she and her friends were connected to the mafia.

Before leaving New Jersey, Teresa called her brother to ensure that during her trip, he would spend time with their father - who lives in Teresa's home.

Trouble: Giacinto Gorga, the father of Teresa and of Melissa's husband Joe Gorga (pictured), had been complaining that his son does not make enough time for him

Knives out: When the Real Housewives took a trip to Oklahoma on this week's episode, Teresa, 46, made waves by laying the blame at Melissa's (pictured) feet - in front of the other women

On the move: Margaret Josephs was going to Oklahoma in aid of her pediatric hospital gown line, and she brought her fellow Housewives with her to stay on a cattle farm

Adjusting: The 'Jersey girls' were apparently quite aware of the cultural difference between their home state and the one they were traveling to

Ready for anything: Dolores Catania quipped in one of her confessionals that people in Oklahoma might assume that she and her friends were connected to the mafia

Focal point: Before leaving New Jersey, Teresa called her brother to ensure that during her trip, he would spend time with their father - who lives in Teresa's home

Joe used his typical explanation that his busy work life made it 'harder than ever' for him to be with Giacinto, insisting that 'my business takes all my friggin' time.'

In her confessional, Teresa made it clear that she was 'so over' this type of dodge, pointing out that 'The whole world has to work.'

Joe Gorga told his wife before she left: 'So when you go to Oklahoma, make sure you tell my sister she's getting out of control,' but Melissa refused to involve herself.

She worried that if she did, Teresa would blame the whole situation on her - flashbacks then showed a years-old fight between Teresa and Joe that involved Teresa implicating Melissa in the tension between the siblings.

Stress: Joe used his typical explanation that his busy work life made it 'harder than ever' for him to be with Giacinto, insisting that 'my business takes all my friggin' time'

Hands off: Joe Gorga told his wife before she left: 'So when you go to Oklahoma, make sure you tell my sister she's getting out of control,' but Melissa refused to involve herself

Travel: In the Sooner State, the Housewives all got into the van that would take them to the cattle ranch of Margaret's pal, and Teresa started to lightheartedly complain about Oklahoma

Not amused: Melissa said in a confessional that while the other women might consider Teresa's remarks to be all in fun, she 'can smell her passive-aggressiveness from miles away'

After arriving in the Sooner State, the Housewives all got into the van that would take them to the cattle ranch of Margaret's pal, and Teresa started to lightheartedly complain about Oklahoma.

Melissa said in a confessional that while the other women might consider Teresa's remarks to be all in fun, she 'can smell her passive-aggressiveness from miles away.'

Not mincing words, Melissa said of her sister-in-law: 'She's p***ed at her brother, and she's ready to take it out on me, and I am not taking the bait.'

The women cooed over the sprawling house they would be staying in at the cattle ranch, where their hostess informed them the cattle were for beef.

What digs: The women cooed over the sprawling house they would be staying in at the cattle ranch, where their hostess informed them the cattle were for beef

Quick wit: Teresa seemed relieved at not having to milk a cow, joking that the 'Last time I saw something white come out of that was' from her husband Joe Giudice

Teresa seemed relieved at not having to milk a cow, joking that the 'Last time I saw something white come out of that was' from her husband Joe Giudice - who was in prison on multiple counts of fraud.

While at the house, Margaret FaceTimed her husband Joe Benigno and mother Marge Sr., who had recently had plastic surgery.

Margaret saw her mother's face surrounded by bandages and wittily likened her Sister Bertrille, Sally Field's character on the sitcom The Flying Nun.

'So cute': While at the house, Margaret FaceTimed her husband Joe Benigno (pictured) and mother Marge Sr., who had recently had plastic surgery

Uncanny: Margaret saw her mother's face surrounded by bandages and wittily likened her Sister Bertrille, Sally Field's character on the sitcom The Flying Nun

At one point, Teresa and Dolores sat down at a one-on-one conversation about Melissa and Joe, where Teresa introduced another grievance into the mix.

On the recent one-year anniversary of the death of Teresa and Joe's mother, Joe and Melissa were away on vacation in the Bahamas for the weekend.

The ladies eventually sat down to a luxurious dinner, but Teresa, who was preparing her figure for a swimsuit contest, had brought her own healthier food.

Holiday snap: On the recent one-year anniversary of the death of Teresa and Joe's mother, Joe and Melissa were away on vacation in the Bahamas for the weekend

Spot the Chanel: When the ladies stepped out onto a veranda and marveled at the dazzling sunset, Jennifer Aydin, a new Housewife, compared it to the view from her home

Unimpressed: 'What's worse than a Debbie Downer is a one-upper,' said Margaret in a confessional, clearly mildly irritated by Jennifer's behavior

How to live: The ladies eventually sat down to a luxurious dinner, but Teresa, who was preparing her figure for a swimsuit contest, had brought her own healthier food

Vulnerable: New Housewife Jackie Goldschneider told the dinner table the story of her struggle with anorexia, which she developed in her 20s

Looking back: Her problem progressed to the point she would take her own food to restaurants and 'was weighing every single little thing that I would eat'

Throwback: Jackie had been so skinny at her wedding that her father informed her his friends had expressed concerns to him about her health

New Housewife Jackie Goldschneider told the dinner table the story of her struggle with anorexia, which she developed in her 20s.

Her problem progressed to the point she would take her own food to restaurants and 'was weighing every single little thing that I would eat.'

Jackie had been so skinny at her wedding that her father informed her his friends had expressed concerns to him about her health.

Realizing that she was at risk of passing on her own ailment to her children, she took steps to treat her anorexia - and her candor left Melissa very 'inspired.'

Table talk: Upon becoming a mother, she began weighing her children's food as well - which a nutritionist immediately told her to stop doing

Touching tale: Realizing that she was at risk of passing on her own ailment to her children, she took steps to treat her anorexia - and her candor left Melissa very 'inspired'

Flashback: At that same dinner, Melissa shared that she had recently visited Concetta, a medium her husband and sister-in-law had consulted to speak to their late mother

At that same dinner, Melissa shared that she had recently visited Concetta, a medium her husband and sister-in-law had consulted to speak to their late mother.

Melissa was 17 when she lost her own father to a car crash, and although as far as she knew she only had two sisters, Concetta told her that she in fact had three.

This prompted Melissa to recall that at her 'colorful' and 'promiscuous' father's funeral, she had seen a mystery woman weeping profusely and sitting alone.

Melissa shared: 'I don't wanna hurt my mom, but if I have a sister, I wanna know her,' and it looked like the whole table was very moved - except for Teresa.

'I wanna know her': Melissa was 17 when she lost her own father to a car crash, and although as far as she knew she only had two sisters, Concetta told her that she in fact had three

Unmoved: As seen in a confessional, Teresa was livid at Melissa tearing up over a sibling she does not know, while Giacinto, whom she does know, is not a 'priority' for her

Center of it all: Teresa theorized that Joe did indeed have time for Giacinto - but only when his wife was out of town, meaning that Melissa was keeping the father and son apart

As seen in a confessional, Teresa was livid at Melissa tearing up over a sibling she does not know, while Giacinto, whom she does know, is not a 'priority' for her.

The next morning, Teresa called back home and learned that Joe would be spending some quality time with his father the following night.

Teresa theorized that Joe did indeed have time for Giacinto - but only when his wife was out of town, meaning that Melissa was keeping the father and son apart.

J'accuse: At breakfast, Teresa confronted Melissa about this suspicion, while Melissa countered that Joe spends time with Giacinto 'all the time during the week'

In front of everyone: Dolores brings up the Bahamas trip to Melissa, who snaps: 'I think that's none of your business' - but Teresa seizes on the subject

Not letting it go: 'Like, out of all weekends you had to pick, you had to pick that weekend?' Teresa asks Melissa, who is incensed at the implication Joe did not care enough for his mother

At breakfast, Teresa confronted Melissa about this suspicion, while Melissa countered that Joe spends time with Giacinto 'all the time during the week.'

Dolores brings up the Bahamas trip to Melissa, who snaps: 'I think that's none of your business' - but Teresa seizes on the subject.

'Like, out of all weekends you had to pick, you had to pick that weekend?' Teresa asks Melissa, who is incensed at the implication Joe did not care enough for his mother.

Fighting back: Melissa says it's easier for Teresa because she doesn't have to 'cater' to the imprisoned Joe Giudice

Fireworks: While Melissa insists that Teresa talk to her brother about this problem, otherwise he is liable to 'explode,' Teresa counters that Melissa should exercise sway over her husband

Melissa says it's easier for Teresa because she doesn't have to 'cater' to the imprisoned Joe Giudice - an argument that Dolores points out is illogical, since it is highly unlikely that becoming a 'single mother' would leave Teresa more free time.

While Melissa insists that Teresa talk to her brother about this problem, otherwise he is liable to 'explode,' Teresa counters that it is Melissa who should exercise some sway over her husband, whom Melissa says she is unable to 'control.'

After Teresa left the room, the remaining women discussed the fight and Jackie took Melissa's side - while Margaret suggests that they get out for their planned activities.

Unfiltered: Melissa in a confessional once again threw Joe Giudice's legal problems into the mix, arguing that Teresa's influence over her own man was clearly ineffective

Post-game: After Teresa left the room, the remaining women discussed the fight and Jackie took Melissa's side - while Margaret suggests that they get out for their planned activities

Frame of mind: Teresa, Jen, Margaret and Dolores went fishing and the others went target-shooting - but Melissa was 'scared to touch a gun right now, 'cause I'm so frickin' aggravated'

Teresa, Jen, Margaret and Dolores went fishing and the others went target-shooting - but Melissa was 'scared to touch a gun right now, 'cause I'm so frickin' aggravated'.

Margaret took a walk on the ranch with Melissa, who laid her soul bare, complaining that 'no matter what I do, it's never good enough.'

Margaret counseled her to address this with Teresa herself, and upstairs in the ranch house before dinner, that is exactly what Melissa did.

Facing her: Margaret counseled her to address this with Teresa herself, and upstairs in the ranch house before dinner, that is exactly what Melissa did

Soul bare: Explaining she felt 'embarrassed' by by the breakfast fight in front of their friends, Melissa said that 'you tolerate me as opposed to, like, really, truly, like, accept me'

Explaining she felt 'embarrassed' by by the breakfast fight in front of their friends, Melissa said that 'you tolerate me as opposed to, like, really, truly, like, accept me.'

Teresa was completely unmoved in her confessional, saying that Melissa's feelings on this matter were irrelevant to the Giacinto situation.

They eventually shared a hug and decided to enjoy their trip, though it was clear from their confessionals that the tension was still lurking right below the surface.

====== 314 ========

MADISON BEER PROVES SHE'S IN EXCELLENT SHAPE IN BIKINI IN MIAMI

Madison Beer has a gifted voice, but on Tuesday the New York native proved she has an eye-popping figure as well.

The 19-year-old crooner, who was once a protege of Justin Bieber, showed off her curves while walking on the beach in Miami.

The brunette bombshell was likely celebrating the success of her latest music video for the single, Hurts Like Hell, featuring 26-year-old Offset who is married to Cardi B. The clip dropped on November 9.

Super siren: Madison Beer has a gifted voice, but on Tuesday the New York native proved she has an eye-popping figure as well as she took a dip in the ocean

Teenage dream: The 19-year-old crooner, who was once a protege of Justin Bieber, showed off her curves while walking on the beach in Miami

The YouTube sensation looked slender with toned arms and legs in her little two piece swimsuit.

The bikini was a fun one with pink leopard spots over a white background. There was a sweet tie in front and the briefs had slender straps on the sides.

The beauty added hoop earrings, a nameplate necklace and a two Cartier Love bangle bracelets as well as a sports watch.

Black sunglasses looked borrowed from the 1980s and fit her just right. She was seen getting out of the water as she slicked her drenched hair back.

Early days: Beer - who began posting videos on YouTube of her singing covers of popular songs in early 2012 which got Bieber to notice her - looked ready for her Sports Illustrated cover

Always so glam: The songbird appeared to have her eyebrows lined in and some soft pink lipstick on as she enjoyed the cool ocean water

Teen look: The YouTube sensation looked slender with toned arms and legs in her little two piece swimsuit. The bikini was a fun one with pink leopard spots over a white background

The songbird appeared to have her eyebrows lined in and some soft pink lipstick on as she enjoyed the cool ocean water.

Beer - who began posting videos on YouTube of her singing covers of popular songs in early 2012 which got Bieber to notice her - looked ready for her Sports Illustrated cover.

She was also seen tying her hair up as she headed back into the water.

No snow for her this Thanksgiving: Black sunglasses looked borrowed from the 1980s and fit her just right. She was seen getting out of the water as she slicked her drenched hair back

On Wednesday, the singer released the official music video for her revenge anthem. Beer, who is seen nude in several frames, plays a vengeful witch out to wreak havoc.

The video kicks off with Madison, who dons heavy black eyeliner, naked in a bathtub.

She lights candles with a wave of her hand as she turns her attention to an old TV screen, where a man and a woman are embroiled in a fight.

The man hits the woman and Beer grows angry, touching her cheek as if she was the one struck.

Music first: Beer recorded her first studio EP As She Pleases over a three-year period. It was released in February 2018

'My baby said he loved me. My baby said he need me,' she can be heard singing. 'But then my baby went bad. I guess he had a relapse. Had to sneak, cheat and bring me down.'

The next scene shows the abusive man strapped to a bed as Madison looms in the distance.

Wearing a white wedding veil, the New York native climbs on top of the man—wielding a knife. She suddenly disappears without a trace and the man is free from the wrist restraints.

'I hope it hurts like hell. You shoulda never let me go,' she sings. 'I know I’m messing up your mind. The devil got you good this time.'

The music video ends with Beer being captured by witch hunters and condemned to hell.

A kiss for this canine: Beer stopped to greet a fuzzy beige dog whose owner was a young man. She dated Jack Gilinsky from 2015 until 2016

Witching hour: On Wednesday, the singer released the official music video for her revenge anthem. Beer, who is seen nude in several frames, plays a vengeful witch out to wreak havoc. The video kicks off with Madison naked in a bathtub with several lit white candles all around her tub

The lyrics: 'My baby said he loved me. My baby said he need me,' she can be heard singing. 'But then my baby went bad. I guess he had a relapse. Had to sneak, cheat and bring me down'

So sexy: Madison used her long brown locks to cover up her breasts in the video

The group of torch and pitchfork-wielding commoners, led by the woman-beating man, attempt to burn her at the stake but she magically switches places with her enemy.

'Drop tears from my eyes. I can’t cry, I’m on fire,' Offset raps. 'Cheatin’ night N night. No more flights. You got caught in the hype. Ain’t take my advice. Got the steak, the fork, and the whole knife.'

As the man burns alive, Beer turns to camera, winks and walks away.

====== 315 ========

OCEAN'S EIGHT DIRECTOR GARY ROSS FILES FOR DIVORCE FROM LONGTIME WIFE ALLISON THOMAS

Veteran filmmaker Gary Ross has filed for divorce to end his decades-long marriage to producer Allison Thomas.

The Oscar-nominated director on Wednesday submit court papers to end their marriage, according to The Blast.

The pair are parents to twins Claudia and Jack, who are both adults. Thomas had collaborated with Ross on multiple projects.

Scroll below for video

Sad news: Veteran filmmaker Gary Ross has filed for divorce to end his decades-long marriage to producer Allison Thomas. They were snapped in LA in 2008

Ross has written and directed movies including Ocean's Eight, The Hunger Games, Pleasantville, and Seabiscuit, the latter of which got him a pair of Oscar nominations.

He also penned the screenplays for the iconic Tom Hanks film Big, and the Kevin Kline film Dave, with both garnering him Oscar nominations.

Thomas worked alongside Ross as a producer on three films: Pleasantville, Seabiscuit and The Tale of Despereaux.

Ross last year opened up to the cinema site Slashfilm about how Ocean's Eight was a passion project for him in uniting an all-star ensemble cast of actresses that included Rihanna, Anne Hathaway, Sandra Bullock, Cate Blanchett, Mindy Kaling, Helena Bonham Carter, Awkwafina and Sarah Paulson.

Out and about: The director was snapped on the red carpet in Las Vegas in 2016

Hollywood glamour: The two were spotted at the Oscars in February of 2004

'I thought, well, it’s weird but there’s just never been a female ensemble like this,' Ross said. 'There hasn’t. Not where there’s sort of these kicka** women going to do something like this. It just hasn’t existed.'

He said that the concept of a female ensemble cast for Ocean's Eight - which came on the heels of three previous Ocean's films that starred male ensemble casts - was something he 'originated and created, brought to the studio, and worked for five years to get made.'

He added, 'I wasn’t really a director for hire on this … it really was a personal movie in that respect, even though it’s derived from another franchise.'

Ross said that he knew the concept of film - a commercial hit in theaters, taking in more than $296 million worldwide off of a $70 million budget, according to Box Office Mojo - would strike a chord with female viewers, after seeing how they responded to Jennifer Lawrence's Katniss character in The Hunger Games.

'After Hunger Games, the thing that sort of stayed with me after I left the franchise, that resonated me the most, was how girls were taken with and moved by the fact that there was a protagonist in a movie that they could relate to that they hadn’t seen in a movie like that before,' he said. 'And that that was so resonant to them and that it made a difference to them.'

====== 316 ========

TARA REID SHOWCASES HER CHIC SENSE OF STYLE IN VELVET LEGGINGS AND A FLUFFY SHOULDER WRAP

It's been a difficult time for the actress, who lost both of her parents within the last two years.

But Tara Reid put on a warm-hearted display, flashing a self-effacing smile as she arrived at Italian restaurant Madeo in Beverley Hills, Los Angeles on Wednesday.

The American Pie star, 43, looked chic in a pair of figure-hugging black velvet leggings, which clung to her lithe legs.

Low-key: Tara Reid, 43, put on a warm-hearted display, flashing a self-effacing smile as she arrived at Italian restaurant Madeo in Beverley Hills, Los Angeles on Wednesday

Tara teamed her trousers with a three-quarter-length sleeved top, and added height to her slim frame with a pair of sky-high black stiletto ankle boots.

The Sharknado actress ensured she kept warm with a luxe fluffy navy blue wrap draped around her shoulders.

Tara carried her belongings in a structured Gucci canvas bag with a leather top and gold-tone key lock closure.

The star scraped her blonde locks up into a simple bun atop her head, and drew attention to her features with a heavy slick of eyeliner and a vibrant pink lip.

Stylish: The American Pie star, 43, looked chic in a pair of figure-hugging black velvet leggings, which clung to her lithe legs

Elegant: Tara teamed her trousers with a three-quarter-length sleeved top, and added height to her slim frame with a pair of sky-high black stiletto boots

The outing comes a month after Tara shared the devastating news that her mother Donna Reid had passed away.

She took to Instagram to reveal her mother's passing with a throwback photo of her parents on their wedding day.

'Today has been one of the most heartbreaking days of my life,' Tara began the caption.

'My mother Donna Reid just passed away. My heart breaks - who am I gonna call everyday, what do I do?'

Wrapped up: The Sharknado actress ensured she kept warm with a luxe fluffy navy blue wrap draped around her shoulders

Designer duds: Tara carried her belongings in a structured Gucci canvas bag with a leather top and gold-tone key lock closure

The unsettling news came just two years after Tara had lost her father Thomas Reid, making the demise of yet another parent all the more difficult.

The blonde beauty continued to stress that though she's heartbroken by the passing of her mother, she assures herself that Donna can finally be reunited with the socialite's father.

'2 yrs ago I lost my father and I never felt such a pain.'

'now I just lost my mom. But the one thing I know is they are together again. Mom & Dad, I love you! RIP, your baby girl Tara.'

====== 317 ========

TAYLOR LAUTNER HILARIOUSLY REVEALS KENDALL JENNER WAS JACOB BLACK'S HAIR INSPIRATION

It's been a decade since Taylor Lautner played the werewolf with long flowing hair, Jacob Black, on the hit fantasy film Twilight.

And now the actor is celebrating the film's 10 year anniversary by hilariously revealing the inspiration behind his character's long mane.

The actor, 26, announced Kendall Jenner hair inspiration for his character as he shared a silly side by side photo of himself as Jacob alongside the model.

'Thank you Kendall': Taylor Lautner hilariously revealed Kendall Jenner was the hair inspiration for his Twilight character, Jacob Black, on Wednesday

'It's been 10 years exactly since twilight was released in theaters,' he wrote in the caption.

'I thought I should take this moment to thank every single fan who has supported the franchise over the last decade but also to thank Kendall Jenner for being my hair inspo back in 07'. Thank you fans. And thank you Kendall. #headandshoulders.'

In the photo, Kendall was the 'Expectation of hair behind ears', while Taylor was the 'reality.'

Taylor also tagged the photo's location as Forks, Washington, the city where Twilight is set.

Picture perfect: The photo Taylor posted of Kendall was actually taken in 2014, six years after the release of the original Twilight film

Big role: It's been a decade since Lautner played the werewolf with long flowing hair, Jacob Black, on the hit fantasy film Twilight

Love triangle: Taylor played werewolf and Bella Swan's on-off love interest Jacob Black from 2008 to 2012

Location, location: Taylor also tagged the photo's location as Forks, Washington, the city where Twilight is set

The photo Taylor posted of Kendall was actually taken in 2014, six years after the release of the original Twilight film.

Taylor played werewolf and Bella Swan's on-off love interest Jacob Black from 2008 to 2012.

Nowadays he stars in the comedy series Cuckoo opposite Greg Davies and Helen Baxendale.

Taylor also recently confirmed he's dating Taylor Dome, after posting photos of their couples costume on Halloween last month.

====== 318 ========

KELLY DODD SAYS SHE WON'T RETURN TO RHOC AFTER VICKI GUNVALSON ACCUSED HER OF DOING COCAINE

Just after the Season 13 finale of Real Housewives of Orange County on Monday, one of the Housewives, Kelly Dodd, claims she might not be back.

During a sneak peek at the reunion show, Vicki Gunvalson accused Dodd of doing cocaine, with Dodd revealing on Instagram, that she might not return if Gunvalson comes back.

'How could I film with that liar this is character assassination I have a daughter with kids at school and I don’t do cocaine!!,' Dodd, 43, said.

RHOC shakeup: Kelly Dodd revealed on Instagram she might not return for Season 14 of Real Housewives of Orange County after Vicky Gunvalson accused her of doing cocaine

She went on to call out RHOC network Bravo and production company Revolution Media, asking them to do something about Gunvalson's allegations.

'If @bravotvand @evolutionusa let her get away with this then I’m out!!' Dodd said. 'I will not return next season!! I have a daughter and a brand that b***h! How could I film with her?'

'If they don’t do something to Vicki how could I go back.. I’m not going sell my soul for this ratchet liar ! How could I my poor daughter!'

Dodd might be out: Dodd responded to a fan on Instagram by saying 'If they don’t do something to Vicki how could I go back.. I’m not going sell my soul for this ratchet liar ! How could I my poor daughter!'

Neither Bravo, Evolution or Gunvalson herself have responded yet, but when fans begged her to stay, she explained even further.

'No I can’t go back if that liar can just say s**t without consequences the money isn’t worth it to me,' she said.

'My daughter means more to me than this shoe and she is trying to ruin my reputation.. just out of principle I won’t go back ! They can pick the OG I’m out!!”

Disgruntled Dodd: Neither Bravo, Evolution or Gunvalson herself have responded quite yet, but when fans begged her to stay, she explained even further

The beef between Vicki Gunvalson and Kelly Dodd started in a new trailer for the Real Housewives Of Orange County's season 13 reunion.

As an argument between the pair escalated, each lady lobbed insults at the other, with Kelly telling Vicki: 'Turn around a look at yourself in the mirror.'

Gunvalson, 56, responded with a bold accusation, seemingly out of nowhere saying: 'I don't do cocaine.'

Face off: Kelly Dodd and Vicki Gunvalson got into a showdown during the new trailer for Sunday's Real Housewives Of Orange County reunion special

Shocked by Vicki's accusation, Kelly, 43, responded incredulously.

'I don't do cocaine,' she said with wide eyes.

The gossip clearly got to Kelly, who snapped at the cameras while backstage in a later clip.

'Can you guys just give me a f***ing minute?' Kelly yelled.

Vicki and Kelly's drama was far from the only fighting in the two-and-a-half minute teaser.

Claws out! The gossip clearly got to Kelly, who snaps at the cameras while backstage in a later clip

Tempers flare! An angry Kelly can be seen besides Tamra Judge, right

When asked by another fan why she even went to the reunion in the first place, Dodd responded to that as well.

'Because she apologized and she wanted to talk to me so I thought I would hear what she would say,' Dodd said.

'I didn’t realize what kind of negative press this was going to get and my daughter is so upset!! I didn’t realize it was going to be this bad!'

Inside voices! But as she sat down with Andy and her castmates, Emily's temper flared and she menacingly yelled that it's 'against the law to threaten somebody'

Be nice! As Emily Simpson, above with Gina Kirschenheiter, walked into the taping she said her only goal was 'not [to] threaten to kill anyone'

Denial: 'I'm not selfish, I'm not crazy, I'm not an alcoholic,' Shannon Beador cried in the next clip, seeming to suggest she was the topic of discussion

Andy voiced his own concerns as the clip reached its climax.

'Are you seriously concerned that she has a drinking problem? Any of you?' Andy asked the group, without it being clear who he was speaking about.

'I'm not selfish, I'm not crazy, I'm not an alcoholic,' Shannon Beador cried in the next clip, seeming to suggest she was the topic of discussion.

Part one of RHOC's reunion airs Sunday November 25 on Bravo.

====== 319 ========

BRODY JENNER AND WIFE KAITLYNN CUDDLE UP DURING THEIR WILDFIRE RELIEF BENEFIT IN SANTA MONICA

They're Malibu residents.

And Brody Jenner and wife Kaitlynn Jenner gave back to their community on Wednesday night, with the couple hosting a benefit for Mailbu wildfire relief efforts at Shorebar in Santa Monica.

The 35-year-old reality TV star and the 30-year-old Instagram influencer cuddled up during the event, which raised over $40,000 for those affected by the fires.

Giving back: Brody Jenner, 35, and wife Kaitlyn, 30, hosted A Night Benefitting Malibu Wildfire Relief Efforts on Wednesday, presented by One Love Malibu & SHOREbar in Santa Monica

The former star of The Hills went casual for the night of charity, wearing jeans with a white T-shirt and a bomber-style jacket.

The son of Caitlyn Jenner covered his dark tresses with a baseball cap.

Meanwhile his new bride looked radiant in check pants and a black jacket.

Taking it easy: The former star of The Hills went casual for the night of charity, wearing jeans with a white T-shirt and a bomber-style jacket

Newlyweds: Broday and Kaitlynn were married in a laving island wedding earlier this year

Caitlyn Jenner pulled out of her son's wedding just weeks before she was due to attend - ditching the nuptials to take up a last-minute 'work' offer.

The 68-year-old had known about the wedding date for over a year and was initially expected to join Brody and Kaitlynn Carter's family on the island of Nihi Sumba, just off the coast of Indonesia.

But instead she flew to Austria to attend the Life Ball with her pal Sophia Hutchins, 21, on June 2, leaving her 34-year-old son heartbroken.

Her boys: Caitlyn Jenner [center] pulled out of her son's wedding just weeks before she was due to attend - ditching the nuptials to take up a last-minute 'work' offer. Seen here with sons Brandon [L] and Brody in 2016

'It was a big disappointment,' Brody admits in an interview with People magazine.

'Especially considering that she had known about the wedding for a year.'

But he admits he 'wasn't surprised' by the move, noting it was true to form.

He said: 'I'm pretty used to her doing that sort of thing.'

====== 320 ========

TIDELANDS LOVE INTEREST OF ELSA PATAKY, 42, REVEALED AS MELBOURNE ACTOR AARON JAKUBENKO, 29

Australia's first ever original Netflix series Tidelands is set to drop next month.

And although all eyes will be on Elsa Pataky, 42, as she takes the lead, she'll be sharing the spotlight with her on-screen love interest Aaron Jakubenko, 29.

The first preview for the show reveals the pair getting very intimate, and the Melbourne-born actor is just as hunky as Elsa's real-life husband Chris Hemsworth.

Scroll down for video

Look away, Chris Hemsworth: Tidelands' love interest of Elsa Pataky, 42, revealed as Melbourne actor Aaron Jakubenko, 29... and he's just as hunky as Thor!

Many TV buffs will already know Aaron from The Shannara Chronicles, or from brief appearances in Neighbours from 2009 to 2013.

But it seems the world is about to see a whole new side to the screen talent.

Written and created by Stephen M. Irwin, Tidelands centres around the mysterious appearance of a body that washes ashore in the small fishing village of Orphelin Bay.

In the trailer, Elsa sets pulses racing during an intimate scene with her Aussie co-star Aaron, who plays the character of Augie Mcteer.

Hello! Although all eyes will be on Elsa Pataky as she takes the lead in the Netflix Australian series, she'll be sharing the spotlight with Melbourne born Aaron Jakubenko (pictured)

Raunchy: The first preview for the show reveals the pair getting very intimate, and the Melbourne born actor is just as hunky as Elsa's real-life husband Chris Hemsworth

Wearing a plunging nude dress, she straddles Aaron on the floor while dragging her fingers slowly down his chest.

Spanish-born Elsa plays A, a 'darkly enigmatic' leader of a group of siren-human hybrids.

In another scene, she appears semi-nude and responds to the question, 'Are you cursed by God?' with: 'Do I look cursed to you?'

Elsa's character appears willing to do whatever it takes to protect her people, as the trailer shows her standing over Aaron's character, who she has disarmed.

Strong female lead: Elsa's character appears willing to do whatever it takes to protect her people, as the trailer shows her standing over Aaron's character, who she has disarmed

Who's strongest? Not only are they both fine Australian born actors, it appears they're both fitness fanatics, with Aaron (right) sharing many sweaty gym snaps like Chris (left)

It seems like Aaron shares many similarities to Elsa's husband Chris.

Not only are they both fine Australian born actors, it appears they're both fitness fanatics, with Aaron previously sharing many sweaty gym snaps.

Tidelands will premiere on Netflix on December 14th, 2018.

Already an action hero! Many TV buffs will already know Aaron from The Shannara Chronicles

====== 321 ========

CATE BLANCHETT IS TO RETURN TO THE STAGE IN LONDON AND TICKETS WILL BE AVAILABLE BY BALLOT ONLY

A-list actor Cate Blanchett will take to the stage in London in January, but tickets will be available via ballot only, given anticipation of high demand.

As reported by the Independent, Cate, 49, will star alongside Game Of Thrones' Stephen Dillane in When We Have Sufficiently Tortured Each Other.

According to the National Theatre, the play 'explores the messy, often violent nature of desire and the fluid, complicated roles that men and women play'.

In demand! Cate Blanchett (pictured) is set to star in a play in London in January and tickets will be available by ballot only

The play is based on Samuel Richardson's 1740 novel, Pamela, during which 'six characters act out a dangerous game of sexual domination and resistance'.

The production, written by Martin Crimp, will run for six weeks at the Dorfman Theatre from January 16 to March 2 next year.

The ticket ballot opens at midday on Thursday 22 November and runs until midday on Thursday November 29, and ticket prices will be between AU$18 to AU$102 (between £10 to £58).

Treading the boards! As reported by the Independent on Wednesday, Cate, 49, will star alongside Game Of Thrones' Stephen Dillane in When We Have Sufficiently Tortured Each Other, produced by the National Theatre in London

It has been a busy creative period for Cate, with the two-time Oscar winner recently signing on to star in the new FX limited series Mrs America.

Created and written by Mad Men co-producer Dahvi Waller, the nine-episode series will feature Cate as conservative activist Phyllis Schlafly, who led the fight against the movement to ratify the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA).

The ERA is a proposed amendment to the US Constitution stating that equal rights may not be denied on the basis of one's sex.

Exciting new role: According to the National Theatre, the play 'explores the messy, often violent nature of desire and the fluid, complicated roles that men and women play'

The amendment was passed by the US Congress in 1972 but failed to win the backing of enough states.

'Through the eyes of the women of that era ... the series explores how one of the toughest battlegrounds in the culture wars of the '70s helped give rise to the Moral Majority and forever shifted our political landscape,' FX said in a statement.

Mrs America, which will begin production next year, will mark the Australian actress' first role in a US television program.

Works in progress: It has been a busy creative period for Cate, with the two-time Oscar winner recently signing on to star in the new FX limited series Mrs America

'I feel privileged to have this opportunity to collaborate with Dahvi, Stacey (Sher) and Coco (Francini) under the robust and fearless FX umbrella,' Cate recently said in a statement.

'I am extremely excited about delving into the material as there couldn't be a more appropriate time to peel back the layers of this recent period of history, which couldn't be more relevant today.'

====== 322 ========

DIANE KRUGER POSTS LOVING TRIBUTE TO BOYFRIEND NORMAN REEDUS WEEKS AFTER GIVING BIRTH

Diane Kruger shared a touching note about her boyfriend Norman Reedus with her Instagram fans ahead of Thanksgiving.

The 42-year-old actress, welcomed her first child at the beginning of this month, revealed she was very grateful to have met the Walking Dead star, 49.

Thankful: Diane Kruger took to Instagram on Wednesday to share her affection for her boyfriend Norman Reedus, 49

'Favorite time of the year,' she began the caption.

'Happy Thanksgiving everyone. I have A LOT to be thankful for this year and I count my lucky stars to have met you @bigbaldhead and for sharing life’s many blessings with you.'

Kruger sported a black newsboy cap in the image, which she apparently took while in the driver's seat.

She kept warm in a fuzzy, light brown coat and had a white turtleneck on underneath.

Happy couple: In the post, the 42-year-old actress gushes about the 49-year-old actor and her love of Thanksgiving

At the beginning of November, the couple welcomed their first child.

People magazine confirmed the news, but the couple have not revealed whether the child was a boy or girl, or release the name or birth date.

The baby is the firstborn for Diane, but a second child for Reedus, who has 19-year-old son Mingus with ex-partner Helena Christensen.

Welcome: At the beginning of November, the couple welcomed their first child

Diane and Norman have been dating for just over two years, after meeting on the set of 2015's Sky.

The actress ended a decade long relationship with actor Joshua Jackson the same year.

Meanwhile, Diane and Norman recently moved into an impressive new home in Manhattan that set them back $11.7 million.

The four-story, 3,800 square foot brownstone, built in the 1800s, will give the duo plenty of room for their newborn.

====== 323 ========

JONATHAN RHYS MEYERS LOOKS HAPPY AS HE SERVES THANKSGIVING DINNER TO THE HOMELESS IN LOS ANGELES

He has been focusing on family life in recent months, following his vow to stay sober after a drunken row onboard a plane in July.

And cutting a happier and healthier figure, Jonathan Rhys Meyers was seen helping out with a homeless shelter in Skid Row, Los Angeles on Wednesday.

The actor, 41, supported the Los Angeles Mission as he stopped by to get involved and serve Thanksgiving dinner to the homeless ahead of the US holiday.

Smile: Jonathan Rhys Meyers cut a happy and healthy figure as he was seen helping out with a homeless shelter in Skid Row, Los Angeles on Wednesday

Happy to lend a land, Jonathan was seen donning a red apron as he stepped into the kitchen to serve up the food.

The Tudors star appeared to be enjoying his time with the charity as he flashed a smile alongside another volunteer while they took a selfie together.

Casually clad for his time with the shelter, Jonathan stepped out sporting jeans and a leather bike jacket that he paired with a plain white t-shirt underneath.

Seeming in great spirits, he was seen sharing a joke with the volunteers and keeping himself hydrated with a bottle of water as he worked.

Doing his bit: The actor, 41, supported the Los Angeles Mission as he stopped by to get involved and serve Thanksgiving dinner to the homeless ahead of the national holiday

Jonathan has vowed to stay sober after being detained following a drunken row with his wife onboard a plane in July.

In an interview on Larry King Now, the actor admitted drinking doesn't 'suit' him as he spoke about the incident, which led to him being detained at Los Angeles' LAX airport when his plane touched down on the runway.

The Dracula star, who was accompanied by his wife Mara and their one-year-old son on the flight from Peru, recalled: 'My wife and I had been travelling since 3 o'clock in the morning from Peru back to Los Angeles. And they gave away our tickets – it was just a problem with the airline.

'We had our baby, who was teething at the time, and it was all kind of frustrating. So we eventually got on the flight and my wife went to sleep and I very stupidly decided to order a drink.

Great spirits: The Tudors star appeared to be enjoying his time with the charity as he flashed a smile alongside another volunteer while they took a selfie together

Happy to lend a land: Jonathan was seen donning a red apron as he stepped into the kitchen to serve up the food

'When my wife found that I'd ordered a drink, she got very, very angry with me because I shouldn't drink. It doesn't suit me and I had been sober for a long time.'

Jonathan admitted he was 'upset' by his actions but had apologised to all involved in the incident and thanked police for being 'incredibly kind and understanding'.

He continued: 'And so I felt that mistake and I got upset and I took out an e-cigarette. And the airline staff told me that I wasn't allowed to smoke an e-cigarette so I put it away.

'Then I spoke to the Los Angeles police once we got there, who were incredibly kind. Incredibly understanding. I apologised for my behaviour, and that's the entire story.'

Jonathan's battle with alcoholism has been well documented over the years and he is believed to have had six stints in rehab - first checking into a rehab centre in Malibu in 2005 seeking treatment for alcohol abuse, before returning two years later in 2007.

Back on track: Jonathan has vowed to stay sober after being detained following a drunken row with his wife Mara (pictured above) onboard a plane in July

He and wife Mara share son Wolf Rhys Meyers, one. They welcomed their first child in December 2016, with Mara crediting Jonathan for 'being a natural' when it comes to fatherhood in the months that followed Wolf's birth.

Mara revealed in September last year that she had suffered a miscarriage with the couple's second child. At the time, she had shared a video of the moment she was told her baby had no heartbeat - telling fans that she and Jonathan wanted to be 'transparent' with their grief and help others in similar situations.

She revealed that the couple chose to bury their baby, Willow, under a tree at their home. Mara explained: 'I have been given peace and Baby Willow is now planted in the tree in front of our home that has weeping long branches and leaves so we can brush our faces in soft leaves in passing or we can see the baby dance with the wind in the branches as they sway.

'It is helping me process the situation … as Nature does.'

====== 324 ========

KATE BECKINSALE REVEALS GLUE-IN HAIR EXTENSIONS AFTER SWEATY PRE-THANKSGIVING WORKOUT

SAG Award nominee Kate Beckinsale emerged from her car still sweaty from her pre-Thanksgiving gym session in Los Angeles on Tuesday.

The 45-year-old mother-of-one - who relies on fitness trainer Gunnar Peterson - was sporting her signature perky ponytail with obvious glue-in hair extensions.

The London-born Brit hauled what appeared to be two pet carriers while clad in two tank tops beneath a knit cardigan, black leggings, and leather buckled boots.

All puffed out: SAG Award nominee Kate Beckinsale emerged from her car still sweaty from her pre-Thanksgiving gym session in Los Angeles on Tuesday

On Wednesday morning, Kate (born Kathrin) pampered herself with an 'amazing' Hollywood EGF facial by Georgia Louise, which she joked was made of 'liquified cloned foreskins.'

'After a long flight I do like to lie down and be covered in a mask of liquified cloned foreskins,' Beckinsale - who boasts 3.1M social media followers - captioned her selfie.

'Frankly who doesn't? Thank you @georgialouisesk for an amazing facial. I especially liked you reassuring me it would be "light on penis" as it was my first time.'

The wisecracking brunette has been hard at work filming her role as 'a Hollywood starlet' in Charlie Day's directorial debut, El Tonto.

Hollywood magic: The 45-year-old mother-of-one was sporting her signature perky ponytail with obvious glue-in hair extensions

Dog and cat owner: The London-born Brit hauled what appeared to be two pet carriers while clad in two tank tops beneath a knit cardigan, black leggings, and leather buckled boots

'Covered in a mask of liquified cloned foreskins': On Wednesday morning, Kate (born Kathrin) pampered herself with an 'amazing' Hollywood EGF facial by Georgia Louise

John Malkovich, Edie Falco, Ken Jeong, Ray Liotta, Jason Sudeikis, and Adrien Brody also star in the 2019 comedy about a mute simpleton who becomes a celebrity - according to Deadline.

Missing from the Northern Ireland abortion activist's side was her Nutcracker and the Four Realms beau Jack Whitehall, last seen enjoying Sunday roast at Brinkley's in London.

Kate and the 30-year-old British comedian were photographed making out with each other inside WeHo karaoke bar Blind Dragon back on November 2.

'No one would expect someone like Jack to bag one of Hollywood's hottest actresses. You couldn't get a more unlikely romance,' a source told The Sun.

BTS: Beckinsale has been hard at work filming her role as 'a Hollywood starlet' in Charlie Day's directorial debut, El Tonto (pictured November 6)

'There’s something very special happening in downtown LA!' John Malkovich, Edie Falco, Ken Jeong, Ray Liotta, Jason Sudeikis, and Adrien Brody also star in the 2019 comedy about a mute simpleton who becomes a celebrity (pictured November 14)

'They were like a pair of loved-up teenagers and weren't trying to hide their feelings. As the night progressed, he seemed to be growing in confidence and put his arm around her and gave her a hug.

'Then he decided to put his hand around the back of Kate's neck and pulled her across him, where they started to passionately kiss.'

It's unclear if Beckinsale's 19-year-old daughter Lily Mo, who attends NYU, will be spending Thanksgiving with her mother or father Michael Sheen.

'Gravy slut': Missing from the wisecracking brunette's side was her Nutcracker and the Four Realms beau Jack Whitehall, last seen enjoying Sunday roast at Brinkley's in London

====== 325 ========

KELLY RIPA REVEALS HER PDA WITH HUSBAND MARK CONSUELOS 'DISGUSTS' HER ELDEST CHILDREN

Kelly Ripa and her husband Mark Consuelos have made no secret of their love for one another during their more than 20 year marriage.

Just don't remind their children of that.

In a new interview with Us Weekly, Kelly revealed her eldest children Michael, 21, and Lola, 17, are not fans of their public displays affection, and are even 'disgusted' by simple kisses.

'They're disgusted!' In a new interview with Us Weekly, Kelly Ripa revealed her eldest children Michael, 21, and Lola, 17, are not fans of their public displays affection, and are even 'disgusted' by simple kisses

'So my daughter and my older son, if there's PDA, they are disgusted. And by PDA I don't mean… We're not making out, but if there's PDA, like, if Mark gives me a kiss, they're like, 'Ugh, ugh!''

'I mean, really, that's the reaction. They're disgusted!'

But unlike Lola and Michael, the couple's 15-year-old son Joaquin finds the affection endearing.

'He's like, "Aw, that's so nice." He's still sweet,' she explained. 'They haven't ruined him yet, the other two, but I know it's coming. I've got, like, a year left and then he'll be like, "Ew!"'

Family oriented: Kelly and Mark have sons Michael, Joaquin, and daughter Lola together (pictured 2015)

Head over heels: Ripa and Consuelos have been going strong for more than 20 years, after eloping in Las Vegas in 1996

'He's like, "Aw, that's so nice"': Ripa said her son Joaquin finds their PDA endearing (pictured 2015)

Kelly and Mark have been married since 1996, when they eloped in Las Vegas after meeting on an audition for All My Children.

The couple are now parents of three, and have gone on to enjoy great success in their professional lives.

Kelly has been hosting the hit daytime talk show, Live With Kelly And Ryan, since 2002.

Mark currently plays Hiram Lodge on the hit series Riverdale.

In the last few years, he's had roles on The Night Shift, Queen Of The South, and Pitch.

====== 326 ========

KYLIE JENNER TEASES MORE SHOTS FROM HER NEW CALENDAR ALONG WITH SNAPS MACY'S FALL DENIM COLLECTION

Just hours after teasing the first shots from her 2019 calendar, Kylie Jenner revealed even more new snaps.

The official Kylie Jenner Shop Instagram dropped three new photos on Wednesday afternoon, with Kylie herself taking to Twitter to debut a photo from her Kendall and Kylie Fall Denim collection from Macy's.

The calendar will be available for purchase on the 21-year-old entrepreneur's website, KylieJennerShop.com, at 9 AM on Black Friday (November 23).

More Kylie: Kylie Jenner dropped even more new photos from her upcoming calendar, before it's available on Black Friday

The first shot features Jenner in a one-piece long-sleeved white swimsuit with artful black stripes.

The second shot featured the Keeping Up With the Kardashians star pulling back her blonde hair while wearing a unique black mini-dress, with a number of patches cut out of the lower half of the long-sleeved dress.

The third shot showed Kylie wearing a light orange swimsuit with only the strap showing, as she covered herself with a towel, with another towel wrapped over her head.

Strike a pose: The second shot featured the Keeping Up With the Kardashians star pulling back her blonde hair while wearing a unique black mini-dress, with a number of patches cut out of the lower half of the long-sleeved dress

Jenner also took to Twitter, with another photo of the reality star modeling items from her denim collection.

She was wearing a light grey long-sleeved top under a grey denim jacket with a matching skirt and knee-high black boots.

In her original post from earlier today, she was wearing a tight gold Naked Wardrobe dress,stating, 'I’m so excited about my 2019 Calendar dropping 11/23 Black Friday.'

Effortless: Somehow the star even manages to make a couple of white towels look stylish

Queen of Calabasas: Kylie Jenner shared a sneak peek of her upcoming calendar with fans on Instagram on Wednesday

A touch of sparkle: The reality star wore a tight gold Naked Wardrobe frock with chunky jewels

Kylie recently took daughter Stormi on the road with Travis Scott, joining him on his Astroworld Tour.

During Saturday's concert in Houston, Texas, he gave a shout out to his 'beautiful' wife and daughter.

He told the crowd at his Astroworld Festival: 'My beautiful wife, she came out. My beautiful daughter, she's here too.'

Regal: The 21-year-old beauty mogul wore a huge crown on her head

The couple - who first started dating in April last year - aren't believed to be married yet, and the 26-year-old star later softened the word wife by adding a 'y'.

Travis is fulfilling his 'life goal' by having his girlfriend and daughter on tour with him.

He said recently: 'I keep Stormi on the road, she's got her own dressing room vibe, got her own bus vibe. [My] life goal [is having her be] a part of what I'm living.

'It's so hard, because I grew up in a different household where I never had a nanny or nothing like that - my parents were never on a tour - so being able to do that and figure it out at 26, it's like hard, but when you're going through it, it's like, 'Oh this is dope.''

====== 327 ========

LUCY HALE IS BIKER CHIC IN A LEATHER JACKET AS SHE GOES GROCERY SHOPPING AND BUYS BOUQUETS

Thanksgiving week has many Americans rushing to the supermarket.

And Pretty Little Liars alum Lucy Hale was spotted pushing a shopping cart full of groceries out and about in Los Angeles this Wednesday.

The 29-year-old sported cropped blonde hair and a stylish pair of sunglasses, teaming a black leather jacket with a matching half-turtleneck.

Legging it: Pretty Little Liars alum Lucy Hale was spotted pushing a shopping cart full of groceries out and about in Los Angeles this Wednesday

Stringing on a couple of necklaces, she played up her svelte legs in a fitted pair of jeans and slung a diamond-stitched purse from her right shoulder.

Her cart also had a couple of beautiful flower bouquets in it, and she strolled alongside another woman who also pushed a shopping cart.

The two ladies were seen unloading their cargo into the back of a large white automobile before heading away from the shop.

Coordinated: The 29-year-old sported cropped blonde hair and a stylish pair of sunglasses, teaming a black leather jacket with a matching half-turtleneck

Sleek and chic: Stringing on a couple of necklaces, she played up her svelte legs in a fitted pair of jeans and slung a diamond-stitched purse from her right shoulder

Side by side: Her cart also had a couple of beautiful flower bouquets in it, and she strolled alongside another woman who also pushed a shopping cart

From 2010 until last June, Lucy could be seen starring on the hit series Pretty Little Liars, which was adapted from Sara Shepard's young adult books.

The homeschooled actress' next effort was a CW dramedy called Life Sentence, in which her character Stella makes a series of ill-advised decisions on the grounds that she is dying of cancer and will never have to face the repercussions.

Fortunately for her, her cancer gets cured - but unfortunately for her, this means the results of her rashness are going to haunt her.

Ready to leave: The two ladies were seen unloading their cargo into the back of a large white automobile before heading away from the shop

Claim to fame: From 2010 until last June, Lucy could be seen starring on the hit series Pretty Little Liars, which was adapted from Sara Shepard's young adult books

The program bowed on the CW this March, but around the start of May, Lucy wrote on Instagram that it 'will not be coming back for a second season.'

Though the series got the axe, it was permitted to broadcast the rest of its current season, which broadcast its final episode in June.

Lucy also starred with Awkwafina, Alexandra Shipp and Kathryn Prescott in a Netflix high school movie called Dude, which was released in April.

Close, but no cigar: The homeschooled actress' next effort was a CW dramedy called Life Sentence, which ran for one season this year and was canceled

====== 328 ========

JEFF GOLDBLUM HITS NO. 1 ON BILLBOARD'S JAZZ CHARTS WITH DEBUT ALBUM THE CAPITOL STUDIOS SESSIONS

He's been in cinematic classics, big budget blockbusters and a viral sensation on social media - now, Jeff Goldblum can add the title of top-selling jazz man to his resume.

Jeff Goldblum's first jazz album, The Capitol Studios Sessions, has grabbed the top title on two Billboard charts in the genre: Jazz Albums and Traditional Jazz Albums, and the fourth spot on the Heatseekers Albums chart.

The album, a collaboration with the Mildred Snitzer Orchestra, sold about 3,000 copies, Nielsen Music reported.

A reason to smile: Jeff Goldblum's first jazz album, The Capitol Studios Sessions, grabbed the top title on two Billboard charts in the genre: Jazz Albums and Traditional Jazz Albums. The singer, 66, was seen appearing on The Jonathan Ross Show in London last week

The 66-year-old star had a number of notable names contribute on the recording, including comic Sarah Silverman, singers Imelda May and Haley Reinhart; and trumpeter Till Brönner.

Goldblum, who's appeared in films such as The Big Chill, Jurassic Park and Independence Day, has been honing his craft as a jazz musician for decades with a regular outing at the Rockwell Table and Stage, a Los Angeles venue.

The father-of-two - to sons Charlie, three, and River, one, with wife Emilie Livingston - told Billboard in September the recording would be a throwback to 'when jazz was fun, social, sexy music, instead of something a little more esoteric.'

After Goldblum was inked to the Decca label (a subsidiary of Universal) this past May, the label's director of A&R, Tom Lewis, noted the entertainer's enduring popularity, stacking it up to his musical talents.

Jazzing it up: Goldblum took to the stage on Wednesday in Berlin, Germany

Piano man: The actor-musician was snapped last week in Paris performing

'As far as I can tell, everyone loves Jeff Goldblum,' Lewis said in a statement. 'He's a fantastic jazz pianist, a great band leader and just about the loveliest man in the world. His love of jazz is infectious and whenever he plays he makes you feel very happy.

'If we can take Jeff's music into people's homes, then we will be helping, in our own small way, to make the world a happier place.'

The multi-talented entertainer wraps up a successful year in which he appeared in a number of films, including Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom, Hotel Artemis and The Mountain.

====== 329 ========

ASHLEY GREENE'S HUSBAND PAUL KHOURY FEEDS HER CHIPS WHILE SHOPPING FOR THANKSGIVING GOODIES

Newlywed life suits Twilight alum Ashley Greene, who was spotted getting hand-fed chips by her husband Paul Khoury inside a Ralphs grocery store in Los Angeles on Tuesday.

The Florida-born 31-year-old and her Australian 30-year-old hubbie were shopping for their Thanksgiving feast together.

The Rogue stunner went make-up free for the errand and dressed way down in a black hoodie, distressed blue jeans, and white lace-up shoes.

Intimate: Newlywed life suits Twilight alum Ashley Greene, who was spotted getting hand-fed chips by her husband Paul Khoury inside a Ralphs grocery store in Los Angeles on Tuesday

Domestic: The Florida-born 31-year-old and her Australian 30-year-old hubbie were shopping for their Thanksgiving feast together

On their way inside the grocery, the Under Armour-clad former presenter wrapped his arm around Ashley and snapped selfies.

Greene and Khoury appeared to have been successful at completely loading up their cart with festive fall goodies.

Career-wise, Paul's last known job was producing and directing the 2016 horror short film The Darkness.

That same day, the Accident Man actress and her bearded beau met up with her concrete business-owning father Joe for a round of golf.

Casual: The Rogue stunner went make-up free for the errand and dressed way down in a black hoodie, distressed blue jeans, and white lace-up shoes

Smile! On their way inside the grocery, the Under Armour-clad former presenter wrapped his arm around Ashley and snapped selfies

Stocked up: Greene and Khoury appeared to have been successful at completely loading up their cart with festive fall goodies

Stay-at-home husband: Career-wise, Paul's last known job was producing and directing the 2016 horror short film The Darkness

The Coachella enthusiasts tied the knot on July 6 in San Jose after five years of dating.

Ashley and Paul recently revamped the dining room, living room, and guest room of their LA home courtesy of 'design psychologist' Kelli Ellis for The Design Network's webseries Design Therapy.

'Paul and I have lived in this house for like five years. I don't think there was like an a-ha moment. We both knew pretty early on that we wanted to move in together,' Greene explained.

'My two favorite guys!' That same day, the Accident Man actress and her bearded beau met up with her concrete business-owning father Joe for a round of golf

Nesting: Ashley and Paul recently revamped the dining room, living room, and guest room of their LA home courtesy of 'design psychologist' Kelli Ellis (R) for The Design Network's webseries Design Therapy

Greene explained: 'We both knew pretty early on that we wanted to move in together. We have a hard time really blending he and I both want. I think that's one of the things we were really struggling with'

Settled: The Coachella enthusiasts tied the knot on July 6 in San Jose after five years of dating

'We have a hard time really blending he and I both want. I think that's one of the things we're really struggling with. He's more masculine and I'm more feminine. He loves color and wood tones. I tend to go towards lighter colors and monochromatic.'

Before Khoury - the 5ft5in beauty reportedly romanced Ryan Phillippe, Josh Henderson, Chase Crawford, Ian Somerhalder, Adrian Grenier, Seth MacFarlane, and Joe Jonas.

The LAFD/ASPCA fundraiser's street sighting came two days after she dyed her blonde hair back to brunette to better portray The View co-host Abby Huntsman in Fair and Balanced.

'She's gone dark!' Greene's street sighting came two days after she dyed her blonde hair back to brunette to better portray The View co-host Abby Huntsman (R) in Fair and Balanced

'I'm so excited!' Ashley is 'honored' to play the 32-year-old former Fox News reporter (pictured in 2015) in Jay Roach's Roger Ailes sexual harassment drama featuring an all-star ensemble

Ashley is 'honored' to play the 32-year-old former Fox News reporter in Jay Roach's Roger Ailes sexual harassment drama featuring an all-star ensemble.

'She's gone dark. Set life. Not quite used to the makeup but it's fun to play sometimes,' Greene - who boasts 3.4M followers - wrote on Instagram Sunday.

'I'm so excited to finally be able to announce this. I'm honored to be a part of this incredible film!'

====== 330 ========

ELSA HOSK FLAUNTS CHISELED BIKINI BODY IN TURQUOISE SWIMSUIT AS SHE FROLICS AT TULUM BEACH

She was in New York a couple of weeks ago for the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show.

But Victoria's Secret Angel Elsa Hosk was enjoying a trip south of the border this Wednesday, frolicking on the beach Tulum, Mexico.

The Swedish 30-year-old showed off her bikini body in a turquoise two-piece at the tourist hot spot, which is about a two-hour drive from Chichen Itza.

Splish splash: Victoria's Secret Angel Elsa Hosk was enjoying a trip south of the border this Wednesday, frolicking on the beach Tulum, Mexico

The blonde bombshell, who used to be a professional basketball player in her native country, accessorized with a large pair of sunglasses.

On November 8, she was among the slew of models who hit the runway for the annual Victoria's Secret Fashion Show at Pier 94 in Midtown Manhattan.

This marked the extravaganza's homecoming to the United States - it took place in Shanghai last year and in Paris the year before that.

The new show was also the Victoria's Secret swan song of Adriana Lima, the longest-serving Angel, who announced her retirement from the brand that day.

A place in the sun: The Swedish 30-year-old showed off her bikini body in a turquoise two-piece at the tourist hot spot, which is about a two-hour drive from Chichen Itza

'Dear Victoria, Thank you for showing me the world, sharing your secrets, and most importantly not just giving me wings but teaching me to fly,' she wrote on Instagram.

Behati Prinsloo returned to the fashion show this month after skipping them for the past two years, during which time she gave birth to two children.

In 2016, Marie Claire posted an interview Elsa gave them, offering some hints as to how she has maintained her exquisite figure.

How she does it: The blonde bombshell told Marie Claire in an interview in 2016 that where exercise is concerned, 'I love boxing, and I try to mix it up as much as I can'

Where exercise is concerned, 'I love boxing, and I try to mix it up as much as I can. Boxing makes you kind of tight, so it's really good to mix that with barre, pilates, or something that'll stretch you out and make you longer.'

Elsa confessed that, 'I'm not the person that loves to be in the gym so much,' explaining that 'I like to mix it up as much as possible, otherwise I'll get bored.'

Her area of concentration, when it comes to honing her physique, is 'the butt for sure. It's just always on display. And it's a vicious circle because if you start working your butt out a lot and then you stop it, it goes like [makes a deflating motion with her hands]…you have to keep it up.'

====== 331 ========

ARIANA GRANDE DRESSES UP AS BRING IT ON CHEERLEADER IN THANK U, NEXT VIDEO

She's revealed her Thank U, Next, music video will have elements of classic rom-com movies Mean Girls, Legally Blonde and 13 Going On 30.

And Ariana Grande confirmed on Wednesday that the final film she'd be honoring would be Bring It On.

Taking to social media, the 25-year-old pop star shared various shots of herself in a cheerleading uniform uniform.

Surprise! Ariana Grande revealed on Wednesday that the final movie she'd be paying homage to in her upcoming Thank U, Next video would be the 2000 movie Bring It On

'I transferred from los angeles, your school has no gymnastics team this issaalast resort ........ ok i've never cheered before so what?' she captioned, quoting Eliza Dushku's line from the 2000 movie.

And the beauty also brought some of her closest friends in to cheer with her, including former Victorious co-star Daniella Monet.

Ariana's spent the past few days sharing images from her upcoming music video.

Behind-the-scenes; Ariana's spent the past few days sharing images from her upcoming music video

Identical! Ariana's pals all dressed up as characters from the popular film

Reunited! And the beauty also brought some of her closest friends in to cheer with her, including former Victorious co-star Daniella Monet

Rise to the top: Ariana (far left) and Daniella (far right) first rose to fame on the Nicolodean Show, Victorious (pictured L-R: Ariana Grande, Elizabeth Gillies, Victoria Justice, Daniella Monet in 2010)

Taking to Twitter, she wrote: 'i don't know if i've ever been this exhausted. ever. but these last three days were the most fun i've ever had. period.'

And while she shared a photo with Legally Blonde star Paulette, played by Jennifer Coolidge, it appears as though Kim Kardashian may also make a cameo.

'I just witnessed the best funniest thing OF ALL TIME OMG @ArianaGrande,' she tweeted out over the weekend.

It's a 2000s spectacular! She's revealed her Thank U, Next, music video will have elements of classic rom-com movies Mean Girls, Legally Blonde and 13 Going On 30

Will Kim make a cameo? 'I just witnessed the best funniest thing OF ALL TIME OMG @ArianaGrande,' she tweeted out over the weekend

Pals: Earlier in the week Ariana shared a photo with Legally Blonde star Paulette, played by Jennifer Coolidge

Ariana has also confirmed that Bring It On was the last movie she'd be paying tribute to in the video.

The beauty is yet to reveal the release date, but has shared it won't be this weekend.

Although released only two weeks ago, the ex-fiancee of Pete Davidson's song has already reached platinum success.

====== 332 ========

MINNIE DRIVER AND PHARRELL HOST A THANKSGIVING MEAL FOR THE HOMELESS

The stars were out on Wednesday in Los Angeles, but it wasn't for an award show or a premiere.

Instead, Minnie Driver joined Pharrell Williams and a slew of other celebrities to help the Los Angeles Mission host a Thanksgiving Meal.

The 48-year-old actress dished out stuffing, cranberry sauce, and turkey in Downtown LA.

Helping out: Minnie Driver joined Pharrell Williams and a slew of other celebrities to help the Los Angeles Mission host a Thanksgiving Meal

Minnie looked stylish as she donned a white t-shirt with black leather pant underneath the requisite red apron.

She wore a beige cap on her head and flannel-patterned, black-and-white, high top sneakers.

Red plastic gloves covered her hands and she had a name tag pasted over her stomach

Her 10-year-old son, Henry, joined in helping his mother feed the homeless.

Mission: The 48-year-old actress dished out stuffing, cranberry sauce, and turkey in Downtown LA

Family matter: Minnie looked stylish as she donned a white t-shirt with black leather pant underneath the requisite red apron

Pharrell handed out food in a green sweatshirt and shaded his eyes with a pair of oversized sunglasses.

He wore a beige hat and handed food out alongside his wife Helen Lasichanh.

The couple were spotted at the cranberry station, where they handed out small plastic containers of the purple sauce.

Good work: Pharrell handed out food in a green sweatshirt and shaded his eyes with a pair of oversized sunglasses

Together: He wore a beige hat and handed food out alongside his wife Helen Lasichanh

Kevin Hart was there with his youngest child, Kenzo Kash, 1, who he carried in his arms.

The 39-year-old comedian wore a black sweatshirt and a backwards baseball cap under his apron.

Blanca Blanco, 37, was also in attendance and donned a white shirt with silver stars underneath.

Example: Kevin Hart was their with his youngest child, Kenzo Kash, 1, who he carried in his arms

With a smile: The 39-year-old comedian wore a black sweatshirt and a backwards baseball cap under his apron

Stars: Blanca Blanco, 37, was also in attendance and donned a white shirt with silver stars underneath

Shahs of Sunset star Golnesa 'GG' Gharachedaghi, 36, helped hand out food in leggings and a hoodie.

Garcelle Beauvais, 51, helped along with her twins Jaid Thomas Nilon and Jax Joseph Nilon, both 11.

Nia Long, 48, was there with her sons Massai Zhivago Dorsey II and Kez Sunday Udoka.

Emma Kenney, 19, also joined in to help and wore a striped turtleneck under her apron.

Carry out: Shahs of Sunset star Golnesa 'GG' Gharachedaghi, 36, helped hand out food in leggings and a hoodie

Everyone can help: Garcelle Beauvais, 51, helped along with her twins Jaid Thomas Nilon and Jax Joseph Nilon, both 11

Handing out: Nia Long, 48, was there with her sons Massai Zhivago Dorsey II and Kez Sunday Udoka

Holidays: Emma Kenney, 19, also joined in to help and wore a striped turtleneck under her apron

Giving back: Also charitably donning the red apron was Golden Globe winner Jonathan Rhys Meyers (L)

Smile! The 41-year-old Irishman took a selfie with one of the other volunteers

====== 333 ========

DAVID ARQUETTE SAYS HE'S 'LUCKY TO BE ALIVE' IN WAKE OF INJURY SUFFERED IN WRESTLING DEATH MATCH

David Arquette says he's 'lucky to be alive' in the wake of a bloody death match that left him hospitalized with multiple injuries.

The 47-year-old actor spoke with People on Wednesday as he left a Los Angeles area hospital for treatment after suffering an infection when his neck was slashed this past Friday in his extreme exhibition against Nick Gage, a veteran East Coast death match wrestler.

'If I had been cut in the jugular, I probably wouldn't be here right now,' the Scream star told the magazine, adding he reverted to 'defense mode' amid the high emotion of the destructive match, in which he was hit with a glass light tube.

The latest: David Arquette, 47, says he's 'lucky to be alive' in the wake of a bloody death match that left him hospitalized with multiple injuries

'Sometimes they use those florescent light tubes and I got cut and started seeing dripping blood and I panicked,' the actor said. 'I turned around too quickly and the end of a broken bulb got me in my neck. It was gruesome.'

He said 'it was really scary' as he narrowly avoided potentially fatal injuries after severing his neck muscle in the match.

Arquette said that after an initial trip to the hospital he had to return after waking up with 'the shivers and a swollen neck.'

Fighting weight: The charismatic actor said he was inspired to take another run at the ring after shedding 50 pounds, but was naive with the structure of the death matches

Brutal: The Hollywood star tangled with veteran hardcore wrestler Nick Gage in a bloody exhibition

Arquette has dabbled in pro wrestling over the past few decades, wrestling for WWE on Raw in a handicap match against superstar Randy Orton in 2010; and before that, infamously winning the WCW World Heavyweight Champion title in a 2000 promotional gimmick for his wrestling comedy Ready to Rumble.

Arquette said that the latter inspired him to take another run at the squared circle in hopes of redeeming himself with wrestlers and fans.

'Eighteen years ago, I won a WCW World Heavyweight Belt,' he said, 'but that win was a big disgrace to the belt and the wrestling community and ever since people have been criticizing me.

Oozing machismo: The actor showed off his war scars on a tattoo of late wrestling legends Randy Savage and Miss Elizabeth

Too sweet: The actor posed with famed wrestler Scott 'Razor Ramon' Hall earlier this month

'I really wanted to prove myself and stand up for myself. I was sick of being bullied and for people thinking I'm just some punk from Hollywood.'

The charismatic actor said he was inspired to take another run at the ring after shedding 50 pounds, but was naive with the structure of the death matches, ultra violent exhibitions in which anything goes.

'I didn't know the extent of how hardcore those things are. I was in over my head for sure,' said Arquette, who said that while he loves wrestling and will make a comeback, he's done doing death matches.

====== 334 ========

MANDY MOORE CATCHES THIEF STEALING PACKAGES FROM HER DRIVEWAY ON CAMERA

Mandy Moore caught a thief on camera stealing packages from her driveway on Tuesday.

The 34-year-old, who got married on Sunday, shared a picture of the robber on Instagram — before putting FedEx on blast for making it so easy for him.

Busted: Mandy Moore caught a thief on camera stealing packages from her driveway on Tuesday

Didn't try: A second screen-grab revealed the three parcels had been dropped off just ten minutes earlier

'People that steal are the worst. Bad karma, folks,' she shared with her 3.1million followers on Wednesday, along with a still of the villain in the act.

A second screen-grab revealed the three parcels had been dropped off just ten minutes earlier.

'Not to be petty but @fedex — you did't even try to ring the doorbell. I was home,' she admonished.

'You just left it for someone to take 10 mins later. It's the holidays! You know this is happening everywhere — be better.'

On blast: 'People that steal are the worst. Bad karma, folks,' shared the actress, who just got married on Sunday

It was another low note in what has been a 'roller-coaster week' by her own admission, having gotten married and losing her beloved cat over the weekend.

On Sunday the actress wed musician Taylor Goldsmith; held at sunset in front of just 50 guests, including Mandy's co-stars Milo Ventimiglia and Chrissy Metz, the Pearson matriarch tied the knot in a pink gown.

Minka Kelly, Sterling K. Brown and even Mandy's former flame Wilmer Valderrama were also among the famous faces who turned out for the couple's big day.

Sadly just hours before the wedding, Mandy suffered a tragic loss when her rescue cat Madeline suddenly passed away.

Mandy and Taylor met on Instagram back in July 2015, with the musician proposing in the summer of 2017 after two years of dating.

Just married: On Sunday the actress wed musician Taylor Goldsmith

Dark cloud: Hours before the wedding, Mandy suffered a tragic loss after her beloved cat Madeline passed away

Heartbroken: The 34-year-old paid tribute to her pet on Instagram

At work: Later, Mandy was spotted on set as she left her trailer in Los Angeles

====== 335 ========

CHRISSY TEIGEN PREPS HER THANKSGIVING FEAST AS OTHER CELEBS GET FESTIVE FOR THE FALL HOLIDAY

Lip Sync Battle color commentator Chrissy Teigen shared a sneak peek Wednesday of her elaborate Thanksgiving feast preparations with her captive, combined 31.7M Twitter/Instagram following.

The Cravings author - turning 33 next week - cooked gravy with stock and turkey wings, asking: 'Anyone in the LA area need gravy?'

The half-Thai beauty dramatically discovered her live-in mother Vilailuck had 'stolen' turkey from the pot to snack on it while cuddled beneath a blanket on the couch.

Turkey day! Lip Sync Battle color commentator Chrissy Teigen shared a sneak peek Wednesday of her Thanksgiving feast preparations with her 31.7M followers (pictured Tuesday)

The Cravings author - turning 33 next week - cooked gravy with stock and turkey wings, asking: 'Anyone in the LA area need gravy?'

Chrissy shared clips of herself perfecting two scrumptious-looking pumpkin pies from scratch.

Teigen is just as well known for her delicious recipes from her two published cookbooks as she is for her wisecracks on Twitter.

The BECCA Cosmetics collaborator also Insta-storied a cute clip of her two-year-old daughter Luna Simone loading up her mug of hot chocolate with marshmallows and whipped cream.

The Hot Ones champ and her husband John Legend teamed up for A Legendary Christmas special - airing November 28 on NBC - which also features Luna and their six-month-old son Miles Theodore.

'Something is missing!' The half-Thai beauty discovered her live-in mother Vilailuck had 'stolen' turkey from the pot to snack on it while cuddled beneath a blanket on the couch

Cozy cooking session: Chrissy shared clips of herself perfecting two scrumptious-looking pumpkin pies from scratch

Hungry? Teigen is just as well known for her delicious recipes from her two published cookbooks as she is for her wisecracks on Twitter

'Not the whole bowl, just one!' The BECCA Cosmetics collaborator also Insta-storied a cute clip of her two-year-old daughter Luna Simone loading up her mug of hot chocolate with marshmallows and whipped cream

'It was so much fun to shoot!' Chrissy gushed on Tuesday's episode of The Ellen DeGeneres Show.

'It's like a throwback to those favorite episodes of those old shows, when they had a very special episode, a holiday episode.'

Celebrity guests include Stevie Wonder, Darren Criss, Jane Lynch, Awkwafina, Zach Galifianakis, Derek Hough, Kelly Clarkson, Kim Kardashian West, and The Fab Five From Queer Eye.

Teigen and the 39-year-old EGOT champ - who've been married for five years - originally met on the 2007 set of his Stereo music video.

Airing November 28 on NBC! The Hot Ones champ and her husband John Legend teamed up for A Legendary Christmas special, which also features Luna and their six-month-old son Miles Theodore (pictured November 4)

Chrissy said on Tuesday's Ellen Show: 'It was so much fun to shoot! It's like a throwback to those favorite episodes of those old shows, when they had a very special episode, a holiday episode'

Atop the Build-A-Bear float! The 39-year-old EGOT champ will perform his rendition of 'Merry Little Christmas' during Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, which airs Thursday on NBC

But first, the R&B belter will perform his rendition of 'Merry Little Christmas' atop the Build-A-Bear float during Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, which airs Thursday morning on NBC.

Meanwhile in Queens, 10-time Grammy-nominated rapper Nicki Minaj and her gospel singing mother Carol Maraj delivered a truckload of turkey to Rockaway Blvd. and 147 St.

Emmy-winning choreographer Julianne Hough and her husband - former NHL centre Brooks Laich - helped prep Thanksgiving at the Poole home where they stuffed 'grateful notes' inside crescent rolls.

The Honest Company boss Jessica Alba unveiled her family Christmas portrait featuring husband Cash Warren and their daughters Honor, 10; and Haven, 7; as well as son Hayes, 10 months.

'Mommy & I had a great time!' Meanwhile in Queens, 10-time Grammy-nominated rapper Nicki Minaj and her gospel singing mother Carol Maraj delivered a truckload of turkey to Rockaway Blvd. and 147 St.

Fortune cookie twist! Emmy-winning choreographer Julianne Hough and her husband - former NHL centre Brooks Laich - helped prep Thanksgiving at the Poole home where they stuffed 'grateful notes' inside crescent rolls

'Happy holidays!' The Honest Company boss Jessica Alba unveiled her family Christmas portrait featuring husband Cash Warren and their three children

'#ThatMomLife': The 37-year-old Golden Globe nominee also Insta-storied her Thanksgiving manicure while crafting felt Advent calendars for the upcoming merry holiday

The 37-year-old Golden Globe nominee also Insta-storied her Thanksgiving manicure while crafting felt Advent calendars for the upcoming merry holiday.

Elsewhere, Oscar nominee Kate Hudson shared clips of her blended family's 'turkey for 30' table settings and prep for green bean casserole and sweet potato soufflé.

Wednesday also marked the 73rd birthday of the 39-year-old Fabletics founder's famous mother, Oscar winner Goldie Hawn.

'Set up time!' Elsewhere, Oscar nominee Kate Hudson shared clips of her blended family's 'turkey for 30' table settings and prep for green bean casserole and sweet potato soufflé

'Fearless leader, my number one, my heart, my love!' Wednesday also marked the 73rd birthday of the 39-year-old Fabletics founder's famous mother, Oscar winner Goldie Hawn (R)

'The bean helping me in the kitchen!' Younger star Hilary Duff prepped her orange peel-infused 'brine for the birdy' while cradling 28-day-old daughter Banks with babydaddy Matthew Koma

'Thanksgiving, but make it fashion!' Golden Globe nominee Emmy Rossum couldn't 'wait to eat' her gluten-free, Paleo-friendly, sugar-free confection 'with my family'

Grateful: Three-time Grammy winner Gwen Stefani and her family painted what they were thankful for on a pumpkin while celebrating in beau Blake Shelton's Oklahoma hometown

Younger star Hilary Duff prepped her orange peel-infused 'brine for the birdy' while cradling her 28-day-old daughter Banks Violet with babydaddy Matthew Koma.

Golden Globe nominee Emmy Rossum couldn't 'wait to eat' her Goodies Against The Grain gluten-free, Paleo-friendly, sugar-free confection 'with my family.'

Three-time Grammy winner Gwen Stefani and her family painted what they were thankful for on a pumpkin while celebrating the holiday in beau Blake Shelton's Oklahoma hometown.

====== 336 ========

NICKI MINAJ CANCELS SHANGHAI CONCERT THAT WAS A 'SCAM'

Nicki Minaj flew all the way to Shanghai, China last week to headline a music festival that is said to have been a scam.

While Minaj hasn't told her side of the story, videos had surfaced with Minaj telling fans that she plans on returning.

'I'll be back, you guys, for my real fans in Shanghai, in China, I love you so much,' Minaj said in a video posted on Twitter. 'I'll be back with a better partner.'

Nicki thanks real fans: Nicki Minaj thanks the fans after learning the concert she was supposed to be paid $3 million for was allegedly a scam.

Minaj was promised a whopping $3 million to perform at a festival called the Djakarta Warehouse Project (DWP).

Just before she arrived, the DWP website released a statement claiming it had no association with the concert.

'The event rumored to take place in Shanghai on 17th & 18th of November 2018 is an unauthorized use of DWP trademark,' began the statement.

Nicki and her fans: Nicki Minaj poses with fans in China before heading back to the United States after a festival she was set to headline turned out to be a scam

Headlining: Minaj was reportedly set to be paid $3 million to headline the festival.

'DWP as a brand, has no association with the event. The alleged lineup artwork of DWP China, which has been circulating online is unauthorized,' concluded the statement.

Shanghaiist reports that Minaj was promised there would be at least 8,000 fans in attendance, but there were only about 1,000 fans who showed up at the National Exhibition and Convention Center in Shanghai’s western Qingpu district.

The site speculates that Minaj may have found out too late that the festival was fraudulent, but the festival has fired back, blaming Minaj for refusing to take the stage.

Addressing the fans: Minaj was promised a whopping $3 million to perform at a festival called the Djakarta Warehouse Project (DWP)

Nicki in Shanghai: 'DWP as a brand, has no association with the event. The alleged lineup artwork of DWP China, which has been circulating online is unauthorized,' concluded the statement

Minaj had been slated to perform a 90-minute set as the two-day festival's headliner, but the festival responded to DWP's statement, producing a 'power of attorney' document to prove they did have the right to use DWP's trademark.

DWP Shanghai released another statement on their Weibo account, claiming Minaj didn't arrive on time and then refused to perform.

The festival organizers negotiated with the singer for two hours before her manager ultimately took the stage to tell the fans Minaj would not perform.

Nicki's fans: Shanghaiist reports that Minaj was promised there would be at least 8,000 fans in attendance, but there were only about 1,000 fans who showed up at the National Exhibition and Convention Center in Shanghai’s western Qingpu district.

DWP statement: 'The event rumored to take place in Shanghai on 17th & 18th of November 2018 is an unauthorized use of DWP trademark,' began the statement

'We strongly condemn this behavior and would like to sincerely apologize to our audience,' read DWP Shanghai's statement, adding they will refund the fans who paid to see Minaj.

The traditional DWP festival has been traditionally held in Bali for the past 10 years, with the most recent festival held in December, which traditionally attracts top talent.

Some have compared the fiasco to the ill-planned Fyre Fest, with tickets to Minaj's concert going for upwards of $420.

Minaj in Shanghai: The traditional DWP festival has been traditionally held in Bali for the past 10 years, with the most recent festival held in December, which traditionally attracts top talent

====== 337 ========

TUPAC SHAKUR'S ESTATE TEASES NEW MUSIC RELEASE TO COINCIDE WITH 20TH ANNIVERSARY OF GREATEST HITS

Tupac Shakur has been dead for 22 years, but fans may be getting new music from the iconic rapper on Saturday.

The official Twitter and Instagram accounts for the rapper, which are run by his estate, sent out a photo of Tupac that also reads 1998 and 'Saturday 11/24.'

While nothing further was revealed, there was a LinkTree site where fans can, 'Sign up to be the first to know.'

New Tupac music: The official Twitter and Instagram pages for Tupac Shakur claim something new is dropping on Saturday, which may be new music

The LinkTree site has four buttons on it, the first of which is labeled, '1998 - Be the first to know...' which directs fans to Shop.2Pac.com.

On that site, there is a countdown to midnight on November 24, with fans given the chance to enter their email to sign up.

The second button says 'NEW APPAREL: 2018 Fall Collection,' which also goes back to the same website,

Pac Shop: The LinkTree site has four buttons on it, the first of which is labeled, '1998 - Be the first to know...' which directs fans to Shop.2Pac.com

The third button goes to the rapper's official site (2Pac.com) while the final button allows fans to sign up for the official mailing list.

This news comes more than a month after Suge J. Knight, the son of Death Row Records founder Suge Knight, claimed Shakur is still alive, and living in Malaysia.

There had been rumors about Tupac being alive for many years, after he was shot and killed in Las Vegas in September 1996.

Tupac might be alive: This news comes more than a month after Suge J. Knight, the son of Death Row Records founder Suge Knight, claimed Shakur is still alive, and living in Malaysia

There was also a report in late September that indicated new music from Shakukr would be on the way.

The Blast reported in late September that the five-year legal battle between the Shakur estate and Entertainment One, over royalties owed to the estate from Shakur's albums, has been settled.

The report revealed that the estate will not only get a cash settlement, reportedly over $1 million, but also a slew of unreleased master recordings, which could be enough for two or three new albums.

Shakur music: There was also a report in late September that indicated new music from Shakukr would be on the way

That report also indicated that while there was no set date on when the music would be released, the site was told the plan was to start 'cranking them out ASAP.'

Proceeds from the albums will go to the estate with beneficiaries such as his sisters, will be getting 'big windfalls of cash.'

There will also be, 'large contributions made to charities that meant a lot to both Tupac and his mother,' according to the report.

====== 338 ========

VANDERPUMP'S KRISTEN DOUTE EXPRESSES REGRET FOR INFAMOUS SEXCAPADE ON EX-BOYFRIEND'S COUCH

Vanderpump Rules' Kristen Doute was left red-faced when her romp with Jax Taylor on then-boyfriend's Tom Sandoval's couch was exposed in season two.

And four years on, Kristen Doute has expressed sincere regret over the cheating scandal during an interview with Australian radio show Kyle and Jackie O.

The 35-year-old former employee of Lisa Vanderpump's Sur restaurant said on Thursday: 'I'm not proud of [my behaviour]. I hurt so many people.'

'I'm not proud of it - I hurt so many people': Vanderpump Rules' Kristen Doute admitted on Thursday she regrets THAT romp with Jax Taylor on boyfriend Tom Sandoval's couch

When her now ex-boyfriend Tom discovered the betrayal, he lashed out at Jax in what viewers later called 'the most vicious reality TV fight ever'.

Kristen admitted on Kyle and Jackie O that while being exposed for the sexual indiscretion was painful, it was also 'well deserved'.

'I'm a really crappy liar, but I'm a good actress. I was trying to pretend it away, but it was eating away at me. I'm not an evil human,' she said, reflecting on the backlash.

'I was trying to pretend it away, but it was eating away at me': Kristen said that while being exposed for the sexual indiscretion was painful, it was also 'well deserved'. Pictured with Jax

It's complicated! At the time of the incident, Jax (pictured left with Brittany Cartwright) was also in a relationship with Kristen's best friend Stassi Schroeder (right)

Kristen later joked that she was grateful the incident was never caught on camera, before adding: 'I've got all my friends back [now] and I proved myself.'

At the time of the cheating incident, Jax was also in a relationship with Kristen's best friend Stassi Schroeder.

The aftermath of the infidelity was shown in episode of Vanderpump Rules that aired in 2014.

Tom began a vicious brawl with Jax after discovering the affair. Fans were horrified at the time, as Jax was left bleeding from the altercation.

Shocking display: The aftermath of the infidelity was shown in episode of Vanderpump Rules that aired in 2014. Tom (left) began a vicious brawl with Jax (right), leaving him bleeding

Jax spoke about the incident later in 2014, saying: 'What I did was wrong, but it's not like [Tom] was being the best boyfriend he could [be] for her.'

Kristen last appeared on Vanderpump Rules in season six, during an episode that aired on May 28, 2018.

Vanderpump Rules Season 7 streams Tuesdays from December 4, same day as the US on Foxtel and hayu

====== 339 ========

JUSTIN BIEBER RESPONDS TO AARON CARTER'S COMPLAINT OVER YOUNGER STARS

Justin Bieber has answered back to Aaron Carter.

Carter reignited talk of a feud with the Biebs amid a Twitter chat among fans over the levels of success they reached in their respective careers.

After a user wondered why Carter 'never reached the level of success @justinbieber did,' the Sooner or Later singer, 30, quoted the tweet and expressed his take on the matter.

The latest: Justin Bieber has answered back to Aaron Carter after Carter reignited talk of a feud with the Biebs amid a Twitter chat among fans over the levels of success they reached in their respective careers

Homage: Bieber seemed respectful to Carter in a tweet he sent on Wednesday

'Listen man. I can’t sit here & just not say anything to that, I’ve been in this industry before he was born,' he wrote Tuesday. 'I’ve had harder times and always bounce back. No I’m not Justin Bieber I’m Aaron Carter. I’m also in construction. I paved the way.

He ended the post in saying that the 'kids have NEVER paid me homage.'

Bieber seemed to be paying the aforementioned respect in his response via Twitter on Wednesday. The Canadian pop star, 24, wrote, 'Aaron carter i had your album when I was little.

'And bumped the song Aaron's party. I was like 7. if you need a hype man I got you.'

Making his case: Carter sent this Tweet after one user asked why 'he never reached the level of success Justin Bieber did'

Pop star cred: Carter's need to be recognized as a trendsetter for Bieber dates back several years; both singers got their start when they were young boys

After Carter's initial remarks, it didn't take long before other Twitter trolls jumped into the conversation.

One user accused Carter of using Bieber's name to promote his new album, adding that he 'won't be listening or buying' and that 'Carter has done this before.'

The 30-year old singer fired back: 'I don't care if you do. I'm gold in 10 countries and 100 million streams on my last single released. And two top 40 hits off my new music. Nice try bud.'

Then in another reference to Bieber he said: 'I produce my music and write it too & direct my videos I sold 10 million records before that kid was born.'

Carter was a mere nine years old when his debut album was released in 1997. Bieber was 14 when his first EP dropped in 2009.

More war of words: Carter sent this Tweet after someone accused him of using Bieber's name to promote his new album

Back in the groove: Carter released his fifth studio album Love in February 2018

Carter's need to be recognized as a trendsetter for Bieber dates back several years.

During an appearance on a podcast with Theo Von & Matthew Cole Weiss in early 2017, Carter teased Bieber and his manager Scooter Braun by saying: 'I hope you're enjoying my pavement,' according to People.

And in 2015, Bieber's attorney was asked during a Billboard interview how the pop star did 'not turn into Aaron Carter,' which was a reference to his arrests for drugs and alcohol and legal problems over the years.

The following year Carter called the conversation 'upsetting' during an interview on Oprah: Where Are They Now?

'I found such offense in that. I thought that was outlandish,' adding, 'Maybe there is some sort of threat, here?'

====== 340 ========

KATE HUDSON WISHES MOM GOLDIE HAWN HAPPY BIRTHDAY AS SHE PREPARES TO HOST 30 FOR THANKSGIVING

She gave birth to her first child with Danny Fujikawa, and third overall, at the beginning of October.

But Kate Hudson is not letting her newborn slow her down as she is planning to host 30 for Thanksgiving dinner.

Even with all that, the 39-year-old actress still, somehow, managed to find time to wish her mother, Goldie Hawn, a happy birthday on Instagram.

Holiday spirit: Kate Hudson is not letting her newborn slow down as she is planning to host 30 for Thanksgiving dinner

Happy birthday: Kate Hudson is not letting her newborn slow down as she is planning to host 30 for Thanksgiving dinner

The Fool's Gold star shared photos of all the 'prep' going into her massive holiday meal in two Instagram stories.

The first showed giant portions of sweet potatoes and green beans stewing with some sort of meat.

The second image revealed three tables surrounded by wooden chairs, and had the words, 'Set up time! #turkeyforthirty,' written across it.

Big meal: The second image revealed three tables surrounded by wooden chairs, and had the words, 'Set up time! #turkeyforthirty,' written across it

Later, Kate shared a photo of herself, her son Ryder Robinson, and her 73-year-old mother.

In the image, the 14-year-old child of Kate is smushed be between his mother and his grandma as they sit by the water.

Kate captioned the image, 'Fearless leader, my number one, my heart, my love, my joy, my everything, MY MAMA! Happy happy happy birthday.'

Happy couple: She gave birth to her first child with Danny Fujikawa, and third overall, at the beginning of October.

Sweet: Kate gave birth to Rani Rose Hudson Fujikawa on the second day of October

Kate gave birth to Rani Rose Hudson Fujikawa on the second day of October.

Kurt previously commented on how Kate is 'different' with raising her daughter to her two sons in an interview with PEOPLE.

He told the publication: 'She’s a little different with the little girl, I think at this stage, than I remember her being with her boys.

'We’re really glad. We’re proud of Danny and the relationship that grew between Kate and Danny, the result being Rani Rose.'

====== 341 ========

MICHELLE OBAMA'S 'BECOMING' MEMOIR SELLS 1.4 MILLION COPIES IN A WEEK

Michelle Obama's 'Becoming' has become a massive hit.

Crown Publishing told The Associated Press on Wednesday that the former first lady's memoir has sold more than 1.4 million copies in print and digital formats in the U.S. and Canada in the seven days since it was released November 13.

Michelle and former President Barack Obama each have been working on memoirs this year, for which they negotiated a $65million dollar deal with Crown Publishing Group/Penguin Random House. His book is expected in 2019.

'I've spent the last year and a half reflecting on my story as deeply and honestly as I could, and now I'm thrilled to travel the country and do the same with readers,' Michelle previously said in a statement.

Former first lady Michelle Obama kicks off her 'Becoming' book tour with signing at the Seminary Co-op bookstore on November 13, 2018 in Chicago, Illinois

Crown Publishing said on Wednesday that the former first lady's memoir has sold more than 1.4 million copies in print and digital formats in the U.S. and Canada in the seven days since it was released November 13

Obama signs copies of her memoir Becoming at the Seminary Co-op Bookstore in Chicago, Illinois on November 13, 2018

Michelle Obama and Ellen Degeneres head to Costco supermarket for a chaotic Becoming book signing for The Ellen Show segment

Based on demand from retailers across all channels, the publisher has printed 3 million hardcover copies in North America.

On its first day, the book sold more than 725,000 copies, making it one of the year's biggest debuts.

Crown also said that 'Becoming' is currently the No. 1 adult nonfiction title in the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Holland, Spain, Denmark and Finland.

In Germany, some 200,000 copies have been sold, prompting a second printing of 100,000 copies.

In the United Kingdom, 'Becoming' is published by Viking and it has had five press runs with a total of 575,000 copies in print.

In Holland, the Dutch-language edition is the best-selling book in the Netherlands, with the English-language edition ranked second.

'Becoming' topped the Amazon chart this week on bestselling biographies

'Becoming' is well exceeding the pace of previous memoirs by first ladies. In 2003, Hillary Clinton's 'Living History' had first week sales of around 600,000 copies.

Reviews of the book, which traces Obama's journey from Chicago's South Side to the White House, have been positive.

The Washington Post praising its 'impressive balance in telling the truth of her challenges while repeatedly acknowledging her lucky life.'

'Becoming' topped the Amazon chart this week on bestselling biographies.

'The Magnolia Story' by Chip Gaines followed behind Obama, Trevor Noah's 'Born a Crime: Stories from a South African Childhood' and Tara Westover's 'Educated: A Memoir.'

In this November 17, 2018 file photo, the former first lady Michelle Obama speaks to the crowd as she presents her anticipated memoir 'Becoming' during her book tour stop in Washington

Oprah Winfrey, who visited Obama during her book tour, told the Associated Press earlier this month she had selected 'Becoming' for her book club.

She said: 'This book is everything you wanted to know and so much you didn't even know you wanted to know. I believe it's going to spark within you the desire to think about your own becoming.

'It's so well-written I can hear her voice; I can hear her expressions; I can feel her emotion. What she allows us to see is how she was able to discover, define and then refine her voice.'

In this book, Obama shares such deeply personal revelations such as suffering a miscarriage and sharply criticizes President Donald Trump for promoting the false 'birther' rumor that Barack Obama was not a U.S. citizen.

====== 342 ========

PLAYBOY BOSS HUGH HEFNER’S TACKY TRINKETS GO UP FOR SALE INCLUDING ENTIRE WALL OF PHOTOS OF HIMSELF

With its unique blend of luxury and tackiness, it is the bedroom that could only have belonged to Hugh Hefner.

The tycoon’s boudoir in the Playboy mansion has been revealed ahead of an auction of his belongings, showing off where he entertained three wives and dozens of Playboy bunnies.

The questionable taste of the Playboy founder, who died last September aged 91, is on full display.

Hefner put a Betty Boop statue by the fireplace, a monster head above it and a painting of a nude woman above them both.

One wall is covered with photos of himself with women.

Auctioneers Julien’s hope Hefner’s style will be a hit when dozens of his personal items go under the hammer on November 30 in Beverly Hills.

Hugh Hefner's master bedroom at his Playboy mansion in Beverly Hills includes many of the trinkets he collected over his long-life in publishing

Hugh Hefner and wife Crystal Hefner at the Playboy Mansion. All his belongings are to be sold at auction at the end of the month

Among the lots is a eight inch tall vintage painted ceramic ashtray with a female nude, valued at $75 to $150 (£59-78).

His singular taste is apparent is a fishnet-stockinged lamp with a fringed shade, valued similarly.

Furniture includes a carved oak chair valued at $400 to $600 (£313-469) and a tiger print sofa, valued at $1,500 to $2,000 (£1,174-£1,565).

Others lots include his signature scarlet silk smoking jacket – a style also worn by third wife Crystal Harris – which is expected to reach between $3,000 and $5,000 (£2,348-£3,913).

A selection of his captain’s hats is up for sale for between $300 and $500 (£234-391) and there is also a pair of his monogrammed scarlet Dunhill slippers, size nine-and-a-half, for $400 to $600 (£313-469).

This eight-and-a-half inch vintage painted ceramic ashtray of a naked woman is expected to fetch between $75 to $150

Hef's 44-inch fishnet stocking leg lamp in high heels which sat in his mater bedroom is thought to be worth between $100 to $200

Hefner's first edition copy of Playboy magazine was discovered earlier this month after 65 years and is set to make thousands for charity.

The 1953 publication, which famously featured Marilyn Monroe on the cover, has recently been unearthed by the late publisher's children, following his death last year.

They have decided to sell the rare magazine along with a number of his other possessions to raise money for charity.

Hefner's personal copy of the first issue of Playboy magazine which featured featuring Marilyn Monroe on the cover in 1953, it has an estimated value of $3,000-$5,000

Hefner's famous sailor cap will also be on sale, along with his Playboy logo cuff links and carved briar pipe also featuring a Playboy logo

Hefner's signature red smoking jacket which is expected to fetch up to $5,000

The first edition is to go under the hammer with Julien's Auctions in Los Angeles who are expecting offers up to $5,000.

The magazine remains in fantastic condition and depicts a smiling Monroe in a revealing black dress on its cover.

It cost just 50 cent to buy at the time and boasts on the cover that the publication offers the 'famous Marilyn Monroe nude' in full colour for the first time in any magazine.

The infamous Monroe nude which sold out in 1953 when the screen siren was at the peak of her fame

The auction will take place on November 30 and December 1 at Julien's Auctions with all proceeds going to the Hugh M. Hefner Foundation

The first centrefold: a Monroe print from the 1953 first edition will also be on sale in the vast collection. The first edition copy of Playboy magazine that belonged to Hugh Hefner was uncovered after 65 years

Chauvinistic: Showing the times that were 1953, the magazine's introduction says: 'If you're somebody's sister, wife or mother-in-law and picked us up by mistake, please pass us along to the man in your life and get back to your Ladies Home Companion'

Inside, the pages also remain well kept, including a nude pinup shot of the blonde bombshell, which acts as the centrefold.

The edition completely sold out at the time and went on to sell more than 50,000 copies.

It launched Playboy into the the public consciousness and soon celebrities were queuing up to pose for the magazine.

His signature tailoring will also be on sale, including his bespoke smoking jacket, worth $5,000 and his silk pajamas, which are valued at $2,000.

Custom 1974 Playboy Monopoly game in a wooden box marked "Monopoly Parts for HMH" with an estimated value of $6,000-$8,000

The Monopoly board game includes a pipe smoking Hefner and Playboy Bunny, among other mansion regulars, custom Hefner Monopoly money, houses and hotels

In January 1952 Hefner quit his job at Esquire after he was refused a five dollar raise and began taking out loans to start his own magazine, also on sale is his Underwood Standard Portable typewriter worth $500

Hefner's 2016 passport will also be on sale in the massive haul set to make thousands for his civil rights focused charity at the end of the month

Hefner's complete personal set of bound Playboy volumes is anticipated to be the most lucrative sale, with estimates at $40,000.

Hefner, who was extremely well read, also owned a first edition copy of F. Scott Fitzgerald's 'The Great Gatsby' and large folio volumes of Slavador Dali's 'Biblia Sacra', worth more than $15,000.

Martin Nolan, executive director of Julien's Auctions, said: 'We are honoured to present this extraordinary auction event that celebrates a pop culture icon, whose life and legacy truly embodied the American dream.'

Hefner's vintage 1946 coin-operated Wurlitzer jukebox programmed by Hefner and from his game house. It contains 24 original 78 rpm record albums by artists such as Artie Shaw, Frank Sinatra, Harry James, Johnny Mercer and Lena Horne. The auctioneers estimate $10,000 to $20,000.

A playboy photo shoot print; Hefner's 2007 Playboy Legacy Collection Gold, features a set of 48 chromogenic and gelatin silver prints by various photographers in a wooden case and could sell for $30,000

Christie Hefner, his daughter, added: 'Whether it was building his company into one of the most recognizable global brands in history or standing up for social, sexual and civil rights causes, my father lived an extraordinary life as a publishing, social and cultural pioneer.'

All proceeds will be donated to the Hugh M. Hefner Foundation, which was established in 1964 to support efforts in defense of civil rights, with emphasis on First Amendment rights and rational sex and drug policies.

Hefner's iconic Playboy Mansion in Los Angeles was sold in May 2016 to Daren Metropoulos, the co-owner of Hostess Brands, for $100 million.

Hefner continued to live in the mansion until his death at the age of 91 from natural causes in September 2017.

The auction will take place on November 30 and December 1 at The Standard Oil Building in Beverly Hills, Los Angeles.

====== 343 ========

TYRESE GIBSON'S EX-WIFE NORMA GIBSON 'REFUSES TO GET A JOB'

Tyrese Gibson's legal battles with ex-wife Norma Gibson continue, with Norma refusing to get a job of her own.

The court-ordered child support deal between the exes do mandate that Norma must work to become self-sufficient, but she isn't doing so, according to legal documents obtained by TMZ.

Gibson's attorneys asked Norma at a deposition what she was doing on August 21 that required seven hours of childcare support, with Norma responding she was busy, 'living life.'

Tyrese's ex needs to work: Tyrese Gibson claims his ex-wife Norma Gibson needs to find work

Happier times: Tyrese Gibson seen with his ex-wife Norma Gibson in 2008

Norma also added, 'I am working. I am working on my book. I am working on my life. I am running errands at home.'

Attorneys for Gibson, 39, believe she feels no obligation to find work and start contributing to raising their daughter Shayla, 11.

The Fast & Furious star's lawyers believe she thinks that Tyrese will simply pay for everything because he's rich, but the actor's recent financial troubles are well-documented.

Legal battle: Attorneys for Gibson, 39, believe she feels no obligation to find work and start contributing to raising their daughter Shayla, 11

Tyrese, Shayla and Norma: Tyrese carries young Shayla while accompanied by Norma in 2010

The site adds that Gibson isn't fighting child support payments to his ex, but he's fighting her request to pay her lawyer's fees.

Documents revealed the actor is pulling in $51K a month, on average, but he's paying out $114K a month for his mortgage, child care, groceries and utilities, which included the $10K a month he pays Norma in child support.

That report also revealed the $800K he had in savings has now dwindled down to $130K

Tyrese and Norma: The site adds that Gibson (seen with Norma in 2008) isn't fighting child support payments to his ex, but he's fighting her request to pay her lawyer's fees

Gibson has also claimed that the domestic violence charges Norma levied against him have made it hard to book any new work.

He also also wants Norma to provide receipts for the $25 an hour in childcare costs since she has proven she isn't working and shouldn't need child care in the first place.

The actor claims he shouldn't have to pay for child care for personal reasons and the court didn't lay out any guidelines for when he has to reimburse her for child care.

Exes: Gibson has also claimed that the domestic violence charges Norma levied against him have made it hard to book any new work

Gibson also publicly feuded with his Fast & Furious co-star Dwayne Johnson after he moved forward with a spin-off starring Jason Statham instead of a new Fast & Furious sequel.

Universal will start filming Fast & Furious 9 next year, with a 2020 release date in place, with Fast & Furious 10 slated to close out the flagship franchise in 2021.

He hasn't starred in a movie since 2017's The Fate of The Furious, but in October, he welcomed his second child, daughter Soraya, with his second wife Samantha Lee.

New dad: He hasn't starred in a movie since 2017's The Fate of The Furious, but in October, he welcomed his second child, daughter Soraya, with his second wife Samantha Lee

====== 344 ========

REAL HOUSEWIVES OF DALLAS: LEEANNE LOCKEN CONVINCES BRANDI REDMOND SHE'S HACKED HER PHONE

Brandi Redmond and LeeAnne Locken's bitter feud moved from Copenhagen to Texas on Wednesday's episode of The Real Housewives Of Dallas.

The 40-year-old reality star remained furious with LeeAnne, 51, even as the housewives returned from their Danish getaway.

However the former pageant contestant had her own axe to grind after accusing Brandi of stealing her phone.

Still going: Brandi Redmond and LeeAnne Locken's bitter feud moved from Copenhagen to Texas on Wednesday's episode of The Real Housewives Of Dallas

During the episode, titled Game Of Phones, tensions are running high at dinner in Copenhagen, with Brandi still upset about LeeAnne recording her topless dip in the Baltic Sea without permission.

Then Brandi takes it a step further by lashing out at all the Housewives, announcing 'All of you have been a bunch of fake b***hes'.

Brandi then storms off and 49-year-old D'Andra Simmons follows her, leaving LeeAnne stung by the perceived betrayal by her new ally.

'Choice made' says LeeAnne, cryptically.

Meanwhile Cary Deuber, 42, seems amused by the drama, admitting during a confessional: 'For me it's expected that these guys are gonna pitch a fit at dinner'.

The 40-year-old reality star remained furious with LeeAnne, 51, [pictured] even as the housewives returned from their Danish getaway

Epic feud: During the episode, titled Game Of Phones, tensions are running high at dinner in Copenhagen, with Brandi [pictured] still upset about LeeAnne recording her topless dip

The women then all fly back to Texas, where LeeAnne prepares for her upcoming fashion show, where she will debut her 'ultimate little black dress' called L'Infinity.

Meanwhile Cary and Kameron debrief, discussing an incident in Copenhagen in which Brandi 'found' LeeAnne's phone down in the bar.

Naturally, LeeAnne thinks Brandi stole her phone to check she'd deleted the video.

They then discuss a rumor spread by LeeAnne that she took Brandi's phone as retribution and 'cloned' it, thereby stealing all of her rival's data.

Cary finds the notion preposterous, saying the whole scenario 'is CSI on crack'.

Talking it out: Meanwhile back in Dallas, Cary and Kameron debrief, discussing an incident in Copenhagen in which Brandi 'found' LeeAnne's phone down in the bar

She said WHAT: Cary finds the notion preposterous, saying the whole scenario 'is CSI on crack'

Later, the women arrive at LeeAnne's fashion show - all except for Brandi, who wasn't invited, and Stephanie, who cancels because she doesn't want 'to hear about the phone situation'.

The models show off Brandi's dress, which can be modified to be worn 175 different times.

However, Cary remains unimpressed, saying the dress 'is not my cup of tea. I'd rather buy 175 different dresses than wear one dress 175 different ways'.

Catwalk: Later, the women arrive at LeeAnne's fashion show - all except for Brandi, who wasn't invited, and Stephanie, who cancels because she doesn't want 'to hear about the phone situation'

Diverse: The models show off Brandi's dress, which can be modified to be worn 175 different times

That don't impress me much: However, Cary remains unimpressed, saying the dress 'is not my cup of tea. I'd rather buy 175 different dresses than wear one dress 175 different ways'

After the show, the women debrief about the situation, with LeeAnne practically screaming 'DON'T STEAL PEOPLE'S F**KING PHONES!'

Cary shushes her friend, whose performance is drawing attention from the other guests.

In a confessional, LeeAnne calls Brandi a 'b**ch, but says the younger woman 'gets away with it cause she's just a little ginger'.

====== 345 ========

REESE WITHERSPOON STAYS TRUE TO HER SOUTHERN ROOTS AS SHE MAKES BISCUITS AHEAD OF THANKSGIVING

She grew up in Nashville and is no stranger to southern cuisine.

And Reese Witherspoon fired up her Insta Stories the day before Thanksgiving to show herself kneading dough, as it was 'Time to make the biscuits.'

The 42-year-old Academy Award winner was wearing a navy and white floral apron from her southern-themed clothing line Draper James.

Scroll down for video

Full steam ahead: Reese Witherspoon fired up her Insta Stories the day before Thanksgiving to show herself kneading dough, as it was 'Time to make the biscuits'

In 2016, she gave O magazine the buttermilk biscuit recipe she learned from her grandmother Dorothea, whose surname Draper was used for the fashion brand.

Reese, who earned her Oscar playing June Carter in the Johnny Cash biopic Walk The Line, evidently had the South on her mind ahead of this Thanksgiving.

Last week, she used her Draper James blog to plug Pie Bar in Woodstock, Georgia, and interviewed its co-owner Lauren Bolden.

Reese wrote: 'A real Southern Thanksgiving always has a few staples: sweet potato casserole, green bean casserole, stuffing, cranberry sauce, and pie.'

Always plugging: The 42-year-old Academy Award winner was wearing a navy and white floral apron from her southern-themed clothing line Draper James

She married talent agent Jim Toth in 2011 at her then country estate in Ojai, California and they share one child together - six-year-old son Tennessee.

Reese was previously married from 1999 until 2007 to her Cruel Intentions co-star Ryan Phillippe, with whom she has two children - Ava, 19, and Deacon, 15.

The Legally Blonde icon, whose acclaimed HBO show Big Little Lies wrapped its second season in August, praised southern style to Garden And Gun in 2015.

Pride in her roots: Last week, she used her Draper James blog to plug Pie Bar in Woodstock, Georgia, and interviewed its co-owner Lauren Bolden

'Every Southern woman I meet is always so pulled together. I’m just saying you don’t see a Southern woman standing in the airport in sweatpants. You just don’t.'

Reese added: 'Even when they are stressed and their kids are swarming around their legs, they do things with grace. It’s how we were raised.'

Explained she: 'We all have those lessons of what your mother or grandma told you was "appropriate" or "attractive." That idea is quintessentially Southern.'

====== 346 ========

NAOMI CAMPBELL IS SUPER CHIC IN BLACK LEATHER TASSEL SKIRT AND SHADES AS SHE ENJOYS DINNER DATE

She's heading to Johannesburg next month to host the Global Citizen Festival.

And Naomi Campbell was keen to enjoy some African cuisine on Wednesday night while still in London, heading to hot spot Ikoyi.

The iconic model, 48, looked chic in a black leather tassel skirt and shades as she strutted to the Michelin-starred eatery.

Chic: Naomi Campbell was keen to enjoy some African cuisine on Wednesday night while still in London, heading to hot spot Ikoyi

Naomi chose an unusual tassel skirt for her dinner date, layered over opaque tights.

She added a cropped black tuxedo jacket and boots, while wearing shades despite the darkness.

A pop of colour came from her snakeskin bag and she completed the ultra glam ensemble with a flawless face of makeup.

Dinner date: The iconic model, 48, looked chic in a black leather tassel skirt and shades as she strutted to the Michelin-starred eatery

Naomi has a big event coming up in South Africa, co-hosting the Mandela 100 festival, which features the likes of Beyonce and Coldplay on the bill.

Meanwhile the model has admitted she only started working out in her 40s.

Posing for the cover of Vogue Arabia for the first time last month, she said: 'I got into working out about a year ago.'

She laughs when asked to clarify that she in fact began going to the gym only in her Forties, saying: 'I don’t do machines, I do circuit training – and I like it.'

Naomi, once famed for her fiery temper, also spoke about the calming influence of yoga.

She said: 'I wanted to find out more about the origins of yoga. It’s something I’ve never done before. Only two people knew I was there, in case of an emergency.”

====== 347 ========

HILARY DUFF ENJOYS A RARE SOLO OUTING IN LA BEFORE HER FIRST THANKSGIVING WITH BABY BANKS

She welcomed her second child, a daughter named Banks Violet, nearly one month ago.

And Hilary Duff didn't appear to be fazed with transitioning into newborn mom life once again when she stepped out to run some errands in Studio City, Los Angeles.

The 31-year-old actress kept things casual in a beige colored sweatshirt and a pair of jeans.

All taken care of: Hilary Duff appeared as if she had mom life under control when she stepped out for a solo errands run in Los Angeles on Wednesday to pick up some juice

Hilary appeared to be a woman on a mission, rolling up her sleeves as she made a quick stop to pick up a large bottle of apple juice.

The beauty teamed the look with a pair of distressed denim jeans that had cut outs on one knee and on the other leg of her upper thigh.

She completed her look with a pair of white sneakers and accessorised with a $1600 Gucci cross-body bag.

Got it under control! Hilary appeared to be a woman on a mission, rolling up her sleeves as she made a quick stop to pick up a large bottle of apple juice

Gorgeous: Hilary appeared makeup free for the outing and had her blonde locks styled out naturally

Hilary appeared makeup free for the outing and had her blonde locks styled out naturally.

The Younger star's outing comes as she's been sharing snippets of what her mom life at home is like.

On Wednesday afternoon she posted a cute Instagram snap showing her cradling Banks in a wrap baby carrier as she prepared for Thanksgiving.

'The bean helping me in the kitchen... getting ready for Thanksgiving.' she captioned the selfie.

Earlier, Hilary took to the social media to post a video of her messy kitchen, assuring fans that it never looked that messy before welcoming the newborn.

Snug: Hilary cradled baby Banks close to her chest as she prepared for Thanksgiving

Little baby girl: Hilary will mark the one-month birthday since having Banks later early next week on Sunday 25th

It's tough! Hilary took to the social media to post a video of her messy kitchen, assuring fans that it never looked that messy before welcoming the newborn

'Who's kitchen looks like this?' she rhetorically asked her 10.5 million followers.

'I really hope I'm not alone cause it's just a da*n disaster.'

Hilary will mark the one-month birthday since having Banks later early next week on Sunday 25th.

The beauty welcomed the bub into the world alongside her on-and-off musician boyfriend Matthew Koma. It's his first child.

The new addition makes Hilary a mother of two, as the actress also shares six-year-old son Luca with her ex-husband Mike Comrie.

====== 348 ========

BRAD PITT DENIES HE IS TO BLAME FOR DETERIORATING HOMES IN NEW ORLEANS

Brad Pitt (pictured Tuesday) has denied that he is to blame for the deterioration of the New Orleans homes his foundation, Make It Right, built for victims of Hurricane Katrina

Brad Pitt has denied that he is to blame for the deterioration of the homes his foundation Make It Right built for victims of Hurricane Katrina.

Pitt's foundation sought to build 150 homes in the Lower Ninth ward of New Orleans that were storm-safe, solar-powered, and 'green' for the price of $150,000 in 2007.

Two residents of Pitt's homes filed a lawsuit in Orleans Parish Civil District Court in September accusing Make It Right of unfair trade practices, breach of contract and fraud.

Pitt said on Tuesday that the claims made against him personally should be dismissed.

He claimed he 'does not owe a duty to third parties', according to court documents obtained by The Blast.

The court document also says that Pitt 'cannot simply be lumped together with other defendants and held liable for alleged conduct in which he is not even alleged to have participated'.

The actor's attorney argued that the residents' claims of 'negligent infliction of emotional distress' can’t be brought up unless they suffered physical injuries, which they have not.

In September, two residents filed a lawsuit against Pitt's foundation, claiming that the charity sold them 'defectively and improperly constructed homes'.

Scroll down for video

A lawsuit was filed by two New Orleans Lower Ninth ward homeowners in September. It accused the charity of unfair trade practices, breach of contract, and fraud. A home built by Make It Right is seen above

Many of the houses, including the one pictured above, are falling apart, with roofs caving in, wood rotting and walls collapsing

'While the citizens of the 9th Ward are grateful to Brad Pitt they were forced to file this lawsuit because the Make It Right Foundation built substandard homes, that are deteriorating at a rapid pace while the homeowners are stuck with mortgages on properties that have diminished values,' Ron Austin, the attorney representing the Lower Ninth Ward residents, said in a statement to NBC News.

'We have filed to make Make It Right make it right,' he added.

The project started in 2007 and by 2016 had spent $26.9million building 109 homes before construction was halted.

Although Make It Right stopped about 40 homes short of its goal, it led the most visible recovery effort in New Orleans.

The homes were priced at an average of $150,000 for residents looking to resettle.

But residents have complained that the homes aren't what they signed up for with many houses falling apart, some with rotting wood, plumbing issues, and roofs caving in.

The complaint said Make It Right 'fraudulently deprived homeowners of their right to pursue legal actions under Louisiana's New Home Warranty Act' because the charity knew about issues with the homes' building materials and designs - but never alerted homeowners.

The lawsuit claimed that the plaintiffs' homes were 'deficiently constructed and built' with 'defective products' that led to damage such as the growth of mold and air quality problems due to improper ventilation.

Pitt (right, in August 2007) said on Tuesday that the claims made against him personally should be dismissed. He claimed he 'does not owe a duty to third parties', according to court documents

Photos taken by Dailymail.com show another devastated property built by the charity

According to a suit filed by the residents, the homes had structural problems, electrical problems and plumbing issues

According to the suit, the homes also had structural problems, electrical problems, plumbing issues and rotten wood.

The complaint said that Make It Right arranged for engineer inspections of the homes 'allegedly brought in specifically to render a report on the state of the Make It Right homes'.

But homeowners were never given access to those reports.

The lawsuit asserted that engineers found issues in the homes but the charity didn't inform homeowners of the problems, citing a portion of the foundation's 2013 tax filing which accounts for $4.3million in 'warranty and repair liabilities'.

It added that Make It Right gave homeowners a nondisclosure agreement and documents that bound them to arbitration before agreeing to making repairs.

But, the lawsuit said the charity didn't explain these documents to the homeowners, 'fraudulently' obtaining signatures 'on agreements that would deprive homeowners of important legal rights while the homeowners are under duress'.

The complaint said the homeowners noticed problems with the home as early as 2013 but they thought Make It Right would sort out the repairs.

'The homeowners are gravely concerned that their homes, which suffer serious structural problems, will not last as long as their mortgages,' the complaint says.

Make It Right subsequently sued the architect of the homes in mid-September.

The foundation filed a lawsuit saying architecture firm John C. Williams Architects LLC's designs led to $20million in damages.

Make It Right is pointing the finger at Williams Architects, which the charity says it gave $4million dollars to produce architectural drawings for the sustainable homes.

The lawsuit, filed by attorney Victor J. Franckiewicz, Jr in Civil District Court, says Williams Architect's defective designs led to a myriad of problems with the homes and that repairing damage inflicted by rain and humidity would cost millions.

From 2007 to 2016 Make It Right spent $26.9million and built over 100 'green' homes sold for $150,000

'The homeowners are gravely concerned that their homes, which suffer serious structural problems, will not last as long as their mortgages,' the complaint says. A finished Make It Right home pictured above in 2009 Brad Pitt and Ellen in New Orleans for Make it Right in 2014

Make It Right said that Williams was responsible for failures to waterproof the structures, many of which had insufficiently sloped roofs, and failed to repair the homes.

The foundation claimed to be left in the dark about the defects.

One derelict seven-year-home became so rotted, it was demolished at the insistence of neighbors in June.

In 2015, Williams was granted permission to replace the roof of that home that still had to be tore down.

In June, Williams acknowledged that one or two of the Make It Right homes 'may be falling apart'.

It also alleged that Williams Architects knew their designs 'did not meet Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design platinum certification requirements, but failed to disclose that fact,' and the firm 'failed to communicate critical information' and 'suppressed the truth', according to WDSU.

At the time, Make It Right pledged to 'continue to work proactively with homeowners in the Lower 9th Ward'.

====== 349 ========

JESSICA ALBA IS ELEGANT IN AUTUMNAL TONES AS THE ACTRESS DOES SOME EARLY CHRISTMAS SHOPPING

She recently shared a Christmas card over her family -in matching festive attire- over a month before the holiday.

And Jessica Alba seemed to be ahead of the curve when it came to dressing up her home too, with the Sin City actress seen checking out Christmas decorations in Target on Wednesday - a day before Thanksgiving.

The 37-year-old looked seasonally appropriate in an outfit comprised of autumnal tones.

Early bird: Jessica Alba was seen checking out Christmas decorations in Target on Wednesday - a day before Thanksgiving

The mother-of-three wore a brown coat over a cream blouse for the outing.

On her lower half the Dark Angel star wore a pair of wide-legged olive green pants and slipped her feet into flat, tan shoes.

Jessica wore her straight brunette tresses loose and with a center part as she inspected various decorative items.

Falling into style: The 37-year-old looked seasonally appropriate in an outfit comprised of autumnal tones

On trend: The mother-of-three wore a brown coat over a cream blouse for the outing

Well-heeled: On her lower half the Dark Angel star wore a pair of wide-legged olive green pants and slipped her feet into flat, tan shoes

On Tuesday, Alba revealed she already has her 2018 family Christmas cards ready.

The whole family wore coordinated looks for the occasion.

However this year's card was different for the entrepreneur, with her new ten-month-old son Hayes also making the cut.

Family-of-five! Jessica showcased her effortless beauty in an adorable 2018 family Christmas card with Cash Warren and her three kids Honor, 10, Haven, seven, and ten-month-old Hayes

2017 Christmas card: 'We like the have the family in front of the fireplace, wearing matching pajamas. We do the same thing every year, except this is our first year we're a family of five'

Mama! Jessica frequently takes to social media to share her past sweet family photos in their matching holiday ensembles (pictured 2015)

'I'm a creature of habit,' she told People regarding her collaboration with Shutterfly.

'We like the have the family in front of the fireplace, wearing matching pajamas. We do the same thing every year, except this is our first year we're a family of five.'

And this couldn't be more than true, with Jessica frequently taking to social media to share her past sweet family photos in their matching holiday ensembles.

And it makes complete sense why Jessica is already on top of her Christmas plans - getting ready to host her annual 80-person family dinner party.

'Good for folding?' Alba made sure to Insta-story a clip of her youngest child, son Hayes Alba, playing with the holiday card

'His favorite thing to do with all items!' The 10-month-old cherubic child pushed his copy of the holiday card around the house

'Growing up, we did a similar thing, but it was more like styrofoam plates and plastic forks and find any place where you can sit,' she told the publication.

'It was just chaos. As an adult, I loved the idea of all our family getting together, but I wanted to have a nice sit-down dinner, where everyone got to eat at the table, and spend that time.'

Spearheading all the cooking with her father Mark, she added that it turns out 'like a wedding'.

Love: Jessica has been married to Cash Warren, 39, for over ten years

Easy baby: 'He's such a sweet little butterball,' she said regarding her latest addition Hayes, ten months

'We rent tables, chairs, linens, dishes. It's like a wedding every Christmas. It's the one time a year that Cash's family and my family get together and get to see each other and see the kids. It's really nice.'

And while things seem under control in the Alba-Warren household, the actress revealed the one thing she wasn't looking forward to.

'He's such a sweet little butterball,' she said regarding her latest addition Hayes, ten months.

'He's gonna be into opening presents and trying to put ribbons in his mouth, which I'm not looking forward to. He loves tearing things and opening things and throwing things.'

Jessica welcomed Hayes on New Year's Eve 2017 with her husband Cash Warren, 39.

The couple are also parents to daughter Honor Marie, 10, and Haven Garner, seven.

====== 350 ========

BUSY PHILIPPS FLASHES 'ACCIDENTAL UNDER BOOB' IN BIKINI PHOTO FROM HER DISNEY CRUISE VACATION

She might be Busy Tonight but on Wednesday, Busy Philipps was showing some skin and taking conference calls on the beach.

The talk show host flaunted her abs and some underboob on Instagram in a new bikini shot from her Disney Cruise Vacation.

The mother of two is with her family on the high seas and documenting every step of the trip on social media.

Showing some skin: Busy Philipps flaunted her abs and some underboob on Instagram in a new bikini shot from her Disney Cruise Vacation on Wednesday

'Actual photo of me on a conference call this afternoon,' she captioned the shot.

In the photo, the blonde is standing on a sandy shore in front of a turquoise sea with a Corona in one hand and a cell phone in the other.

The 39-year-old wore a pair of black and red sequin Minnie Mouse ears and dressed in a red bikini top that flashed some underboob.

The actress called attention to the sliver of skin with the hashtag, #accidentalunderboob.

Whoops: The actress called attention to the extra sliver of skin with the hashtag, #accidentalunderboob

Happiest place on earth: Joining the Dawson's Creek star on the floating amusement park are her daughters, five-year-old Cricket and 10-year-old Birdie, as well as her husband Marc Silverstein

Accessorizing: Like a champ, Busy has been rocking her festive sequin Minnie Mouse ears during the whole trip

Busy is enjoying a vacation while her E! talk show goes on hiatus for the holiday.

Joining the Dawson's Creek star on the floating amusement park are her daughters, five-year-old Cricket and 10-year-old Birdie, as well as her husband Marc Silverstein.

In one social media photo, Busy appeared to have replaced her husband of 11 years with a new man.

Cricket, Birdie and Busy looked overjoyed as they took the air on the boat deck with none other than the King of the Mouse House himself, Mickey.

Second time around: Last year the family went on their first Disney Cruise together and decided to go back for round two

Having a blast: Cricket, 5, couldn't be bothered with her mom while she was pampered at the princess spa

The leggy blonde has been nonstop sharing her trip with her 1.4M Instagram followers.

And, this isn't her first rodeo with a Disney Cruise and the world traveler has apparently learned a thing or two about navigating the high seas.

'So if you guys read my book or you followed me a year and a half ago, you know about my Disney cruise adventure, you know that I spent a billion dollars on the WiFi,' she in an Instagram video.

Adding: 'I basically posted for seven days straight last time, and this time I asked if there was any way they would give me free WiFi and they said yes, so don't worry.'

Lesson learned: 'So if you guys read my book or you followed me a year and a half ago, you know about my Disney cruise adventure, you know that I spent a billion dollars on the WiFi'

Perks: This year the star asked for free WiFi and has been delighting her social media following ever since climbing aboard

True to her word, fans feel like they're practically on vacation with the family of four as Busy shares all the fun.

'Found her favorite guy at the beach,' the star captioned a photo of Cricket with Frozen character Olaf.

It's not all about the kids, though. Aside from Corona's on the beach, it seems Busy has found plenty of adult fun on the ship.

'Look at what we found on the Disney Cruise,' she said on social media after spotting some tequila. 'Oh, hi Casa Dragones. This is going to be a good time on the Disney Cruise.'

====== 351 ========

WIZARDS OF WAVERLY PLACE'S DAVID HENRIE SENTENCED TO 2 YEARS PROBATION FOR LOADED GUN ARREST AT LAX

Former child star David Henrie avoided a year in prison by cutting a plea deal over his September 10th arrest for bringing a loaded M&P Shield 9mm pistol to LAX Airport.

The 29-year-old gun enthusiast pled no contest Wednesday to possessing a weapon, but the LA City Attorney dropped the other charges of carrying a loaded firearm and carrying a concealed firearm - according to TMZ.

The Cali-born, Arizona-raised actor was sentenced to two years probation, 20 days of community labor, pay fees/fines, and enroll in a gun safety course.

Grateful on Thanksgiving! Former child star David Henrie avoided a year in prison by cutting a plea deal over his September 10th arrest for bringing a loaded M&P Shield 9mm pistol to LAX Airport (pictured in 2016)

'I love Arizona!' The 29-year-old gun enthusiast pled no contest Wednesday to possessing a weapon, but the LA City Attorney dropped the other charges of carrying a loaded firearm and carrying a concealed firearm (pictured in 2013)

'I take responsibility for the situation at LAX today,' David - who boasts 10.5M followers - tweeted two hours after being released from jail.

'I unintentionally brought my legally owned gun which is registered in my name to the airport. I am so sorry for any trouble it caused, but I am appreciative of TSA's efforts in implementing the safety laws that are in place to protect our beautiful country.

'More than anything I am humiliated and embarrassed that this even happened. But am thankful to the TSA, LAPD and all involved today for their kindness and their professionalism during this process.'

'More than anything I am humiliated': The Cali-born, Arizona-raised actor was sentenced to two years probation, 20 days of community labor, pay fees/fines, and enroll in a gun safety course (pictured in 2016)

'I take responsibility for the situation': David tweeted an apology two hours after being released from jail on September 10

'The fruit of our love is starting to show': Henrie certainly has a lot to be thankful for this Thanksgiving as he's expecting his first child - a girl called Pia Philomena - with his wife of 19 months, former Miss Delaware Maria Cahill (pictured October 7)

Henrie certainly has a lot to be thankful for this Thanksgiving as he's expecting his first child - a girl called Pia Philomena - with his wife of 19 months, former Miss Delaware Maria Cahill.

The Max & Me star will soon edit his feature directorial debut This Is the Year - in which he also plays Sebastian alongside Jeff Garlin, Gregg Sulkin, and Vanessa Marano.

The How I Met Your Mother alum famously portrayed Selena Gomez's onscreen big brother Justin Russo in the Disney Channel magical sitcom, Wizards of Waverly Place, from 2007-2012.

'Can't wait to share this movie with all of you!' The Max & Me star will soon edit his feature directorial debut This Is the Year - in which he also plays Sebastian (pictured November 14)

====== 352 ========

HANDMAID'S TALE STAR YVONNE STRAHOVSKI STEPS OUT AFTER GIVING BIRTH

She welcomed a baby boy with her husband Tim Loden in mid-October.

And on Friday, The Handmaid's Tale star Yvonne Strahovski made her first public appearance post birth in Los Angeles.

The 36-year-old looked radiant, showing off her incredible post-pregnancy figure in a chic black frock and matching trench coat while mingling with guests at Hulu's holiday party.

One hot mama! The Handmaid's Tale star Yvonne Strahovski looked radiant in a chic black frock, as she stepped out to attend a red carpet event in Los Angeles on Friday, a month after giving birth

For the night out, Yvonne opted for a monochrome calf-length dress featuring a bold white panel down one side.

The Australian actress teamed the look with a matching black silk trench coat and perspex black studded heels.

She added a statement black clutch and styled her blonde locks in a deep side part and soft waves.

Chic: The blonde beauty teamed the calf-length number with a black silk trench coat and perspex black studded heels

Beaming for the camera, the first time mother showed off a radiant complexion and a neutral makeup palette.

Yvonne recently gave birth to her first child with husband Tim - a baby boy - whose name is yet to be revealed.

The blonde beauty confirmed the happy news via an Instagram post on October 16.

Social: Yvonne added a black statement clutch and styled her locks in a side part and soft waves. Pictured with Elisabeth Moss, 36

Dazzling: Elisabeth highlighted her slender figure in a black sequinned blazer dress and styled her blonde locks out and in relaxed waves

Yvonne uploaded a sweet photo of her bundle of joy and wrote in the caption: 'My heart has melted into a billion pieces a thousand times already❤️.'

'We have been blessed with the greatest joy of our lives, our baby boy. Welcome to the world Peanut, your parents love you beyond measure and you are already my little dream boat. My heart has been stolen!' she added.

In the photo, the Dexter star is seen cradling her precious newborn on her chest and gazing down adoringly at him.

'Welcome to the world Peanut, your parents love you beyond measure': Yvonne shared a sweet picture of her bundle of joy to Instagram mid last month

It is unknown the exact date when the baby was born.

Yvonne announced she was expecting her first child with Tim in May this year after the pair tied the knot in 2017.

The Aussie actress rose to fame thanks to her role as Serena Joy Waterford in The Handmaid's Tale.

====== 353 ========

REAL WORLD STAR DANNY ROBERTS, 41, REVEALS HE HAS BEEN HIV POSITIVE FOR SEVEN YEARS

The Real World star Danny Roberts has revealed he is HIV positive.

The 41-year-old, who appeared on the MTV reality show in 2000, told EW he has been living with the virus for more than seven years.

'The reason I want to share this story is that I spent so long battling and beating myself up for my own misconceptions and bigotry,' he said.

'My second coming out': The Real World star Danny Roberts has revealed he is HIV positive

'It is difficult to admit the negative feelings you had about a set of people and state of being based on made-up stories.'

During his time on The Real World: New Orleans, Roberts was dating an officer from the military, who had his face blurred whenever he appeared on screen, as the Don't Ask, Don't Tell policy prevented gays from openly serving.

Roberts described the moment he was diagnosed around 2011, when he called his doctor after passing out and waking up in a pool of blood; his doctor had discovered Roberts' had HIV at a check-up the previous week and was preparing to tell him in person the following day, but was forced to break the news then and there over the phone.

'My first reaction was shock. Then I was angry, then lots of denial,' he recalled.

Reality star: The 41-year-old, who appeared on the MTV reality show in 2000, told EW he has been living with the virus for more than seven years (pictured 2001)

'Those early years were very difficult and very lonely. You don’t know whom to turn to have conversation and people don’t know what to say. It’s not something that people have experience with.

'There’s also the potential likelihood of massive judgments about what behaviors led to this and what kind of people this happens to.'

He added: 'The last thing I ever want is pity. I just want people to know and be aware. I knew so little myself so I get it.'

Roberts' HIV has been 'undetectable' since his diagnosis, which means it is almost impossible — but still non-zero — for him to transmit the virus.

'Medicine has come so far — it’s incredible where we are and where we could be not far in the future,' he continued.

Nevertheless, he said living with HIV is like 'having a crappy old cell phone with a huge app eating your energy.

'I had so many negative feelings I was forced to face,' he concluded. 'I’ve been on such a journey to overcome that. In a way, this has really been like my second coming out.'

====== 354 ========

ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER SERVES HARDWORKING CALIFORNIA FIREFIGHTERS BREAKFAST

Firefighters have been working round the clock battling the most destructive blaze in California history.

And Arnold Schwarzenegger gave back to the hardworking service men and women as they continued fighting the Camp Fire on Thursday.

The former governor of California, 71, served firefighters and volunteers breakfast from inside a food truck in Chico, California during a visit to tour the devastation.

Showing his support: Arnold Schwarzenegger gave back to the hardworking service men and women as they continued battling the Camp Fire on Thursday

Arnold could not hide his pride for the hardworking service men as he handed out plates of food to the workers.

The former politician even helped prepare the food, mixing together a soup-like dish inside a giant pot over a stove.

Arnold was clearly moved by the dedicated efforts of the firefighters, and the destruction residents were facing.

The actor will be donating $100,000 to the firefighters' fund, according to KCRA.com.

Touched: Arnold was clearly moved by the dedicated efforts of the firefighters, and the destruction residents were facing

Lending a hand! The former politician even helped prepare the food, mixing together a soup-like dish inside a giant pot over a stove

Doing his part: Schwarzenegger happily handed food out during his tour of the city

'They're true heroes. I mean, I play heroes in the movies, but it's movies. These are the true action heroes,' he said, according to the site.

Arnold continued to heap praise upon the firefighters on Twitter, where he recalled visiting the devastated town.

Wearing a USA hat and standing in front of a structure damaged by the blaze, he recalled seeing how the community came together to support one another in time of the tragedy.

Special shout-out: The Redding Fire Department tweeted, 'Oh hey Mr Schwarzenegger Thank you for coming by the #campfire incident base for the troops! #buttestrong'

American spirit: 'Everyone is just coming together, this is the spirit of America, this is what makes us the greatest country in the world,' he said

'Everyone is just coming together, this is the spirit of America, this is what makes us the greatest country in the world,' he said.

The Camp Fire that began two weeks ago has scorched an area roughly the size of Chicago, burned down more than 13,000 homes and killed at least 81 people, with the number increasing daily.

Hundreds of people are unaccounted for - a list that's constantly changing and has spread confusion about the ultimate number of victims.

It has become the deadliest U.S. wildfire in at least a century, and has destroyed the town of Paradise, population 27,000, and surrounding communities.

====== 355 ========

PIERS MORGAN GETS INTO TWITTER SPAT WITH ARIANA GRANDE AND HER MOTHER AMID ROW OVER LITTLE MIX PIC

Piers Morgan got into a war of words with Ariana Grande and her mother Joan on Twitter on Wednesday, as they locked horns over his criticism of Little Mix.

The Good Morning Britain presenter, 53, had attacked the British girl group for a nude promo shot, which features the singers posing with insults painted on their skin - an idea which Piers charged they 'stole' from country stars the Dixie Chicks.

However, Ariana's mother was quick to weigh in on the micro-blogging site, as she shot back: 'Honestly what is wrong with you @piersmorgan? Didn’t your mother ever teach you, if you have nothing nice to say, don’t say it!'

Social media spat: Piers Morgan locked horns with Ariana Grande and her mother Joan on Twitter on Wednesday, as they argued over his criticism of Little Mix

She then referenced the British journalist's recent criticism of Ellen DeGeneres, who he dubbed' a 'hypocrite' after she marked International Men's Day by sharing a montage of male celebrities.

Continued Joan: 'You came for @TheEllenShow yesterday which was disgraceful, she is an angel. @LittleMix today, did you ever hear of paying homage? And..well never mind.'

Undeterred, Piers pressed on, taking a shot at her 25-year-old singer daughter as he responded: 'Hi Joan, my mother taught me to speak my mind & never be afraid to express honestly held opinion.

Accusation: Good Morning Britain presenter Piers had accused Little Mix of stealing their naked videoshoot idea from the US country band Dixie Chicks

'Ellen's a hypocrite - and as for Little Mix, I'd just prefer they use their talent to sell records rather than their nudity. As your own daughter does...!'

Joan then replied, in part: 'We all know in America that everyone has the right to speak their minds, but trash talk for the sake of denigrating women doing their jobs is at best misogynistic and at worst undignified and ignorant!'

However, Piers said that the stars of Little Mix - Jesy Nelson, Jade Thirlwall, Leigh-Anne Pinnock and Perrie Edwards - were to blame for the feud as they'd previously insulted him during a radio interview.

'The only ‘trash talk’ came from Little Mix who called me a ‘tw*t’ on the radio,' Piers told Joan. 'I suggest you call THEIR mothers to tell them to wash their mouths out with soap.'

Hitting back: Ariana's mother Joan, pictured above with the singer in 2010, took to the micro-blogging site to hit back at the British journalist's criticism of the chart-topping girl band

Ariana soon jumped into the row, taking her mother's side as she also defended the women he'd criticised, including herself.

'Ellen is an incredible & kind human being,' the No More Tears Left To Cry singer wrote.'I use my talent AND my sexuality all the time because i choose to.

'women can be sexual AND talented. naked and dignified. it’s OUR choice. & we will keep fighting til people understand. i say this w all due respect but thank u, next.'

She added: 'Also @piersmorgan, i look forward to the day you realize there are other ways to go about making yourself relevant than to criticize young, beautiful, successful women for everything they do.

Not forgotten: Undeterred, TV personality Piers blamed Little Mix for starting the war of words

'i think that’ll be a beautiful thing for you and your career or what’s left of it.'

Continuing the spat, Piers replied: 'Hi Ariana! How lovely to hear from you so soon after your mother. Of course, women can do what they like - but if they/you use nudity to sell records to impressionable young female fans, I'll continue to call them/you out on it. All due respect, but thank YOU. Next...'

Defending his career, the TV personality continued: 'Now now, young lady - my career's doing just fine thanks.

'For the record, I criticise/praise everyone - male, female, gender-fluid. Indeed, I've written columns praising AND criticising you, and you deserved both.'

Jumping in: Ariana soon jumped into the row, taking her mother's side as she also defended the women he'd criticised, including herself

Despite the tense exchange, Piers thanked Ariana for their spat making him a trending topic on Twotter, before inviting the star onto Good Morning Britain.

He wrote: 'Since I've got your attention @ArianaGrande - want to come on @GMB on Monday to settle this like mano-to-womano? We can bring our mothers too, if you like.'

The fallout started when Piers accused Little Mix of stealing their naked videoshoot idea from the US country band Dixie Chicks.

The X Factor winners had stripped nude to promote their new single Strip, with insults painted on their skin in the tasteful black-and-white shot.

Snap: During the exchange, Ariana shared a post that Piers had uploaded earlier in the day

But Piers upped the ante of his feud with the girl group as he tweeted a photo of of the Dixie Chicks in a similar naked shoot on the cover of Entertainment Weekly back in 2003.

He wrote: 'Hey @LittleMix - when are you going to admit you stole this idea from @dixiechicks?'

The former X Factor winners are championing body positivity with Strip's powerful message, encouraging people to embrace their own skin and ignore what others might say. Little Mix's representative has declined to comment.

It comes after Piers accused Little Mix of using sex to sell albums - prompting Jesy Nelson to call him a 'silly t**t'.

And Piers has now fired back at the pop princess in typical fashion, demanding an apology from the outspoken Essex singer during his GMB appearance on Tuesday.

Making a statement: Little Mix had posed naked with words they'd been called by trolls written on their skin (pictured), which they are using to promote body confidence in their fans

Done before? Piers upped the ante of his feud with the girl group as he tweeted a photo of of the Dixie Chicks in a similar naked shoot on the cover of Entertainment Weekly back in 2003

The presenter took umbrage to Jesy's comments during an interview with BBC radio host Nick Grimshaw, playing the segment aloud for GMB viewers to hear.

Discussing whether the Little Mix girls were offended by Piers' negative reaction to their nude image, Jesy said: 'Of course not, he's a silly t**t.'

Nick exclaimed: 'Language! You can't swear, Jesy.

'Apologies for offensive language on BBC', she laughed, with her bandmate Leigh-Anne Pinnock chiming in, 'The word she was looking for was idiot'.

The feud continues: It comes after he hit back at Little Mix's Jesy Nelson after she called him a 'silly t**t', demanding an apology from the singer during his GMB appearance on Tuesday

Unimpressed: The presenter, 53, took umbrage to Jesy's comments during an interview with BBC radio host Nick Grimshaw, playing the segment aloud for GMB viewers to hear

Referring to Jesy's slur on Monday morning's edition of GMB, Piers declared: 'Oh Jesy you let yourself down, love. When you're doing a campaign against doing rude words, it's probably better not to use rude words on the radio about me.'

He added: 'I apologise to anyone who is offended by the language Little Mix used about me.

'Little Mix, I think you need to make a public apology during your campaign to root out bad language from public discourse.

'Grimmers apologised to me on their behalf, I didn't hear Jesy apologise. Our viewers are perfectly [entitled] to know the scale of bad language that Little Mix used.'

Hitting back: Referring to Jesy's slur on GMB, Piers declared, 'When you're doing a campaign against doing rude words, it's probably better not to use rude words on the radio about me'

Feud: He continued, 'Grimmers apologised to me on their behalf, I didn't hear Jesy apologise. Our viewers are perfectly [entitled] to know the scale of bad language that Little Mix used'

Piers also vowed to strip off himself should the girls ever agree to come into the studio for an interview.

This comes after Pier insisted Little Mix's shoot to promote their new single Strip is not an empowering statement - but a 'cynical attempt to sell records'.

The TV host also edited his own face onto a muscular body which had been daubed with some of the insults that have been directed at him, including 'arrogant' and 'patronising'.

Piers argued that stripping off is not empowering and is instead the girl band's 'cynical attempt' to promote the track.

What'll it be, girls? Piers, seen with co-host Susanna Reid, also vowed to strip off himself should the girls ever agree to come into the studio for an interview

Owning it: Piers recreated Little Mix's Strip photoshoot by editing his face onto a nude body that was adorned with insults he'd been called

The picture was later followed by a video in which Little Mix and a group of women all danced in their underwear, with the clip aiming to encourage women to accept their 'flaws' and be happy with the bodies they have.

Piers argued that female celebrities are using nudity to make money but are then claiming their nakedness is female empowerment.

He produced his own mocked up version of the image in a light-hearted attempt to empower men with his own naked body.

He explained: 'I have an equally empowering image that I want to share with the nation. Very empowering.

'I think every man in Britain is now going; a) I want a body like that, and b) I should adorn myself in offensive words, although I find most of those words complimentary.'

Debate: Piers argued that posing nude isn't about being empowering but is the girl band's 'cynical attempt to sell records'

He then said that celebrities that pose nude and claim to be feminists are 'conning' their fans.

Piers continued: 'Why don’t we stop pretending that getting your kit off is feminist empowerment?

'Kim Kardashian does this, Emily Ratajkowsi, all of them. They're all making millions and billions of dollars out of conning the world that getting their kit off is somehow empowering.'

To debate the issue GMB welcomed on Kerry Katona, who praised Little Mix for 'raising awareness' about body confidence issues.

She said: 'I have four young girls, I think it’s amazing what they’ve done. Since social media’s been around there’s so much trolling, there’s self-harming and the suicide rate has gone up massively.

'They have a huge platform of young girls out there who are going to watch this video and go ''It’s ok to be ok with my body.''

Confident: In the video the band (pictured with rapper Kamille) pose in their underwear while singing about being happy with their bodies

====== 356 ========

CHRIS HEMSWORTH WAS SNUBBED TWICE BY LEONARDO DICAPRIO

He's one of the biggest names in Hollywood.

But Chris Hemsworth was apparently snubbed twice by a certain A-list star during a press tour in Japan several years ago.

Chris' personal trainer and friend Luke Zocchi told Nova 96.9's Fitzy & Wippa on Thursday that the actor was awkwardly brushed off by Leonardo DiCaprio in January 2014 during the promotional campaign for Thor: The Dark World.

Scroll down for video

'He marched straight past him!' Chris Hemsworth (left) was apparently snubbed TWICE by Leonardo DiCaprio (right) in Japan during a press tour several years ago

After Nova's Sarah McGilvray confessed she was rejected by Leonardo, 44, when she asked for a photo, Luke couldn't resist in sharing Chris' own frosty encounter with the Titanic star.

'I have a very good story about DiCaprio. Can I drop it? Poor Chris! We were on a press tour, we were promoting Thor 2 and we were in Japan,' Luke began.

'We were staying at the Ritz Carlton and DiCaprio was there with his whole posse. There was like 10 of his crew there. And Chris was reaching out to his publicist going, "Get Leo, I want to have a beer with him", and then he never replied.'

Snubbed! Chris' personal trainer and friend Luke Zocchi (pictured) told Nova 96.9's Fitzy & Wippa on Thursday that the actor was awkwardly brushed off by Leonardo in January 2014

Luke added that Leonardo dealt Chris another blow when he failed to acknowledge him in the hotel foyer several days later.

'Two days later I remember we were standing in the lobby, it was slow motion, I remember Chris waving, I remember turning, and then DiCaprio marching through the lobby and he just walks straight past!' Luke said, laughing.

'I turned to Chris and I'm just like, "Oh this is so awkward right now", and he's like, "Oh God". He just stood there waving.'

Rise to the top: After departing Australian soap opera Home and Away in 2007, Chris (pictured with his wife Elsa Pataky) landed his breakthrough role in 2011 superhero movie Thor

Chris' rise to Hollywood's A-list has been well documented over the years.

After departing Australian soap opera Home and Away in 2007, he landed his breakthrough role in 2011 superhero movie Thor.

He reprised the character in 2012's The Avengers, Thor: The Dark World a year later, and Avengers: Age of Ultron in 2015.

====== 357 ========

KIM KARDASHIAN'S MAKEUP ARTIST MARIO DEDIVANOVIC WAS SAYING 'OKURRR' BEFORE CARDI B

Cardi B fans are familiar with the rapper's fondness for the nonesense word 'okurrr'.

According to 35-year-old Kardashian makeup artist Mario Dedivanovic, though, the 26-year-old Bodack Yellow star definitely didn't come up with it.

In a new interview with The Cut, Mario — who has worked with Kim Kardashian for years, and even collaborated on a makeup collection with her — insists he was saying 'okurrr' years ago.

Did you know? Kim Kardashian's makeup artist Mario Dedivanovic says he has been saying 'okurrr' for 'years'

Popular: Many people know the word as one of Cardi B's signature catchphrases

Cardi B is well known for purring out the word 'okurrr,' in which she rolls the R's for dramatic — and sometimes comedic — effect.

But the rapper, who is still relatively new to fame, didn't just dream it up on her own.

'So, people don’t really know this, but I started saying "Okurrrrrrrr" years ago,' he said.

And he's not the only one, either — one of the Kardashians was known for saying it before Cardi B came along, too.

'Then Khloé Kardashian made it a thing, then Cardi B,' he said. 'I did get it from somewhere, though. I just can’t remember where. Khloé and I always joke about it.'

It doesn't seem like he has any hard feelings toward Cardi B, even if he does want to set the record straight.

Cardi, meanwhile explained in an episode of The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon, why she says 'okurrr.'

'You know it's like a cold pigeon in New York City,' she said. '[It's like] 'Okayyyy?!,' but...'okayyyy' is played out.'

Talking like friends: Mario said he's been saying it for years, and Khloe Kardashian picked it up from him

Natural: Mario has worked on a makeup collection with Kim — though he admitted his favorite beauty look for a woman is a fresh face with no makeup

Speaking to The Cut, Mario also talked about the fact that his real name isn't Mario (though he wouldn't reveal what it actually is), his love of nonfiction, and his favorite beauty product.

Despite his love of cosmetics, though, he admitted: 'My favorite is a completely bare face with nothing on at all. It inspires me and makes me happy.'

He also said he's not really a fan of beauty 'trends'.

'I hate the idea of following trends. It should be about what works best for you,' he said.

'For example, a big trend now is the whole glossy, glass skin thing. I love it and actually teach it. It’s great for an artist to know how to execute it. But it’s not new or realistic for women at home to do every day.

'A glitter lip looks very cool for an Instagram moment. But you don’t want to swallow glitter. And if you do it and you see me, just give me an air kiss because I don’t want glitter on me that I can’t get rid of for the next four days.

'When I work, I always just come up with a look in the moment that I feel looks beautiful on the face I’m working on.

'Do whatever you love and makes you feel great, and, most importantly, don’t forget to wash it off before bed!'

====== 358 ========

THE SURPRISING JOBS ACTOR BEN MENDELSOHN WAS FORCED TO DO DURING A CAREER SLUMP A DECADE AGO

He's the Hollywood journeyman known for his roles in blockbuster films, including The Dark Knight Rises and Star Wars: Rogue One.

But just 10 years ago, critically-acclaimed actor Ben Mendelsohn was forced to work low-paying jobs to pay the bills.

He washed dishes at a restaurant in Sydney's Bondi and was also employed at a Brumby's Bakery during a career slump, according to the Herald Sun on Wednesday.

Scroll down for video

'You don't expect that in this business': Stars Wars actor Ben Mendelsohn, 49, has revealed he was forced to wash dishes at a Sydney restaurant only 10 years ago during a career slump

Reflecting on his incredible reversal of fortune since then, Ben said: 'It's been extraordinary. But that's what has been very sweet about it - you don't expect that in this business.'

He added: 'I still drive around and look back on a lot of years where things were leaner. I am still happily spun out by it.'

Ben has a history of playing villains in films, but recently said he doesn't overthink the roles he plays.

Struggles: He's known for his roles in blockbuster films, including The Dark Knight Rises and Star Wars: Rogue One, however things haven't always been easy for the Australian-born actor

In a recent interview with The Project, the 49-year-old said his penchant for playing bad guys has turned out 'alright' for him so far.

However, he said he's 'got a couple more feathers' in his cap and would like to play more diverse characters in the future.

Meanwhile, Ben is returning to the big screen as the Sheriff of Nottingham in the new film, Robin Hood.

Role: Ben is returning to the big screen as the Sheriff of Nottingham in the new Robin Hood film

The film also stars Academy Award winner Jamie Foxx.

Jamie told The Project that Ben was a very disciplined and dedicated on set and was 'whooping our *ss' throughout the production.

'He was not playing around. Even when they said cut, we were still like, "Should we approach [him]?"' he said.

====== 359 ========

JESSICA SIMPSON'S KIDS 'HUGGED EACH STUFFED ANIMAL' AFTER COMING HOME AFTER CALIFORNIA EVACUATION

California has been engulfed in fire for the last several weeks, and a variety of celebrities were forced to evacuate their homes due to the blaze.

Jessica Simpson was one of them, and fled her palatial Calabasas abode less than two weeks ago with the flames threatened her neighborhood.

The 38-year-old singer opened up about the experience of her family returning to their still-standing home in an interview with People.

Telling the tale: Jessica Simpson fled her palatial Calabasas abode less than two weeks ago when flames threatened her neighborhood

Jessica's family was one of the lucky ones, and her family knew it when the returned after the evacuation order was lifted.

Once they got home, 'Maxwell and Ace both ran to put on their favorite costume, then hugged each and every stuffed animal they have one by one, every time saying, "We are so lucky,"' she revealed.

The pop star shares her two children with husband Eric Johnson, 39, and explained that the actions taken by their children were ones they preach.

Palatial: The 38-year-old singer opened up about the experience of her family returning to their still-standing home in an interview with People

Flee: Jessica's family was one of the lucky ones, and her family knew it when the returned after the evacuation order was lifted

'I’d like to think Eric and I show our children gratitude through our example every day,' Simpson explained.

'I have learned that it is almost impossible to teach your kids anything you don’t live yourself.

'We are constantly grateful for the blessings we have been given.'

Values: “I’d like to think Eric and I show our children gratitude through our example every day,” Simpson explained

Jessica's home was evacuated due to the Woolsey fire, which spread from Thousand Oaks through Calabasas, Malibu, and other nearby neighborhoods.

Three people died in the blaze and over 1,600 structures were burned.

It was just one of three fires that ignited in California on the same, which also included the Hill Fire and the Camp Fire.

While the Hill Fire was put out before much damage was done, the Camp Fire killed 81 and hundreds are still missing.

====== 360 ========

ALESSANDRA AMBROSIO AND NEW BOYFRIEND NICOLO ODDI TAKE OFF FOR THE THANKSGIVING HOLIDAY

Alessandra Ambrosio is getting ready for the Thanksgiving holiday, and was seen leaving Los Angeles on Wednesday with her boyfriend Nicolo Oddi on a private jet.

While their destination is unknown, Ambrosio, 37, took to her Instagram story on Wednesday afternoon, sharing a photo from the jet.

Ambrosio shared a photo from the plane, as they were passing by a rainbow in mid-flight.

Taking off: Alessandra Ambrosio and boyfriend Nicolo Oddi head out of town on a private jet before the Thanksgiving holiday

Ambrosio was dressed in a festive red and white striped sweater with slightly-ripped light blue jeans and white Converse All-Star shoes.

Oddi was clad in all black, with a black sweater, black jeans and black Converse All-Stars, while carrying a black coat.

Ambrosio was also carrying a jacket of her own, along with a large brown bag.

Leaving town: Ambrosio was dressed in a festive red and white striped sweater with slightly-ripped light blue jeans and white Converse All-Star shoes

Rainbow in flight: Ambrosio took to her Instagram story to share a photo from the plane, as they were passing by a rainbow in mid-flight

Ambrosio had been engaged to businessman Jamie Mazur in 2008, although they never got married and their 10-year engagement ended in March 2018.

They have two kids together, 10 year old Anja and six year old Noah, although the kids didn't join their mom on this holiday excursion.

Ambrosio started dating Oddi in March, an Italian model and fashion designer.

Winter is coming: Before her private flight out of town, Ambrosio also took to Instagram to show off a sweater as she prepares for winter.

Before her private flight out of town, Ambrosio also took to Instagram to show off a sweater as she prepares for winter.

'Getting in the mood for ... Thanksgiving !,' she said, adding the hashtags #holidayweather and #sweaterweather.

The tan-colored sweater she was wearing featured teepee designs plus cowboys and Indians as well.

Staying warm: 'Getting in the mood for ... Thanksgiving !,' she said, adding the hashtags #holidayweather and #sweaterweather

She also took to her Instagram story to share another photo that showcased her 'perfect braid,' courtesy of @Marajo_hair.

She also added her excitement that it's, 'finally sweater weather' as she gets ready for the holidays.

The model also tagged photographer Stewart Shining and hair stylist Dominick Pucciarello.

====== 361 ========

HILARY DUFF CAN'T STOP SMILING AS SHE TREATS SON LUCA TO ICE CREAM DURING FAMILY OUTING

She is an adoring new mother of two.

And Hilary Duff melted hearts everywhere as she posted an extra precious video of her baby daughter Banks sneezing.

'Bless you! Bless you!' The actress, 31, exclaimed in the sweet clip she posted to her Instagram stories on Thursday.

Hello petal: Hilary Duff melted hearts everywhere as she posted an extra precious video of her baby daughter Banks sneezing

Baby Banks was snuggled up in a soft, floral print onesie as she spent some quality, mommy-and-me time with Hilary.

Ever since welcoming baby Banks into the world last month with her boyfriend Matthew Koma, the actress has been showering fans with delightful snaps of the newest addition to her family.

But even though she has been over the moon over the latest addition, that doesn't mean everything has been picture perfect.

Hilary documented the exhaustion of motherhood that same day, posting a barefaced selfie as she closed her eyes.

So sweet: Banks sneezed in a playful and heart-melting video posted by her mother

Wiped out! The actress posted a bare-faced selfie as she declared she was 'Mom beat'

'Mom beat,' she wrote in the frame.

She also showed off her messy, disorganized kitchen full of items scattered about the countertops.

Yet the actress insisted it hasn't always been this way, ensuring to add in writing in the video, 'It wasn't like this before Banks!!'

Oh no! The actress could not believe how messy her kitchen was in another Instagram video

Adoring mom! Ever since welcoming baby Banks into the world last month with her boyfriend Matthew Koma, the actress has been showering fans with delightful snaps of the newest addition to her family

'Who's kitchen looks like this? I really hope I'm not alone, because it is just a d*mned disaster.'

It's already been a month since Hilary and her boyfriend Matthew welcomed Banks, their first child together, into the world.

The new addition makes Hilary a mother of two, as the actress also shares six-year-old son Luca with her ex-husband Mike Comrie.

====== 362 ========

TAMMY HEMBROW SHOWS OFF HER INCREDIBLE FIGURE IN A BLUE SWIMSUIT

Tammy Hembrow has declared that she will only be wearing bikinis for the rest of summer.

And the Instagram model made good on her promise on Thursday, enjoying yet another day at the beach in a skimpy blue swimsuit.

The mother-of-two, 24, slipped into a triangle two-piece that showcased her incredibly flat and toned tummy.

Another day, another skimpy bikini! Tammy Hembrow shows off her incredible figure in a blue swimsuit after flaunting her famous derriere in a G-string on the beach

The blonde beauty was posing on a pristine beach on the Gold Coast, where she lives with her two children.

'Don’t expect me in anything other than a bikini till next year k bye,' she wrote alongside a photo she posted to Instagram.

Tammy recently courted criticism from trolls who accused her of undergoing a 'Brazilian butt lift'.

And on Tuesday, she sent her legion of detractors a very cheeky message as she soaked up the sun at Surfers Paradise.

She offered onlookers a cracking view of her famous behind as she squeezed her derrière into a pair of tight denim shorts at the beach.

Cracking view! Tammy Hembrow showed off her famous derrière on the beach in Surfers Paradise on Tuesday

Tammy, who claims her bottom became fuller, rounder, perkier and bigger as a result of weight training, put on quite the display while pulling on her daisy dukes.

Elsewhere the buxom blonde showcased her perfectly gym-honed posterior in a pair of white cheeky-cut bikini briefs.

Last month, Tammy sent a defiant message to her haters by sharing a similar photo of her famous derrière.

She showcased her impossibly toned behind while posing at the beach in a very skimpy orange bikini.

'Life's a beach,' she captioned the sizzling snap.

The upload came after trolls accused the YouTube star of having 'butt implants' last month.

Despite Tammy insisting her physique is the result of a strict diet and exercise routine, some critics refuse to believe her bottom is 'real'.

Bottoms up! Tammy also showcased her impossibly toned behind while posing at the beach in a very skimpy orange bikini last month

In October, one follower asked on Instagram: 'Did you have a Brazilian butt lift?' which prompted another to write: 'Your booty silicon.'

A similar comment read: 'Butt implant surgery lol.'

Tammy defended herself against these claims, however, by responding: 'Das a 100% natural booty'.

In just a few years, Tammy has completely transformed her backside and achieved an incredible waist-to-hip ratio.

But as her social media following has grown, so have accusations that she has secretly undergone 'booty surgery'.

She recently told Cosmopolitan magazine that being accused of getting butt implants is 'frustrating'.

'I don't want people to think they can't achieve a booty with hard work,' she said.

'It just creates a false mindset that it's not achievable and surgery is the only option, which is completely wrong,' she added.

====== 363 ========

VENUS WILLIAMS VISITS THE EMPIRE STATE BUILDING AFTER CAR CRASH SETTLEMENT

Venus Williams was all smiles while visiting the Empire State Building in New York City on Wednesday, just one day after it was reported she settled a wrongful death lawsuit related to a fatal car crash in Florida.

The 38-year-old tennis star participated in the ceremonial lighting of the Empire State Building in support of Small Business Saturday, an annual shopping holiday that encourages people to patronize small businesses the Saturday after Thanksgiving.

Williams looked chic in a an off-the-shoulder top featuring spaghetti straps, and she paired the black and white patterned blouse with black skinny jeans.

Venus Williams participated in the ceremonial lighting of the Empire State Building on Wednesday in support of Small Business Saturday

The 38-year-old tennis star posed for photos outside on the observation deck

The athlete topped off the look with a pair of slouchy knee-high boots in black suede, and she wore her long brown hair loose around her shoulders.

While participating in the lighting ceremony, Williams posed for photos with her hands resting on the lever that turns on the lights.

She was also gifted a small replica of the skyscraper featuring a plaque with her name on it.

When it was time to visit the Empire State Building's open-air 86th floor observation deck, she threw on a knee-length tan coat with a fur-lined hood.

Last week, Williams reached a settlement with the family of a man killed in a Florida car crash she was involved in last year.

TMZ reported that the tennis pro and 78-year-old Jerome Barson's estate reached an agreement for an undisclosed amount in the wrongful death lawsuit last week.

Video footage captured the grisly accident near Williams' home in Palm Beach on June 9, 2017.

Williams looked chic in a an off-the-shoulder top featuring spaghetti straps

The tennis star paired the black and white blouse with black skinny jeans and slouchy knee-high boots

While participating in the lighting ceremony, Williams posed for photos with her hands resting on the lever that turns on the lights

Barson's wife was driving a sedan that T-boned with Williams' SUV after the 37-year-old was forced to stop in an intersection.

Barson died 13 days after the crash, but neither driver was charged as police determined both had the right of way.

Police had initially said Williams was to blame for the crash because she failed to yield the right-of-way.

At the time, Williams told police she was trying to get across the junction but traffic was backed up and she had to slow down to a crawl, leaving her stranded in the middle of the junction as the light turned green in Barson's direction.

The late Jerome Barson was initially hospitalized for serious head injuries after the crash. His wife Linda was taken to hospital with injuries including a cracked sternum and multiple broken bones.

Photos from the crash scene show the Barsons' vehicle crashed on the side of the road, with the front of the 2016 Hyundai Accent completely crumpled in on itself.

The airbags appear to have deployed in the front, and the back windows are shattered.

She was gifted a small replica of the skyscraper featuring a plaque with her name on it

Williams seemed to be in good spirits ahead of Thanksgiving, after it was reported on Tuesday that she reached a settlement with the family of a man killed in a car crash she was involved in

Jerome Barson (left) died after the sedan his wife Linda (right) was driving T-boned Venus Williams' SUV in an intersection near the tennis pro's home in Palm Beach on June 9, 2017

The Barson family's wrongful death suit filed less than a month after the crash sought unspecified damages for loss of companionship for both Linda Barson and their family, loss of earnings, pain and suffering, and medical and funeral expenses.

Both parties reportedly paid their own attorneys' fees.

Over the summer Barson's estate filed a motion to subpoena all phone devices Williams had in her possession at the time of the crash, claiming she was using one shortly before it occurred.

Williams denied access to her devices and called the request a 'wild goose chase,' arguing that handing over her cell would allow 'unfettered and unlimited access to anything and everything on her phone.'

According to court records, the plaintiff's motion for forensic inspection was approved by a judge on August 31.

A filing stipulated that Williams could pick and expert of her own choosing to complete the probe no later than October 8.

However, 10 days later the Barson estate filed a proposal for a settlement, which was reached on November 15.

Williams had previously pointed out that the family made no suggestion that she was on her cell phone at the time of the incident in their court filing but instead referenced background data usage on the device.

Williams told police she was trying to get across the junction but traffic was backed up and she had to slow down to a crawl, leaving her stranded in the middle of the junction

Linda Barson was driving with her husband in the passenger's seat when the crash happened

Photos from the crash scene show the Barsons' vehicle crashed on the side of the road, with the front of the 2016 Hyundai Accent completely crumpled in on itself

AT&T provided records which showed that during the one hour period commencing at 12:27 p.m., Williams' phone uploaded 881,646 bytes of data and downloaded 4,292,331 bytes of data.

Additionally, during the one hour period commencing on 12.46 p.m., Williams uploaded 12,424 bytes of date and downloaded 11,204 bytes of data.

The accident took place at approximately 1:11 p.m.

AT&T phone records, however, only show that the phone was passively uploading and downloading content before the crash, William's court filing says.

'However, Plaintiff fails to point out, at the bottom of the chart, AT&T notes that, "The AT&T network constantly communicates with internet enabled devices when powered on",' court papers say.

But had Barson family claimed that they needed to determine whether the reference data usage on Williams phone actually occurred during the seconds leading up to and/or including the subject crash, and whether such data was used passively on her phone due to an open running application, or if it was instead the result of her actively using her phone.

'In the event the phone was wiped clean subsequent to the crash, the plaintiff's expert may need to examine the data stored on the cloud account to which the phone was backed up,' court documents from June read.

Williams argued that showing her phone was using data doesn't necessarily show she was using her phone.

The August 31 motion ordering Williams to allow a forensic investigator to look at her devices is pictured in full above

Ten days after Williams was ordered to turn over her devices, the plaintiffs asked to settle

====== 364 ========

MICHAEL AVENATTI WILL NOT BE CHARGED WITH FELONY DOMESTIC ASSAULT, LA DISTRICT ATTORNEY SAYS

Michael Avenatti will not be charged with felony domestic assault and his case has been sent to the city attorney's office for misdemeanor consideration, the Los Angeles District Attorney's Office has announced.

The lawyer was arrested and booked on a felony charge after he allegedly struck girlfriend Mareli Miniutti during an altercation at his apartment last Tuesday.

Avenatti, 47, who has vehemently denied all allegations, released a statement on Wednesday afternoon saying he is 'grateful for justice.'

'I am thankful that the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office has rejected filing any charges against me after a fair, careful and thorough investigation. I have maintained my innocence since the moment of my arrest. I wish to thank my supporters, friends, family, attorneys, and clients for the outpouring of support they provided. This Thanksgiving, I am especially grateful for justice,' he said.

Miniutti, an Estonian actress who had been dating Avenatti since October 2017, filed for a restraining order in Los Angeles on Monday and submitted a court declaration with photos of her alleged injuries.

In this September 2018 photo, attorney Michael Avenatti, right, poses with Mareli Miniutti for a photo at a party in New York

Avenatti, 47, who has vehemently denied all allegations, released a statement on Wednesday afternoon saying he is 'grateful for justice'

A hearing has been set for December 10.

In court documents submitted on Monday first obtained by The Blast, Miniutti claimed he assaulted her after an argument about money turned physical.

Miniutti said the altercation left her with scratches on the side of her leg and 'red marks' on her left side.

She also claimed the November 13 incident was not the first time Avenatti, 47, has been violent with her.

On Tuesday a photo emerged of the duo posing up for cameras on a night out in New York in September of this year.

According to the three-page declaration, the two had been arguing in the master bedroom that evening when Avenatti began to 'berate' her and called her an 'ungrateful f***ing b***h.'

Miniutti said she then exited the room and went to the guest room to sleep alone, but he eventually followed her, 'calling her names' before forcefully hitting her in the face with pillows.

Miniutti has submitted photos to the court showing her injuries after Michael Avenatti allegedly hit her in the face with pillows and dragged her across the floor

Miniutti claims Avenatti yanked her by the wrist to pull her out of bed before dragging her across the floor

Miniutti's Instagram account was switched to private mode after her restraining order filed at Santa Monica Court House emerged

She claimed Avenatti said, 'Do not disrespect me. You don't get to sleep in my house tonight,' before reaching for her wrist in an attempt to pull her out of bed.

Avenatti, however, slipped and lost his grip and she used the opportunity to send texts to a friend, according the documents.

'After a few moments, [he] yelled at me, and grabbed the phone out of my hand and screamed, "this is my phone!" and put it in his pocket.'

Miniutti said Avenatti remained close to her 'at all times' and she became 'afraid' for her safety and screamed for help towards a window.

That's when Avenatti allegedly tried to pull her out of bed again, this time succeeding and dragging her on the floor of the apartment and out to the hallway while she was only in her underwear and a t-shirt.

Miniutti tried to get help by ringing a neighbor's doorbell but Avenatti allegedly pulled back her inside and blocked the door with his body to prevent her from leaving.

'I screamed and asked [him] to return my phone. [He] refused to return my phone,' the declaration states.

She then ran back to the guest bedroom to put pants on, but he quickly followed, giving her no time to put on shoes, she claimed.

Miniutti eventually managed to bypass Avenatti, exited the apartment, and made a run for the elevator as he chased after her.

A family confirmed to Dailymail.com that Michael Miniutti (pictured) was married to Mareli but he was unclear on their current status

She has appeared in movies starring several big names including Rebel Wilson and Liev Schreiber

Blink and you will miss: Mareli Miniutti (center) is seen in her brief appearance in Ocean's 8 - as star Anne Hathaway walks behind

While the two were in the elevator, he allegedly began to beg, 'Don't do this Mareli, don't involve them.'

Avenatti finally returned her phone when she approached front desk personnel, who called security.

Miniutti, who had been living with Avenatti since January, also alleged that he struck her during another incident in February this year.

'At that time, I was living with [Avenatti] in a different apartment in the same building. [He] had been drinking, and he became angry at me. [He] pushed me out of the apartment into the public hallway, where I hit my head against a door across the hallway,' she claimed.

Avenatti, she said, then threw her shoes at her, hitting her in the leg.

She has claimed Avenatti has 'a history of being very verbally abusive and financially controlling' towards her and has 'vehemently opposed' her wish to earn a living outside of Hollywood.

'[He] has made promises to "take care of me" financially and sometimes fails to follow through,' she says in papers.

Miniutti's husband has since spoken out about the alleged assault.

When asked about Miniutti's claims that she was assaulted by Michael Avenatti, Michael Miniutti told DailyMail.com: 'No man has a right to raise a hand to a woman. Period.

Asked if was still married to the actress, Miniutti, Programme Director at Mansion House Consulting based in New York City, responded, 'No comment.'

But his brother Brian Miniutti, confirmed to Dailymail.com that Michael was married to Mareli but was unclear about their current status.

'There is nothing more powerful than video evidence. NOTHING! I will be fully exonerated,' Avenatti tweeted in the early hours of Tuesday

He later added that posts that could quash her claims had been shared on her Instagram account that was made private after her restraining order filed at Santa Monica Court House

Avenatti again called the claims 'bogus' after her identity was revealed Monday

He then went on to list what he said were 'many of the false 'facts' TMZ reported' in the initial story about the allegations

Avenatti hit back against the allegations on Tuesday and reiterated that he was innocent

'I honestly don't know what the status is on that.'

When asked if Mareli was still living with his brother in New York's Financial district, he said: 'to my knowledge she is not.'

He added: 'If I'm talking with him it's family stuff, not anything about her.'

Avenatti hit back against the allegations on Tuesday and said he was innocent.

'I did not do what I have been accused of doing,' he tweeted. 'I look forward to ALL of the facts and evidence coming to light. I will be vindicated.'

He then went on to list what he said were 'many of the false 'facts' TMZ reported' in the initial story.

Avenatti noted that TMZ initially – and incorrectly – stated that he abused his estranged wife Lisa.

'Completely false and also a violation of California law to report at DV victim's name,' he wrote.

The lawyer then claimed that TMZ had seen video that many of its allegations regarding the incident were false.

'TMZ is a disgrace – they have no journalistic standards,' he wrote.

Avenatti has claimed he will be 'fully exonerated' by a now-deleted Instagram post his accuser shared in the hours after he allegedly assaulted her.

Avenatti hit back against the allegations on Monday, denying he struck her near his ritzy Los Angeles apartment and claimed he would be vindicated by video evidence.

He claims his accuser had posted something on Instagram in the hours after the incident that showed her claims were 'bogus.'

Avenatti appears to be referring to videos posted on Minuitti's Instagram story - shared in the hours after Avenatti was taken into custody last Wednesday, according to Hill Reporter.

They show a carefree Miniutti laughing and apparently bruise-free - although she may have concealed her injuries with make-up.

'There is nothing more powerful than video evidence. NOTHING! I will be fully exonerated,' Avenatti tweeted in the early hours of Tuesday.

He tweeted again hours later, revealing he has authorized the release of security camera footage relevant to the incident saying, 'I want the truth to be known - all of it.'

====== 365 ========

EVA MENDES AND RYAN GOSLING TREAT THEIR DAUGHTERS ESMERALDA AND AMADA TO AN ICE CREAM OUTING

They are a Hollywood power couple with a family-first mentality.

And Eva Mendes and Ryan Gosling proved they can balance both as they were spotted treating their daughters Esmeralda, four, and Amada, two, to ice cream in Los Angeles on Wednesday

The actress, 44, and actor, 38, had their hands full as they carried their children and the frozen dessert during the evening outing.

Doting mom: Eva Mendes,44, was spotted treating her daughter Esmeralda, four, to ice cream in Los Angeles on Wednesday

Daring to impress, the couple looked every inch the movie stars even in the most casual of ensembles.

The gorgeous thespians fell in love while working together on the 2012 film, The Place Beyond The Pine.

And seven years after getting together, the couple are stronger than ever.

A source recently told Us Weekly Ryan is still head over heels in love with the Hitch actress.

Super dad: And Ryan Gosling, 38, joined them with daughter Amada, two

Sweet treats: They enjoyed a frozen dessert at a local ice cream shoppe

'Ryan is completely infatuated with Eva,' a source told the site. 'His main goal is to make her happy.'

The couple are considered one of the Hollywood's most private couples.

'Ryan wants to keep his private life out of the public's reach,' a source explained.

And Ryan appeared on Jimmy Kimmel Live! last month as he revealed that his daughters believe he's an astronaut.

Full load: The actors had their hands full as they carried their children and the frozen dessert during the evening outing

As he plays first man on the moon Neil Armstrong in his upcoming flick, First Man, his two kids visited him on set and may have thought his space suit meant a change in career.

Gosling explained: 'They came to set. They came on this day where I was shooting a launch scene, so I was in the space suit and pretending to launch.

'I think they think I’m an astronaut now. My oldest said the other day, she pointed to the moon and said, "That’s where you work, right?"'

Last month his longtime partner and mother to his children, Eva Mendes, made the same revelation to Entertainment Tonight.

'They loved it! And they now think Poppy's an astronaut,' the 44-year-old actress said. 'We haven't corrected them yet, we're just like "Cool!"'

====== 366 ========

HILARY SWANK REVEALS HOW CARING FOR HER AILING FATHER PREPARED HER FOR WHAT THEY HAD FILM

With two Best Actress Oscar wins to her credit, Hilary Swank could be gunning for a third little gold man with her new film What They Had, which opened last month.

The actress plays a woman who returns home to deal with her ailing mother suffering from Alzheimer's (Blythe Danner) and stubborn father (Robert Forster).

She revealed in a new interview with Deadline that she drew on some of her own family drama for the role, and how she took three years off to take care of her father.

Real-life drama: Hilary Swank teases how her real-life family drama helped inform her new role in What They Had

'For me, going through taking care of my dad and his lung transplant... I took three years off,' Swank said.

'He was fighting for his life, and time became irrelevant at that point,' she added. 'You do everything you can to try and gain his health back, and it was close to my heart, for sure.'

Swank also added that she came across the script for What They Had, by first-time writer-director Elizabeth Chomko, after her father was on the mend.

Taking time off: She revealed in a new interview with Deadline that she drew on some of her own family drama for the role, and how she took three years off to take care of her father

'Once my dad was better, and more independent and able to get around on his own and do his meds by himself, and he looked in the clear, in going back to work, I didn't want to be anywhere that was so far away that I couldn't get back within three hours,' Swank, 44, added.

'We shot in Chicago, which was like a three-hour flight, and it was a kind of perfect venture back into everything,' Swank added.

'Like I said, the subject matter being so close to home as in what we experienced as a family, in a different way, but still, a health crisis,' she added.

Hilary and Michael: Hilary Swank stars alongside Michael Shannon as on-screen siblings in What They Had

What They Had comes from a first-time writer-director, Elizabeth Chomko, with Swank adding in her interview with Deadline's Pete Hammond that she has almost 'made a career on taking a chance on first-time directors.'

Swank won her first Oscar for Boys Don't Cry, written and directed by first-time filmmaker Kimberly Peirce, adding how she enjoys finding new talent.

'I remember that moment when someone gave me that moment and believed in me, so I'm a big-time advocate of trying to find new talent and trying to bring it to the screen.'

First-time director: What They Had comes from a first-time writer-director, Elizabeth Chomko, with Swank adding in her interview with Deadline's Pete Hammond that she has almost 'made a career on taking a chance on first-time directors'

On the red carpet: Swank won her first Oscar for Boys Don't Cry, written and directed by first-time filmmaker Kimberly Peirce, adding how she enjoys finding new talent

She added her next film is from a first-time director as well.

'The next movie I've done, I Am Mother, is another first time director, Grant Sputore,' she added.

'It's something that I love to be able to do,' she said. 'Yes, it's risky, because it's an added risk to something that's already risky.'

First-time director: 'The next movie I've done, I Am Mother, is another first time director, Grant Sputore,' she added

====== 367 ========

LAURYN HILL APOLOGIZES AFTER TURNING UP FOR PARIS GIG TWO HOURS LATE AND PERFORMING FOR 30 MINUTES

It's been two decades since her iconic Miseducation album dropped.

And French fans who waited that long to hear it live were furious on Tuesday night when she turned up two hours late, before performing for just 30 minutes.

Belgian fans only had it slightly better over the weekend, receiving a 40-minute performance after she reportedly arrived to that show 1 hour and 40 minutes late.

Sorry: Lauryn Hill apologized to fans on Tuesday after turning up for her Paris gig two hours late and performing for just 30 minutes

The 43-year-old, who is somewhat notorious for being tardy or indeed absent from scheduled appearances, apologized to fans via Twitter.

'Dear, Brussels and Paris, We apologize for the late start,' she told her 205k followers. 'We’re working through the kinks of moving production to Europe, with time changes and curfew restrictions, we’ve had a few challenges in these early shows.

'With deep gratitude I come on stage to perform an album that means so much to so many. Every day we push past inertia to present something sincere.

'Thank you for coming, supporting and for your patience and understanding. We're excited about this entire European run, and looking forward to the show tomorrow!

Track record: The 43-year-old, who is somewhat notorious for being tardy or indeed absent from scheduled appearances, apologized to fans via Twitter

She concluded: 'Merci Beaucoup de votre amour' (Thank you so much for your love).

The North American leg of the The Miseducation Of Lauryn Hill 20th Anniversary Tour was filled with setbacks, reschedules and cancellations.

Her recent Twitter feed is a collection of apologies and excuses for the bad luck that befell the tour so far.

On Oct 12 she apologized to Nashville, claiming her concert there was cancelled because Hurricane Michael had prevented her band and crew from flying; she revealed she tried to wrangle local musicians to fill in but couldn't in time.

On September 29 she apologized to Houston, cancelling her gig there after straining her voice due to a cold.

====== 368 ========

DUCHESS OF CORNWALL RUBS SHOULDERS WITH THE STARS AT HER FIRST EVER FASHION SHOW

The Duchess of Cornwall rubbed shoulders with the stars as she attended a charity fashion show on Wednesday evening.

Camilla, who donned a striking black velvet dress with white embroidered detailing, met designer Julien Macdonald, who was showcasing his collection at Lancaster House in aid of the National Osteoporosis Society.

The royal, who is the president of the society and was without her husband Prince Charles, happily posed for a photo with a group of Julien's models decked out in his daring designs.

The Duchess of Cornwall met with Julien Macdonald ahead of his fashion show held to benefit the National Osteoporosis Society at Lancaster House, London, on Wednesday night

Camilla, who was in a black velvet dress, happily posed with the designer and a group of his models all decked out in his daring looks

Camilla spoke briefly with Boyzone singer Ronan Keating at the reception held at Lancaster House, along with Dame Shirley Bassey, Abbey Clancy and her husband Peter Crouch also in attendance

Broadcaster Angela Rippon was warmly greeted by the royal, animatedly chatting and laughing as they shook hands at the reception

The 71-year-old spoke with Boyzone star Ronan Keating at the event, shaking hands at the reception ahead of the show.

Camilla was also seen sharing a laugh with broadcaster Angela Rippon, whom she greeted warmly.

Strictly Come Dancing judge Craig Revel Horwood also acted as compere for the evening, hosting a live auction with all proceeds raised going directly to the charity.

Camilla kept her look low-key with the simple black dress adding a touch of glitter with her sparkling drop earrings and a bejewelled clutch bag.

The royal has been a the president of the society since 2001, following the deaths of her mother and grandmother as a result of the condition.

Strictly Come Dancing Judge Craig Revel Horwood (far right) was on hand to compere the event, hosting the auction which raised proceeds for the charity. Pictured, the TV personality with Julien Macdonald, Claire Severgnini and the Duchess of Cornwall

Chat show host Alan Carr grinned broadly as he posed with the designer, Ronan Keating and his wife Storm while mingling ahead of the show

Dame Shirley Bassey, Abbey Clancy and her husband Peter Crouch also attended the glamorous ball.

Presenter Alan Carr grinned broadly for the cameras as he enjoyed the reception ahead of the show spending time with Strictly couple Janette Manrara and Aljaz Skorjanec, and Ronan's wife Storm Keating.

Welsh designer Julien was awarded an OBE in the Queen's Honours list in 2006 for his services to fashion.

Welsh designer Julien, seen shaking hands with Camilla, was awarded an OBE in the Queen's Honours list in 2006 for his services to fashion

====== 369 ========

BEBE REXHA SHOWCASES HER SARTORIAL FLAIR IN THREE GLAM ENSEMBLES IN PARIS

She's no stranger to putting her best fashion foot forward during her lively performances.

And Bebe Rexha certainly earned her style stripes in three glamorous outfits as she visited Voltage FM, NRJ radio studios and TPMP TV show to promote her album Expectations in Paris, France, on Wednesday.

For one ensemble, the singer, 29, took a walk on the wild side in a leopard print shirt, thick waist belt and glossy sheer leggings.

Impressive: Bebe Rexha certainly earned her style stripes in three glamorous outfits as she visited Voltage FM, NRJ radio studios and TPMP TV show in Paris, France, on Wednesday

Upping the style ante, the I Got You hitmaker boosted her height with black platform boots.

The blonde bombshell took her look up a notch as she accessorised with extravagant diamond dangle earrings.

Bebe exuded sophistication as she slipped her curvaceous figure into a multi-patterned shirt dress for her second outfit of the day, complete with thigh-high stilettos.

Working it! The singer, 29, is no stranger to putting her best fashion foot forward during her lively performances

Fierce: For one look, Bebe took a walk on the wild side in a leopard print shirt, thick waist belt and glossy sheer leggings

All in the details: The blonde bombshell took her look up a notch as she accessorised with extravagant diamond dangle earrings

Opting for a more casual appearance, the New Yorker sported a teal tee with form-fitting leggings, which accentuated her pert derriere.

The Meant to Be songstress styled her short 'do into effortless waves while her beauty was enhanced with purple eyeshadow and winged eyeliner.

Bebe has become known for her edgy sense of style, catchy pop tunes and stellar songwriting skills since she burst onto the music scene in 2013.

But the singer has revealed she once sold perfume to Rihanna, just one year before writing the singer's number one track The Monster.

Impressive: Bebe exuded sophistication as she slipped her curvaceous figure into a multi-patterned shirt dress for her second outfit of the day, complete with thigh-high stilettos

Commanding attention: The Meant to Be songstress styled her short 'do into effortless waves while her beauty was enhanced with purple eyeshadow and winged eyeliner

Speaking on Good Morning Britain, the blonde beauty discussed her humble beginnings in the music industry, where she served the Umbrella hitmaker in a department store in 2012.

One year later the pair's paths would collide when Bebe's track The Monster was recorded by Eminem and Rihanna, topping the UK and US singles charts.

She said: 'I actually sold perfume to Rihanna, funnily enough.

'Saks Fifth Avenue, the Harrods of the US, she came to the counter with red lipstick, sunglasses on, I had no idea that a year later I would have written a Number 1 song she would have been on. It changed my life completely.'

All eyes on her: Opting for a more casual appearance, the New Yorker sported a teal tee with form-fitting leggings, which accentuated her pert derriere

Bebe has written several songs for other artists - including "Like a Champion" for Selena Gomez and Eminem and Rihanna's 'The Monster' before signing her own record deal.

She started off her career six years ago when she joined the group Black Cards as lead vocalist- which was formed by Fall Out Boy's Pete Wentz.

After two years in the group she left to pursue her solo career and also penned a plethora of high-profile songs for a-listers, including Eminem and Rihanna's Number one single - The Monster.

Inevitably her talents allowed her to be the star attraction and her single with rapper G-Eazy 'Me, Myself and I' shot to number one on the Billboard Hot Rap Songs chart late last year.

====== 370 ========

TEKASHI 6IX9INE RELEASED FROM PRISON JUST DAYS AFTER GRAND JURY INDICTED RAPPER ON RICO CHARGES

Daniel Hernandez, known to many as Tekashi 6ix9ine, had reason to be thankful this holiday after being released from federal prison.

Records show that Hernandez was discharged from the Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn on Wednesday, just days after a grand jury indicted him and five other members of the Nine Trey Gangsta Bloods on racketeering charges.

There is no transfer facility listed however for Hernandez, as is standard when a prisoner is released from the MDC.

The 22-year-old 'FeFe' rapper has not been cleared however in that racketeering case, and is still facing six counts and a sentence of 25 years to life in prison for his alleged involvement in multiple acts involving murder, robbery, extortion, and distribution of controlled substances.

DailyMail.com reached out to Hernandez's lawyer Lance Lazzaro over the holiday, who did not respond to a request for comment.

Scroll down for video

There are conflicting reports as to where Hernandez has been moved at this time.

TMZ first broke the story on Thursday and reported that the rapper was being housed in a facility for individuals who agree to cooperate with authorities.

Soon after DJ Akademiks, who worked with Hernandez on his now-delayed album Dummy Boy, offered up his own theory.

He posted a lengthy diatribe on his YouTube channel in which he conjectured that Hernandez may have been used as a pawn to get the other five defendants indicted on RICO charges.

The producer cited the decision by law enforcement officials to quickly indict the group and pointed out that it all happened after Hernandez disbanded his team, a move that would have made it harder to show the connection between members of the group.

That would ultimately make it difficult to prosecute on racketeering charges, so his belief is that prosecutors are hopsing hernandez will flip and therefore put him in a ghang-free facility.

The indictment alleges that the violent episodes involving 6ix9ine included the July shooting of a bystander in Brooklyn and the gunpoint robbery of one of the gang's rivals last spring.

Hernandez was initially held without bail after an initial appearance before a Manhattan federal magistrate judge Monday.

On Wednesday, defense attorney Lance Lazzaro said in a statement that his client was 'completely innocent of all charges.'

'An entertainer who portrays a "gangster image" to promote his music does not make him a member of an enterprise,' said Lazzaro.

'Mr. Hernandez became a victim of this enterprise and later took steps by firing employees and publicly denounced this enterprise through a morning show. Threats were then made against his life which resulted in this case being brought immediately.'

At Monday's hearing, Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Longyear pointed out that the rapper did not renounce his membership in the gang while appearing on a radio show last week.

He said Hernandez would have been arrested this week anyway, but the timetable was speeded up when authorities learned that he planned to go to a Connecticut casino where it would be harder to protect him from the threats.

Longyear said the threats were overheard on phone calls intercepted Saturday by investigators, including one in which an individual was heard saying that gang members wanted to 'super violate him.'

The prosecutor noted that violence seemed to surround the entertainer. He said 10 shots were fired into a Beverly Hills, California, home where he was filming a music video a week ago.

Hernandez had previously been kidnapped outside his Brooklyn residence as well in a bizarre incident this past July in which three men alleged robbed and beat him before making off with $750,000 worth of jewelry and $35,000 in cash.

His ex-manager Kifano Jordan, aka Shotti,Faheem Walter, aka Crippy, Jamel Jones, aka Mel Murda, Jensel Butler, aka Ish, and Fuguan Lovick, aka Fu Banga, were also indicted.

Prosecutors described Nine Trey as a 'criminal enterprise involved in committing numerous acts of violence, including shootings, robberies, and assaults in and around Manhattan and Brooklyn'.

'Members and associates of Nine Trey engaged in violence to retaliate against rival gangs, to promote the standing and reputation of Nine Trey, and to protect the gang's narcotics business,' the press release continues.

The group 'enriched themselves by committing robberies and selling drugs, such as heroin, fentanyl, furanly fentanyl, MDMA, dibutylone, and marijuana.'

Nine Trey was established in the early 90s at Rikers and operates in other areas of the country, including California.

In 2015, 6Hernandez pleaded guilty to one felony count of using a child in a sexual performance.

Authorities said the rapper had sexual contact with a 13-year-old girl when he was 18 and distributed videos of the incident online.

Hernandez recently pleaded guilty to disorderly conduct in Brooklyn Criminal Court in connection with a May traffic stop.

Last week the rapper revealed in an Instagram clip that he had dismissed his entire staff, including his manager and booker.

'I fired everybody on my team,' the Gummo artist said in the clip, imploring his fans that he was not going to be performing live in the near future, even in cases where he might be advertised.

'I don't got no manager, I got no booking agent, no PR, no publicist, I don't got nobody on my team - it's just me.'

====== 371 ========

MICHAEL B JORDAN ADMITS HE HAS SLID INTO PEOPLE'S DIRECT MESSAGES ONLINE

Michael B Jordan has heated up movie screens this year and was recently announced as GQ's Man of the Year.

But during a recent appearance on The Ellen Show, the 31-year-old revealed that he is in fact still single due to a busy work schedule - not least the current press tour he is on to promote his new movie Creed II.

'I've been working crazy, so I'm not really having the time to properly date,' the Black Panther star told both Ellen and Chrissy Teigen, 32, who was acting as a co-host for the talk show on Tuesday.

Revealed: Michael B Jordan, 31, revealed he was in fact still single while visiting The Ellen Show on Tuesday to promote his latest film, Creed II

Hilarious: Chrissy Teigen, 32, was acting as co-host for the day and asked Michael if he had ever slid into another person's direct messages

But both Ellen and Chrissy were unimpressed with Michael's excuse for why he was still single.

'We don't buy it,' Ellen responded. 'We all work hard but we all have relationship.

Handsome: Michael has been heating up the movie screens and was recently announced as GQ's Man of the Year

'You can, I mean so many people have crushes on [you]. I mean, it must be flattering. There are so many girls, like crazy about you.'

The interview got more personal as Chrissy unabashedly asked if the actor has ever 'hooked up' with anyone through direct messages.

'Yes, I have,' Michael replied. 'I have, I have, I have, I have. I'm human, I'm human. Not often, but yes, I have.'

This caused audience members to shriek in excitement at the possibility of Michael responding to their own direct messages online.

But Chrissy, who has been married to singer John Legend for five years, later clarified the question was for her assistant, not for herself.

'My assistant actually is going to try to DM you right after this,' she said. 'She's ready for kids, everything.'

Michael admitted he was not looking for anything quite that serious yet and responded: 'I’mma take my time and ease on into that.'

Funny: The DM conversation continued on Twitter later as Michael jokingly said he was still checking his messages

True: After that tweet, Ellen responded saying his inbox would be flooded with messages

Joining in: Even the Twitter account joined in on the conversation saying it would be sending Michael a DM

Fair: Instantly, many people responded to the conversation saying they would be sending a message to the single man

Upset: But one fan said she was constantly sliding into his DMs but never received a message back from Michael

The conversation continued after Michael left The Ellen Show when the talk show host tweeted a segment of the clip and informed people that sliding into his DMs might just be the way to the actor's heart.

'I'm classier than that...(checks DMs slowly)' Michael hilariously responded.

To which, Ellen said: 'You're DMs are gonna be lit.'

Everyone, including the person running Twitter's official account, were ready to send messages to Michael after it was revealed he just might read them.

'Don't have to ask us twice,' the Twitter account hilariously responded to Michael's tweet.

Another woman wrote: 'Challenge accepted'

But it appears there were some disappointed fans out there saying they never received any type of response from Michael after messaging him.

'ISSA LIE!' One upset woman wrote. 'I slide into your DMs faithfully! Where's my reply?'

Unfortunately, Michael's inbox is probably flooded with messages from fans so the chances of him responding to everyone is slim. But it doesn't hurt to try.

====== 372 ========

SYLVIA JEFFREYS SHARES THE SECRET WORKOUT EQUIPMENT BEHIND HER FANTASTIC FIGURE

The Today show star has previously boasted about the intense supermodel-approved workout she swears by.

And on Thursday, Sylvia Jeffreys shared a glimpse of her training efforts at Sydney's Lean Bean Fitness studio.

The 32-year-old TV presenter flashed her taut torso in a low-cut singlet and leopard-print sports bra as she focused on her core during the session.

Training like an Angel! Sylvia Jeffreys shares the secret to her fantastic figure during a Victoria's Secret model-approved workout in Bondi on Thursday

Taking to Instagram stories, the barefoot blonde demonstrated moves on a bosu-style balancing pod.

She joked about the difficulty of the seemingly simple tasks, writing 'hands up if you're battling' and 'hang in there'.

The Bondi-based studio's classes and methods are used by Victoria's Secret models, with angel Victoria Lee, 26, a long-time client of Sylvia's trainer Lizzie Bland.

Working on her core! The barefoot blonde demonstrated moves on a bosu-style balancing pod as she joked about her struggles during the exercise

Supermodel approved! The Bondi-based studio's classes and methods are used by Victoria's Secret models, with angel Victoria Lee (above) a long-time client of Sylvia's trainer Lizzie Bland

'Of course, Victoria's Secret models also attribute their impossibly lean limbs to diet and freakish genetics. But if this workout is good enough for an angel, it's got to be worth a try for us mere mortals,' Sylvia told 9Honey in February.

Sylvia has been training with Lizzie for two years.

On the company's website, Sylvia spruiks the brand: 'I've never enjoyed exercise more than I do right now. I'm a big fan of the Lean Bean style, which is strong, dynamic and fun, much like Lizzie herself.

'I've never enjoyed exercise more than I do right now': Sylvia, who has been training with Lizzie for two years, gives a glowing recommendation of the studio on the brand's website

'She knows how to whip some serious backside, but the results are always worth the sweat.'

Sylvia has previously revealed her health has become a priority for her as she continues to juggle the demands of her demanding television job.

The Nine reporter is married to Today weekend presenter Peter Stefanovic.

====== 373 ========

ALLISON MACK GETS RESTRAINING ORDER ON 'OBSESSED FAN,' 53

Former Smallville star Allison Mack has filed for a restraining order against a 53-year-old man, claiming that he has been stalking her while she is under house arrest in California on sex trafficking charges in connection to the NXIVM cult.

A judge has granted the 36-year-old Mack an order of protection against Thomas Sekera, of Ohio.

According to court documents obtained by the gossip site TMZ, Mack accused Sekera of lurking outside her parents' home near Los Angeles, where she has been living and attending college since April, after being released from jail on $5million bail.

Former Smallville star Allison Mack filed for, and was granted, a restraining order against Thomas Sekera, 53, whom she accused of stalking her at her parents' home in California

Mack claimed that Sekera on one occasion knocked on her parents’ door and lied that he was sent to assist with her legal defense in the sex cult case.

On another occasion, Mack said that her alleged stalker camped outside the house for six hours and busied himself by peering into all the windows on the ground floor.

The judge ordered the 53-year-old to keep his distance from Mack and her parents' residence.

Mack, 36, is best known for her role as a teenage friend of Superman in CW's Smallville (pictured)

A LinekdIn page associated with Sekera indicates that he works as an electrician in Cleveland.

Court records reveal that in 2002, Sekera was convicted of carrying a concealed weapon and sentenced to three years of community control.

The criminal case stemmed from an incident that took place in March 2001, in which Sekera pulled a loaded handgun on his neighbor’s fiance and her six-year-old son.

The neighbor testified he believed that Sekera, whom he had never met prior to the altercation, harassed him and his wife-to-be because they were a mixed-race couple.

His criminal record also includes a string of minor traffic violations and a 2014 conviction on a charge of misdemeanor disorderly conduct.

Keith Raniere, the former head of NXIVM, and Mack, best known for playing a teenage friend of Superman in the CW network’s Smallville, have pleaded not guilty to sex trafficking and conspiracy charges.

They are scheduled to go on trial in March 2019, along with billionaire Seagram's heiress Clare Bornfman and NXIVM co-founder Nancy Salzman.

Prosecutors have accused Mack of helping Raniere recruit women to a secret sub-society within NXIVM, known as DOS. The women were branded by way of a surgical tool with a symbol that resembled Raniere’s initials and were expected to have sex with 'masters.'

Keith Raniere, the former head of NXIVM, and Mack (pictured outside Brooklyn court in October), have been charged with sex trafficking

In an interview with The New York Times prior to her arrest, Mack acknowledged that members of DOS used the terms 'slave' and 'master' and ordered each other to engage in acts of self-denial, but she said it was all done to further self-discipline and self-empowerment. She likened the brands to getting tattoos, but cooler.

Last week, Mack's defense team filed a motion to dismiss, asking the judge to throw out the sex trafficking, racketeering and forced labor conspiracy charges against her, arguing that her conduct 'simply does not fit the crimes,' according to RadarOnline.

Mack and the other defendants are due back in court on December 6 for a hearing.

====== 374 ========

FORMER PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA STOPS IN GREATER CHICAGO FOOD SHELTER TO PREPARE THANKSGIVING MEALS

Former President Barack Obama visited the Greater Chicago Food Depository this week to help prepare Thanksgiving meals ahead of the holiday on Thursday.

The Obama Foundation tweeted a video of Obama's trip to the food bank on Wednesday, which include a call to action from 44.

'Wherever you are in the country, I'll bet there's an organization just like this one that is doing some really good work,' Obama said.

'Make sure that you give them some support as we go into the holiday season.'

The non-profit organization's mission to combat hunger and food insecurity is especially important now, as America has seen a rise in the national food hardship rate for all households for the first time in several years, according to a report released in August by the Food Research and Action Center.

The FRAC report found that the national food hardship rate for all households increased from 15.1 percent in 2016 to 15.7 percent in 2017, as he food hardship rate for households with children rose to a considerably higher level, from 17.5 percent in 2016 to 18.4 percent in 2017.

Nationally, the food hardship rate for households with children is 1.3 times higher than for households without children.

Mississippi had the highest food hardship rate among the states, at 22 percent, which equates to 1 in 5 households, reporting that they did not have enough money to buy food at some point in the past 12 months.

In nearly half the states, 24 plus the District of Columbia, at least 1 in 7 respondent households (14.3 percent or more) reported food hardship.

In between clips of Obama doing his part to help ease that pain, at least for the holiday, Obama touted the efforts of the Greater Chicago Food Depository.

Former President Barack Obama visited the Greater Chicago Food Depository this week to help prepare Thanksgiving meals ahead of the holiday on Thursday, calling on others to do the same across the US

The charity, which serves the city of Chicago and Cook County, is located on West Ann Lurie Place.

'They do great work making sure that those aren't as fortunate are able to enjoy the kind of Thanksgiving meal that so many of us take for granted,' he said, in the midst of interacting with volunteers.

The food bank also shared video from Obama's visit, tweeting a thank you to the former president on Tuesday.

Throughout the videos, Obama is shown working side by side with volunteers, ranging in age from the very young to the more mature

'Thank you to ⁦@BarackObama and @ObamaFoudnation for joining our volunteers today at the Food Depository,' the post read.

'We believe no one should go hungry, especially this time of year, and that’s why we’re working to address the root causes of hunger in Chicago and Cook County.'

Throughout the videos, Obama is shown working side by side with volunteers, ranging in age from the very young to the more mature.

With Obama in a black Chicago White Sox cap and others wearing hair nets and aprons, everyone set about bagging sacks of potatoes that will become a part of Thanksgiving meals.

While working with volunteers, Obama took a moment to thank two young girls who are overjoyed to share their selfless work with the president, bending down to hug one of them

'They do great work making sure that those aren't as fortunate are able to enjoy the kind of Thanksgiving meal that so many of us take for granted,' Obama said, in the midst of clips of him interacting with volunteers

Obama is also seen taking a moment to thank two young girls who are overjoyed to share their selfless work with the president.

'You guys are doing such a great job helping out,' he said, while bending down to give one of the children a hug.

'I'm really proud of ya,' Obama added, while going back to backing food items with other volunteers.

Before he left, Obama signed a blackboard at the food bank featuring his signature word, 'Hope,' with the phrase, 'Hope requires action'

'Happy Thanksgiving everybody,' Obama said, while waving at the large group of volunteers. 'I'm really proud of you guys'

He shared the same sentiment with the group at large before leaving the food bank.

'Happy Thanksgiving everybody,' he said, while waving at the large group of volunteers. 'I'm really proud of you guys.'

Before he left, Obama signed a blackboard at the food bank featuring his signature word, 'Hope,' with the phrase, 'Hope requires action.'

FRAC's report anaylzed the seriousness of food scarcity across the US by recording responses to the question: 'Have there been times in the past twelve months when you did not have enough money to buy food that you or your family needed?'

The Greater Chicago Food Depository serves the city of Chicago and Cook County, is located on West Ann Lurie Place

A 'yes' answer to this question was considered to signal that the household experienced food hardship in the report.

FRAC uses the phrase 'food hardship' to avoid confusion with the annual Census Bureau and US.s Department of Agriculture survey and analysis that produces 'food insecurity' numbers, but the group said the concepts are comparable.

'While often hidden behind closed doors, food hardship is a serious national problem that requires a serious national response,' FRAC president Jim Weill said.

'Too many people in every region, state, and community have been left behind in the economic recovery from the Great Recession, and are still struggling to put food on the table.'

====== 375 ========

LFO SINGER DEVIN LIMA DEAD AT 41 A YEAR AFTER HE HAD A 'FOOTBALL SIZED' TUMOR REMOVED

LFO singer Devin Lima has passed away after a yearlong battle with stage 4 cancer.

Family members said that the 41-year-old died early on Wednesday morning, TMZ reports. He is the second member to die from the group - Rich Cronin died in 2010 after losing his battle with leukemia.

Last October, Lima had a 'football sized' tumor removed - and it was revealed to be cancerous.

Lima who was a member of the trio, who had a hit in 1999 with the song Summer Girls, had been undergoing chemotherapy once the tumor was removed.

Scroll down to see the video

Family members said that 41-year-old Devin Lima died early on Wednesday morning. He succumbed to stage four cancer

Old friends: LFO are pictured here in 2001. The members from L-R are Brad Fischetti, Rich Cronin and Devin Lima. Following the death of founding member Rich Cronin in 2010, Lima and Fischetti had continued the group as a duo

'Will I play summer girls tonight in honor of Devin Lima? yes, yes I will,' said one user

Corinne Kaplan added: 'Will be bumping "Summer Girls" all day. RIP'

Fans took to Twitter to offer their condolences and remember the artist.

'Will I play summer girls tonight in honor of Devin Lima? yes, yes I will,' said one user.

Corinne Kaplan added: 'Will be bumping "Summer Girls" all day. RIP'

Justin Burkhardt said: 'It's kind of mind boggling that two-thirds of the group LFO are no longer alive. Excuse me while I go listen to "The Girl on TV". RIP Devin Lima.'

'I just heard the news. Rest In Peace @devinlima. I am glad you are no longer in pain, but will miss your spirit. Meeting you and singing with @LFO last year was a bucket list experience. This is how I remember you Devin. Prayers for your loved ones,' added Stephanie McKeown.

Justin Burkhardt said: 'It's kind of mind boggling that two-thirds of the group LFO are no longer alive. Excuse me while I go listen to "The Girl on TV". RIP Devin Lima.'

'I just heard the news. Rest In Peace @devinlima. I am glad you are no longer in pain, but will miss your spirit. Meeting you and singing with @LFO last year was a bucket list experience. This is how I remember you Devin. Prayers for your loved ones,' added Stephanie McKeown.

A user stated: 'Man, RIP to #devinlima ❤️��sending so much Strength and love to the family of @TheRealLFO Thank you guys for the classic music and memories that were generated! #girlontv #summergirls #CityOfAngels.'

'Very sorry to hear about the passing of @devinlima from @TheRealLFO. Sending love & strength to @bradfischetti. I had the pleasure of doing their music video #GirlOnTv when I was a teenager & remember how nice all 3 were to everyone,' another added.

Devin's bandmate Brad Fischetti posted an update from the band's official YouTube account last October to let fans know that Lima's adrenal cancer was 'really rare' and 'a one in a million cancer'.

In the update, Fischetti told fans that the Girl On TV singer's cancer has been identified as 'stage four' because it had invaded Lima's kidney 'which they removed'.

At the time, Fischetti called the news 'devastating.'

'Very sorry to hear about the passing of @devinlima from @TheRealLFO. Sending love & strength to @bradfischetti. I had the pleasure of doing their music video #GirlOnTv when I was a teenager & remember how nice all 3 were to everyone,' another added

'No one has a stronger body, mind and soul and if anyone can defeat this it's Devin.'

LFO (originally Lyte Funky Ones) had broken up and reformed several times since their inception in 1995.

Following the death of founding member Rich Cronin in 2010, Lima and Fischetti had continued the group as a duo.

Based on an Instagram post made last year by Fischetti, the band's originally-slated 2017 tour had been pushed back to 2018, pending Lima's recovery. It was cancelled, soon after.

The trio's song 'Summer Girls' was their best song to gate, peaking at number three on the U.S. Billboard 100. It was named the 16th biggest summer song of all time by Billboard in 2010.

====== 376 ========

NICOLE KIDMAN, 51, EXUDES ELEGANCE IN BEADED LBD AT BAFTA EVENT

She has starred in endless critically-acclaimed films throughout her 35-year career, including Moulin Rouge, The Hours and Lion.

And Nicole Kidman looked every inch the screen star as she attended the photocall for a special BAFTA A Life in Pictures event dedicated to her life's work.

The Australian actress, 51, exuded elegance in a sleek sweater with decadent pearl embellishments at the bash in London on Wednesday evening.

Stunning: Nicole Kidman looked every inch the screen star as she attended the photocall for a special BAFTA A Life in Pictures event dedicated to her life's work

Sticking to a monochrome palette, The Others actress showed off her slim frame with a figure-hugging black pencil skirt.

The blonde bombshell added height with a pair of pointed stilettos and opted to wear just her wedding ring as jewellery.

Styling her golden tresses in voluminous ringlets, Nicole framed her features with a sweep of smoky eyeshadow and pink lipstick.

Nicole looked delighted to be at the A Life in Pictures event, a series that shares insights from her longstanding career.

Chic: The Australian actress, 51, exuded elegance in a sleek sweater with decadent pearl embellishments at the bash in London on Wednesday evening

Feeling shy? The actress laughed and hid her face in embarrassment as she posed for photos

Looking good: Sticking to a monochrome palette, The Others actress showed off her slim frame with a figure-hugging black pencil skirt

Meanwhile, the actress recently revealed how her love affair with Tom Cruise played a key role in her destiny.

The Oscar-winning star told Variety that her path to Hollywood was cleared when she moved to Los Angeles from her native Sydney amid her romance with the actor, which began as they filmed their 1990 action-romance, Days of Thunder.

'I moved here because I fell in love and got married,' the 5ft11 beauty told the publication, which names her Show Woman of the Year in its latest edition.

'I always make choices for love, and everything kind of had to fall in place around that.'

Killer footwear: The blonde bombshell added height with a pair of pointed stilettos and opted to wear just her wedding ring as jewellery

The mane attraction: Styling her golden tresses in voluminous ringlets, Nicole framed her features with a sweep of smoky eyeshadow and pink lipstick

Friends in high places: The beauty beamed as she posed with Zygi Kamasa, the CEO of Lionsgate UK

Kidman said that the starry couple didn't have to withstand the amount of scrutiny celebrities experience now, amid the rise of tech and tabloid culture.

'If I look back, it actually didn't seem like a lot of interest,' said Kidman, who appears in the upcoming film Aquaman. 'We didn't have social media then. We didn't have paparazzi like now. You had definite control of it.'

The actress recalled how she and Cruise had a passion for adrenaline-chasing activities such as skydiving.

Special: Nicole looked delighted to be at the A Life in Pictures event, a series that shares insights from her longstanding career

Having a whale of a time! The Eyes Wide Shut actress seemed to be in good spirits as she left the building

Big deal coming through! The Australian beauty beamed as she made her exit

'That's the crux of my personality - standing there, just going, "I want to," and then [saying,] "Oh, no, no, no" and just jumping anyway,' she said.

Kidman and Cruise, who also shared the screen in 1999's Eyes Wide Shut and 1992's Far and Away, split in 2001 after 10 years of marriage, and share two adopted children: daughter Isabella, 25, and son Connor, 23.

She's been married to country crooner Keith Urban since 2006, and they have two daughters: Sunday Rose, 10, and Faith Margaret, seven.

Insight: It comes after she revealed her love affair with ex-husband Tom Cruise, 56, played a key role in her destiny, as she moved to LA amid their relationship

====== 377 ========

LILI REINHART SHARES SNAP OF BOYFRIEND COLE SPROUSE AS RIVERDALE STARS SPEND THANKSGIVING TOGETHER

They are a couple on screen and off.

And Lili Reinhart and Cole Sprouse are sharing the Thanksgiving holiday together as the Riverdale actress posted a snap of her boyfriend to Instagram on Wednesday.

The 22-year-old blonde beauty posted a series of pics with her beau hanging out with the family dog while she made cookies with an adorable niece.

Family affair: Lili Reinhart and Cole Sprouse are sharing Thanksgiving holiday as the Riverdale actress posted a snap of her boyfriend to Instagram on Wednesday; (pictured November)

Cole is rocking a camel colored jacket as he is kneeling next to the beautiful pooch.

Another shot had her father cooking with the family dog next to him and the caption: 'Just wants to help my dad make some eggs'

The Riverdale co-stars have been together since 2017 after they were first spotted looking like a couple at Comic-Con.

Recently, Lilli made given quite the speech when she showed up to Glamour's Women of the Year Summit, where she openly admitted to feeling pressured by society's 'fake standards.'

Snaps: The blonde beauty posted a series of pics with her beau hanging out with the family dog while she made cookies with an adorable niece

If there's anything that the Riverdale star would want her fans to know, it would be that beauty is found in various different ways, adding that it's unrealistic to hold women on a pedestal that sees them develop insecurities and self-hatred.

'I could see the difference in my shape in photos and wondered if anyone else was noticing,' she revealed.

'I felt this strange, constant struggle of having to live up to the expectation of the appearance that I had already established to the world.'

The TV star recalled how, after having seen a string of photos of herself on the internet, she became very conscious about her body image.

Casual cool: Cole is rocking a camel colored jacket as he is kneeling next to the beautiful pooch

Helping hand: Lili was helped out by her niece

And while Lili acknowledges the fact that she's relatively small in size, seeing images of herself from unflattering angles began to change the way in which she found people seeing herself.

'For the past year... I've been quietly trying to navigate my fluctuating weight and I've faced criticism in the past for talking about my body image,' the Ohio native continued to gush.

'People told me that I didn't have the right to talk about being self-conscious about my body because I was skinny.'

'And I understand how it seems inappropriate for someone who is average size to talk about problems with weight gain.'

'But, my point is, I didn't think anything was wrong with my body until I was in an industry that rewards and praises people for having a smaller waist than I will ever have.'

Doting dad: Another shot had her father cooking with the family dog next to him and the caption: 'Just wants to help my dad make some eggs'

====== 378 ========

DEMI ROSE ACCENTUATES HER FAMOUSLY CURVACEOUS PHYSIQUE IN STRAPLESS GRECIAN GOWN IN MAYFAIR

She's famed for putting her envy-inducing figure on full display during glitzy nights out.

And Demi Rose maintained her typically racy appearance as she attended House Of CB's Influencer dinner at Mayfair's Sexy Fish restaurant in London on Wednesday evening.

The glamour model, 23, looked every inch the vixen as she slipped her ample assets into a navy Grecian-style wrap dress by the luxury fashion label, which featured a strapless balconette neckline.

Racy display: Demi Rose maintained her typically racy appearance as she attended House Of CB's Influencer dinner at Mayfair's Sexy Fish restaurant in London on Wednesday evening

Flashing a hint of her toned legs, the bombshell's ensemble was embellished with a risque thigh-high slit.

Demi boosted her petite frame in a pair of pointed perspex heels and toted a trendy chain-strap handbag.

While her tresses were dressed into elegant waves, the Instagram model's beauty was intensified with a soft brown make-up palette.

Va-va-voom! The glamour model, 23, looked every inch the vixen as she slipped her ample assets into a navy Grecian-style wrap dress by the luxury fashion label

Ooh-la-la: Flashing a hint of her toned legs, the bombshell's ensemble was embellished with a risque thigh-high slit

Style savvy: Demi boosted her petite frame in a pair of pointed perspex heels

Stunning: While her tresses were dressed into elegant waves, the Instagram model's beauty was intensified with a soft brown make-up palette

Chic: Demi draped the long chain strap of her trendy handbag over her shoulder

Walking proud: The curvaceous model oozed glamour as she strolled away from the bash

Meanwhile, Love Island's Alexandra Cane caught the eye in a ruched square-neck lime dress, which worked well with her silver strappy heels and sparkling clutch.

The 27-year-old make-up artist opted for her usual glamour as she styled her locks into 60s-inspired curls, and enhanced her visage with a heavy eyeliner look.

Idris Elba's daughter Isan was in good company as she joined her father's fiancee Sabrina Dhowre at the event.

Details: Demi accessorised with an eye-catching gold statement ring and pillar-box red nail extensions which added a dose of sass

Tired out: The Instagram star took the opportunity to have a quick snooze during her ride home

The 16-year-old, who was recently announced as 2019's Golden Globe Ambassador, sported a checked co-ord, while former Miss Vancouver, 29, sizzled in a metallic dress.

Meanwhile, Demi recently gave her followers a sneak peek at her beauty regime, sharing a video of her getting non-surgical liposuction from her kitchen in London.

The star left little to the imagination as she laid in a pair of tiny pants while celebrity beautician Shane Cooper applied a bespoke treatment to her very perky posterior.

Sizzling hot! Meanwhile, Love Island's Alexandra Cane caught the eye in a ruched square-neck lime dress, which worked well with her silver strappy heels and sparkling clutch

Looking good: The 27-year-old make-up artist opted for her usual glamour as she styled her locks into 60s-inspired curls

Radiant: The raven-haired beauty enhanced her visage with heavy eyeliner and nude lipgloss

Sensational: The Love Island star worked her best angles for the camera

The Birmingham-born beauty was seen laying on a green towel atop a treatment bench as her cat walked around and Friends played on the TV in the background.

While she proved to be loving her life in London, Demi has revealed that a move to Los Angeles could be in the works due to her acting dreams.

Speaking to The Sun, she revealed: 'Movies have always been a passion of mine since I went to stage school.

Night on the town: Idris Elba's daughter Isan was in good company as she joined her father's fiancee Sabrina Dhowre at the event

Chic: The 16-year-old, who was recently announced as 2019's Golden Globe Ambassador, sported a checked co-ord, while former Miss Vancouver, 29, sizzled in a metallic dress

'But another ambition is to become a Bond Girl, as I love the style and glamour of those films'.

Kylie Jenner lookalike Demi was first propelled into the spotlight when she was linked to the reality star's ex, rapper Tyga, after they split.

The star has since gained a huge following on Instagram and she is known to display her incredible curves in a number of risque ensembles.

So of course she was more than happy to divulge the secrets to her figure in an exclusive chat with MailOnline.

Stunning: Lauren Pope, 36, looked divine in a figure-flaunting ensemble

Ab-tastic! The TOWIE star displayed her toned midsection as she rocked a bandeau bralet

Stunning: Lauren opted for a glowing make-up look, with lashings of mascara and a glossy lip

Wow-factor! The reality star injected even more glamour into her look as she draped a silk shirt across her arms

Clutching on: Lauren held onto a small blue snake print handbag

TOWIE star Lauren Pope 36, looked divine in a figure-flaunting ensemble.

The beauty displayed her toned midsection as she rocked a bandeau bralet, and added a festive sparkle with a shimmering ruched maxi skirt.

Lauren injected even more glamour into her look as she draped a silk shirt across her arms.

Turning heads: Singer Louisa Johnson flaunted her leggy pins in fuchsia turtleneck midi dress

Girl's night: Louisa appeared to be in good spirits as she left the bash with a gal pal

Leggy: The singer stepped out in a pair of eye-catching multi-patterned heels

Chic: The blonde beauty styled her long tresses into a sleek ponytail

Alexandra Burke, 30, took some time out from her gruelling schedule as she headed out for the star-studded event.

The former X Factor winner flashed a peek of her killer abs in a skintight crop top and leather shorts as she arrived at the celebrity hotspot.

Alexandra wrapped up in a heavy-duty leather jacket and added height with a chic pair of blue suede stilettos.

She carried her belongings in a black fur-trim bag and accessorised simply with hoop earrings.

Styling her tresses in voluminous waves, the singer framed her features with a slick of winged liner and taupe lipstick.

Down time: Alexandra Burke, 30, took some time out from her gruelling schedule as she headed to the star-studded bash at Sexy Fish restaurant

Glam: The former X Factor winner flashed a peek of her killer abs in a skintight crop top and leather shorts as she arrived at the celebrity hotspot

Chic: Alexandra wrapped up in a heavy-duty leather jacket and added height with a chic pair of blue suede stilettos

Va-va-voom: Alexandra styled her long tresses in voluminous waves

Stunning: The singer framed her features with a slick of winged liner and taupe lipstick

In September, Demi revealed: 'I try to keep as healthy as I can. With travelling, it's hard to work out, I travel across the world but try to keep my routine...

'Everyone says I'm the healthiest person they know. The fattiest thing I will ever eat is nuts and peanut butter.'

'My figure just gains weight so fast. Any bad thing I eat my body isn't used to it and just puts on the weight. That means no birthday cake!

'All I've eaten today is nuts. I've managed to eat a whole pot. I feel guilty as there's a lot of fat in the nuts. That's my treat! So I'm happy!'

====== 379 ========

ELSA PATAKY IS AN ALLURING SEDUCTRESS IN NETFLIX'S TIDELANDS OFFICIAL TRAILER

Australians may know her as the stunning wife of Chris Hemsworth.

But come December, Elsa Pataky will take centre stage playing a seductress in the highly-anticipated Netflix show Tidelands.

A trailer for the eight-part series was released on Thursday and featured the 42-year-old in some rather suggestive scenes.

FIRST LOOK: 'Do I look cursed to you?' Elsa Pataky (right) stars in Netflix's seductive trailer for Australian drama Tidelands

Written and created by Stephen M. Irwin, Tidelands centres around the mysterious appearance of a body that washes ashore in the small fishing village of Orphelin Bay.

Spanish-born Elsa plays Adrielle Cuthbert, a 'darkly enigmatic' leader of a group of siren-human hybrids.

In the trailer, she sets pluses racing during an intimate scene with Aussie co-star Aaron Jakubenko, who plays the character of Augie Mcteer.

Steamy scenes! Elsa plays Adrielle Cuthbert, a 'darkly enigmatic' leader of a group of siren-human hybrids, in Tidelands

Wearing a plunging nude dress, she straddles Aaron on the floor while dragging her fingers slowly down his chest.

In another scene, she appears semi-nude and responds to the question, 'Are you cursed by God?' with: 'Do I look cursed to you?'

Elsa's character appears willing to do whatever it takes to protect her people, as the trailer shows her standing over a man she has disarmed.

Lady in charge! Elsa's character appears willing to do whatever it takes to protect her people, as the trailer shows her standing over a man she has disarmed

Strong female character: In another scene, she appears semi-nude and responds to the question, 'Are you cursed by God?' with: 'Do I look cursed to you?'

Tidelands also stars Home and Away's Charlotte Best as Cal McTeer, a young woman who returns to her hometown of Orphelin Bay after 10 years in prison.

Charlotte features in a passionate love scene in the trailer alongside fellow Australian actor Aaron Jakubenko.

Other cast members include Dustin Clare, Peter O'Brien, Finn Little and Mattias Inwood.

Local cast: Tidelands also stars Home and Away's Charlotte Best as Cal McTeer, a young woman who returns to her hometown of Orphelin Bay after 10 years in prison

In an interview with Vogue Australia in March, Elsa revealed how convenient it had been to film the series in Australia.

'For me it's great, I shoot in Brisbane which is close to my house, so I can take the kids to school, and then go to work, it's so convenient,' she said.

Elsa married Thor star Chris Hemsworth, 34, in late 2010, and the couple share three children: daughter India Rose, six, and twin sons Tristan and Sasha, four.

The pair, who were previously based in Los Angeles, now enjoy a blissfully relaxed life in Byron Bay on Australia's east coast.

Tidelands - the first Australian original series for Netflix - debuts on December 14

====== 380 ========

ZAC EFRON SPORTS BUSHY BEARD HORSEBACK RIDING DURING LUXURY ESCAPE TO COSTA RICA

He found his fame as a squeaky clean teen in High School Musical.

But Zac Efron has outgrown his teeny-bopper ways as he was bushy bearded and rugged looking in an Instagram photo posted on Tuesday.

The 31-year-old hunk looked every inch the movie star as he enjoyed a bit of horseback riding in the snap with the caption: 'Mi nueva amiga Amapola'

Handsome hunk: Zac Efron, 31, was bushy bearded and rugged looking in an Instagram photo posted on Tuesday

Zac recently surprised fans when he was spotted litter picking in London last September.

The actor shocked bird watchers at Rainham Marshes Nature Reserve in Purfleet, Thurrock, last week when he volunteered to scoop up bits of plastic and environmentally-damaging waste at the concrete barges.

An onlooker told the Daily Mirror: 'He really mucked in.

'There was no fanfare over his arrival or anything, he just turned up and got involved. Half the volunteers didn't know who he was, but the kids were really excited.'

Baa! Zac found himself caught in a curious traffic jam full of sheep during a video shared from his vacation to Sardinia

The former High School Musical star is currently filming an environmental documentary on food for Netflix and is said to have cameras in tow while he cleaned debris by the Thames.

The publication also reported that Zac also filmed at the London School of Economics and Carnaby Street over the weekend. MailOnline have contacted Zac Efron's rep for comment.

Zac started taking interest in his food earlier this year when he decided to go vegan and he's already noticed such a huge improvement in his health.

Filming: The former High School Musical star is currently filming an environmental documentary on food for Netflix and is said to have cameras in tow while he cleaned debris by the Thames

He recently told TeenVogue.com: 'Just like everyone else, I wake up, look in the mirror, and I see the imperfections and the bags under my eyes, and think, "Oh, man, is this really the best I've ever looked? I'm getting older? What the heck?"

'Recently what I've started doing is searching for the cure inside that's causing the symptoms of what I'm getting on the outside. Getting more sleep has really taken away the bags under my eyes, so I don't need to worry about it as much.

'There are other lifestyle changes - I've been experimenting with eating purely vegan. That's completely changed the way that my body works, and the way that I metabolise food, the way it turns into energy, the way that I sleep. It's been brilliant.'

====== 381 ========

SKRILLEX ORDERED TO PAY WOMAN $1.6 MILLION OVER INJURY AT 2012 SHOW IN WHICH HE JUMPED OFF DJ TABLE

Skrillex was ordered to shell out $1.6 million Wednesday in the case of a fan who said she had a stroke as result of injuries suffered at a 2012 show in downtown Los Angeles after he dove off his DJ table.

A Los Angeles jury said that the fan, Jennifer Fraissl, was entitled to $4,525,402 after she said she had a stroke as result of his actions at The Belasco Theater six years ago, TMZ reported.

The jury held the 30-year-old DJ liable for 35 percent of the damages, which comes out to just less than $1.6 million.

Expensive: Skrillex, 30, was ordered to shell out $1.6 million as part of a judgment issued in the case of a fan whom suffered an injury after he dove off his DJ table at a 2012 show in downtown Los Angeles

The EDM staple's Lost Boys tour company was held liable for around $1.8 million and the venue was fined around $450,000. The defendant herself was was held liable for around 15 percent of the damages, which would deduct more than $678,000 from the total the jury ordered her to receive.

Fraissl had filed the lawsuit in 2014, claiming she had little ability to move at the packed show, and that the stroke was a result of injuries she suffered to her person after his dive.

Skrillex told TMZ in the wake of the developments, 'There is nothing more important to me than my fans and their safety at my shows.'

The Los Angeles native, whose real name is Sonny John Moore, said his hope is that they 'have fun and enjoy the music.'

Out and about: The long-haired DJ was seen in his native LA last year

Fans first: The LA native, whose real name is Sonny John Moore, said his hope is that his fans 'have fun and enjoy the music' at his shows

Skrillex's lawyer Barry Thompson said there was 'video proof' that Skillrex 'never made physical contact with' the defendant, casting doubt on her claims of health problems in the wake of the concert.

'Ms. Fraissl's active international travel schedule since her stroke seems unlikely for someone who suffered the type of mental and physical damages she and her attorney claimed.'

Thompson said an appeal could be in the offing, but nothing has been decided yet.

====== 382 ========

COLBERT SAYS A MAGIC-8 BALL WOULD HAVE BEEN FIRMER ON KHASHOGGI KILLING THAN TRUMP

Stephen Colbert joined a chorus of lawmakers ripping Donald Trump for his 'maybe he did and maybe he didn't' claim about the the murder of Jamal Khashoggi on Tuesday evening.

Colbert said in a segment that made a mockery of Trump's day that 'a Magic-8 Ball' would have taken a firmer stance' on the crown prince of Saudi Arabia played journalist's death.

'Did Donald Trump just knowingly provide cover for a murderous autocrat?' Colbert asked. 'Maybe he did, and maybe he didn’t.'

Stephen Colbert joined a chorus of lawmakers ripping Donald Trump for his 'maybe he did and maybe he didn't' claim about the the murder of Jamal Khashoggi on Tuesday evening

Trump had declared in a statement on Tuesday afternoon that 'the world is a dangerous place' but that doesn't mean that Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman was responsible for the dissident's death.

'It is now,' Colbert said searing the president. 'Apparently you can kill a Washington Post journalist and the president don't give a damn.'

Trump refused to admit that he was wrong on Wednesday to clear bin Salman before all of the intelligence surrounding Khashoggi's death had been assessed.

He insisted he was right not to condemn Saudi Arabian leaders despite the harsh criticism of his pronouncement that the crown prince may have been in the dark.

Trump held the declining price of oil, of which Saudi Arabia is the top exporter, as a reason for maintaining a positive relationship with the kingdom.

'Oil prices getting lower. Great! Like a big Tax Cut for America and the World. Enjoy! $54, was just $82,' he said. 'Thank you to Saudi Arabia, but let’s go lower!'

Donald Trump insisted he was right not to condemn Saudi Arabian leaders for journalist Jamal Khashoggi's murder on Wednesday morning after harsh criticism of his pronouncement the day before that the crown prince may have been in the dark

Trump held the declining price of oil, of which Saudi Arabia is the top exporter, as a reason for maintaining a positive relationship with the kingdom

Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman says he had nothing to do with with the death, but the CIA has confidentially assessed that couldn't plausibly be the case

The president had argued the afternoon prior that Saudi Arabia could jack up the price of oil and drive up consumer costs while defending a much-maligned announcement that he would take no action at this time against the nation for Khashoggi's assassination.

Bin Salman says he had nothing to do with with the death, but the CIA has confidentially assessed that couldn't plausibly be the case. It's unlikely that the de facto ruler of the kingdom was unaware of what was happening inside the consulate where Khashoggi was tortured and then murdered.

Speaking before he boarded Marine One for the first leg of a trip to Mar-a-Lago for Thanksgiving, President Trump refused to retreat from a claim he had made in a written statement that there was no certainty bin Salman ordered the brutal killing of the dissident Washington Post columnist.

He claimed that Russia and China would sweep in and take Saudi investments for themselves if America introduced tough new sanctions on the oil-rich nation.

The president also denied he had any personal business interest in the Saudi economy, claiming that being president had cost him 'a fortune like you have never seen.'

Trump spoke after the White House issued an exclamation point-littered statement on Khashoggi's killing that went against a reported CIA assessment that it was high probable bin Salman ordered the journalist's murder.

His position entirely ignored the CIA's findings and prompted an immediate backlash from prominent senators.

'I never thought I’d see the day a White House would moonlight as a public relations firm for the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia,' Sen. Bob Corker tweeted.

On the White House's South Lawn Trump explained: 'It is all about America first - it is America first.

'We're not going to give up hundreds of billions of dollars of orders and let Russia, China, everybody else have them,' he said.

Trump took to Twitter on Tuesday evening tweeting 'America First'

America first: Trump defiantly said he would not blame Mohammed bin Salman for Jamal Khashoggi's murder because he did not want to 'break with Saudi Arabia.'

That's all folks: Trump spoke before he got on Marine One to begin his journey to Mar-a-Lago

Trump suggested that among the deals which would be at stake were investment in military equipment made by Saudi Arabia, which he claimed was part of a $400 billion investment by Saudi in the U.S.

'They're paying us 400 billion plus,' he claimed. 'That's probably the biggest amount ever paid to the United States. This is over a long period of time.'

In the past, the president has claimed a $110 billion investment from the Saudis in defense equipment that would disappear if the U.S. sanctioned the nation's military sector.

'If you think I'm going to let Russia have that money or those things, if you think I'm going to let China make the military equipment — hey, China and Russia would love to make a hundred billion dollars worth of military equipment from Saudi Arabia. We have the contracts. They wanted those contracts,' he said on Tuesday.

'That would be a big fat beautiful gift to Russia and China. They are not going to get that gift.'

He also said that he believed Saudis would send up global oil prices, which he took personal credit for keeping low.

'Saudi Arabia, if we break with them, I think your oil prices would go through the roof,' he said. 'I've kept them down. They've helped me keep them down.'

If he were to act against the kingdom, Trump suggested there would be a global economic meltdown.

'Right now we have oil prices in great shape. I'm not going to destroy the world economy, and I'm not going to destroy the economy for our country by being foolish with Saudi Arabia.'

He added, 'I think the statement was pretty obvious what I said. It's about America First.'

Trump also denied that he had any personal financial interest in Saudi Arabia, saying: 'Well I have nothing to do with Saudi — just so you understand.

'I don't make deals with Saudi Arabia. I don't have money from Saudi Arabia. I have nothing to do with Saudi Arabia. I couldn't care less,' he insisted. 'As most of you know, being president has cost me a fortune, and that's okay with me. I knew that a long time ago.'

He said the presidency has cost him more than he's profited, although he refused to say how much.

'Being president has cost me a fortune. A tremendous fortune like you've never seen before. But some day I'll tell you what that is.'

His claims came in response to the critical reception that a lengthy written statement defending Saudi Arabia had received.

Before he pardoned two Thanksgiving turkeys, Trump indicated that he wasn't convinced by the CIA's version of the events leading to Khashoggi's death.

'Our intelligence agencies continue to assess all information, but it could very well be that the Crown Prince had knowledge of this tragic event – maybe he did and maybe he didn't!' the president said.

The CIA has determined that Mohammed bin Salman not only knew about the killing of Jamal Khashoggi, but that he ordered it. But Trump, in a lengthy statement just before he pardoned two Thanksgiving turkeys, said he wasn't convinced

Trump's intervention serves to prop up MBS, who is a close ally of Jared Kushner, the president's son-in-law, at a time when the top of the wider Saudi royal family is no longer united in backing him.

One of his uncles is being suggested as the next king by other family members, leaving MBS more politically exposed than he had been before the furor over the murder.

The president's was warned by two Republican senators who he sees as key allies, Lindsey Graham and Rand Paul, that he was wrong not to sanction Saudi Arabia and MBS, even though he left the option open to Congess.

Graham said it is not in U.S. national security interests to 'look the other way when it comes to the brutal murder' of Khashoggi.

The South Carolina senator said he thinks there will be strong bipartisan support in Congress for serious sanctions against Saudi Arabia and members of the royal family.

Paul also said it was a 'mistake' for Trump to continue supporting arms sales to the Saudis, saying 'it's a sign of weakness not to stand up to Saudi Arabia.'

The Kentucky senator has been trying to convince Trump to halt the $100 billion in arms sales that Trump says Saudi Arabia already committed to. Paul said Trump's position signals that Saudi Arabia can 'just behead anybody that protests against the kingdom.'

He also said selling arms is not a 'jobs program,' and the U.S. should not reward Saudi Arabia's 'bad behavior.' He claimed he has the votes in the Senate to block it.

Trump's stunning statement came hours before the president was due to depart the White House for a family holiday at Mar-a-Lago.

And it was just days after the president admitted he had not listened to an audio tape provided by the Turkish government of Khashoggi's murder, because it was too gruesome.

'It was very violent, very vicious and terrible,' Trump told told Fox News on Friday.

Turmp said then that he didn't know if MBS was lying to him when he told him that he had no knowledge of the murder.

In the interview for Fox News Sunday the president replied: 'Well, will anybody really know? All right, will anybody really know? But he did have certainly people that were reasonably close to him and close to him that were probably involved.

'You saw we put on very heavy sanctions, massive sanctions on a large group of people from Saudi Arabia. But at the same time we do have an ally and I want to stick with an ally that in many ways has been very good,' he explained.

The president on Tuesday said that he was still open to sanctions that could be imposed by Congress in the lame duck session but would only support them if they were in the United States' national security interests.

He insisted, 'The crime against Jamal Khashoggi was a terrible one, and one that our country does not condone.'

Yet, the U.S. president said he would take no further action because the United States' relationship with Saudi Arabia is too valuable.

'That being said, we may never know all of the facts surrounding the murder of Mr. Jamal Khashoggi. In any case, our relationship is with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,' he again asserted.

His statement, sent early Tuesday afternoon, claimed, 'They have been a great ally in our very important fight against Iran. The United States intends to remain a steadfast partner of Saudi Arabia to ensure the interests of our country, Israel and all other partners in the region.'

Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif fired back on Twitter.

'Mr. Trump bizarrely devotes the FIRST paragraph of his shameful statement on Saudi atrocities to accuse IRAN of every sort of malfeasance he can think of. Perhaps we're also responsible for the California fires, because we didn't help rake the forests - just like the Finns do?'

The comment was a jab at Trump's claim in an interview that wildfires could be prevented by better raking of weeds and underneath trees.

MBS pal Jared Kushner is pictured with his family at the president's turkey pardoning minutes after the statement went out on Tuesday

TRUMP'S EXCLAMATION POINT LITTERED STATEMENT ON WHY HE WON'T BLAME SAUDI ARABIA FOR MURDER OF JAMAL KHASHOGGI Statement from President Donald J. Trump on Standing with Saudi Arabia America First! The world is a very dangerous place! The country of Iran, as an example, is responsible for a bloody proxy war against Saudi Arabia in Yemen, trying to destabilize Iraq's fragile attempt at democracy, supporting the terror group Hezbollah in Lebanon, propping up dictator Bashar Assad in Syria (who has killed millions of his own citizens), and much more. Likewise, the Iranians have killed many Americans and other innocent people throughout the Middle East. Iran states openly, and with great force, 'Death to America!' and 'Death to Israel!' Iran is considered 'the world's leading sponsor of terror.' On the other hand, Saudi Arabia would gladly withdraw from Yemen if the Iranians would agree to leave. They would immediately provide desperately needed humanitarian assistance. Additionally, Saudi Arabia has agreed to spend billions of dollars in leading the fight against Radical Islamic Terrorism. After my heavily negotiated trip to Saudi Arabia last year, the Kingdom agreed to spend and invest $450 billion in the United States. This is a record amount of money. It will create hundreds of thousands of jobs, tremendous economic development, and much additional wealth for the United States. Of the $450 billion, $110 billion will be spent on the purchase of military equipment from Boeing, Lockheed Martin, Raytheon and many other great U.S. defense contractors. If we foolishly cancel these contracts, Russia and China would be the enormous beneficiaries – and very happy to acquire all of this newfound business. It would be a wonderful gift to them directly from the United States! The crime against Jamal Khashoggi was a terrible one, and one that our country does not condone. Indeed, we have taken strong action against those already known to have participated in the murder. After great independent research, we now know many details of this horrible crime. We have already sanctioned 17 Saudis known to have been involved in the murder of Mr. Khashoggi, and the disposal of his body. Representatives of Saudi Arabia say that Jamal Khashoggi was an 'enemy of the state' and a member of the Muslim Brotherhood, but my decision is in no way based on that – this is an unacceptable and horrible crime. King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman vigorously deny any knowledge of the planning or execution of the murder of Mr. Khashoggi. Our intelligence agencies continue to assess all information, but it could very well be that the Crown Prince had knowledge of this tragic event – maybe he did and maybe he didn't! That being said, we may never know all of the facts surrounding the murder of Mr. Jamal Khashoggi. In any case, our relationship is with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. They have been a great ally in our very important fight against Iran. The United States intends to remain a steadfast partner of Saudi Arabia to ensure the interests of our country, Israel and all other partners in the region. It is our paramount goal to fully eliminate the threat of terrorism throughout the world! I understand there are members of Congress who, for political or other reasons, would like to go in a different direction – and they are free to do so. I will consider whatever ideas are presented to me, but only if they are consistent with the absolute security and safety of America. After the United States, Saudi Arabia is the largest oil producing nation in the world. They have worked closely with us and have been very responsive to my requests to keeping oil prices at reasonable levels – so important for the world. As President of the United States I intend to ensure that, in a very dangerous world, America is pursuing its national interests and vigorously contesting countries that wish to do us harm. Very simply it is called America First!

In addition to invoking Iran, Trump had contended the United States has already taken 'strong action' against the alleged perpetrators of the crime that MBS says he wasn't aware of.

'After great independent research, we now know many details of this horrible crime. We have already sanctioned 17 Saudis known to have been involved in the murder of Mr. Khashoggi, and the disposal of his body,' he said.

Members of Congress, including expected House Intelligence Chairman Adam Schiff, were incredulous at Trump's statement on Tuesday.

'It is true that our relationship is with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, not just its Crown Prince, and that must factor into our response. But to suggest 'maybe he did and maybe he didn't' or that we are incapable of finding out the truth, or that knowing the truth our silence can be bought with arms sales, undermines respect for the Office of the Presidency, the credibility of our intelligence community and America's standing as a champion of human rights,' Schiff responded.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein, another California Democrat, said in a statement on Tuesday afternoon, 'I'm shocked that President Trump said there will be no punishment for Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman for the killing of Jamal Khashoggi.'

'I plan to vote against any future arms sales and appropriation to Saudi Arabia. I also believe that the United States should consider sanctions against the crown prince and that the Saudi ambassador to the United States should not be allowed to continue in that role,' she insisted.

Trump in a rebuttal to the complaints had said in his comments that he understands if Congress wants to pursue a different course of action than he did.

'I understand there are members of Congress who, for political or other reasons, would like to go in a different direction - and they are free to do so. I will consider whatever ideas are presented to me, but only if they are consistent with the absolute security and safety of America,' he argued.

He specifically noted that Saudi Arabia is a large producer of oil.

'They have worked closely with us and have been very responsive to my requests to keeping oil prices at reasonable levels – so important for the world,' he said. 'As President of the United States I intend to ensure that, in a very dangerous world, America is pursuing its national interests and vigorously contesting countries that wish to do us harm. Very simply it is called America First!'

JAMAL KHASHOGGI'S PUBLISHER VENTS FURY AT TRUMP'S 'BETRAYAL' OF VALUES Washington Post Publisher and CEO Fred Ryan said: President Trump's response to the brutal murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi is a betrayal of long-established American values of respect for human rights and the expectation of trust and honesty in our strategic relationships. He is placing personal relationships and commercial interests above American interests in his desire to continue to do business as usual with the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia. The Central Intelligence Agency has thoroughly investigated the murder of this innocent journalist and concluded with high confidence that it was directed by the Crown Prince. If there is reason to doubt the findings of the CIA, President Trump should immediately make that evidence public. President Trump is correct in saying the world is a very dangerous place. His surrender to this state-oriented murder will only make it more so. An innocent man, brutally slain, deserves better, as does the cause of truth and justice and human rights. In this failure of leadership from President Trump, it now falls to Congress to stand up for America's true values and lasting interests.

At the White House on Monday, the president's counselor, Kellyanne Conway had insisted that sanctions were not permanently off the table after launching a passionate defense of the president's actions so far.

She said that Trump would make a decision after reading an intelligence community report.

Vice President Mike Pence had told reporters while he was in Australia that the U.S would hold 'all of those who are responsible' for the murder accountable.

'The murder of Jamal Khashoggi was an atrocity. It was also an affront to a free and independent press and the United States is determined to hold all of those accountable who are responsible for that murder,' Pence told reporters traveling with him on Saturday.

Trump then released a puzzling statement defending the Saudis and the crown prince.

'King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman vigorously deny any knowledge of the planning or execution of the murder of Mr. Khashoggi,' he again pointed out.

It was more love than MBS was getting from inside the royal family.

Sources close to the royal court told Reuters that princes and cousins from inside the Al Saud family are asking for a change in the line of succession. They acknowledged that the 82-year-old king is unlikely to ditch his son, however.

A Washington Post report over the weekend said the U.S. had high confidence in a CIA assessment that MBS would have been knowledgeable about events happening in the kingdom he effectively rules.

The CIA's confidence level was lifted, CNN reported, after receiving an audio tape provided to the U.S. by the Turkish government earlier this month.

Khashoggi can be heard ordering his killers to release him in the audio recording of his murder, before one of the killers shouts: 'Traitor! You will be brought to account,' according to Turkish media.

The audio allegedly also includes a conversation between members of the 'hit squad' during which one of them complains about having to wear Khashoggi's clothing to act as a decoy after his murder.

Shortly after entering the consulate in Istanbul, according to Haberturk, the journalist can also be heard saying, 'Release my arm! What do you think you are doing?'

The exchange is followed by 'a verbal quarrel, noises of a physical fight and then beating and torture', the newspaper reported.

More than an hour after Khashoggi enters the consulate, a male voice can allegedly be heard saying 'it is spooky to wear the clothes of a man whom we killed 20 minutes ago.'

The 59-year-old Washington Post journalist was last seen entering the building on October 2 to obtain paperwork for his upcoming marriage to his Turkish fiancee.

According to Turkish officials, the audio recording proves that Khashoggi was strangled to death and dismembered soon after entering the consulate.

At the State Department, the nation's chief diplomat, Mike Pompeo, echoed the president at a press briefing, telling reporters, 'As the president said today, the United States will continue to have a relationship with the kingdom of Saudi Arabia.'

'This is a long, historic commitment and one that is absolutely vital to Americans' national security,' he said.

King Salman, 82, made a speech in Riyadh on Monday where he backed his son and made no direct reference to Khashoggi's murder, except to praise the Saudi prosecutor

====== 383 ========

MARY POPPINS RETURNS STAR LIN-MANUEL MIRANDA ON BONDING WITH DICK VAN DYKE

Lin-Manuel Miranda hopes to be as energetic as Dick Van Dyke when he is 91.

The Mary Poppins Returns actor, 38, was in awe of the high energy of his elderly co-star - who appeared in the original 1964 Disney classic - and enjoyed gossiping with him on the set of the highly anticipated sequel.

The 38-year-old performer told Collider that he loved shooting scenes with the legendary Chitty Chitty Bang Bang actor and said: 'It was like the best two days ever. I aspire to having that much energy in my life, someday, much less at 91.

Working together: Mary Poppins Returns star Lin-Manuel Miranda reveals he bonded over 'thrilling' Broadway gossip with co-star Dick Van Dyke, 91

'We were in the scene together, and we were just huddled off in the corner, and I was asking questions about Bye Bye Birdie.

'You want to talk about a run - that guy went from debuting on Broadway in Bye Bye Birdie to getting The Dick Van Dyke Show to filming Mary Poppins like, on his hiatus.

'If anyone has a right to be retired and chilling, it's Dick Van Dyke! And yet he's with us singing and dancing, and it was really thrilling, you know, just to swap Broadway stories about him.'

He's back: Dick Van Dyke in the new movie, in which he plays Mr Dawes Jr, the chairman of Fidelity Fiduciary Bank

Mary Poppins Returns stars Emily Blunt as the magical nanny who returns to help the Banks siblings and Michael's children decades after her original visit because they are going through a difficult time in their lives.

Dick is appearing in the sequel as Mr Dawes Jr, the chairman of Fidelity Fiduciary Bank.

Lin-Manuel gushed that starring in the sequel - which is helmed by Chicago director Rob Marshall - was a dream come true.

He added: 'I mean, it's amazing. Because, you know, there are dreams come true moments; getting your show on Broadway, getting to be in a movie.

====== 384 ========

EIZA GONZALEZ SIZZLES IN SKIMPY BIKINI IN HAWAII DURING BREAK FROM FILMING GODZILLA VS. KING KONG

She's currently filming one of the most highly anticipated blockbusters but actress Eiza Gonzalez got to enjoy a few days of R & R in Hawaii this week.

The Mexican born beauty flaunted her toned physique in Honolulu as she took some time to soak up the sun on Sunday.

The 28-year-old frolicked in the water in a skimpy two-piece silver bikini during a break from shooting Godzilla vs. King Kong

Sizzling! Eiza Gonzalez flaunted her enviable physique on the beach in Hawaii on Sunday

Eiza's taught tummy was exposed as she took a dip in the sea wearing a simple neutral swim suit.

The skimpy bottoms revealed a hint of a small tattoo peaking out from beneath the spandex on the actress' groin.

From behind, the cheeky bottoms exposed the star's perky bum.

Her raven locks were left down and soaking wet from the salt water.

Splish splash! The 28-year-old looked stunning in a cheeky pair of bikini bottoms

Inked: A small tattoo peeked out from beneath Eiza's itty bitty bikini on her groin

Day off: The star was enjoying her time at the beach during a break from filming her upcoming movie

Tattoos: The Mexican born star also showed off small ink on her feet while she was in the water

Eiza appeared makeup free and protected her eyes from the blazing Hawaiian sun with a pair of large mirrored sunglasses.

Even thought she was dripping wet in the ocean, the star kept on a silver watch and some thin necklaces.

The actress seemed to be enjoying her romp at the beach and was spotted giggling as she swam in the waves.

Swim style: The actress opted for a barely there light grey two-piece with a cheeky bottom and spaghetti straps

Fun times! Eiza was photographed laughing as she went for a swim

Monster movie: The actress is filming the blockbuster Godzilla vs. King Kong with Alexander Skarsgard

On Instagram the star recently shared her admiration for the island state writing, 'Hawaii you are a dream.'

The Baby Driver star is in Hawaii to film the forthcoming mega monster flick Godzilla vs. King Kong.

This week she and co-star Alexander Skarsgard were spotted for the first time on the set of the film on a beach in Honolulu.

'Hawaii you are a dream:' Eiza wrote on Instagram while working on the island

Girl power: Stranger Things star Millie Bobby Brown, Walking Dead's Danai Gurira and Bate's Motel star Vera Farmiga have all signed on for the project

Many details about the movie have been kept under wraps but Stranger Things star Millie Bobby Brown, Walking Dead's Danai Gurira and Bate's Motel star Vera Farmiga have all signed on for the project.

Previously modern remakes of King Kong and Godzilla have boasted a combined billion plus box office gross.

The crossover of the two film franchises, which is also a remake of a 1960s flick, is expected to rake in hundreds of millions.

Gozilla vs. King Kong hopes to destroy the box office when it is released in 2020.

====== 385 ========

TEKASHI69'S LAWYER CLAIMS HE IS A VICTIM AS NICKI MINAJ OFFERS HER PRAYERS TO HIM AND HIS FAMILY

Tekashi 6ix9ine's lawyer claimed that his client was 'completely innocent' of federal racketeering and firearms charges as Nicki Minaj took to her social media to lend her support to the embattled rapper.

On Wednesday, defense attorney Lance Lazzaro said in a statement that his client was 'completely innocent of all charges.'

'An entertainer who portrays a 'gangster image' to promote his music does not make him a member of an enterprise,' Lazzaro said of the 22-year-old, whose real name is Daniel Hernandez.

On Wednesday, defense attorney Lance Lazzaro said in a statement that his client was 'completely innocent of all charges'

'Mr. Hernandez became a victim of this enterprise and later took steps by firing employees and publicly denounced this enterprise through a morning show. Threats were then made against his life which resulted in this case being brought immediately,' he added.

Soon after the statement, Nicki Minaj took to her Instagram to offer her own words for 'Danny.'

'For reasons beyond music, the record company will hold off on putting his project out for now,' she said. 'Danny, I love you and am praying for you, your Mother, daughter & her Mom during this time.'

Soon after the statement, Nicki Minaj took to her Instagram to offer her own words for 'Danny', the photo she posted above

'For reasons beyond music, the record company will hold off on putting his project out for now,' she said. 'Danny, I love you and am praying for you, your Mother, daughter & her Mom during this time'

The two have song 'FeFe' out together and the track wound up being 6ix9ine's highest-charting single, coming in at number three on the Billboard Hot 100. It is likely the project she was referring to is the hit track and it's anticipated appearance on 6ix9ine's album which has now been delayed.

Nicki Minaj and 6ix9ine have a song called 'FeFe' out together and the track wound up being the rapper's highest-charting single, coming in at number three on the Billboard Hot 100

The rapper is among five people indicted this week on charges that he directed or participated in violent acts as part of a deadly gang known as the 9 Trey Bloods.

The indictment alleges that the violent episodes involving 6ix9ine included the July shooting of a bystander in Brooklyn and the gunpoint robbery of one of the gang's rivals last spring.

6ix9ine was held without bail after an initial appearance before a Manhattan federal magistrate judge on Monday.

At Monday's hearing, Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Longyear said the rapper did not renounce his membership in the gang on the radio show last week.

He said 6ix9ine would have been arrested this week anyway, but it was sped up when authorities learned that he planned to go to a Connecticut casino where it would be harder to protect him from the threats.

Longyear said the threats were overheard on phone calls intercepted Saturday by investigators, including one in which an individual was heard saying that gang members wanted to 'super violate him.'

6ix9ine, whose real name is Daniel Hernandez, was indicted on racketeering and firearm charges in Manhattan federal court on Monday. He is pictured in court in October

The prosecutor noted that violence seemed to surround the entertainer. He said 10 shots were fired into a Beverly Hills, California, home where he was filming a music video a week ago.

The statements come after 6ix9ine was placed in general population at Brooklyn's Metropolitan Detention Center.

The prison is known for being filled with 'extremely dangerous, violent, or escape-prone' inmates, according to the US Justice Department.

Federal prosecutors alleged the 22-year-old rapper was involved in the violent New York City-based gang Nine Trey, a 'violent sect of the Bloods', for several years.

6ix9ine's bail hearing was scheduled for Tuesday but has been pushed to Wednesday because the judge was unavailable.

Federal prosecutors alleged the 22-year-old rapper was involved in the violent New York City -based gang Nine Trey, a 'violent sect of the Bloods', for several years

This April 3, 2018 still image from a surveillance video was released by federal prosecutors to document alleged involvement by the rapper in several violent incidents

This April 21, 2018 still image from a surveillance video shows a shooting at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, which prosecutors claim the rapper and Nine Trey were involved in

Hs ex-manager Kifano Jordan, aka Shotti, was charged.

Faheem Walter, aka Crippy, Jamel Jones, aka Mel Murda, Jensel Butler, aka Ish, and Fuguan Lovick, aka Fu Banga, were also indicted.

According to the press release, Nine Trey is a 'criminal enterprise involved in committing numerous acts of violence, including shootings, robberies, and assaults in and around Manhattan and Brooklyn'.

'Members and associates of Nine Trey engaged in violence to retaliate against rival gangs, to promote the standing and reputation of Nine Trey, and to protect the gang's narcotics business,' the press release continues.

The group 'enriched themselves by committing robberies and selling drugs, such as heroin, fentanyl, furanly fentanyl, MDMA, dibutylone, and marijuana.'

Nine Trey was established in the early 90s at Rikers and operates in other areas of the country, including California.

6ix9ine's former manager Kifano Jordan (pictured November 7 in Manhattan court) has also been charged in the gang-related crimes

6ix9ine is currently facing 25 years to life in prison on six counts of the gang-related crimes.

US Attorney Geoffrey Berman said the gang has been involved in multiple acts of violence and has wreaked havoc on New York City.

'Showing reckless indifference to others' safety, members of the gang were allegedly involved in robberies and shootings, including a shooting inside the crowded Barclay's Center, and a shooting in which an innocent bystander was hit,' Berman said.

'Thanks to the extraordinary work of HSI, ATF, and the NYPD, the defendants will now face justice in federal court.'

The rapper, whose debut album Day69 is among the most downloaded on iTunes, has been among the most ascendant and controversial names in hip-hop in recent months.

In 2015, 6ix9ine pleaded guilty to one felony count of using a child in a sexual performance.

Authorities said the rapper had sexual contact with a 13-year-old girl when he was 18 and distributed videos of the incident online.

6ix9ine recently pleaded guilty to disorderly conduct in Brooklyn Criminal Court in connection with a May traffic stop.

Last week the rapper revealed in an Instagram clip that he had dismissed his entire staff, including his manager and booker.

'I fired everybody on my team,' the Gummo artist said in the clip, imploring his fans that he was not going to be performing live in the near future, even in cases where he might be advertised.

'I don't got no manager, I got no booking agent, no PR, no publicist, I don't got nobody on my team - it's just me.'

====== 386 ========

CARDI B CONFUSES FANS WITH PHOTO OF HER NECK.... AS SHE HINTS SHE'S UNDERGOING A 'T***Y RENOVATION'

She's the extremely successful female rapper who's known for sharing both the good and bad parts of her life on social media.

And while Cardi B kept it real once again on Wednesday, her fans were left slightly confused.

Taking to social media, the 26-year-old posted an extreme close up photo of the back of her neck, but it took followers more than a minute to work out what she had shared.

Extreme close-up! Cardi B confused fans on Wednesday when she shared a photo of the back of her neck with the holes from a piercing she got in high school

'Lmfaoooo I thought this was your thawed out Turkey. Oh M to the G. I can't Lord,' captioned one.

Another said: 'My first glance was an abdomen with [a] white bikini and saggy wrinkled t**s with rhinestones on them.'

And while many others shared their confusion on the image that garnered over 300,000 likes within the first hour, it was in fact the back of Cardi's neck.

Confused: 'Lmfaoooo I thought this was your thawed out Turkey. Oh M to the G. I can't Lord,' captioned one

Busy week: Cardi's post comes after she revealed on yesterday that she would be undergoing surgery on Wednesday

'CARDI FACTS: I had the back of my neck pierced in Highschool,' she captioned.

The picture showcased two small holes in the center with her bedazzled nails making the shot and further confusing fans.

Cardi's post comes after she revealed on yesterday that she would be undergoing surgery on Wednesday.

Asking for prayers: And while Cardi didn't explicitly say what exact procedure she was undergoing, loyal eagle-eyed fans claimed it was a breast augmentation

'getting surgery [tomorrow] pray for me. They removing all my feelings,' she shared with a crying face emoji.

She captioned the written image with: 'I gotta get them remove before grimey winter.'

And while Cardi didn't explicitly say what exact procedure she was undergoing, loyal eagle-eyed fans claimed it was a breast augmentation.

The time has come: The news comes after the Bodak Yellow singer used duct tape to lift her breasts during Paris Fashion Week and said she planned to go under the knife in November/December to get a 't***y renovation'

Surgery later in the day? And while Cardi's yet to confirm what her surgery is, she took to Instagram Stories on Wednesday, revealing she was at work

The news comes after the Bodak Yellow singer used duct tape to lift her breasts during Paris Fashion Week and said she planned to go under the knife in November/December to get a 't***y renovation'.

'This s*** is crazy, I have never done this s*** in my life, but f*** it. I have to f***ing tape my t*****s up because son... giving birth... my t*****s were already a little low, low,' an energetic and emphatic Cardi revealed about her breasts.

"I got my t*****s done when I was 19 and I never wore a bra so when I was pregnant my s*** was looking nice though nice, I was like oh s***.'

She continued back in late September: 'I don't give a f***, if you see me gone in November or December, I'm getting my t*** done I don't give a f***. Matter of fact.. I call it t***y renovation because I got to renovate this sh****.'

She ended with: 'I'm out here taping myself so I can look like this. I want my s*** to look like this again.

And while Cardi's yet to confirm what her surgery is, she took to Instagram Stories on Wednesday, revealing she was at work.

'Momma bear working... tired,' she captioned.

====== 387 ========

HEIDI MONTAG SAYS SHE AND SPENCER PRATT ARE 'TRULY A TEAM' ON THEIR 10 YEAR WEDDING ANNIVERSARY

Speidi has officially made it through a decade of marriage.

Heidi Montag, 32, posted a sweet photo of her family on Instagram to celebrate her 10th wedding anniversary with her husband Spencer Pratt, 35, on Thursday.

The reality show couple eloped in Mexico a decade ago during the fourth season of the MTV reality show The Hills.

Milestone! Heidi Spencer is celebrating her decade long marriage to Spencer Pratt with a new image of her family which she posted on Instagram on Wednesday

The mother of one posted an enthusiastic caption with her anniversary note writing: 'Happy 10 year anniversary my love!!!!'

Three blonde heads look happy as can be huddled up in the photo which showed Heidi and Spencer joyfully sandwiching their one-year-old son Gunner.

'Life just keeps getting better,' the reality star wrote. 'So fun thinking back over the past years and how much we have been through.'

She added: 'Thick and thin we truly are a team. Thank you for our beautiful son and so excited to expand our family and see what God has in store.'

Wedded bliss: Spencer and Heidi tied the knot in Mexico in 2008 just a month before this New Year's Eve shot was taken in Vegas

Speidi, as they are now affectionately known, started dating in 2007.

Their romance was a central plot point on The Hills and it ultimately placed a wedge between Montag and pal Lauren Conrad on the show.

Conrad accused Spencer, at the time, of being involved in a leaked sex tape of she and ex Jason Whaler.

Throwback: The couple started dating back in 2007 and their relationship was a big plot point on MTV's The Hills

Problems: Heidi and Lauren Conrad had a falling out on the show due to her ongoing relationship with Spencer

Speidi, as they were known, jetted off to Mexico to elope in November of the following year and then had a legal US wedding in April of 2009.

Fans thought the marriage would soon fail, but have been proved wrong.

Over the years the pair have become a permanent fixture in the reality television landscape making appearances on shows like I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here!, Celebrity Big Brother and Wife Swap.

This year the couple is returning to the show that made them famous and will be featured in the reboot of The Hills.

Back to the beginning: The duo are starring in the reboot of their hit reality show which is set to debut next year

It is rumored that Heidi and Spencer are not happy about former The O.C. star, Mischa Barton, joining the cast of reboot.

The reality stars, who are filming for the next installment, are 'terrified' that Mischa will steal the spotlight, Life & Style magazine reports.

It's being claimed by a source that the duo are already plotting ways to get the actress booted off the show.

Persona non grata: Speidi reportedly is already hatching a plan to get rid of new cast member Mischa Barton

But that might be exactly what producers were hoping for.

'Mischa was hired to stir up drama,' an insider told the magazine, adding that they're hoping to 'keep viewers glued to their screens.'

No date has been set for the premiere of The Hills: New Beginnings but it's expected to be early 2019.

====== 388 ========

JESSIE JAMES DECKER REVEALS CHAOTIC AIRPLANE TRIP WITH HER THREE KIDS AS SON 'PUKED ON HIS CLOTHES'

Travelling with young children can be difficult.

And Jessie James Decker learned this first hand as she boarded a Southwest flight with her children Vivianne, four, Eric Jr., three, and seven-month-old Forrest on Wednesday.

'First we kept getting in trouble from the flight attendant for how many kids we could have in the rows and we truly were confused and kept doing musical chairs and I don’t think we ever got it right,' began the country star, 30, in an Instagram post.

Troubled traveler: Jessie James Decker had a chaotic flight as she boarded a Southwest flight with her children Vivianne, four, Eric Jr., three, and seven-month-old Forrest on Wednesday

'Bubby puked (my nauseous baby) all over his clothes poor baby. Forrest was the squirmiest wormy because he wants to be cool like his big brother and sister and refused to sit still,' she detailed the experience.

'Pacis dropping, bottles rolling under seats and people rollin eyes but hey we made it!

'Oh and all I had with me were Vivs clothes since she insists on having a carry on which was smart because we had to change Bubby into her clothes.

'All n all wouldn’t change a thing lol love these babies! Let the thanksgiving week of gratefulness begin, any parents relate to traveling with a wolf pack?

Laughs for now: 'First we kept getting in trouble from the flight attendant for how many kids we could have in the rows and we truly were confused and kept doing musical chairs and I don’t think we ever got it right,' began the country star, 30, in an Instagram post

The star shares the three kids with NFL vet Eric Decker.

After her last pregnancy, she watched what she ate by starting the South Beach Diet again so the pounds would more easily slip off. She is also the brand's ambassador.

As far as being a fit with South Beach Diet, it was easy, she said.

'I'd been adhering to the South Beach for so long without even knowing it, so this partnership has always just made sense,' the Just Jessie: My Guide to Love, Life, Family, and Food author told DailyMail.com exclusively.

Doting dad: The star shares the three kids with NFL vet Eric Decker

'I know the program works, which is why I turned to it again after I had Forrest.

'I've been very open about how the weight hasn't come off as easily after my third baby and although I haven't reached my goal yet, I can honestly say that I feel so good and incredibly healthy.'

Jessie first partnered with South Beach as ambassador and social media influencer in April 2017 after her second child and will appear again in a 360-degree marketing campaign including television, online, digital and social media.

====== 389 ========

VICKI GUNVALSON SAYS DOCTORS 'PEELED MY WHOLE FACE' DURING FACELIFT

She's never been one to keep her personal life private.

And having undergone a drastic facelift, Vicki Gunvalson is now sharing the graphic details with anyone who will listen.

In a new preview for The Real Housewives Of Orange County, Vicki is seen making her boyfriend Steve Lodge's daughter Amanda wince as she shares the gruesome details of her surgery.

Vicki Gunvalson says doctors 'peeled my whole face' during facelift... but boyfriend's daughter can't hide her horror at gruesome description

Not holding back: In a new preview for The Real Housewives Of Orange County, Vicki is seen making boyfriend Steve Lodge's daughter Amanda wince as she shares the gruesome details

'Oh my god you'e so pretty,' she tells the blonde, before adding: 'You know I had a facelift?'

Lifting her hair, she shows the fresh scars from the five-hour surgery.

'It goes from here all the way around to here and under here,' she says, pointing to the lines of red skin. 'So they peeled my whole face, took all the fillers out and then put me back together again.'

Horror: Amanda is speechless at the gruesome description

Still raw: Lifting her hair, Vicki shows the fresh scars from the five-hour surgery

Silence: As Amanda stands staring in apparent horror, open mouthed, her boyfriend jumps in with 'Well you look great'

As Amanda stands staring in apparent horror, open mouthed, her boyfriend jumps in with 'Well you look great.'

Remembering herself shocked Amanda adds: 'Yeah you look good.'

Obviously amused by the exchange, Vicki shared a clip to her Instagram page, writing: 'How to make the kids appreciate their youthful appearance, tell them about your face lift.'

Mother-of-two Vicki, 56, is no stranger to surgery. Along with her facelift she has previously had work done on her nose, chin, tummy and eyes, as well as multiple boob jobs.

====== 390 ========

ALL HAIL QUEEN KYLIE! BLONDE BOMBSHELL JENNER WEARS REGAL CROWN IN SNEAK PEEK OF HER NEW CALENDAR

Kylie Jenner shared a sneak peek of her upcoming calendar with fans on Wednesday.

The 21-year-old beauty mogul looked like the queen of Calabasas in the new shots, posing with a huge sparkly crown.

She dressed in a tight gold Naked Wardrobe dress and accessorized with dramatic gold jewelry.

Her blonde hair was set with a center part and curled up ends.

She captioned the frames: 'I’m so excited about my 2019 Calendar dropping 11/23 Black Friday'

Queen of Calabasas: Kylie Jenner shared a sneak peek of her upcoming calendar with fans on Instagram on Wednesday

A touch of sparkle: The reality star wore a tight gold Naked Wardrobe frock with chunky jewels

Kylie recently took daughter Stormi on the road with Travis Scott, joining him on his Astroworld Tour.

During Saturday's concert in Houston, Texas, he gave a shout out to his 'beautiful' wife and daughter.

He told the crowd at his Astroworld Festival: 'My beautiful wife, she came out. My beautiful daughter, she's here too.'

Regal: The 21-year-old beauty mogul wore a huge crown on her head

The couple - who first started dating in April last year - aren't believed to be married yet, and the 26-year-old star later softened the word wife by adding a 'y'.

Travis is fulfilling his 'life goal' by having his girlfriend and daughter on tour with him.

He said recently: 'I keep Stormi on the road, she's got her own dressing room vibe, got her own bus vibe. [My] life goal [is having her be] a part of what I'm living.

'It's so hard, because I grew up in a different household where I never had a nanny or nothing like that - my parents were never on a tour - so being able to do that and figure it out at 26, it's like hard, but when you're going through it, it's like, 'Oh this is dope.''

====== 391 ========

PUSHA T 'ACCUSES DRAKE' OF HIRING FANS TO ATTACK HIM AT TORONTO CONCERT

Pusha T was attacked on stage during his own concert — and he has an inkling who was responsible.

The rapper claimed 'some n***a' paid thugs to throw beer and try rush the stage on Tuesday night, and fans are pretty certain he was referring to bitter rival Drake.

Pusha escaped injury — but not a soaking — when he was forced to leave his show at Toronto's Nathan Phillips Square when the brawl broke out.

Feud: Pusha T 'has accused Drake' of hiring fans to attack him after drinks were hurled on stage during Toronto concert

'This n***a paid some n***a to throw beer, n***a! he declared after returning to the stage a short time afterward. 'F*** is that?'

Pusha and Drake's very public feud has shown no signs of simmering down; it came to a head in May when the former revealed via diss track the latter had a secret love child.

Video captured at the gig showed the 41-year-old (real name Terrence Thornton) performing his hit M.F.T.R. when beers started raining down on the stage.

Angry fans: Pusha T's Toronto concert on Tuesday night erupted into violence when several men threw beverages on the rapper and rushed the stage

Wet but safe: While early reports claimed that Pusha himself was jumped on the stage, a video from Apollo For the People Instagram clearly shows that he wasn't involved in the altercation that ultimately spilled onto the stage

Off stage: The video shows Pusha T, 41 (real name Terrence Thornton) on stage performing, when he's drenched by numerous beverages that were hurled onto the stage

As more and more beverages were thrown onto the stage, Pusha eventually exited as a number of unruly fans began to hop the barricade between the floor and the stage.

The brawl ultimately spilled onto the stage, where members of the rapper's security team tangled with the men before they eventually dispersed.

Pusha T later reached out to The Shade Room, revealing he was, 'untouched in the altercation and continued to perform after they cleared the stage.'

Stage brawl: Pusha T also reached out to The Shade Room, revealing he was, 'untouched in the altercation and continued to perform after they cleared the stage'

Unruly: The Shade Room also had video showing the brawl on stage from another angle

The Shade Room also had video showing the brawl on stage from another angle, showing how the fan who made it on stage managed to escape.

After the stage was cleared, Pusha T returned to play two more songs, but not before delivering a message to the audience.

'Y'all know where the f*** I'm from? You don't even know! Keep going in this b***h,' he said, before continuing the concert.

Aftermath: The Shade Room also had video showing the brawl on stage from another angle

Message to the crowd: After the stage was cleared, Pusha T returned to play two more songs, but not before delivering a message to the audience

Back to the show: 'Y'all know where the f*** I'm from? You don't even know! Keep going in this b***h,' he said, before continuing the concert

The fact the brawl occurred in Drake's hometown of Toronto did not escape many commentators.

Complex reports that, after the brawl, Pusha T went on to perform I Don't Like and The Story of Adidon — the infamous diss track —and that he blamed the brawl on Drake.

Just a week earlier, Pusha T had performed at Tyler the Creator's Camp Flog Gnaw, where he had a 'F*** Drake' graphic on display.

Pusha brawl: The brawl happening in Toronto may not be so surprising, since it's the hometown of his rival Drake

Back to the show: Complex reports that, after the brawl, Pusha T went on to perform I Don't Like and The Story of Adidon, and that he blamed the brawl on Drake

After the brawl, Pusha took to his Instagram story, sharing a series of brief videos taken from the stage.

One video was captioned with 'The show must go on,' while another said, 'I came to give y'all a show! I will give it to y'all!'

The final video on his Instagram story just said 'Goodnight Toronto,' showcasing the crowd cheering.

Standing tall: After the brawl, Pusha took to his Instagram story, sharing a series of brief videos taken from the stage

Show goes on: One video was captioned with 'The show must go on,' while another said, 'I came to give y'all a show! I will give it to y'all!'

====== 392 ========

BILLIE LOURD REVEALS THE THANKSGIVING TRICK SHE INHERITED FROM GRANDMOTHER DEBBIE REYNOLDS

Billie Lourd appeared on The Late Late Show with James Corden on Tuesday.

And the 26-year-old beauty let her fans in on a Thanksgiving hack she learned from her Hollywood legend grandmother Debbie Reynolds.

'What I do is lie, I bring something from a great restaurant and I put it in a sad little box and pretend like I did it,' the Scream Queens star revealed.

Dishing: Billie Lourd, 26, appeared on The Late Late Show with James Corden on Tuesday with guest Eric Bana

'Cooking is a dangerous thing for me, I’m pretty inept in the kitchen. It’s kind of scary, it’s a dangerous time,' she began while sitting next to Eric Bana.

'It’s kind of become a family tradition vibe, my grandmother used to do it. She used to do it very poorly. I do it better.'

She was referring to Debbie who was the mother of Billie's mom Carrie Fischer.

Carrie passed away on December 27, 2016 and Debbie died the next day.

Family secrets: And the beauty let her fans in on a Thanksgiving hack she learned from her Hollywood legend grandmother Debbie Reynolds

Lie time: 'What I do is lie, I bring something from a great restaurant and I put it in a sad little box and pretend like I did it,' the Scream Queens star revealed

Billie went on to say in the interview that Debbie would try to pass off fast food chain El Pollo Loco as her own homemade dishes for the holiday.

She also told the story of joining the Backstreet Boys on stage after her latest season of American Horror Story wrapped.

Meanwhile, Billie says American Horror Story helped 'save her life' when she was dealing with the loss of her mother.

Family affair: 'It’s kind of become a family tradition vibe, my grandmother used to do it. She used to do it very poorly. I do it better.' She was referring to Debbie Reynolds who was the mother of Billie's mom Carrie Fischer; (pictured 2015)

She has now praised executive producer Ryan Murphy for helping to pull her out of a dark place.

Billie said: 'When Ryan offered me Cult, it was just a few months after my mom passed, and it honestly helped me process all of my emotions through these characters.'

She continued: 'Being able to cry for Winter helped me cry for myself.'

The young actress added that the process of acting has helped her heal.

'And it's been really healing and cathartic in an amazing way,' she explained.

====== 393 ========

KATE MIDDLETON STEPS OUT IN RECYCLED BURGUNDY SKIRT SUIT TO VISIT UCL

They are both renowned for their elegant wardrobes, so it is perhaps of little surprise the Duchess of Sussex and the Duchess of Cambridge have similar ideas when it comes to pulling together a stylish winter look.

Sister-in-laws Meghan, 37, and Kate, 36, stepped out in chic ensembles in almost the exact same shade of burgundy as they carried out separate engagements in London today.

Thrifty Kate recycled a berry-coloured double breasted blazer and skirt by French label Paule Ka as she visited University College London.

Hours earlier mother-to-be Meghan, who is expecting her first child with Prince Harry next spring, donned a £282 Club Monaco dress in a strikingly similar shade as she visited the Hubb Community Kitchen to meet survivors of the Grenfell Tower tragedy.

Speaking to FEMAIL, celebrity stylist Rochelle White and Scott Henshall, former creative director of Mulberry, weighed in on how each royal wore the colour - and what their outfits say about their individual styles.

Scroll down for video

Burgundy beauty: The Duchess of Cambridge was spotted in a double breasted blazer and skirt by French label Paule Ka in a warm shade of burgundy as she visited University College London on Wednesday

Two of a kind! Hours earlier mother-to-be Meghan, who is expecting her first child with Prince Harry next spring, donned a £282 berry-coloured dress from favourite Candian brand Club Monaco as she visited the Hubb Community Kitchen to meet survivors of the Grenfell Tower tragedy

Double take: Celebrity stylist Rochelle White said while Kate and Meghan's outfits are in similar colours, each has chosen items that suit their individual style

Rochelle noted that Kate's combination of a fitted black turtleneck with a burgundy two-piece has an air of 'sophistication', while Meghan's ensemble suggests a more 'relaxed and fun' take on the colour.

She said: 'Kate's outfit has a look of sophistication to it. With the sheer black tights and finished off with a high neck jumper or dress, it gives off a classy look.

'This is a classic Kate look I think. Sleek, stylish and represents her and her style. She added a simple black bag that finished off the look.

'Meanwhile with Meghan’s outfit I feel that this was a lot more relaxed and fun. With the purple on purple or burgundy colour it really compliments her skin tone.

'I think that Meghan has chosen an outfit that trendy, fun and a good representation of her and her growing style into the royals.'

Twice as nice! The Duchess Of Cambridge, 36, rocked winter chic in a burgundy double breasted blazer and skirt by Paule Ka for a visit to University College London

Smiling Kate looked in great spirits as she arrived at UCL to learn more about groundbreaking research on child development. The Duchess wore her hair neatly curled and swept back in a ponytail tied with a ribbon

The Duchess looked animated during a discussion at the MRI Scanning Facility where she learned about UCL’s groundbreaking research on how early experience shapes brain function

That outfit looks familiar! Kate last wore her trusty Paule Ka suit on a visit to the Caerphilly Family Intervention Team in Wales in February 2017 (left). The Duchess first sported the outfit in October 2012 on while meeting recipients of the Queen Mother Scholarship, the Diana, Princess of Wales Scholarship and the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge Scholarships at Middle Temple Inn

Fashion verdict: Two style experts weigh in Expert take: Scott Henshall, former Creative Director of Mulberry, pictured, gave his verdict on Kate and Meghan's burgundy looks Celebrity stylist Rochelle White said: 'Kate's outfit has a look of sophistication to it. With the sheer black tights and finished off with a high neck jumper or dress, it gives off a classy look. 'This is a classic Kate look I think. Sleek, stylish and represents her and her style. She added a simple black bag that finished off the look. 'Meanwhile with Meghan’s outfit I feel that this was a lot more relaxed and fun. With the purple on purple or burgundy colour it really compliments her skin tone. 'I think that Meghan has chosen an outfit that trendy, fun and a good representation of her and her growing style into the royals.' She added burgundy is a great colour to introduce to a winter wardrobe without it becoming 'overpowering'. Scott Henshall, former Creative Director of Mulberry, said: 'Kate and Meghan are incredible style icons, who’ve changed the face of British royal fashion. They both have their own fashion identities, which have become synonymous with their public persona. 'Meghan, hailing from the States and a completely different culture, is naturally more willing to experiment with new styles. Kate is much more sophisticated and tends to go for classic looks. 'Burgundy is definitely the mood this season, as there’s still a pop of colour - which is very much need with the drab weather that comes with Autumn/Winter. 'They both wore the colour in completely different ways, with Kate opting for a classic and sophisticated look, by opting for a tailored buttoned up jacket. Meghan, on the other hand, chose to be effortlessly chic, letting the coat hang loose and unbuttoned. Both looks are befitting for a modern day princess.'

Scott Henshall, former Creative Director of Mulberry, agreed: 'They both wore the colour in completely different ways, with Kate opting for a classic and sophisticated look, by opting for a tailored buttoned up jacket.

'Meghan, on the other hand, chose to be effortlessly chic, letting the coat hang loose and unbuttoned. Both looks are befitting for a modern day princess.'

The Duchess' visit marked the launch of the new phase of her work championing the importance of early intervention with vulnerable young children to prevent problems in later life.

Kate visited the Developmental Risk and Resilience Unit in the Psychology and Language Sciences Division at University College London to learn more about their work on the issue.

As well as talking to researchers, led by Professor Eamon McCrory, co-director of the unit, she was shown the its MRI Scanning facility and was told about about the university's ground-breaking research on how early experiences can shape brain function and develop both socially and emotionally.

Mother-of-three Kate guarded against the winter chill in a wool skirt suit, teamed with a black polo neck. The nipped in style of the jacket showcased Kate's slim waist

And the duchess had clearly done her homework as she machine-gunned the team with questions.

‘Is this type of work spoken about amongst families?’ She asked.

‘Is the idea as well that you follow the child you are looking at into adulthood? It would be really fascinating

‘The research in general, have they [the children and their families] got much understanding of the bigger picture? Do you not divulge too much?

‘What is so fascinating is the way all this research is so new and is changing so rapidly.’

Earlier this year, the duchess set up a steering group made up of practitioners and academics, including neuroscientists, mental health workers, nurses, perinatal care staff and teachers, to research and develop an ‘action plan’ to make a positive difference on the lives of children by focusing on their early years.

The Duchess of Cambridge is meeting with Professor Eamon McCrory and his team to learn more about their research on childhood development. The royal kept her look clean and simple, accessorising with an understated black clutch bag

Afterwards she chatted with Professor McCrory his colleague, Professor Peter Fonagy, head of UCL Psychology and Language Sciences, whom she knows well through her role as patron of the Anna Freud National Centre for Children and Families.

Bouncing into the room, the duchess said her experience in the MRI suite had been ‘fascinating’.

‘What kind of impact is this research having?’ She asked.

‘How can this help with prevention? ‘

She was particularly keen to discuss how their research could be translated into practical help for families and the wider community.

‘It’s trying to translate the amazing research you are doing here into something that parents can understand,’ she remarked.

Radiant: The glowing Duchess chose a dress with a pretty velvet colour for the engagement

‘What do you feel is going to make the difference in this field? Is it increased funding? Is it awareness about the importance of early years intervention?’

She added: ‘You hear a lot from people who have addiction in the family: [who ask] have they any chance at all in being able to change the outcome? When you have got addiction stretching across three generations, can you change what will happen?’

Kate also revealed that at St Andrews University, where she met her husband, Prince William, she studied psychology.

‘I started off doing psychology at St Andrews, with History of Art,’ she said.

She added, laughing: ‘ It was a bit full on, but it was really interesting.’

Asking the staff about what they hope to achieve, Prof McCrory told her the crux of their research was: ‘Real understanding of the pathways to mental health problems and the fact that although we see it here, its been starting at two, three and four.

‘If we can understand the pathways at each stage that will allow us to intervene, help and support then we can shift children off those trajectories. At the moment we know what depression looks like int he brain but we don’t know a lot about where it came from. ‘

Professor Fonagy added: ‘ How do you get someone to speak more to their kid? We need to communicate to people, whether they be policy makers or parents. We know it is really good to speak to your children, but getting people to do that is not so simple. ‘

As she left the unit, in Bloomsbury, central London, Kate thanked them ‘for all you are doing’ and said her time there had been ‘inspiring’.

Sleek and stylish: Pregnant Meghan wore a coat and dress from Club Monaco's main fashion line, showing she's not ready to embrace maternity fashion just yet

Prof McCrory said afterwards: ‘I’m really interested in terms of how early experience can get under the skin in ways that unfold over the life span. We look at types of early adversity and we how that see how that is associated with brain structures and function.

‘It’s important to note that’s not reflecting my kind of damage. Rather that these are children adapting to early a-typical environments that in the long term increase vulnerability to mental health problems. How can looking at the early years help us to prevent problems before they emerge?

‘The Duchess is fantastic. Her level of interest is extraordinary and she has a genuine interest and hunger to understand the science and really think about how the science can help us re-frame our approach to early years and help parents and families, and society to understand the critical importance of the first few years of life. If we are able to develop ways to support children and parents and how as society we invest.

‘It is hugely encouraging and huge positive to have her involved. It helps to widen public awareness off the early years and neuroscience is just one lens that we can use to understand what is happening. ‘

Prof Fonagy added: ‘In the seminar she was really very engaged asked brilliant questions. She is genuinely interested in finding out how this will help people and how can she can translate what we are doing into something that is helpful to parents and children.’

====== 394 ========

UFC FIGHTER RACHAEL OSTOVICH BREAKS HER SILENCE AFTER HER HUSBAND WAS ARRESTED FOR ATTEMPTED MURDER

Rachael Ostovich has broken her silence after her husband, boxer Arnold Berdon, was arrested for attempted murder in connection with her brutal beating in Hawaii on Sunday.

The 27-year-old UFC fighter took to Instagram on Wednesday morning to tell her 368K followers, 'Spent time praying for people instead of talking about them.' In the background were trees covered in fog. And the athlete added three prayer emojis.

The beauty was beaten so badly had her orbital bone - a socket of the skull in which the eye and its appendages are situated - was broken, as well as other injuries, and she had to stay in the hospital overnight.

Sad turn: Rachael Ostovich has broken her silence after her husband, boxer Arnold Berdon, was arrested for attempted murder in connection with her brutal beating in Hawaii on Sunday

Her words: The 27-year-old UFC fighter took to Instagram on Wednesday morning to tell her 368K followers, 'Spent time praying for people instead of talking about it.' In the background were trees covered in fog. And the athlete added three prayer emojis

He knows how to throw a punch: Arnold is seen here during a tense boxing match

A source told MMAfighter.com that she has been recovering at home.

She married Arnold in 2016 and together they have daughter Ruby Rose.

He was arrested on Monday evening on suspicion of second degree attempted murder and remains behind bars in a Honolulu jail, TMZ reports.

Since the incident his Instagram and Twitter pages have been made private.

Suddenly quiet: Since the incident his Instagram and Twitter pages have been made private

Halloween fun: They were seen on Halloween in October as Egyptians royalty with their daughter Ruby Rose

A family member told the website that Berdon plans to deny in court any allegations he assaulted his wife.

It was added that Arnold 'is seeking a lawyer and intends to defend himself against allegations he attacked his wife. He will argue he was attacked first and defended himself.'

Earlier on Monday, Ostovich filed a restraining order against Berdon, 27. She has allegedly 'pointed the finger' at her husband, which led her to file the restraining order, sources told TMZ.

The order was granted and set to stay in effect until May 18, 2019, which police have been investigating as a felony domestic violence case.

Her injuries have led Ostovich to cancel her January 19 fight with Paige VanZant in Brooklyn.

A tough boxer taken down: Rachael is a skilled boxer - seen here with Melinda Fabian in 2017 - but was still brutally injured on Sunday

Sad situation: Rachael was beaten up so badly in Hawaii this week, she had to be sent to the hospital. It has forced her to cancel a fight wit Paige VanZant

'The victim suffered head injuries and was treated at a hospital,' spokesperson Sarah Yoro told the MMAFighter site.

The attack happened at 2 am Sunday morning at a residence in the Waianae section of Honolulu County, Yoro said.

Honolulu police does not release the names of those involved in alleged crimes, it was added.

Ostovich's Sucker Punch Entertainment management released a statement on Monday evening.

Family portrait: Here the couple are seen out to dinner with daughter Ruby

'A very unfortunate incident occurred Sunday night with Rachael Ostovich that ended with her suffering a fractured orbital and other injuries.

'Rachael is now home from the hospital with family and will be going back for further check ups on her orbital. The family would like to ask for some privacy as they sort through this matter. We would like to thank the UFC for all their support on this matter as well as the fans and media for your concern.'

According to her Instagram page, she wed to fighter Berdon, 27, in April 2016, although now that a restraining order has been filed, divorce papers may soon follow.

The bride and groom: According to her Instagram page, she wed to fighter Berdon, 27, in April 2016

Rachael often posts sexy bikini photos on the beach, earning her 356K followers on Instagram.

Her last portrait was a flashback bathing suit photo on the beach with the caption: 'Missin those summer days.'

The fight with VanZant would have elevated her career greatly.

Roadblock for her: The fight with VanZant would have elevated her career greatly

Ostovich is an American mixed martial artist who competes in the Flyweight division of UFC and weighs 125lbs.

Rachael began her career in 2010 when she was an amateur with the Mixed Martial Arts - in 2014 she went professional.

She moved on to The Ultimate Fighter in August 2017 and four months later she joined The Ultimate Fighter 26 Finale. She won the fight via armbar submission in the first round.

Her last big fight was with Montana de la Rosa in July at The Ultimate Fighter 27 Finale.

Tough time: This is the last Instagram post from Ostovich; she looks to be in Hawaii

====== 395 ========

TESS HOLLIDAY TROLLS HER OWN TROLLS WITH PIG PICTURE AND RUDE CAPTION

Tess Holliday trolled her own trolls on Tuesday with an Instagram post in which she refers to herself as a ‘fat pig.’

The 33-year-old model took to social media to post a photo of herself sitting with a cute baby pit snuggling in her lap.

‘Just two fat pigs hangin out being cute,’ she captioned the image, adding emoji of a pig snout and pink hearts.

Witty: Tess Holliday posted a picture of herself with a rescued pig this week

Take that! ‘Just two fat pigs hangin out being cute,’ she captioned the image, adding emoji of a pig snout and pink hearts

Cute! The pig was rescued by comedian Whitney Cummings. Tess has initially shared this snap of them together

Ew: One commenter left a rude quip about her weight, prompting a response from Tess' partner Nick — and a new image and caption from Tess herself

In the picture, Tess appears to be sitting on the couch with a blue blanket in her lap.

Her hair is up and she wears a black tank top, and a small pig sits in her lap.

As she explained in the caption of another picture - a similar snap in which comedian Whitney Cummings sits with her and the pig - the animal is actually staying with Whitney.

She wrote that the ‘sweet 4 week old piggy’ was rescued from the fires in Southern California, and Whitney is 'fostering him until he is ready to go to his forever home'.

'She was gracious enough to let me go over last night and cuddle the sweet guy & give him thousands of nose touches!' she went on.

'Also special shout-out to you Whitney, you’ve not only rescued so many animals during the fires the past week (& reunited some with their owners!), but helped so many families & you’re a special human being!'

Most of the commenters left effusive compliments on the post, though as always with Tess, there were a few critics who insulted her weight.

‘Idk the pig is kinda ugly, what’s in the blanket?’ wrote one.

Feelin' good! Tess is comfortable with her body and happily shows it off online

The girls: This week she shared a few busty photos in her Insta Stories

Whatever: She didn't seem to be letting the trolls get her down

That nasty comment earned a response from Tess’ partner Nick, who replied: ‘This is such a poorly constructed joke when it was SO EASY to get it right. If you’re going to be rude, at least be witty.’

Nick’s snarky reply seems to have inspired Tess’ own joke about ‘fat pigs’ on her subsequent post.

Tess also posed several sexy, barely-dressed images and videos in her Insta Stories on Tuesday, in which she showed off her ample cleavage.

Earlier this month, the model appeared on Busy Philipps' new talk show, Busy Tonight, where she the host asked about her social media presence and how she is unafraid to express her sexuality.

To that, Tess responded: 'I think it is important to tell people that fat folks have bomb sex.'

She continued: 'I want to feel sexy. I want to be sexy, whether I am having sex or not... The world just wants to cover up marginalized bodies, and I'm not here for it.'

The model previously spoke about her sex life with her husband, Nick Holliday, in an interview with Cosmopolitan.

Chit-chat: Tess appeared on Busy Tonight with Busy Philipps earlier this month

Advocate: She spoke with Busy about her social media platform and how she expresses her sexuality

Exciting! Tess thanked Busy for helping her to meet Tina Fey

‘Sex, to me, is a way for me to connect with my partner and for me to feel empowered and good,' she said.

'You know, I've had a lot of bad sex my whole life, so it's nice to have good sex now. And if you're doing sex right, then it should be messy.'

Couple: Tess Holliday pictured with her partner Nick Holliday

On Busy's show, Tess explained why social media has become important to spreading her message.

'I use my social media to tell people to stop hiding, stop listening to society... Just be yourself and own it,' she said.

While appearing on the show, Tess also had the opportunity to meet Tina Fey, of whom she is a big fan. She shares a selfie the pair had posed for together.

'There aren’t many celebrities that mean a lot to me, (bc they are normal folks like all of us... I know I’m a “celeb” but we fangirl too ok?!) BUT I’ve always admired Tina Fey for many reasons & hoped to one day cross paths with her & hope to not shit myself from nervousness (& happy to report, I didn’t!),' she wrote.

'She is just as nice, humble & authentic as you would hope. Plus I’m pretty sure I’m Liz Lemon IRL. Thanks to my friend @busyphilipps for making this happen & for having me as a guest on @busytonighttv!'

====== 396 ========

DIDDY CONTINUES TO HONOR LATE EX KIM PORTER ON SOCIAL MEDIA WITH NEW TRIBUTE POST OF THE MODEL

Sean 'Diddy' Combs has been fervent in his tributes to his late ex Kim Porter who died suddenly at the age of 47.

The mogul took to Instagram, where he has been posting frequent heartfelt messages, to share another sweet moment with Kim playing the piano on Wednesday.

Kim died last Thursday after suffering from a bout of pneumonia but her exact cause of death is unknown.

Honoring Kim: Diddy posted a new tribute video on social media showing off his late ex Kim Porter's skills at the piano on Wednesday

Tragic: Kim Porter died suddenly at the age of 47 last Thursday after a bout of pneumonia. She is pictured here with Diddy in 2005

The social video posted by the rapper showed Kim sitting in a tight red dress on the bench of a large black baby grand piano.

Her long dark hair was pulled into tight braided pigtails.

Kim played a beautiful tune on the piano before being interrupted by barking dogs.

'Wait for it,' the 49-year-old captioned the video.

'Yeah she could play the piano too:' The 49-year-old wrote in the caption about his late ex

He was referring to the moment when Kim, distracted by the barking, shoots the pups an epic look.

Diddy continued in the caption: '@ladykp miss you Bonnie ❤️ yeah she could play the piano too. She also loved to sing.'

The Bad Boy records owner's inner circle has been rocked by the tragic loss of Kim, with whom he shares three children.

The model's death certificate, which was obtained by The Blast, lists her cause of death as 'deferred.'

'Wait for it:' The video captured a candid moment of Kim flashing a hysterical dirty look at the dogs whose barking interrupted her performance

Her sudden passing will hopefully be explained by forthcoming results of a toxicology report.

Since news broke of Kim's death, Diddy has posted several tributes to his late ex on social media.

The couple had been on and off for over a decade and following their split, the pair continued to co-parent their children and remained like family with one another.

After learning of her death, Diddy was spotted leaning on his other ex, Cassie Ventura, for solace.

Sharing: Over the last week, the Bad Boy Records honcho has shared personal images and videos showing Kim as a fun, youthful mom who loved life

On Monday, Diddy shared some videos from inside his Bel Air mansion of the intimate memorial for his ex and mother of three of his children.

Huge framed photos of the model lined the steps of the rap mogul's home, flanked by lit candles.

The Bad Boy head honcho spent much of Sunday and Monday posting photo after photo of he and Porter on social media.

Staying close: Despite their breakup many years ago, the former couple remained like family with one another

Co-parenting: Kim and Diddy share three children together and spent holidays together as a family

The 49-year-old father seemed to find it cathartic to publish the tributes, which included a behind the scenes video from an old photo shoot with his ex back when she was pregnant.

In the caption for that emotional post, Diddy poured out his heart to his late love.

'For the last three days I’ve been trying to wake up out of this nightmare. But I haven’t,' Diddy wrote on Instagram.

Last respects: On Monday, Diddy shared some videos from inside his Bel Air mansion of the intimate memorial for his ex and mother of three of his children

She will be missed: Huge framed photos of the model lined the steps of the rap mogul's home, flanked by lit candles

'I don’t know what I’m going to do without you baby. I miss you so much. Today I’m going to pay tribute to you, I’m going to try and find the words to explain our unexplainable relationship,' he continued.

In another caption of a short video of Kim dancing at an event, the rapper expressed gratitude for all the support from friends and fans.

'She loved to dance,' he began. 'Thank you to everybody for your prayers and support. God is the greatest. He woke you up to see another day. Please don’t take it for granted. Let’s go people!!!'

====== 397 ========

JOANNA GAINES ADMITS SHE STRUGGLED WITH HER CHILDREN WANTING TO DECORATE THEIR OWN ROOMS

Joanna Gaines is known for her cozy-yet-cool designs, but she admits she has to scale back on the vision of her home in Texas to allow her children to add their own personalities to their personal spaces.

The 40-year-old Fixer Upper star and her husband, Chip, renovated their farmhouse in Waco to reflect their design aesthetic. However, the oldest of their five children are starting to have their own views about how their rooms should look.

'In the past it was hard,' she said recently in an interview, explaining she had to shift her thinking to, 'This is their space. This is what makes them come alive, I need to encourage that.'

Confession: Joanna Gaines (pictured at The Greenwich Hotel in New York) has admitted that she initially struggled with letting her kids decorate their own spaces

Opening up: The Fixer Upper star said she had to tell herself, 'This is their space. This is what makes them come alive, I need to encourage that'

Joanna said this principle especially applies to her two oldest children, son Drake, 13, and daughter Ella, 11.

She and Chip are also parents to son Duke, 10, daughter Emmie, eight, and baby Crew, who was born in June.

'In the main spaces I get to do my thing and incorporate some things that they love, but for their rooms, especially this year, there's stuff they're wanting in their room that I wouldn't put in there originally,' she admitted.

'But now it's fun to watch their room evolve into their personality and give them the freedom to do it.'

Joanna remembers that she, too, had her own flair growing up.

Against her aesthetic: Joanna said there is stuff her older children want in their rooms that she 'wouldn't put in there originally'

Kids will be kids: Last week, the mother of five revealed on Instagram that her daughter Emmie wrote all over her bathroom counter with a marker

'I was into cats. I had cat posters everywhere and my mom let me do it,' she said.

Last week, the mother of five revealed on Instagram that her 'heart stopped for a second' when she walked into her daughter Emmie's bathroom and saw she had written all over the counter with what looked like Sharpie marker.

'Hi God what are you doing?' Emmie wrote in the middle of a drawing.

Joanna explained that after she took a moment to really read what Emmie wrote, she thought: 'Well that isn't the worst thing to be permanent.' However, when she touched it, she realized it was erasable.

'I stared at her question and loved the thought of it and that that’s how she talks to God,' Joanna wrote.

'May her faith always stay childlike and may I remember what she seems to already know. That God is the most relational and the most kind, and always near.'

Learning: Joanna said it's become fun to watch their rooms evolve to match their personalities

Joanna and her husband became household names thanks to Fixer Upper, their home design and renovation reality series that aired on HGTV from 2013 to 2017.

Much to their fans' delight, she and Chip are planning on a return to TV. The couple confirmed they are in discussions with Discovery about creating a lifestyle-focused network.

Guide: In her new book, Homebody, Joanna details how she makes a house a home

In the meantime, Joanna is promoting her new book, Homebody: A Guide to Creating Spaces You Never Want to Leave, which was published earlier this month.

In the guide, she details how she makes a house a home, sharing examples from her own farmhouse as well as other homes she has worked on.

While speaking with The Associated Press, Joanna opened up about her design process, starting with the first thing she thinks about when it comes to decorating.

'I think, "OK, how are people going to be walking in and out? What's the pass-through?" I want the traffic,' she said.

'I kind of just try to figure out the footprint and then I start thinking about, "Where do you put the sofa? Where do you fit the chair or a coffee table?" Then from there, I start adding the bookshelves, stuff on the wall.

'But I think for me the seating is important because that's where everyone is congregating. That's the most important thing.'

Stars: Joanna and her husband, Chip, became household names thanks to Fixer Upper, their home design and renovation reality series that aired on HGTV from 2013 to 2017

At home: Joanna (pictured in her bedroom with her baby boy, Crew) said she loves 'the contrast of black and white'

Joanna has a knack for incorporating interesting pieces into her interior designs, but she stressed that these things won't always come together all at once.

'I think people need to know that it takes time,' she said. 'You can find things at flea markets, antique stores or even online. It becomes like a treasure hunt.'

When it comes to the fine line between home decor and clutter, Joanna admitted that 'a lot of this is gut instinct.'

'What I feel is enough may not be enough for others,' she explained. 'I think when you're looking at your space and you feel like, "OK, I think I've got it," you can stop.'

Joanna is a fan of open-concept floor plans, farmhouse sinks, sliding barn doors, and neutrals, but she isn't one to shy away from color.

'I love the contrast of black and white and I think it's timeless and no matter what style or genre, black and white can fit into that,' she said. 'I love to implement color with rugs and pillows and art. But if I'm working with clients who love color, I'm all about a colored sofa or piece of furniture.

'Tis the season: Joanna revealed on Instagram that she and her husband bought a 13-foot-tall Christmas tree on Sunday — four days before Thanksgiving

Classic look: When it comes to decorating for Christmas, Joanna said she likes to keep it 'simple' with 'subtle colors'

'For me, I love a neutral palette, I think it's calming,' she added. 'But I like keeping it simple and layering colors in later so then when I'm tired of it, I can shift that out simply with a pillow.'

Joanna noted that she thinks it is 'so fun' to work with a client who has a different style than she does.

'To me, it's a way of getting things out through other people,' she said. 'For me, we're staying at the farmhouse, so it's a fun way to try out other styles.'

With the holidays right around the corner, Joanna also dished about how she goes about decorating her own home for Christmas.

'Thinking about the farmhouse, I love just layering in the textures and so it's really simple. Obviously the tree, the garland and the stockings, but simple, subtle colors. That's when there's red, the pillows, the throw blankets, the tree skirt,' she said.

Joanna revealed on Instagram that she and her husband bought a 13-foot-tall Christmas tree on Sunday — four days before Thanksgiving.

'The holidays can be really busy and home is a place where we can unwind and rest,' she said. 'If there's too much clutter, I think it's hard for all of us to feel at ease. I try to keep it minimal but bring in the reds and greens.'

====== 398 ========

IS THIS WHERE MEGHAN AND DORIA MARKLE SLEPT BEFORE THE ROYAL WEDDING?

A new documentary is set to give an insight into life at Cliveden House - where Meghan and her mother Doria stayed the night before the royal wedding.

Channel 4's A Very British Country House shows staff at the five-star hotel in Berkshire getting into a frenzy as they prepared to welcome a top secret VIP guest, from chefs in the kitchen to the maintenance men.

One of the hotel's Grade I-listed suites, featuring a plush bed and antique furniture, is seen being painted ahead of the arrival - with speculation mounting over who the guest might be.

It is not clear whether this is the exact room that the Duchess of Sussex, 37, stayed in on the night before her wedding - but it is likely that she would have stayed in a similar suite in May.

Channel 4's A Very British Country House shows staff at Cliveden House, Berkshire - where Meghan and Doria stayed the night before the royal wedding - getting into a frenzy as they prepared to welcome a top secret VIP guest. It is not clear if this is the exact room where Meghan stayed, but it was repainted before the arrival of an important visitor

Staff ensured they laid on the red-carpet treatment for Meghan and her mother Doria, 62, when they stayed at the £1,500-a-night hotel, set in nearly 400 acres of National Trust countryside.

Speaking about the 'honour' of having Meghan stay at the hotel, butler Michael says in the programme: 'Various different people had various different ideas about who it might have been or might not have been.

'We were all very excited when we found who it was. We felt like we'd pulled the plum on that one. It was an exciting honour. It's nice to be part of such of a big, and world-wide event.'

General manager Kevin, who greeted Meghan and her mother Doria on their arrival, added: 'It was just the most beautiful wedding, and the most beautiful day.

The Duchess of Sussex, 37, and her mother Doria Ragland (above, arriving at the hotel) stayed at the five-star Cliveden Hotel, Berkshire, on the night before the royal wedding in May

Staff at the hotel (above, the exterior) revealed the Meghan effect has been in full action at the hotel in the aftermath of the wedding, with numbers of guests soaring

'For Cliveden to have just a very small part of that, albeit the night before, was just amazing'.

He revealed that the Meghan effect has been in full action at the hotel in the aftermath of the wedding, with numbers of guests soaring after two million people watched the Duchess leaving Cliveden with Doria on the morning of her wedding.

Staff revealed that the number of wedding enquiries for Cliveden had also risen since Harry and Meghan's big day, although there were still some concerns about negative Trip Advisor reviews.

In the first episode of the Channel 4, the careful preparation that goes into welcoming a VIP guest to the hotel was evident during the first episode of the Channel 4 documentary.

Speaking about the speculation over who the visitor might be, receptionist Chloe said: 'We know that it's going to be someone that's higher-ranking in the VIP world.

In the Channel 4 documentary, maintenance man Mark was seen repainting a luxury suite ahead of the special visitor, but admitted he didn't know who the guest was

Mark explained he had been asked by hotel management to 're-paint the bad areas of the room' (above) ahead of the arrival of the special visitor

The documentary offers a glimpse into the luxurious interiors of the Grade I listed suites at the hotel where the Duchess of Sussex stayed ahead of the royal wedding

'There are a lot of whispers, it's a bit of a guessing game as to who it is. It's definitely putting the pressure on us big time.'

Meanwhile, maintenance man Mark was seen repainting a luxury suite ahead of the special visitor, but admitted he didn't know who the guest was.

'There's a VIP coming that wants to stay this room. We've been asked by the management to basically re-paint the bad areas of the room,' he explained.

Kensington Palace announced just days before the royal wedding on May 19 that Meghan and her mother Doria would be staying at the Cliveden House, where previous guests have included the likes of Winston Churchill, Charlie Chaplin and the Queen Mother.

Harry stayed 15 miles away at the Dorchester Collection’s Coworth Park in Ascot, close to the Guards Polo Club, with his best man and brother the Duke of Cambridge.

A Very British Country House airs on Channel 4 at 9pm on Sunday.

Staff ensured they laid on the red-carpet treatment for Meghan and her mother Doria, with lavish floral displays in the hotel reception (above)

In the documentary, it is revealed that wedding enquiries at Cliveden have soared since Harry and Meghan's big day. Pictured is one of the rooms being prepared for a wedding

====== 399 ========

PARIS JACKSON WATCHES 'BOYFRIEND' GABRIEL GLENN PERFORM AT THE VIPER ROOM IN HOLLYWOOD

Her dad Michael packed out stadiums and performed in front of millions.

But Paris Jackson looked like she preferred a more intimate gig as she watched rumored boyfriend Gabriel Glenn perform at the The Viper Room recently.

The 20-year-old was front and center of the small crowd gathered at the famed Hollywood venue on Sunset Boulevard.

Good show: Paris Jackson, left, watched rumored boyfriend Gabriel Glenn, right, perform at the The Viper Room in Hollywood recently

Fan: The star was seen taking photos of her beau, right, who almost appeared blonde in the spotlight on stage

Paris wasn't just there as a fan either; she served as roady, helping the band haul gear before and after the performance.

She even helped out with videography, dropping to her knees to film the band on her phone.

Besides her man, Paris also had family there performing: her cousin and Michael Jackson's nephew, Austin Brown.

Gabriel is in another band too, made up of just himself and 'girlfriend' Paris, called The Soundflowers.

Duet: Gabriel and Paris have their own band called The Soundflowers; here they are seen together in August

They formed the group in June; he plays the acoustic guitar and she plays ukulele, while they both sing.

While Gabriel goes by his own name in the band, Paris goes under the moniker PK Dragonfly.

Despite some PDAs, the pair have not officially emerged as a couple; some reports insist they are just friends, while others claim they are bound for the altar.

Stuck in: Here Paris is seen talking to the drummer who was shirtless with a black vest on

They played a very loved up gig — their second ever — in LA in August, at a Canyon Sessions cancer fundraiser.

A delighted Paris told her 3.4million Instagram followers that her grandmother Katherine came to support and loved the music.

'F**k. i can't believe my grandma made it to our second live show ever. and she actually liked it!?!!!' she shared.

The model, who previously confirmed via Instagram AMA she is bisexual, was in a former relationship with drummer Michael Snoddy and was recently linked to model Cara Delevingne.

====== 400 ========

CLAIRE FOY TURNS SWEDISH AVENGING ANGEL IN NEW FILM THE GIRL IN THE SPIDER’S WEB

The Girl in the Spider's Web (15)

Rating:

Robin Hood (12A)

Rating:

Honestly, you’d think Claire Foy might have worked harder to avoid being typecast. After glittering in Netflix series The Crown as Queen Elizabeth II — Lilibet to her nearest and dearest — here she is playing Her Majesty’s near-namesake, Lisbeth, in The Girl In The Spider’s Web.

Admittedly, this Lisbeth is a humourless, hard-knock, chain-smoking lesbian with a nose ring and a massive dragon tattoo on her back, from whom you wouldn’t want a tap on the shoulder with a ceremonial sword just in case she got the sudden urge to decapitate you and drop-kick your head into a wheelie-bin.

But still, another Lisbeth. How unimaginative.

Hang-ups: Claire Foy with a wrecked car in The Girl In The Spider’s Web and (inset) stringing up a baddie

This one, Lisbeth Salander, is the avenging angel created by the late Stieg Larsson, although the film is based on the first of the so-called Millennium series of novels to be written after Larsson’s death, by David Lagercrantz.

In the previous movie adaptations, our fearsome heroine was played first by Noomi Rapace and then Rooney Mara. But Foy is the first British actress to take the role, and if ever there was a feature-length audition for a woman to be the next James Bond, this is it.

There’s even a fiendish and distinctly Bond-like plot to hack into the world’s nuclear defence systems, a cyber-attack which nobody but Salander can foil, albeit with the help of a prodigiously gifted child called August (Christopher Convery), whose boffin father, Frans, is played by Stephen Merchant.

It’s not entirely clear where Frans is meant to come from, incidentally, but it’s almost certainly not the suburbs of Bristol.

Yet Merchant’s rolling Bristolian vowels remain intact, while Foy treats us to a Swedish accent as heavy and unwieldy as a flat-pack Ikea wardrobe.

There she is in the foreground sounding like ABBA’s Anni-Frid, while a Swedish TV reporter in the background sounds like ITN’s Anna Ford. All I ask for is consistency.

Never mind. Whatever the loose state of her vowels, if Salander is to save the world she must first save herself, which she does by diving into a bath to escape an inferno.

She also eludes her pursuers by riding a motorbike across a frozen lake, dodges no end of machine-gun bullets and is more computer-savvy than everyone in Silicon Valley put together. She has a penchant for leggy blondes, too, making her more 007 than 007.

Claire Foy plays Lisbeth Salander in Columbia Pictures 'The Girl in the Spider's Web'

Or she would be, if she weren’t also a firebrand feminist on a mission to string up every abusive man by the you-know-whats, her anger stoked by memories of the paedophilic crimes committed on her and her sister by their own father. Knowing that, you’ll understand why a friend of mine described reading Larsson’s books as akin to being repeatedly battered over the head with a rolled-up copy of The Guardian.

Watching this film is less painful, since the action skips nimbly from set-piece to set-piece, Foy is terrific even with the dodgy accent and the dialogue is not as leaden as it might be.

One of the screenwriters, along with Jay Basu and director Fede Alvarez, is the estimable Steven Knight, who, long ago, in what must seem like another life entirely, was one of the creators of Who Wants To Be A Millionaire?.

Perhaps in homage to the show that made Knight rich, Salander gets to phone a friend, her journalist pal Mikael Blomkvist (Sverrir Gudnason). He’s the one person in Stockholm who knows what makes her tick.

As a thoroughly ludicrous but nevertheless pacy plot unfolds, it turns out there’s another person, even closer to home, who knows what makes her tick. But you’ll get no spoilers here.

The spoiler in the case of Robin Hood is the 1938 version of the same folk story, which was superior in every way. ‘Forget what you’ve seen before, forget what you think you know,’ says a hopeful voice-over at the beginning.

Chance would be a fine thing. For the rest of the film, what we’ve seen before stands as a reproach to the nonsense we’re served up here.

Of course, there have been countless cinematic efforts (both before and since Michael Curtiz’s classic The Adventures Of Robin Hood) to tell the story of Sherwood Forest’s stalwart thief.

Some have been more than watchable. But quite why this one was made is anybody’s guess, especially as Nottingham appears to have been relocated to the Balkans. I don’t doubt that the East Midlands looked different in the Middle Ages, but I’ll wager four-and-twenty groats that there were no mountains.

Eve Hewson and Taron Egerton play Maid Marian and Robin Hood in the new Robin Hood film

The story sees the outlawed aristocrat Robin (Taron Egerton) join forces with a Moor, played by Jamie Foxx (whose tricky Muslim name is anglicised to John), to foment rebellion against the evil Sheriff of Nottingham (Ben Mendelsohn).

There are duly lots of audacious heists, a disappointingly svelte Friar Tuck (Tim Minchin) and heartbreak for Robin as he returns from the Crusades to find that his beloved Marion (Eve Hewson), believing him to be dead, is now shacked up with another dishy rebel, called Will (Jamie Dornan).

Clumsy anachronisms abound, perhaps deliberately, though the film isn’t nearly witty enough to carry them off. Robin talks pure Estuary English while sporting a quilted anorak with a hoodie that wouldn’t look out of place in a Jack Wills window, and director Otto Bathurst tosses in a few Molotov cocktails, a millennium or so before Molotov.

So if you do yearn for a spot of robbing the rich to give to the poor this weekend, do yourself a favour, and sit down with Errol Flynn & Co. instead.

These starving shoplifters will steal your hearts and minds

Shoplifters (15)

Rating:

This captivating Japanese film, both sad and uplifting, arrives in our cinemas (the comparative few that are showing it, anyway) with a great big feather in its cap: it was anointed with the prestigious Palme d’Or at this year’s Cannes Film festival.

Hirokazu Kore-eda’s film is set on the margins of society in Tokyo, where what appears to be a tight-knit family, headed by an elderly grandmother, subsists mainly on stolen food.

Every day, a middle-aged man and a boy of about ten go shoplifting, and we assume them to be father and son. But they aren’t even related. The man, Osamu (Lily Franky) has somehow recruited the boy, Shota (Kairi Jyo), as he then recruits an even younger girl, a tiny waif called Yuri (Miyu Sasaki, far left, with Kairi), setting her to work, too, in the shoplifting business.

Hirokazu Kore-eda’s film is set on the margins of society in Tokyo, where what appears to be a tight-knit family, headed by an elderly grandmother, subsists mainly on stolen food

Osamu is a rogue, but he has a kind heart. The little girl was under-nourished and seemingly unwanted by her family. He took her in partly as an act of charity, but he can also see how useful she will be to his nefarious activities.

His common-law wife Noboyu (Sakura Ando) is similarly dishonest, stealing what she can at the laundry where she works.

But a seam of decency runs through her, too, and really this film is about the good and bad that co-exist in people, perhaps in all of us.

An age-old witch-hunt in a very modern world

Assassination Nation (18)

Rating:

The story of the Salem witch trials of the 17th century continues to resonate in the United States.

Arthur Miller used it as an allegory for McCarthyism in his famous 1953 play The Crucible, and now writer-director Sam Levinson has cleverly, if not very subtly, given the tale a 21st-century spin, using social media as the springboard for collective paranoia and fear.

Assassination Nation, despite its 18 certificate, is firmly aimed at younger audiences, who might enjoy its music video-style snap and punch.

It is based in the actual town of Salem, Massachusetts, where first the mayor, and then the high school principal, have their iPhones and internet browsing histories hacked. Public opprobrium follows, with tragic consequences. ‘Lock him up!’ chants a baying mob over and over, in an echo of Donald Trump’s presidential campaign.

The story unfolds from the perspective of four high school girls, one of whom, Lily (Odessa Young), also finds herself hacked and her affair with a married neighbour exposed.

The hatred and hysteria escalate, culminating in alarming violence. By this stage, the film’s satirical message has been rather undermined by its own lack of restraint. Still, as a warning about the dangers of living your life through your iPhone, and of internet porn and all the other associated technological temptations of our time, it deserves to be seen.

====== 401 ========

SAVANNAH GUTHRIE CAUSES CONTROVERSY BY CLAIMING CHEESECAKE IS A PIE

Savannah Guthrie has sparked a great online debate after boldly stating that cheesecake is her favorite 'pie.'

The 46-year-old anchor was discussing Thanksgiving desserts with her Today show co-stars on Tuesday's show when she put her Georgetown University law degree to use and argued all the reasons why cheesecake should be considered a pie.

'It's round like a pie. You slice it like a pie. It has filling like a pie. It has a crust,' she said, prompting Craig Melvin to interject.

Scroll down for video

Hear her out: Savannah Guthrie sparked a fierce debate on the Today show Tuesday after claiming cheesecake should be considered a pie

Stating her case: The anchor pointed out that cheesecake has a filling and a crust just like a pie

'Cake is in the title!' he said. 'It's called cheesecake!'

However, Savannah struck to her guns, saying: 'I think it has far more in common with pie than [cake]. I think I've made an argument here.'

While Sheinelle Jones agreed with Savannah, Craig and Jenna Bush Hager both insisted that cheesecake is a cake.

To try and put an end to the debate, they deferred to a judge in the studio audience.

'It is a cake,' he said, but Savannah was ready with an appeal.

Take that: Savannah's co-star Craig Melvin reminded her that 'cake is in the title'

Split: Craig and Jenna Bush Hager (far left) both insisted that cheesecake is a cake, while Sheinelle Jones agreed with Savannah

Not dropping it: After the segment, Savannah took to Twitter to make her case to her 880,000 followers

Crazy: Actress Mindy Kaling wasn't entirely convinced with the argument

'Sorry Savannah': Even Dictionary.com weighed in by sharing a link to the definition of cheesecake

End of the debate? According to the definition, it is a 'cake having a firm custardlike texture'

'What about all the of factors I listed?' she asked.

Jenna noted that while Savanna is a lawyer, 'she is going to lose this one.'

After the segment, Savannah took to Twitter to make her case to her 880,000 followers.

'All I ask - be open minded. Don’t be fooled just because it has "cake" in its name,' she tweeted. 'When push comes to shove, cheesecake has far more in common with pie than cake.'

The debate continued in the comments section of her tweet, but not everyone was convinced that she was right.

Feeling the fight: Donna M. Matson was team cake, but she admired Savannah's argument

Sorry: Many people couldn't wrap their heads around the idea that cheesecake is a pie

Support: Kaitlyn Anderson pointed out that 'seahorse has the word horse in its title and it is most definetly not an Equine,' which Savannah thought was an 'excellent argument'

It's pie: Jill Koenig was also adamant that cheesecake is not really a cake

All for it: Diane Hurst also agreed with Savannah's argument about why cheesecake is in the pie category

'This is really crazy, Savannah,' actress Mindy Kaling responded.

Even Dictionary.com weighed in by sharing a link to the definition of cheesecake, writing: 'Sorry Savannah, but you may want to take a look at definition #1.'

'A cake having a firm custardlike texture, made with cream cheese, cottage cheese, or both, and sometimes topped with a jamlike fruit mixture,' the definition reads.

However, there were also plenty of people who thought Savannah had a solid argument.

'Cheesecake is not made with flour and therefore is NOT a cake! #cheesecakeispie,' Jill Koenig tweeted, while Diane Hurst added: 'It is round, has a crust, no flour, no icing ... it is in the pie category.'

Honesty: One person didn't care about the debate at all, and, instead, she admitted she was 'still mad' someone had made fun of the dusty rose dress Savannah had on

Outfit of the day: Savannah wore a $2,295 frock by Derek Lam on the Today show Tuesday

Way harsh: One woman slammed the Today show producers for letting Savannah wear the 'fugly' dress in a since-deleted tweet

Facts: When she hit back at the commenter, Savannah pointed out that she dresses herself

'Seahorse has the word horse in its title and it is most definitely not an Equine. I totally agree that cheese cake has more properties of pie than cake,' Kaitlyn Anderson wrote, prompting Savannah to respond to her 'excellent argument.'

One person didn't care about the debate at all, and, instead, she admitted she was 'still mad' someone had made fun of the dusty rose dress Savannah wore on the Today show Tuesday.

Savannah tweeted a screengrab of some of the comments she received about the $2,295 Derek Lam frock — both good and bad — writing: 'Twitterin a nutshell #love #hate.'

However, she couldn't resist replying to one particularly rude commenter who slammed the Today show producers for letting her wear the 'fugly' dress in a since-deleted tweet.

'Don’t the producers @TODAYshow have any wardrobe standards?' the woman tweeted. 'It’s one thing that you often wear odd choices, but today’s dress wins the prize for #FUGLY. #WhatWereYouThinking???'

'I dress myself! Don’t blame the producers!' Savannah responded, prompting many fans to come to her defense.

====== 402 ========

JORJA SMITH ON TOURING WITH DRAKE AND FAT-SHAMING TROLLS

Her career has been on the up since winning the prestigious BRIT Critics' Choice Award.

And Jorja Smith has discussed her collaboration with Drake, her experiences of body shaming and what it was like growing up mixed-race in Walsall in the noughties in a new interview with ES magazine.

The 21-year-old singer confessed she found it annoying that people always ask her about Drake after the pair collaborated and she performed on tour with him.

Candid chat: Jorja Smith has discussed her collaboration with Drake, her experiences of body shaming and what it was like growing up mixed-race in Walsall in the noughties in a new interview with ES magazine

Jorja said: ‘The annoying thing is that people want to talk more about Drake than me. It’s always the same: "how did you meet him?

'How did you write? Was it cool working with him?" I know that’s how it is, for any small artist who works with a bigger artist.

'You’re associated with them, because that’s how people find out about you, like clickbait.’

The One hitmaker also got candid about the realities of fame, including the need to develop a thick skin.

Collaboration: The 21-year-old singer confessed she found it annoying that people always ask her about Drake after the pair collaborated and she performed on tour with him

Jorja confessed she is a regular victim of trolling, with some cruel followers calling her 'pregnant'.

Insisting she doesn't let it get to her, she said: ‘I get loads of horrible comments on my pictures, saying I look pregnant because I have a fat stomach.

'It’s just my body shape. It’s how I look. If that was said to me when I was 15, I’d be so upset.'

On growing up mixed race in Walsall in the noughties, the singer said her teenage years were difficult because she struggled to fit in.

Speaking out against trolls: Jorja confessed she is a regular victim of trolling, with some cruel followers calling her 'pregnant'

‘You can’t say you’re white,’ she recalled. ‘You can say you’re black... but then black people will be like, “No, you aren’t”.

'When I was younger, I just wanted to be paler because all my friends were white. I felt like that because no one else looked like me when I was growing up.’

Jorja insisted that she hasn't noticed any difference in her record sales since winning her BRIT Award.

Claiming she's not really a 'chart person', she added, 'I want to be a classic'.

====== 403 ========

DAISY LOWE DEBUTS EVEN BLONDER HAIR AS SHE STUNS IN SLOGAN T-SHIRT

She showed off her blonde hair transformation earlier this month.

And Daisy Lowe went even lighter with her locks on Thursday, debuting a striking platinum-blonde 'do at Kiehl's annual Thanksgiving Party in London.

The 29-year-old model certainly stood out with her head-turning mane as she stormed the star-studded bash in a silky trouser suit.

The mane attraction: Daisy Lowe went even lighter with her locks on Thursday, debuting a striking platinum-blonde 'do at Kiehl's annual Thanksgiving Party in London

Daisy completed her look with black sports-trim joggers and a chic black and white slogan T-shirt.

She injected an extra dose of rocker cool to her monochrome look with a killer pair of lace-up boots.

Styling her newly-lightened tresses in a messy bob, Lowe plumped her pout with a vampy slick of scarlet lipstick.

Chic: The 29-year-old model certainly stood out with her head-turning mane as she stormed the star-studded bash in a silky trouser suit

Looking good: Daisy completed her look with black sports-trim joggers and a chic black and white slogan T-shirt

The model's new look comes after reports she has found love with model Cameron McMeikan after splitting from artist John Leigh earlier this year.

The model is certainly a man of many talents as he also works as an artist, photographer and is the creative director of a digital agency.

Daisy, whose dating history includes The Crown's Matt Smith, Hurts singer Theo Hutchcraft and Thomas Cohen, was last romantically linked to artist John.

Check her out: Jaime Winstone stunned in a checked trouser suit and sexy bustier

Killer footwear: The brunette beauty added height with a pair of towering platform boots

Here come the girls: Josephine De La Baume rocked a velvet trouser suit, while Sarah Ann Macklin donned a silky printed shirt

The pair, who went public with their relationship in October 2017, have not been pictured together since February this year.

A source told The Mirror of their romance last year: 'It has been a while since Daisy had a serious boyfriend and she has grown really close to John.

'They have been secretly dating for months and really enjoy each other's company.'

There he is: DJ Nick Grimshaw kept things casual in a shearling coat and liberally unbuttoned shirt

====== 404 ========

DELILAH BELLE HAMLIN FLAUNTS HER EFFORTLESS GOOD LOOKS AS SHE STEPS OUT WITH DOG FOR AMAZON POP-UP

Delilah Belle Hamlin flaunted her effortless good looks when she stepped out for the Amazon Fire TV's Black Friday Pop-Up at Westfield Century City Mall in Los Angeles on Tuesday.

The 20-year-old appeared in great spirits and was joined by her much loved recuse French Bulldog, Love.

The aspiring model - who is the daughter of Real Housewives star Lisa Rinna and actor Harry Hamlin - also dressed up her canine in designer clothes.

Scroll down for video

Stunner: Delilah Belle showcased her model good looks on Tuesday at the Westfield Century City Amazon Fire Black Friday Pop-Up

Delilah stunned in a burnt orange velour long-sleeved top with intricate stitching and bell sleeves.

She teamed the look with a pair of black leather trousers that were tied up to her trim waist.

The model added to her 5ft7in stature with a pair of velour pumps and accessorized her look with various gold chains around her neck.

Only love: The 20-year-old appeared in great spirits and was joined by her much loved recuse French Bulldog, Love

Stylish: Delilah stunned in a burnt orange velour long sleeved top with intricate stitching and bell sleeves

Radiant: Delilah had her short blonde locks styled out into loose waves and sported a glowing complexion complete with blush, a nude lip and fake lashes

Delilah had her short blonde locks styled out into loose waves and sported a glowing complexion complete with blush, a nude lip and fake lashes.

The cover girl also ensured her pup was also dressed for the occasion, adding a Louis Vuitton sweater to her look.

And while the pair appear inseparable, Love is only a recent addition to the Hamlin household.

Dressed to impress: She also ensured her pup was also dressed for the occasion, adding a Louis Vuitton sweater to her look

Love from day one: And while the pair appear inseparable, Love is only a recent addition to the Hamlin household

Gave her love and care: 'She was super sick when I first got her. She had some parasites, we think, and she had worms, so we had to deworm her a bunch of times and give her shots and I knew that she went through some trauma when she was younger so I definitely made sure to raise her the proper way so that she felt comfortable and safe all the time'

Speaking with Bravo in October, Delilah said she recused the newborn pup in the second half of 2018.

'I got Love probably a month or two ago,' she said back in early October.

'I was told that she was 12 weeks but she was actually four weeks old when we got her, so she was separated from her mom pretty early.

However, Love was quite ill initially and needed some extra love and care.

'She was super sick when I first got her. She had some parasites, we think, and she had worms, so we had to deworm her a bunch of times and give her shots and I knew that she went through some trauma when she was younger so I definitely made sure to raise her the proper way so that she felt comfortable and safe all the time,' she added.

'Love is my best friend, she sleeps with me every night, she's potty trained. Little cutie.'

====== 405 ========

SOPRANOS PREQUEL TAPS INDIE ACTOR ALESSANDRO NIVOLA TO PLAY DICKEY MOLTISANTI IN UPCOMING FILM

The forthcoming Sopranos prequel film just cast it's first Made Man.

Indie actor Alessandro Nivola is in negotiations for the lead role of Dickey Moltisanti, Variety reported on Tuesday.

The Many Saints of Newark, will return fans to the world of the Sopranos, the fictitious New Jersey mob family they loyally followed on HBO for six seasons.

Mafia moment: Actor Alessandro Nivola is in negotiations to play Dicky Moltisanti in the upcoming Sopranos prequel film, according to Variety on Wednesday

Nivola, will take on the role of Dicky, the uncle of Tony Soprano, who was famously played by James Gandolfini.

Dicky Moltisanti was never seen during the drama's tenure on HBO but referenced several times as a sort of mentor of Tony's.

The character is also the father the infamous Christopher Moltisanti, impeccably portrayed by Michael Imperioli in the mafia series.

Dicky is 'a charismatic but violent made man who falls in love with his father's much younger bride, a recent immigrant from Italy,' according to The Hollywood Reporter.

The family: Alessandro will play Tony Soprano's uncle and the father of Christopher, played by Michael Imperioli

HBO hit: James Gandolfini and Edie Falco portrayed Tony and Carmela in the ground breaking series for six seasons

THR also reported that other fan-favorite Sopranos characters besides Moltisanti will be featured in the film; albeit as younger versions of their television personas.

Nivola is a relative newcomer on the Hollywood scene but has been met with acclaim on the indie ciruit.

He's currently nominated for best supporting actor at the upcoming British Independent Film Awards for his role in 'Disobedience.'

Prequel: The Many Saints of Newark will be set 30 years before the television series in riot torn New Jersey

And, the Boston native currently stars in the indie feature 'Weightless.'

He's been married to British actress Emily Mortimer since 2003 and they have two children together.

The plot of the mob prequel is set in the era of the Newark riots in the 1960s, when African-Americans and Italians in New Jersey embroiled in an often fatal feud.

David Chase, the creator of The Sopranos, co-wrote the upcoming film adaptation.

The original: David Chase, who created The Sopranos for television, co-wrote the prequel

The Sopranos was a trailblazer in its heyday for HBO as one of the network's initial creations to receive critical acclaim.

It is often labeled as one of the best television shows of all time and frequently credited as the work that carved out the path for the cable network drama surge that is still soaring during this current 'golden era' of television.

While it was on the air, the mafia melodrama earned numerous awards, including two Peabody Awards, 21 Primetime Emmy Awards and five Golden Globe Awards

====== 406 ========

JENNY MOLLEN GETS FACE LASERED TO REDUCE BRUISING AFTER HAVING FILLERS DISSOLVED

She's been seeking help to improve her looks, after turning to a new dermatologist.

And as part of her treatment plan, Jenny Mollen has had her fillers dissolved in her face - but not without side effects.

The 39-year-old revealed severe facial bruising in anInstagram post on Tuesday, after earlier undergoing injections to dissolve the fillers.

Bruised: Jenny Mollen gets her face lasered to reduce severe bruising after having her lip fillers dissolved; she is seen in an Instagram Story update from Tuesday

Known side effect: Jenny said that while shocking, the bruising was not unexpected

Day two: Jenny shows off her bruise after laser treatment, which she helps will fade the mark

As Jenny, who is married to actor Jason Biggs, explained, the bruising occurred rapidly.

'I was sitting at lunch with my friend and I went to the bathroom and I was like "Hey, why didn't you tell me there's a giant f**ing bruise on my face?"

'And she was like "Oh, you came in like that".'

Jenny said that while shocking, the bruising was not unexpected.

Change: As Jenny, who is married to actor Jason Biggs, explained, bruising occurred rapidly

Treatment: Jenny went back to her dermatologist to have her bruise lasered

'I was warned this is what happens when you take out the filler. Its all par for the cause.'

On Wednesday morning Jenny returned to her dermatologist and had her bruises treated with a pulsed dye laser. The treatment, normally given 48 hours after a cosmetic procedure sparks bruising, was developed by the Laser & Skin Surgery Center of New York.

New York-based Jenny explained: 'So I just got lasered, I got the bruise lasered hopefully it's gonna fade faster.'

Not a good look: The author joked she would stand out on the school run

And she joked that until then she would enjoy looking: 'badass like maybe last night i got in a barfight.'

The author - she has penned two New York Times bestsellers - and her husband have two sons: Sid, four, and Lazlo, 10 months.

The Live Fast Die Hot author sparked concern when she shared a photo of her worryingly thin body back in April, explaining that she was experiencing distressing symptoms possibly related to Graves' disease.

Her usual look: Jenny is seen last December with her clear skin

She was later diagnosed with hyperthyroidism after losing a worrying amount of weight and shedding her hair.

Jenny was put on medication to slowdown her overproduction of thyroid hormones, and she reported in June that her thyroid condition had drastically improved.

According to the star, she gained 15 pounds in four weeks.

====== 407 ========

NETFLIX VIEWERS POINT OUT HILARIOUS MISTAKES IN VANESSA HUDGENS' NEW MOVIE THE PRINCESS SWITCH

To get in the holiday spirit, Netflix has released a plethora of original Christmas movies to the delight of fans everywhere.

The streaming sites most recent Christmas movie entitled The Princess Switch stars Vanessa Hudgens, 29, playing two characters in a very Parent Trap-inspired holiday film.

Since the movie - which was written by Robin Bernheim and Megan Metzger - was released last week, fans have expressed their love for the movie. But eagle-eyed viewers also noticed some hilarious editing mistakes missed before the movie went online.

Adorable: Vanessa Hudgens, 29 stars in a new Netflix holiday entitled The Princess Switch where she plays two characters who look alike

Observant: Multiple fans noticed Vanessa's hand tattoo made an appearance multiple times throughout the movie

Apparent: It appeared the film wasn't always worried about covering the tattoo up

Funny: People couldn't get over the hand tattoo appearing on the duchess' hand

Fair: Another fan pointed out a potential plot hole with a different character in the film

During the film, Vanessa plays a princess named Duchess Margaret Delacourt and a baker named Stacey De Novo from Chicago who look very similar to each other.

But multiple fans noticed Vanessa's finger tattoo made it during scenes while she was playing both characters.

'It's crazy how Stacey and Duchess Margaret not only look exactly alike but also have the same tattoo,' one fan wrote. 'The fact they forgot to cover up @VanessaHudgens ink for the duchess only makes me like #ThePrincessSwitch more.'

Another fan wrote: 'They forgot to cover up Vanessa Hudgens' hand tattoo when she's in character as a duchess with a questionable British accent lol.'

Vanessa's obvious hand tattoo was an oversight from the movie crew when filming, but it wasn't the only spotted mistake.

Fans pointed out other plot holes including the moment a character named Kevin realized he didn't have toothpaste multiple days into the vacation.

Unimpressed: Another fan did not believe the baking competition scene with the KitchenAid

Oops! But the most obvious error from during the film was a scene at the end that showed Vanessa's body double

Not having it: Some Chicago natives said they would never wear Vanessa's hat

Hilarious: They couldn't believe that was one accessory Vanessa had to wear while filming

'The biggest plot hole in The Princess Switch is that it takes Kevin TWO DAYS into being in Belgravia to realize he forgot to pack toothpaste,' an eagle-eyed viewer wrote on Twitter.

Other fans had issues with the baking scene when one character attempted to sabotage Vanessa's character during a competition.

'You mean to tell me they got all the way through those cakes without the KitchenAid but suddenly, but suddenly we need to puree berries and it's a crisis? Please,' one fan wrote.'

The biggest error made by the Christmas movie was at the end of the film when both Vanessa and her body double are captured in a scene together.

One user videoed the moment they saw Vanessa at one end of the screen and then her body double at the other posed as Duchess Margaret.

But despite these mistakes made throughout the festive film, many users admitted to loving the 'cheesy' and 'cliché' flick just in time for the holiday season.

====== 408 ========

RUMER WILLIS WEARS SCHOOLGIRL BRAIDS IN BEVERLY HILLS... AS SHE PREPARES FOR LOVE ACTUALLY LIVE

She's gearing up to star in the live adaptation of the 2003 film Love Actually running between December 4 and 31 at the Wallis Annenberg Center For The Performing Arts in Beverly Hills - she plays the part Martine McCutcheon had in the original.

And enjoying her last few days before her grueling schedule, Rumer Willis was spotted enjoying some retail therapy with friends in Beverly Hills on Tuesday.

The 30-year-old beauty appeared in great spirits for the outing and kept warm in a thick bomber jacket.

Day off: Rumer Willis couldn't help but smile as she enjoyed some retail therapy ahead of her role in Love Actually Live next month

Rumer opted for a statement T-shirt underneath her coat and teamed the look with form-fitting trousers of the same color.

She completed her look with a pair of lace-up ankle boots that had studs on the side and was seen walking around with a refreshing beverage.

The beauty had her auburn colored tresses styled into two school girl braids and accessorized with a pair of dainty earrings.

Cozy: The 30-year-old beauty appeared in great spirits for the outing and kept warm in a thick bomber jacket

Keeping things casual: Rumer opted for a statement T-shirt underneath her coat and teamed the look with form-fitting trousers of the same color

Natural beauty: Rumer appeared to be wearing a minimal amount of makeup with a simple sweep of mascara and brushed out brows

Rumer appeared to be wearing a minimal amount of makeup with a simple sweep of mascara and brushed out brows.

The actress also took to social media to share a selfie of her look and covered her eyes with a pair of heart shaped sunglasses.

Her appearance comes after it was reported she had scored a role in the upcoming Anderson Davis' production of Love Actually Live.

Selfie: The actress also took to social media to share a selfie of her look and covered her eyes with a pair of heart shaped sunglasses

Day with friends: She's gearing up to star in the Live adaptation of Love Actually running between December 4-31, next month

Top role: It's been reported that Steve and Rumer will be playing Prime Minister David and his staffer Natalie, who were portrayed by Hugh Grant and Martine McCutcheon (pictured) in the original Christmas rom-com which amassed $246.9 million in 2003

Rumer will join Grammy and Tony award winning Broadway star Steve Kazee, who's currently dating Jenna Dewan.

It's been reported that Steve and Rumer will be playing Prime Minister David and his staffer Natalie, who were portrayed by Hugh Grant and Martine McCutcheon in the original Christmas rom-com which amassed $246.9 million in 2003.

The 2015 Dancing With The Stars winner will follow in her Hollywood A-lister parents Demi Moore, 56, and Bruce Willis, 63.

====== 409 ========

KATE UPTON SHARES SWEET THROWBACK SNAP OF HUSBAND JUSTIN VERLANDER RUBBING HER BARE BELLY

She and MLB star husband Justin Verlander recently welcomed daughter Genevieve.

And Kate Upton shared an adorable throwback snap from her pregnancy days to Instagram on Wednesday.

The 26-year-old Sports Illustrated Swimsuit model posted a black and white photo of herself laying on a bed in her underwear as Justin rubbed her bare belly.

Throwback: Kate Upton shared an adorable throwback snap from her pregnancy days with husband Justin Verlander to Instagram on Wednesday

She captioned the pic: 'Happy 2-week birthday to my sweet Genevieve. It’s crazy we took these photos less than a month ago and now you’re out in the world with us. I’m so grateful to be your mom!'

And just last week, Kate shared another heart-warming photo with the 35-year-old professional athlete cradling his newborn daughter.

The Houston Astros pitcher definitely had the look of love as he stared adoringly at the baby girl.

As the elite pitcher recently lost one of the most prestigious awards in baseball to Tampa Bay Devil Rays starter Blake Snell, he poked fun at himself in the caption for the photo he had posted himself.

Sweet words: She captioned the pic: 'Happy 2-week birthday to my sweet Genevieve. It’s crazy we took these photos less than a month ago and now you’re out in the world with us. I’m so grateful to be your mom!'; (pictured September)

Bonding time: Kate aslso posted an adorable photo of the 35-year-old professional athlete Justin cradling newborn daughter Genevieve

Justin wrote: 'Didn’t win #cyyoungaward , but I can’t be too upset when I have this little girl waiting for her daddy off camera!'

Kate reposted the cute black and white snap with the caption: 'Daddy daughter snuggles beat everything #Repost @justinverlander'

Over the weekend Justin announced that he and blonde bombshell Kate had welcomed the child via the same picture-sharing network.

'Welcome to the world': Over the weekend Justin announced that he and blonde bombshell Kate had welcomed the child via the same picture-sharing network

He chared a snap of the couple's hands holding the baby girl's foot with the caption: 'Welcome to the world Genevieve Upton Verlander. You stole my ❤️ the first second I met you!!! 11.7.2018'

Kate also made her announcement on Instagram.

'Genevieve Upton Verlander,' she said in the caption as she shared a photo of the little girl.

It was only one year ago that Kate and Justin were wed in a magical ceremony in Tuscany.

====== 410 ========

JOAQUIN PHOENIX CLOWNS AROUND WITH A RED NOSE ON JOKER SET IN NYC

He is playing the Clown Prince of Crime.

And Joaquin Phoenix slipped seamlessly into character as he fooled around with a red nose on the Joker set in New York City on Wednesday.

While he didn't have his distinguishing face make-up on, the 44-year-old rocked a very Joker-esque ensemble.

Clown Prince of Crime: Joaquin Phoenix slipped seamlessly into character as he fooled around with a red nose on the Joker set in New York on Wednesday

He paired burgundy trousers with a mustard jacket, orange cardigan and white shirt, popping the clown nose on and off as he strolled through the streets of Harlem.

Production began in September on this Joker movie, which follows the transformation of Phoenix's character, Arthur Fleck, from a man 'disregarded by society' into a criminal mastermind.

The cast also includes Zazie Beetz, Bill Camp, Frances Conroy, Marc Maron and Shea Whigham.

Warner Bros has already set an October 4, 2019 release date for this Joker movie, which comes just a few years after Jared Leto played the Joker in Suicide Squad.

Colorful: While he didn't have his distinguishing face make-up on, the 44-year-old rocked a very Joker-esque ensemble besides

Wardrobe: He paired burgundy trousers with a mustard jacket, orange cardigan and white shirt, popping the clown nose on and off as he strolled through the streets of Harlem

After Batman v Superman: Dawn Of Justice and Justice League were considered underwhelming, Warner Bros. is seemingly undergoing a big transformation with their superhero movies.

The Hollywood Reporter revealed in September that Henry Cavill is out as Superman, after playing the iconic hero in Man Of Steel, Batman v Superman: Dawn Of Justice and Justice League.

Ben Affleck is expected to also part ways with the DCEU as Batman, as the studio focuses on new movies like this Joker project, Shazam, Birds of Prey, Supergirl and a sequel to the 2017 hit Wonder Woman.

In his colorful suit: Phoenix with his red suit and paint on earlier this week in NYC

Phoenix has been busy in 2018, having starred in four movies this year alone.

You Were Never Really Here debuted in theaters through Amazon Studios after premiering at Cannes in 2017, with Amazon also distributing his film Don't Worry, He Won't Get Far on Foot.

He also portrayed Jesus in Mary Magdalene and starred as Charlie Sisters in the Western drama The Sisters Brothers.

====== 411 ========

CHRISSY TEIGEN JOKES JOHN LEGEND'S SONG ALL OF ME IS ABOUT HER FEET

Chrissy Teigen joked about the secret meaning of a line in one of husband John Legend's songs on Tuesday after griping about how much she hates her feet.

The 32-year-old model and cook book author told Ellen DeGeneres on her show that she's not a fan of her 'Asian jungle feet' and tried to hide them on air.

Later, Ellen tweeted about the funny moment — promoting Chrissy to quip that her feet are what John really meant when he sang about her 'curves and edges'.

The set-up: Ellen DeGeneres tweeted on Tuesday about Chrissy Teigen's visit to her show, where the 32-year-old talked about how she hates her feet

Inspo: Chrissy then joked that her feet are what her husband John Legend meant when he sang about her 'curves and eges'

Funny lady: She complained that she has 'Asian jungle feet that were meant to climb trees' and then tried to hide her feet so the audience and viewers at home wouldn't look

Say what? Despite her complaints, Chrissy's feet look quite normal in pictures on Instagram

On Tuesday afternoon, Ellen shared a clip from her show along with a tweet that read, 'I discovered a lot about @ChrissyTeigen while she was my co-host. For instance, she gets haircuts during commercial breaks, and she hates her feet.'

During the video, Chrissy admitted that she thinks she 'has horrible feet,' then tried to cover them up when she realized the discussion would lead viewers to look down.

Awkward: Chrissy described her feet as 'horrible' while chatting with Ellen

While trying to conceal her feat under a chair - rather unsuccessfully thanks to the high heels she was wearing - Chrissy went on to complain that she has 'Asian jungle feet that were meant to climb trees,' and admitted that she used to have a stipulation in her Sports Illustrated contracts, which ensured she wouldn't have to show her feet in photos, and would instead bury them in the sand.

'John always says if I die... this is a terrible story already... all he has to do in the morgue, instead of lifting up the sheet on the face, he'll just do it the other way and he can tell by my feet,' she went on.

But it wasn't until after the episode had aired that Chrissy made the claim about her husband actually writing a song about her unique feature.

Responding to Ellen's tweet about the exchange, Chrissy took the joke a step further, writing that her feet are 'what john meant by "curves and edges."'

Looks fine to us: She's regularly rocking designer shoes on her 'horrible' feet

So romantic: Chrissy appeared in the music video for the song

In John's 2013 song All of Me — the video for which includes Chrissy — he sings, 'All of me loves all of you. Love your curves and all your edges, all your perfect imperfections.'

While John has not confirmed or denied his wife's claim about his chart-topping hit, he has revealed in the past that the song was in fact written for Chrissy.

'The song is saying things that balance each other out,' he told Fuse of the meaning behind the lyrics.

He added: 'At the same time as you're giving everything up, you're gaining everything, and that's what the whole song is about.

'If you're in love and you connect, then even when you're giving things up, you're gaining so much from it.'

Fans loves Chrissy's funny new take on the lyrics however, liking her tweet 22,000 times and counting.

'Total clarity, now it all makes sense. This is my favorite tweet EVER!' wrote one.

'You are very skilled at Twitter,' tweeted a third, while yet another fan chimed in: 'Hahahaha @chrissyteigen you are the realest.'

====== 412 ========

SERENA WILLIAMS ROCKS BUSTY BODYSUIT AS SHE HOLDS HANDS WITH DAUGHTER OLYMPIA, ONE, IN SWEET SNAP

She celebrated her one-year wedding anniversary with husband Alexis Ohanian last week.

And Serena Williams looked every inch the doting mother to their one-year-old daughter, Alexis Olympia as she posted a sweet snap via her Instagram on Wednesday.

Holding hands with her baby girl, the tennis pro, 37, looked glamorous in a busty black bodysuit as she shared a behind-the-scenes from her GQ photoshoot.

