Looking on the bright side: He said his experience has given him a unique outlook on life and that he’s proud of his prosthetic.

WHAT IS EWING SARCOMA? Ewing sarcoma is a rare type of cancer that affects bones or the tissue around bones. It mainly affects children and young people, with most cases diagnosed in people aged 10 to 20. It's more common in males than females. Ewing sarcoma can spread to other parts of the body quite quickly. The earlier it's diagnosed, the better the chance there is of the treatment being successful. It can be cured in some cases, but this might not be possible if the cancer has spread. The cancer can also come back after treatment, so regular check-ups will be offered to look for any signs of this. Overall, more than half of people with Ewing sarcoma live at least five years after being diagnosed, but this can vary quite a lot. SOURCE: NHS Choices

Now, Mr King is currently taking a year out to recover but is hoping to study either English Literature or History at university while he gets to grips with life on one leg.

He said his experience has given him a unique outlook on life and that he’s proud of his prosthetic.

'I want to make the most of life. I don’t get many comments from people about the prosthetic.

'I don’t know how girls find it when they see me, I suppose I’ll find out. I think it’s something I’ll have to say upfront to people. There’s no point trying to hide it. I’m proud of it and it’s part of me and what I’ve been through.

'What’s happened to me has made me look at life differently. I want to live life because now I know that anything can happen at any moment.'

A spokesman for NHS Hambleton, Richmondshire and Whitby CCG, speaking on behalf of Matthew’s GP surgery, responded.

They said: 'We are unable to comment on individual cases.'

Matthew is raising money for a new prosthetic leg. To donate, visit his Go Fund Me site by clicking here.

====== 1753 ========

PARENTS ARE SOWING THE SEEDS OF ALCOHOL ADDICTION IN THEIR CHILDREN BY ALLOWING THEM TO DRINK

Well-meaning parents are sowing the seeds of alcohol addiction in their children - by allowing them to drink at home while still underage.

That's the warning from experts at Ireland's Health Service Executive, who criticised 'progressive' upbringings in a new guide for families, this week.

The document, Alcohol and Drugs: A Parent’s Guide’, stresses that elders must exhibit a healthy relationship with drinking to avoid misuse by future generations.

Specifically, it insists that early exposure to drinking can create a 'huge' likelihood of full-blown addiction for youngsters in later life.

Running the risk: Well-meaning parents are sowing the seeds of alcohol addiction in their children - by allowing them to drink at home while still underage, say experts at Ireland's HSE

Speaking at Dublin’s Cathedral Street on Monday, national clinical Eamon Keenan said that being relaxed about alcohol is misplaced.

'While you might think your child is very sensible and very grounded, and this is a very mature and progressive way to deal with it, the reality is that when the child is outside the home, they’ve been given the imprimatur that they can drink,' he says.

'Therefore, they’re more likely to drink alcohol outside the home in a harmful manner.'

He added: 'A lot of the people who we would see now would have taken drugs or alcohol at an early age. 'If you start using cannabis before the age of 15 you increase your risk of addiction by four times by the age of 26. So it’s about delaying that onset of the use of these substances as long as possible.'

He added that parents should demonstrate a positive relationship with alcohol so it isn't seen used to medicate stress or emotional upset by their children in adulthood.

'When a parent comes home from work, and says, "Oh what an awful day in work, I must have a gin and tonic now, give me a drink", that doesn’t send out a good message to the children because that makes the children think one way of dealing with stress is to take alcohol,' he told The Times.

'These are the sort of messages that we don’t want to give our children.'

Careful: Parents should demonstrate a positive relationship with alcohol so it isn't seen used to medicate stress or emotional upset by their children in adulthood

DO YOU DRINK A GLASS OF WINE EACH DAY? YOU'RE AT HIGHER RISK OF BREAST CANCER Drinking just one small glass of wine a day raises a woman's risk of breast cancer, a major report concluded in May 2017. It means even following safe drinking guidelines of 14 units a week could be enough to endanger health. A review of 119 studies, involving 12million women, found a daily glass of wine raises the risk of pre-menopausal breast cancer by 5 per cent and post-menopausal breast cancer by 9 per cent. The authors, from the World Cancer Research Fund, estimated 12,000 cases of breast cancer could be prevented in the UK each year if nobody drank alcohol. They based their calculations on consumption of 10g of alcohol a day, the amount in 100ml of 12 per cent strength wine – less than a standard 125ml small glass. That is equivalent to 8.75 units a week, which is well within the 14 a week limit advised by the Government.

It comes shortly after shocking figures revealed that alcohol deaths in America have soared in the past 10 years - particularly among women.

The rate of alcohol-related deaths rocketed 35 percent between 2007 and 2017.

It shot up 67 percent for women alone.

The data from the University of Washington, first reported by USA Today, comes a year after federal data showed a sharp rise in binge-drinking among women and elderly people.

To help combat a similar surge in the UK, the HSE is encouraging parents to get the conversation started with their teenagers and young people about the risks linked to alcohol.

Dr Gerry McCarney, Consultant Child and Adolescent Psychiatrist, notes how important it is for parents to make opportunities to have these kinds of conversations and to set boundaries for their children.

'Trying to chat about ‘big’ things like alcohol or drugs with your teenager can feel very difficult. It is tough to find ways to stay close to your child at a time when it may feel like they’re pushing you away, but feeling loved and connected makes a huge difference to them,' he said.

'Teenagers and young people need their parents to steer them in the right direction, which means having conversations about these topics. This guide will help you to decide what’s OK and what’s not OK in your family, and how to let your child know.

'Teenagers can put up a good argument, but you still have the right to set the rules and say that you don’t want them to drink until they are at least 18.'

Read the HSE report in full, here

====== 1754 ========

HOW TO BE 80 YEARS YOUNG! BELIEVE IT OR NOT, THESE MEN AND WOMEN ARE ALL OCTOGENARIANS

GOOD POSTURE AND A GREAT MARRIAGE!

Jess Conrad OBE, 82, an actor and singer, lives in Buckinghamshire with his wife, Renee, 75, a retired model. They have two daughters and two grandchildren. Jess is 6ft 2in and weighs 13st (Body Mass Index 23, ‘healthy’).

When I was a boy, I watched the film Bambi and I was bowled over by Bambi’s father, this majestic stag. I told myself: ‘That’s how you need to stand, with your chin up.’ And I always have.

Posture is so important for looking good and feeling healthy.

I also try to have a smile on my face. If you seem positive, people view you more positively. You see people my age who, by the way they stand, look old — I think it makes them feel old, too.

Looking good: Youthful Jess Conrad OBE, 82, an actor and singer, lives in Buckinghamshire with his wife, Renee, 75, a retired model

I come from a time when British men didn’t work out the way they do now, but Americans did. I wanted to be able to open my shirt and look like Burt Lancaster in From Here To Eternity, so I started working with weights in my late teens, going to the gym and playing football three times a week until I was 75. Then it got a bit too tiring.

Now, I take my exercise playing in charity golf tournaments but, in my line of work, you expend a lot of energy — I still do concerts, sometimes twice a week.

I wanted to be able to open my shirt and look like Burt Lancaster in From Here To Eternity, so I started working with weights in my late teens

Sunshine is really important: if the sun is out, I get outside as much as I can, even if it’s just going into the garden with a cup of tea.

Work is vital to staying young. The last time I was ill was a few years ago.

I developed pneumonia, but I was doing panto so I struggled on — when my doctor found out, he said it could have killed me.

I’ve never been a big eater and I only drink around five glasses of white wine a week. I take a multi-vitamin and turmeric supplement every day, because it has powerful anti-inflammatory effects.

A good marriage also keeps you young. I married Renee, a Dutch model who became famous as Miss Camay, 55 years ago. I first laid eyes on her when she appeared in a bath of bubbles on a TV advert!

We have a lovely life together — we go out and have lots of friends, all of which invigorates me.

EXPERT COMMENT: Jess is right to respect posture. Over time, the back curves forward, but standing straight is good for toning muscle groups, which means as an older person, you’ll be less likely to fall.

He’s also right about sunshine, which is needed for the body to make vitamin D — essential for healthy bones and a strong immune system. This could be key to why Jess has good energy levels.

Lots of older people are confined inside and don’t get enough sun.

WORKS FULL-TIME AND DRINKS VEGGIE WATER

Jan Hunt, 80, a theatre producer, lives in Surrey and has a son and two grandchildren. She is 5ft 2in and weighs 9st 7lb (BMI 24, ‘healthy’).

My mum, who died aged 92, used to wake up every day and say: ‘Thank you, Lord, for another day.’ It’s a marvellous mantra and it immediately makes you latch on to the positive, which is not always an easy thing to do.

I picked up other things from her, too. For example, if she was boiling spring greens, she would drink the cooled-down water afterwards, as it was full of vitamins that had leached from the vegetables.

Healthy: Jan Hunt, 80, a theatre producer, lives in Surrey and has a son and two grandchildren

I’m rarely ill — I had pneumonia 30 years ago, but have never needed medicine since then, unlike many of my contemporaries, sadly.

I don’t follow a particular health regimen — I just spend my time rushing around and that seems to keep me fit.

I’m still working full-time and can be involved with two shows simultaneously, for up to six days a week, but I love to keep busy. I could do with losing about half a stone, but I want to enjoy life, too — which is just as important as keeping in shape. So if I want some chocolate or a gin and tonic after a long day, I’ll have it.

I’m still working full-time and can be involved with two shows simultaneously, for up to six days a week, but I love to keep busy.

How you look affects how you feel on the inside, too: it just gives you a boost, makes you stand tall. So, even if I’m only nipping to the supermarket, I’ll brush my hair and apply lipstick and a splash of perfume.

I was at the tip getting rid of some rubbish recently and a lady came up to me and said: ‘You’re the smartest person I’ve ever seen here.’ That really makes you feel good, which can only help with your health and positivity.

I’m also very religious about taking my make-up off at night, which I’m sure has helped give me such good skin.

Taking on voluntary commitments also helps. Sadly, I lost my sister five years ago to breast cancer — I channelled my grief into doing something positive and, last year, I abseiled the 560ft Spinnaker Tower in Portsmouth for the Royal Marsden charity.

It was absolutely terrifying, but I was determined to do it.

EXPERT COMMENT: A recent study by Harvard University identified key habits that could potentially add a decade to life expectancy, including a balanced diet, regular exercise and drinking only moderately. Jan does all of these, though she might want to introduce some formal exercise such as regular walks.

The social, intellectual and physical stimulation of working or volunteering contributes to a positivity that helps both mental and physical health.

And looking good can help, too: a study by the University of Denmark found that people who look young for their age enjoy a longer life.

As for drinking vegetable water, keeping hydrated is very important for overall health.

BOVRIL AND A KICK-ABOUT WITH GRANDCHILDREN

David Hamilton, 80, is a radio presenter who lives in West Sussex with his wife, Dreena. They have five children and nine grandchildren. He is 5ft 6in and weighs 12st (BMI 27, just ‘overweight’).

I must be the luckiest person in the world, since I’ve never seen the inside of a hospital and have been blessed with good health.

Fighting fit: David Hamilton, 80, is a radio presenter who lives in West Sussex with his wife, Dreena. They have five children and nine grandchildren

However, I do help myself along where I can. First thing in the morning, I do the Daily Mail Word Wheel, as well as a crossword — a great way to get the brain going.

I eat very simple food. I love Bovril and have it most days: a favourite meal is jacket potatoes with Bovril and butter. In terms of alcohol, I only drink white wine — no more than a couple of bottles over a week.

And I make sure I go a couple of days without any alcohol at all.

I gave up smoking at 50 — I’d been on 40 a day, but I watched one of my oldest friends, a heavy smoker, die from lung cancer. The day he passed away, I threw my cigarette packet away.

I don’t take supplements, except for garlic tablets to avoid colds. And I’ve never had the flu jab.

I walk the dog a couple miles every day and, when I can, I swim. We have a pool at home and, during the summer, I swim in it all the time. I love to run around and play football with my grandchildren. On my 80th birthday, my neighbour, who is around 50, came for a celebratory drink and we ended up having a kickabout. He was the goalkeeper and I just hammered the balls at him!

Working keeps you young and I still do some broadcasting — why would I retire when I’m doing a job that I love? I’ve never been out of work since starting 60 years ago. (I’ve also written three books, including The Golden Days Of Radio One published last year.)

EXPERT COMMENT: Overall, David has a great lifestyle and it shows in his good health: keeping fit, working and eating sensibly.

Bovril is great, as it’s particularly rich in iron and B12, which are needed for healthy blood and nervous function — older people can miss out on B12, because the ageing body doesn’t absorb it so well, leading to anaemia and fatigue. But I’m concerned that David has never had the flu jab — a bad case at this life stage could be fatal.

David is also having around 20 units of alcohol a week — the guideline limit is 14, but it’s helpful that he has alcohol-free days.

Alcohol can be calorific and this may explain why his BMI is higher than it should be. That said, studies have shown that carrying 5 to 10lb above normal weight when you are over 60 is linked to living longer and protecting older adults from osteoporosis.

Active ageing is as much about the mind as the body, so doing puzzles is good. Research suggests social interaction also has a direct impact on wellbeing — learning new skills, such as a language, in a group setting helps, too.

LOVES PILATES AND ENJOYS PAINKILLERS

Thelma Williams, 84, a retired therapist and trauma counsellor, lives in Beaconsfield, Bucks, with her husband, Paul, 80. She has one daughter and two grandchildren. Thelma is 5ft 4in and weighs 9st 6lb (BMI 23, ‘healthy’).

I’ve never been a pill popper. I don’t even like taking painkillers — and I also kept this to a minimum when I had a knee replacement nine years ago.

I’m not being a martyr; I just don’t like overtaxing the system with medication.

Radiant: Thelma Williams, 84, a retired therapist and trauma counsellor, lives in Beaconsfield, Bucks, with her husband, Paul, 80

In fact, when I had breast cancer six years ago — it was a tiny lump, so I had a lumpectomy — I was prescribed tamoxifen to stop it returning, but only took it for a week. I hated the side-effects — I was tired and aching and didn’t want to spend my old age feeling like that. My GP accepted it (I think because of my age), though I am not advocating that everyone does this.

I eat fish at least twice a week and there is very little red meat in my diet. I don’t drink caffeine, but I enjoy red bush tea.

I eat fish at least twice a week and there is very little red meat in my diet. I don’t drink caffeine, but I enjoy red bush tea.

After my first husband died suddenly from asthma aged 46, I took up sailing and aerobics. I’m a little bit old for that now, but I’ve been going to Pilates twice a week for the past 15 to 20 years and use an exercise bike every day for at least 15 minutes.

Until eight years ago, I was a volunteer for Childline. I also read a lot. It’s important to keep your mind occupied. Genes help, too — my mother died at 86 and never had a day’s illness (my father died at 71 — still a good age then).

I don’t recall having a cholesterol test and, when I admitted this to my GP, he laughed and said if I’d got to this age without knowing my readings, I was probably OK.

EXPERT COMMENT: Thelma has a good diet and lifestyle and Pilates will help increase her strength and flexibility so it is great for balance — and preventing falls.

However, having had a knee replacement after suffering osteoporosis, she should do some weight-bearing exercise — simple things such as climbing stairs or walking around the garden.

A few cups of tea or coffee a day are perfectly fine, but red bush is a good alternative to caffeine, as it’s high in antioxidants (which minimise the cell damage that may lead to heart disease or cancer) and vitamin C, which will boost her immune system.

I would never advocate a patient stopping medication without consulting their doctor, but there’s no doubt polypharmacy — taking many prescription and over-the-counter medicines — is of concern for the elderly, as there can be a risk of adverse reactions between drugs, especially if they’re not regularly reviewed.

VEGETARIAN FOR 60 YEARS AND NEVER TAKEN PILLS

Jane Graham, 83, a retired counsellor and therapist, lives in Manchester with her husband, David, 86, a retired charity researcher. They have five children and eight grandchildren. She is 5ft 1in and weighs 10st (BMI 26, just ‘overweight’).

I became a vegetarian when I married David 60 years ago — he didn’t eat meat and I didn’t want to have to cook two different meals every night.

Then I started to learn about veganism and realised that it would be even healthier and more environmentally friendly, so I have been vegan for 15 years.

Ageing well: Jane Graham, 83, a retired counsellor and therapist, lives in Manchester with her husband, David, 86, a retired charity researcher

I do feel I am proof of the pudding. I’ve never taken any prescription medication (or supplements) and I can’t remember the last time I saw a doctor.

David and I set up the Vegan Organic Network charity to promote how vegan food is grown. I believe this keeps my brain strong, as it’s always being challenged. I do a crossword every day, too, and love Sudoku — I do it in the middle of the night if I can’t sleep.

I’ve never been a smoker and only drink when we have friends over.

I walk every day (between half a mile and two miles), but I could do with losing about a stone.

EXPERT COMMENT: Clearly, Jane is doing something right, since she’s never taken any pills. However, as a vegan, it’s especially important she gets enough iron and vitamin B12, which is generally not present in plant products — perhaps from fortified cereals. When it comes to calories, with all diets, balance is key — be it for meat-eaters or vegans. Jane says that she’d like to lose a little weight, which would be good for her overall health.

She could also do with getting a little more exercise — she should aim for half an hour a day of moderate aerobic activity, perhaps by finding a gym class. The biggest problem at this stage of life is deconditioning, where a loss of fitness, strength and muscle bulk can lead to falls and loss of independence.

THE MAN WHO'S 93 BUT FEELS 25

Pete Murray OBE, 93, is a widower and former broadcaster who lives in London. He is 6ft and weighs 11st (BMI 21, ‘healthy’).

I recently read about a chap who is legally trying to change his age from 69 to 49. I know how he feels: in my head, I’m 25. I never think about being old — it can be so ageing.

Man power! Pete Murray OBE, 93, is a widower and former broadcaster who lives in London

I’m proud I’ve got here without taking a single pill. I have good genes on my mother’s side — she died three months shy of her 100th birthday. (Sadly, my father passed away at 44 from a complication of being gassed in World War I.)

Admittedly, I can feel my muscles getting weaker, but I try to combat that by staying active. I play nine holes of golf a couple of times a week (I use a buggy to get around) and walk up and down the stairs at home — my house has four storeys.

A lively mind is also important: I enjoy crosswords, seeing friends and going to social events. I am teetotal — I come from three generations of publicans and just cannot stand the smell of alcohol. I was pescatarian from a young age but, about eight years ago, I suddenly went off fish, too.

EXPERT COMMENT: To reach 93 without taking medication is quite remarkable.

And avoiding alcohol can only benefit health — consumption has been linked to weight gain, cancer and other health issues.

Social interaction and general mental stimulation are likely to assist in delaying the onset of memory decline, too.

Pete could make a few tweaks. He needs to get enough iron and B12 for healthy nerves and blood cells healthy, so might consider a supplement.

And he could try a little more walking on the golf course, rather than using the buggy.

It’s great that Pete feels younger than he is — a study from Seoul National University in Korea found elderly people who feel younger than their age had younger estimated brain health, too!

====== 1755 ========

DR MARTIN SCURR HITS OUT AT THE GENERAL MEDICAL COUNCIL

Some years ago I had a pregnant patient who was also under the care of a plastic surgeon with a tendency to range far beyond his area of supposed expertise.

He decided that my patient had a thyroid condition and should undergo a scan using radioactive isotopes to determine the problem.

Thankfully, she told me. I was appalled, not least because the concentrated radioactive material used in such a test could be highly damaging to her unborn child.

I could not believe any reputable doctor would have come up with such a dangerous proposal, so I decided to investigate his credentials.

Dr Martin Scurr writes on the current state of affairs surrounding the General Medical Council that recently fell under further scrutiny after not checking the documentation of 'psychiatrist' Zholia Alemi. (Stock image)

He hadn't studied or trained in the UK, and I discovered that he did not have a PhD from Oxford University, as he claimed, nor was he a Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons.

Deeply concerned about the potential for gross malpractice, I rang the General Medical Council, the supposed guardian of professional standards in medicine.

Flaws

To my amazement, the GMC wasn't interested.

Indeed, I was treated with deep hostility for daring to question the surgeon's credentials.

The Council not only said that it would refuse to investigate, but also warned me to be careful about undermining a colleague.

Zholia Alemi, believed to be of Iranian extraction, was employed in the NHS for 22 years without any medical qualifications and no one at the GMC checked whether Ms Alemi's documentation was genuine

Here was I, the whistleblower — worried about my patient and any others being treated by a doctor who did not possess the qualifications he claimed — but I was being made to feel as if I was in the wrong.

It was a Kafkaesque saga and one of a number of episodes in more than 40 years as a medical practitioner that have provided me with an insight into the GMC's profound flaws.

So I was saddened — but not surprised — to have my disillusionment dramatically reinforced this week by a new scandal linked to the watchdog.

As the Mail reported yesterday, 'psychiatrist' Zholia Alemi, believed to be of Iranian extraction, was employed in the NHS for 22 years without any medical qualifications.

Unbelievably, no one at the GMC, which is responsible for vetting foreign doctors, had checked whether Ms Alemi's documentation was genuine.

This shameful negligence meant the bogus psychiatrist was able to carry on working for decades, perhaps putting patients' lives and mental health at severe risk.

As a measure of the seriousness of the case, the Department of Health has launched an inquiry and set up an emergency hotline, while the backgrounds of no fewer than 3,000 foreign doctors in the NHS are being urgently re-examined.

This is the job the GMC should have done properly in the first place.

I am certain Ms Alemi's case is far from unique, given the GMC's chronic weaknesses.

The rigorous oversight of qualifications should be at the absolute core of its work, but I am afraid the GMC has badly lost its sense of purpose.

Like so many quangos, it has become an expensive, bloated talking shop, so bogged down in bureaucratic initiatives and the protection of vested interests that it cannot focus properly on its key duties.

I do not know a single doctor who holds the GMC in high regard.

The central problem, I believe, is that the GMC is driven by a determination to uphold the reputation of the profession at all costs, rather than improve the quality of patient care by stringent policing methods.

It explains why you will hardly ever hear a GMC representative expressing concern about the loss of the GPs' out-of-hours service over the past 20 years, or the NHS's poor cancer survival rates compared to other European nations.

It is also why the GMC reacts so aggressively to the least criticism by doctors of its work.

Abuse

Fearful of repercussions, few practitioners are willing to speak out about its flaws. And in this climate of censorship, warped priorities prevail.

Far worse was the case of Dr Harold Shipman, a murderer whom the GMC could have stopped

The GMC's defensive posturing over the profession's image means the Council is far harsher about doctors' moral misconduct — drink-driving or relationships with patients, for example — than it is about the inadequacy of treatment or the integrity of qualifications.

I think the GMC's approach is wrong and counter-productive. What really concerns the public is quality of care.

Nothing does more harm to the medical profession than incidences of abuse — like that of 'Dr' Alemi.

Of course, far worse was the case of Dr Harold Shipman, a murderer whom I believe the GMC could have stopped before his killing spree began.

In 1975, Shipman was arrested and convicted of forging prescriptions for pethidine — a controlled drug which is strictly regulated — for his own use.

He was fined £600 and required to attend a drug rehabilitation clinic, but he was not struck off the medical register by the GMC.

Later, using the same method of writing out false prescriptions, Shipman stockpiled a vast arsenal of morphine with which he is believed to have murdered up to 250 patients.

My own practice has yielded other examples of the GMC's ineptitude. I had a patient who kept inexplicably collapsing and on the third occasion this happened, I visited her home, where she was lying unconscious on the floor.

The General Medical Council is the public body overseeing patient care and ensuring proper standards in the practice of medicine

On searching her bathroom, I found a large store of Tenuate Dospan, an extreme weight- loss drug linked to addiction, heart attacks and strokes.

This appeared to be the cause of my patient's problems, so I asked her family where the drug had been obtained.

'From a private doctor in North London,' I was told. He was apparently writing prescriptions at £20 a go for the pills.

Aggressive

Again I complained to the GMC. Once more, my concern was dismissed with aggressive contempt and no follow up. In effect, I was warned to mind what I said.

It was the same negative story when I was the chairman of the ethics committee at a London hospital and dealing with a major ethics dilemma involving the hospital directors, with far-reaching implications for the patients.

When I turned to the GMC for advice — it has an ethics committee — I was informed that I was on my own.

It is not as if the organisation does not have the resources to provide proper support and uphold standards.

When I started as a doctor in the Seventies, I paid £25 a year to an organisation run by a few officials.

Today I pay hundreds of pounds annually in fees to prop up a sprawling bureaucracy that last year spent £99 million, had total reserves of £80 million and employed 1,135 staff.

Yet the GMC cannot even do the basics properly. It employs 23 officers in 'communications' and 55 in 'external relations'.

No fewer than 28 employees earn more than £100,000 a year, and, according to the last annual report, seven of them are on over £180,000 a year.

The same report reveals, in typical jargonese, that the GMC had 'created a Policy Leadership Group to provide a collective vision for GMC policy in the context of our corporate strategy'.

The GMC also boasted of its plans to establish a 'Strategy and Policy Directorate' and a 'Communications and Engagement Directorate' to 'strengthen engagement with all key interest groups'.

Little wonder one ex-GMC employee has described 'tons of over-the-top bureaucracy . . . and lots of energy going into maintaining fiefdoms. Senior management was focused on one-upmanship and petty run-ins'.

It is exactly that culture which has led the GMC to lose its way so badly — and it is hugely detrimental to patient care.

Who is watching the watchdog? Why has it got away with presiding over scandal after scandal?

Isn't it time the GMC is opened to scrutiny, not least because patients' lives may be at stake?

====== 1756 ========

DEPRESSED PEOPLE AT HIGHER RISK OF STROKES AND PREMATURE DEATH CAUSED BY IRREGULAR HEARTBEATS

Depressed people are at a higher risk of suffering from irregular heartbeats that cause strokes and premature death, according to a new study.

But it's not their anti-depressants that triggers it. In fact, their medication seems to lower their higher-than-average risk.

Researchers at Aarhus University in Denmark studied 785,254 participants who took mood-stabilising drugs from 2000 to 2013, starting from the month before they began treatment.

They found that patients taking antidepressants had a 3.18-fold higher risk of atrial fibrillation during the first month of treatment. But the risk risk was even higher in the month before at 7.65-fold.

The scientists put the findings down to simply a 'connection between the mind and the heart'.

Link: Depressed people are at a higher risk of suffering from irregular heartbeats that cause strokes and premature death, according to a new study by Aarhus University in Denmark

Furthermore, the association between arrhythmia and depression gradually reduced thereafter, to 1.37-fold between two to six months of treatment, and 1.11-fold at six to 12 months.

This means that while depressed people may be more likely to suffer from irregular or unusually fast heartbeats, their drug treatments seem to reduce it.

Study author Morten Fenger-Grøn said: 'It is common knowledge that there is a connection between the mind and the heart.

'Depression predicts the development of coronary artery disease and worsens its prognosis. Our study investigated whether depression is also linked with atrial fibrillation

'This suggests that antidepressant medication itself is not associated with the development of atrial fibrillation.

'If you are depressed, there is no reason to worry that taking drug treatment will cause atrial fibrillation.'

Risk? Anti-depressants have been linked with serious, but rare, heart rhythm disturbances, prompting the question of whether they might also raise the risk of atrial fibrillation

WHAT IS DEPRESSION? While it is normal to feel down from time to time, people with depression may feel persistently unhappy for weeks or months on end. Depression can affect anyone at any age and is fairly common – approximately one in ten people are likely to experience at some point in their life. Depression is a genuine health condition which people cannot just ignore or 'snap out of it'. Symptoms and effects vary, but can include constantly feeling upset or hopeless, or losing interest in things you used to enjoy. It can also cause physical symptoms such as problems sleeping, tiredness, having a low appetite or sex drive, and even feeling physical pain. In extreme cases it can lead to suicidal thoughts. Traumatic events can trigger it, and people with a family history may be more at risk. It is important to see a doctor if you think you or someone you know has depression, as it can be managed with lifestyle changes, therapy or medication. Source: NHS Choices

'In Denmark it is not typical for doctors to prescribe antidepressants at the first appointment.

Our findings indicate that the initial conversation with a doctor may start to ease depressive symptoms.'

One in four middle-aged adults in Europe and the US will develop atrial fibrillation.

It is estimated that by 2030 there will be 14 to 17 million patients with atrial fibrillation in the European Union, with 120,000-215,000 new diagnoses each year.

Signs of atrial fibrillation include palpitations, shortness of breath, tiredness, chest pain and dizziness.

Previous studies have found associations between depression a higher mortality in atrial fibrillation patients.

Anti-depressants have been linked with some serious, but rare, heart rhythm disturbances, prompting the question of whether they might also raise the risk of atrial fibrillation.

Mr Fenger-Grøn said: 'Filling a prescription for antidepressants, which we used as an indicator of depression, was associated with a three-fold greater risk of atrial fibrillation. The decrease with time could suggest that treatment may alleviate this risk."

'The message for patients who already have atrial fibrillation is that you do not need to be concerned about taking antidepressant medication if you need it.

'Look after your mental health because our study supports existing evidence that problems with the mind can be detrimental for the heart.'

The study was published in the European Journal of Preventive Cardiology.

====== 1757 ========

MOTHER WHO LOST CUSTODY OF HER SON AFTER SHE STOPPED HIS CHEMO FIGHTS TO WIN HIM BACK

A New York mother is fighting to win back custody of her 13-year-old son after she stopped his chemotherapy treatments when he went into remission from cancer.

Nicholas Gundersen has been undergoing court-mandated chemotherapy at NYU Winthrop Hospital in Mineola for a rare and deadly form of leukemia.

His mother, Candace, lost temporary custody of her son earlier this month after she refused to admit him to the hospital and took him to Florida to seek 'alternative treatments'.

Candace, who is a holistic and wellness coach, says the chemotherapy is hurting her son's health - but doctors argue that Nicholas's cancer is not gone and, if he doesn't continue to receive treatment, the disease could return and kill him.

Candace Gundersen is fighting to win back custody of her 13-year-old son Nicholas (pictured) after she demanded his chemotherapy treatments stop when he went into remission

Nicholas (pictured) been undergoing court-mandated chemotherapy at NYU Winthrop Hospital in Mineola since October after he was diagnosed with a rare form of leukemia

Candace (pictured), who is a holistic and wellness coach, was actively against her son receiving chemotherapy from the start and wanted Nicholas to receive 'nontoxic' alternative care, including healthy foods, juices and supplements

In a video from Winthrop Hospital, Nicholas said that he felt like he is a hostage.

'I don't have cancer, so there is no need for chemotherapy,' he says. 'It's causing me a lot of stress and I can't deal with it anymore.'

Doctors insist they are trying to reduce the recurrence of the cancer, but Candace says she doesn't believe that physicians actually have her son's best interests at heart.

'They have literally taken away my ability to protect him and look after him in the very best way I know how,' she told reporters at a news conference on November 9.

'Once the cancer cells are no longer present, the chemotherapy just destroys the body and I don't agree with that. I feel my son should have the opportunity to pursue a nontoxic alternative.'

Alternative therapy are used in replacement of conventional therapy, different from complementary therapy, which is used in addition to conventonal treatments.

In June 2018, Nicholas was diagnosed with mixed phenotype acute leukemia, which is two forms of leukemia combined: acute myeloid leukemia and acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

It is very rare, representing two to three percent of all cases of acute leukemia, a rapidly spreading form of the disease. Five-year survival rates are 50 percent.

After being declared to be in remission, doctors told Candace that her son would need chemotherapy for two to three more years to prevent the cancer's recurrence. Pictured: Candace hugs her son before he is taken away by CPS

After missing his appointments twice and being taken to Florida for 'alternative treatments' Suffolk County Child Protective Services took custody of Nicholas (pictured)

The fast-moving nature of mixed phenotype acute leukemia means it is especially crucial for people who are newly diagnosed to be treated quickly.

According to St Jude Children's Research Hospital, there are two phases of treatment.

The first is the induction phase, which focuses on using chemotherapy to rid the body of leukemia cells.

The second is the post-remission phase, which focuses on destroying any hidden cells, meaning potentially more chemotherapy or a stem cell transplant.

Nicholas's mother, Candace, told ABC 7 that she agreed to the first round of chemotherapy after doctors at Cohen Children's Medical Center told her they would call Child Protective Services (CPS) to take custody of her son if she did not sign the consent form.

Candace said her son spent a month at Cohen where he 'lost over 20 percent of his body weight', had an inflamed cecum (a pouch connected to the junction of the small and large intestines), and even stropped breathing a few times.

Nicholas was discharged on July 24 and received outpatient treatment until the end of August. When his doctors determined he needed further chemotherapy, Candace refused to readmit her son to the hospital.

A doctor at Cohen's called Suffolk County CPS and Nicholas was removed from his home over Labor Day weekend.

He was taken to NYU Winthrop where he spent a month. Despite being declared to be in remission, doctors told Candace her son would need to undergo three years of chemotherapy.

That is the standard in cases like Nicholas's, but did not sit well with his mother, who wanted Nicholas to receive 'nontoxic alternative care', including healthy foods, juices and supplements.

In a video from Winthrop Hospital, Nicholas (left and right) said that he felt like he is a hostage. He is seen saying: 'I don't have cancer, so there is no need for chemotherapy. It's causing me a lot of stress and I can't deal with it anymore'

Nicholas (pictured) has been placed in the care of Sarah Murphy, a family friend, and will continue to receive outpatient treatment. Candace can live with the guardian and her son, but is not allowed to make any medical decisions

Candace is taking the case is being taken to trial and a judgment will likely be handed down in December. Pictured: NYU Winthrop Hospital where Nicholas is undergoing chemotherapy

Twice he did not show up for his appointments. After the second time, Suffolk County CPS took custody of the boy and placed him in the care of Sarah Murphy, a family friend, according to Newsday.

'The thing that concerns me is how this is impacting him because when they take me out of the equation...it's devastating to Nicholas,' said Candace, who can live with the guardian and her son, but is not allowed to make any medical decisions.

NBC New York reported that Nicholas has a GPS bracelet to track his movements and Murphy says she will abide by doctor's orders and take the boy to the hospital for treatment.

'Unless chemotherapy is continued, those [cancer] cells can once again multiply and the results are usually fatal,' said hospital spokesman J Edmond Keating.

The case is being taken to trial and a judgment will likely be handed down in December.

'A parent's desire to provide a child with which she feels is the most appropriate level of treatment should be given the first consideration,' said the Gundersen family attorney Elliot Schlissel at a press conference.

'Candace wants her child to have the best quality of life for the few years he has left. They are treating him for cancer that does not exist at this time.'

Almost 40 percent of American believe alternative therapies can cure cancer, despite no evidence to suggest otherwise.

A study from Yale University released in July found that cancer patients who use complementary medicine are more likely to die because they have a higher risk of foregoing their conventional treatment.

However, lead author Dr Cary Gross told DailyMail.com she believes doctors need to discuss non-traditional treatments with their patients, who in desperate times maybe decide to seek the complementary care on their own.

====== 1758 ========

ME & MY OPERATION: THE GENE OP THAT COULD STOP ME FROM GOING BLIND

THE PATIENT

At 17 I was diagnosed with choroideremia, a genetic disease where the cells in the retina, at the back of the eye, slowly die.

My sight had gradually worsened since I was found to be short-sighted at the age of 11 — and now I was being told this disease could leave me blind by the time I was 40. The news was devastating.

There was no treatment, but my doctor said medical research was moving along, so there could be hope in the future. In the meantime, I tried to live a normal life, wearing ever-stronger glasses.

Patient: Philip Ainsworth's sight was blighted by choroideremia from a young age

As predicted, my night vision worsened first, so I always took a torch after dark. My peripheral vision reduced too, meaning I looked at life through a very small hole — I couldn’t see people unless they were right in front of me.

I used magnifying glasses to read and each year I’d see my optician for a check-up.

Then seven years ago, I read an article in Good Health about how gene therapy could save the sight of those with choroideremia. I showed it to my GP and a few weeks later I had an appointment with Professor Robert MacLaren, who was leading the trial.

He told me the therapy involved temporarily detaching the retina and injecting healthy genes into the surviving retina cells to ‘reboot’ them. Although it would not restore my sight, it should save what vision I had left. I underwent lots of eye tests over the next three years, and when there was funding for the UK trial, I was one of 14 taking part.

In the trial, only one eye is treated — normally the worst; the other eye is used to gauge how well the treatment has worked.

But as my vision was so poor in my worst eye, they decided it would be more beneficial to treat my best eye, the left. I was the first in the world to have my best eye treated.

Shock: 'My sight had gradually worsened since I was found to be short-sighted at the age of 11 — and now I was being told this disease could leave me blind by the time I was 40,' he says

I had the operation under general anaesthetic, and after a night in hospital, I had more vision tests. On the eye test chart, I could read two fewer lines than before the surgery — which was to be expected as my retina hadn’t healed.

In the next week, as my eye recovered, all the colours looked more vivid. It was as if the brightness control on the television had been turned up.

A month later, I could read one more line on the chart than before the surgery which was fantastic.

The sight in my treated eye has slightly improved in the three years since. The other continues to deteriorate — I now see just two dots of light in it. The jab has allowed me to enjoy retirement. I’m still able to travel with my wife Rhiannon, enjoy time with my daughters, read, watch TV and learn languages. I’m so grateful.

THE CONSULTANT

Professor Robert MacLaren is a consultant ophthalmologist at Oxford Eye Hospital.

Usually presenting in boys in late childhood, choroideremia causes permanent blindness. First night vision is lost, then peripheral vision. By age 40, sight is extremely poor. It affects one in 50,000.

This inherited disease is caused by a missing gene known as REP1 protein, which is crucial for the functioning of the cells that line the retina — the thin layer of tissue stimulated by light which is converted into brain signals, allowing us to see. The absence of REP1 means these cells gradually die.

Did you know? Usually presenting in boys in late childhood, choroideremia causes permanent blindness. First night vision is lost, then peripheral vision.

But now there is some hope for serious eye conditions, including, potentially, age-related macular degeneration (AMD), although the treatment might take a slightly different form. For choroideremia, we use a single injection of billions of missing genes to reboot the retina cells.

It’s delicate surgery, in an area about 1mm square and can take two hours.

I make an incision through the white of the eye and use a needle to remove the jelly-like substance that gives the eyeball its shape, called the vitreous.

I then detach the retina by injecting fluid under it, using a needle thinner than a human hair. This slightly lifts the retina. It’s into this space that the genes will be injected. The missing REP1 gene is put into a virus solution. Purified so it is harmless, the virus works like a Trojan horse by infecting the retinal cells, and activating them with the REP1.

WHAT ARE THE RISKS? The main risk is damage to the retina during the procedure. There is a low risk of infection. ‘The eye is ideal for gene therapy as a relatively small area needs treating and it’s fairly accessible,’ says Professor Andrew Lotery, a consultant ophthalmologist at Southampton General Hospital. ‘Gene therapy holds a lot of promise, especially in the early stages of the disease where there will be less damage to the retina. But the cost is high [thousands of pounds] and would need to reduce in order to be viable.’

I position the needle using a microscope, and once the solution has been delivered, we close the incision. The bubble under the retina dissipates, so it settles back into position.

Because the retina has been detached, the patient’s vision might be worse at first.

One week after surgery, we expect sight to be as it was before the operation — and by the following week, it may have improved. We monitor the patient for two years and only then know if it has been a success. The gene therapy is designed to slow sight loss to the point where patients can live a normal life.

The results of the trial involving Philip and 13 others were published recently in the journal Nature Medicine. All but two experienced improvements to their vision.

I’m involved with two more trials for choroideremia — one of which treats 100 patients from across Europe and North America.

If it proves successful, we hope to gain regulatory approval. I have no doubt that, in future, we will treat AMD, the most common cause of permanent blindness in the UK.

In theory, any genetic eye condition could be treated using gene therapy.

====== 1759 ========

LYME DISEASE WAS CAUSING JAMES DELLINGPOLE'S BRAIN FOG AND DEPRESSION

Health affliction: James Dellingpole, 53, has suffered for many years with Lyme Disease

Almost the worst thing about Lyme disease — almost worse than the migraines, brain fog, night sweats, chronic fatigue, depression, panic attacks, insomnia, neck ache, facial twitch, numbness, shooting pains, arthritic joints and the sensation of impending death — is that no one believes your problem is real.

You complain to the family and they say: ‘Off he goes again. What is it this time — a brain tumour?’

You moan to the wife and she says: ‘But I thought you’d been told years ago that it wasn’t Lyme?’

You tell your doctor you think you’ve got Lyme, and he says: ‘Now let’s see if we can get to the bottom of what’s really wrong with you.’

I know this because I’ve had this increasingly common tick-borne infection for years, though I was only recently diagnosed. Having been fobbed off so many times by experts who just knew that whatever I had wasn’t Lyme, I ended up forking out more than £1,200 to have my blood tested in Germany.

Lyme is notoriously tricky to diagnose. The basic blood test — known as Elisa — is prone to false negatives: in about 50 per cent of cases it tells people who do have Lyme that they’re not infected, as it did in my case.

This is a problem, since in the UK your GP won’t usually refer you for further tests without a positive Elisa test. That’s if your GP refers you for an Elisa in the first place.

Even though any Lyme specialist looking through my medical history would have worked out instantly what the problem was, few GPs are up to the job.

To be fair, it’s not their fault: as far as I’ve been able to find out, there is not a single Lyme consultant in the whole NHS and though in April, NICE revised its guidelines to warn that ‘infected ticks are found throughout the UK and Ireland’, inevitably it’s going to be quite some time before GPs catch up.

Lyme is known as the ‘great mimic’ because it presents with the symptoms of so many different diseases. One week you’ll be going to the doctor complaining of a flu you just can’t shake off, the next with what looks worryingly like multiple sclerosis, the next what you fear might be early onset dementia.

I’ve had tests for all manner of such conditions over the years — X-rays of my joints and my lungs, nerve conduction tests for carpal tunnel syndrome (compressed wrist nerves), blood tests for everything under the sun.

It was all a waste of time and NHS money.

Tick-borne: Lyme, which is contracted through a tick bite, is known as the ‘great mimic’ because it presents with the symptoms of so many different diseases

Eventually I gave up and did what you’re never supposed to do: I began self-diagnosing on the internet. I read how the singer Kris Kristofferson’s Lyme had been misdiagnosed as having Alzheimer’s because of the sporadic brain fogs which made it impossible for him to think clearly.

‘Hey! I get those,’ I thought — and began doing more research.

Kristofferson is one of several well-known Lyme victims. Others include reality TV star Kelly Osbourne, models Bella Hadid and Christy Turlington, pop singers Avril Lavigne and Neneh Cherry, President George W. Bush and Hollywood actors Alec Baldwin and Ben Stiller.

Yet despite the increasingly high profile of what some experts call a ‘silent pandemic’, Lyme remains remarkably little understood.

I’ve had this increasingly common tick-borne infection for years, though I was only recently diagnosed. Having been fobbed off so many times by experts who just knew that whatever I had wasn’t Lyme, I ended up forking out more than £1,200 to have my blood tested in Germany. James Dellingpole

We know it’s spread mainly by ticks; that these ticks are rife — from the U.S. to Australia to many parts of Britain and Europe; that if you don’t catch the disease early with strong antibiotics it can lead to all manner of complications; that because it’s hard to test for, it’s often not diagnosed, so many more people are suffering from it than the official figures acknowledge.

My Lyme journey began, as they always do, with a tick bite. But I never got the tell-tale ‘bullseye’ rash, which appears in less than 50 per cent of cases, so I have no idea how long I’ve had it. Lots of people harbour Lyme for years without being aware of it.

This is unfortunate, since only in the early stages can it be zapped effectively — with a heavy and prolonged dose of antibiotics. Once it becomes embedded, it not only becomes much trickier to treat, but also starts to cause neurological damage.

There’s the brain fog — this classic symptom feels as if your brain has gone on strike, sometimes causing you to forget words or even the names of people you know well. It can appear quite out of the blue — it struck me in the middle of my one and only appearance on BBC Question Time — and is hugely frustrating.

Before I identified what it was, I used to try curing it by going on an especially vigorous run or having a really strong cup of coffee. But actually, these only serve to stress your struggling body.

Fellow sufferer: Actor Alec Baldwin (pictured with his wife, Hilaria) also has the condition

Struggle: Model Bella Hadid has also been struck-down with the infectious disease

Hollywood: Actor Ben Stiller has previously spoken about his experience with Lyme Disease

Most recently, I’ve been getting problems with my nervous system: pins and needles; weird shooting pains; occasionally a creeping numbness which begins in the feet or hands and gradually envelopes the whole limb. NHS doctors are happy to treat these symptomatically: I’ve had X-rays and cortisone injections for arthritis, and electromyography tests for suspected carpal tunnel syndrome. What they never address is the root cause.

That’s why, when you do get your Lyme diagnosis, it can come as such a relief. Finally, you get an answer to the question that has been haunting you for years: ‘Why do I never feel fully well?’

Suddenly it all made sense — everything from my year-and-a-half of insomnia, the long period where I was floored with suspected chronic fatigue; and also, smaller but niggling conditions such as my restless legs syndrome, and the ugly subcutaneous lumps which appeared one day on my torso, arms and legs.

HOW TO GET TESTED Carrier: Ticks are the source of Lymes The NHS Lyme test checks for antibodies to the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi. After a positive result, patients are offered a second test, an immunoblot, to look for specific antibodies. But as it can take six to eight weeks before antibodies develop, tests soon after a tick bite may not detect Lyme. Some patients are turning to private clinics in Germany for blood tests not available in the UK. However, Stella Huyshe-Shires, of Lyme Disease Action, says some use tests not specific for Lyme, so a positive result may not mean that Lyme is the cause of that patient’s problems.

‘Oh, those are lipomas,’ said my GP cheerily. ‘Yes. But why have I got them?’ I asked.

He didn’t know. I was later told by one expert in Germany that they are present in around half the Lyme patients he treats. You’d think the word would have got out by now, wouldn’t you? But it hasn’t.

This is a frustration all Lyme victims share: the sense that we’ve been brushed under the carpet because mainstream medicine finds us too difficult — or too expensive — to deal with.

It’s why Phones4u billionaire John Caudwell set up his charity Caudwell LymeCo — to educate the public on Lyme prevention and awareness, and to encourage the NHS to take it more seriously.

Caudwell himself has Lyme, along with 11 members of family — including one adult son who has been devastatingly ill with the condition since he was ten.

‘It steals your life, it steals your brain. It’s horrible and the number of people suffering is endless. Yet they’ve been hung out to dry, dispensed with like they are hypochondriacs,’ Caudwell told me.

Part of the problem, says Bijan Boustani, a doctor who treats Lyme patients at the Infusio clinic in Frankfurt, is that — unlike in Germany — British medics aren’t taught about the disease during their training.

‘Ninety per cent of those we see from the UK have been misdiagnosed with burnout or depression. They get passed from one specialist to another, and their condition just gets worse.’

Carsten Nicolaus, a GP and Lyme specialist at BCA Clinic in Augsburg, Germany, explains that Lyme is one of the most elusive and difficult conditions there is.

The main cause of Lyme is a bacterium called Borrelia, which has 52 different known species. My tests showed I have at least two of them — Miyamotoi and the most common one, Burgdorferi. One reason they’re so hard to detect is they keep changing shape, sometimes fooling the immune system into thinking they are friendly.

But often the most debilitating symptoms are caused not by the Borrelia, but by the cocktail of co-infections, including chlamydia from the same tick bite. On top of that, it seems Borrelia can weaken the immune system and reactivate dormant viruses.

Can it be cured? That’s a question I hope to address more thoroughly after I’ve been to Germany for experimental treatment.

Lyme is horrid thing to discover you have; but I promise you, just knowing is a major step to feeling a whole lot better already.

====== 1760 ========

NEWLYWED STRUCK DOWN BY POLIO-LIKE ILLNESS ON DREAM HONEYMOON AFTER COMING DOWN WITH A COMMON COLD

A Wisconsin man was struck down with a rare polio-like illness just days after he got married.

Adam and Bridget Spoerri, from Burnham Park, were on their honeymoon in late July on Lake Superior when both of them came down with a cold.

Bridget's symptoms improved, but Adam's didn't. Within a week, his facial muscles became paralyzed, he could not swallow and he was struggling to breathe.

He was rushed to Aurora St Luke's Medical Center where doctors diagnosed him with acute flaccid myelitis (AFM).

Adam is currently the only adult in Wisconsin to come down with the illness that so far affected 89 others in 27 states, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Adam and Bridget Spoerri, from Burnhan Park, Wisconsin, fell sick while on their honeymoon in July, just days after getting married (pictured). Bridget's symptoms improved but Adam's did not

Adam gradually became paralyzed and struggled to breathe. In September, he was diagnosed with acute flaccid myelitis. Pictured: Adam and Bridget in the hospital

AFM is a rare, but serious condition that affects the nervous system. Specifically it attacks the area of spinal cord called gray matter, which causes the body's muscles and reflexes to weaken.

Symptoms often develop after a viral infection, such as poliovirus or West Nile virus, but often no clear cause is found.

Patients start off having flu-like symptom including sneezing and coughing. This slowly turns into muscle weakness, difficulty moving the eyes and then polio-like symptoms including facial drooping and difficulty swallowing.

The CDC says that mainly children are affected with more than 80 falling ill and another 162 cases still under investigation

In the most severe cases, respiratory failure can occur when the muscles that support breathing become weak.

In rare cases, AFM can cause neurological complications that could lead to death.

No specific treatment is available for AFM and interventions are generally recommended on a case-by-case basis.

Adam was diagnosed with AFM in Septmeber, which his family believes he was at risk for because of the immunosuppressant drugs he was taking for asthma and Crohn's disease.

'His head became very weak. He could not swallow and then his breathing was very labored,' Bridget told Fox 6.

'He's still flaccid in his shoulders, his back muscles, his neck is pretty weak.

According to a GoFundMe page that was set up by family friends of the couple, Adam is still not able to speak and the couple have been communicating via a notepad.

'I thought he was dying every day those first two weeks. I had no hope,' Bridget told the Journal Sentinel.

Adam is currently the only adult in Wisconsin to come down with the illness that so far affected 89 others in 27 states, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

The 30-year-old (pictured) has been transferred to the Post Acute Medical Specialty Hospital, a long-term care facility in Milwaukee, for rehabilitation

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) does not track AFM in terms of its prevalence, but rather in outbreaks.

The agency has confirmed 362 cases since an outbreak in Colorado in August 2014, almost all of them in children.

This suggests the pattern of an infectious disease, but much remains unknown about the condition.

Currently, doctors are working to wean Adam off the breathing ventilator he's been on since August. According to the Journal Sentinel his record is more than 34 hours.

Adam has been transferred from Aurora St. Luke's Medical Center to the Post Acute Medical Specialty Hospital, a long-term care facility in Milwaukee.

However, it remains unclear how long he will be there for the recovery process.

'Adam and his wife have shown such strength through this entire illness,' Taylor Finseth, Adam's neurologist at Aurora St Luke's told the Journal Sentinel. '

'They really amaze me. The love that his wife shows for him is incredible.'

A GoFundMe page has been set up to help cover Adam's medical costs. So far, more than $8,100 has been raised out of a $20,000 goal.

====== 1761 ========

CDC LAUNCHES TASK FORCE FOR POLIO-LIKE DISEASE AS MORE CASES EMERGE

Another 16 children have contracted the rare polio-like disease, acute flaccid myelitis (AFM) - bringing the total number of confirmed cases this year to 109 across 29 states, the CDC has revealed.

Another 167 children are showing tell-tale symptoms of the mysterious illness which has emerged as a major public health threat every other year since 2014.

It seems to be caused by a combination of viruses but this year, the third time AFM has surged, the CDC is still struggling to identify exactly how and why it takes hold.

As such, the agency today formed a task force designed to investigate the driving forces and possible treatments of AFM, and to establish what post-AFM life looks like for sufferers.

This year, 90 children have confirmed cases of the polio-like disease AFM, the CDC said Tuesday - but it is not counting the deaths of Carter Roberts, five (pictured), and another child earlier this year following their 2016 contractions of the disease

'I want to reaffirm to parents, patients, and our Nation CDC's commitment to this serious medical condition,' said CDC Director Robert R. Redfield, MD.

'This Task Force will ensure that the full capacity of the scientific community is engaged and working together to provide important answers and solutions to actively detect, more effectively treat, and ultimately prevent AFM and its consequences.'

AFM is not new, but cases have been on the rise since 2014.

Though the condition remains very rare - affecting only one in a million people in the United States - CDC director Dr Robert Redfield, who took the job in March this year, says it is the agency's top priority.

Scientists are investigating a number of causes, including viruses, environmental toxins and genetic disorders.

In previous outbreaks, a virus called EV-D68 was implicated in the development of AFM.

'We know that EV-D68 - as well as other enteroviruses - can cause limb weakness, but we don't know what's triggering AFM in these patients,' said Dr Nancy Messonnier, director of the CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases last week.

'We want to take advantage of all of [our] resources to figure out what is causing AFM.'

She said that the presence of pathogens in the spinal fluid is among the best indicators of AFM - but that doesn't mean the pathogens are the cause, per se.

'It could be one of the viruses we've detected, or it could a virus we haven't detectred, or it could be that [viruses are] kicking off another process' - such as an autoimmune disease or response - 'that is triggering AFM,' Dr Messonnier said.

It's unlikely that the disease is transmissible from human to human, and some children recover from their paralysis, though others never do.

Earlier today, the parents of two children who died of AFM earlier this year after their 2016 diagnoses told CNN they were outraged that that the CDC was not 'counting' their children's deaths.

Hours later, several reporters on the CDC telebriefing reiterated questions about deaths this year to Dr Messonnier.

The CDC has confirmed 386 cases since an outbreak in Colorado in August 2014, almost all of them in children

The CDC says it is investigating 167 cases of acute flaccid myelitis (AFM). Of that number, 109 cases have been confirmed in 29 states, including five-year-old Elizabeth Storrie (pictured) from Willow Park, Texas

She said that no deaths had occurred linked to the 2018 outbreak.

But she did acknowledge that'we have not been following every single AFM patient' diagnosed in previous years,' she said.

'It's a gap in our understanding. We don't understand the long-term effects' but now she says the agency intends to 'follow-up with patients that have gotten [AFM] in previous years.'

The average age of those affected is four years old and more than 90 percent of cases overall are in children under 18.

The condition, caused by a viral infection, appears to start off as a common cold, before progressing to paralysis.

Ominously, data show there seems to be a spike in cases every two years, which has also left the agency baffled.

'CDC's been working very hard on this, since 2014, to try to understand causation and etiology,' Dr Redfield said in the interview, which will be aired on Tuesday.

'As we sit here today, we don't have understanding of the cause. We are, you know, continuing to strengthen our efforts, working in partnership with state and territorial health departments, and academic experts to try to figure this out.'

AFM affects the nervous system and most resembles the polio virus. Health officials have determined it is caused by a virus, but have been unable to pinpoint an exact cause. Orville Young, four (pictured), of Minnesota, was likely the earliest confirmed case in the state

WHAT IS AFM?

AFM is a rare, but serious condition that affects the nervous system. Specifically it attacks the area of the spinal cord called gray matter, which causes the body's muscles and reflexes to weaken.

Symptoms often develop after a viral infection, such as enterovirus or West Nile virus, but often no clear cause is found.

Patients start off having flu-like symptoms including sneezing and coughing. This slowly turns into muscle weakness, difficulty moving the eyes and then polio-like symptoms including facial drooping and difficulty swallowing.

'If [AFM affects gray matter] lower in the spinal cord [paralysis will] be more in the legs and if it's higher up, it'll be more in the arms,' Dr Fernando Acosta, a pediatric neurologist at Cook Children's Medical Center, in Fort Worth, Texas, told Daily Mail Online in an interview last week.

'Or if it's closer to the neck, they can't move head, neck and shoulders. We had one case of that and that was just awful.'

In the most severe cases, respiratory failure can occur when the muscles that support breathing become weak.

In rare cases, AFM can cause neurological complications that could lead to death.

'It's a pretty dramatic disease; children have a sudden onset of weakness,' said Dr Messonier.

No specific treatment is available for AFM and interventions are generally recommended on a case-by-case basis.

Children with weakness in their arms or legs may attend physical or occupational therapy.

The average age of those affected is four years and more than 90 percent of cases are in children aged 18 and younger. Among them is Julia Payne, two (pictured) from Chicago, Illinois

However, physicians admit they are unaware of the long-term outcomes for those with AFM.

WHO HAS BEEN AFFECTED BY AFM?

The CDC does not track AFM in terms of its prevalence, but rather in outbreaks.

The agency has confirmed 386 cases since an outbreak in Colorado in August 2014, almost all of them in children.

The CDC confirmed 33 AFM cases in 2017, 149 cases in 2016, 22 cases in 2015, and 120 cases in August to December 2014.

Of the 62 cases diagnosed this year, it known that 24 have been in three states: 10 in Illinois, eight in Texas and six in Minnesota.

'We have not been able to find the cause of the majority of AFM cases...and we're frustrated that we haven't been able to identify the cause of illness,' Dr Messonnier told reporters in a media call last week.

The states Daily Mail Online is currently aware of with confirmed cases includes: Arizona, Colorado, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Texas and Washington.

A press officer for the CDC told Daily Mail Online last week that the agency would not be naming the additional states where cases have been confirmed due to 'privacy issues'.

While the pattern of AFM most resembles an infectious disease, much remains unknown about the condition.

Among the children infected is two-year-old Julia Payne from Chicago. She remained in the pediatric intensive care unit at Lurie Children's Hospital for weeks on a respirator and using a feeding tube because she was unable to swallow.

She has since been discharged and transferred to Shirley Ryan AbilityLab, a rehabilitation center where she will face several weeks of physical therapy to regain strength and movement.

In Minnesota, four-year-old Orville Young was likely the earliest confirmed case in the state, according to the Star Tribune.

Orville has been in physical therapy for the last month-and-a-half. His mobility and gait have not returned to normal, but his legs are mostly functional now. His right arm, thus far, is still paralyzed.

Fortunately many make a full or nearly full recovery of their movement as did five-year-old Elizabeth Storrie of Willow Park, Texas.

She spent a month at Cook Children's Hospital, in Fort Worth, on IV fluids and a feeding tube until her condition improved.

WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS IN THE FIGHT AGAINST POLIO?

AFM has been called a polio-like illness due to its resemblance to the viral infection that impacted hundreds of thousands, particularly between the late 1940s and early 1950s.

The CDC even states on its website that symptoms 'have been most similar to complications of infection with certain viruses, including poliovirus, non-polio enteroviruses, adenoviruses, and West Nile virus'.

Poliovirus is not the cause of any of the cases, but some cases have been linked to the enteroviruses EV-A71 and EV-D68, both of which are distant relatives of polio.

Some cases have also been linked to rhinovirus.

'I'm not old enough to have seen a case of polio during my time in practice, but my colleagues who have say [AFM] is similar to what they saw back then,' Dr Acosta said.

'Is this a variant? Potentially, but we don't know.'

In 1957, the US government approved the polio vaccine. After a nationwide campaign to get children immunized began, the numbers began falling drastically and, in 1979, polio was declared to be eradicated in the US.

This year, Afghanistan and Pakistan are the only two countries where cases of wild poliovirus have been confirmed - largely due to poor sanitation and low levels of vaccination coverage.

However, global eradication is now at risk due to vaccine-derived poliovirus (VDPV) in five countries in Africa this year.

Health experts say that this could result in silent transmission of both polio and AFM, because both can lead to paralysis if left undetected.

Anti-vaxxers have blamed childhood polio vaccines for the outbreak, despite physicians saying there is no evidence to suggest this is the case.

'There is no evidence vaccines are causing this,' said Dr Acosta.

'And if we identify the agent that is causing it, the next step would be to develop a vaccine. It's the same reason, we developed flu vaccines - to lessen the burden of disease.

'The reason why you see lower rates of polio, whooping cough and other diseases is because we have vaccines that have made them very rare.'

HOW CAN YOU PROTECT YOURSELF?

The CDC advises getting vaccinated against Poliovirus and West Nile Virus due to both being potential causes of AFM.

Health experts say this does not simply mean just staying up-to-date with vaccinations, but also minimizing exposure to mosquitoes.

Additionally, you can use warm water and soap to avoid getting sick and spreading germs.

'It's a one-in-million chance to get this so it's extremely unlikely your child will get this,' said Dr Acosta.

'Even if they have sudden onset of weakness, AFM is unlikely to have caused it. It's more likely to be a stroke. However, if your child develops it, bring them in and this gives them the best chance of survival.'

====== 1762 ========

ARE YOU GETTING THE MINERALS YOUR BODY NEEDS? PLAY 'FOODOKU' TO FIND OUT

Despite striving to eat a balanced diet to maintain good health, there are some nutrients — minerals in particular — that many of us struggle to get enough of.

According to the latest National Diet and Nutrition Survey released by the Government, there are important minerals where our average intakes are well below the recommended levels: iron, zinc, magnesium (all forms of metal) and selenium.

This is partly due to the fact that they tend to be less widely distributed in foods than many other nutrients, or are found in only a few foods in high amounts.

Take selenium, for instance — an antioxidant that protects cells from damage that can lead to infection and inflammation. It is usually found in soil and plants such as wheat, rice, vegetables and maize — but levels are lower in European-grown crops than North American ones due to differences in the soil types.

Getting enough? According to the latest National Diet and Nutrition Survey, there are minerals where our average intakes are well below healthy: iron, zinc, magnesium and selenium

Selenium intake averages 44 micrograms (mcg) a day in British women, and 50mcg in men, compared with the recommended amount of 55mcg.

It’s a similar story with zinc, found in lean meats, seafood and hard cheeses. The mineral plays a role in many aspects of health including fertility and cognitive function, yet women get only 7.6 milligrams (mg) a day, while men get 9.7mg. The recommended amount is 10mg.

Low intakes of iron, a good source of which is green leafy vegetables, and magnesium are also common, and could contribute to severe fatigue.

With iron in particular — needed to make the red blood cells that carry oxygen around the body — it’s women who fare worse as they lose a little of the mineral with every monthly period. The recommended daily amount is 14mg, yet the average intake is only 9.3mg a day.

With magnesium, which is needed for energy release and a healthy nervous system, the average daily intake for adults is 270mg, yet the suggested amount is 375mg.

While magnesium is found in many foods, there are no standout sources to make it easy to get enough.

Our Sudoku-inspired grids offer eight ways of combining foods to get roughly the right amounts of these minerals, based on nutrient reference values (NRV). Look at each row, column and diagonal line for your daily amount.

Iron: This is necessary for the transport of oxygen (via hemoglobin in red blood cells) and for oxidation by cells (via cytochrome)

Cashews

All nuts contain iron, but cashews are the richest in it (hazelnuts and almonds are good, too — six handfuls will provide this amount of iron). Three handfuls of cashews also gives a quarter of the daily recommendation of blood pressure-lowering potassium, and 40 per cent of the daily zinc requirement.

Beans

The 415g can of beans supplies around 40 per cent of your daily iron needs, as well as half of your daily fibre needs (and more if you serve on wholemeal bread). With all non-meat sources of iron, eat with a source of vitamin C to improve its absorption. Eat beans with a big handful of watercress — which also counts as one of your five-a-day.

Boiled kale

Gram for gram, boiled kale has 80 per cent of the amount of iron in roast beef. It also has a third of your daily calcium needs for healthy bones, plus 85 per cent of your daily folate, needed for healthy blood. It is packed with vitamin C to assist with iron absorption. This portion counts as two of your five-a-day.

Crispy duck

For a clue to how much iron is in meat or poultry, remember: the redder or deeper the colour, the higher the iron content. A 125g serving (the standard portion size you’d get in a takeaway or supermarket) of crispy duck also supplies half your daily selenium needs. Serve with spring onions to add vitamin C and fibre.

Red wine

Red wine is a decent source of iron and polyphenols, thought to help keep arteries flexible. The downside? Polyphenols also interfere with iron absorption, so don’t rely on wine as a major source. Two 250ml glasses provide a good amount of iron but six units of alcohol.

Lentils

Lentils, like most pulses, are good sources of iron, with a third of your daily needs in 200g of red lentils. This serving also provides around 30 per cent of your daily fibre intake, which will help feed good gut bacteria, as well as maintain a healthy bowel.

Weetabix

Like many cereals (apart from organic), Weetabix is fortified with iron, but also contains some from the wholegrain wheat. Serving it with 150ml milk will add more than a fifth of your daily intake of bone-building calcium, and a vitamin C-rich glass of orange juice will help iron absorption.

Figs

Drying figs concentrates their mineral content and six figs supply a third of your daily iron needs and around a fifth of your calcium requirements. They only have traces of vitamin C, so serve them with a good source, such as berries, to optimise iron absorption. This also counts as one of your five-a-day.

Liquorice Allsorts

It’s the molasses in liquorice that contains iron — and this portion (roughly a third of a 190g bag of Bassetts Liquorice Allsorts) also provides more than a third of your daily manganese, needed for healthy bones and joints. But it exceeds your daily limit of ‘added’ sugars (30g).

Fact: Zinc contributes to the normal function of the immune system and good fertility, plus the maintenance of good vision and cognitive function

Cheese on Toast

Cheese and wholegrains contain zinc, so a 75g chunk of cheese on wholemeal toast nets just over 40 per cent of your daily zinc intake (plus three-quarters of your calcium and half your protein needs). It’s also 80 per cent of your saturated fat limit — though recent research suggests saturated fat from dairy may not be linked to heart disease.

Tahini

Sesame seeds — from which tahini paste is made — are a good source of minerals generally. In three tablespoons, used as a spread or dip, you’ll get 30 per cent of your daily zinc needs, nearly half of your daily calcium requirements, and some magnesium and iron.

Shepherd's Pie

Lamb is a good red meat source of zinc — in a typical ready-meal shepherd’s pie you will get 40 per cent of your daily needs. Potatoes aren’t a rich source, but do add a little zinc in this dish, too — probably about an eighth of the total in the meal.

Bombay Mix

The nuts, pulses and gram flour noodles all contribute to the zinc in this snack — it supplies a quarter of your daily iron, too. But a 90g serving (three handfuls) supplies more than 400 calories and up to 2g salt (a third of your daily limit), so keep this snack for an occasional treat only.

Orkney Crab Meat

Crab is a great source of zinc, and this pot — ideal stirred through a serving of pasta, or as a starter — provides more than 60 per cent of your daily requirements, and 28 per cent of your daily calcium needs. Dark meat is a richer zinc source than white (the pot contains a mix).

Ham and pineapple pizza

The ham, pizza base and mozzarella add to the zinc in this pizza. A half serving will provide nearly a third of your daily requirement. However, it contains 337 calories and just over a quarter of your daily saturated fat limit, so try to stop at half.

Liquorice Allsorts

It’s the molasses in liquorice that contains iron — and this portion (roughly a third of a 190g bag of Bassetts Liquorice Allsorts) also provides more than a third of your daily manganese, needed for healthy bones and joints. But it exceeds your daily limit of ‘added’ sugars (30g).

Pitted Prunes

Fruit generally isn’t a good source of zinc, but dried fruit, with a lower concentration of water, is better as the minerals are more concentrated. This can will provide nearly 30 per cent of your daily needs and more than 40 per cent of your daily iron intake. Prunes contain sorbitol, so are a gentle laxative.

Oyster

Fruit generally isn’t a good source of zinc, but dried fruit, with a lower concentration of water, is better as the minerals are more concentrated. This can will provide nearly 30 per cent of your daily needs and more than 40 per cent of your daily iron intake. Prunes contain sorbitol, so are a gentle laxative.

Dry roasted peanuts

This 100g serving has a third of your daily zinc amount, along with half your magnesium and a seventh of your iron needs. Cut the quantity if you’re watching your weight — this contains more than 600 calories and nearly a quarter of your salt limit.

Selenium: This is a mineral needed in trace amounts for optimal health and is a key nutrient for a robust immune system and a youthful appearance

White rice

Easy-cook white rice has undergone a pre-steaming process to keep it fluffier when you cook it at home. Surprisingly it has more selenium, and other nutrients such as vitamins B1 (for energy release) and B3 (for digestion), than brown rice, although it contains less fibre.

Roast pork

Pork is among those meats richest in selenium. This portion provides a third of your daily requirement, as well as more than half of your vitamin B1 needs, key for energy release. Serve with lots of vegetables for fibre and other vitamins.

Fried eggs

Always eat the yolk, as this is where the selenium, vitamins and minerals are concentrated. Two small eggs also supply nearly all your daily vitamin B12 and a quarter of your folate (both needed for healthy blood). Poached and boiled eggs have similar nutrients but less fat.

Fish fingers

Seafood as a whole tends to contain decent amounts of selenium. You’ll even get it in fish fingers, made with either cod or pollock. Have them between two slices of higher fibre (50:50) white bread and you’ll add another 6mcg selenium — more than 10 per cent of your daily needs.

Brazil nuts

Brazil nuts are a top source of selenium, but lamb and ox kidneys come a close second. Around three Brazil nuts provide 40 per cent of your daily requirement. This portion also gives you 12 percent of your magnesium needs, for energy release and a healthy nervous system.

Mushrooms

Fruit and vegetables provide little selenium, but mushrooms are an exception, with as much as many types of meat and fish. Two provide more than a third of the daily selenium intake, along with nearly a quarter of your daily folate needs, required for healthy blood.

Chicken burgers

Chicken is a reasonable source of selenium — these are 85 per cent chicken. Chicken thigh has more selenium than breast (these are made with both) — you’d get around 21mcg selenium (nearly 40 per cent of the daily intake) in a 150g chicken thigh.

Chapatis

Traditional chapati flour (from wholewheat grains) is rich in selenium. Two brown chapatis, either homemade (without yeast) or from a takeaway, can supply a third of your daily selenium, 17 per cent of your iron needs and 15 per cent of your fibre requirements.

John West salad

The selenium comes from the salmon (it’s made with 18 per cent salmon) and the bulgur wheat base. This also provides a quarter of your daily fibre needs and counts as one of your five-a-day, but contains 2.2g of salt, more than a third of your daily limit.

Did you know? Magnesium is a mineral that is important for normal bone structure in the body

Flax seeds

Flaxseeds are one of the richest nut and seed sources of magnesium and an easy way to sneak more of the mineral into your diet — try mixing it into porridge or sprinkling it over yoghurt. Flaxseed also provides calcium, iron, magnesium and heart-healthy omega-3 fats.

Dark chocolate

The darker the chocolate, the more magnesium it has, as the mineral is contained in the cocoa beans. A six-square, or 60g serving, is a big helping, though it also has 350 calories and two teaspoons of sugar — more than a quarter of your daily limit — so don’t have it too often.

Potatoes

Potatoes provide modest levels of magnesium, but can be fairly big contributors as they are eaten in big portions. One baked potato has around 60mg or 16 per cent of your daily magnesium — the rest here comes from the tuna. Most fish are a reasonable source.

Mushrooms

Fruit and vegetables provide little selenium, but mushrooms are an exception, with as much as many types of meat and fish. Two provide more than a third of the daily selenium intake, along with nearly a quarter of your daily folate needs, required for healthy blood.

Spinach

Baby spinach is a good source of magnesium (levels fall as the leaves get more mature). Three boiled tablespoons provide more than a third of your daily requirement, as well as 22 per cent of your iron needs. Spinach is one of the best sources of iron, comparable to beef.

Bran

The outside layer of wheat, known as bran, is one of the richest sources of magnesium, so All-Bran — made with this part — is a good source. A bowl with milk contains a fifth of your daily calcium and more than half of your fibre needs, but with two-and-a-half teaspoons of sugar.

Peanut butter

Here, just less than half the magnesium comes from the peanut butter — the rest comes from the toast. With some berries, it’s a healthy breakfast of around 400 calories. It supplies around a quarter of your daily fibre needs, too.

Curry

Up to half the magnesium in a curry can come from spices — there’s a lot in curry powder, garam masala and cumin seeds. The rest is from the chicken, tomatoes and onions — which means that this meal provides more than a third of your daily magnesium requirements.

Pulses

All pulses contain some magnesium, but edamame beans are very rich in the mineral. A two-handful portion supplies around a third of your daily magnesium and a third of your fibre needs, but beware, these are roasted in oil and contain 285 calories.

====== 1763 ========

RISE IN WOMEN DYING FROM ALCOHOL: DEATHS ROSE 67% AMONG FEMALES IN 10 YEARS, STUDY FINDS

Alcohol deaths in America have soared in the past 10 years - particularly among women, a new report reveals.

The rate of alcohol-related deaths rocketed 35 percent between 2007 and 2017.

It shot up 67 percent for women alone.

The data from the University of Washington, first reported by USA Today, comes a year after federal data showed a sharp rise in binge-drinking among women and elderly people.

However, the researchers say that, since so much attention has been consumed by the devastating toll of opioids on the US, the rise in alcohol fatalities has swelled under the radar, out of the spotlight of concern.

Researchers at the University of Washington say so much attention has been consumed by the devastating toll of opioids on the US that the rise in alcohol fatalities has been ignored

'The story is that no one has noticed this,' says Max Griswold of the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME), set up at the University of Washington by Bill and Melinda Gates, told USA Today.

'It hasn't really been researched before.'

The IHME data was part of a far-reaching report looking at death rates, causes of death, birth rates, fertility and more on a global scale.

This study zoomed in on US figures, showing a particularly concerning trend among women.

As with many sharp shifts in lifestyle habits, it's difficult to identify one driving factor, but with something as widely acceptable - encouraged, even - as alcohol, it's more plain.

Once, alcohol was taboo for women. Now, that's not the case - but biology hasn't changed, and (generally) alcohol can still pack a bigger punch for a woman's body than a man's.

'It's gone from being taboo for women to drink at all to being expected in some settings, professional groups - even to drink to intoxication,' Deidra Roach, MD, medical project officer of the NIAAA Division of Treatment and Recovery Research, told WebMd.

But, she added: 'Women are generally smaller than men and have less total body water and more total body fat. Blood alcohol level rises more quickly and stay elevated longer in women, so the harmful effects of alcohol, even if a man and woman drink same amount, will show up sooner in the women.'

Alcohol can cause deaths in many ways. It can cause liver disease, cancer, accidents, life-threatening digestive issues.

According to the new IHME report, alcohol death rates are highest in Washington, DC, Georgia and Albama.

The latter two are not wholly surprising - the South has historically high rates of alcohol use and abuse, smoking, obesity, and low rates of health insurance, meaning many do not have doctors advising how to live a healthier lifestyle. Poverty is higher, too, which drives up drinking rates.

But the sharpest rises in alcohol deaths have been seen in other parts of the country, particularly the North and North West.

Just last week the task force that advises US doctors on standards strengthened its advice on alcohol screening: they said doctors should screen all patients for unhealthy alcohol consumption, and to counsel those that seem to have a problem.

'In the United States, 1 in 6 patients reports having discussed alcohol with their physician; rates in Europe are similarly low,' Angela Bazzi and Dr Richard Saitz, of Boston University School of Public Health, wrote in an editorial for JAMA which accompanied the new guidelines.

They add that there is scores of evidence showing a conversation with a doctor can have a significant impact on a person's habits.

In terms of how to intervene, the task force recommended scheduling a few counseling sessions, amounting to a total of less than two hours. They said the counseling could be done in person, or even online.

'The societal context must change,' Bazzi and Staitz wrote.

====== 1764 ========

EMOTIONAL ABUSE LINKED TO WORSE MENOPAUSE SYMPTOMS

Menopause symptoms may be even more severe for women who have suffered abuse at the hands of their partner.

A new study of 2,000 women found emotional abuse increased the odds of sleeplessness, hypertension and vaginal issues by 60 percent.

Those who'd been physically abused were 50 percent more likely to suffer night sweats, the study found.

Women with symptoms of PTSD after suffering abuse had triple the risk of suffering the most debilitating symptoms that often accompany the final stage of a woman's fertility journey.

The findings from UC San Francisco come just months after a study by Pitt School of Medicine found sexual assault and inter-partner violence had a life-long impact on women's health, doubling a woman's risk of hypertension and anxiety.

A new diverse study in San Francisco of 2,000 women from various backgrounds found both emotional and physical abuse increased the odds of women suffering severe menopause symptoms (file image)

'Traditionally, menopause symptoms have been largely attributed to biological and hormonal changes, as well as negative mood symptoms, health-risk behaviors, cardio-metabolic risk factors and chronic health conditions that occur at a higher rate during and after menopause,' said first author Carolyn Gibson, PhD, a clinical research psychologist affiliated with the UCSF Department of Psychiatry.

'Stress related to emotional abuse and other traumatic exposures may influence the hormonal and physiological changes of menopause and aging, affecting biological susceptibility as well as the subjective experience of these symptoms,' she said.

Menopause symptoms vary from woman to woman, and while researchers have spent years trying to predict who is more likely to suffer what, it's still largely a mystery.

When a woman comes to the end of reproductive age, many experience psychological and physical symptoms, but for some it can be milder than others. For some, it starts in their mid-40s, others not until their mid-50s. Some endure menopause for a year or two, and for others it takes a decade.

It's near impossible to predict what any given woman can expect from that stage.

Some say women who suffer painful periods (also an elusive phenomenon with no clear cause) may be more likely to suffer during menopause, but studies and experience show that's not always the case.

Some say the number of children you have, and when you have them, is a factor - but again, women with plenty of children cannot be guaranteed one kind of experience, vice versa for women with few or no children.

As with most things in women's health, it's complicated and multifactoral and under-researched. It could be race, it could be stress, it could be diet, it could be hormones, it could be genetics.

This study, a review of data collected by the Kaiser Permanente Northern California health care system between 2008 and 2012, was an attempt to quantify how one factor - abuse - could be one predictor. It also draws more attention to abuse - whether it's a physical blow or chiding - as a public health issue.

Kaiser Permanente Northern California serves about 30 percent of the region's population. The study enrolled 2,000 women of diverse backgrounds.

The average age was 61, 77 percent of them were postmenopausal, most were college-educated (81 percent), and most were overweight or obese (74 percent). Just over a third of the women were white (39 percent), 21 percent were black, 20 percent were Hispanic, and 19 percent were Asian.

A fifth of the women surveyed (21 percent, or: 423 of them) said that they had been emotionally abused by their former or current partner.

This was defined as 'made fun of, severely criticized, told you were a stupid or worthless person, or threatened with harm to yourself, your possessions or your pets.'

Almost a quarter (23 percent, or: 450 of them) reported PTSD symptoms. Sixteen percent of them (316) said they'd suffered domestic violence and 19 percent (382) had experienced sexual assault.

Those women had much higher odds of enduring severe symptoms during their menopause.

One issue with the research is that the cohort was not designed to explore menopause symptoms and abuse: it was a study of urinary incontinence.

However, experts say the data did present a clear correlation that is valid.

Above all, Dr Gibson has been praised for calling attention to the issue.

Writing in an editorial published alongside the study in JAMA today, Rebecca C. Thurston, PhD - author of the recent study that found sexual assault led to life-long health effects - hailed the study for shining a light on under-studied factors.

Writing with Elizabeth Miller, MD, PhD, Dr Thurston said this study is a stepping stone towards broadening our understanding of what influences menopause symptoms - and how even non-physical violence can have a deep-rooted impact that triggers physical symptoms years later.

'A notable strength of the study is the examination of both emotional and physical IPV; emotional IPV is often overlooked despite its strong adverse effect,' they wrote.

'Clinicians should be aware of the prevalence of IPV and sexual assault and their roles in educating patients and making resources available,' they added.

'Ongoing awareness of the ways that such violence affects health (including menopausal symptoms), considering such violence in their differential diagnoses, and connecting survivors to available resources are important, but are likely inadequate without additional measures.'

They warn that states vary in their rules on when and how clinicians can report abuse, and urge doctors that, since abuse can have medical consequences, they should feel empowered to take a more proactive role.

====== 1765 ========

HAVE NO MORE THAN ONE ALCOHOLIC DRINK A DAY TO AVOID BOOZE-RELATED DISEASES, HEALTH OFFICIAL CLAIMS

People should drink no more than one alcoholic drink a day to avoid booze-related diseases, health official claims.

Professor Jurgen Rehm, adviser to the World Health Organization, stresses there is no safe level of alcohol consumption but one drink is considered 'low risk'.

He argued 29 per cent of all alcohol-attributable deaths in the EU are from cancers.

Professor Rehm believes minimum unit pricing (MUP) for alcohol is serious 'ammunition' against related diseases, and should be introduced throughout the UK and Europe.

People should drink no more than one alcoholic drink, health official claims (stock)

Professor Rehm stressed people should consume no more than one unit of alcohol a day and hit out at past Government guidelines that suggested there is a level of 'safe' drinking.

'There is no safe drinking. Low-risk [drinking] in the UK would be one drink a day,' he said.

Responding to his comments, Dr Eric Carlin, director of Scottish Health Action on Alcohol Problems (SHAAP), said: 'SHAAP strongly support the UK CMOs' guidance which is no more than 14 units per week, before health is likely to be harmed.

'However, it is true to say that no level of alcohol is risk free, especially in relation to cancer risks.'

Alcohol has been linked to the onset of seven different types of cancers, including breast, bowel and mouth.

These are thought to occur due to alcohol being converted into the toxic chemical acetaldehyde in our bodies, which can damage DNA and prevent cells from repairing themselves.

A spokesman for the Alcohol Information Partnership, a group funded by eight alcoholic beverage producers that aims to promote balanced debate about drinking, said: 'The UK has one of the lowest recommended levels of alcohol consumption at 14 units a week.

'That reduction was made relatively recently so it would be surprising and potentially confusing if the guidelines were to be changed again.

'Most people in the UK drink moderately - in fact, recent statistics show a decline in binge drinking, particularly among young people.

'Where there are problems with harmful drinking, we think targeted interventions are often much more effective than blanket measures.'

The Scottish Government policy to set a minimum price of 50p per unit of alcohol finally came into force in May after years of delays due to a legal challenge (Andrew Milligan/PA)

The Scottish Government policy to set a minimum price of 50p per unit of alcohol finally came into force in May after years of delays due to a legal challenge.

It is estimated the move could save around 392 lives in the first five years.

Scotland has a particularly bad alcohol problem, with 22 people dying from booze-specific deaths and 697 people being taken to hospital every week.

Figures presented at a joint meeting on alcohol and health in Edinburgh, led by the WHO and the Alcohol Policy Network in Europe, demonstrate the continent continues to have the highest level of alcohol consumption in the world.

Every day, around 800 people in the EU, Norway and Switzerland die from alcohol-related causes and there have been 'no significant changes' in consumption levels since 2010.

Professor Rehm, a senior director at the Institute for Mental Health Policy Research at the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health in Canada, said a drop in alcohol-related deaths in Europe from 301,000 in 2010 to 291,000 in 2016 is hardly a big success.

He also pointed to 'huge problems' with drinking among young people in Europe, particularly noting the widespread prevalence of binge-drinking.

'The big ammunition is using price policy, like taxation and things like that,' Professor Rehm said.

Asked about the likely impact of MUP in Scotland, he told reporters: 'Very clearly minimum unit pricing is going to have a significant impact.'

He pointed to the 'pretty great success' of similar pricing restrictions in countries such as Russia, saying it reduces consumption both among binge drinkers and those with an alcohol dependency.

Drink-related accidents, injuries, violence and public disorder will also go down with increases of minimum pricing, he added.

Asked whether he would like to see every country in Europe introduce that policy, he said: 'Obviously from a public health perspective, yes, we would like not only minimum pricing policies, we would like minimum pricing policies which are relatively high.

'Price in Europe has been the least used policy measure of all the policy measures.'

Echoing that sentiment for the rest of the UK, he claimed the country paints a 'unique picture' when it comes to alcohol, noting problems with binge drinking and higher levels of consumption among women.

'What should play a role here would be minimum pricing in all parts of the UK,' he argued.

Dr Joao Breda, head of the WHO European Office for Prevention and Control of Noncommunicable Diseases, said MUP is a policy that 'protects the vulnerable'.

'Issues like using price, they are very strong and very important ammunition that should be considered by all countries and it's one of the measures that countries use less,' he said.

Professor Rehm suggested bars and restaurants should change the serving sizes of alcohol and reduce the booze content of drinks.

He added tests have shown people cannot tell the difference between a beer with 5 per cent alcohol and one of 3.5 per cent.

This comes after research released earlier this year suggested alcohol sales in England would fall by 38 per cent from £35 billion to £22 billion a year if everyone kept to the recommended 14 units a week.

A quarter of drinkers fail to stick to the Government's guidance of no more than 14 units a week, a study found today.

====== 1766 ========

1 IN 5 ARMY GENERALS ARE UNFIT TO DEPLOY: SKIPPING ANNUAL CHECK-UPS IS TO BLAME FOR MANY

One in five US Army generals wasn't 'medically ready' to fight in 2016 - for many, simply because they failed to get annual physical and dental check-ups, data obtained by USA Today has revealed.

Before deployment, every member of the American military must meet minimum fitness requirements.

That includes having a clean bill of physical and dental health - but high level servicemen and women can't very well have that if they haven't been to a doctor or dentist in over a year.

After launching a broader misconduct investigation in 2014, the Army discovered that not only were some of its highest-ranking members guilty of violations like sexual misconduct - they also don't like the dentist very much.

One in five Army generals were not 'medically fit' to serve in 2016 - and many failed simply for skipping annual exams and blood work, USA Today's investigation found

Physical fitness is a central qualification for members of the military, whose ultimate role is to fight to defend the country.

And the Army doesn't want any surprises while its members are deployed in potentially dangerous environments, so it needs to be acutely aware of any potential health problems facing everyone from cadets all the way up to generals.

But accountability has recently been an issue in the Army in recent years.

In 2014, an internal investigation was launched into service men and women, prompted in part by a spate of scandals in the highest ranks.

USA Today obtained the results of this investigation in 2017, and has since received updated (though heavily redacted) information revealing that one in five generals couldn't technically be deployed because they are 'medically unfit.'

This could mean that they failed the physical fitness test (a point of pride for service members) or that they failed to produce up-to-date medical records.

It doesn't matter which it is. Every box on the checklist has to be ticked, or the Army will not take the risk of sending a soldier (or officer) into battle.

Poor health is a mounting challenge for the US military.

As of December 2017, nearly 75 percent of 17- to 24-year-old Americans were unfit to serve, according to Pentagon data.

The most common reason - even among this youngest age group - was health problems, which disqualify about a third of potential volunteer servicemen and women.

In 2009, a group of generals and admirals started Mission:Readiness, a nonprofit dedicated to confronting the youth issues that could leave the US military short-changed.

Ironically, many generals themselves would fall into that same category of unreadiness, according to the 2017 report - documenting 2016 readiness - that USA Today obtained.

Army spokesperson, Brig Gen Omar Jones, told USA Today that this problem has since been addressed, and that the Army has made sure its top leaders show up to their teeth cleanings, blood drawings and annual check-ups.

'The Army's top priority is readiness and soldiers are expected to be world-wide deployable to ensure our Army is ready to fight today and in the future,' said Jones.

Daily Mail Online sent a request for comment to another Army spokesperson, but had not received a reply at time of publication.

====== 1767 ========

HOW SAYING THANK YOU CAN HELP TO EASE DEPRESSION

One of the most important lessons in good parenting is teaching your child to say thank you. And recent research suggests we should all be making an effort to do it, as it could work wonders for our health.

Scientists have discovered that ‘gratitude therapy’ — deliberately expressing thanks, for instance to parents, teachers or friends for their support — has a powerful impact on aspects of both mental and physical health.

Simply writing a thank-you letter appears to have such a strong impact on psychological wellbeing, it has a knock-on effect on physical health. Benefits include combating depression, easing pain and improving heart health.

The latest study looked at whether gratitude therapy could be used to get teenagers to ditch junk food and eat more healthily.

Alternative therapy: Simply writing a thank-you letter appears to have such a strong impact on psychological wellbeing, experts believe

Scientists at the University of California, Riverside, in the U.S., asked around 1,000 14 and 15-year-olds to detail their daily diet and talk about how they would like to improve it to protect their health.

None was told to make changes to their eating patterns as part of the study.

The researchers then got the students to spend at least eight minutes writing a thank-you letter, once a week for four weeks, to someone in their life who had been strong and supportive — for example, expressing gratitude to parents for their love, friends who had helped them through a relationship break-up or a teacher who’d inspired them.

After four weeks, the researchers compared their eating habits with another group who had only been told to list their daily activities.

The results, published in the Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, showed that those expressing gratitude were more likely to switch to healthier food — eating more fruit and vegetables and having fewer sugary drinks — during the experiment, while those simply recording what they did each day made no changes.

Although the effects wore off once they stopped writing the letters, and they reverted to eating more junk food, the findings suggest that ‘enforced gratitude’ can have a powerful effect.

So, how does it work? The expert consensus is that expressing gratitude shifts the focus from improving health for our own sakes and makes it a way of ‘repaying’ others for their support — even when that support has nothing to do with our wellbeing.

How does it work? The expert consensus is that expressing gratitude shifts the focus from improving health for our own sakes and makes it a way of ‘repaying’ others for their support

Many people struggle with health initiatives that require self-motivation to make big lifestyle changes. However, those changes become easier if they are seen as a way of thanking others.

So, for example, in the teenage diet trial, although both groups talked about the benefits of eating more healthily, only those writing the thank-you letters made changes to their diet, because doing so reminded them of how lucky they were and that inspired them to make changes. Megan Fritz, the researcher who carried out the study, explains: ‘We think grateful feelings may spur people towards improving themselves through feeling close to — and supported by — others.

‘They feel inspired to be better and indebted enough to want to prove themselves deserving.’

Gratitude therapy has also been shown to reduce pain and help women with breast cancer ease their anxieties. It can help with depression, too, as a 2016 study at Indiana University in the U.S. found. Researchers compared depressed patients who regularly penned thank-you letters over three months with those who didn’t. Using MRI scans, they found increased activity levels in a part of the brain that’s often less active with depression — the medial prefrontal cortex, which helps control memory, sleep and decision-making — among those writing the letters.

But it does far more than provide a psychological pick-me-up, according to a 2016 study by the University of California, San Diego. Scientists studied 70 patients in their 60s with heart failure, where the heart is unable to pump blood efficiently around the body. Half were told to take their medication and write a weekly ‘gratitude journal’ for eight weeks; the rest stuck to medication alone.

The results, published in the journal Psychosomatic Medicine, revealed those keeping the journal had reduced inflammation in the blood vessels and increased heart rate variability, suggesting their hearts were in better shape.

Psychologist Jessica Chivers, from St Albans, Hertfordshire, says handwritten thank-you letters are likely to give the maximum benefit. Writing by hand slows the process of expressing gratitude — giving more time for consideration of the content — and puts the emphasis on getting it right first time, as it’s harder to correct than on a computer or smartphone.

This helps reinforce the psychological — and physical — effects of being thankful. She adds: ‘It means you have to be more deliberate and thoughtful. The process of expressing gratitude could be as important as the message itself.’

====== 1768 ========

THE CANCER THAT MEANS EVEN TWO WEEKS’ WAIT FOR SURGERY WRECKS A PATIENT’S CHANCES

Shocked: Frances Dewar, 47, was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer earlier this year

Erika Vincent and Frances Dewar have many things in common. Both busy, working mothers with full, active lives, neither had much cause to trouble their doctors.

Then, earlier this year, they were diagnosed with pancreatic cancer within weeks of one another. For both, it was shattering news.

‘I was dumbfounded. I’d always been fit as a fiddle,’ says Erika, 55, from Buckinghamshire, who used to work as an IT consultant.

‘Even while I was having tests to find out what was wrong, I seemed fairly healthy. I never expected to be told it was cancer.’

For Frances, 47, a violinist with the BBC Symphony Orchestra, the diagnosis was ‘hugely unsettling’.

‘I did some Googling — that was a bad idea, because the statistics scare the life out of you,’ she says.

But this is where the similarity in the experience of the two women ends.

For while Frances was having surgery within three weeks of doctors spotting the tumour, delays in Erika’s treatment meant that not only was her tumour inoperable, but the cancer had spread to her liver.

The mother of two was told she had just four months to live.

The contrast in their two stories highlights the need for a shift in the approach to treating the disease — the key, say experts, is speed and more patients being put forward for surgery, which only 10 per cent of patients currently receive.

Rates of pancreatic cancer have risen by 15 per cent since the Nineties. It is now the UK’s fifth biggest cancer killer, accounting for one in 20 cancer deaths. Only 1 per cent of people survive the disease for ten years or longer.

‘Pancreatic cancer is a study in nihilism,’ says Keith Roberts, a consultant pancreatic surgeon at University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust. ‘Even among doctors, there can be an attitude that there is little that can be done treatment-wise.

‘But it’s not true — we are improving outcomes all the time and survival is possible.’

Strong: Delays in Erika Vincent’s treatment meant that not only was the 55-year-old's tumour inoperable, but the cancer had spread to her liver - meaning she had just four months to live

The only curative treatment is surgery to remove the tumour and part or all of the pancreas. If surgery isn’t possible, chemotherapy can sometimes be given to control the cancer’s growth.

But seven out of ten people diagnosed with pancreatic cancer receive no active treatment.

‘There is a perception that it’s not worth putting people through a risky operation when they’re likely to die,’ says Mr Roberts.

‘But data published this year shows that with surgery and stronger chemotherapy drugs, as many as 50 per cent of patients could survive more than five years. Without chemotherapy, that figure is 8 per cent.’

The charity Pancreatic Cancer UK is calling for all patients with the disease to be treated within 20 days of diagnosis, a target it wants reached by 2024. At present, the guideline for commencing treatment is within 62 days — however, as pancreatic cancer progresses rapidly, the charity argues this is too long.

The thinking is that if patients began treatment sooner, more would be eligible for surgery.

Unfortunately, most cases are diagnosed at a late stage, as pancreatic cancer can have almost no symptoms in the earlier stages. Even as the tumour progresses, symptoms such as indigestion, back pain, nausea and difficulty swallowing are often vague.

Fortunate: A month on from her diagnosis, Frances was recuperating from a nine-hour operation known as the Whipple procedure, in which the top of the pancreas, part of the small intestine, the gallbladder and the bile duct are removed

‘Pancreatic cancer also grows faster than other cancers,’ adds Mr Roberts. A tumour that would have been operable at diagnosis can become inoperable in a matter of weeks.

‘The problem with the pancreas is that it wraps around the blood vessels to the liver and bowel, making surgery dangerous. Surgeons can be reluctant to take the risk.’

For Erika, the first sign that something was wrong was ‘a bit of indigestion’. ‘I was struggling to eat, feeling sick and as though I’d swallowed a large stone,’ she recalls. As it persisted for weeks, she went to her GP, but blood tests and ultrasound scans revealed nothing.

‘By now, the weight was dropping off me,’ says Erika. ‘I asked for a private referral to a gastric specialist — it had been about a month since I first saw the GP.’

When I finally got to see the oncologist, the Macmillan cancer nurse was there — that was when it really hit home how serious it was. That was when they gave me my prognosis: four to six months Erika Vincent

The specialist ordered a CT scan. A week later, he broke the news that there was a tumour at the top of Erika’s pancreas.

But it would be nearly two months before Erika began treatment in May — a wait that was ‘psychological torture’.

‘It was delayed by many things, including my referrals being lost, people going on holiday and my cancer treatment being marked as “routine”,’ she says.

‘When I finally got to see the oncologist, the Macmillan cancer nurse was there — that was when it really hit home how serious it was. That was when they gave me my prognosis: four to six months.

‘I asked what treatment I could have and they mentioned chemotherapy, but followed it up with: “But why would you want to put yourself through it?” I felt like they were saying: “Go home and die.”

Erika, who is married to Jerry, an IT consultant, and has two sons, aged 19 and 20, adds: ‘I hadn’t even told my children and they were telling me that I could be dead before my son got his A-level results.

‘I can’t help thinking if they’d seen me sooner, it might have been different.’

By comparison, a month on from her diagnosis, Frances was recuperating from a nine-hour operation known as the Whipple procedure, in which the top of the pancreas, part of the small intestine, the gallbladder and the bile duct are removed.

Fighting: Erika convinced her doctors to start chemotherapy and has so far defied the odds

‘It all happened so quickly,’ says Frances, who lives in London with her daughters, Mia, 12, and Rosa, nine, as well as her partner and his two daughters.

‘From diagnosis to surgery took about three weeks, so I didn’t have the time really to absorb the full implications.’ Frances’s tumour was stage three, meaning the cancer had spread outside the pancreas, but not yet to other areas of the body (Erika’s is stage four, meaning it has spread to other organs).

Frances was lucky — many surgeons won’t operate at this stage, says Mr Roberts, and a couple of weeks longer might have meant it was impossible.

‘The outlook still isn’t great — I won’t make it to 60 — but at least there are positives,’ says Frances. ‘I was diagnosed and treated quickly.’ She is now in the middle of six rounds of chemotherapy.

‘I’m playing the violin again and we’re trying to get on,’ she adds. ‘The girls keep me going.’

To improve outcomes, experts want doctors to ‘fast-track’ patients for surgery.

‘The approach in our hospital is that as long as a patient is walking around, looking after themselves and satisfies the anaesthetist, we will operate,’ says Mr Roberts.

Many patients with pancreatic cancer have a stent fitted to open the bile duct before the main surgery, to alleviate jaundice.

However, Mr Roberts claims this is not always necessary, can cause complications, such as infection, and delays treatment of the cancer.

A small study of patients who did not have a stent, published last year in the journal HPB, found that this ‘fast-track’ approach improved the chances of removing the tumour.

‘When we operate quickly, in two to three weeks and without fitting a stent, in 95 per cent of cases we’re able to remove the tumour, compared with about 75 per cent of cases on the old pathway,’ says Mr Roberts.

‘If every hospital adopted this fast-track surgery, it would be a massive step.’

Erika convinced her doctors to start her on chemotherapy and has so far defied the odds.

A scan last month revealed that the tumours have shrunk and she’s also considering a type of experimental surgery called NanoKnife, privately.

‘My first milestone was my youngest’s exams and I made it that far,’ she says. ‘It’s my other son’s 21st just after Christmas, so that’s my new target.

‘I’m not a stat. And, unlike my doctors, I’m not prepared just to give up.’

pancreaticcancer.org.uk/demandfastertreatment

====== 1769 ========

PREGNANT WOMEN EXPOSED TO POLLUTION ARE MORE LIKELY TO HAVE AN AUTISTIC CHILD, STUDY CLAIMS

Children whose mothers lived in polluted cities during pregnancy may be more likely to develop autism, a new study suggests.

A study of more than 132,000 Canadian children under five found that those exposed to higher levels of air pollution were more prone to being on the autism spectrum.

We are still at a loss as to what exactly causes autism, but the new research joins a growing body of work that implicates fine, toxic particles from air pollution.

To date, the new study, conducted by Simon Fraser University in British Columbia is among the largest to link pollution and autism, and found 'clear evidence' that a child's autism risks increase with every trimester in the womb around pollution.

Women who were exposed to air pollution from cars and trucks during pregnancy are more likely to have children with autism, a new study suggests

It compared rates of the disorder with the amount of traffic fumes that would have been circulating around homes while their mothers were expecting.

One of the key chemicals the research team looked at was nitric oxide.

Nitric oxide is produced when fuel is burned. Exhaust from cars and trucks is the primary source of the toxic substance, which is particularly concentrated in cities and along highways.

In boys, the risk of autism rose by nine percent for every 10.7 parts per billion (ppb) increase in nitric oxide (NO) in their environments.

There was no such risk association found for girls, though this was unsurprising, as autism is four times more common among boys, so girls would have made a up a relatively small proportion of the sample.

Simon Fraser University epidemiologist and lead study author, Lief Pagalan, said: 'These findings suggest reducing exposure to [nitric oxide] for pregnant women may be associated with a reduction in autism spectrum disorder incidence.'

Around one in 100 children develops autism but symptoms do not usually become apparent until the second year of life.

Autism spectrum disorder is a complex condition. It often causes children to struggle to communicate and form relationships.

For some, being on the spetrum is more a difference than a detriment, while for others it can be debilitating, making every day tasks and interactions unbearable.

But without knowing what causes some to develop the disorder, we don't know how to treat or prevent autism beyond therapies to help those on the spectrum cope.

Scientists believe it arises from both environmental and genetic factors, and one study, published six years ago, suggested high levels can triple the risk.

Pagalan and his colleagues analyzed all births in Vancouver from 2004 to 2009.

Of those children, 1,307 (one percent) were on the autism spectrum.

When they compared which children were autistic to the levels of pollution their mothers would have encountered during pregnancy, the team found nitric oxide (NO) - an 'indicator of traffic-related pollution' - was a significant factor in the cases of autism.

What's more, the study, published in JAMA Pediatrics, was carried out in an area with relatively low levels of air pollution, said the researchers.

It is one of the largest population-based studies of prenatal exposures to air pollution and the subsequent development of autism ever carried out.

The researchers, also looked at levels of two other pollutants PM2.5s - fine particulate matter made up of dust and soot - and NO2 (nitrogen dioxide), but these did not appear to be significantly associated with autism.

But Paglan said the NO findings were well-worth attention, though.

'While the odds ration was small, a small increase in relative risk for high prevalence exposures can result in a large burden of disease,' he said.

Pagalan said: 'Although NO is not a regulated air pollutant, we included it as an indicator of traffic-associated air pollution because our exposure models were capable of distinguishing between NO and NO2 as primary and secondary traffic-associated air pollutants.'

Rising levels of air pollution could shed light on increasing cases of autism around the world.

Pagalan said in the US prevalence has increased from one in 150 children in 2000 to one in 68 in 2012. A similar scenario has been identified in Canada, and about one percent of the world's population is estimated to be on the autism spectrum.

In the US, about 35 percent of the young adults who have autism have never held down a job or gotten degrees beyond high school, meaning that a growing autistic population could distress caretakers and the economy.

Though much remains unknown about this mental condition, the new study suggests that reducing pollution could also help to curb the impact of autism.

====== 1770 ========

WILL HAVING AN OPERATION WRECK MY MEMORY?

Does general anaesthetic affect your memory? In the past eight years I have had six general anaesthetics and my memory is not as good as it once was. Or is my memory loss down to old age? I am 72.

Stuart Ballard, by email.

You and many others will be reassured to hear that general anaesthetics are not a proven cause of long-term memory loss.

Although there is much debate on the subject, there is no evidence that the drugs used in anaesthesia cause damage to the tissue of the brain.

Your concern is not unusual, however. It is a universal experience that after the age of about 50, people find their memory is not as sharp as it used to be. They tend to have particular trouble remembering names and recent events, such as what they had for lunch yesterday.

There is no evidence that drugs used in anaesthesia cause damage to the tissue of the brain

It’s a common issue that people see their GP about. Like you, they often voice anxieties about anaesthetic — after all, so many people in this age group will have had surgery or will be scheduled to have an operation — or they’re worried their memory has been affected by prescribed medication.

In the background, there is the fear that dementia is on the horizon. Yet these sorts of memory difficulties can be a normal part of the ageing process: brain scans of elderly people suggest the brain shrinks with age.

It is a matter of judgment and considerable expertise for doctors to differentiate between normal ageing and a condition known as mild cognitive impairment, an intermediate state between normal function and early dementia.

The cornerstone of the evaluation is the medical consultation. This face-to-face examination gives the patient’s GP a sense of the extent of the problem and enables them to make comparisons with others of the same age.

Many people voice their anxieties about anaesthetic to their GPs

It is one reason why it is so important to be seen by a doctor who knows you and has followed you over the years.

There are also screening tests available that GPs, neurologists and psychiatrists use, for instance a questionnaire called the mini-mental state examination. This includes questions about the date and time; it also tests the patient’s ability to recall a list of words, to do mental arithmetic and to spell a word backwards.

When the result of this test is abnormal it will be followed by more detailed neuro- psychological testing. This usually involves longer tests under the care of a clinical psychologist, who will use questionnaires to determine which areas of cognitive function are affected.

The patient may also undergo a CT or magnetic resonance brain imaging scan to check for cerebrovascular disease (where there are problems with blood supply to the brain — a possible cause of dementia) and other issues.

It would be unwise of me to venture an opinion about your own situation, but from what you have told me it is worth having a conversation with your GP.

I must stress again, however, that general anaesthetic is unlikely to have been the cause.

I had my gallbladder removed a year ago and now my wife needs hers removed. Is this normal? Or could there be something else going on in both of us that we should be tested for?

Alan Daly, by email.

The gallbladder is a reservoir for storing bile — a fluid that helps with digestion — that has formed in the liver.

If it starts to malfunction (for reasons that are not fully understood), then small stones — usually made of cholesterol — can form inside it, potentially triggering symptoms such as pain in the abdomen and vague sensations such as bloating, heartburn, acidity and belching.

The diseased gallbladder can also become infected — known as acute cholecystitis.

If the gall bladder starts to malfunction then small stones can start to appear inside it

Symptoms and infection are not inevitable, but once they do start to occur then the recommended treatment is to remove the gallbladder (known as cholecystectomy).

Your body does not actually need a gallbladder, and after the operation the digestive system will adapt and function normally.Gallstone disease is common. Around 6 per cent of men and 9 per cent of women are thought to have gallstones, though only about 20 per cent of those with stones will develop symptoms.

To answer your question we need to look at the risk factors for developing gallstone disease, and there are many of these.

Age is the major risk factor (stones usually develop in middle age). Being female is a risk factor, as is being pregnant or having been pregnant in the past, because oestrogen, the female sex hormone, alters the chemistry of the bile. For the same reason, taking oral contraceptives or HRT also increases the risk.

Family history is a risk factor along with obesity, diabetes and cirrhosis (scarring of the liver) and having a sedentary lifestyle.

Given the frequency of this condition, and the numerous risk factors, the fact that both you and your wife have developed gallstones does not suggest either of you has a sinister underlying condition. Although you may lead similar lifestyles, it is basically a coincidence, and your respective risk factors will be somewhere in that long list. There is no reason to undergo any other investigations.

By the way... The men who MUST have cancer tests

When prostate specific antigen (PSA) testing was introduced some 30 years ago, doctors were pleased at last to have a means of screening men for prostate cancer.

Most don’t have symptoms until the cancer has spread, so being able to identify — and therefore treat — it early seemed like the Holy Grail had been found.

But it soon transpired that this test (which measures levels of a protein produced by the gland) was a false dawn.

It transpired that the tests for prostate cancer introduced 30 years ago were a false dawn

Studies in subsequent years have cast a shadow over it, on account of the high false positive rate — more than 20 per cent of men with a raised PSA do not have prostate cancer at all (raised levels can also be a sign of an enlarged prostate, for example).

What’s more, although a positive test in some men does indicate cancer, a proportion of those tumours are so slow growing as to never be life-threatening. This can lead to a situation in which treatment is more disabling than the cancer itself — in other words, the test has led to over-diagnosis.

Medical professionals are still divided about the effectiveness of PSA testing and the ratio of benefits versus harm.

The best summary of the evidence is that for every 1,000 men who undergo screening several times each over ten or more years, one death from prostate cancer will be avoided.

Screening must be structured to the risks of the individual and not simply a blanket edict

But that is set against the many men who will be damaged by radical prostatectomy, radiotherapy, hormone therapy and other cancer treatments, which carry the risk of urinary incontinence, erectile dysfunction, or bowel problems.

However, it now seems that the pendulum has swung too far the other way.

As many as one in ten men who request PSA screening are turned down by their GPs, the charity Prostate Cancer UK reported last week. Yet we know that about one in eight men will get prostate cancer, rising to one in four men who have a family history of the disease (such as a brother or father who had it).

These are the very men who should be screened, along with those with family history of the faulty BRCA gene and black men (all these groups have a significantly higher risk).

What all this means is that doctors and patients must bear in mind what I so often bang on about on these pages: screening must be structured to the risks of the individual and not simply a blanket edict.

Care must be taken to go through the patient’s history so that doctor and patient can decide, together, whether to screen or not. And that takes time.

WRITE TO DR SCURR

To contact Dr Scurr with a health query, write to him at Good Health, Daily Mail, 2 Derry Street, London, W8 5TT or email drmartin@dailymail.co.uk - including contact details. Dr Scurr cannot enter into personal correspondence. His replies cannot apply to individual cases and should be taken in a general context. Always consult your own GP with any health worries.

====== 1771 ========

MY GRANDSON KEEPS PULLING HIS HAIR OUT - WHAT CAN WE DO TO STOP THE TERRIBLE BALD PATCHES?

My grandson is eight years old and, for some time now, he has twiddled his hair. But now he is pulling hair out and has bald patches which look terrible.

What can we do to stop him?

Name and address withheld.

Trichotillomania is where someone pulls, twists or plucks their hair in a repetitive way, leading to patches of obvious hair loss

The condition you have described is called trichotillomania.

This is where someone pulls, twists or plucks their hair in a repetitive way, leading to traction alopecia — patches of obvious hair loss as a result of the hair being pulled under strain.

Overly tight ponytails can also cause traction alopecia.

Most children develop repetitive behaviours at some stage, perhaps because they find them comforting.

Typically these habits, such as thumb-sucking or nail-biting, are harmless and the child grows out of them eventually.

Whether they are considered abnormal depends on how often and how persistently they occur, and their effect on the child’s emotional and social well-being.

The fact that your grandson has obvious bald patches suggests he has a habit disorder that needs treatment.

Although trichotillomania does not usually interfere with physical health or everyday functioning, it might lead to teasing or bullying at school.

It may also be a sign that he has another associated problem that is not yet apparent, such as obsessive compulsive disorder, so some form of action is required.

Most children develop repetitive behaviours at some stage, perhaps because they find them comforting. Typically these habits are harmless and the child grows out of them eventually

What’s more, it could prove too frustrating for you all to try to train him into breaking the habit himself, so it would be far better to obtain professional assessment and accept the help offered.

It would, therefore, be advisable to consult a paediatrician, child psychologist or child psychiatrist — your family doctor should be able to arrange a suitable referral.

One option that a child psychologist might try with him is a habit reversal technique.

This involves teaching the child to substitute a different behaviour for the hair twiddling, such as gently clasping one earlobe between thumb and forefinger.

But before that, a diagnostic assessment is paramount, to be certain there are no other, less obvious problems in his psychological or emotional life.

I have pernicious anaemia. I had vitamin B12 injections every three months for 24 years until I was 64.

I was told originally it would be for the rest of my life and specialists say you cannot get better from pernicious anaemia.

But my doctor cut down the injections from four yearly to two yearly — then told me I didn’t need them at all. Your thoughts please.

Mrs J. J. Sinnott-Martin, Spalding, Lincs.

How confusing. The reasons for the change of advice over your vitamin B12 injections remain unclear — as you say, the diagnosis of pernicious anaemia implies that the condition is lifelong.

Write to Dr Scurr To contact Dr Scurr with a health query, write to him at Good Health Daily Mail, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT or email drmartin@dailymail.co.uk - including contact details. Dr Scurr cannot enter into personal correspondence. His replies cannot apply to individual cases and should be taken in a general context. Always consult your own GP with any health worries.

First, I shall explain the condition for the sake of other readers.

Pernicious anaemia can have various causes. Essentially, it develops if someone becomes unable to absorb vitamin B12 from food (a nutrient only found naturally in foods of animal origin, including meat, poultry, eggs and fish).

The vitamin is absorbed in the last part of the small intestine, but for this to happen it needs to be combined with a protein called intrinsic factor, which is secreted by the lining of the stomach.

Patients who have undergone major surgery to remove the stomach or some of the small intestine are, therefore, at risk of developing pernicious anaemia.

Inflammatory bowel disease can also lead to poor absorption of vitamin B12.

Inflammatory bowel disease or major bowel surgery can lead to poor absorption of vitamin B12

But in most people the condition is an autoimmune disease. In these patients — for reasons we don’t fully understand — the body creates antibodies that damage the cells lining the stomach so it can no longer generate intrinsic factor.

Low levels of B12 can also be down to diet or even — in rare cases — due to infection, with the giant fish tapeworm diphyllobothrium latum, which gobbles up the vitamin, depriving its host.

The body does have stores of vitamin B12 in the liver, so it can take up to three years for symptoms to develop.

Vitamin B12 is vital for the formation of blood cells in the bone marrow, which is why a lack of it causes a form of anaemia, leading to symptoms such as fatigue, pallor, palpitations, breathlessness and headache.

Vitamin B12 is vital for the formation of blood cells in the bone marrow, which is why a lack of it causes a form of anaemia, with symptoms such as fatigue, pallor and headache

It’s also critical for the normal function of the brain and nerves, and so a deficiency can cause problems with memory and mood as well as tingling and numbness.

Some patients experience mood changes months before the onset of anaemia. This is why patients with psychiatric illness and dementia are routinely tested for vitamin B12 levels in the bloodstream.

Before injections of the vitamin became available the condition could even prove fatal.

Your regular injections of vitamin B12 (in the form of cyanocobalamin or hydroxocobalamin) will have topped up your liver stores of the vitamin over time.

But rather than watch and wait and retest your blood level periodically, it would be simpler and less expensive to continue to give the injections at least twice a year.

Regular injections of vitamin B12 (in the form of cyanocobalamin or hydroxocobalamin) will have topped up your liver's stores of the vitamin over time

It remains unclear to me why your doctor decided to review your diagnosis, unless there is an extra factor in your history that I don’t know about — perhaps you used to have a vegan diet but now eat animal products again, for example.

But if that were the case you would not have been given a formal diagnosis of pernicious anaemia.

====== 1772 ========

ASK THE DOCTOR: MY HEART BEATS SLOWLY - SHOULD I BE WORRIED?

I have been wearing a heart rate monitor round my chest before and after exercise, which I have been doing two to four times a week. My heart rate went down to 36 recently, then crept back up to 52 before exercising. I have also felt a bit lightheaded. Should I get it checked out? I'm 40.

Grant Burton, by email.

It's s important to recognise that sinus bradycardia can be a symptom of a number of conditions

For most people, the heart beats at 60-100 times per minute when it's at rest - this is known as the sinus rhythm. It is set by the sinoatrial node, the area of the heart that generates the impulses triggering each heartbeat.

When the rate is below this, as it is sometimes in your case, this is referred to as sinus bradycardia. It is quite possible for this to happen to healthy people, such as in those who are very physically fit - a fitter heart can pump more blood with each beat, so fewer beats per minute are needed for it to do its job.

A slower heartbeat may also occur naturally during sleep.

But it's important to recognise that sinus bradycardia can be a symptom of a number of conditions, so you should therefore get it checked out. One possibility is so-called sick sinus syndrome, where the sinoatrial node malfunctions due to disease.

There are many conditions that can have this effect, including sarcoidosis (a rare condition that causes small patches of red and swollen tissue to develop in the organs), or inflammatory heart conditions such as rheumatic fever.

An underactive thyroid can also result in a slow heart rate, because the hormone it secretes - thyroxine - influences the heart rate.

Dr Scurr recommends an electrocardiogram to record pattern of electrical activity of the heart and blood test

Medications can cause bradycardia, and again there is a long list: beta blockers, opioid painkillers and chemotherapy drugs, are just some of the possibilities.

Bradycardia may also occur in patients with obstructive sleep apnoea - where the tissues of the throat relax and narrow during sleep, interrupting normal breathing.

It can also follow a stroke in some cases, or infectious conditions including Lyme disease, typhoid and dengue fever.

In most patients with sinus bradycardia there are no additional symptoms, unless it is due to a cause such as those listed above. However, a slow heartbeat can cause feelings of lightheadedness - as you have experienced - or even fainting.

An underlying cause will probably come to light when your doctor examines your history. And if none of the above applies, the conclusion may well be that you are an athletic person in whom no further intervention is required.

However, as you are 40 you must undergo an electrocardiogram to record the exact pattern of the electrical activity of your heart and a blood test to check for an underactive thyroid and for other conditions such as silent infection.

Do see your doctor for an initial evaluation, but do not be alarmed.

Bisphosphonates are used to prevent and treat osteoporosis and work by inhibiting the process by which bone is broken down

My sister, aged 77, suffers from osteoporosis and has taken the bisphosphonate alendronic acid for ten years. You have previously said that people usually stop taking this medicine after five years. Can any damage be caused by staying on this drug? She also takes medication for diabetes and blood pressure, and the blood thinner warfarin. She has complained of losing her taste, often feels sick, and takes strong painkillers for back pain. Her GP is varying her painkillers to see if they are behind her problems. Can you advise?

Name and address withheld.

Bone is a living tissue that is constantly being broken down and then re-formed.

Osteoporosis (where bones become weaker and thinner, making them more prone to breaking) occurs when there is a long-term imbalance between these two processes.

Bisphosphonates are used to prevent and treat osteoporosis and work by inhibiting the process by which bone is broken down. They have relatively few side-effects when you take them orally, but these can be unpleasant to say the least, and I have some sympathy with your concern for your sister.

Some patients experience acid reflux and inflammation of the oesophagus, though these are unusual if the tablets' instructions are followed carefully.

There are some other even less common potential side-effects, such as low calcium levels - the risk is greater in patients who have vitamin D deficiency (vitamin D helps the body absorb and use calcium) or too little calcium in their diet.

Most doctors prescribing a bisphosphonate tablet also ask their patients to take a supplement of calcium with vitamin D.

A rare complication of bisphosphonate treatment is severe musculoskeletal pain - this can come on at any time, at the start of treatment, or later.

Even more rare is osteonecrosis of the jaw, where the jaw bone breaks down. Good dental care and hygiene minimise the risk.

Finally, I must mention the complication of atypical fracture of the femur (the thigh bone) - where the bone fractures gradually and spontaneously, without any trauma. This is the one side-effect of bisphosphonate therapy that is specific to long-term treatment, ie, treatment lasting more than seven years.

It seems paradoxical that drugs given to strengthen bone can actually cause the bone to become brittle, but it seems to be linked with over-suppression of bone turnover (the process by which the bone is broken down and re-formed).

This complication affects around just 50 in 100,000 people taking the drug, and it is usually preceded by pain in the groin or thigh, lasting some weeks. This is something to watch out for in your sister.

The potential benefits must be weighed up against these relatively uncommon hazards of long- term treatment.

Treatment for ten years is not unusual, even though most doctors tend to stop at five years if the patient's bone mineral density is stable and they suffered no spontaneous spinal fractures before treatment.

However, in women at high risk of fracture the studies show there are benefits without an increased risk of adverse effects when treatment is continued for ten years.

Your sister's doctor will no doubt consider whether it is the bisphosphonate that's causing her symptoms. On the other hand, it may be the drug that he least wishes to stop, at least for now.

By the way ... The NHS learns nothing from history

The NHS is about 50,000 short of the number of clinical staff needed to provide a safe and effective service, a report by the medical protection Society (MPS) warned recently.

By 'clinical staff', we mean doctors, nurses, dietitians, physiotherapists and all of those professionals involved in the care of sick patients.

This is a matter of great concern, given the massive cutbacks we are facing in healthcare, not to mention the push for routine care to be provided on a seven-day basis, despite the revelation that the data upon which this need is based now appears to be questionable.

Write to Dr Scurr To contact Dr Scurr with a health query, write to him at Good Health Daily Mail, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT or email drmartin@dailymail.co.uk - including contact details. Dr Scurr cannot enter into personal correspondence. His replies cannot apply to individual cases and should be taken in a general context. Always consult your own GP with any health worries.

These various pressures, which threaten the quality and safety of medical care, only serve to confirm my view that the Department of Health and NHS England have very little grasp of how to run a healthcare system.

This was driven home to me this month when I was reading about Sir Frank Whittle, the inventor of the jet engine. Sir Frank's engine first took to the skies in 1941, yet the Air Ministry decided that jet engines were 'impracticable' and dismissed this technological advance.

However, because the concept was not deemed worthy of being kept secret, despite it being wartime, Germany was free to read Frank Whittle's patent.

They did recognise the potential and in three years had an operational jet fighter.

This piece of history mirrors the lack of vision that bedevils the development of the NHS.

Did no one realise, for instance, the devastation that the European Working Time Directive (which puts a block on the number of hours doctors can work) would cause as long-refined, and carefully evolved, consultant-led teams were dissolved as rotas were forcefully created. Has there been no recognition that as 60 per cent of all medical students are women there might be some subsequent manpower considerations, for example, if they choose to work part-time after having children?

And with general practice currently getting less than 10 per cent of the overall NHS budget (although there are now promises of more - but how much?) and healthcare being pushed out into the community, did no one foresee there might be consequences?

Namely, that GPs are under such strain that many are retiring early and fewer young doctors are choosing general practice as a career. None of this will change until politicians and the powers-that-be learn to look beyond their noses, and see the bigger picture - or become visionaries.

====== 1773 ========

ASK THE DOCTOR: WILL A HORMONE JAB END MONTHLY PAIN?

Endometriosis has reared its ugly head in our family - my daughter, aged 48, has been diagnosed with it after a laparoscopy. She had endured back pain and abdominal pain (on her left side) for many months. My daughter is being treated with injections to encourage the menopause. The pain can be severe and is recurring. Can you advise?

Jean Sewell, Portavogie, Co. Down.

Benefit of GnRH injections is that women will rapidly become pain-free as the endometrial tissue is reduced

The good news is that your daughter is very likely to soon be relieved of her pain completely. At the age of 48, the natural menopause is not far away, and in her case this is being hastened medically.

Whether this happens naturally or is induced, the key point is that endometriosis resolves once oestrogen levels decline.

For the benefit of other readers, let me explain what's going on with this common condition. It affects between 10 and 30 per cent of women of reproductive age being checked for pelvic pain - usually after a laparoscopy, where the inside of the abdomen is examined using a tiny camera.

It is caused when endometrial tissue - the tissue that normally lines the womb - grows outside the womb, for instance, in the bladder, the ovaries and the other structures within the pelvic area, including the rectum.

As with the womb lining itself, this tissue breaks down and bleeds every month, But because there is no route for the blood to leave the body, it can trigger inflammation, which causes pain. The condition can also lead to problems with fertility.

Drugs are used to suppress the ovaries' production of oestrogen and are effective in reducing pelvic pain

The tissue breakdown occurs as a result of the normal hormonal changes of the menstrual cycle. This is why the condition disappears in postmenopausal women, as long as they are not taking oestrogen (which stimulates the endometrium) by way of HRT.

What triggers it is still unclear. One suggestion is that at some stage when the womb lining was shed during menstruation, some cells passed back through the fallopian tubes (this is known as retrograde menstruation) and then became implanted on pelvic structures.

Treatment is aimed at eradicating all endometrial cells outside the womb. If the woman is still hoping for a pregnancy, at some stage treatment will involve careful attempts to remove all of the endometrial tissue at the abnormal sites - such as by using a laser as a keyhole procedure. For older patients such as your daughter, reducing oestrogen levels by hastening the menopause will cure the problem.

It is likely that she will be treated with a GnRH agonist - these drugs are widely used to suppress the ovaries' production of oestrogen and are highly effective in reducing pelvic pain.

One such drug is goserelin, given every few weeks by injection. There will be side-effects, such as hot flushes and accelerated bone loss, due to the onset of the menopause - though the latter can be kept at bay by the addition of calcium and vitamin D or even a weekly bisphosphonate tablet.

However, the benefit of the GnRH injections is that your daughter will rapidly become pain-free as the endometrial tissue is reduced.

I can't walk far without getting distressed - breathless with a heavy feeling all over my body. If I walk up a slight slope or steps, I can feel faint and sometimes nauseous. I do walk up stairs at home, mostly without feeling too distressed. In 2013, a heart specialist did a stress test and ECG - he said I performed well for my age and it must be a lung problem. Later, it was thought I might have asthma and I was given a puffer. I'm not convinced it's asthma. I am 80.

Jean Kilbey, by email.

The problem here is one of diagnosis. I simply do not believe your intolerance of exertion above a small limit can be put down to your age. There must be a cause and it is vital this is identified before you can take steps to put it right.

As you have explained, minimal exertion - the stairs at home, for example - is not enough to trigger the problem. I note that you are not suffering from breathlessness when at rest, such as when in bed at night.

In my opinion, the origins of the symptom must lie with your heart or lungs. Though a heart problem has already been considered and excluded, that was three years ago.

You tell me that you performed well on the exercise ECG (electro cardiogram). This measures the rhythm and electrical activity of the heart while you walk on a treadmill and may be performed when symptoms are triggered by physical activity.

However, we know this test can be misleading and can produce false positive or false negative results. It may be that if you were to take the test again, the cause would reveal itself.

If your problem is down to a shortage of blood supply to the heart muscle, for example, this may not necessarily result in pain - known as angina - but as shortage of breath or weakness, because the heart isn't pumping efficiently. These symptoms are similar to those you describe.

The same symptoms can occur if your heart doesn't contract fully - which is when it pushes the blood around the body.

This is called 'heart failure', and may be apparent only with physical exertion.

Another thought is that it may be a heart rhythm disorder - when you are walking, with your heart working that bit harder, the rhythm becomes temporarily irregular, which can also lead to a drop in the amount of blood pumped out, causing the sort of symptoms that trouble you.

All of these possibilities should be investigated further.

Some cardiologists might suggest an echocardiogram, an ultrasound scan of the heart, or an enhancement of that test, a stress echocardiogram, where the heart rate is increased with exercise or medication. This should be the next step.

Jean can't walk far without getting distressed - breathless with a heavy feeling all over her body (file photo)

Your lungs have been thought about as a cause of the symptoms.

Some people do become breathless on exertion because the physical stress triggers a form of asthma - but the puffer you were given didn't ease the symptom, which leads me to think a lung problem is a less likely cause.

In summary, I suggest that what is needed is a reassessment by a heart specialist. That should allow your doctors to think about the most appropriate treatment to bring you some relief.

By the way ... Overweight medics set a bad example

Do as I say, not as I do. A dictum that was probably never so true about many of my medical colleagues.

I was reminded of this recently when speaking at a literary festival about the evolution of medical practice during my career. I was on the stage with my son, Cosmo, an anaesthetist and Fellow of the Royal College of Anaesthetists. He is also a member of the Royal College of Emergency Medicine (he trained as an A&E doctor before moving into anaesthetics).

Cosmo and I reflected on how in recent years ambulance drivers have increased their professionalism in leaps and bounds, and are now trained as paramedics.

Write to Dr Scurr To contact Dr Scurr with a health query, write to him at Good Health Daily Mail, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT or email drmartin@dailymail.co.uk - including contact details. Dr Scurr cannot enter into personal correspondence. His replies cannot apply to individual cases and should be taken in a general context. Always consult your own GP with any health worries.

Cosmo was at pains to explain to the audience that in the event of an accident, or many other health emergencies, he believes it would be far better to be treated by a paramedic rather than any doctor who just happens to be around.

The reason is that paramedics are the experts at crisis management in those situations, fully equipped and trained to cope with problems with the airways, major bleeding, serious multiple injuries and collapse from any cause, for this is their everyday task and they practise their skills constantly.

To my surprise, this week, on two occasions I have come across paramedics puffing away on cigarettes as they leant against their emergency vehicles.

It reminded me of an inspection of my general practice by the Care Quality Commission, a detailed probing to ensure all aspects of our work pass acceptable standards.

Both CQC inspectors were so obese that they were unable to sit in the two armchairs provided for my patients - they had to lean against the examination couch and I had constant misgivings about whether it could cope with a 50 st load.

I was reminded, too, about a friend, now a dietician, who was taught at university by an academic nutritionist who was morbidly obese. The teacher was apparently oblivious to the irony of this.

Should we insist that those engaged in healthcare set a good example?

====== 1774 ========

ASK THE DOCTOR: I'VE READ THAT MY HEART PILLS MAY BE DANGEROUS

After having a pacemaker fitted, I was prescribed 20mg Xarelto (rivaroxaban). I have read it described as 'the most dangerous drug', and that thousands are suing the makers. I am 82 and healthy but terrified about adverse reports.

Rev John Theobald, Whitby, North Yorks.

The fact that lawyers are collecting cases of people who have suffered a side-effect from this drug is troubling to say the least.

'When making a decision about anticoagulation, it is essential to bear in mind dangers and complications'

I understand more than 3,000 lawsuits have been filed in the U.S. against the maker and distributor of Xarelto, alleging that the drug has caused unstoppable bleeding, even death.

However, to describe rivaroxaban as 'very dangerous' is unhelpful and emotive, and we must rely upon the evidence to make our decisions.

It's important to place the use of the drug in the context of the dangers of the condition being treated and consider the hazards of the alternative: warfarin. I hope that what I say may help you feel less concerned.

Rivaroxaban is a newly developed blood-thinner - a drug to prevent clotting - and is one of a group of three 'novel' anticoagulants; the other two are apixaban (brand name Eliquis) and dabigatran (Pradaxa).

These medicines are primarily used to prevent strokes in patients with atrial fibrillation, where the patient's heart beats irregularly, and often abnormally fast. There is a risk of a blood clot forming in one of the heart's chambers and travelling to the brain, causing a stroke.

The drugs are also used in patients with deep vein thrombosis, to prevent blood clots migrating from the deep veins in the legs up to the lungs causing a pulmonary embolism, which can be fatal.

'This drug is effective at preventing stroke. Although it is not without some risk, it compares favourably'

Prior to the arrival of these new anticoagulants, the only treatments available were heparin, which can be given only by injection, and warfarin, taken as a daily tablet.

It might seem more convenient, but warfarin is not without its problems as it's affected by what patients eat. This is partly because warfarin works by slowing the body's production of vitamin K, needed for the blood to clot. Food high in this (such as spinach and broccoli) can potentially interfere with the drug's effect.

As a result, patients can end up taking too much or too little. In the worst case scenario, unwanted and potentially dangerous clotting may still occur, or if the dose is too high, the risk is dangerous bleeding in the brain or elsewhere.

This is why patients taking warfarin must have regular blood tests to decide the dose.

Rivaroxaban and the two other new blood-thinners can be given in a standard dose without blood-testing (though an investigation by the BMJ in 2014 suggested blood-testing to adjust doses would make Pradaxa safer).

However, the disadvantage of these drugs is the lack of an antidote. If there is an adverse reaction - such as unwanted bleeding - the only solution is to wait a day or two for the drug to wear off.

In contrast, warfarin can, to a certain extent, be reversed by the injection of vitamin K.

But recent trial evidence suggests effective antidotes to the new drugs may have been identified.

The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) has weighed up the pros and cons of warfarin and rivaroxaban. It now recommends rivaroxaban as an option, stating the drug should be used after an informed discussion about its risks and benefits compared with warfarin.

When considering its decision, the NICE committee heard evidence that in terms of the total number of significant bleeding events as a side-effect, there is no difference between the two drugs. There was a reduction in the number of fatal bleeds and intracranial haemorrhages (bleeding in the brain) - which can kill or cause permanent damage - with rivaroxaban, but a higher rate of bleeds in the intestine, which can be more easily treated before causing permanent damage.

When making a decision about anticoagulation, it is essential to bear in mind the dangers and complications of the condition being treated - in your case, I assume this is atrial fibrillation.

I hope that I can reassure you not to be terrified. This drug is effective at preventing stroke. Although it is not without some risk, it compares favourably with the alternative, warfarin.

I have had a bad case of constipation over the past few weeks. After a phone consultation with a GP, I was prescribed Laxido, which is good, but the struggle and straining has left me with a terrible aching in my back passage. It comes and goes but is very uncomfortable and sometimes makes my legs ache. The doctor didn't think it was anything to worry about.

Name and address withheld.

What concerns me is that you have not been examined and investigated further. You do not mention your age, but in older patients - by which I mean middle-aged and beyond - any alteration of bowel habit, such as constipation for several weeks, demands further investigation, even if prescribed laxatives seem to be helping.

I would not recommend taking the Laxido for longer than two weeks without seeing your doctor if your symptoms have not fully resolved.

You describe an ache that comes and goes and which, your longer letter explains, sometimes affects you at night. I can think of two possible explanations.

One is proctalgia fugax, a disorder in which there are fleeting but severe bouts of pain in the rectum with no other symptoms. It affects 5 to 10 per cent of people of almost all ages.

The episodes may last anything from seconds to minutes and typically occur a few times a year. Although there is some debate over the exact cause, it is thought to be down to an intense spasm of the rectum muscles.

To make the diagnosis, other causes of anal or rectal pain must be ruled out by examination. For example, haemorrhoids, abscesses, anal fissure, rectal cancer and inflammatory bowel disease may all give rise to this symptom.

A second possibility is chronic proctalgia, where bouts of pain last at least 20 minutes - again this is thought to be due to muscle spasms. To diagnose this, the patient must have had episodes for at least three months and all other causes must be excluded.

The best course of action is to see your usual doctor, discuss things further and perhaps be referred for an investigation.

This should include a flexible sigmoidoscopy - where a viewing scope is used to examine the rectum and a few inches of the colon - or a full colonoscopy (to examine the entire colon) to rule out any sinister cause of the change in bowel habit and the subsequent bouts of pain.

By the way... GPs must have 15 minutes with patients

'One of the greatest anxieties is having to see patients with such haste that there is a sense of cutting corners and compromising standards while short-changing people the simple humanity that's so important'

As I have so often said, the pressures on general practitioners have multiplied exponentially in the last few years - so much so that many senior doctors are opting for early retirement and young doctors are becoming reluctant to choose general practice as a career option.

When 20 to 40 patients visit a day, one of the greatest anxieties is having to see them with such haste that there is a sense of cutting corners and compromising standards while short-changing people the simple humanity that's so important.

Working day in, day out under such pressure can lead to mistakes. In the event of a complaint or an error that results in disciplinary procedures, the doctor is assumed guilty until proven innocent. Between 2005 and 2013, 28 doctors are thought to have died through suicide while undergoing investigation by the General Medical Council. Many had mental health problems that required support and treatment, but this went unrecognised by the powers-that-be.

Write to Dr Scurr To contact Dr Scurr with a health query, write to him at Good Health Daily Mail, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT or email drmartin@dailymail.co.uk - including contact details. Dr Scurr cannot enter into personal correspondence. His replies cannot apply to individual cases and should be taken in a general context. Always consult your own GP with any health worries.

However, here comes a breath of fresh air from the British Medical Association with the suggestion that GPs should spend 15 minutes with each patient - rather than the current ten - and that there should be a cap on the total number of consultations in each day.

The union has recognised that major changes are needed to limit the current strains crushing the professional life out of so many GPs. Such a move can only help, but it requires changes that are impossible to achieve - the first being a vast increase in the number of GPs.

It currently takes about 12 years to train a first-year undergraduate at medical school to become a fully-fledged general practitioner.

Topping up the numbers with doctors recruited from overseas may involve accepting far lower levels of training and even compromising standards - and that's assuming they can be lured here in sufficient numbers.

I am not sure there is a solution within the current healthcare model.

====== 1775 ========

IS FLU JAB THE CAUSE FOR A FROZEN SHOULDER

My husband had a flu jab in his left arm last October and a pneumonia jab in his right arm at the same time. He complained that his left arm felt tender and sore but thought it would ease. In fact it has got much worse and he now can't lift his left arm and the movement is severely reduced. When he tries to reach something it is very painful. The doctor suggested it might be arthritis but the X-rays are all clear. He is in agony.

Irene, Brighton.

My suspicion is that your husband has developed a frozen shoulder. Sometimes known as adhesive capsulitis, this is a common condition that affects about 5 per cent of the population, typically people in their 50s and 60s.

Once improvement is under way then strength building exercises can hasten his return to normal function

It may be pure coincidence that this problem occurred following the flu jab, but in fact I have seen exactly this scenario occur more than once in the past.

The condition develops when the flexible tissue that surrounds the shoulder joint, known as the capsule, becomes inflamed and thickened. This causes the disabling pain that your husband has experienced, which typically persists for some months.

It is followed by a phase of stiffness, during which the pain will gradually resolve. After that, the shoulder will recover and become more mobile over the course of a year or two.

Frozen shoulder typically occurs after injury to the joint, such as a tear to the rotator cuff, a group of muscles and tendons surrounding the shoulder joint.

It can also occur after major surgery such as heart surgery, or a stroke; it's also more common in those with diabetes or thyroid disorders, though there are no clear-cut reasons why.

As to whether the vaccination might be linked, there have been one or two cases reported in medical literature of what they call 'shoulder injury related to vaccine administration' (SIRVA).

Frozen shoulder typically occurs after injury

There are suggestions it might be down to an inflammatory effect, perhaps caused by placing the injection too deep, but this is far from proven.

The point now is how to resolve the problem. For your husband's doctor, or orthopaedic specialist, if he is referred to one, diagnosis of frozen shoulder will be based upon his symptoms and a physical examination.

X-rays, MRI or ultrasound scans only serve to exclude other causes, such as a torn rotator cuff, which would explain why your husband's X-rays were clear.

However, as a diagnostic test, some specialists inject the joint with local anaesthetic - in the case of frozen shoulder the patient's mobility will show no improvement, whereas in other shoulder problems, such as a form of tendonitis, it will usually improve instantly, albeit briefly.

There are no standard treatments for frozen shoulder. However, some specialists recommend an injection of corticosteroid directly into the shoulder joint, to help relieve pain and improve movement - this may be most effective when given early in the condition. There is also a technique called hydrodilation, which involves injecting the joint with a mixture of steroids and cold salt water, helping to stretch the tissue of the capsule so the joint is easier to move and recovery can begin.

However, the first step for your husband must be an accurate diagnosis. Might he perhaps be referred to an orthopaedic specialist or a rheumatologist for a diagnostic opinion?

Once improvement is under way then strength building exercises, initially taught by a physiotherapist, can hasten his return to normal shoulder function.

I'm a healthy 73-year-old woman but seem to have inherited my father's condition of a leaking bowel, which I've had for 15 years. It's embarrassing and I have to wear underwear protection, especially shortly after a bowel movement. Very often I don't notice the leak happening. I've tried altering my diet. I gave up milk for a while, stopped eating fruit, put bran on my food for added fibre and taken probiotics. I've even taken a daily loperamide capsule to slow down my bowel. I haven't seen my GP as I thought I could sort it out myself. Can you advise?

Name and address withheld.

You have my sympathy. This symptom must be having a significant impact on your life, and you have tolerated it for too long, with a valiant self-imposed struggle for the past 15 years.

The diagnosis is faecal incontinence. There are two forms - those with urge incontinence experience a need to empty the bowel but, despite their best efforts, cannot reach the loo in time.

Those with the second type, passive incontinence, don't feel any sensation before the leak occurs. You fall into the second category.

The important question is: what is the cause?

When things are working properly, as the rectum (the last part of the large intestine, before the anal canal and anus) progressively fills, it causes an involuntary reflex opening of the ring of muscular tissue that sits about 6mm from the anus (the internal anal sphincter). But while the urge to defecate is increasing, the external sphincter maintains continence until the moment is right.

Maintaining control depends upon the interplay of a number of factors: psychology, the state of the anal sphincter (two rings of muscle which help keep the anus closed), sensation in the anus and rectum, and reflexes in the pelvis.

The volume and consistency of bowel contents are also important. Loss of continence may be due to abnormality of any of these factors - for example, anal sphincter weakness caused by nerve problems because of diabetes or injury to the spinal cord, or it may be due to trauma, such as damage from childbirth. Disorders such as multiple sclerosis or even dementia can impair rectal sensation.

My advice is that you do discuss this with your GP and seek referral to an expert for a full evaluation. This might then involve testing to detect abnormalities of the anal sphincters and the rectum, which all falls within the highly specialised province of a proctologist.

What is also unexplained is whether there is any link between your father's condition and your own. I am unable to think of an obvious one, and I see no relationship between faecal incontinence and the other health problems you've had, as set out in your longer letter: gallbladder removal, hernia repair, medication to lower cholesterol, or your underactive thyroid, now corrected by thyroxine supplements.

In summary, the time has come to seek expert help.

By the way ... It's time to clear the air in your home

The problem with air pollution is that unless it's really bad, we can't see it - and as a result, many remain oblivious to its pernicious effects. But we do so at our peril.

The problem with air pollution is that unless it's really bad, we can't see it. Many remain oblivious to its effects

In February the Royal College of Physicians published a report attributing 40,000 deaths a year to air pollution, citing a wide range of related causes: cancer, asthma, stroke, heart disease, diabetes, obesity, and dementia.

The damage appears to start early - even before birth, with pollution affecting the development of the brain - and early childhood is a time of particular vulnerability.

Previously, the main issue contributing to air pollution was the burning of coal - a problem subsequently banished by the Clean Air Act - and then more recently, the use of lead as an additive in petrol. Lead tetraethyl, an engine anti-knocking agent, is now also banned. These days the concern is the health-damaging effects of nitrogen oxides and particulates, tiny particles produced by vehicles burning diesel fuel.

WRITE TO DR SCURR To contact Dr Scurr with a health query, write to him at Good Health Daily Mail, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT or email drmartin@dailymail.co.uk - including contact details. Dr Scurr cannot enter into personal correspondence. His replies cannot apply to individual cases and should be taken in a general context. Always consult your own GP with any health worries.

There is little doubt the problem is often worse in cities. Last month the think tank Policy Exchange suggested that millions of Londoners could live at least a month longer with the introduction of a series of anti-air pollution measures.

But we can also help ourselves avoid air pollution in our own homes. Nitrogen dioxide, one of these oxides, is also given off by gas boilers and cooking appliances; so it's also the home we need to think about.

Other sources of air pollution in the home include common items such as air fresheners, deodorants and cleaning products (these are sources of volatile compounds which evaporate into the air) and even furnishings, some of which are made with glues and resins that give off formaldehyde fumes.

Ensuring that there is adequate ventilation to reduce the build-up of chemical residues is vital, along with using eco-friendly cleaning materials which contain fewer pollutants.

Although it has to be said that, indoors, tobacco smoke is still the most serious cause of health damage.

With fears that the government is dragging its feet on air pollution (environmental lawyers have criticised its plans to cut pollutants as falling 'woefully short' of what's needed) we can't wait for officialdom to take action.

When it comes to cleaning up the air in your home, for some practical advice and tips I would recommend visiting the website myhealthyhome.com.

====== 1776 ========

ASK THE DOCTOR: IS A PAINFUL TUM A SIGN THAT I HAVE GALLSTONES?

Until recently I worked as flight crew for a major airline. During one stop-over in the Far East, I paid to have a full medical check-up. An ultrasound showed I had a 23mm gallstone. I had no symptoms and medical opinion was split on whether to remove my gallbladder or leave it, so I decided to leave it be.

Seven years later, I sometimes get a severe stabbing pain in my left lower abdomen. The pain comes in sharp short throbs, lasting one to ten seconds, and feels like I'm being jabbed with a needle. I am 63.

Robert Bailey, by email.

The most common symptom of gallstones is pain, known as biliary colic, when the stone blocks the bile duct

Gallstones are common and affect about one in ten adults. In most cases they cause no symptoms, although studies have shown that about 15 per cent of people whose stones are found 'accidentally', as in your case, will go on to develop symptoms at some stage in the next ten years.

The most common symptom is pain, known as biliary colic, which occurs when the stone blocks the bile duct.

The pain is typically felt in the right upper abdomen, although it can be felt more centrally, behind the sternum (breastbone), and may even be mistaken for heart pain. The pain can also radiate in to the back, or right shoulder blade region.

It is usually severe and can last from several minutes to several hours, but remains constant. So the pain that you describe in your left lower abdomen, which occurs in short throbs, is not typical of gallstone pain, either in distribution or character - but I will say more on this later.

About 15 per cent of people whose stones are found 'accidentally' will go on to develop symptoms

As for not having the surgery seven years ago, I believe you made the right decision. It is not normal practice to remove the gallbladder for the sake of symptomless gallstones.

However, when the stones do cause symptoms, we do have to remove the gallbladder; the presence of stones is a sign of gallbladder disease and more stones will inevitably form in future, with the risk of other complications, such as infection, so just removing the stones is not an option.

Your symptoms, while unlikely to be due to the gallstone, do merit further investigation.

I wonder whether your problems are linked to a stone that's migrated from your left kidney to the ureter, the tube that connects the kidney to the bladder.

Stones that originate in the kidney are known as kidney stones, though doctors tend to use the term 'urinary stones', as they can become stuck anywhere between the kidney, the bladder or even the urethra on the way out. Urinary stones can cause intermittent pain with few other symptoms.

Problems could be due to a stone that's migrated from the left kidney to the ureter [file photo]

Another possibility is that your pain is actually intestinal pain originating in the descending or sigmoid colon, both part of the large intestine.

The matter should be looked at further and I would recommend that you discuss this issue with your GP.

In the past two years, I've had bouts of bleeding from the bowel.

My GP was vague about the problem and what caused it; my local pharmacist said it was unusual to get the problem for the first time at my age, 74. I recently read that unabsorbed iron in the gut may cause bowel disease.

For several years now I've been eating a great deal of watercress - often four to six bunches a week - for its vitamins and nutrients, one of which is iron. Have I been overdosing on it?

B. Darlow, Kempston, Beds.

There are two aspects to your letter: most importantly what should be done about rectal bleeding - and, second, whether eating watercress almost every day can do harm.

In my opinion, rectal bleeding must be investigated.

It is not good enough, particularly in an older patient, to assume that it is due to an unimportant problem such as haemorrhoids (piles) - these are common and, if they cause no symptoms apart from occasional slight blood loss, can be ignored. But an exact diagnosis is needed.

Rectal bleeding can be caused by diverticular disease (where small bulges or pockets form in the lining of the intestine), inflammatory bowel disease (this includes Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis and it is certainly true that it's unusual for either to occur for the first time in someone of your age) and colon cancer.

Your bouts of bleeding should be investigated by an inspection of the colon - the gold standard is a colonoscopy, during which a doctor examines the inner lining of your large intestine using a thin, flexible tube with a tiny camera attached.

The recent article you mention suggested unabsorbed iron in the intestine was linked to inflammation and changes in gut bacteria, which could increase the risk of bowel disease: the article suggested seaweed pills might prevent this by binding to excess iron in the gut.

This is still an area of ongoing research, and it could even be that the watercress you've been eating might have the same protective effect as seaweed, rather than the negative effect you fear.

However, studies into any potentially protective effect of watercress have not been conducted.

What I can tell you is that the nutritional constituents of watercress have been evaluated in great detail.

According to McCance and Widdowson's Composition of Foods - the authoritative record of nutrient data for the most commonly consumed foods in the UK - 100g of raw watercress contains 2520mcg of carotene (vitamin A), several milligrams of vitamin E and the B group of vitamins, and 62mg of vitamin C.

In terms of minerals, there is sodium, potassium, calcium, phosphorus, copper, zinc, chloride, manganese - and iron (2.2mg only). All these are very good nutritionally, and none is found in excess in watercress.

Studies into any potentially protective effect of watercress - which is very nutritious - have not been conducted

I would add that what is important is you are taking care to eat foods that are fresh and unadulterated with additives that are a feature of so many manufactured foods. This attitude is ideal for promoting good health.

Do discuss the rectal bleeding once again with your doctor, to consider the possible causes, and have no fear about the watercress, even on a daily basis.

By the way ... Hospital really is no place to die

I think it's fair to say that hospitals are not good places for those dying from chronic disease - too often we read of inadequate treatment and the unnecessary suffering of these patients, which is both unsettling and puzzling. After all, this is not high-tech medical care, nor are the failures in care due to lack of understanding.

Instead, the problem centres around deficiencies in the so-called 'soft side' of medical and nursing treatment: essentially, kindness and compassion.

WRITE TO DR SCURR To contact Dr Scurr with a health query, write to him at Good Health Daily Mail, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT or email drmartin@dailymail.co.uk - including contact details. Dr Scurr cannot enter into personal correspondence. His replies cannot apply to individual cases and should be taken in a general context. Always consult your own GP with any health worries.

These are things that are difficult to teach and where standards are difficult to measure - and which have suffered in the current culture with its emphasis on protocols, tick-box mentality, completing the paperwork and so on.

Thus it was that the Liverpool Care Pathway (a set of guidelines that was intended to assist those professionals engaged in the giving of palliative care) ended up being so misused - with dying patients being refused even a sip of water, in some instances - that it ended up having to be abandoned.

Blind adherence to the pathway became an end in itself, thereby missing the point entirely.

When it first emerged many decades ago, the hospice movement led the way in how it should be done, with doctors and nurses trained in the care of the dying based upon apprenticeship and experience: young professionals learned by the example set by their senior colleagues.

There is no reason at all why this shouldn't also be what happens in hospitals, yet somehow we have deviated from the four pillars of medical ethics in the care of dying patients. These are: autonomy - if someone is thirsty, give them a drink and allow them to govern what is happening to them; beneficence - be kind, be gentle, be understanding and ease pain; non-maleficence - do nothing harmful, help settle tumultuous emotions, do not sit in judgment; and, finally, justice - be fair, do everything to ease the journey and the suffering, within what is laid down by law.

The word hospice originally referred to a place of rest for a weary traveller, often a traveller who was ill or dying.

====== 1777 ========

ASK THE DOCTOR: WHY IS MY DAD SUDDENLY SLEEPY DURING THE DAY?

If the awaited MRI result is normal, Dr Scurr suspects doctors will conclude he has a post-traumatic sleep disorder due to brain injury

My father has developed a need to sleep virtually all day as well as at night - he will fall asleep even when having breakfast and then goes and sits in a chair and is sound asleep until at least mid-morning. He's 93 and had a fall in the garden about eight months ago. We're waiting for MRI results, but all the other tests are normal. This behaviour started about two months after the fall. It's been dismissed as 'being old' by his doctors, but we're not convinced.

Jane Johnson, by email.

Your worry over these symptoms is understandable. Daytime sleepiness is common in people of your father's age.

This may be because older people don't sleep as well at night as they used to, but it can also be an effect of medications prescribed - sometimes unwisely - for anxiety or sleeping problems, such as tranquillisers or sleeping pills.

It can also be an early sign of dementia - something that has been ruled out in your father's case.

As his sleepiness is a departure from his previous habits, it warrants investigation. It certainly should not be dismissed as just old age.

It's possible that a brain injury from his fall is at the root. Sleep disturbances are known to follow traumatic brain injury - commonly excessive daytime sleepiness, but also, at times, insomnia - even though many patients' scans will look normal.

Dr Scurr is concerned the MRI scan might show an abnormality: chronic subdural haematoma, which is a type of blood clot that slowly accumulates between the tough wrapping of the brain and the brain tissue (file photo)

If the awaited MRI result is normal, then I suspect your father's doctors will conclude he has a post-traumatic sleep disorder due to brain injury.

The cause of this is still not well understood. There are suspicions about disruptions to a brain chemical called orexin, which is involved in sleep, or minuscule structural brain changes that cannot be seen on scans, but which somehow have an effect on the mechanisms that govern when we feel alert and when we feel sleepy.

I am concerned the MRI scan might show an abnormality: a chronic subdural haematoma, which is a type of blood clot that slowly accumulates between the tough wrapping of the brain and the brain tissue itself.

A haematoma can develop over weeks and months after even minor trauma to the head, especially in the elderly. It may be it was not yet visible at the time of the first scan, which I assume was a CT scan.

A haematoma may cause no symptoms, at least initially, though as blood builds up and impinges on brain tissue there may be headache, unsteadiness and confusion, as well as sleepiness.

Surgery can be performed to drain a subdural haematoma. If one is confirmed on a second MRI scan, your father will come under the care of a neurosurgeon.

However, it is not inevitable that he will need surgery, for sometimes they do resolve on their own.

If there is not a subdural haematoma, the diagnosis must be that he has a sleep-wake disorder due to the head injury. A neurologist or sleep specialist might become involved if this is the case as there is a possibility of treatment with the narcolepsy drug modafinil, which raises levels of brain chemicals such as orexin and histamine - which is also important for sleep regulation.

I recently had an X-ray of my lower spine and it showed 'significant signs of wear'. I have experienced quite a lot of stiffness and pain because of this and am taking ibuprofen. My doctor tells me I may get some benefit from an osteopath or chiropractor. I would like to know what is the difference between these two professions and which is most likely to be of help in easing my symptoms.

Mrs Sylvia Jones, E. Yorks.

Back pain can be perplexing for the patient and doctor because the extent of the wear and tear - or osteoarthritis - to the bones in the spine as seen on an X-ray does not always correlate with the severity of pain and stiffness that patients experience.

Someone with severe, chronic pain may have few signs of damage, and others may have X-ray evidence of severe osteoarthritis and yet not experience much pain at all.

What is difficult to measure and understand is inflammation of the soft tissues, muscles and ligaments of your back, and of the facet joints between the vertebrae.

It is inflammation that accounts for most of the pain.

Many patients attain a degree of pain relief from prescribed drugs - particularly non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen.

But in view of the potential for side-effects, such as irritation of the stomach lining and kidney damage, this is not ideal as a long-term strategy.

Short courses - a day or two or even a week or two, only when the pain is particularly severe - seem to be the best compromise.

This means that apart from specialist interventions, such as injections of steroids and local anaesthetic into inflamed facet joints, the management of back pain as you are experiencing it must focus on a range of physical interventions.

This includes physiotherapy and, as you have been advised, a complementary approach such as osteopathy or chiropractic.

Someone with severe, chronic pain may have few signs of damage, and others may have X-ray evidence of severe osteoarthritis

Osteopathy involves the physical manipulation of muscle tissue and bones.

Chiropractic is similar. However, it also has a commitment to the idea that this can somehow help other health problems elsewhere in the body.

I am not aware of any evidence-backed theory for how these treatments work, but, put simply, people seem to find the experience soothing.

The limited research that is available suggests it sometimes works for lower back pain.

However, given the ever-present dictum 'first do no harm' and the knowledge that manipulation treatments have been found to be harmful, it is important not to spend too much time and money on multiple sessions that are not of benefit.

I would instead point you towards other activities, such as tai chi, originally a martial art, pilates or yoga, which have been found to be effective. These activities help to strengthen the muscles of the abdomen and back and improve posture, all of which can help with back pain.

These do take time and should be practised under the supervision of a trained teacher, who can advise you on what moves and positions to do according to your pain levels and limitations.

It may suit you - especially as you say you used to be very active - and, over some months, it could give you considerable ease.

By the way... Closing pharmacies is a dangerous error

There was a time when a familiar face would greet you at your local pharmacy in much the same way you experience when going to your family doctor.

When I entered general practice in 1977, I valued the professional advice and support available in my local pharmacy six days a week.

The same pharmacist was always there to help me research rarely used medicines, seek out information or find urgently needed items of equipment, cylinders of oxygen or other vital emergency supplies.

WRITE TO DR SCURR To contact Dr Scurr with a health query, write to him at Good Health Daily Mail, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT or email drmartin@dailymail.co.uk - including contact details. Dr Scurr cannot enter into personal correspondence. His replies cannot apply to individual cases and should be taken in a general context. Always consult your own GP with any health worries.

For many patients today, the local pharmacy is just a High Street shop where you collect the medicine that a GP has prescribed.

But a pharmacist is a highly trained professional who can dispense much-needed, face-to-face, expert advice about health concerns, unexpected symptoms and minor injuries. Indeed, pharmacists are a valuable supplement to the GP service, which, as we know all too well, is under the cosh.

Yet small, local pharmacies seem to be at risk of going the way of local post offices, bakeries and newsagents as, more and more, the big boys take over and worse, the Government is set to ride roughshod over the industry.

Earlier this year, it was revealed that the Department of Health believes there are 3,000 too many pharmacies in England - and admits that many face closure.

All High Street pharmacies receive NHS funding - on average, £220,000 a year, depending on the number of prescriptions they issue and other services they offer, such as providing flu jabs - but the pot is being cut by 6 per cent, which is around £170 million.

The Government is dressing up such cutbacks as 'efficiencies' - saying that pharmacy services must be better integrated into primary care.

That might mean more GP surgeries equipped with their own pharmacies, but also, I imagine, prescriptions sent by email to the 'hub and spoke' arrangement.

This is where the assembly and labelling of prescriptions is done in a large, centralised hub and then returned to a 'spoke', a registered pharmacy or other premises, where a patient can collect it.

====== 1778 ========

MOST POPULAR NEWS STORIES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1779 ========

MAILONLINE MOBILE APPS

Mummy, I see dead people! These children each describe in macabre detail meeting 'ghost' friends who REALLY existed... and most spooky of all, can give details about them that they would have no way of finding out for themselves

====== 1780 ========

DAILY MAIL IPHONE AND IPAD APP

iPhone and iPad app

The MailOnline (Daily Mail) app gives you everything you've come to expect and love from the world's largest English-language newspaper website, but with quick, easy and free access on your iPhone or iPad-- accessible even when you're offline.

Feed your daily addiction with stories & photos from all our top channels: UK, US & World News, Celebrity & Showbiz, Sport, Femail, Science & Tech, Health, Money, Travel, and many more! See what everyone's talking about and download our app today.

====== 1781 ========

VIDEO: DRAMATIC FOOTAGE SHOWS POLICE'S NEW TACTICS TO TAKE DOWN MOPED MUGGERS

Video: Dramatic footage shows police's new tactics to take down moped muggers

Footage released by the Metropolitan Police shows how a squad of specially trained officers are now targeting moped muggers in London.

====== 1782 ========

HOW POLICE USE 'DNA SPRAY' TO CATCH MOPED CRIMINALS

Police are spraying moped criminals with so-called 'DNA spray' as part of the new blitz on scooter gangs.

The invisible liquid can be used to link suspects to mopeds used in crime and prove their involvement when cases come to court.

One moped yob who fell foul of the new tactic is Mohammad Khaleghi, who was sprayed with the substance as he rode his moped dangerously in Camden in May in this year.

When police later caught up with him, a UV light exposed the spray and he was jailed for driving without a licence, failing to stop and dangerous driving.

Mohammad Khaleghi when he failed to stop on his moped in Camden this year

Khaleghi rode along pavements, through red lights, against oncoming traffic and along cycle paths as he tried to get away from police.

He was sprayed by an officer on a motorcycle as he fled in case he later need to be connected to the crime.

In this instance, police managed to catch up with him and he was arrested.

Scotland Yard released photos of him under UV lights to show how their new spray works.

Chief Inspector Jim Corbett said 'Khaleghi not only failed to stop for police but rode at speed through several red traffic lights.

'He took off his helmet and he continued to ride through bollards onto a cycle path and then on a pavement being used by pedestrians.

'His riding was extremely dangerous and he endangered other motorists and people as well as himself.

'Khaleghi thought that if he removed his helmet we would not continue to pursue. He was wrong. We continued in the pursuit and he was caught and has been jailed.'

The spray is visible under UV light, even in daylight, and helps link criminals to crimes

Khalegi, 22, received a 10-month jail term at Southwark Crown Court on November 8.

He was spotted by specialist officers riding erratically through Camden on May 5 and started following him.

According to a Scotland Yard spokesman: 'A police officer from Operation Venice (which tackles moped crime) on a police motorcycle, noticed Khaleghi riding in an erratic manner along Adelaide Road and so followed him.

'On Boundary Road Khaleghi went through a set of red traffic lights at speed. He did the same on Finchley Road which is a busy three lane ‘A’ road. He turned left onto Hillgrove Road, then left onto Alexandra Road, then through width restricting bollards on Dorman Road, riding onto a pedal-cycle path and then back out onto Finchley Road.

'A marked police Scorpion car overtook Khaleghi and indicated for him to pullover and stop. Instead, Khaleghi accelerated away from the officers, discarding his helmet as he did so.

'The helmet was recovered by police. On Avenue Road, Khaleghi rode against oncoming traffic on an opposing carriageway before riding on the pavement, endangering members of the public.

'Another police vehicle safely ended the pursuit by pulling in front of Khaleghi and making tactical contact with his motorcycle to stop it going any further. Taken off his scooter, Khaleghi fled on foot.

'The motorcycle officer managed to spray him with DNA spray, which would assist in proving he was the suspect should he manage to escape and be recaptured at a later date.

'However, he was caught and detained by officers and arrested on suspicion of dangerous driving, failing to stop for police, and driving without insurance. Khaleghi was taken to a north London police station where he was later charged with dangerous driving, failing to stop for a police constable, driving otherwise in accordance with a licence and driving without insurance.'

Over 6,000 new forensic tagging sprays have been handed to local officers on London's streets.

The sprays are used to 'tag' a suspect or suspicious moped without putting the officer at a serious risk of harm.

UV scanners at police stations can then pick up whether an offender has been sprayed- and so they can be linked back to other crimes.

Chief Inspector Jim Corbett said: '6,900 officers have been trained so far. We are going to train everyone.

'If they spray an offender in a location, a custody UV light will pick it up. It's contributing to cutting crime while not putting themselves at risk.'

====== 1783 ========

VIDEO: CARDI B AND OFFSET ARE COURTSIDE FOR ATLANTA HAWKS GAME

Video: Cardi B and Offset are courtside for Atlanta Hawks game

Cardi B and Offset are courtside for Atlanta Hawks game. They show off their lavish wares and complimentary merch in numerous Instagram stories.

====== 1784 ========

CARDI B DONS CHANEL SUIT AND SNACKS ON POPCORN COURTSIDE WITH HUSBAND OFFSET IN ATLANTA

Friday was date night for hip-hop power couple Cardi B and Offset, who sat courtside and watched as the Boston Celtics beat the Atlanta Hawks (114-96) at State Farm Arena in Atlanta.

The Bronx-born 26-year-old paired her flashy manicure and diamond jewelry with a white Chanel mini-skirt suit and black patent leather pumps selected by stylist Kollin Carter.

The two-time Grammy nominee (born Belcalis Almánzar) was fully contoured by her make-up artist Erika La' Pearl Roman, and she wore a handmade platinum blonde bob wig from Tresses X Sandrine.

Hip-hop power couple: Friday was date night for Cardi B and Offset, who sat courtside and watched as the Boston Celtics beat the Atlanta Hawks (114-96) at State Farm Arena in Atlanta

Cardi's 26-year-old husband (born Kiari Cephus) matched her in a Chanel hooded sweater beneath an embellished bomber, silver sneakers, and bling from Eliantte.

Refreshingly down-to-earth as always, the Money hitmaker snacked on popcorn beside the Georgia-born rapper.

Joining the millionaire pair was their homie DJ Mustard as well as his Migos bandmate Quavo.

The former stripper famously wed the Hot Summer star in September 2017 after only seven months of dating.

Street meets sophistication: The Bronx-born 26-year-old paired her flashy manicure and diamond jewelry with a white Chanel mini-skirt suit and black patent leather pumps selected by stylist Kollin Carter

Tongues out! The two-time Grammy nominee was fully contoured by her make-up artist Erika La' Pearl Roman, and she wore a handmade platinum blonde bob wig from Tresses X Sandrine

'Home nothing like home': Cardi's 26-year-old husband matched her in a Chanel hooded sweater beneath an embellished bomber, silver sneakers, and bling from Eliantte

While at the game, Offset showed off the two souvenirs the Atlanta Hawks gifted their baby daughter Kulture Kiari - a #18 jersey and a plush doll of mascot Harry the Hawk.

Cardi - who plans on having two more children - has only shown tiny glimpses of their four-month-old princess, because they're 'scared.'

'There are too many mean people out there,' the talented Latina explained to ET on November 14.

'Sometimes I do want to show people how beautiful and how precious she is. She's so precious. There's a lot of people that have crazy minds, you know. I want to protect her! She's my little buggy.'

Salty treat: Refreshingly down-to-earth as always, the Money hitmaker snacked on popcorn beside the Georgia-born rapper

'It's how we roll': Joining the millionaire pair was their homie DJ Mustard (2-R) as well as his Migos bandmate Quavo (R)

Whirlwind romance: The former stripper famously wed the Hot Summer star in September 2017 after only seven months of dating

The Love & Hip Hop: New York alum was less precious about Kulture on Wednesday when she tweeted: 'I will forever hate changing diapers.'

Offset also fathered three children - twins Kody & Kalea, 3; and Jordan, 7 - from prior relationships.

The Teami partner will next headline the sold out 107.5 WGCI Big Jam happening Saturday night at the United Center in Chicago.

Meanwhile, the fashion-loving father-of-four's two-time Grammy-nominated trio are next scheduled to perform November 30 at Scotiabank Arena in Toronto.

'Another gift for my girl!' While at the game, Offset showed off the two souvenirs the Atlanta Hawks gifted their daughter Kulture Kiari - a #18 jersey and a doll of mascot Harry the Hawk

'I want to protect her!' Cardi - who plans on having two more children - has only shown tiny glimpses of their four-month-old princess, because they're 'scared' (pictured September 2)

The Love & Hip Hop: New York alum was less precious about Kulture on Wednesday when she tweeted: 'I will forever hate changing diapers'

And on December 14, the Ric Flair Drip rapper drops his untitled debut solo album, which Cardi called 'real nikka s***' on Friday.

'I'm talking about relevant situations that have occurred over the last 18 or 24 months, like me being in the crash, my kids, my family time and me being married,' Offset told Billboard on Tuesday.

'There's different parts of my life. The ups and downs of being in music, the feeling of people doubting me and being the underdog to becoming the big dog.'

Ring rapper: The Teami partner will next headline the sold out 107.5 WGCI Big Jam happening Saturday night at the United Center in Chicago (pictured November 15)

Headed to Canada! The fashion-loving father-of-four's Grammy-nominated trio are next scheduled to perform November 30 at Scotiabank Arena in Toronto (pictured November 13)

====== 1785 ========

VIDEO: KELLY CUOCO SHARES VIDEO WITH FAMILY WATCHING A BEAUTIFUL SUNSET

Video: Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

Big Bang Theory actress Kelly Cuoco shares video with family watching a beautiful sunset and a baby seal sleeping on some rocks, which she tried to save .

====== 1786 ========

VIDEO:SYDNEY MAN ACCUSED OF ASSAULTING 19 YEAR OLD WOMAN FOLLOWING CRASH

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1787 ========

MARRIED FATHER ACCUSED OF INDECENTLY ASSAULTING A 19-YEAR-OLD AFTER HELPING FIX HER BROKEN-DOWN CAR

A married father allegedly asked a teenager for sex after helping fix her car, before stalking and trying to grope her, a court has heard.

Kenan Basic, 36, is accused of indecently assaulting the 19-year-old woman after she was in a car crash in Sydney's western suburb of Bankstown on Thursday night.

Parramatta Local Court Magistrate George Zdenkowski denied Basic's bail application on Saturday, to which Basic exclaimed: 'Oh my God … but I didn't do nothing.'

Scroll down for video

A man has been accused of following and indecently assaulting a teenage girl after she declined his alleged demand for sex in exchange for fixing her car

Kenan Basic, 36, allegedly stopped to help the young woman when he saw her in a car crash

The young woman claims the incident took place on Thursday night, in which the unnamed teenager was involved in a car accident in peak-hour traffic, the Daily Telegraph reports.

Approaching the young woman from a nearby BP petrol station, Basic offered to help her with her damaged car, to which she accepted.

CCTV footage shows the pair of them underneath the car, which eventually was fixed.

But when the teenager went to leave, Basic - who has a three-year-old child -allegedly asked for sex in exchange for his help.

The 19-year-old claims Basic tried to fondle her breasts and touch her vagina after he helped her when she was involved in a car crash

She also claims he followed her in his car when she declined his alleged demand for sex

She claims that Basic followed her when she declined his demand for sex.

A short distance later, she was worried her car was overheating and pulled over to the side of the road.

Basic then pulled over behind her and indecently assaulted her, police allege.

According to documents read in court, Basic tried to touch her breasts and vagina before the teen fled in her car.

When she was forced to stop again in heavy traffic, the man tried to get into her car.

She managed to escape and called police, who arrested Basic at his home the next morning.

Basic went to the young woman's aid from a BP service station (pictured) on Thursday night

Facing court on Saturday morning, Basic was charged with two counts of indecent assault, inciting a person to commit an act of indecency and stalking or intimidating with intent to cause a person to fear physical harm.

When his bail was refused and he was ordered to reappear in court, Basic proclaimed his innocence.

His legal counsel said that Basic worked as a casual carpenter and could offer a $2,000 bail, to which Magistrate Zdenkowski refused and told the court there were an 'extremely serious' set of allegations.

Basic will face Bankstown Local Court on Tuesday.

====== 1788 ========

VIDEO: ADORABLE HUSKY LOVES WHEN ITS HUMAN GIVES THEM A 'MAKEOVER'

Video: Adorable husky loves when its human gives them a 'makeover'

This adorable husky loves when its human gives them a 'makeover' and pretends to put on makeup

====== 1789 ========

VIDEO: EVERYONE IS TOLD TO GET TO THE GROUND AFTER SHOTS HEARD IN NJ MALL

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1790 ========

VIDEO: BRILLIANT HACK SHOWS HOW A KEY CAN BE USED ON SUPERMARKET TROLLEYS

Video: Brilliant hack shows how a key can be used on supermarket trolleys

This video shows a genius hack for supermarket trolleys that need a pound coin. One shopper showed how he used a key to to unlock the trolley chain by jamming the circular end into the slot usually reserved for the...

====== 1791 ========

BRITISH MAN REVEALS HACK FOR SUPERMARKET TROLLEYS

With most people going cashless in their everyday lives thanks to contactless payment - what happens when you end up at the supermarket unable to unlock a trolley?

One man who found himself without the pound coin deposit required to secure a cart has discovered a clever hack to solve the problem.

Instead of asking for a coin from his fellow shoppers, he dug around in his coat pocket and produced his house key.

Jamming the circular end into the slot usually reserved for the coin to unlock the trolley chain, he was stunned to find it worked - and posted his success on Reddit.

A man who found himself without the necessary pound coin needed to unlock a supermarket trolley, he used the circular end of his house key in a clever hack

Redditors were blown away by the supermarket hack and congratulated the shopper

'I can't believe this actually worked, didn't have a pound for the trolley so used the end of my key,' he explained, alongside the photographic evidence.

Others were dubious, with one person warning the original poster: 'All well and good till it breaks[sic].'

'This feels high risk to me,' added another to which the original poster replied: 'Yeah I was worried a bit, but it was my backdoor key that doesn't work so it wasn't that bad if it didn't come out.'

Other non-British Redditors ended up slightly confused by the hack, questioning why they would need a pound coin in the first place.

For some US Reddiotrs the idea of having to 'pay' for a shopping trolley was surprising, but a Brit managed to clear up the confusion explaining the idea of the deposit

'Wait what? As an America who popped onto this sub from r/all, you guys have to pay for your shopping carts?'

A Brit kindly explained: 'Its more like a deposit. You put in a pound to take out the chain on it, when you put the chain in you get the pound back.'

A fellow Redditor said they had also discovered the trick, but had managed to 'key themselves' multiple times, with the original poster explaining he turned the key to the side to prevent any injuries.

For regular supermarket shoppers many tend to keep a spare pound coin in their cars or you can purchase a round plastic keyring the exact same shape to slot in to unlock your trolley.

====== 1792 ========

HMS DIAMOND ARRIVES HOME TO PORTSMOUTH IN TIME FOR CHRISTMAS

Video: HMS Diamond arrives home to Portsmouth in time for Christmas

Service personnel on board of the HMS Diamond docked in Portsmouth to warm welcomes from family members and the public. Royal Navy sailors were hugged and kissed by loved ones as they returned to Britain for...

====== 1793 ========

HEART-WARMING MOMENT ROYAL NAVY SAILORS REUNITE WITH LOVED ONES AS TWO SHIPS RETURN FOR CHRISTMAS

Royal Navy sailors were hugged and kissed by loved ones as they returned to Britain for Christmas.

Service personnel on board the HMS Albion and HMS Diamond docked in Plymouth and Portsmouth to warm welcomes from family members and the public.

The country's flagship vessel, HMS Albion heralded its arrival today into Plymouth by making an 11-gun salute.

She received a tumultuous welcome from hundreds of family and friends who greeted her home after a ten-month deployment - just in time for Christmas.

Since she left Devonport in Plymouth, Devon, HMS Albion has steamed 33,004 nautical miles that has taken her through the Mediterranean to the Far East.

Emotional: A officer embraces his son after returning to Portsmouth from HMS Diamond after months away at sea

A sailor on board HMS Albion is welcomed back by his partner to Plymouth as two ships arrived in Britain for Christmas

Welcome back daddy: A sailor embraces his three children in a heart-warming scene after returning to Portsmouth from HMS Diamond

A child waving a Union flag and wearing a medal on his jacket puts up a 'welcome home daddy' poster in eager anticipation of his dad's arrival at from HMS Albion Plymouth

During that time the ship has sailed across the Indian Ocean, South China Sea, North Pacific Ocean, Atlantic, the Arabian Sea and the Mediterranean Sea visiting Vietnam, Singapore, Japan, South Korea and Borneo along the way.

Her homecoming came less than two months after the ship - along with HMS Bulwark - was spared the axe in the latest defence review amid fears she would be scrapped or sold off.

Commanding Officer of HMS Albion, Captain Tim Neild, said: 'It's been a terrific deployment. We've covered a broad range of operations.

'HMS Albion is the Swiss Army knife of UK defence - capable of humanitarian aid right through to whites of the eyes war fighting.

'We couldn't have asked for a better welcome back. We've had an absolutely fabulous ten months but now we can focus on home.'

'We missed you': Crowds gathered in Devonport, Plymouth, to welcome loved ones on board HMS Albion back to Britain

A couple embrace in Devonport, Plymouth, after months apart while the HMS Albion travelled 33,004 nautical miles through the Mediterranean to the Far East

During its time at sea HMS Albion sailed across the Indian Ocean, South China Sea, North Pacific Ocean, Atlantic, the Arabian Sea and the Mediterranean Sea visiting Vietnam, Singapore, Japan, South Korea and Borneo

Sailing home for Christmas: Two children wait for a loved one to arrive of HMS Albion today along with hundreds who also gathered to give them a warm welcome

A sailor embraces his family after returning to Portsmouth from HMS Diamond. Four children wearing Royal Navy jumpers greet their dad today

Royal Navy warship HMS Diamond also returned home to Portsmouth with a bang after two months operating in the Mediterranean.

The Type 45 destroyer fired a 17-gun salute as she sailed back into her home port earlier today.

Her deployment was part of the ongoing counter-ISIS NATO operations where she used her state-of-the-art technology to gather intelligence on the air battlespace, sharing this with the RAF and international allies in the region.

She is one of just several Royal Navy warships to operate in the Eastern Med last year.

As well as the counter-terrorism operations, HMS Diamond also held port visits to Crete, Cyprus, Malta and Gibraltar to reinforce the Royal Navy's long-standing links with those countries.

Commanding Officer of HMS Diamond Commander Ben Keith said: 'This has been a challenging, but extremely rewarding and successful deployment.

'I'm proud of all that my ship's company has achieved while we've been away and I'm incredibly grateful to Diamond's extended family for all their support.'

HMS Diamond also proved her ability to integrate with the UK Air Component Commander (UKACC) by working with the RAF assets based in Cyprus.

Some family members held up pictures of loved ones as waited them to arrive of their vessels, which had been away at sea for months

A sailor and his daughter during the homecoming of HMS Diamond in Portsmouth during emotional scenes after two months operating in the Mediterranean

A couple hug for the first time in months after HMS Albion was operating through the Mediterranean to the Far East

The amphibious assault ship, HMS Albion, left the UK in February her first deployment following a two-year extensive modernisation programme

Aye captain: A sailor called 'Pab' was warned he was about to be 'de-briefed' on his return to British shores after ten months at sea

Training with E3s, Voyagers, Tornados, Typhoons and F-16s, Diamond practiced controlling a congested environment, observing and directing a variety of aircraft while operating with other UK Forces.

During her time in the Med, Diamond also spent a week on weapons and sensors training.

She held live firing exercises with the 4.5' Gun, the 30mm, Phalanx and small arms, using her embarked Wildcat Helicopter from 815 Squadron at RNAS Yeovilton – callsign Roughcut - to observe and direct the firings onto the targets with impressive accuracy.

The amphibious assault ship, HMS Albion, left the UK in February her first deployment following a two-year extensive modernisation programme.

The first part of their deployment was to lead the Standing NATO Maritime Group 2 operating in the Mediterranean.

They were then re-deployed at short notice to go to the Far East demonstrating the Royal Navy's global reach.

Highlights of Albion's ten-month deployment have included a period of two months operating in and around Japan where the two navies had planned a combined amphibious exercise.

They would have deployed their full range of kit - Offshore Raiding Craft, Inflatable Raiding Craft, large and small landing craft, Royal Marines and elements of Japan's Amphibious Rapid Deployment Brigade.

'There they are': A sailor on board HMS Albion spots a family member in the crowd as the ship pulls into the dock after a ten month deployment

HMS Albion received a tumultuous welcome from hundreds of family and friends who greeted her home after a ten-month deployment - just in time for Christmas

Since she left Devonport in Plymouth, Devon, HMS Albion has steamed 33,004 nautical miles that has taken her through the Mediterranean to the Far East

HMS Albion's last act before turning for home was to lead the Royal Navy involvement in the largest military exercise staged in Oman in 17 years, Exercise `Saif Sareea 3', involving 65,000 Omani and more than 5,000 British military personnel, including Royal Marines from 40 Commando

The two navies were thwarted by the arrival of Typhoon Cimaron and although not in the storm's direct path, the planned landings would have been threatened by the weather.

Although the exercise was cancelled the planning represented a significant milestone for relations with the Japanese military.

On departure from Japan their assault ship Shimokita ploughed through the heavy seas alongside Albion saying goodbye with salutes of respect before breaking away while Albion continued on her way to Vietnam.

There were no problems with the weather though when the ship demonstrated their amphibious skills alongside His Majesty the Sultan of Brunei's Forces in Exercise Setia Kawan With HMS Albion poised offshore, Royal Marines supported the Royal Bruneian Special Forces and Infantry in attacking a simulated target from the sea.

With helicopters flying low overhead, Landing Craft from HMS Albion put ashore commandos and Viking armoured vehicles onto the beach The enemy position was rapidly secured in a demo of the close co-operation between Brunei and the UK.

Her last act before turning for home was to lead the Royal Navy involvement in the largest military exercise staged in Oman in 17 years, Exercise `Saif Sareea 3', involving 65,000 Omani and more than 5,000 British military personnel, including Royal Marines from 40 Commando.

Commander Keith, the commanding officer of HMS Diamond greeting his family as he disembarks the ship as it arrives in Portsmouth

Cdr Keith, the CO of HMS Diamond disembarks as the first man off the ship as the ship returns home to Portsmouth

'Welcome home': Crowds wait eagerly for the Royal Navy sailors to disembark from their ships so they came be greeted ashore

A family reunited upon the return of HMS Diamond to Portsmouth after ten months travelling the world's oceans

The exercise marked the culmination of everything Albion has worked towards all year and gave Albion the chance to lead a task group of Royal Navy and Omani warships under the Commander Amphibious Task Group, Commodore James Parkin and his staff.

Defence Secretary Gavin Williamson said: 'HMS Albion and her crew of dedicated Sailors and Royal Marines have led from the front over the past 10 months.

'Her deployment this year, along with HMS Sutherland and HMS Argyll, has meant that the Royal Navy has had a vessel in the strategically critical Asia-Pacific region for the first time since 2013 and has had an almost unbroken presence there this year.

'As we exit the EU, Global Britain will be more outward-looking and engaged on the world stage.

'The Nation's flagship has exemplified what Britain stands for - promoting freedom of navigation, engaging with partners and allies around the world and fulfilling our global defence commitments.

'She provides us with a unique platform from which to project our influence and throughout her service she has delivered time and time again, which is why I committed to protecting both HMS Albion and HMS Bulwark in September.

'Daddy Powis' is welcomed home by loved ones Royal Navy warship HMS Diamond has returned home to Portsmouth with a bang after two months operating in the Mediterranean

John Blandy (centre), grandfather to Oscar (right) and Annabelle (left) Wayfield awaiting the homecoming of HMS Diamond today and showing their support with flags

Crowds gathering for the homecoming of HMS Diamond in Portsmouth, where the Type 45 destroyer fired a 17-gun salute as it came into port

HMS Albion came into her home port earlier today after her deployment as part of the ongoing counter-ISIS NATO operations where she used her state-of-the-art technology to gather intelligence on the air battlespace

'Be it taking part in Saif Sareea 3, our largest exercise in 17 years or supporting UN sanctions in the Pacific this ship and her crew epitomise Britain's global reach.'

It was a poignant moment for Captain Tim Neild as he guided the ship into the Plymouth for the last time.

He will hand over his command in January moving on to pastures new.

He added: 'During the past ten months HMS Albion has upheld the United Kingdom's commitment to Peace, Security, and Prosperity throughout the Asia Pacific and Middle East.

'I am immensely proud of my 500 Sailors and Marines who have delivered success on operations with trademark professionalism, upholding the Rules Based International System.

'I'd also like to pay tribute to our families back home.

'They provide us with some fantastic support which enables us to focus on our jobs.'

====== 1794 ========

VIDEO: 'LAST QUEUE' TRAILS OUT OF DR. MARTENS LONDON STORE ON BLACK FRIDAY

Video: 'Last queue' trails out of Dr. Martens London store on Black Friday

This footage shows the 'last queue' snaking its way out the door of a Dr. Martens store in London as Black Friday comes to a close. A number of shoppers gathered at the Oxford Street shop to take advantage of the...

====== 1795 ========

BLACK FRIDAY KICKS OFF £7BILLION SHOPPING WEEKEND WITH SALE UP 55%

Online stores were the main beneficiaries of the Black Friday sales splurge yesterday in a trend that piles more pressure on struggling high streets.

Bargain-hungry Brits sent online Black Friday sales soaring by 47 per cent compared to last year and are set to spend another £6billion between now and 'Cyber Monday'.

Websites including John Lewis crashed under the demand while Amazon reported that 100,000 toys and 60,000 beauty items had been sold by mid-morning.

Meanwhile Currys PC World said it had seen three orders per second, with best selling items including the Nintendo Switch games console.

In the shopping frenzy Barclaycard processed a record 1,087 transactions per second between 1pm and 2pm, breaking the previous record of 1,056 set the previous hour.

But while some shoppers braved near-freezing conditions on Friday morning and others sought discounts late in the evening in Oxford Street, footfall was down seven per cent compared to last year.

The drop came as a YouGov survey found almost one in five millennials admit to 'ghost buying' on Black Friday, whereby they visit shops to view a product before purchasing it online while still stood in the store.

Scroll down for video

Shoppers on Oxford Street in central London on Friday as Britons continued their spending spree into the evening. However footfall fell in some shopping centres with many customers choosing to find bargains online instead

Shoppers queue late into the night outside the Dr Martens shop on Oxford Street for Black Friday sales in central London

Oxford Street remained full of shoppers late into the night for Black Friday sales with customers outside Topshop last night

London's Oxford Street is packed with shoppers looking to get a bargain on Black Friday, with Britons expected to spend somewhere in the region of £2.5billion in one day

The John Lewis website was among those to go down on Black Friday as online sales rocketed while high streets struggled

Shoppers battle to find the best deals at the Bullring shopping centre in Birmingham, which had a slow start to the day before business picked up later in the morning

Some decided to brave the near-freezing conditions this morning to get to the front of queues outside stores in a bid to beat others to the biggest discounts, before business picked up at shopping centres by the afternoon (shown, Oxford Street)

Black Friday shoppers in Glasgow, Scotland, making the most of deals although many will shop online or on their mobile phones rather than visit the high street, forecasters said

Shoppers in Birmingham browse the deals as a survey finds that almost one in five millennials admit to 'ghost buying' on Black Friday, whereby they visit shops in the city centre to view a product before purchasing it online

Bargain-hungry Brits have ditched the high street (such as Manchester, pictured) for online shopping this morning as Black Friday deals saw customers splurge millions of pounds on the internet

Shoppers leave Currys PC World store armed with TVs at the Silverlink shopping centre in North Shields, North Tyneside as Black Friday frenzy strikes Britain again

Oxford Street in London finally picked up around midday, with shoppers coming out in their droves to make the most of Black Friday deals

Crowds finally begin to pack out the Bullring shopping centre in Birmingham this afternoon, following a slow start to proceedings as many shoppers decided to go online to find a deal

A shop front displays its Black Friday sales in Oxford Circus as crowds pick up following a slow start on the high street this morning

Shoppers (such as those pictured on Oxford Street, London) will splurge somewhere in the region of £2.5billion today, on what is the biggest day of the year for most retailers

Barclaycard reported a 16 per cent increase in the number of payment transactions compared to Black Friday last year, but a 21 per cent drop in the amount spent.

Purchases made on the internet are expected to value more than £1billion for Black Friday alone, which would signify a 196 per cent increase since 2013, according to data from the Centre for Retail Research.

Spending on mobile dominated this morning, with such devices accounting for 75 per cent of all traffic as commuters made their way into work.

Desktop spending peaked between 9am and 10am as people began browsing from their desks.

Millennials hurting the high street with 'ghost buying', survey finds One in five Millennials admit they've bagged a bargain online while still inside a traditional high street store, a survey has revealed. The tech savvy Under 25 shoppers find what they like during a visit to the high street and then order the same product on-line, sometimes while still in the retail store. This new trend - dubbed by industry experts as 'ghost shopping' - will come as another blow to high street stores in a turbulent year for traditional retailers. Many traditional retailers struggle to compete with on-line outlets because they have higher operating costs for rent, rates and wages. The online YouGov research on shopping habits around Black Friday and Cyber Monday found that 18 per cent of 18-24-year-olds will find a product in store and buy it online while still in the store. Overall, one in 10 across all age ranges surveyed admitted they had Ghost Shopped while visiting high street stores. Helen Murray, of Webhelp, which carried out the survey, said: 'You could call it a form of window shopping, but now people are using the entire retail outlet as the window before they buy online.'

Amazon, which has hired thousands of seasonal workers for the festive period, reported that 100,000 toys and 60,000 beauty items had been sold by mid-morning on Friday, according to CNBC.

However many shoppers chose the comfort of shopping from their own homes or work desks, with online transactions up by nearly half compared to last year as of 1pm this afternoon, according to tech firm Loqate.

Footfall was down seven per cent at 1pm on Friday compared to last year, according to the editor of Retail Week. Shopping centres have taken the worst hit, with a drop of 9.1 per cent.

Shoppers are expected to part with £13.4million every minute on everything from clothing to cosmetics on Black Friday, while over the weekend that figure will top £7billion, an average of £234 each for every Brit.

Following from the launch of its Black Friday deals this morning, Currys PC World has seen three orders per second, with the Nintendo Switch and Samsung Galaxy Tab A its best-selling items.

The firm said it had seen a 623 per cent increase in computing sales on 2017's figures, and 61 per cent of their online purchases were made via mobile devices.

Carphone Warehouse said it received 14 orders per minute on its site, with the Samsung Galaxy S9 and Apple iPhone XR being the most popular items.

John Lewis said it received the bulk of its traffic between 6am and 7am, with shoppers keen to get their hands on reduced goods such as the Apple Airpods and the Applewatch series 3.

Some retailers have decided to opt out of Black Friday this year, including Marks & Spencer.

Meanwhile, an investigation by consumer group Which? found nine out of 10 Black Friday deals they investigated could be purchased for the same, or a cheaper price, at different times of the year.

Committed bargain hunters flocked to the technology aisle of Tesco this morning to snap up Xboxes - but had to battle because only six were left.

Shoppers queued up at 5am outside the store in Kingston Park, Newcastle, to get the best Black Friday deals.

Other offers throughout the store did not receive the same frenzied treatment and aisles filled with deals on items such as luggage were left largely empty.

Bargain hunters seemed to be able to browse and place items such as televisions in their trolleys with relative ease - a different scene from previous Black Fridays which have seen shoppers come to blows.

One onlooker said: 'Almost all of the people bypassed the flagged up deals and headed straight for the Xbox section. There was some frantic grabbing for the Xbox deals.

'Overall though, everyone was quite polite, there was no scrapping and people were milling around looking at the other offers.'

Some of the best deals had already sold out before much of the UK had even woken up this morning, with retailers starting their offers overnight.

More than two fifths of Britons are planning to spend in the Black Friday sales today amid warnings not to 'get carried away by the hype'.

A couple cannot hide their glee after securing a 49 inch TV at a Tesco in Newcastle. Britons are predicted to spend £2.44billion in the Black Friday sales today, as shoppers battle it for cut-price TVs and electrical goods

People queue up at the HMV store before the opening during the Black Friday sales in Oxford Street in London this morning

There were some early-morning Black Friday shoppers battling for deals first thing today, as shown in Newcastle at a Tesco, shortly after it opened its doors at 5am

Online shoppers boasted on social media about the purchases they had made on Black Friday, during which Brits are expected to splurge £2.5billion

Shoppers in Birmingham enjoy the first of a four-day weekend in which retailers slash prices in a bid to tempt customers into spending ahead of Christmas

Bargain hunters who headed straight to the electronics aisle at Tesco in Newcastle this morning to buy an Xbox were left disappointed when it appeared only six games were on sale

One shopper at Liverpool's ONE shopping centre takes a break after walking away with plenty of deals on Black Friday this morning

Amazon workers protest over working conditions to disrupt Black Friday Some of Amazon's workers in Europe are protesting against what they call unfair work conditions, in a move meant to disrupt operations on Black Friday. Amazon Spain said around 90 percent of workers at a logistics depot in near Madrid joined the walkout Friday. Only two people were at the loading bay, spokesman Douglas Harper said. However, he said Amazon had diverted cargo deliveries to its other 22 depots in the country. A member of GMB, the union for Amazon workers, stages a protest at the Amazon Swansea fulfillment centre Meanwhile, unions in Britain will stage protests at five sites to complain about safety conditions. Amazon said the safety record at its warehouses is above the industry average. Protests were also reported or due in France and Germany. While Black Friday discounts have traditionally been a U.S. retail event, companies have increasingly been offering discounts in other countries, too. Members and supporters of the GMB union protest outside the Amazon offices in Milton Keynes

Some 42 per cent of Britons are looking forward to the event, and 22 per cent are specifically looking to buy Christmas presents - while 25 per cent are intending to shop on Cyber Monday, a survey by KPMG suggests.

Paul Martin, UK head of retail at KPMG, said: 'Retail performance throughout the year has been dreary to say the least, and we've certainly had a shaky start to the all-important 'golden quarter'.

'Retailers will naturally be keen to make the most of these events, and our survey would certainly suggest that consumers are gearing up for it.'

However, consumer group Which? said its over-arching message to shoppers this year was to not feel pressured into spending after finding that nine in 10 Black Friday deals last year were the same price or even cheaper at other times of the year.

It has urged consumers to be careful not to buy on impulse and instead research products and prices before spending in the sale.

Alex Neill, Which? managing director of home products and services, said: 'While retailers are bombarding us with promises of great discounts and time-limited sales, it's clear that not all deals are as good as they might appear.

'To bag a bargain, do your research and don't get carried away by the hype when shopping in the upcoming sales.'

Early indications suggest that Black Friday spending will dip for the first time this year since its arrival in the UK.

Consumers will spend £2.4billion on deals in stores and online, down from last year's £2.6billion, according to the predictions from the Centre for Retail Research (CRR) and VoucherCodes.co.uk.

Analyst Springboard has also said footfall and spending activity over this year's Black Friday period is likely to be affected by economic pressures such as high debt levels and significant living costs, compounded by the event taking place a week earlier this year - before many consumers are paid for the month.

According to KPMG's study, the promotional period is favoured by younger consumers, with 75 per cent of shoppers aged 18 to 24 saying they will be taking advantage of deals compared to 36 per cent of 45 to 54 year olds, and just 24 per cent of over 55s.

Mr Martin added: 'Many shoppers are likely to recall how the slashed pricing in store resulted in stampedes, which is just not what mature consumers seek out.

'Since Black Friday was adopted by Britons back in 2013, retailers have increasingly moved offers online, and that coincidentally is where a higher proportion of younger consumers can be found.'

People queue up outside Foot Locker before opening during the Black Friday sales in Oxford Street, London this morning

Early-morning risers queue outside Foot Locker in Birmingham's main shopping centre, the Bullring, which is set for an incredibly busy day

Shoppers are taking advantage of the annual Black Friday sales early this morning, with this couple pictured walking out of the Tesco Extra store in Gorton, Manchester

Thousands braved the near-freezing conditions overnight to queue outside stores up and down the country, including Tesco in Newcastle, to beat other shoppers to the biggest discounts

Eager bargain hunters wait in the near-freezing conditions in Gorton, Manchester for Tesco Extra to open ahead of a busy day of Black Friday madness

Tips on staying safe from cyber chiefs GCHQ's National Cyber Security Centre technical director Ian Levy gives some tips on how to shop safely on the web during Black Friday: What passwords or security questions should I use? Dr Levy said: 'Don't give them your mother's maiden name. Give them the name of your first cat. 'If it's a criminal and they try and use your first cat's name as your mother's maiden name they are not going to get very far.' Check out as a guest where possible Dr Levy said: 'Try not to make an account. Unless you have to give a retailer all your personal information I wouldn't, because if they are not holding it, the next time they are breached they can't lose your data.' Feeling suspicious? Dr Levy said: 'You can check if your account has been compromised in a data beach at haveibeenpwned.com.

Amazon, together with Debenhams, House of Fraser, Argos and many others have been running sales all this week with plans to step up the discounts today, promising savings of 60 per cent.

The quiet high streets came as industry figures warned that the US retail import was not necessarily the best for businesses, or consumers.

Richard Hyman, a retail industry adviser, said the concept of Black Friday was 'bonkers' for UK retailers, adding: 'The whole thing is smoke and mirrors.'

Mr Hyman said: 'It's encouraging people to buy at a discount when most retailers are not structured to sell at a discount.

'Black Friday sucks business forward from Christmas at a discounted margin, it's really not very clever.'

This leaves businesses with few options, he added.

'Do you discount regular products that hit your margins, or do you buy in special products to mitigate that hit?'

Those special products, he added, were 'bound to be inferior'.

'Most retailers, I would say, would really rather not do it if they felt they could,' he said.

Some retailers have decided to opt out of Black Friday this year, including Marks & Spencer.

Meanwhile, an investigation by consumer group Which? found nine out of 10 Black Friday deals they investigated could be purchased for the same, or a cheaper price, at different times of the year.

A shopper heads back home after a particularly early start this morning to pick up a new television from Tesco Extra in Gorton, Manchester

Stacked televisions are pictured ahead of doors opening at a Tesco in Newcastle. Britain's retailers are hoping Black Friday discounts will get shoppers spending again after a torrid year for much of the sector

Shoppers eagerly await entry to the Tesco Extra store in Gorton, Manchester. According to researcher Springboard, footfall on the main shopping streets is anticipated to drop versus 2017, while online transactions are forecast to rise

Some of the best deals had already sold out before much of the UK had even woken up this morning, with retailers starting their offers overnight (electronics retailer GAME was already sold out of its Nintendo Switch and two game deal this morning)

Bargain-hungry Brits leave a Tesco in Manchester with a new TV. The country is set to spend £2.44billion in the Black Friday sales today, as shoppers battle it for cut-price TVs and electrical goods online

A father and son leave Tesco in Birmingham with a new television in tow following an early start this morning, as thousands of shoppers hoped to beat the crowds normally associated with Black Friday

The event has proved to be a curse for many retailers, given angry crowd scenes in past years and the fact that the price cuts savage potential profits during a crucial sales period

Cyber security chiefs at GCHQ have also advised shoppers to be wary of risks and to take precautions when buying online, such as using the guest checkout and having a separate 'super-protected' password for your email account.

Despite the usual buzz around the shopping event, research also suggested shoppers' interest in Black Friday may be plateauing.

Almost two-thirds of the 2,000 UK adults polled by technology provider Aptos said they 'don't wait for deal days' to make purchases, with more than half saying they 'don't trust retailers' to provide the best deals.

What is Black Friday and where exactly does it come from? The term was apparently first coined by the police in Philadelphia, United States in the Fifties. The Friday after Thanksgiving was always a busy one as shoppers and tourists flocked to the city ahead of a big football game that took place on the Saturday. The ensuing crowds, traffic and trouble meant all police leave was banned, and everyone had to work longer shifts than usual. An urban legend grew up around the term, suggesting that it was on the Friday after Thanksgiving that — thanks to shoppers scooping up so many bargains — shopkeepers who had spent all year in debt (or 'in the red') went into the black. But it wasn't until 2010, when American-owned started offering Black Friday deals to British customers, that we got a taste of it. Things escalated in 2013 when Asda, owned by American retail giant took part and, over the past five years, more and more retailers have joined in.

A PwC survey also revealed the buzz around Black Friday deals may have depleted both in store and online. The average shopper, they anticipated, would splash £234 over the weekend, the same amount as 2017.

Half of the 2,000 UK adults PwC surveyed said they were not interested in Black Friday sales, and 11% would intentionally avoid stores.

Retailer group The New West End Company, which represents three key shopping streets in central London, predicted the same turnover as 2017, £150 million, across the 2018 Black Friday weekend.

Generally, internet shopping accounts for just under 20 per cent of retail spending, however it soars to more than 40 per cent for Black Friday and through the weekend to Cyber Monday

John Lewis is running its own deals across the store, as well as price matching reductions made by rivals, and eBay expects around 100million visits to its UK site over the next four days.

Gap is being particularly aggressive with a blanket reduction of 40 per cent plus a bonus saving of an extra 25 per cent off anything that is already in its sale.

Over two fifths - 42per cent - of Britons are planning to make Black Friday event purchases, according to research by accountants KPMG.

Its UK head of retail, Paul Martin, said: 'Retailers will naturally be keen to make the most of these events, and our survey would certainly suggest that consumers are gearing up for it.

'Of course Black Friday's deep discounting does offer a key time for consumers to treat themselves.

'Our findings highlight that the promotional period is favoured by younger consumers, with 75 per cent of people aged 18 to 24 saying they'll be shopping during Black Friday, compared to just 36 per cent of 45 to 54-year-olds, and just 24 per cent of those over the age of 55.

He added: 'It's unsurprising that younger generations are most excited by retail events like Black Friday. Many shoppers are likely to recall how the slashed pricing in store resulted in stampedes, which is just not what mature consumers seek out.

'Since Black Friday was adopted by Brits back in 2013, retailers have increasingly moved offers online, and that coincidently is where a higher proportion of younger consumers can be found.'

Respected retail analyst Richard Hyman said many retailers feel forced to take part in Black Friday for fear of missing out on a share on the nation's festive spending.

The traditional Black Friday rush wasn't felt everywhere, however (pictured is Bluewater shopping centre in Kent). Forecasters have predicted a dip in sales in stores with big profits being made online this year

Pictured is a deserted car park at Bluewater shopping centre this morning in Kent, with the cold and rainy weather no doubt playing a part in customers deciding to shop online instead

A mostly empty Oxford Street in London this morning, with shoppers happy to chance their arm with online deals this year

It was the same story at Leeds shopping centre, which was almost completely empty of shoppers at about 8.30am this morning

Glasgow city centre was practically devoid of early-morning shoppers today, with forecasters predicting that the majority of sales would come from online buyers

London's Carnaby Street awaits the Black Friday rush this morning, amid a bleak start to sales on the high street across the UK

Despite promises that this year could be one of the biggest ever for retailers, the Black Friday buzz failed to catch on in city centres this morning

Photos from the Bullring shopping centre in Birmingham showed how many local shoppers favoured online browsing as opposed to braving the cold first thing this morning

A solitary shopper waits patiently outside the Next store at the Bullring shopping centre in Birmingham as Black Friday fails to catch fire on the high street this morning

Stores in Oxford Street (shown) were dead this morning, but shoppers are still expected to part with an average of £2.95million every minute on everything from cut price TVs and electricals to clothing and cosmetics

Black Friday is FINALLY here! Shopping bonanza continues with even MORE cut-price deals on everything from clothing to tech - and we reveal the best bargains on offer

It may feel as if Black Friday has already being going on forever, but after a week of early deals the big day is finally here - with some attractive options for bargain hunters on the high street.

While some retailers launched their deals as early as a week ago, others have held off until today meaning there's plenty to tempt shoppers who feel they haven't spotted anything that takes their fancy just yet.

And according to retail sales aggregator LovetheSales.com, this is set to be a bumper year for customers in search of a deal.

A massive 42 per cent of stock across 950 retailers is currently discounted, and last night alone 154,000 extra products were added. The discounts are better too, at an average of 37 per cent, compared with 33 per cent last year and 30 per cent in 2016.

Whether you're after new home appliances, a mobile phone upgrade or some pampering beauty and grooming products, here we reveal some of the best deals on the high street.

BEAUTY & GROOMING

WOMEN'S FASHION

FOR THE HOME

FOR HIM

Let's get ready to RUMBLE! Twitter users snipe and despair at Black Friday madness as bargain hunters battle for deals online and in stores across UK

Social media is awash with memes, outrage and excitement today as Black Friday frenzy sweeps the UK.

Shoppers up and down the country have been sent into a frenzy as they sharpen their elbows and scramble to snap up bargains.

And they are taking to Twitter to flaunt their bargains and joke about their suffering bank balances amid millions being spend on the High Street and online.

More than two fifths of Britons are planning to spend in the Black Friday sales today amid warnings not to 'get carried away by the hype'.

Some 42 per cent of Britons are looking forward to the event, and 22 per cent are specifically looking to buy Christmas presents - while 25 per cent are intending to shop on Cyber Monday, a survey by KPMG suggests.

Black Friday fever has swept the nation this morning, as bargain hunters sharpen their elbows to snap up discounted goods

Paul Martin, UK head of retail at KPMG, said: 'Retail performance throughout the year has been dreary to say the least, and we've certainly had a shaky start to the all-important 'golden quarter'.

'Retailers will naturally be keen to make the most of these events, and our survey would certainly suggest that consumers are gearing up for it.'

However, consumer group Which? said its over-arching message to shoppers this year was to not feel pressured into spending after finding that nine in 10 Black Friday deals last year were the same price or even cheaper at other times of the year.

It has urged consumers to be careful not to buy on impulse and instead research products and prices before spending in the sale.

Alex Neill, Which? managing director of home products and services, said: 'While retailers are bombarding us with promises of great discounts and time-limited sales, it's clear that not all deals are as good as they might appear.

'To bag a bargain, do your research and don't get carried away by the hype when shopping in the upcoming sales.'

Early indications suggest that Black Friday spending will dip for the first time this year since its arrival in the UK.

Consumers will spend £2.4 billion on deals in stores and online, down from last year's £2.6 billion, according to the predictions from the Centre for Retail Research (CRR) and VoucherCodes.co.uk.

Analyst Springboard has also said footfall and spending activity over this year's Black Friday period is likely to be affected by economic pressures such as high debt levels and significant living costs, compounded by the event taking place a week earlier this year - before many consumers are paid for the month.

According to KPMG's study, the promotional period is favoured by younger consumers, with 75 per cent of shoppers aged 18 to 24 saying they will be taking advantage of deals compared to 36 per cent of 45 to 54 year olds, and just 24 per cent of over 55s.

Mr Martin added: 'Many shoppers are likely to recall how the slashed pricing in store resulted in stampedes, which is just not what mature consumers seek out.

'Since Black Friday was adopted by Britons back in 2013, retailers have increasingly moved offers online, and that coincidentally is where a higher proportion of younger consumers can be found.'





====== 1796 ========

VIDEO:DEBORRA-LEE FURNESS ENCOURAGES PEOPLE TO SUPPORT ADOPT CHANGE

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1797 ========

DEBORRA-LEE FURNESS ENCOURAGES PEOPLE TO SUPPORT ADOPT CHANGE

She's the founder of National Adoption Awareness Week which hosts an annual event in November.

And Deborra-lee Furness, along with Nicole Warne, encouraged Australians to support their work in creating a permanent home for every child, in an official video.

The clip was featured during the A Home For Every Child Gala fundraising dinner, in Sydney on Friday night, where Channel Ten's Sandra Sully acted as MC.

'Let's create a home for every child': Deborra-lee Furness (pictured right alongside Nicole Warne) encouraged Australians to lend their support to Adopt Change, as stars including Sandra Sully attended a fundraiser gala in Sydney on Friday

In the video, Deborra-lee and Nicole don black attire, including a cap with the text A Home For Every Child, which can be purchased via the Adopt Change website.

Deborra-lee, 62, says in the short clip taken in New York: 'Join us in turning November into Yes-vember, and support our work in creating a home for every child.'

National Adoption Awareness Week, which was founded by the actress in 2008, has become an annual event each November.

Worthy cause: In the video, Deborra-lee and Nicole don black attire, including a cap with the text A Home For Every Child, which can be purchased via the Adopt Change website

Household name: The video was run at the A Home For Every Child Gala fundraising dinner at Sydney's Ivy Ballroom on Friday night, hosted by Channel Ten's Sandra Sully (pictured), 53

Leading ladies: Gina Rinehart (centre), 64, posed for a photo with Renee Carter, CEO Adopt Change (left) and Catherine McDonnell, Chair Adopt Change (right)

In 2018 it has evolved from a week to a month, with Adopt Change inviting all Australians to say 'yes' to #AHomeForEveryChild, ensuring all children have access to a safe, nurturing and permanent home.

Slogan caps can be purchased, and supporters are encouraged to take a photo sporting the hat, or record a short clip talking about what home means to them.

The video was run at the A Home For Every Child Gala fundraising dinner at Sydney's Ivy Ballroom on Friday night.

Glamorous: Fashion and celebrity stylist Lana Wilkinson stunned in a gold fringed frock with a plunging neckline

Their polished best: Minister Pru Goward (right), 66, is pictured with Anne King

Power couple: Politician Paul Green, 52, embraced wife Michelle Green in front of the media wall

The event was hosted by Channel Ten's Sandra Sully and saw other notables including Gina Rinehart and Catherine McDonnell in attendance.

Sandra, 53, stunned in a black abstract maxi-dress that revealed her delicate décolletage and toned arms, accessorised with black pointy-toe heels and jewels.

Australian magnate Gina Rinehart, 64, who is executive chairman of the Hancock Prospecting Group, wore a vibrant pink high-neck frock with a dramatic train.

Gina said she is delighted to lend her support to a number of very worthy philanthropic efforts across Australia, including the work of Adopt Change.

Gina hopes more vulnerable children can have access to stable and safe homes, with good nutrition, clothes and opportunities.

Picture-perfect: Fox Sports Presenter Louise Ransome dazzled in a purple silk number, alongside partner Richard Bayliss

====== 1798 ========

VIDEO:PARIS HILTON SAYS THAT SHE WAS PAID TO PARTY IN HER EARLY YEARS

Video: Paris Hilton says that she was paid to party in her early years

Paris Hilton says that she was paid to attend parties when she was younger.

====== 1799 ========

VIDEO: DAVID GUETTA'S FRIENDS THROW HIM A SURPRISE 51ST BIRTHDAY PARTY

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1800 ========

VIDEO:PARIS HILTON SAYS SHE IS KEEN TO START A FAMILY ONE DAY

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1801 ========

PARIS HILTON TALKS ABOUT WANTING TO START A FAMILY... DAYS AFTER SPLITTING FROM FIANCE CHRIS ZYLKA

She's newly single, but Paris Hilton says she'd still like to have children one day.

Speaking to Today on Saturday, the 37-year-old heiress and businesswoman said she hopes to become a mum in the future.

'I would love that one day,' she told the program.

'I would love that one day': Paris Hilton (pictured) talked about wanting to start a family on Saturday... just days after announcing her split from fiancé Chris Zylka

'I'm so busy, I'm literally in a different country almost every other day, so I really don't have time for a family right now, but eventually, I would love that.'

It's not the first time Paris has spoken about wanting children.

In an interview with People back in April, the star said she was looking forward to having kids of her own some day.

Future plans: Speaking to Today on Saturday, the 37-year-old heiress and businesswoman said she hopes to become a mum some day

'I loved growing up in a big family with four kids, with two brothers and a sister. I want at least two,' she told the publication.

And in a 2017 interview with E! News, Paris' sister, Nicky Hilton Rothschild, 35, boasted about the star being a great aunt to her two children, Lily Grace, two, and Teddy, 11 months.

'Whenever she comes over, she comes bearing sweet gifts, clothing, toys, dolls,' Nicky told the publication.

Sister act: Paris' sister, Nicky Hilton Rothschild (right) has boasted about the star being a great aunt to her two children, Lily Grace, two, and Teddy, 11 months

'So Lily Grace gets very excited when Auntie Paris walks in the door.'

Paris announced her split from fiancé Chris Zylka earlier in the week after getting engaged to the 33-year-old actor in January during a holiday to Aspen, as reported by TMZ.

Speaking indirectly about the break up, Paris took to Instagram shortly after news broke to make a somewhat cryptic statement.

Over: Paris announced her split from fiance Chris Zylka (pictured) earlier in the week after getting engaged to the 33-year-old actor in January

'My favorite Marilyn Monroe quote: "I believe that everything happens for a reason. People change so that you can learn to let go. Things go wrong so that you appreciate them when they're right. You believe lies so you eventually learn to trust no one but yourself. And sometimes good things fall apart so better things can fall together,"' Paris wrote.

====== 1802 ========

VIDEO: KYLIE JENNER 'CAVES' & BUYS THE LAMBORGHINI URUS ON BLACK FRIDAY

Video: Kylie Jenner 'caves' & buys the Lamborghini Urus on Black Friday

Kylie Jenner 'caves' and purchases a bright red Lamborghini Urus SUV on Black Friday 2018. The URUS is considered the fastest SUV in the world maxing out at 190 MPH. Kylie referred to the vehicle as a 'truck.'

====== 1803 ========

VIDEO: PEP TALKS CONTRACTS AND GIVES TEAM NEWS AHEAD OF WEST HAM GAME

Video: Pep talks contracts and gives team news ahead of West Ham game

Manchester City coach, Pep Guardiola, Pep talks contracts and gives team news ahead of West Ham Premier League clash at the London Stadium, as Bernardo Silva will miss out and Phil Foden may be handed a chance.

====== 1804 ========

PEP GUARDIOLA OPENS THE DOOR TO EXTENDING HIS STAY AT MANCHESTER CITY

Pep Guardiola has opened the door to further extending his stay at Manchester City.

The City manager signed a new contract running until 2021 in May after breaking countless records in their Premier League title victory.

Guardiola has always maintained he fancies a move into international management in the future and reiterated that during a lecture at the University of Liverpool this week.

Pep Guardiola has hinted that he could stay at Manchester City beyond the end of his contract

Guardiola has always maintained he fancies a move into international management in future

Season at a glance Live tables

Fixtures

Scores Premier League

Premier League

Championship

League One

League Two

Scottish Premiership

Scottish Div 1

Scottish Div 2

Scottish Div 3

Ligue 1

Serie A

La Liga

Bundesliga





The Spaniard has now, however, suggested he could stay at the Etihad for more than five years.

'If it's going well I'll stay more years here,' Guardiola said. 'When I was a little boy I had dreams, some were accomplished, some not.

'Maybe in the future I'll do international management. Maybe I'll change my mind and I'm fully committed to my job here.'

Guardiola is already set to beat his stays at Barcelona and Bayern Munich, standing at four years and three years respectively.

He also poured scorn on suggestions that this season is two-horse race between the champions and Jurgen Klopp's Liverpool.

'We are two points in front of the second one and four points in front of the third,' he added.

'It's nothing. We are satisifed that last year we got 100 points and a lot of nice words but we are still focused every day.

'That is why I am proud. Liverpool, Tottenham and Chelsea - and we are there. That speaks for how good these guys are.

'We could continue that level and not win the title. I always say try to have no regrets. It is the most competitive league in the world. We compete like we did in that first training session, since them we are there.'

Guardiola is already set to beat his stays at previous clubs Barcelona and Bayern Munich

====== 1805 ========

VIDEO: ASHLEY COLE: RAHEEM STERLING REMINDS ME OF WHAT I WENT THROUGH

Video: Ashley Cole: Raheem Sterling reminds me of what I went through

Ashley Cole has said that fellow player Raheem Sterling's relationship with the media reminds him of what he went through earlier in his career. The England legend suffered from negative press coverage after moving...

====== 1806 ========

ASHLEY COLE OPENS UP ON BEING BOOED WHILE PLAYING FOR ENGLAND

Ashley Cole feels that Raheem Sterling is being targeted for abuse while on England duty because of his skin colour.

Speaking in ITV’s new documentary Out Of Their Skin, which charts the last 40 years of black players in the national team and airs on ITV4 at 10pm this Tuesday and Wednesday, Cole also revealed how the booing he received during an England game in 2008 made him want to quit internationals because he felt his country 'didn't care' about him.

But he suggested there is a 'different agenda' with Sterling, saying the only reason he sees Sterling might be targeted is his skin colour.

Ashley Cole has given an interview for ITV's new documentary Out Of Their Skin

Raheem Sterling is being targeted for abuse while on England duty, claims Cole

Cole says Sterling is being targeted because of the colour of his skin; he also revealed how he wanted to quit England in 2008 after being booed during an international match

Recalling a World Cup ­qualifier against ­Kazakhstan in 2008, during which he was repeatedly booed despite England winning 5-1, Cole revealed that the abuse from fans made him want to quit the national team.

'I was like, "Woah, is that really for me? For giving the ball away?",' he said. 'At the time I thought, "I'm done". Why am I gonna try to give my all to help a country that didn't care? For me, it wasn't football. That's why I wanted to stop.'

Cole, now 37 and playing at left back for LA Galaxy, became an unpopular figure for many football fans following his controversial move to Chelsea from Arsenal in 2006, after which he revealed that he almost 'swerved off the road' when he heard about a £55,000-a-week contract offer from the Gunners, which he saw as 'taking the p***'. He also had a high-profile marriage to pop star Cheryl, which ended in 2010.

He told ITV: 'When I left Arsenal, that whole situation, I got the name of "Cashley". And of course with the stuff off the field, in my private life. I was their guy at the time.'

But Cole says the booing Sterling receives is due to a different reason.

'I don't see it going on with anyone else apart [from] with Raheem. There's a different agenda to that I feel.

'There's nothing else left apart from his colour. His skin colour.'

Now 37, Cole still plays for LA Galaxy and says playing for England was his greatest honour

Cole lives in Los Angeles with his girlfriend, Sharon Canu, and their young son

Cole says being booed made him want to quit England - thankfully he didn't and went on to win 107 caps, retiring from internationals in 2014 as the first black player to reach a century for the Three Lions.

Cole also expressed his great pride in playing for England, saying it was his greatest honour and that he misses it 'every day'. He also hopes he will be an inspiration for others to follow.

'I’ve not just played for England,' he said. 'I’ve done it for all the black players out there - to prove that they can do it.

'I’ve played 100 caps for England, for my country. Being the first black player, I think, is amazing. I’ve ­represented my country and played in major tournaments. I’ve never let the country down in terms of playing. One hundred caps is No 1, playing for your country. I miss it to this day.'

====== 1807 ========

VIDEO: FOOTBALL LEGEND ASHLEY COLE SAYS HE REGRETS RETIRING FROM ENGLAND

Video: Football legend Ashley Cole says he regrets retiring from England

In a new interview for ITV4 documentary series Out Of Their Skin, Ashley Cole has revealed he misses wearing the England shirt and shouldn’t have retired. The Three Lions legend won 107 caps for his country before...

====== 1808 ========

VIDEO: CARLOS TEVEZ HUGS FAN WHO INVADED PITCH DURING TRAINING SESSION

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1809 ========

CARLOS TEVEZ IS HUGGED BY A PITCH INVADER AS BOCA JUNIORS TRAIN FOR RIVER PLATE SHOWDOWN

Carlos Tevez received a hug from a pitch invader as Boca Juniors filled out their famous La Bombonera stadium for a chaotic open training session ahead of Saturday's showdown with great rivals River Plate.

The two Buenos Aires-based teams will go head-to-head in the second leg of their Copa Libertadores final at River's Monumental stadium after drawing the first leg 2-2.

And the scale of the upcoming 'Superclasico' was clear to see as Boca held a special session in front of a capacity crowd on Thursday evening.

Carlos Tevez is hugged by a pitch invader during Boca Juniors' open training session

Tevez helps escort the supporter off the pitch as armed guards follow behind

Boca fans filled their famous stadium ahead of Saturday's huge clash with River Plate

The club was even forced to close the doors to the ground to avoid overcrowding as thousands flooded into the 49,000-seat arena.

For many years club members were the only Boca fans permitted to attend La Bombonera, so the special event offered many parents the chance to take their children into the stadium for the first time.

Saturday's match between Argentina's two biggest clubs is almost as much about the fans as the players. The threat of chaos, both on and off the field, is omnipresent.

The two teams drew the first leg with Boca twice coming from behind at their hallowed home in a dramatic game.

🎥 @PipaBenedetto aparece en la pantalla de la Bombonera y los hinchas responden 🙌👏.#JugamosTodos 👊 pic.twitter.com/lSWDn2Zj99 — Boca Jrs. Oficial 🏆🏆 (@BocaJrsOficial) November 22, 2018

Tevez (L) Dario Benedetto (C) and Ramon Abila take in the atmosphere during the session

A pair of Boca fans climb the barbed wire fence to take a selfie during the team's workout

The Boca players applaud their supporters following the special training session on Thursday

Boca have won the Libertadores six times and River have won it three, but this is the first time in the competition's 58-year they have met in the final.

Both matches sold out rapidly, with people coming from all over the world just to soak up the famous atmosphere of 'the biggest rivalry in football'.

Unlike in the past, when rival fans could occupy either end of the stadium praying for a chance to taunt their opponents, only home fans have tickets for the final's two matches.

Away fans have been banned from Argentine derby matches because of recurring trouble between competing sets of barras bravas, the name given to the organised fan groups who roar their support from the terraces.

====== 1810 ========

PEP GUARDIOLA ADDRESSES UNIVERSITY OF LIVERPOOL STUDENTS

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1811 ========

GUARDIOLA ON HIS YELLOW RIBBON... AND WHY HE 'CAN'T BE F*****' TO READ ABOUT JURGEN KIOPP

Pep Guardiola has lifted the lid on his yellow ribbon, a future move into international management and why he 'can't be f*****' to read about Jurgen Klopp in a tell-all lecture for Liverpool University.

The Manchester City boss delivered a talk as the keynote speaker for the University's annual Edgar Allisson Peers Symposium on Wednesday evening, and was on fine form as he spoke on a range of different subjects.

Perhaps the most serious topic was the political situation in Catalonia, and he was asked about the yellow ribbon he dons on the touchline.

Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola spoke to students at the University of Liverpool this week

He admitted he doesn't read because 'before I know it I am reading about Jurgen Klopp'

'Am I a public figure?' he said. 'I'm a citizen before I'm a manager. I prefer to be a father than a manager. I'd rather have a better society for my children than win the Premier League. You have to take care of democracy.'

Guardiola also gave his thoughts on the Premier League, and why he believes it is the toughest division in world football.

'For the amount of games, for the weather, the referees saying play, play, play,' he said. 'There are many contenders. No other country has that. It would be unfair to say that though.

'There are many things in Germany and Spain that have better things than here. I am a better manager now than I was at Barcelona and Bayern Munich. It's the most unpredictable league I've been in. You watch Match of the Day. The people are crazy here compared to other countries and it's good.'

Guardiola was speaking at University of Liverpool's annual Edgar Allisson Peers Symposium

Guardiola spoke about the yellow ribbon he wears for games, and his future in management

Guardiola is happy at Manchester City and is enjoying much success, but he did admit that he would be keen to move into international football at some stage - if only to improve his handicap on the golf course.

'I would like to be an international manager. Sooner or later it will happen. I'll play more golf that way. Now I don't have time to. If an international team knocks on the door we'll see.'

The 47-year-old also got some laughs from the young crowd at the University, when queried about the books he reads.

'I don't read,' he revealed. 'I start reading and before I know it I am reading about Jurgen Klopp. I can't be f***** with that.'

The 47-year-old admitted he would like to move into international management in his career

What Pep said - full transcript

Who is Pep Guardiola?

A: Thanks for inviting me. I love being in universities. It is my one regret. I started playing football young and didn't go to university despite being a good student.

What is football to you?

A: It's my love. It's my passion. It's almost everything for me. Sports gives me everything - to understand life and to try to be a better person. It's hard to imagine life without football. I'm lucky; my passion became my job.

What role does football play in society?

A: It's an incredible weapon for culture. Sometimes you play, sometimes you don't play and you have to accept the reality that the other player is better than you. It teaches you to accept many things, even uncomfortable things.

A football team is a society in itself. People go to a football game to escape. A football stadium reflects a society.

Guardiola (left) describes football as 'my love, my passion'... and 'almost everything' to him

What changes when you live abroad?

A: I'm a different guy [for it]. I'm a different guy as a 47-year-old compared to when I was 18. I was so comfortable in my country, in Barcelona. You travel. I did a lot at the end of my career, six months in Mexico, I lived in Germany, I tried to learn German.

My wife and kids decided to move from the protection of Spanish life without a word of English and now they're fluent. You have to move, I encourage my players to. Before you know it you're too old to. You have to be curious.

If you have a passion, go. Curiosity makes you feel alive. I went back to Munich last week to meet friends and that's because of travel. It's fantastic. After two or three years, change.

How does a Catalan live abroad? What do you miss?

A: Food. The weather, too. What is happening in this country? It's tough.

What do you think about the teaching of Catalan?

A: Congratulations, first of all. It's important that people speak Catalan like they do German. We're a small country (Catalonia), not many people speak it. That's why you have to invest in culture to spread our language, which is special, beautiful. Going to Catalonia is wonderful, you should go!

How do you inspire people?

A: There's no advice for that. Every life must be lived for itself. Some new managers come to watch us and they want to discover our secrets. There are no secrets. The best advice I can give is have passion. It rubs off on people. Everything comes from the heart. If you like what you do, you will have success.

The best I can say to people and students is look for what you like to do. Something that will get you up in the morning. It doesn't matter what it is. It will lead to success. That's why it's important to do as many things as possible.

You will find something you love that way. Don't follow what people say you have to do, don't follow your teachers or your parents. That's not the secret. Travel and discover many things.

Guardiola has coached in Germany, Spain and England - and also played in Qatar for two years

How do you see the current political situation in Catalonia?

A: I'm a Catalan. What does that mean? Maybe nothing. Forty-seven years ago my mum and dad had sex and nine months later I was born. I grew up there, my first words were in Catalan. But I love Spanish too. And German. And English.

In Catalonia now there is a situation that is not easy. The president is in exile, the second president is in exile. Ten politicians are in exile. They can travel round Europe but if they got to Spain they will be in jail. It's not about independence.

People fear going to jail, not just politicians, social activists and singers too. It's about letting Catalans express their thoughts on their own future. It's like in Scotland. Imagine if Alex Salmond was in jail. It's unfair.

Where were you on 1 October?

A: I was at home in Manchester watching on the internet. It was not easy to handle. The power in Catalonia is not the politicians, it is the people. The politicians follow instructions. It's a peaceful movement, it's not violent.

Spain is an incredible country, it's multilingual, multicultural, it's so rich. I don't know if the people want to be independent. We don't appreciate how rich [culturally] we are.

What would be the perfect Spain/Catalonia?

A: Democracy, democracy and more democracy. What is happening here is the only solution. A referendum.

Yellow ribbon Guardiola wears at City games:

A: Am I a public figure? I'm a citizen before I'm a manager. I prefer to be a father than a manager. I'd rather have a better society for my children than win the Premier League. You have to take care of democracy.

There are many different ribbons in society, it's part of society. Eighty per cent of people in Catalonia don't want the people in jail [political prisoners].

The Manchester City boss speaks to striker Sergio Aguero during a chilly training session

Can sport and politics mix?

A: Guus Hiddink stopped a game in Valencia to have a swastika removed. The Dutch team made a social stand at the World Cup in Argentina in 1974.

Spanish national team and Catalan nationalism. Can football avoid politics?

A: Sport can only help. When Spain play I want to see them win. My connection with Spain is higher than any other country I've been in. I have a connection with lots of their players.

I remember places for the nice people I met there rather than the nice churches they have. Barcelona gave me everything but now I'm the manager of Man City and I'm doing my best.

Which country you've lived in has empathised most with what's happening in Catalonia?

A: I don't know. Carles Puigdemont [president of Catalonia] is in Germany where he is being kept safe. I'm not a lawyer, though, so I can't talk about that.

I am curious to know how this will finish. A few days ago I was in Germany to see how they all were. They've been there for more than one year.

What do you read?

A: I don't read. I start reading and before I know it I am reading about Jurgen Klopp. I can't be f***** with that.

Do you feel FC Barcelona have an important role to play in the independence debate?

A: They have an important role to play, yes. It's impossible for them not to. The president has to balance the situation there but they are very important.

Is the Premier League the best in the world?

A: It's the toughest one. For the amount of games, for the weather, the referees saying play, play, play. There are many contenders. No other country has that. It would be unfair to say that though. There are many things in Germany and Spain that have better things than here.

I am a better manager now than I was at Barcelona and Bayern Munich. It's the most unpredictable league I've been in. You watch Match of the Day. The people are crazy here compared to other countries and it's good.

Guardiola speaks about the importance of taking risks and following your dreams in life

What has been the biggest obstacle in your managerial career?

A: The big defeats. You play at home in the semi-final of the Champions League and you lose 4-0. Wow. High expectations are tough, too. We are here to win, though, that's in our human nature.

Competition is nice because you can win, lose or draw. When you lose, accept it. Next time I will beat you.

Is there anything you haven't achieved in your managerial career yet that you would like to?

A: I would like to be an international manager. Sooner or later it will happen. I'll play more golf that way. Now I don't have time to. If an international team knocks on the door we'll see.

How have you been able to consistently deliver your message to so many people from so many backgrounds?

A: That's been the challenge. At Barcelona there were lots of players who had been at La Masia for years and years. In Germany it was not easy. Communicating there was not easy, it was a challenge. If I can do it, anyone can do it.

During my sabbatical I was learning German for four hours a day after signing the contract to be Bayern Munich manager. If I am the manager there I have to be grateful and make effort.

How does British media compare to Spanish media?

A: Nicer, much nicer. They are fantastic. I love them. In Barcelona the media were there every day. Here you see them before and after the game and that's it. But it's the same everywhere: If you win you're a genius, if you lose you're past it.

How does not speaking the language impact a player's performance?

A: Technology helps us a lot now. We've got images for everything which help for understanding ideas. Today managers work with that a lot. Today the changing rooms are multicultural, multilingual, it's fantastic and a big opportunity for the players. I tell them to not miss it.

Clubs give language lessons to players now, sometimes it's compulsory. I regret not learning the language when I was in Qatar. I wasted my time there.

I had time to learn Arabic but I didn't, I was playing golf and football instead. It's a huge regret that I didn't learn the basics. But it is what it is.

====== 1812 ========

VIDEO: HILARIOUS MOMENT LEYTON ORIENT FAN MIMICKS BROMLEY PLAYER WARM-UP

Video: Hilarious moment Leyton Orient fan mimicks Bromley player warm up

A Leyton Orient fan made the home crowd laugh as he pranked a Bromley player by mimicking his pre-match warm-up routine. Dressed in the full football kit, the fan can be seen matching the player stride for stride as...

====== 1813 ========

LEYTON ORIENT FAN MIMICS BROMLEY SUBSTITUTES' WARM-UP IN HILARIOUS VIDEO

A Leyton Orient supporter had the crowd at Brisbane Road in hysterics over the weekend by mimicking a Bromley substitutes' warm-up routine.

The Orient fans were already in high spirits, having seen their team come from behind to take a 3-1 lead against Bromley before one of their own decided to rub salt in the wounds.

Dressed in the full football kit, the fan matched a Bromley sub stride for stride as they jogged up and down the touchline from different sides of the advertising hoardings.

A Leyton Orient fan drew laughter from the home crowd for mimicking a Bromley substitute

The Orient supporter wore a full kit and copied the substitute's warm-up routine on Saturday

The Orient fan flicked his feet to his hands and lifted his knees in the air in synchronisation with the Bromley player, who done well to keep his cool after noticing what was going on.

The home crowd lapped it up and found the situation hilarious while stewards at the ground failed to intervene.

The fan was wearing Orient's red away kit, which matched the colours of Bromley.

One Orient supporter wrote on Twitter: 'Someone needs to buy this man a beer for this. Had me dying.'

One Orient fan wrote on Twitter: 'Someone needs to buy this man a beer. Had me dying'

The Stewards failed to intervene but the Bromley player done well to keep his cool

The Bromley player stopped his warm-up to watch his team come close to scoring

The laughing and joking in the stands is indicative of the feelgood factor currently surrounding Orient.

Saturday's 3-1 victory over Bromley saw the O's go top of the National League, one point above Salford.

And if current form is anything to go by, Orient fans will be confident of having the last laugh as manager Justin Edinburgh attempts to take them back into the Football League after a two-year hiatus.

====== 1814 ========

TIGER V PHIL: WOODS AND MICKELSON TALK TO PRESS BEFORE CONTEST

Video: Tiger v Phil: Woods and Mickelson talk to press before contest

Courtesy: Bleacher Report Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson face the press ahead of their $9million shootout in Las Vegas, with Mickelson quick to propose a $200,000 wager on the first hole.

====== 1815 ========

PHIL MICKELSON - GOLF'S GREATEST GAMBLER - IS STILL THE PERFECT MATCH FOR TIGER WOODS

Twenty years ago at Valencia Country Club, just north of Los Angeles, the two greatest golfers of their generation played together in a practice round ahead of the Nissan Open and put their own money, and egos, on the line.

Phil Mickelson won; and Tiger Woods' losses were, reportedly, big. For a man whose desperation for victory verged on disorder, this would have hurt bad.

A gleeful Mickelson twisted the knife. He made photocopies of Woods's lost $100 bills and put them in his rival's locker along with a note: 'Just wanted you to know Benji and his friends are very happy in their new home.'

Phil Mickelson poses in front of a mountain of cash ahead of The Match with Tiger Woods

Woods will play Mickelson for a winner-takes-all prize of $9million - plus side bets

That story, told by Doug Ferguson of the Associated Press in 2011, is the only account of Woods and Mickelson ever playing a money match together before they do just that on Friday in The Match, when they go mano a mano once again at Shadow Creek in Las Vegas for the staggering winner-takes-all prize of $9million (and at least another $1m or more in side bets, it seems.)

Embarrassing. That was the general consensus when it was announced that The Match would cost $19.99 to watch on pay-per-view TV in the United States. Twenty bucks to see an over-the-hill 48-year-old play a 42-year-old one more injury away from the knacker's yard for an obscene amount of money that neither man needs. Ten years ago this was a match everyone would have watched – and paid for. They were in their prime, forging legendary careers – and they hated each other. But now?

The former rivals are now buddies, and both were last in full view at the Ryder Cup in Paris, where Woods was losing all four of his matches. Mickelson was somehow even worse than that, deemed unplayable so bad was his form, so filling his time by exchanging pantomime kisses with his wife at the behest of the crowd around the 1st tee at Le Golf National... while his team-mates got on with the actual golf.

But forget actual golf – The Match isn't actual golf, otherwise it would be, say, Justin Rose v Brooks Koepka, world No 1 v world No 2. But would you watch that, let alone pay for it?

Woods v Mickelson is simply entertainment. And that day back at Valencia two decades ago shows exactly why there is no greater match that could have been made.

The choice of Woods is obvious - he transcends golf; almost everyone on the planet knows him, almost certainly has an opinion on him and would easily root for, or against, him.

And then there's Mickelson. Your granny might not know who he is but for this strange cocktail of Thanksgiving family fun and grubby Vegas greed, there could be no more apt choice than golf's most famous – and infamous - gambler.

Mickelson has earned more than $600m during his career, from prize money and sponsorships, according to Forbes. Around $88m of that is earnings on the course in PGA Tour events, second only to Woods's $116m. But how much he has earned in private matches is anyone's guess.

The stories of Mickelson's money matches are legendary, as is his smack talk in victory. They take place during practice rounds in the days before PGA Tour events, and usually involve him partnering up with another player against another pair, playing best-ball match play (i.e. the player with the lowest score on a hole wins that hole for his team.)

And while Woods might have 14 majors to Mickelson's five, in this format Lefty is the undisputed king. 'I had some big games with Mickelson,' Paul Azinger told PGA Tour Radio. 'He was virtually unbeatable.' These are the words of a major champion, a Ryder Cup captain and a renowned hard-ass.

In Mickelson's early days on tour, he and Azinger played a match and it came down to Mickelson's final birdie putt, a tricky downhill curler from 15 feet. 'Putt it, b****,' barked Azinger. Mickelson nailed it and broke out his trademark goofy grin.

The latest contest in Mickelson and Woods' rivalry is not for a major, but for pure hard cash

The pair were once far from friendly, and Mickelson is desperate for a win against his old foe

Former Open champion Mark Calcavecchia reckons the pressure in these money matches is sometimes greater than in actual tournaments. 'I've been more nervous on the last hole trying not to lose two or three hundred bucks to Phil or Dustin [Johnson] or whoever than I have been on the last hole standing over a putt for $20,000,' he once said.

The psychological tricks Mickelson plays is what gives the matches their edge, and he gave an insight into his mind games in a podcast with Golf.com's Alan Shipnuck.

'Keegan [Bradley, one of Mickelson's past Ryder Cup playing partners,] is about ready to bow out of these games because he's never won,' said Mickelson. 'It's been a year and a half and he's paid every time. And it gets demoralising. So he's like, "If I don't win today, I'm out. This is the day. This is the day I'm going to win."

'Fast forward to the 12th green. Keegan and I have about a 16-footer and 14-footer, and I'm away. Now they're 2 up. And as I'm standing over this putt, I back away, and I say, "Oh my goodness, this putt is the entire match."

'And Keegan bit, and he goes, "Oh yeah, how so?", which is what I was hoping he would say.

HOW TO WATCH 'THE MATCH' ON TV Sky Sports will show 'The Match' between Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson from 8pm on Friday - for free. Sky will use American broadcaster TNT's live feed from Shadow Creek, with five hours of live coverage shown on Sky Sports Golf. Viewers in the US are having to pay $19.99 to watch the action.

'And I said, "Well, if I miss, you're going to make your putt. You have momentum, you're going to make it, and you're going to be 3 up with six to go, and you guys are going to win. But if I make it, you're going to quick-peel yours low side. You're going to be so p***** off, you and Brendan [Steele] are going to give us a hole. Next thing you know, we're going to be tied, Rickie [Fowler] and I are going to have momentum, we're going to make a birdie or two coming in, probably beat you, 2 and 1."

'So I knock it in. And of either side he could have missed it on, he missed it low side. He quick-peeled it low side. Now they're so p***** off, they both bogey the next hole, and we get that hole and now we're tied. So Rickie and I birdie 15, 16 and 17, and win, 2 and 1.

'And I just chuckle about the story every time I hear it, because it's just funny. And I don't care about the money. I just love being able to – and I give him smack about this every time I see him.'

Steele, a three-time PGA Tour winner calls Mickelson an 'evil genius'. Nick Watney, a five-time winner, might grudgingly agree. He was once not only schooled by Mickelson in a money match, but also in his wickedly ruthless sense of humour too.

Before The Open at St Andrews in 2010, Watney took on Mickelson, with the loser paying the winner a cool thousand. Mickelson won but when Watney handed him $1,000, he was handed it back. 'This is Britain,' Mickelson told him. 'I need pounds.' Watney had to fork out about $1,700 due to the exchange rate at the time.

'They've asked me to play again,' Watney has since told ESPN. 'And now I just say 'f*** you' and walk away.'

Another example of his craftiness - and dedication to taking his rivals' cash - was demonstrated by Colt Knost, who Mickelson and a professional partner once took on at a private match. Knost's partner was a high-handicap amateur, so was given shots and also allowed to play off easier tees. But when they played on the day they found the forward tees had been moved way back, next to the competition tees – Mickelson had phoned ahead and told the course pro to remove his rival's advantage.

The amount of money wagered in these matches is uncertain – although Ryan Ruffels, a young Australian golfer, said in an interview with the Sydney Morning Herald in 2016 that Mickelson told him, 'I don't wake up this early to play for any less than $2,500' before they played a morning match. Mickelson wasn't best pleased, however, saying in response, 'He's young and he's got some things to learn. One of them is you don't discuss certain things. You don't discuss specifics of what you play for. And you certainly don't embellish and create a false amount just for your own benefit'.

The starting figure for Mickelson's matches is widely reported as being around $1,000 – but within the match there are many additional side bets that are made up of individual spot challenges, such as getting up and down from a bunker or holing a putt, or 'presses' where suddenly the money is doubled over certain holes. These can raise the bill significantly for the loser, reportedly even into five figures or even more at times.

This helps explain why Mickelson was so happy to put Woods on the spot before The Match by betting $100,000 of his own money that he would birdie the 1st hole at Shadow Creek. 'Double it,' was Woods's response, meaning they will play for an eyewatering $200,000 on one hole alone on Friday.

Mickelson, with wife Amy, loves to gamble in matches against fellow PGA Tour players

The biggest money match of Mickelson's career takes place at Shadow Creek in Las Vegas

Expect some fireworks too – especially where Mickelson has the chance to show off.

Cheech Marin, the comedian and actor, tells a story of Mickelson's showmanship on the set of a Tin Cup tribute: 'We were standing around, and someone came up with a bet. There was this really tall pine tree, and someone said to Phil Mickelson, "I bet you can't put your shoulder against the tree, drop a ball and hit it over the tree." The shot basically had to go straight up. Everybody threw in a hundred bucks. I think there was $1,200 in the pot. And he did it! When the ball was still in the air, Mickelson bent over, picked up the money, and put it in his pocket.'

Amusing anecdotes such as this mask the reality, however, that Mickelson is repeatedly, and perhaps compulsively, involved in high-stakes gambling.

This is not limited to the golf course either. Last March, it emerged during a court case in New York that Mickelson had to pay $2m worth of gambling debts to professional gambler Billy Walters in 2012. Mickelson earned $48m that year, but the figure is still astronomical.

Walters was sentenced to five years in prison and fined $10m for insider trading, and during his trial he was alleged to have passed on illegal stock tips to Mickelson, among others. Mickelson agreed with financial regulators to return $1.1m and was not charged with wrongdoing.

The 18-hole format plays into Mickelson's hands - and he's certainly used to playing for money

Woods - here handing Mickelson his green jacket for winning the Masters in 2006 - has only played his rival for money once before, with Mickelson taking the cash back in 1998

The Match will potentially earn Mickelson nine times that amount, which does little other than glamorise gambling when betting on sports is still illegal in all but a handful of states, and does nothing to recognise the extraordinary financial hits Mickelson has clearly taken by gambling.

Yet The Match also offers Mickelson a bonus of a different kind: the chance to get one over on the man who has overshadowed almost all of his five-major, 12-Ryder Cup, 49-win career, in front of a potentially huge TV audience. Over just 18 holes, anything is possible.

'This is a unique opportunity to do something that I've had a hard time doing, which is to get a leg up on Tiger even if it's just one day,' Mickelson said this week. 'It's great to win the $9m, but I just don't want to lose to him.

'The bragging rights are the thing. I want to be able to rub it in; I don't want it to be rubbed in. I want to sit in the champions locker room at Augusta [National, home of the Masters] and talk smack.'

The champions' lockers at Augusta will need to be awfully big to fit photocopies of all those $100 bills in.

Mickelson will hope to win extra cash in side bets where he can show off his unique skills

====== 1816 ========

VIDEO: AUBAMEYANG HANGS OUT WITH SALT BAE AT HIS DUBAI RESTAURANT

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1817 ========

PIERRE-EMERICK AUBAMEYANG SHOWS OFF £100,000 CARTIER JEWELLERY EATING AT SALT BAE'S DUBAI RESTAURANT

Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang has been one of the less busy Premier League stars during the international break, but that does not mean he has not made the most of his free time.

The Gabon international was not part of his side's 1-0 loss by Mali on Saturday and has instead recently taken a trip to Dubai where he ate at Salt Bae's Nusr-Et Steakhouse.

The chef posed for photos with the Arsenal star, which he shared on Instagram, but he also took an eye for the striker's jewellery.

Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang visited Salt Bae at his Dubai restaurant

With a video posted on the social media site he zoomed in on Aubameyang's hand hand which featured three Cartier bracelets worth just under £100,000.

Having also focused on the striker's watch and jewellery hanging from his neck, Aubameyang looked slightly embarrassed before doing the chef's trademark pose where he rubs his fingers together flamboyantly.

Aubameyang certainly looked liked he enjoyed his meal though, with Salt Bae accompanying the posts with 'My brother is very happy after the meat',

The Arsenal striker wore Cartier bracelets worth around £100,000 on his wrist

Aubameyang also had jewellery consisting of a necklace and watch

While in a separate Instagram post showing the two, Aubameyang wrote 'A bit of salt in your life. Thanks for last night, the man himself work hard salt hard'.

The restaurant has already proved popular with the likes of Lionel Messi and Paul Pogba, and has other chains in New York, Abu Dhabi, Istanbul, Miami and Doha with one also due to open in London.

Aubameyang has been in top form for Arsenal since joining from Borussia Dortmund at the start of the year in a deal worth £56million.

The striker has netted an impressive 19 goals in 30 games for the Gunners and they will hope he can continue his fine form after the international break.

Arsenal travel to Bournemouth on Sunday before facing Vorskla in the Europa League ahead of tests against Tottenham Hotspur and Manchester United.

Performing Salt Bae's gesture of rubbing his fingers, Aubameyang poses for the camera

====== 1818 ========

VIDEO: ONE IN THREE AMERICANS IS SET TO ENDURE 'FESTIVE BURNOUT' BEFORE CHRISTMAS

Video: One in three Americans is set to endure 'Festive Burnout' before Christmas

A study examining the impacts of festive stress and saw a third of respondents say they're burnt out on the holiday season bofore Christmas even comes.

====== 1819 ========

VIDEO: MOTHER SHARES HER JOURNEY AFTER SUFFERING SEVERE BURNS AFTER CAR CRASH

Video: Mother shares her journey after suffering severe burns after car crash

Heather Meadows was involved in a tragic car crash with her brother Jon in 1988. The other Mother-of-four suffered severe third degree burns and underwent open-heart surgery. 30 years later she tells her journey and...

====== 1820 ========

WOMAN WHO SUFFERED WITH 87% THIRD-DEGREE BURNS OVER 30 YEARS AGO MAKES INCREDIBLE RECOVERY

A woman who suffered a 'grossly disfiguring injury' after being involved in a road accident 30 years ago is speaking out about her miraculous recovery.

Heather Meadows, 37, from Oklahoma, was just seven years old at the time of the horrific accident, which left her with 87 per cent third-degree burns after the motorbike she was riding collided with an oncoming truck that subsequently burst into flames.

Heather's brother, Jon, who was driving the bike, was killed in the accident.

An inspiration: Heather Meadows, pictured embracing her scars, suffered 87% third-degree burns after she and her brother collided with a truck while riding a motorbike in 1988

A tragedy: Heather, who was just seven-years-old at the time of the incident, burned 87% of her body, and underwent open-heart surgety

A long process: She remained in hospital for three months after the accident, where she underwent skin grafts to improve what doctor's called a 'grossly disfiguring injury'

Heather was riding home on a motorbike with her brother Jon, who was swerving from left to right on the road, just after her seventh birthday in 1988.

All of a sudden, dust from the road went into their eyes and Jon, in an effort to avoid the dust, swerved to the left-hand-side of the road and entered the opposite lane.

Heather said: 'Jon and I pulled out behind a truck. It was a country dirt road. We didn't have on goggles. Instead, we had an urgency to get home.

'We didn't stop. We didn't pull over and wait for the dust to settle. Instead we continued riding behind the truck, making progress on the journey home, but unable to see and know our surroundings.'

Heather added: 'Jon kept swerving to the left and right, left and right. The dust stung his eyes; I knew this because it was stinging mine. I hunched behind him trying to shield my eyes from the cloud of dust enveloping us.

Jon swerved to the left one last time, and it was then that the truck collided with the motorbike.

Heather added: 'The gas cap came off the motorcycle and a massive fire began burning.

'I was in the flame. No longer did my eyes burn from a cloud of dust but beheld the blurriness from the fire. My face felt so very hot.'

The now mother-of-four recalls someone dragging her from the wreckage. She was then taken to a nearby burn unit, where doctors told her parents that there was a 140 per cent chance she would die.

Unexpected recovery: Heather's parents were told that there was a 140 per cent chance that she wouldn't survive. Heather pictured during (left) and after her recovery (right)

Proving them wrong: Doctor's said that it would be unlikely for Heather to ever walk again, but she proved them wrong

A devastating loss: Heather's brother Jon was killed in the accident. Speaking about her brother, she said: 'We did everything together'

The biggest struggle: Even though she was diagnosed with severe third-degree burns and underwent numerous surgeries, Heather's biggest challenge came with losing her brother

Upon waking up in the hospital shortly after, Heather was told that 87 per cent of her body was burned, and that her aorta had been completely transected from the force of the impact.

She said: 'I went in for open heart surgery, leading to my journey of being a burn survivor. My parents were given a one-hundred-and-forty percent chance that I would die.

'Nevertheless, they held out hope, meaning my greatest, most heart-wrenching challenge to keep living was before me.

'I was diagnosed with an eighty-seven percent third-degree burn injury. At seven-years-old, I felt my worth, value and beauty had been lost on that dirt road,' Heather added.

Despite doctor's labeling her with a 'grossly disfiguring injury', Heather said her biggest struggle came when she learned that her brother Jon had died in the accident.

She said: 'We did everything together. I knew no memory apart from him, and suddenly at seven-years-old I was faced with his absence. Forever. Navigating through grief was an unknown process to me.

'It was overwhelming; I had no coping skills to face it. So, like many do, I buried the grief and worked to ‘get better’ as everyone around me challenged me to do.'

Heather remained in hospital for three months, where she underwent many surgeries including open-heart surgeries and skin grafts.

She was also told that she may never walk again. However, she proved doctors wrong, and is now married with four children.

Love story: Heather met her husband Brandon (pictured) in high school, and married him when she was just 18-years-old

Support system: Heather said that before meeting Brandon she never imagined that a boy would be able to see beauty or value in her

One big happy family: The couple now have four children (pictured) together

She said: 'I met my husband in high school. I was a very unassuming young lady, never imagining a teenage boy sighting beauty and value in me.

'This became the details of what contributed to a special friendship before a romantic one. My husband and I got married at eighteen years old in June 1999.

'Through the years he has proven that the depth of beauty in the heart and soul can shine and captivate the most genuine love.' she added.

Heather said that, although the road to recovery was a painful process, it gave her a great understanding of who she is.

She said: 'In a crowd of people, only those who stand out differently from the norm are noticed. I knew how different I was as people began staring.

'I was a little girl who grew to handle the awkwardness of stares, still thirty years later encountering the same experiences in the most random, day-to-day parts of living.'

She added: 'It's not something anyone is ever completely okay with. But it's something that makes a burn survivor a survivor and not a ‘victim’. I'm not a victim of the reactions and bewilderment of strangers. I'm a survivor in the face of it.

Forever grateful: Heather smiles for a photo with Dr Kirk, the doctor who saved her life after the accident

A talented team: Heather, pictured above with nurses who helped save her life, says that her healthcare team became a family to her

'How I felt about myself wasn't defined to one period of time; I had to redefine myself. I had to redefine beauty. I had to search the worth within me apart from my body.'

Heather credits the healthcare team that looked after her, as well as her family for helping her get through her recovery after the incident.

She said her parents were committed and persistent to see her have the highest possible quality of life, saying that they pushed her 'even in the midst of excruciating pain.'

The mother-of-four, who is now a writer, speaker and nurse, arranged for some family photos to be taken on a family holiday in Hawaii in 2016.

Heather said: 'After scheduling the family photos, I felt the Lord nudge my heart to have some photos taken in a bikini. What?! I thought. No way.'

She said that although she loves going to the beach, the worst part for her is putting on a swimsuit.

'People stare; No matter how many years have passed since the accident, people stare, and I can see the what-happened-to-her look on their faces.

Family vacation: Heather and Brandon took their children on the vacation of a lifetime to Hawaii in 2016, where the mother-of-four arranged professional photos to be taken

An important message: Heather pictured speaking to a group of children about her experiences

'It's uncomfortable, it's awkward. So never in a million years did I figure I'd take photos in a bikini and share my scars for all of social media to see. But I felt God saying, ‘Heather, I entrusted this to you.’'

Reflecting back on her long road to recovery, Heather said: 'I grew up with the realisation that bad things can happen to anyone. I grew up with the realization that one decision can change life forever.

'Tragedy often at times breaks families. While it certainly broke ours, it created the need to lean on one another to piece back together again. We came out stronger on the other side.

She added: 'While life after a burn injury will never be the same, life can still be good. These bodies are merely shells. The value, hope, happiness, and optimism that is contained within them have far greater influence on the lives we live than the bodies which carry us through the journey.'

Heather's book, Transforming Tragedy: An Inspiring Story of Changing Painful to Powerful, documents her journey as a burn survivor, and is available on Amazon.

====== 1821 ========

VIDEO: MAN DRESSED AS A TURKEY GOBBLES DOWN TURKEY DINNER ON NYC SUBWAY

Video: Man dressed as a turkey gobbles down turkey dinner on NYC subway

Man dressed as a turkey honors Thanksgiving as he gobbles down a turkey dinner on the New York City subway as commuters have a laugh.

====== 1822 ========

WEIRD NYC SUBWAY MOMENTS: MAN DRESSED AS TURKEY EATS TURKEY

Most New Yorkers won't look twice when someone's doing something strange on the subway, but a few people couldn't help but giggle — or goggle — at one prankster's funny stunt this Thanksgiving.

Zeeshan Ali, who goes by @princezee on Instagram, dressed up in his holiday best to ride the train on Thursday, and brought along a little snack.

Wearing a silly brown, red, and yellow turkey costume, Ali sat calmly while eating an entire roast turkey propped up in his lap, cutting away at it with a fork and knife.

Festive fun: Zeeshan Ali, who goes by @princezee on Instagram wore a funny turkey costume for a Thanksgiving prank

Snacks for the journey! He rode the NYC subway wearing it and ate a roasted turkey in his lap

Tucking in! He went at it with a fork and knife and didn't acknowledge how weird it was

Entertainment: Other subway riders giggled and snapped his picture with their phones

Ali's pal @mrnycsubway made sure to record video of the funny stunt, and the men both posted it online Thursday morning.

In the short clip, Ali is seen wearing a felt turkey costume, including a matching hat and yellow shoes.

In his lap, he's brought along a cooked turkey, still on a wooden cutting board. He whips out a fork and knife and starts cutting away pieces to eat.

To his right, a young boy sitting next to his mother smirks and giggles, leaning back to sneak a picture. His mother takes out her phone to snap the turkey-man's picture as well.

To his left, a young woman can't help but smile in amusement, despite seemingly trying to remain neutral, and eventually she, too, takes out her phone to capture a not-so-sly photo.

Punishment: Earlier this year, the prankster orchestrated another public display, in which his Uber driver tossed him into a fountain

Everyone watching: Video of the scene went viral on Instagram

As the camera pans to the side, at least two more people on the train can be seen taking photos, and others are looking and smiling.

Just before the clip cuts out, Ali seems to be offering a piece of turkey to the woman sitting next to him.

Ali went viral for one of his pranks once before. Earlier this year, he was filmed being tossed into a fountain across the street from the New York Hilton Midtown hotel by an irate Uber driver — though later they admitted the whole thing was set up to get a reaction from passerby in the touristy area.

'Don't disrespect your Uber driver...or anyone for that matter,' wrote a woman named Kara Flagg, who captured video of the scene.

Later, a man named Daniel Jean posted the video as well, claiming to be the Uber driver.

'I think my acting skills are getting better from a 0 to 2.5 what you think?' he wrote.

====== 1823 ========

VIDEO: MODEL TESS HOLLIDAY SHOWS OFF HER THANKSGIVING CELEBRATIONS

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1824 ========

VIDEO: 22 YEAR-OLD WOMAN SHARES TWO YEARS STRUGGLE WITH ANOREXIA

Video: 22 year-old woman shares two years struggle with anorexia

22 year-old Megan Brewer from Lincoln suffered anorexia anorexia after her hobby of dancing turned into a dangerous obsession. The young woman, now recovering, started a blog sharing her story and giving advice...

====== 1825 ========

VIDEO: YOUNG WOMAN SCORES FIRST GOAL SINCE RECOVERING FROM ANOREXIA

Video: Young woman scores first goal since recovering from anorexia

22 year-old Megan Brewer, from Lincoln, is seen scoring her first goal since recovering from anorexia, during a soccer game. The young woman aspired to tour the world with a dance company but her hobby soon turned...

====== 1826 ========

VIDEO: TWO SETS OF IDENTICAL TWINS UNITED BY WATCHING SIBLING TRANSITION

Video: Two sets of identical twins united by watching sibling transition

Two sets of identical twins united by the same shared experience of watching a sibling transition from a brother to a sister. Nataisha and Jakeb Smiley, aged nine, reached out to Jada Tahiry and Branden Miguel and...

====== 1827 ========

VIDEO: WIFE SAYS SHE STOPPED LOVING HUSBAND WHEN DAUGHTER WENT MISSING

Video: Wife says she stopped loving husband when daughter went missing

Wife admits to not loving husband after their family was torn apart by the disappearance of their daughter 15-years-ago aged 14 on her way home from school. Husband was left 'devastated' hearing his wife's admission...

====== 1828 ========

MOTHER OF VANISHED SCHOOLGIRL, 14, SAYS SHE NO LONGER LOVES HER HUSBAND

The parents of missing 14-year-old Lancashire schoolgirl Charlene Downes say her disappearance 15 years ago has torn their family apart.

Karen and Bob Downes appeared on ITV's The Jeremy Kyle Show, where they spoke of their anguish at not knowing what happened to their daughter who is now presumed dead.

Police believe that Charlene, from Blackpool, who disappeared in 2003, was murdered and cut up before being served as kebab meat after being lured into a gang and groomed for sex.

They've never found her body and the tragedy is something that Karen, 53, says has bonded her to Charlene's father for life, despite her heartbreaking admission that she no longer loves her husband.

'It ripped me apart, part of me died with her, I will never be the same again,' Karen said on the show.

Karen and Bob Downes appeared on The Jeremy Kyle Show to speak about how the disappearance of their daughter 15 years ago still haunts them and has torn their family apart

Charlene Downes was 14 when she went missing in her home town of Blackpool, with police believing that she had been murdered and cut up before being served as kebab meat after being lured into a gang and groomed for sex

Speaking on the daytime show, Karen said that the ordeal had torn them all apart.

Even more so when officers searching the family home for clues inadvertently exposed Charlene's father as a cross-dresser after finding ladies' clothing and counselling material.

'We're not the same anymore. I chose to stand by him,' she told Kyle, 'I didn’t know what to believe I’ve never heard anything like that. I couldn't leave him.'

Asked by the host if she still loved her husband Karen said: 'Not any more no. But we live together.'

Bob said 'of course' he still loved his wife, adding that it hurt to hear she didn't love him. But he added: 'What else can I expect? We’re together, Charlene has made us stronger.

‘But the love I have still got for my wife, I am devastated that she doesn’t have the love for me.'

Karen broke down in tears as she spoke about the effect it had had on her and that she hadn't been able to move forward because she had no closure on what happened to her daughter

Karen and Bob were joined by the eldest daughter Becky, now 31, who spoke of her own struggle with the grief of losing her sister as she was the last person to see her

The presenter asked their eldest daughter Becky, now 31, who is still struggling to live with the grief of losing her sister, if she felt her parents were 'prolonging their misery by staying together'.

'They're my mum and dad, they're my family,' she said, as Karen nodded in agreement that they felt they had to remain together.

She admitted she was staying out of duty: 'Yes out of love for Charlene and to stick by him.'

She added that she couldn't feel like she could break free or move forwards because of her missing daughter.

Karen, who is also mother to another daughter Emma and younger son Robert Junior, said: 'I don't feel like I can do that, I feel like Charlene bonds us together.

'I've got no closure, no justice, no funeral.'

CCTV footage was released of the last time Charlene was seen on the streets of Blackpool during an investigation into her disappearance, and the case still remains open

Charlene's parents still live together but Karen admits she feels bonded to Bob through their shared tragedy but no longer loves him

The police investigation into Charlene Downes' murder Charlene Downes, 14, had been a victim of child sex gangs in Blackpool, many of them centred on takeaway restaurants. Police believe she was sexually abused by as many as 100 men in the run-up to her death. In 2007 two business partners were tried for murdering Charlene and disposing of her body using a mincing machine, before putting it into kebabs. However, a jury failed to reach a verdict and the case collapsed. Iyad Albattikhi and Mohammed Reveshi later received six-figure compensation sums for false imprisonment. In 2013, to mark the tenth anniversary of Charlene’s disappearance, police announced they had appointed a dedicated full-time senior investigating officer to the case. In 2016 a cold case team revisited the investigation and discovered CCTV footage of Charlene walking with her sister Rebecca on the day she vanished. It was finally released on the 13th anniversary of her disappearance in November 2016 and again for a fresh appeal on the BBC's Crimewatch Live Roadshow. Last year, a 51-year-old man was arrested after being first quizzed by police in the year she went missing. Over the years, police have made five arrests on suspicion of Charlene's murder but all have been freed without charge.

The investigation into Charlene's disappearance became the largest in Lancashire Police's history and was incredibly controversial.

Officers believed Charlene was lured into a gang and groomed for sex before being murdered, but two local takeaway workers who stood trial in 2007 were not convicted.

The police were heavily criticised and officers were disciplined. The defendants from the original trial received staggering sums in damages.

Looking back at her daughter's behaviour in the months leading up to her disappearance, Karen believes she missed vital clues that Charlene was being groomed.

Karen last saw her daughter on the last night of the 2003 Blackpool Illuminations, when she spotted her handing out leaflets for a local restaurant.

She spoke to her daughter and a school friend for a while, describing her as 'full of beans', before heading off to work.

In 2014, Police offered a £100,000 reward and new CCTV footage emerged, which shows Charlene shortly before she disappeared. But the investigation is still no further forward.

The Jeremy Kyle Show airs on ITV weekdays at 9.25am



====== 1829 ========

VIDEO: RESEARCHERS INVENT INTERACTIVE ROBOTIC ARM TO EAT WITHOUT MOVING

Video: Researchers invent interactive robotic arm to eat without moving

Researchers from Exertion Games Lab, in Melbourne Australia, have invented what they call am 'Arm-a-Dine', an eating system that helps you explore an augmented eating experiences. With this third arm you'll be able...

====== 1830 ========

VIDEO: RESEARCHERS UNVEIL STAR-TREK INSPIRED 'ION-PROPULSION' PLANE ENGINE

Video: Researchers unveil Star-Trek inspired 'ion-propulsion' plane engine

A Sar-Trek inspired plane engine has been tested for the first time. With no moving parts, the revolutionary aircraft moves through a 'ionic wind' of colliding electrically charged air molecules that provide the...

====== 1831 ========

VIDEO: DS SMITH SHOWS THE RIGOROUS TESTS CHRISTMAS SHOPPING GOES THROUGH

Video: DS Smith shows the rigorous tests Christmas shopping goes through

A London delivery company have revealed how they safeguard their packages against damage. Three quarters of online shoppers have received a damaged product in the last 12 months.

====== 1832 ========

VIDEO: AMATEUR ASTRONOMER CAPTURES MOMENT METEOR EXPLODES IN THE NIGHT SKY

Video: Amateur astronomer captures moment meteor explodes in the night sky

An amateur astronomer captures the incredible moment a meteor exploded above his house and scattered throughout the night sky. Derek Robson filmed the breathtaking spectacle from his back garden in Loughborough

====== 1833 ========

VIDEO: RESEARCHERS DISCOVER THE WORLD’S SMALLEST TRACKS FOOTPRINTS

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1834 ========

VIDEO: RESEARCH REVEALS FIBROBLASTS MIGRATING TO HEAL A FLESH WOUND

Video: Research reveals Fibroblasts migrating to heal a flesh wound

Research by John O'Neill's group revealed that wounds that happen during active phase of the circadian cycle (daytime for humans) heal more rapidly. This is because fibroblasts, cells involved in repairing damage,...

====== 1835 ========

VIDEO: MYSTERIOUS AND DISGUSTING 'WORM MONSTER' CAPTURED ON CAMERA

Video: Mysterious and disgusting 'worm monster' captured on camera

A bizarre ‘worm-monster’ that greeted a disgusted homeowner after several days of constant rain has been captured on camera. Video shows the squirming mass with parts writhing in every direction outside an apartment...

====== 1836 ========

VIDEO: HUMAN IMAGES FROM WORLD'S FIRST TOTAL-BODY SCANNER UNVEILED

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1837 ========

VIDEO: HIDDEN CAMERA REVEALS SERIAL BURGLAR IS NEIGHBOUR WITH KNICKER FETISH

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1838 ========

SINISTER MOMENT 'TRUSTED' NEIGHBOUR IS CAUGHT RUMMAGING THROUGH MOTHER'S KNICKER DRAWER

A hairdresser who suspected an intruder was getting into her home rigged up a secret camera in her bedroom and caught her neighbour rummaging through her knicker drawer.

Sharon Bulman, 45, of Skelton, North Yorkshire, watched in horror as she saw good friend Steve Gill, 49, rifling through her underwear in video taken on a device she had hidden in an owl cushion.

Married HGV driver Gill, who Sharon and her firefighter husband James relied upon to keep watch on the three storey townhouse when they were away, committed a sex act with one of her pop socks.

And while doing so Gill, who had made a copy of a spare key the couple gave him while they were away on holiday, watched a secretly recorded video of Mrs Bulman chatting to a friend.

Steve Gill is filmed on a camera hidden in an owl cushion creeping into the couple's bedroom

After drawing the curtains he crouches over Mrs Bulman's underwear drawer and starts rummaging through it

The 49-year-old admitted burglary and stalking and was given a suspended jail term and a restraining order to stay away from Mrs Bulman, which is likely to mean selling his £210,000 home.

After the hearing at Teesside Crown Court, Mrs Bulman, a hairdresser and successful amateur runner, said that Gill had invaded her family's privacy in 'the worst possible way.'

The family moved into their home when it was first built seven years ago, with father of two Gill and wife Karen moving in a short while later.

The two couples became friends with Gill offering to do odd jobs and look after their daughter if they were out.

Mrs Bulman, left, and with her husband James, right, said the incident had left her feeling 'disgusted, filthy and disappointed'

But 18 months ago Sharon started to become suspicious of his reasons for being helpful.

She said: 'The first time I wondered what was going on was one day that he was in having a coffee and I went upstairs to change into my running gear which was laid out on the landing.

'As I got ready I saw movement and caught sight of Steve running down the stairs. He later explained that he had gone up to look at our carpet which we'd had cleaned but now of course I believe differently.

'On another day as I was driving out of the estate I looked in my car's rear view mirror and got a shock because I thought I saw a figure standing in our house.

'James also caught Steve leaving our back gate with a can of WD40 and he said he looked very sheepish. He hurriedly explained to James that I'd been complaining about the back door squeaking.

Gill wanders over to the window to draw the curtains, and then is filmed peering outside

'I'd said no such thing and we became convinced something was going on but I didn't know what, although I suspected he might be looking in my underwear drawer.

'I started deliberately leaving it slightly open and sure enough when I would get home it would be shut so someone had to be in there tampering with it.

'I would very often get texts from Steve saying: 'Hello lovely Sharon, when do you think you'll be getting home?'

'At the time I didn't think much of it, just that he was being friendly, but again it makes sense now because he wanted to know how much time he had undisturbed in our house.

'Once we really strongly suspected him James bought a camera from Argos and I hid it inside a cushion which had an owl on it. I took out one of the owl's eyes and the camera lens poked through.

'The camera was triggered by movement and it caught the whole thing as he walked into our bedroom.

'It was absolutely awful to see him walk into our room as though he owned the place, close the curtain,s have a peep outside and then head straight for my underwear drawer. It looked like something he'd become used to doing.

'Whilst he was doing what he did he was watching and rewinding a video on his phone. You can see the screen on the video and it appears to be a video of me just talking and close up.

'The whole thing is really creepy and unsettling, he was given a key because he offered to help us while we were on holiday in Cyprus but he's abused our trust in the worst possible way.

Married HGV driver Gill then grabbed one of Sharon's pop socks from an underwear drawer (pictured) before he committed a sex act

'Lots of people rely on good neighbours for help but you never expect someone to do something so horrible, it's been really hard to deal with.'

Gill admitting burglary and stalking, but dodged prison because he had never been in trouble before and being locked up would have an impact on his two sons and mother.

The court heard that his wife is standing by him.

She was in the public gallery, and was one of a number of family and friends to write a letter of support for the judge to read.

He was given a 12-month jail sentence, suspended for two years, ordered to go on a sex offenders' treatment programme, do 150 hours of unpaid work, pay £200 costs and £500 compensation to Sharon.

Describing the offences of burglary and stalking as 'highly unusual examples', Judge Peter Armstrong told him: 'It was quite extraordinary behaviour for a man of 49 with no previous convictions.

'Suspecting things only happened when you were there, your neighbours carried out some detective work and eventually a camera caught you doing what has been rightly described as quite outrageous behaviour.

'The most serious aspect of this case is the effect on Mrs Bulman.

She must have been devastated to discover what had been happening. No doubt, the thought of you going through her underwear drawer has caused her considerable distress.'

Andrew Turton, mitigating, said Gill was going through a troubled time in his marriage, and appeared to be getting depressed.

He told the court: 'Custody would have a devastating effect not only on him but also his family.

A lesson has been severely learned by this defendant in his fall from grace.

'There is clearly distorted thinking in terms of going through the act of entering the house and doing what he did.

He has a good understanding about how his neighbour feels.'

Gill, who sat through the entire hearing with his head bowed, was described by Mr Turton as a loving father and loving husband.

The lawyer added: 'It is a disturbing case and an unusual case. It was not designed to cause distress because it was designed to carry out the nefarious activity in secret.

'He was acting out a fantasy in a situation that was secret.

Obviously, he hoped never to be discovered.

'There was a level of estrangement from his wife, something of an attraction between him and his neighbour which he is candid enough to accept was a misinterpretation on his part in relation to the signals he was receiving.

'A perfect storm was created given he has in his background some fetish tendencies.'

In a statement, Sharon told how Gill was becoming over-friendly towards her when she first noticed things out of place at her family's semi-detached home.

She said the ordeal has left her feeling 'disgusted, filthy and disappointed' and said: 'I thought he was a friend and could be trusted, but he has proved me wrong.

'I no longer want to be in my bedroom and have trouble sleeping. I feel like throwing my underwear out in case anything else has happened.'

====== 1839 ========

VIDEO: MAN FLOORED THREE TIMES IN A VIOLENT MILTON KEYNES BAR BRAWL

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1840 ========

CROWD CHEER WILD BAR-ROOM BRAWL IN MILTON KEYNES

This is the shocking moment a crowd cheer a wild bar brawl in Milton Keynes.

The astonishing clip shows revellers egging on the group of drunken men throwing punches and kicks at each other, before one man is floored three times.

Footage lasting almost a minute captures the chaotic scenes, as one man in a black shirt throws a succession of blows at his foe, who scrambles to his feet dazed.

Scroll down for video

This is the shocking moment a crowd cheer a wild bar brawl in Milton Keynes. The astonishing clip shows revellers egging on the group of drunken men throwing punches and kicks at each other, before one man is floored three times

The fracas took place around 1.51am on Sunday 18th November in Missoula Montana Bar & Grill in Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire.

It is claimed the violent brawl lasted more than ten minutes and the fight was so violent bouncers could not break it up completely.

The video begins with four men throwing wild, swinging punches at one another by the doorway of the bar.

A large crowd of excited onlookers gather to watch the fight unfold and shriek as the men come to blows.

Footage lasting almost a minute captures the chaotic scenes, as one man in a black shirt throws a succession of blows at his foe, who scrambles to his feet dazed

Two men throw wild punches and taunt each other, while a man with long hair attempts a flying kick at another before staggering backwards.

The long haired man is soon on the receiving end however, after another man enters the fray and knocks him down three times with three haymakers in a row.

A security guard can be seen gesturing at the males to stop fighting but they completely ignore him.

The incident took place around 1.51am on Sunday 18th November in Missoula Montana Bar & Grill in Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire. It is claimed the violent brawl lasted more than ten minutes and the fight was so violent bouncers could not break it up completely

The video begins with four men throwing wild, swinging punches at one another by the doorway of the bar. A large crowd of excited onlookers gather to watch the fight unfold and shriek as the men come to blows

A friend picks up the floored man as he stumbles around and takes him away from the commotion.

As the pair leave, the man in a black shirt can be heard boasting to the 'See! That's a punch!'.

The man recording the clip alleged that one of the men involved was blood-soaked following the fight and the bar had to evacuated.

The long haired man is soon on the receiving end however, after another man enters the fray and knocks him down three times with three haymakers in a row. A security guard can be seen gesturing at the males to stop fighting but they completely ignore him

They said: 'The fight continued for a long time. It lasted a good ten minutes and one boy that was involved has his white shirt covered in blood at the end. I was shocked.

'I was surprised that the bouncers didn't do more. They handled the situation terribly. In the end, they closed the venue and everyone had to leave.'

A spokesperson for Thames Valley Police said: 'Officers were called to the Missoula Montana Bar and Grill, Milton Keynes following reports of disorder at the bar with a number of people fighting.

'Officers attended the scene and arrested a 26-year-old man and 28-year-old man both from Newport Pagnell on suspicion of affray. They have both been release under investigation.

'Enquiries are ongoing into this incident and we would ask one with information to call Thames Valley Police on 101 quoting reference 43180352679.'

A spokesperson for Missoula in Milton Keynes said: 'We are assisting police with their investigation into the incident that took place just before closing time on Saturday night and have supplied CCTV footage.

'Our agency door team managed a challenging situation, but following discussions with our security supplier, we have further strengthened our door supervision team.'

====== 1841 ========

VIDEO: MAN SCREAMS FOR HELP AS HE CLINGS TO THE BONNET OF HIS STOLEN VAN

Video: Man screams for help as he clings to the bonnet of his stolen van

Footage recorded by passersby shows a workman clinging to his speeding Ford Transit windscreen driven by carjackers and screaming for help before it races around a corner in Stoke.

====== 1842 ========

MAN FIGHTING FOR HIS LIFE AFTER VANJACKERS THROW HIM FROM WINDSCREEN

A man is fighting for his life after being thrown from the bonnet of his speeding van by a carjacker in Stoke.

Footage recorded by a shocked passersby shows the victim clinging to the Ford Transit windscreen screaming for help before it races around a corner - leaving the terrified man with 'life-threatening' injuries.

Paramedics rushed him to a major trauma centre in Coventry, while the robber fled the scene.

The terrified workman in Stoke was left clinging to the bonnet of his Transit by robbers before being thrown off and left with 'life-threatening' injuries. He remains in a major trauma centre

The heart-stopping incident took place at 1pm in front of stunned witnesses, including one who posted the clip on to Facebook, which has since been viewed 330,000 times.

West Midlands Police said: 'Officers were called to the junction of Caludon Road and Swan Lane just before 1pm to reports that a man was hanging from the windscreen of the white Transit.

'The vehicle made off, leaving the injured man on the ground; his condition in hospital is said to be life-threatening.

'The investigation is at an early stage and enquiries are underway to trace the van and the people responsible.'

The heart-stopping incident took place at 1pm in front of stunned witnesses, including one who posted the clip on to Facebook, which has since been viewed 330,000 times

A West Midlands Ambulance Service spokesman said: 'An ambulance was on scene within five minutes and was backed up by a further ambulance, a paramedic officer and The Air Ambulance Service critical care car with a doctor on board.

'On arrival, ambulance staff found a man who had suffered very serious injuries.

'He received advanced clinical care at the scene before being taken on blue lights to the major trauma centre at University Hospital in Coventry in a critical condition.'

Viewers on Facebook were quick to pay tribute to the man who remains in hospital, with one commenting: 'Hope he recovers, disgusting act of cowardice.'

While another said: 'The lad was being hijacked for his van. He was protecting his property and is now in a critical condition.'

====== 1843 ========

VIDEO:JOHN AND NOEL CLASH AFTER HE ACCUSES HIM OF SCRATCHING HIS GROIN

Video: John and Noel clash after he accuses him of scratching his groin

John Barrowman comes to blows with Noel Edmonds after he accuses him of scratching his groin. In Thursday's episode of I'm A Celebrity Get Me Out of Here the game show host told him to stop scratching his groin...

====== 1844 ========

VIDEO: HARRY REDKNAPP TALKS ABOUT HIS LOVE FOR HIS WIFE IN I'M A CELEBRITY

Video: Harry Redknapp talks about his love for his wife in I'm a Celebrity

Football manager, Harry Redknapp, talks about the love he has for his wife in 'I'm a Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!'. His fellow campmates get emotional, as he says he 'loves his wife too much', in his 54 year...

====== 1845 ========

JOHN ALLEN CHAU DID MAKE CONTACT WITH TRIBE ON NORTH SENTINEL ISLAND

John Allen Chau, 26, was shot dead with an arrow when he went to North Sentinel Island

An American Christian missionary wrote in his journal about the tribesmen that shot him with arrows - with 'a little kid' hitting the Bible he held at his chest - when he tried to give them gifts the day before they killed him.

John Allen Chau, 26, wrote in his journal that he reached North Sentinel Island - one of the world's most isolated regions in India's Andaman islands that is off-limits to visitors - in his kayak on November 15.

Chau said at one point he was 'just inches' away from the tribesmen - who he described as about 5 feet 5 inches tall and with yellow paste on their faces - and offered them gifts of a football and fish.

But when he reacted with hostility, he threw the gifts in their direction and fled.

'My name is John. I love you and Jesus loves you... Here is some fish!' he said he hollered at them before fleeing.

He narrowly avoided death that day when some of the tribe shot at him with their arrows - and one 'little kid', almost unbelievably, hit the Bible he was holding at his chest.

'Well, I've been shot by the Sentinelese… By a kid probably about 10 or so years old, maybe a teenager, short compared to those who looked like adults,' he wrote.

'The little kid shot me with an arrow - directly into my Bible which I was holding at my chest,' he added.

Recalling his near-death experience in his journal that evening, he wrote: 'Father, forgive him and any of the people on this island who try to kill me... and especially forgive me if they succeed.'

John Chayu wrote in his journal about the tribesmen that shot him with arrows - with a little kid hitting his Bible - when he tried to give them gifts the day before they killed him

Police learned he had a strong desire to meet the Sentinelese and preach on the island

He offered gifts such as a football and fish but they got angry and shot at him during his visit to the island the day before he died. The arrow hit his Bible and spared him another day

Chau, who had lived in southwestern Washington state before attending Oral Roberts University in Tulsa, also wrote about his escape from the island in great detail.

'I grabbed the arrow shaft as it broke in my Bible... and felt the arrow head. It was metal, thin and very sharp.'

He later recalls giving the arrow head back to the tribe.

'Now that I remember it, after I got shot by that arrow and it was in my Bible, I gave it BACK! Man, I should have snapped it,' he wrote.

He also wrote about shouting at the kid who shot him and his desperate journey back to the boat.

'I stumbled back and I recall yelling at the kid for shooting me - now as I look back at it, my Bible cover looks like bark - like tree bark, so maybe he was just curious but yikes, it sure gave me a fright,' he wrote.

He added: 'They chased me. I had to swim almost a mile back to the boat.'

Later, he revealed his fear that another group of tribesmen may have damaged his boat while he was ashore.

'As I got closer, I thought a rock was the boat and then saw the boat but with figures with their arms up waving and I thought briefly that another group of Sentinelese had attacked the boat while they were watching me, but thank God that wasn't the case.

'Although I now have no kayak or my small pelican and its contents, I'm grateful that I still have the written word of God.

'The plan now is to rest and sleep on the boat and in the morning to drop me off by the [illegible] and then I walk along the beach toward the same hut I've been giving gifts to.

'It's weird - actually no, it's natural: I'm scared. There, I said it. Also frustrated and uncertain - is it worth me going on foot to meet them?

'Now they have attacked me... unfortunately HP won't go with me and only stays on the vessel. The language gap is tough too or it's hard to get good input - Lord let your will be true.

'If you want me to get actually shot or even killed with an arrow then so be it. I think I could be more useful alive though, but to you, God, I give all the glory of whatever happens.'

'Father, forgive him and any of the people on this island who try to kill me... and especially forgive me if they succeed,' Chau wrote in his final journal entry

As he spent the night writing about his experiences on pages that he then gave the fishermen, it appears Chau's near-death experience made him reluctant to return to the island.

But it seems it was his faith in God that led him to change his mind.

'I DON'T WANT TO DIE! Would it be wiser to leave and let someone else continue? No. I don't think so,' he penned.

''m stuck here anyway without a passport and mainly been off the grid.

'I still could make it back to the US somehow as it almost seems like certain death to stay here.'

Chau's final journal entry: Missionary describes meeting the tribe the day before he's killed by them On a November 15 entry, the day before he was killed, Chau described his distrous meeting with the tribe. 'Well I've been shot by the Sentinelese,' he wrote, returning that evening. 'By a kid, probably about ten years old.' He explained that earlier that day he's tried making contact with the tribe. Chau brought gifts with him, fish and a football, and arranged for him to be dropped off by fishermen, who he would meet later at their boat. But when he arrived, he found a group of wary young teens who did not welcome him. He said he got close enough to give the gifts, just 'inches' away from a 'round faced' islander, to whom he gave a 'bunch' of 'gift-type items' before he said the 'the little toad shot me with an arrow - directly into my Bible which I was holding in front of my chest'. 'Two armed Sentinelese came rushing out yelling,' he said. 'They had two arrows each, unstrung, until they got closer. I hollered 'My name is John, I love you and Jesus loves you',' he continued in his journal. 'I regret I began to panic slightly as I saw them string arrows in their bows. I picked up the fish and threw it toward them. They kept coming,' he wrote. After his kayak was damaged, Chau swam back to the fishermen's boat, which was waiting at a prearranged location. 'I paddled like I never have in my life back to the boat. I felt some fear but mainly was disappointed. They didn't accept me right away,' he continued. He said that during the attack, a 'little kid shot me with an arrow - directly into my Bible which I was holding.' 'If you want me to get actually shot or even killed with an arrow then so be it. I think I could be more useful alive though…' The dangerous encounter seemed to give Chau pause for thought. 'I don't want to die! Would it be wiser to leave and let someone else continue? No. I don't think so. I still could make it back to the US somehow as it almost seems like certain death to stay here,' he penned. 'God, I don't want to die. WHO WILL TAKE MY PLACE IF I DO? OH GOD I miss my parents... Sadly, when he did return the next day, he was killed.

But it appears he remains determined to continue, adding: 'Will try again tomorrow.'

He later adds: 'Watching the sunset and it's beautiful – crying a bit… wondering if it'll be the last sunset I see before being in the place where the sun never sets. Tearing up a little.'

Chau speaks more about his fear of dying as well as expressing how much he misses his family and friends in his journal entry the night before his death.

'God, I don't want to die. WHO WILL TAKE MY PLACE IF I DO? OH GOD I miss my parents, my mom and dad and Brian and Mary and Norah and Jeremy and Jill and Jennifer and Seth and Bobby... and Christian and someone I can talk to and be understood.

'None of the guys on the boat know much English and I don't know much Hindi or how to ask their opinions and to tell stuff like this to.

'I've never felt this much grief or sorrow before. WHY! Why did a little kid have to shoot me today? His high-pitched voice still lingers in my head.

'Father, forgive him and any of the people on this island who try to kill me... and especially forgive me if they succeed.

'What makes them so defensive and hostile? Legends passed down through millenia of their escape from a slave ship? Why does this beautiful place have to have so much death here?

'Last night, I had what I'd call a vision as I've never had one before - my eyes were shut but I wasn't asleep and I saw a purple hue over an island-like city as a meteorite or star fell to it and it was a frightening city with jagged spires and I felt distressed.

'Then a different light, a whiteish light filled it and all the frightening bits melted away.

'Lord, this island, Satan's last stronghold where none have heard or even had a chance to hear your name?'

'Lord, strengthen me as I need your strength and protection and guidance and all that you give and are. Whoever comes after me to take my place, whether it's after tomorrow or another time, please give them a double anointing and bless them mightily.'

Speaking about his plan for his return to the island, he wrote: 'The plan for [tomorrow] is to drop me at the cache and then the boat will leave for the day, returning at night.'

He wrote that he was 'at peace with that plan' because 'if it goes badly on foot, the fishermen won't have to bear witness to my death.'

He adds: 'Alternative is to either wait... and go back to Port Blair without any documents and stay in the safe house again and put all at risk (why are we so afraid of death?) or get deported.

'If I leave, I believe I will have failed the mission.'

He ends the entry with the words: 'Perfect LOVE casts out fear. Lord Jesus, fill me with your perfect love for these people!'

In his final journal entry before his death, penned in the early hours of November 16, Chau writes that he had 'a fairly restful sleep.'

'Woke up after a fairly restful sleep, heading to island now. I hope this isn't my last notes but if it is, to God be the glory.

'One thought occurred to me last night: only young adults were seen and kids, but no elderly - are they separated and must stay on the shore? Are the elderly in the jungle?

'I'm heading back to the hut I've been to. Praying it goes well.'

DailyMail.com has since obtained a letter Chau wrote to his parents he penned prior to his death that detailed how he was committed to teaching the tribe about Jesus

Chau's last entries - dated between November 14 to 16 - also shed some light on what occurred when he first arrived at the island, including what happened after he initially panicked when he saw the tribe's bows.

'Two armed Sentinelese came rushing out yelling. They had two arrows each, unstrung, until they got closer,' he wrote.

'I regret I began to panic slightly as I saw them string arrows in their bows. I picked up the fish and threw it toward them. They kept coming,' he wrote.

After his kayak was damaged, Chau swam back to the fishermen's boat, which was waiting at a prearranged location.

Two armed Sentinelese came rushing out yelling. They had two arrows each, unstrung, until they got closer. I hollered 'My name is John, I love you and Jesus loves you'. John Chau's journal entry after making contact with the tribe

'I paddled like I never have in my life back to the boat. I felt some fear but mainly was disappointed. They didn't accept me right away,' he continued.

Chau seemed to know they were on a mission to kill him but tried to make progress anyhow.

The missionary explained that the group may have felt threatened because many of the adult male protectors were not present.

He appeared to detail the moment after he was initially shot at, saying: 'I heard the whoops and shouts from the hunt. I made sure to stay out of arrow range, but unfortunately that meant I was also out of good hearing range.

'So I got a little closer as they (about 6 from what I could see) yelled at me, I tried to parrot their words back to them. They burst out laughing most of the time, so they probably were saying bad words or insulting me.

'They were also yelling into the forest behind the hut which they made in drumming sound, if I can recall. Perhaps their men were away which would explain why the only ones yelling at me looked fairly juvenile.'

Chau explained how he may have seen the leader of the tribe that day and noted how he shouted at him.

He wrote: 'I spotted one man wearing a white crown or something (flowers maybe?) on his head and he also took a seemingly leadership stance... yelled at me.

'Leadership stance meaning he climbed atop the tallest coral rock to yell.'

When he set out again to meet the tribes people on November 16 he never returned.

Dependera Pathak, director-general of police on India's Andaman and Nicobar Islands, said Chau organized his visit to the island through a friend who hired seven fishermen for $325 to take him there on a boat, which also towed his kayak there.

Pathak said the following day the fishermen watched from a distance as the tribesmen dragged Chau's body away.

Pathak said officials are consulting anthropologists, tribal experts and scholars to figure out a way to recover the body.

Chau also wrote a letter to his parents asking them not to be 'mad at them or at God' if he was killed. DailyMail.com has since obtained the letter as well as several of his journal entries.

Chau's journal entries - dated between November 14 to 16 - have shed some light on what occurred when he first arrived at the island, including how he initially panicked

Chau explained how he may have seen the leader of the tribe that day and noted how he shouted at him

Chau took a boat ride with the fishermen before venturing alone to North Sentinel Island (pictured, a file photo shows tribesmen on the island)

The Sentinelese attracted international attention in the wake of the 2004 Asian tsunami, when a member of the tribe was photographed on a beach, firing arrows at a helicopter (pictured)

'You guys might think I'm crazy in all this but I think it's worth it to declare Jesus to these people,' he wrote in the letter to his parents.

'Please do not be angry at them or at God if I get killed.

'Rather please live your lives in obedience to whatever he has called you to and I'll see you again when you pass through the veil. This is not a pointless thing - the eternal lives of this tribe is at hand and I can't wait to see them around the throne of God worshiping in their own language as Revelations 7:9-10 states.

'Please do not be angry at them': John Chau's letter to his parents You guys might think I'm crazy in all this but I think it's worth it to declare Jesus to these people. Please do not be angry at them or at God if I get killed. Rather please live you lives in obedience to whatever he has called you to and I'll see you again when you pass through the veil. This is not a pointless thing - the eternal lives of this tribe is at hand and I can't wait to see them around the throne of God worshiping in their own language as Revelations 7:9-10 states. I love you all and I pray none of you love anything in this world more than Jesus Christ.' Soli Deo gloria.

'I love you all and I pray none of you love anything in this world more than Jesus Christ.'

Chau signed off the letter with his name and 'Soli Deo gloria', which is Latin for Glory to God alone. The letter is dated November 16, which is one day after the fishermen said they first took him to the island.

Chau's family paid tribute to him in a post on his Instagram page on Wednesday.

'He was a beloved son, brother, uncle, and best friend to us,' his family wrote.

'To others he was a Christian missionary, a wilderness EMT, an international soccer coach, and a mountaineer. He loved God, life, helping those in need, and he had nothing but love for the Sentinelese people.'

They added: 'We forgive those reportedly responsible for his death.'

Fishermen saw the tribe burying Chau's body on the beach, a fellow missionary wrote in an email to his mother Lynda Adams-Chau, the Washington Post reports.

But in an email to the Post, Adams-Chau said she believes her son is alive. When asked why, she said: 'My prayers.'

Indian police said a murder case had been registered against 'unknown' tribespeople and that the fishermen who allegedly helped Chau get to the island were arrested.

But Chau's family called for them to be released, saying that he had 'ventured out on his own free will.'

In their statement, they said: 'We also ask for the release of those friends he had in the Andaman Islands. He ventured out on his own free will and his local contacts need not be persecuted for his own actions.'

The Sentinelese who killed Chau can't be prosecuted as contact with them and several tribes on the islands is illegal in a bid to protect their indigenous way of life and shield them from diseases.

The Chau family posted this statement regarding his death on his Instagram account on Wednesday

Chau was a preacher who had visited the Andaman and Nicobar islands in the past, a police source said

Chau hired a fishing dinghy and, aided by the fishermen, reached the vicinity of the island on November 16, before transferring to a canoe (pictured, a canoe he used in October)

Chau's last Instagram post featured a picture of a waterfall (above) thought to be in the Andaman islands

'Adventure awaits. So do leeches,' Chau wrote in the caption for his final Instagram album on November 2

Meanwhile, one of Chau's friends revealed to DailyMail.com that he was 'committed' to travelling to the remote island, deep in the Indian Ocean, to preach Christianity to the tribesmen and had been planning the trip for at least three years.

Neil MacLeod, of Stornaway, Scotland, said he met Chau on a flight from London to Phoenix, Arizona, in October 2015.

'I saw him reading some Christian literature and I'm a Christian and we started talking,' he said.

MacLeod, 47, said Chau told him he had recently returned from India and was trying to figure out how to travel to the remote North Sentinel Island in the Bay of Bengal.

'He mentioned that he wanted to go to these islands, the islands where he has now died,' MacLeod said. 'I had heard of these islands and I know how dangerous they are, so I was surprised by that.

If you want me to get actually shot or even killed with an arrow then so be it. I think I could be more useful alive though… John Chau in his journal entry

'He recognized the dangers of travelling there, but I think he had a sense of call. This was something he was working on for three years. He was committed to going there. In his view, he was trying to help these people.

'There are islands that are nearby and he was making relationships and connections to help him get to the islands.'

Since the flight, MacLeod said he had emailed back and forth with Chau, who he described as 'magnetic' and 'charming.'

'He was a lovely character and wanted to help people. The thing that came across was what a delight it was to be in his company.

'He was such a warm and engaging and friendly kind of fellow. You might have an idea of what a missionary might be like, he was a million miles from that. I think he's a real loss. I'm just very sorry about what has happened.'

MacLeod said Chau was based in Portland, Washington, and working as an EMT at the time. He said he had helped during major incidents, including in the wake of Hurricane Katrina in 2005.

'He was a free wheel so he would go to incidents, like major incidents around the world and look to help,' he said. He had worked with FEMA when he went down to Katrina. He was working there. He's worked in some pretty rough places.'

The North Sentinel island is out of bounds even to the Indian navy in a bid to protect its reclusive inhabitants who number only about 150

The Sentinelese tribe are an indigenous tribe who live on North Sentinal Island, lies around 450 miles from the coast of Thailand and more than 745 miles from mainland India

He also paid tribute to Chau on Twitter, writing: 'He readily spoke of his calling to serve the Sentinelese. His calling came from a higher authority. He died a servant of the Lord. Saddened by his loss. He was a lovely guy.'

Others flocked to Chau's Instagram to pay tribute, with one friend writing: 'You were a real explorer out to understand the boundaries of terrestrial human travels.

'Those boundaries are seemingly electric at first touch... and you were the first to touch.'

Another added: 'So proud of you John. You are a true hero and it was such an honor to know you. Thank you for your obedience and passion, it's inspiring.'

A police source told Reuters that Chau was a preacher who had visited the nearby Andaman and Nicobar islands in the past. Police have learned he had a strong desire to meet the Sentinelese and preach on the island

Chau was a Christian missionary who wanted to interact with members of the Sentinelese tribe, according to International Christian Concern.

William Stark, ICC's regional manager, paid tribute to Chau and condemned his killing.

'We here at International Christian Concern are extremely concerned by the reports of an American missionary being murdered in India's Andaman and Nicobar Islands.

'Our thoughts and prayers go out to both John's family and friends. A full investigation must be launched in this this murder and those responsible must be brought to justice. India must take steps to counter the growing wave of intolerance and violence.'

Chau tried to reach the island on November 14 but couldn't make it, police sources said

He returned two days later better prepared. He left a dinghy midway and took a canoe to the island alone

Police launched an investigation after they were contacted by the US consulate in the southern city of Chennai, which had been in touch with Chau's mother.

The world's most isolated tribe: Who are the Sentinelese and why are they hostile to outsiders? The Sentinelese tribe has attacked almost everyone who has entered their territory. Because of their rejection of the outside world, little is known about them - including what they call themselves. What is known has been gleaned from viewing them from boats moored far enough away from the tribesmen, who carry spears, bows and arrows, or from the few times the tribe allowed authorities to come close enough to hand over coconuts. The Sentinelese attracted international attention in the wake of the 2004 Asian tsunami, when a member of the tribe was photographed on a beach, firing arrows at a helicopter that was checking on their welfare. Today, the island is out of bounds even to the Indian navy in a bid to protect its reclusive inhabitants who number only about 150. Campaigns by non-profit and local organizations have led the Indian government to abandon plans to contact the Sentinelese. Survival International works to ensure that no further attempts are made to contact the tribe. It is now illegal to have any contact with the tribe and last year, the Indian government said even taking photographs or making videos of aboriginal Andaman tribes would be punishable with imprisonment of up to three years. They say the Sentinelese have thrived on the small forested island, which is approximately the size of Manhattan, for up to 55,000 years. The women wear fibre strings tied around their waists, necks and heads. The men also wear necklaces and headbands, but with a thicker waist belt. From a distance, they appear healthy and thriving and observers have noted many children and pregnant women at times. According to Survival, the Sentinelese hunt and gather in the forest, and fish in the coastal waters by make narrow outrigger canoes, which can only be used in shallow waters as they are steered and propelled with a pole like a punt.

A spokeswoman for the US consulate in Chennai said: 'We are aware of reports concerning a US citizen in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.

'When a US citizen is missing, we work closely with local authorities as they carry out their search efforts,' she added, but declined to provide further details over privacy concerns.

Chau's Instagram shows he spent much of his time travelling and he documented his exploits on a blog called The Rugged Trail.

His last post on Instagram was shared on November 2. Alongside a series of pictures taken in the jungle, he wrote: 'Adventure awaits. So do leeches.'

Chau also spoke about his passion for travel in an interview with The Outbound Collective in 2014.

When asked where was on his 'must-do adventure list,' he said: 'Going back to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands in India is on the top - there's so much to see and do there!'

He also revealed his personal motto was: 'Make the most of every good opportunity today because you don't know what's going to happen tomorrow!'

Speaking about his inspirations, he said: 'Adventurers like John Muir, Bruce Olson, and David Livingston inspire me to go travel and explore, and I definitely get my inspiration for life from Jesus.'

Meanwhile, Survival International, a London-based organization that has been campaigning to protect the indigenous tribes living in the Andamans, called Chau's death a 'tragedy' that should 'never have been allowed to happen.'

The group's international director, Stephen Corry, said: 'This tragedy should never have been allowed to happen. The Indian authorities should have been enforcing the protection of the Sentinelese and their island for the safety of both the tribe, and outsiders.

'Instead, a few months ago the authorities lifted one of the restrictions that had been protecting the Sentinelese tribe's island from foreign tourists, which sent exactly the wrong message, and may have contributed to this terrible event.'

He added: 'It's not impossible that the Sentinelese have just been infected by deadly pathogens to which they have no immunity, with the potential to wipe out the entire tribe.

'The Sentinelese have shown again and again that they want to be left alone, and their wishes should be respected.'

====== 1846 ========

VIDEO: HORRIFYING MOMENT VICTIM WRITHES IN PAIN AFTER BEING STABBED IN HACKNEY

Video: Horrifying moment victim writhes in pain after being stabbed

This is the horrifying moment an unidentified man writhes in pain with a knife still lodged in his back as people assist him. The stabbing happened in Hackney, London. The victim survived after being taken to a...

====== 1847 ========

STABBING VICTIM LEFT WRITHING AROUND WITH KNIFE IN HIS BACK AFTER DAYLIGHT ATTACK IN EAST LONDON

This is the shocking moment police officers scramble to help a stabbing victim with a knife still lodged in his back after a vicious daylight attack in London.

Footage shot in Hackney, east London, on Thursday last week shows the unidentified victim writhing around in a pool of his own blood as passers-by attempt to help him.

As the camera zooms in, a large cleaver can be seen sticking out of the victim's back through his jacket.

The blade could be seen sticking out of the victims back as passers-by stopped him from rolling onto it

The stunned cameraman is heard saying 'where is the knife?' before quickly adding 'that's it there, in his back'.

Locals rushed to try and help the man and screamed 'don't move, don't move' when he tried to roll over.

Three women were caught on tape trying to help the man, who was said to have survived the horrifying stabbing after being rushed to a nearby hospital.

A Metropolitan Police spokesperson later confirmed two men had been arrested.

A spokesperson said: 'Police were called at approximately 11:00hrs on Thursday, 15 November to reports of a man stabbed in Homerton Road, E9.

'Officers and London Ambulance Service attended and found a man, aged 25, suffering stab injuries.

A police officer could be seen holding the man steady as he writhed around in pain on the floor

Three women helped the man who was taken to hospital with non-life-threatening injuries and later survived

'He was taken to an east London hospital where his injuries were assessed as not life threatening.

'It has been established that the man sustained his injuries in Kingsmead Way before making his way to Homerton Road where he was found.

'Two men - aged 19 and 23 - have been arrested. Both have been bailed pending further enquiries to a date in mid-December.'

The disturbing footage emerges as police forces battle a year of violence around the country, with the number of murders in London soaring past 120 earlier this month.

On Wednesday it was revealed that the number of children admitted to hospital with stab wounds has risen by more than 80 per cent in the last three years.

In the year up to September this year, 813 people aged 18 and under received treatment for knife attacks in England, NHS figures show.

====== 1848 ========

TEXTS BETWEEN KILLER DAD CHRIS WATTS AND WIFE REVEAL CRUMBLING MARRIAGE

Newly released investigative documents have shed new light on the case of a father who strangled his wife and their two young daughters.

Christopher Lee Watts, 33, was sentenced to life in prison on Monday for murdering his pregnant wife Shanann, their daughters four-year-old Bella and three-year-old Celeste, and unborn son Nico.

Watts pleaded guilty to killing his family on the night of August 12 in their in Frederick, Colorado home.

Now more than 2,000 pages of documents about the case from the Weld County District Attorney's Office have been released to CBS4 News through a public records request.

The documents include chilling text messages between Watts and Shanann discussing their crumbling marriage, and an interview with Watts' alleged mistress, Nichol Kessinger.

Christopher Lee Watts, 33, was sentenced to life in prison on Monday for murdering his pregnant wife and their children. New documents shed light on the case

Watts killed his pregnant wife Shanann, their daughters four-year-old Bella and three-year-old Celeste, and unborn son Nico. Text messages indicate the relationship was frayed

Watts' alleged mistress, Nichol Kessinger (above) claimed that his financial troubles were the main catalyst for the murders. Prosecutors say he wanted to start a new life with her, though

Kessinger told investigators that Watts and his wife 'did not get along well and their financial life was also troubling,' investigators wrote.

'She said Chris was struggling with finances and now he had a third kid on the way and she does not know if he could afford another kid,' the report said.

'Shanann was not responsive to this financial trouble. Nichol said Chris always told her he wanted a third child and wanted a boy.'

Kessinger said that while she doesn't believe her affair with Watts was the catalyst for the murders, it may have 'accelerated the process.' She told them that 'money is the biggest catalyst for this event happening.'

Prosecutors disagree, though, believing that Watt's motive for the murder was his desire to start a new life with Kessinger, whom he had been secretly dating for about two months.

May 29, 2018

Shanann films a video revealing to Watts that she is pregnant for a third time. It doesn't seem to reveal any sign of problems in the relationship.

Investigators write: 'Shanann began filming in the kitchen of 2825 Saratoga Trail. she stepped in front of the camera briefly to show off her shirt with the embossed words, 'Oops… we did it again.' When she stepped out of the camera's view Dieter (the family dog) ran off to welcome Watts entering the home.

'As Watts walked into the kitchen, he halted mid stride and stared in Shanann's direction. His confused expression transformed into a grin and he walked to her saying, 'We did it again.'

'When Watts returned in view of the camera he is holding a pregnancy test and they discuss the positive result. Watts leaned in, kissed Shanann and, with a large grin, says, 'l guess when you want to, it happens – Wow.''

Kessinger told police that Watts was struggling with finances, and that she did not know if he could afford another kid.

The video was posted to Facebook on June 11.

July 6: Shanann and Bella are seen during a trip to North Carolina without Watts

July 9

In late June, Shanann traveled to North Carolina with daughters Bella and Celeste for a six-week trip visiting Watts' and her own parents.

Watts joined them for only one week of the trip.

Text messages between the married couple over the five weeks they were apart indicate that relations between Shanann and her in-laws were frayed.

'Shanann discussed how Watts' mother gave Celeste ice cream with nuts in the ingredients,' investigators wrote, summarizing the messages.

'Shanann felt this was done in defiance of Shanann's warnings of Celeste's food allergies.

'Shanann told Watts, 'You should call your dad and tell him you did not appreciate your mom putting your daughter at risk today, nor do you like that she teased our girls.

'You should also say you don't appreciate her saying they have to learn they can't always get what they want! (Referring to ice cream) they are 2 and 4!'

July 24

The couple had been apart for nearly a month now, with Shanann and the children in North Carolina visiting Watts' parents.

At 6.02pm, Shanann texted Watts: 'l realized during this trip what's missing in our relationship! lt's only one way emotions and feelings. I can't come back like this. I need you to meet me halfway. You don't consider others at all, nor think about others feelings.'

Watts replied that he was sorry and he loved her.

Shanann responded: 'l try to give you space, but while you are working and living the bachelor life l'm carrying our 3rd and fighting with our two kids daily and trying to work and make money. lt's not hard texting love you and miss you. lf you don't mean it then I get it, but we need to talk. I kept looking at my phone all night and no response from you. Like seriously! We didn't just start dating yesterday! We've been together 8 years and have 2.5 kids together.'

Shanann and her daughters are seen on July 29 during a six-week visit to North Carolina

August 5

Two days before Shanann and the girls returned to Colorado, her texts with Watts indicate things were not going well in the relationship.

10.34pm: Shanann texts Watts: 'Being away from you, it's not the help I missed because I handle that. lt was exhausting, but with school that's not hard. I missed the smell of you, you touching me when l'm cooking, you touching me in bed, you touching me period! I missed holding you and snuggling with you. I missed eating with you, watching tv with you. I missed staring at you, I missed making love with you. I missed everything about you. I couldn't wait to touch you, hold you, kiss you, make love to you, smell you, laugh with you. I couldn't wait to celebrate 8 years with you… lf you are done, don't love me, don't want to work this out, not happy anymore and only staying because of kids, I NEED you to tell me.'

11.00pm: Shanann asked Watts: 'Would you stay with me if we didn't have kids?'

11.09pm: Shanann asked Watts, 'l just don't get it. You don't fall out of love in 5 weeks.'

Minutes later she pondered, 'How can you sleep? Our marriage is crumbling in front of us and you can sleep.'

August 7 to 12: The murders

Shanann and the girls returned to Colorado on August 7. Her last post on social media was around 4.30pm on August 9.

On August 10, Shanann traveled to Scottsdale, Arizona for a work event, leaving the two young girls behind with Watts.

A photo taken by a friend shows her at a group dinner at Yard House in Scottsdale on August 11. She returned to Colorado the following day.

The murders took place late the night of August 12 or early August 13, within hours of Shanann's return home.

Watts wrapped Shanann's body in a fitted sheet and buried her in a shallow grave on the property of the oil and gas company where he worked, investigators said.

August 13

'During a respite following the murder of his family, and disposing of their bodies at a desolate well site, Watts searched Google for the lyrics to 'Battery' by Metallica,' the report says.

The lyrics include the lines: 'lunacy has found me – Cannot stop the battery – Pounding out aggression – Turns into obsession – Cannot kill the battery – Cannot kill the family.'

The following day, Watts gave a television interview making a national appeal for his family's safe return.

Christopher Lee Watts, 33, gave the above interview on Tuesday, pleading for the safe return of his wife and daughters. Police say he confessed to their murders the following day

August 15

Frederick Police administered a polygraph test to Watts.

Investigators say he came to the test in loose clothing and was wearing no wedding ring.

The polygraph test indicated Watts was lying, and the tester confronted Watts with the deception. After a long conversation, Watts admitted to killing his wife, but insisted that she had killed the girls. He admitted to putting the girls in the oil tanks.

The bodies of daughters Bella and Celeste were found in an oil tank near the grave on August 15. The report graphically details how the bodies of the girls were recovered from the oil tank.

Watts was arrested and charged with all three murders.

Aftermath

Investigators searched the phone of Kessinger, who was having an affair with Watts. They found searches for sexual videos and positions, and hours' worth of searches for 'Shanann Watts.'

After the murders police say Kessinger searched for 'can cops trace text messages', and made multiple searches for Amber Frey, the mistress of convicted murderer Scott Peterson.

She searched whether 'people hate Amber Frey' and researched Frey's subsequent book deal.

Watts' father Ronnie told investigators that his son 'described Shanann as controlling, narcissistic and possible bi-polar,' though he had not seen any verbal of physical altercations between his son and Shanann.

Watts accepted a plea deal earlier this month to avoid facing the death penalty.

He was sentenced to three life terms in prison, without the possibility of parole.

====== 1849 ========

VIDEO: MOMENT MAN IN BURQA AND WOMAN WEARING BIKE HELMET WALK INTO BANK

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1850 ========

MAN IN BURQA, WOMAN IN MOTORCYCLE HELMET WALK INTO MELBOURNE ANZ BANK TO TEST POLITICAL CORRECTNESS

A man in a burqa and a woman in a motorcycle helmet have walked into a Melbourne bank to make a point about political correctness.

Conservative activist Avi Yemini, who is running as an Australian Liberty Alliance candidate at tomorrow's Victorian election, and the right-wing party's president Debbie Robinson entered an ANZ branch in the city on Friday afternoon.

Bank security guards raised no objection to Mr Yemini, a former Israeli soldier, wearing a black Islamic outfit as he carried a handbag during the lunch hour.

Conservative activist Avi Yemini (pictured), who is running as an Australian Liberty Alliance candidate at tomorrow's Victorian election wore a burqa into a Melbourne city bank branch

Mrs Robinson however was approached by security as she wore a black helmet over a blue suit jacket, moments after arriving at the bank on Collins Street.

She asked why she had to remove her helmet while her party colleague, running as an upper house candidate for Southern Metro, could keep his burqa on.

'Well, how come that lady can wear a burqa?,' she said.

The bank employee struggled to answer her question.

The right-wing party's president Debbie Robinson (pictured) entered an ANZ bank in the city on Friday afternoon

Bank security guards raised no objection to Avi Yemini (pictured), a former Israeli soldier, wearing a black Islamic outfit as he carried a handbag

'Yeah, I know but it's um,' he said.

Still wearing her motorcycle helmet, Mrs Robinson protested about being discriminated against.

'So I have to take this off and she doesn't have to take that off?,' she said.

The security guard still struggled to answer her.

'Yeah, I'm not going to get into that,' he said.

At that point, Mrs Robinson told him she thought the double standard was ridiculous.

Mrs Robinson was approached by security as she wore a black helmet over a blue suit jacket, moments after arriving at the branch on Collins Street

Mrs Robinson then removed her helmet and made her point about political correctness as Mr Yemini walked by her in a burqa

'Why? What's the difference? I feel like that's kind of discriminating against me,' she said.

'I mean she's sitting there with that on. Why do I have to take this off?.'

Mrs Robinson then removed her helmet and made her point about political correctness as Mr Yemini walked by her in a burqa.

'I think it's really unfair I have to take this off and people can walk around with those on,' she said.

'I think that's terrible in this day in age. How come you can wear that? That's not fair.'

She protested that it was unfair she had to remove her motorcycle helmet as her political colleague was allowed to continue wearing a burqa

Mr Yemini then removed his facial covering.

The conservative Jewish activist, who campaigns against Islamist extremists, mocked the security guard for being politically correct.

'You're a good man for standing up for multiculturalism,' he said.

'Don't you feel safer?'

Like One Nation, the Australian Liberty Alliance is in favour of banning full facial coverings in public.

One Nation leader Pauline Hanson last year wore a burqa into the Senate chamber to make this point.

Daily Mail Australia has contacted ANZ to clarify their policy on full facial coverings in bank branches.

====== 1851 ========

LONDON POLICE KNOCK MOPED THIEVES OFF BIKES IN NEW TACTIC TO HALT CRIMEWAVE

Stunning new footage shows police knocking moped muggers off their bikes in fresh tactics to stamp out the scooter crime-wave that has plagued London.

Dashcam video released today shows a squad of specially trained drivers carrying out so called 'tactical contacts', which involve tipping crooks off their scooters or dumping them on the bonnets of police cars.

One incredulous rider raises his hands in indignation after he is sent clattering to the ground, and another told police: 'I took my helmet off so I thought you'd stop chasing me.'

The Met says it only uses the tactic as a last resort to stop muggers who are a risk to pedestrians or putting police in danger.

A moped criminal is left scrambling on the bonnet of a police car in footage released today

Police say they are now carrying out 'tactical contacts' every day and have used the method 63 times so far.

Sergeant Tony McGovern, who is one of the specially-trained 'Scorpion' drivers using the tactic, said: 'They think that if they remove their helmets we'll stop the pursuit, sometimes we may but, as you can see, we have used tactical contact against riders without helmets.'

He said police drivers have to quickly weigh up the risk to the public and the rider before carrying out the manoeuvres, as fleeing criminals often ride along busy pavements or behind railings to evade capture.

The method has been rolled out around the country after a seemingly-unstoppable crime wave gripped the capital this year, with scooter yobs grabbing people's phones, watches and bags, smashing their way into jewellery shops and stabbing anyone who got in their way.

Some moped robbers have hit 30 victims in one hour alone, with those coming out of tube stations seen as an easy target. Police officers have also been injured by thieves riding directly into them.

Scotland Yard was previously frustrated in catching the criminals, who often discarded their helmets to make officers think twice before chasing them.

Police say they not afraid to mount pavements to stop moped thieves getting away

The video shows the specially trained drivers pursuing the fleeing crooks on their bikes

A thief is then rammed from behind before he is flung onto a bonnet as he is hit by a police car

What is police guidance on 'tactical contact'? Police said guidance on the use of vehicles in stopping mopeds is similar to that surrounding the use of force by officers on foot. Officers are told they can only use force when it is 'absolutely necessary, reasonable and proportionate'. Police car drivers have to keep this in mind when deciding whether to crash into a fleeing moped mugger. Whereas police may have been more reluctant to chase robbers without helmets in previous years, the spike in moped crime has concentrated the minds of Scotland Yard chiefs. More training for 'scorpion' drivers and the increasingly dangerous tactics used by muggers has led to the method being more widely used.

Victims of the spate of incidents included ex chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne and comedian Michael McIntyre, who was robbed of his Rolex by two men on a moped while parked outside his children's school.

But Scotland Yard chiefs have now vowed to get tough with the gangs as they attempt to take back control of the streets.

Met Commander Amanda Pearson said: 'There is a perception that if you remove your helmet or fail to stop for police when requested to do so we will not take any further course of action. This is untrue.

'The public quite rightly expects us to intervene to keep London safe. Our highly trained police drivers weigh up the risks and decide upon the most appropriate tactics in those circumstances.

'Offenders on mopeds and motorcycles who attempt to evade the police are making a choice that puts themselves and others at risk.

'So our message is clear: we can, we will and we do target those involved in moped and motorcycle crime at every opportunity.'

Police released this footage to show how difficult it is to follow a speeding bike as its rider weaves in and out of small streets on a London housing estate

The Met says it has cut 'moped-enabled crime' by 36 per cent in the last year, from 19,000 offences to 12,500.

Police say from January to October last year there were 19,455 such offences across London but from January to October this year the numbers had dropped to 12,419 offences.

And in the same period last year there were 12,192 moped thefts across London compared to January 2018 to October 2018 when there were 8,261 offences - a reduction of 32 per cent.

Commander Pearson added: 'We are not complacent and we will continue to work tirelessly across London to maintain this downward trend.'

Commanders say no stop carried out by the operation targeting moped criminals has needed to be referred to the police watchdog, although three incidents involving mopeds are being looked at by the IOPC.

The moped crook caught by new DNA spray As part of the new blitz on moped thieves, police are spraying riders with so-called 'DNA spray', which links them to their crimes when they are eventually caught. Mohammad Khaleghi was sprayed with the substance as he rode his moped dangerously in Camden in May in this year. When police later caught up with him, a UV light exposed the spray and he was jailed for driving without a licence, failing to stop and dangerous driving. Mohammad Khaleghi when he failed to stop on his moped in Camden this year The spray is visible under UV light, even in daylight, and helps link criminals to crimes Over 6,000 new forensic tagging sprays have been handed to local officers on London's streets. The sprays are used to 'tag' a suspect or suspicious moped without putting the officer at a serious risk of harm. UV scanners at police stations can then pick up whether an offender has been sprayed- and so they can be linked back to other crimes. Chief Inspector Jim Corbett said: '6,900 officers have been trained so far. We are going to train everyone. 'If they spray an offender in a location, a custody UV light will pick it up. It's contributing to cutting crime while not putting themselves at risk.'

A gang robbed 103 phones in an 18 day reign of terror across the capital - including targeting ex-Chancellor George Osborne. Pictured: The gang in action

Among the most shocking of the incidents that hit the capital in recent years were those involving Nathan Gilmaney and Troy Thomas, who tried to rob as many people as possible in a quickfire series of robberies.

They killed 28-year-old Abdul Samad for his iPhone and little more than 'aggression and blood lust' as they swept across west London on a scooter.

A chilling video shows Gilmaney and Thomas the criminals calmly return to their victim to demand his PIN number before knifing him.

The pair, from Maida Vale, west London, were jailed for more than 20 years each in June.

Following their arrest, police noticed a 40 per cent drop in that type of offending.

Politician turned Evening Standard editor was also hit by moped robbers, who made a grab at his mobile as he left BBC headquarters in Portland Place.

He said: 'I was physically unharmed but felt shocked and stunned. The incident happened so quickly that I barely registered what had happened until afterwards. The scooter was so close that it almost brushed past me. Had it hit me, I have no doubt I would have been seriously injured.'

Footage showed the victim working on a device at the Broad and Bean Cafe in Archway, north London as a helmet wearing thief walks in

Londoners suffered 60 moped-crimes a day Shocking figures showed at one time there were more than 60 moped thefts a day on London's streets. Moped or motorbike-enabled crimes were up 50 per cent on the last 12 months, figures published in June revealed. Separate statistics revealed 86 per cent of robberies and 78 per cent of burglaries in the UK went unsolved last year.

Another video last year laid bare how brazen the robbers had become after one was filmed walking into a busy cafe and pulling a laptop from a woman's hands.

Footage showed the victim working on her device at the Broad and Bean Cafe in Archway, north London as the helmet wearing thief walks in.

He quickly grabs the computer before running back out of the door and jumping on a waiting moped, which then speeds off. The raid took less than 10 seconds.

Café owner Valbona Sadiku said it was the second time moped robbers have targeted the premises in just three weeks.

She told MailOnline: 'It's unbelievable that these moped gangs will now actually enter peoples' property, it's gone to another level, it's horrific.'

====== 1852 ========

VIDEO: METROPOLITAN POLICE STOP MOPED MUGGER SUSPECT IN LONDON

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1853 ========

VIDEO: MET POLICE PURSUE MOPED MUGGER SUSPECT ON THE STREETS OF LONDON

Video: Met Police pursue moped mugger suspect on the streets of London

A Metropolitan Police driver pursue a moped mugger suspect on the streets of London. The Met has released footage showing its new tactics for tackling moped muggers in the city.

====== 1854 ========

VIDEO: MOMENT BASE JUMPER LOSES HIS LIFE AFTER PARACHUTE FAILS TO OPEN

Video: Moment base jumper loses his life after parachute fails to open

This is the moment a base jumper loses his life after his parachute failed to open, sending him crashing to the ground. The man died instantly after hitting rocks of the sandy beach.

====== 1855 ========

THRILL-SEEKER FALLS TO HIS DEATH IN PORTUGAL AFTER HIS PARACHUTE FAILED

This is the sickening moment a thrill-seeker loses his life after his parachute fails to open in time and he crashes to the ground.

The base jumper's friend landed safely moments after his pal - identified locally as a 50-year-old German - died instantly after hitting rocks at the back of the sandy beach.

Distressing footage taken by an onlooker showed the horrific sequence of events leading up to yesterday's tragedy in the Portuguese fishing town of Nazare, famous as a surfing destination where world records have been broken.

A man thought to be the third base jumper filmed standing by the pair that leapt off the edge of the cliff, could be heard yelling: 'No, no' as he witnessed what had happened before shouting out to the survivor in English, 'Are you okay?'

A woman, also speaking in English, could be overheard saying, 'Oh my God'.

The dead man's chute only opened after he hit the ground.

The incident happened just after midday at Praia do Norte in Nazare - North Beach in English.

A currently unnamed base jumper leapt off a cliff and fell to his death after his parachute failed to activate

Leading Portuguese daily Correio da Manha said the victim was a 50-year-old German. Officials confirmed he was a foreigner.

Police and firefighters were among the emergency services who raced to the scene, but they could nothing to save him.

He was pronounced dead just before 1pm.

The tragedy happened near the same spot where a 29-year-old Swedish man died when his parachute failed to open in July 2013.

The base jumper's friend landed safely moments after his pal - identified locally as a 50-year-old German

He had travelled to Portugal with some Norwegian friends to pursue his passion for base jumping, which involves participants jumping from fixed objects such as bridges and using parachutes to break their fall.

The new victim has not been named.

The cliffs at Nazare are a popular spot for base jumping and enthusiasts usually upload videos of their feats onto social media.

Praia do Norte is famed for its monster waves, which form due to the presence of the underwater Nazare Canyon.

In November 2011 surfer Garrett McNamara surfed a record-breaking wave measuring 78 feet.

Brazilian surfer Rodrigo Koxa broke the previous record by surfing an 80-foot wave on November 8 last year.

Maritime Police chief Paulo Agostinho said the German base jumper fell around 310 feet (95 metres) and confirmed the man he jumped with was a Portuguese friend.

The height of the cliff meant the dead man would have hit the ground at just under 100mph.

Psychologists are now assisting friends of the victim who witnessed the tragedy.

An autopsy was due to take place at regional capital Leiria.

====== 1856 ========

VIDEO: TRUMP IN CALIFORNIA PRAISING 'OUR GREAT HEROES' AMID WILDFIRES

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1857 ========

TRUMP TELLS OFFICIALS DO 'MORE RAKING AND CLEANING' AT WILDFIRE SITE

Donald Trump told officials they need to do ‘more raking and cleaning’ as he surveyed still smoldering remains at a trailer park which was destroyed by the Northern California wildfires last week.

At least 79 people have died and more than 1,200 others are reported missing, authorities said as POTUS toured the apocalyptic landscape ravaged by the fires today.

‘We’re going to have to work quickly. Hopefully this is going to be the last of these because this was a really, really bad one,’ Trump said as he walked among the rubble where the Skyway Villa Mobile Home and RV Park in Paradise once stood.

Donald Trump told officials they need to do ‘more raking and cleaning’ as he surveyed still smoldering remains at a trailer park which was destroyed by the Northern California wildfires

A rescue worker and her cadaver dog search the Paradise Gardens apartments for victims of the Camp Fire in Paradise earlier today

'I think everybody's seen the light and I don't think we'll have this again to this extent,’ Trump said.

'I think people have to see this really to understand it,’ he added.

The president landed at the Beale Air Force base in Northern California hours after he blamed the deadly wildfires on poor forest management yet again, re-igniting fury among West Coast residents and firefighters.

He walked side by side with Paradise Mayor Jody Jones and surveyed the devastation of the once lively-town in person.

After landing in Yuba County, near the Camp Fire aftermath, around 1pm Eastern time (10am Pacific time), Trump was given a 30-minute helicopter tour of the area flying through the thick haze of smoke then headed out on foot to see rescue crews and the incinerated remains of the town.

Nodding toward the remnants of Paradise, Trump promised that state and federal partners would ‘get this cleaned up’ and ‘take care of the floors of the forest’.

The President once again appeared to blame forest management and made an eyebrow-raising comparison to a Nordic Nation.

President Donald Trump visits the charred wreckage of Skyway Villa Mobile Home and RV Park

Trump is seen visiting a neighborhood impacted by the Wolsey Fire with FEMA Administrator Brock Long and Governor Jerry Brown

Trump talks with California Governor elect Gavin Newsom and another official during a visit to Paradise

'Other countries do it differently, it’s a whole different story,' Trump said, citing purported comments from the president of Finland on how the Nordic nation deals with its forests.

He said they engage in 'raking and cleaning things and they don't have any problem'.

California has 33 million acres of forest, according to a University of California web page.

But experts claimed they wouldn't compare California to Nordic nations when it comes to managing their forests

Trump also tweeted last night calling search and rescue responders 'Great Heroes]

Federal agencies overseen by the Trump administration own and manage about 19 million acres of that total.

'I perhaps wouldn't compare Finland and California climate-wise’,' tweeted Veli-Pekka Kivimäki, a Finnish defense researcher.

‘And besides, 80 per cent of the country is classified as forest land. We don’t exactly manicure all of it'.

While experts agree that tree clearing and other forest management work is necessary, the Trump administration has proposed slashing tens of millions of dollars from the Department of Interior and US Forest Service budgets.

Asked at one point if the massive fire had changed his mind on climate change, Trump said: 'No, no. I have a strong opinion. I want a great climate,' he added.

The remains of residences leveled by the wildfire in Paradise as 12,000 homes were destroyed

A row of cars destroyed by fire along with every house in this Northern California neighborhood

Charlie Ramirez and her husband Michael John Ramirez return to their burned down home for the first time to try to recover items from the rubble in Paradise

Fire and forest management experts criticized Trump last weekend for blaming the wildfires on poor forest management and misappropriation of funds. 'Remedy now, or no more Fed payments!' Trump vowed on Twitter.

Firefighters in Northern California have mixed thoughts on President Donald Trump's criticism of forest management but say their main focus is fighting the blaze.

As firefighters returned to a command center in the Northern California city of Chico on Friday after 24-hour shifts, some learned for the first time that Trump was scheduled to visit Saturday.

Firefighter Joshua Watson said he viewed the upcoming visit as a sign of support for firefighters, 'no matter what you think about him'.

Gary Jacobs, a firefighter sent from San Mateo County, said everybody has their own opinions and he stays out of politics.

A home burns as the Camp Fire rages through Paradise, Califofrnia on November 8

A home burns as the Camp Fire rages through Paradise, Califofrnia on November 8

smoke and ash from the nearby Camp Fire in Chico, California that raged on November 7

Trump initially responded to the fires by blaming them on 'gross mismanagement' of forests in a tweet on Saturday.

Authorities attribute the death toll partly to the speed with which flames raced through the town with little advance warning, driven by howling winds and fueled by drought-desiccated scrub and trees.

The Butte County disaster coincided with a flurry of smaller blazes in southern California, including the Woolsey Fire.

The Woolsey fire has been linked with three fatalities and has destroyed at least 500 structures in the mountains and foothills near the Malibu coast west of Los Angeles.

The latest blazes have capped a two deadly wildfire seasons in California that scientists largely attribute to prolonged drought they say is symptomatic of climate change.

The cause of the fires are under investigation. But two electric utilities have said they sustained equipment problems close to the origins of the blazes around the time they were reported.

====== 1858 ========

VIDEO: RITA ORA CAUGHT LIP SYNCING DURING MACY'S THANKSGIVING PARADE

Video: Rita Ora lip syncs during Macy's Thanksgiving Parade in NYC

Pop artist Rita Ora is caught on camera caught lip syncing to her music while on a float during the 2018 Macy's Day Thanksgiving Parade in New York City.

====== 1859 ========

ALABAMA MALL SHOOTING: BLACK FRIDAY HORROR WITH GUNMAN DEAD AND TWO INJURED

A 21-year-old gunman was shot dead by police after opening fire at a busy Alabama mall on Thursday night.

The shooting happened at 9.30pm on at the Riverchase Galleria in Hoover, a nearby suburb of Birmingham.

It started when the gunman, an unnamed 21-year-old from Hueytown, got into a fight with an 18-year-old boy.

It is unclear if they knew each other beforehand or if the fight was shopping-related.

Witnesses told WBRC in Alabama that the shooting happened 'between JCPenney and Footaction near the food court.'

The gunman opened fire, injuring the 18-year-old and a 12-year-old girl who was nearby, then fled. He was shot dead by police who were nearby and ran towards the gunfire after hearing the shots ring out.

Both victims were taken to hospitals and are expected to survive. The 12-year-old girl was shot once. None of the youngsters involved have been named.

The shooting sparked horror and panic among the crowds of bargain hunters who had flocked to the mall after Thanksgiving dinner to snap up discounts.

They took to social media in confusion to describe hearing shots in the mall.

It was unclear at first if it was an intended mass shooter.

Photos and videos of the mass panic caused by the shooting were shared on social media.

One Twitter user said: 'I’m in the parking lot of the Riverchase Galleria in Alabama where a shooting just happened.

'I’m so shaky right now I’m sorry if I don't make any sense. The suspect is dead. My prayers go out to those injured.'

Videos posted to social media showed shoppers fleeing in terror as shots rang out at the mall following a fight between a young gunman and a teenage boy

Mall staff later tweeted: 'We are devastated by the incident that happened tonight in our shopping center.

'We are working closely with the Hoover Police Department and are grateful for their swift action to contain the situation.

'While there is no current danger to our community, the shopping center will remain closed until further notice.'

Hoover Police Chief Nick Derzis said on Thursday night: 'They heard the gunfire, they engaged the subject and they took out the threat.'

An 18-year-old was taken to hospital in a 'serious' condition while a 12-year-old girl had to have emergency surgery

====== 1860 ========

VIDEO: DAN DOTSON REVEALS MAN FOUND £5.8 MILLION CASH INSIDE STORAGE UNIT

Video: Dan Dotson reveals man found £5.8 million cash inside storage unit

Famous American auctioneer Dan Dotson posted a video telling the story of how he was told by a woman at charity auction in Indio, California that a man's found £5.8MILLION in cash inside a £390 second-hand storage...

====== 1861 ========

VIDEO: EMOTIONAL SHORT CHRISTMAS FILM EXPLORES THE GIFT OF LOVE

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 1862 ========

CHRISTMAS AD TEAR-JERKER MADE FOR £50 SEES FANS CALL ON JOHN LEWIS TO HIRE FILMMAKER

Fans of a tear-jerking Christmas viral video made for just £50 are calling for John Lewis to hire the budget filmmaker for their next festive advert.

The short fictional tale racked up more than 5million views on Facebook this week after Phil Beastall posted it in response to the store's big-budget production.

The 32-year-old's video, entitled Love is a Gift, shows a man - played by actor Chris Ilston - ticking off the days to Christmas, seemingly in anticipation of festivities and presents.

Instead, on the day, he opens up a cassette box - an annual tradition - and listens to a tape of his tragic mother's final Christmas message from beyond the grave.

Since the emotional tale went viral, Mr Beastall has been inundated with messages from fans who claim the video could have been used instead of the expensive Elton John-themed John Lewis advert.

Fans of a tear-jerking Christmas viral video made for just £50 are calling for John Lewis to hire the budget filmmaker for their next festive advert. Above, a scene from the ad, which is called Love is a Gift. (Above, actor Chris Ilston)

The 2minute 27 second fictional tale shows a man ticking off the days to Christmas, seemingly in anticipation of festivities and presents

Instead, on the day, he opens up a cassette box - an annual tradition - and listens to a tape of his tragic mother's final Christmas message from beyond the grave

The short film racked up more than 5m views on Facebook this week after its creator, Phil Beastall, posted it in response to the store's big-budget production

Others have suggested the store hire Mr Beastall to make their Christmas advert for 2019.

Mr Beastall, from Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire, said: 'People seem to like my film because it's the story that shines through. You don't always need a huge budget, just an impactful narrative that gets the message across.

'I think there's a bit of a revolution going on in the advertising industry. People no longer want to be overtly sold something which makes our job as video producers a lot harder because we have to sell indirectly.

'But the good thing about this is that when selling to consumers, we can focus on selling lifestyles and indirectly sell the products or services that fit that lifestyle.

Mr Beastall, from Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire, made the video in 2014 but was inspired to share it again now after seeing the Elton John advert on TV. Above, tapes the ad's character has listened to over the years - culminating in one from 2014, when he is aged 30. His mother's voice says: 'So this is it. My last tape. I wish I could keep talking to you every Christmas - but it's time to say goodbye'

'A lot of people are struggling financially so to hear that millions is being spent on these campaigns isn't sitting well with people.

'People have been saying that it's just an opportunity to celebrate Elton John and promote his new film.

'Having said that, I enjoyed John Lewis's advert. I liked the fact that a success story like Elton's can start with something as simple as receiving a piano. But if John Lewis knocked on my door tomorrow and said would you want to make next year's film, I would obviously snap it up in an instant.'

Thousands of commenters praised the video online and admitted that it had reduced them to tears.

Since the emotional tale went viral, Mr Beastall has been inundated with messages from fans who claim the video could have been used instead of the expensive Elton John-themed John Lewis advert

Melanie Thomas wrote: 'In tear. I have no words except John Lewis, tell your advertising team they [are] sacked. Stop plugging Elton John's song and get this man to do your adverts.'

Lisa Darling said: 'Best advert ever, maybe John Lewis should pay him a million.'

The response was so overwhelming that Mr Beastall conceded defeat in trying to respond to all the comments because the video attracted so much attention.

Mr Beastall, a professional videographer, dedicated the emotive video to the selflessness of his partner of ten years Claire Higley, the mother of their children Ethan, Eliza and Zara. (The couple are pictured together)

Most touchingly, he received messages of thanks from parents who have lost a child and also children whose parents are no longer alive as the video had had a positive impact on them.

Mr Beastall said: 'A lot of people are saying how it has touched them and made them feel that they can cope a little bit more this Christmas, which is amazing. I never expected that at all. To think people are getting so much from my film. I am blown away.'

He made the video in 2014 but was inspired to share it again now after seeing the Elton John advert on TV.

While the John Lewis ad showcases the goal-driven, hectic world around us, Mr Beastall hopes his video encourages those who watch it to appreciate every day they have with family.

He said: 'I wanted people to watch it and really reflect on what they have around them and take a moment to appreciate how lucky we are.

'In today's society it can be quite easy to forget what we have got because we are so wrapped up in chasing a dream and a goal many years from now which may not end up happening.

'Whereas actually what I think we should be doing is enjoying the journey. I would love people to say it reminds them how lucky they are to be alive and to turn to the person next to them like their partner or their mum or dad and just give them a hug and tell them they love them.

'Life can be tough, really tough and we are all trying to earn an honest living. It is quite easy to forget sometimes that we are simply human with emotions and we're not defined by our careers or the materialistic side of things.

'Everyone just needs a bit of love in their life and we should all try to look after each other. The John Lewis advert cost £7million to make - a fortune compared to the small-budget production Love is a Gift, which cost less than £50.

The professional videographer dedicated the emotive video to the selflessness of his partner of ten years Claire Higley, the mother of their children Ethan, Eliza and Zara.

The man in the video has to finally let go of his mother on the most family-orientated of days and Mr Beastall wanted to celebrate the life that has rewarded him with his wife and mother to his children.

He said: 'I would say this even if I was not with Claire, but she is the most selfless person I have ever met.

'Every decision she makes is with other people in mind and it is relentless. She is the best mum for my kids and I am so lucky to have her because I know that the experience that my kids get would not be anywhere near what it is now if it was not for her.

'It is crazy how much she puts into our kids and I always tell her that they are going to grow up and look back and realise just how lucky they were to have her.

'She has completely transformed me as a person and I look back on who I was when I headed to university and realise how single-layered I was.

'She has really changed my attitude and made me see the magic in life, Christmas and the kids.'

John Lewis declined to comment.

====== 1863 ========

RIVER PLATE VS BOCA JUNIORS TIPS & PREDICTIONS - 24.11.18

The final ever two-legged Copa Libertadores final comes to its conclusion in Buenos Aires as River Plate host rivals Boca Juniors at El Monumental. The first leg result was undoubtedly a good one for River, ensuring a hard fought draw ahead of the deciding second leg in their own back yard.

Discover Paddy Power’s best offers now

Click here to find out our tip for this match

Match Preview

River Plate twice came from behind to earn a 2-2 draw with rivals Boca Juniors in the first leg of the Copa Libertadores final. Ramon Abila put Boca ahead before Lucas Pratto equalised. Dario Benedetto restored Boca’s lead before half time but the visiting side once again fought back, thanks to an own goal by Carlos Izquierdoz.

Boca’s road to the final has seen them advance from a group containing Junior, Palmeiras and Alianza Lima prior to knocking out Libertad, Cruzeiro and earlier opponents Palmeiras. There’s no doubting it will all be to complete waste if they don’t get their hands on the Libertadores trophy following the second leg between the arch rivals.

Having not won the competition since 2007, fans have long since been demanding the team run out winners of it, meaning the weight of pressure on El Xeneize would be huge against any opponent, but the fact it’s River only adds to that sentiment. Not performing particularly well domestically so far this season and criticised for his style of play, Boca boss Guillermo Barros Schelotto knows defeat in this final would likely see him fired.

Meanwhile, having last tasted Libertadores success in 2015 and having seen off Santa Fe, Emelec and Flamengo in the group phase as well as Racing, Independiente and competition holders Gremio in the knockouts, River Plate’s troops have done exceptionally well to reach this point and now have a second Libertadores title in five years, well in their sights.

River Plate manager Marcelo Gallardo will not be present for the game, as he remains banned from all contact with his team and the stadium, after violating a touchline ban in the semi-final. That does rank as a major blow for River.

Our Tip

For all the hype that the match is getting from around the world, it’s almost impossible to envisage anything but an extremely close affair. Nerves will of course be high with the 2-2 score line keeping the tie on a knife edge. Home advantage will be key and River Plate will eventually over-come Boca. Paddy Power are offering an attractive 8/15 on River Plate to lift the cup.

Find out now more betting offers

River Plate Team News

River Plate will be without ex-Liverpool midfielder Nicolas De La Cruz who is still struggling with a muscle injury. Rafael Borre will also miss the second leg after picking up a yellow card in the first leg.

Boca Juniors Team News

The big news for Boca is that there could be a return for Carlos Tevez in the second leg. The ex-Manchester United and Manchester City forward has been struggling for fitness all season. However, the travelling side will be without first team regulars Frank Fabra and Christian Pavon, who miss out with knee injuries.

====== 1864 ========

MAN UNITED VS C. PALACE TIPS & PREDICTIONS - 24.11.18

Crystal Palace haven’t won a league game in seven and will be hoping to change that when they travel to Old Trafford. This won’t be an easy task, and it won’t be made any easier when you consider that they haven’t won away at United since 1989. The Red Devils on the other hand will be looking to bounce back from their disappointing performance in the Manchester derby.

Compare Ladbrokes best offers now

Click here to find out our tip for this match

Match Preview

United were dominated at the Etihad last time out, but prior to that results had improved. A massive win in Turin against Juventus ensured United can still qualify from their Champions League group, while wins against Bournemouth and Everton and a draw against Chelsea had almost made fans forget about their early season inabilities.

However, that weakness remains and was evidential in the defeat at City, the gulf in class was massive. Defensively the Red’s were all over the place and offered very little going forward. Fans will be hoping that this can be amended for the game against the Eagles.

Palace have endured a torrid season thus far and are already looking over their shoulders. Another defeat this weekend could land the Eagles in the relegation places. Their last win in the league came in mid-September against Huddersfield Town.

Since then, Palace have lost four times and only managed two draws. These draws were hard fought against Arsenal and Newcastle United. Fans will be a little happier now that their goal drought has ended but there will still be fears over attacking abilities and the reliance on Wilfried Zaha.

Our Tip

This should be a pretty simple win for United, in fact it is almost the dream game for Jose Mourinho. United fans will be expecting a few goals in this game and they should get that. The Red Devils are heavy favourites; however Ladbrokes are offering 2/5 on the Manchester United win.

Find out now more betting offers

Head to Head

Palace have a terrible record against Manchester United, they have only won on seven occasions, while United have won 36 fixtures between the two.

There has also been ten draws. Palace’s last win of any description came against a second string United side in a League Cup game in 2011. Last season, the Red Devils won 3-2 at Selhurst Park and 4-0 at Old Trafford.

Manchester United Team News

United will be without a host of first team players. Luke Shaw will serve a one match suspension, while Antonio Valencia remains out. Paul Pogba, Anthony Martial and Romelu Lukaku are all fitness doubts, with all three pulling out of national squads.

Crystal Palace Team News

Palace will be devastated that they will be without Wilfried Zaha, who is out until December with a hamstring injury. Aaron Wan-Bissaka, Christian Benteke and James Tomkins are also out.

====== 1865 ========

WEST HAM VS MAN CITY TIPS & PREDICTIONS - 24.11.18

West Ham vs Manchester City predictions for the Premier League game at London Stadium just after the international break.

Compare Coral’s best offers now

Click here to find out our tip for this match

Match Preview

The draw with Huddersfield will be seen as a positive result by Manuel Pellegrini’s men, as they have generally struggled on the road this season. The best results – including a win over Manchester United – for the Hammers in the 2018-19 campaign have come at the London Stadium.

Even though Pellegrini is still struggling without a large contingent of players due to injury, the likes of Felipe Anderson have started to come good. After the game against City, West Ham go up against a string of relegation-threatened teams.

Anderson has been able to score three goals in his last two matches. He is now just one shy of catching Marko Arnautovic, who has five league goals.

Manchester City proved that they are a cut above the rest of the teams in the Premier League with a magnificent victory in the recent Manchester derby.

The result was a statement of intent from Guardiola’s men, who have immense strength in depth to be able to overcome the continued absence of players like Kevin De Bruyne. City have also been extremely easy on the eye with a whopping 36 goals scored while conceding just five.

Sergio Aguero is the Premier League top scorer with eight league goals – one ahead of Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and Eden Hazard.

Our Tip

Manchester City have been the best team in the league by a huge margin and West Ham have conceded over 3.5 goals in the last three home games against City.

The Hammers have few positives like the form of Felipe Anderson, but it is unlikely to beat them close to City, who have averaged three goals per game this season. The best pick would be to choose Manchester City to score over 3.5 goals at 10-11 with Coral.

Find out now our more betting offers

Head to Head

There have been 107 games between West Ham and Manchester City in the past. City have the superiority with 53 victories while the Hammers have been able to manage 37 wins so far. There have been 17 draws between these two teams.

West Ham Team News

West Ham still have a number of players on the treatment table with Andriy Yarmolenko, Carlos Sanchez, and Winston Reid ruled out of the campaign. Robert Snodgrass is suspended for the match.

Jack Wilshere still remains out with an ankle injury, while Andrew Carroll is moving closer towards a return from an ankle injury.

Ryan Frederick’s ankle problem is likely to keep him out of this game, while no return date has been set for Manuel Lanzini, who is out with a cruciate ligament problem.

Manchester City Team News

Bernardo Silva is a slight doubt with a muscle injury. Nicolas Otamendi also finds himself in a similar position due to an Achilles tendon injury.

Guardiola, though, will be definitely without Benjamin Mendy, who is suffering from a knee injury, and Kevin De Bruyne. Claudio Bravo’s Achilles problem also keeps him out of this game.

====== 1866 ========

EVERTON VS CARDIFF CITY TIPS & PREDICTIONS - 24.11.18

Everton vs Cardiff City predictions for the Premier League game between these two teams at Goodison Park.

Discover Betfred’s best offers now

Click here to find out our tip for this match

Match Preview

Everton have picked up some decent results over the last few weeks to put themselves in a strong position going into a packed December. Marco Silva’s men may have not been outstanding against teams like Manchester United and Chelsea, but they have been rich in terms of quality against teams at the lower end of the table. Yerry Mina made his much-anticipated debut against Chelsea, but he still needs time in order to find his feet in English football.

Gylfi Sigurdsson’s injury makes Richarlison extremely important for Everton over the next couple of weeks. The Brazilian has enjoyed a consistent campaign, which has yielded six goals in 10 league games.

Cardiff City have made the most of home matches against relegation rivals to move closer towards safety. The wins over Fulham and Brighton will give the Bluebirds with a great deal of confidence going into the next five matches, which comprise of games against the likes of Southampton and West Ham. Cardiff have picked up just one point from five away matches so far.

Callum Paterson has been an excellent target man for Cardiff and his goal against Brighton sees him top the scoring charts at the club with three league goals.

Our Tip

Four out of the five victories for Everton this season have come at Goodison Park. Even without players like Sigurdsson in the line-up, Everton are better than Cardiff in almost every aspect. Even though Warnock’s men have been coming up with some decent performances, they may lack the motivation to get a positive result in this fixture.

Everton are quite strong defensively, while Cardiff have relied on the odd moment to score goals in away games.

The best pick would be to back an Everton clean sheet at 4-5.

Find out now more betting offers

Head to Head

Everton and Cardiff have met each other on 35 occasions with the two teams having an even share of victories – 13 each. The remaining nine meetings have been stalemates.

Everton Team News

Jonjoe Kenny and Gylfi Sigurdsson are major doubts for the game due to a knock and an ankle injury. Andre Gomes’ bruised leg makes him a doubt for this game along with Ademola Lookman.

Cardiff City Team News

Neil Warnock will be without Jazz Richards due to a hamstring injury. Sean Morrison has concussion that will keep him out for a week, while Kenneth Zohore needs more time to recover from his calf injury.

====== 1867 ========

HULL CITY VS N. FOREST TIPS & PREDICTIONS - 24.11.18

Hull City will be hoping to continue their recent good form when the high flying Forest come to town. The Tigers will be looking to get the points that will get them out of the relegation places, while Forest will be looking for the vital three points to get into the play-off positions.

Discover Paddy Power’s best offers now

Click here to find out our tip for this match

Match Preview

Few would have guessed that Hull would be fighting relegation this season; after all they were a Premier League side only a few years ago. However, one win in their first six league games quickly readjusted the season’s targets. They are one of four sides currently sitting on 16 points but due to the competitive nature of the league, two wins would see Hull rise to 16th.

They are unbeaten in their last three games, beating Bolton Wanderers and West Bromwich Albion 1-0 before fighting back to get a 3-3 draw against high flying Birmingham City. The signs are good for the Tigers and they will feel that if they can continue playing as they are, they will be just fine this season.

Forest however will be dreaming of the Promised Land following their solid start to the season. A win at the KCOM will see them rise into the play off places and just three points off the top of the league. Their main strength has been defensively this season, having the third best record in the league.

They have only been beaten once in their last five fixtures, that loss coming at Carrow Road against table-topping Norwich. Over this recent run of form, Forest have beaten Sheffield United and Bolton, but were held to draws by Leeds United and Stoke City.

Our Tip

This will be a very tight fixture between two in-form sides. There will only be the one goal separating the sides and Hull City will make the home advantage count. Paddy Power are offering a good price of 7/5 on the Tigers to get the win over Forest.

Find out now more betting offers

Head to Head

History shows there is nothing between the two sides. Hull have won 27 fixtures, Forest have 29 wins and there has been nine draws. The Tigers lost this fixture last season in an enthralling 3-2 defeat. However, the two met again at the KCOM in the FA Cup, Hull ran out 2-1 winners on this occasion.

Hull City Team News

The Tigers again have an extensive injury list. They will be without Stephan Kingsley and James Weir who are out with knee injuries. Jon Toral, Angus McDonald and Goebel Evandro all remain out with calf injuries. However, Nouha Dicko will be fit to return.

Nottingham Forest Team News

Forest will be without Al Arbi Hilel Soudani and Daniel Fox who remain out. Sam Bryan will be injured with a ankle injury until February. Meanwhile, Daryl Murphy will be back in the squad which will boost Forest.

====== 1868 ========

SHEFF. WED. VS DERBY COUNTY TIPS & PREDICTIONS - 24.11.18

Championship action returns with Sheffield Wednesday hosting promotion-chasing Derby County, as the pressure mounts on Owls boss Jos Luhukay following a run of five matches without a win. Meanwhile, with Frank Lampard’s side having lost just once from the same number of encounters, it is the Rams who are the favourites for victory at Hillsborough on Saturday afternoon.

Discover William Hill’s best offers now

Click here to find out our tip for this match

Match Preview

Sheffield Wednesday host Derby County on Saturday afternoon, with both sides looking to return to winning ways in the Championship. Before the international break, the home side battled to a goalless draw against their city rivals Sheffield United, a result which left them 17th in the standings ahead of their clash with Frank Lampard’s promotion chasers.

Derby suffered a surprise 3-0 home defeat to Aston Villa last time out, however the Rams remain in the play-off mix, having won eight of their 17 Championship matches so far this season. The visitors have certainly had the better campaign to date, however a trip to Hillsborough is never an easy task, with manager Lampard undoubtedly hoping that his players can quickly rediscover their top form.

Wednesday have the joint-worst defensive record in the division, having conceded 30 goals from just 17 matches, offering Derby attackers hope ahead of kick-off.

Our Tip

Our betting tip for the match at Hillsborough is to bet on both teams scoring during the 90 minutes, which is available at odds of 7/10 from William Hill.

Find out now our more betting offers

Head to Head

Sheffield Wednesday have won their last two home encounters with Derby County, including a comfortable success earlier this year, when Lucas Joao scored twice in a 2-0 victory.

However, the Rams were successful on home turf back in October last year, with little separating the two sides when it comes to their head-to-head record.

Sheffield Wednesday Team News

Defender Ash Baker returns to the fold following his suspension, with the Owls hoping to have a fully-fit squad to select from after the international break.

Derby County Team News

Derby are set to be without several first-team players at Hillsborough, including the likes of Curtis Davies, Tom Huddlestone and summer signing George Evans. Mason Mount and Martyn Waghorn both face a race against time to prove their fitness ahead of their clash with Sheffield Wednesday.

====== 1869 ========

ONLINE BETTING FROM 888SPORT – UK’S BEST SPORTS BETTING ODDS

New customers only. £10 minimum deposit using promo code "888ODDS" required. Qualifying bet must be placed at the normal odds Min bet £5, max bet £5. Extra winnings paid in FREE BETS and added within 72 hrs of qualifying bet settlement. Free bet stakes not included in bet returns. Free bets expire 7 days after credit. This offer may not be combined with any other offer. Deposit balance is available for withdrawal at any time. General deposit method & withdrawal restrictions apply & Full T&C’s apply

====== 1870 ========

RIVER PLATE VS BOCA JUNIORS TIPS & PREDICTIONS - 24.11.18

The final ever two-legged Copa Libertadores final comes to its conclusion in Buenos Aires as River Plate host rivals Boca Juniors at El Monumental. The first leg result was undoubtedly a good one for River, ensuring a hard fought draw ahead of the deciding second leg in their own back yard.

Discover Paddy Power’s best offers now

Click here to find out our tip for this match

Match Preview

River Plate twice came from behind to earn a 2-2 draw with rivals Boca Juniors in the first leg of the Copa Libertadores final. Ramon Abila put Boca ahead before Lucas Pratto equalised. Dario Benedetto restored Boca’s lead before half time but the visiting side once again fought back, thanks to an own goal by Carlos Izquierdoz.

Boca’s road to the final has seen them advance from a group containing Junior, Palmeiras and Alianza Lima prior to knocking out Libertad, Cruzeiro and earlier opponents Palmeiras. There’s no doubting it will all be to complete waste if they don’t get their hands on the Libertadores trophy following the second leg between the arch rivals.

Having not won the competition since 2007, fans have long since been demanding the team run out winners of it, meaning the weight of pressure on El Xeneize would be huge against any opponent, but the fact it’s River only adds to that sentiment. Not performing particularly well domestically so far this season and criticised for his style of play, Boca boss Guillermo Barros Schelotto knows defeat in this final would likely see him fired.

Meanwhile, having last tasted Libertadores success in 2015 and having seen off Santa Fe, Emelec and Flamengo in the group phase as well as Racing, Independiente and competition holders Gremio in the knockouts, River Plate’s troops have done exceptionally well to reach this point and now have a second Libertadores title in five years, well in their sights.

River Plate manager Marcelo Gallardo will not be present for the game, as he remains banned from all contact with his team and the stadium, after violating a touchline ban in the semi-final. That does rank as a major blow for River.

Our Tip

For all the hype that the match is getting from around the world, it’s almost impossible to envisage anything but an extremely close affair. Nerves will of course be high with the 2-2 score line keeping the tie on a knife edge. Home advantage will be key and River Plate will eventually over-come Boca. Paddy Power are offering an attractive 8/15 on River Plate to lift the cup.

Find out now more betting offers

River Plate Team News

River Plate will be without ex-Liverpool midfielder Nicolas De La Cruz who is still struggling with a muscle injury. Rafael Borre will also miss the second leg after picking up a yellow card in the first leg.

Boca Juniors Team News

The big news for Boca is that there could be a return for Carlos Tevez in the second leg. The ex-Manchester United and Manchester City forward has been struggling for fitness all season. However, the travelling side will be without first team regulars Frank Fabra and Christian Pavon, who miss out with knee injuries.

====== 1871 ========

GLOBAL NEWS & INTERNATIONAL HEADLINES

Four lions who were born into freezing captivity in terrible conditions in a circus in Ukraine (pictured top) have been rescued and taken to South Africa after traveling nearly 8,000 miles by car and plane (pictured bottom left) to reach their new home. They took their first steps on African soil today (pictured bottom right). Lioness twins Charlie and Kai, four, and their younger sister Luca, three, have only ever known bars and cages since being born into the circus. Nathan, then a tiny lion cub, joined them just over a year ago and also faced a life of captivity and performing for the amusement of humans. But in a heartwarming twist, the lions were rescued by an animal activist, South African expat Lionel De Lange, 53, from the Lawrence Anthony Earth Organization Ukraine (LAEO).To save the lions, he raised nearly £32,000 to fly and drive them nearly 8,000 miles to South Africa.

====== 1872 ========

MET OFFICE ISSUES A WEATHER WARNING OVER HEAVY RAIN AND FLOODING WITH TEMPERATURES DIPPING TO ZERO

Weather warnings have been issued across the UK as torrential rainfall could lead to flooding - while parts of the country have already been blanketed in snow.

Homes and businesses are being told to prepare for potential flooding from thunderous downpours on Friday and Saturday, as Yellow notices are in place along the south coast from Bournemouth to Plymouth.

Blasts of hail are also expected as 50 mm could fall in 24 hours until Saturday, the Met Office said.

The most likely impacted areas will be the southeast-facing coasts and the moors of Devon and Cornwall.

The heaviest rainfalls so far were recorded in Yorkshire earlier this week, with Hull receiving about 0.8in (20mm) in 48 hours.

Below freezing temperatures have been recorded in south east England with South Newington in Oxfordshire dipping to -6.7C.

A car navigates the Snake Pass in Derbyshire, as a blast of snow hits the north of England. The odds on a white Christmas have been slashed

A woman walks her dog near the Snake Pass the Derbyshire which was blanketed in snow over the last few days - while flooding is expected in the south

Torrential rain is expected to fall between Friday and Saturday as flood warnings are in place across the south coast of England

A snow covered sign showed how snow has dropped and stayed on higher ground in the north of England but more is expected

Snowfall in Brighton in the early hours this week came as a shock to many residents on the Sussex coast, while temperatures dropped below zero

A van came off the road in snow on Snake Pass in Derbyshire after snow fell over the hills of the Peak District overnight

A warning has been issued to drivers after a cold snap has left a blanket of snow and ice on some roads in the north of England

Your browser does not support the iframe HTML tag. Try viewing this in a modern browser like Chrome, Safari, Firefox or Internet Explorer 9 or later.

A Met Office severe weather warning is now in place across Cornwall, Devon, Somerset, Plymouth, Dorset and Torbay until Saturday evening.

Chief meteorologist Laura Paterson said: 'Bands of heavy, at times thundery, showers are expected to affect parts of southwest England from Friday morning until later on Saturday.

'Where [showers] do occur, 20 to 40 millimetres may fall in six to 12 hours, with perhaps around 50 millimetres falling in 24 hours – most likely across southeast-facing coasts and moors of Devon and Cornwall.

'Showers may also contain small hail at times.'

Further north, temperatures have plummeted. Inches of snow fell on the Peak District in Derbyshire, this week.

Snow fell in parts of Kent, Exmoor in Devon and also across the Pennines in the North, while strong winds buffeted the coast.

More flakes are set to fall as a cold snap in the midweek is expected to bring Arctic conditions.

The AA warned drivers to take extra care as the weather conditions deteriorate. George Flinton, from the AA Patrol of the Year, said: 'The first really cold snap of winter can catch drivers unaware, putting them at risk.

Bookmaker Ladbrokes has slashed the odds on this winter being the coldest in Britain's history. Odds have dropped from 4/1 to 6/4.

Ladbrokes spokesman Alex Apati said: 'The Beast from the East is back and it looks like this winter could set new records.'

Heavy rain and hail has been forecast for the weekend as flood warnings are in place along the south coast of England

Snow falls over the Pennines - leaving areas like Tan Hill Inn in North Yorkshire under a blanket of snow - and more is yet to come

Andrew Hields, the co-owner of the Tan Hill Inn in North Yorkshire, looks out from Britain's highest pub in the snow

A road winds through white fields near the Hope Valley in Derbyshire after snowfall over the hills of the Peak District this week

A woman near the Snake Pass in Derbyshire, as a blast of snow hits the North of England this week

Further snow and ice is expected. Today the Met Office with the UK Cabinet Office issued a notice warning of a 'severe winter' on the way.

Oliver Dowden, Minister for Implementation for the Cabinet Office said: 'Last year we saw the impact severe weather can have on our services and communities.

'Our public services and emergency responders continue to prepare for severe weather as they do every year, but everyone can take simple actions to prepare themselves and support their friends and neighbours.

'Thinking ahead can make a big difference if the weather takes a turn for the worse.'

A Met Office spokesman added: 'The Met Office recommends you have a torch, candles, bottled water and some basic food supplies available.

'Thinking about what may be impacted by strong winds or floods will reduce the risk of damage to your property, for example guttering, pipes, roof tiles, ground floor items and garden items.'

====== 1873 ========

BRITISH ISIS COUPLE WHO TRIED TO SNEAK BACK INTO UK AFTER GONG TO SYRIA JAILED IN TURKEY

A British jihadi couple who tried to sneak back into the UK after two years in Syria have been jailed in Turkey.

Muslim convert Stefan Aristidou, 24, and his wife Kolsoma Begum, 23, were convicted of being in an armed terrorist organisation and sentenced to six years and three months each.

Last night, MPs said the case was ‘the tip of the iceberg’, and pointed to the far greater number who had come back to Britain without facing prosecution.

Only 40 out of 400 British jihadis who fought in Syria and Iraq have been prosecuted on their return, it has emerged.

At least 360 battle-hardened fanatics were allowed to go free as there is not enough evidence to jail them.

It is unclear which sanctions Aristidou and Begum, who gave birth to a girl in Syria, will face on their return. But they are unlikely to lose their passports unless they are dual nationals.

Jihadi Kolsoma Begum was jailed in Turkey along with her husband and Muslim convert Stefan Aristidou as they tried to get back to the UK

The Londoners had been trying to return to the UK since September 2016 after defecting from IS. They fled Syria last April but were arrested after surrendering to the Turks.

The couple claimed they joined IS in April 2015 so they could live under sharia law rather than to fight, but went into hiding after seeing the terror group’s murderous regime with their own eyes.

But last month a court in the Turkish town of Kilis, three miles from the Syrian border, rejected their defence.

They were jailed alongside US citizen Kary Paul Kleman, 48, from Wisconsin, who claimed he had been captured by IS militants while visiting his Syrian wife’s family in 2015.

Aristidou, who grew up in middle-class surroundings in Enfield, north London, and Begum, who was training to be a midwife, became desperate to return to the UK after discovering that living under IS was like being in ‘prison’.

In March 2017, while on the run from the terror group, Aristidou told Sky News: ‘I’m just trying to get my life back.

‘So be it if I have to go to prison in order to do that. I’m prepared to do that. I’m just here to look after my family.’

After their arrest, Begum’s father Ahmed Ali, 48, told the Mail that his daughter, from Poplar, east London, should face justice if she wants to return to Britain.

British jihadist Stefan Aristidou went to Syria in 2015. Along with his wife Kolsoma Begum he was convicted of being in an armed terrorist organisation and the pair were sentenced to six years and three months each

Home Secretary Sajid Javid plans to make it illegal to travel to terror hotspots without good excuse to deter Britons from travelling to warzones to join extremist groups.

Independent MP John Woodcock, a member of the Commons home affairs committee who has campaigned for the new law, said last night: ‘It’s clear that this couple are actually only the tip of the iceberg.

They are the small minority who have been caught red-handed, but every story like this points to the far greater number who have been able to come back to the UK without facing any kind of prosecution.

‘That is why the new counter-terror legislation for which I called and the Government is taking through the Commons is potentially so important.

‘If this can get through, we’ll be able to prosecute people simply entering particular terror hotspots when they don’t have a clear reason to do so.’

The Government has also come under pressure from the US and Kurdish leaders in Syria to take responsibility for UK citizens captured abroad.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: ‘Anyone who has travelled to Syria or Iraq is putting themselves in danger.

Any foreign terrorist fighters captured overseas should be treated in accordance with applicable law and, wherever possible, brought to justice in accordance with legal due process in the most appropriate jurisdiction.’

====== 1874 ========

WORKMAN IN HIS 40S DIES AFTER BECOMING TRAPPED UNDER A COLLAPSED WAREHOUSE STORAGE UNIT

A man has died after becoming trapped under a collapsed warehouse storage unit for almost 24 hours.

Emergency services had searched for Dzintars Klementjevs, believed to be in his 40s, for over 17 hours before he was found dead at the scene.

Culina Logistics confirmed the death of Mr Klementjevs and said he had worked at the depot for six years.

Staff were sent home from the Culina Logisitcs depot in Suffolk on Thursday afternoon, after emergency services were called to the warehouse following reports of fallen shelving.

Dzintars Klementjevs was found dead at the scene in Haverhill, Suffolk on Thursday afternoon

The Culina warehouse in Suffolk is reportedly the size of eight football pitches

The multi-response incident was being led by Suffolk police and included Suffolk Fire and Rescue as well as the East of England Ambulance service.

Steve Winwood, CEO of Culina Logistics, said: 'On behalf of the Culina Logistics business and further to the statement made yesterday, it is with the deepest regret that I am now in a position to confirm that a serious accident occurred on 22nd November 2018, which tragically resulted in the fatality of a Culina Logistics employee, Mr. Dzintars Klementjevs at our Haverhill site.

'Dzintars had worked with the company for 6 years in total, initially through an agency and then appointed directly, and was a highly valued and respected member of the warehouse team. He will be sadly missed.

'Our thoughts are with his family, friends and colleagues at this extremely sad time.

'The Management Team is cooperating fully with the authorities to establish the circumstances surrounding this tragic accident.'

Staff at the Culina depot in Suffolk (above) were sent home on Thursday as emergency service teams searched for the man

Culina had previously issued a statement confirming the incident.

A Suffolk Police spokesman said: 'A man, in his 40s, had suffered fatal injuries and had died at the scene.

'Next of kin have been informed. No one else was injured and there is no wider threat to the public.

'Officers are continuing to investigate alongside colleagues from other organisations. Emergency services are still at the scene.'

The warehouse, which is reportedly around the size of eight football pitches, stores products from brands such as Alpro, GU chocolate puds, Vimto and Tyrrells.

====== 1875 ========

POLICE HUNT GANG OF BURGLARS WHO BROKE INTO A ESTATE AND STOLE A 'PRICELESS' TIARA

Police are looking for burglars who stole a priceless diamond tiara described as a 'national treasure' from a historic country estate.

The thieves broke into the Welbeck Estate in Sherwood Forest, Nottinghamshire, between 9.45pm and 10pm on Tuesday this week.

A diamond brooch along with the Portland Tiara, said to be 'worth millions', were stolen from an armoured glass display case, as alarms sounded during the heist.

The Portland Tiara is said to be 'worth millions' is a considered one of the great historic tiaras of Great Britain

The sixth Duke of Portland commissioned Cartier to create the tiara for his wife Winifred, Duchess of Portland (pictured)

The heirloom is considered one of the 'great historic tiaras of Great Britain' after the Duke of Portland commissioned jewelers Cartier to make it in 1902.

Nottinghamshire Police have launched an investigation and are appealing for information about a silver Audi S5 believed to be involved in the raid.

A broach was also taken from the same glass case as the tiara

They confirmed they were pursuing a 'number of lines of inquiry'.

Detective Inspector Neil Humphris said: 'We particularly want to hear from anyone who has any information about a silver Audi S5 which is suspected to have been involved in this offence.

'This vehicle was found abandoned and burnt out in Cross Lane, Blidworth, about half-an-hour after the incident.

'Did you see this vehicle in the Welbeck area around the time of the burglary or anywhere between the Welbeck Estate and Cross Lane in Blidworth between 9.45pm and 10.30pm on Tuesday night?

'If you have any information about this vehicle or the offence itself we'd urge you to please come forward and contact us as soon as possible.

'We'd also like to hear from any drivers who may have dash cam footage of this vehicle.'

Richard Edgcumbe, Curator of Jewellery at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, said: 'The Portland Tiara is one of the great historic tiaras of Great Britain'.

The Welbeck Estate Welbeck is one of the great traditional landed estates, nestled within Sherwood Forest in Nottinghamshire. The estate is within the area of North Nottinghamshire known as the Dukeries. The name comes from four historic neighbouring Ducal estates, Welbeck, Clumber, Thoresby, and Worksop Manor. Depending on where you drew the line, the estates between them covered 88 thousand acres, giving the Dukeries at the time some of the qualities of a self-contained world. Welbeck is still a working estate and contains a Grade 2 registered historic park designed in 1748 by Francis Richardson; ancient woodlands and forestry; a beautiful chain of lakes; farmland and grazing; a deer park; and some of the country’s most important rural heritage buildings. At its heart lies the historic Welbeck Abbey and Welbeck Village. Credit: welbeck.co.uk

'Since its creation by Cartier in 1902, using diamonds from the historic collections of the Dukes of Portland, it has been recognised as a jewel of supreme importance, a superb design magnificently executed.'

The sixth Duke of Portland commissioned Cartier to create the tiara for his wife Winifred, Duchess of Portland.

She wore it to the 1902 coronation of King Edward VII. She was one of four pall-bearers at Queen Alexandra's anointing.

The Portland diamond is the centre-piece of the jewellery, which dates back to the 19th century.

Flanked by two diamond drops and other valuable pendant diamonds, the tiara is set in gold and silver.

The stolen brooch was made of diamond clusters which stood at the apex of the tiara.

These gems can be seen on the tiara in a painting of Duchess Winifred at the anointing of Queen Alexandra.

Anyone with information is asked to call police on 101, quoting incident number 856 of 20 November 2018, or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

====== 1876 ========

ECO-PROTESTERS WHO BLOCKED LONDON BRIDGES JAILED

A yoga teacher, tech entrepreneur and university worker are among thousands of activists aiming to bring London to a standstill today.

The Left-wing mob, led by highly educated professional protesters with very middle-class upbringings, want to stage a mock funeral march through the city.

The eco-warriors have already sparked outrage by blocking major bridges and bottlenecks with noisy protests in the past week. The leading demonstrators oppose fracking and a third runway at Heathrow.

Bristol university student Robin Boardman-Pattison (left) and Joanna Bodimeade (right) sparked outrage by blocking bridges in London

They believe the country has reached a ‘tipping point’ in which direct action is the only option left to save the planet. But critics claim the activists are creating even more pollution by causing tailbacks. Among the protesters hellbent on bringing chaos to our roads is Joanna Bodimeade, 30, a jet-setting yoga teacher who blogs about her exotic trips around the world.

A veteran of green protests, she has shut down the M4 and campaigned against a third runway at Heathrow.

She will be joined by Maximus Richardson, 32, a Staffordshire University film production graduate who travels from his parents’ £1.2million home near Heathrow to join the protests.

He is currently promoting a social network linked to a cryptocurrency.

Robin Boardman-Pattison, a Bristol University languages student, is at the centre of the London protests, threatening: ‘We are not going to stop.’

Originally from Beckenham on the London-Kent border, the 21-year-old spray paints buildings to further his green agenda.

Dr Larch Maxey, a Plymouth University ‘visiting specialist’, says he is never happier than when foraging near his flat in Totnes, Devon. The anti-fracking campaigner refuses to fly to overseas conferences, insisting on appearing by video link.

Nick Cooper, 34, a technician at the University of Northampton who has been arrested twice in a fortnight, will also be demonstrating. He was among 82 supporters of the Extinction Rebellion movement to be arrested amid 6,000-strong protests on five bridges across the Thames on Saturday last week.

Most arrests were made on Waterloo Bridge and Blackfriars Bridge as police forced open routes to a major hospital.

Maximus Richardson, Nick Cooper and Dr Larch Maxey (left to right) were all present at the protests

Today, organisers plan to cause even more disruption. One said: ‘We will do ten bridges, we are looking at 500-plus arrests.’

Speaking at another protest this week – in breach of his bail conditions – Mr Cooper said: ‘We have to be disruptive like this in order for those in power to take notice.’ On Wednesday protesters walked on to roads in Westminster, Tower Bridge, Elephant and Castle in south London and Earl’s Court to the west.

One woman, who was walking to work, said: ‘This is not the right thing to do. They are causing more pollution with all this standing traffic.’

The protesters have been told to gather outside Parliament at 10am before moving on to other locations. Organiser Ronan McNern said: ‘This is about causing economic disruption by bringing things to a gridlock.’

The Metropolitan Police said: ‘If you do drive into London, please note attempting to drive through protesters in the road is very dangerous and illegal.’

====== 1877 ========

EX-COLONEL IN £2MILLION LEGAL BID AFTER SHE FACED 'SEX ABUSE FOR TRYING TO EXPOSE MEDICAL FAILINGS'

A former colonel has launched a £2million compensation bid over claims she was hounded out of her job after turning whistleblower to expose a medical scandal in the Armed Forces.

Mary Roohan was treated appallingly following her decision to highlight ‘serious concerns’ about failings in health records for Britain’s 147,000 full-time soldiers, sailors and RAF personnel, it is alleged.

Her case has emerged three months after military doctors warned that service personnel are in danger of being given the wrong drugs and missing life-saving vaccinations because their GPs are routinely locked out of patient records stored on forces IT systems.

After trying to raise the alarm about the issue, Colonel Roohan is said to have been subjected to a campaign of sex discrimination, harassment and victimisation.

Mary in Iraq in 2003. Army chiefs are engulfed in an explosive #MeToo scandal amid claims a senior Army officer suffered sex discrimination after she turned whistle-blower

Her case could lift the lid on the sexist culture in the military and could prompt #MeToo complaints from other women who have suffered ‘gender prejudice’ while serving their country.

The £92,000-a-year Army officer was allegedly referred to as ‘the skirt’ by one senior colleague, while another commented that she ‘looked hot’. A third is said to have made an extremely distasteful sexual remark about her.

Details of how she suffered sexual harassment in the officers’ mess at a military base could also be laid bare in her legal action against the Ministry of Defence, as well as the claim that some female Army officers insist on wearing wedding rings on overseas operations in a bid to deter unwanted sexual advances from colleagues.

Colonel Roohan, who is in her 50s, is one of the most senior female Army officers to have brought a sex discrimination claim against the MoD, and three senior military figures – all men who have served as a general, an air marshal and a rear admiral – face the prospect of being called to give evidence.

Her alleged ordeal plunged her into a stress-related illness, anxiety and major depressive episode before she was given a medical discharge from the Army last month after two years on sick leave.

How GPs warned of IT meltdown danger Colonel Mary Roohan was not alone in believing that failings in the military’s IT healthcare systems jeopardised the care of members of the Armed Forces. Doctors warned three months ago that service personnel are at serious risk because of chronic computer failures at military surgeries. Patients are in danger of being given the wrong drugs and missing life-saving vaccinations because GPs are often locked out of patient records, they said. Their concerns included claims that GPs’ computer screens freeze almost daily, patient records disappear, appointments are lost and notes on one patient pop up on a doctor’s screen during another patient’s consultation. According to legal papers, Colonel Roohan sent an email to senior officers in March 2015 saying that she had uncovered failings concerning ‘a serious risk to patient safety caused by the inability to access the healthcare records’ and ‘loss of patient data’. But her call for an investigation was ignored.

Colonel Roohan, a vet who joined the Royal Army Veterinary Corps in 2001, says she became concerned about the system for storing and accessing healthcare records after being promoted to colonel in 2013 and appointed assistant head of medical information systems delivery in the Armed Forces.

During her military career, she served in Iraq – where in 2003 she met Tony Blair during a visit by the then prime minister – Afghanistan and the Balkans.

During operations in 2003 at Umm Qasr port in southern Iraq, Mary introduced the then-PM Tony Blair to the soldiers

According to legal papers, Colonel Roohan should have been given protection after complaining about the ‘parlous’ system for storing medical records in the military.

But instead she was treated differently because she was a ‘female whistleblower’ in an ‘extremely male-dominated environment’.

Colonel Roohan’s £1million damages claim at an employment tribunal is for sex discrimination, harassment and victimisation.

In the High Court, she is also seeking a minimum of £958,000 compensation for ‘psychiatric injury’, bringing the total payout to around £2million.

Last night she declined to comment on her legal action. But a spokesman told the Mail: ‘Mary Roohan feels she had no choice but to bring this action to protect other female whistleblowers at the MoD from suffering the same treatment for doing the right thing.

‘By revealing the institutional sexism female whistleblowers face, this case will highlight the wider issues of gender prejudice in the military despite the progress being made in the civilian sphere.’

The MoD said: ‘Anyone who suspects wrongdoing should feel safe to raise their concerns, which is why we have a robust framework in place that includes a dedicated, confidential hotline. As legal proceedings are ongoing, we are unable to comment on this case.’

====== 1878 ========

MOTHER-OF-ONE CLAIMS HER OLD ETONIAN BOYFRIEND AND HIS FAMILY PRESSURED HER TO GET A TERMINATION

Had it not been for the joys of the internet, Georgie David might never have crossed paths with dashing Old Etonian James Reeve.

The pair met online in February 2017 after stumbling, virtually, across each other via mutual Facebook friends.

Georgie, 34, a legal aide from London, agreed to a date with James, 37, who owns a polo club on his family’s Lincolnshire estate. After dinner at swanky Beaufort House in Chelsea, their relationship became sexual and, over the next six months, James became a regular visitor to Georgie’s nearby rented flat.

So far, so straightforward.

But, in the summer of 2017, Georgie discovered she was pregnant and relations between the couple soured when she said she was keeping the baby.

‘I’ve been abandoned and now I’m being treated like a fallen woman,’ she tells me at her tiny ground-floor studio flat just off the King’s Road in Chelsea.

‘I have never asked for any financial support for myself, only for our son.’

While she says her ex-lover is refusing to contribute towards the upkeep of their eight-month-old son, Henry, James Reeve claims to be a victim of ‘entrapment’ and says he wants nothing to do with Georgie or the baby.

Georgina David with her son Henry David-Reeve, 8 months. Miss David claims his father wanted her to have an abortion

Georgina says her ex-lover is refusing to contribute towards the upkeep of their eight-month-old son, Henry

Georgie, 34, a legal aide from London, began dating James, 37, who owns a polo club on his family’s Lincolnshire estate

Despite being owner of Leadenham Polo Club and a schoolboy contemporary of Prince William, Reeve has been assessed as unable to pay child maintenance because of the ‘modest’ income he receives from his family.

In a letter from a solicitor acting on his behalf, the Edinburgh University graduate, whose ancestor fought alongside the Duke of Wellington at the Battle of Waterloo, accuses Georgie of going back on her promise to terminate the unexpected pregnancy and of lying about taking the contraceptive pill.

Georgie denies both claims, but the row has even caught the eye of senior Church of England clergy after it emerged that James’s mother, Henrietta, who also wants no contact with her grandson, was appointed a lay canon at Lincoln Cathedral just a month before Henry’s birth.

Divorcee Mrs Reeve, 62, became the subject of a church investigation after Georgie’s priest, the Rector at St Luke’s in Chelsea, wrote to the Bishop of Lincoln saying she came under great pressure from the Reeve family — ‘Mrs Reeve in particular’ — to have an abortion.

In a written response to that claim, the Bishop of Grantham said that while ‘Miss David came under great pressure’, there was no evidence that Mrs Reeve, who is also Deputy Lieutenant of Lincolnshire, was involved.

A morally muddled saga then, and one which raises questions about sex, relationships and responsibility in this modern age of dating.

Who, then, should be blamed for this sorry situation? And, above all, what does the future hold for the golden-haired, blue-eyed baby boy at the heart of it?

Henry James Frederick David-Reeve, who shares both his parents’ surnames is, somewhat ironically, the spitting image of the handsome father he has never met.

James Reeve accuses Georgie of going back on her promise to terminate the unexpected pregnancy and of lying about taking the contraceptive pill

Divorcee Henrietta Reeve, 62, became the subject of a church investigation after Georgie’s priest, the Rector at St Luke’s in Chelsea, wrote to the Bishop of Lincoln saying she came under great pressure from the Reeve family — ‘Mrs Reeve in particular’ — to have an abortion

‘It’s for Henry’s sake that I’m speaking out about this,’ says Georgie, cradling her son.

‘He wasn’t planned, but the fact is that we have a beautiful baby boy and he deserves to have the best chance in life. I am struggling to cope financially, and I just want James to accept some responsibility for his son.’

James Reeve sees things rather differently. A letter sent to Georgie by his solicitor says: ‘You entered a relationship with him which was meant to be entirely casual, with no commitment at all.’

Meanwhile, Georgie has been receiving emotional support from a most unlikely quarter — James’s elder brother, William, who is heir to the family estate. He has not only been to visit his nephew but also became his godfather when Henry was christened in September.

He hit the news himself this week after he collapsed in court as he launched a battle with his mother over the future of their family’s 230-year-old country estate.

Old Etonian William, 38, says the future of the 18th-century Leadenham estate is at risk due to a bitter family row, not helped by the situation between James and Georgie.

Meanwhile, Georgie remains hurt and angry at the way she has been treated. While she doesn’t deny the relationship was casual at first, she argues that she and James began to see each other regularly — at least every week — and their romance became more than just physical.

‘We used to take my dog for walks together and go out for long lunches and dinners. Or I cooked for us here. Sometimes we used to get a takeaway and a bottle of wine and just lie in front of the television. He brought flowers. We became close. It started to feel more serious. We opened up to each other about our lives.’

And what different lives they are.

Georgie, the daughter of a Pakistani-born father and British mother, was raised in a terrace house in South-east London and attended an all-girls’ state school. She studied media at the University of Buckingham, but left before finishing her degree and worked as a VIP nightclub hostess at Chinawhite in Soho.

In her early 20s, she began work as a secretary at a barristers’ chambers in central London, moved to Chelsea and joined a ladies’ shooting club in West London.

James, meanwhile, is one of four children born to Peter and Henrietta Reeve, and grew up enjoying all the privileges that life in a family with a lineage stretching back to Edward III can offer — including 20-bedroom Grade II-listed Leadenham House on the family’s 3,000-acre estate. He attended Eton and after university, returned to the estate to pursue his love of polo.

Despite living at Leadenham House James Reeve has been assessed as unable to make child maintenance payments

Mr Reeve (pictured), the son of Lincoln Cathedral's lay Canon who is accused of encouraging Miss David to have an abortion

Georgie insists she is no gold-digger and had no idea just how wealthy James was when she met him. ‘He’s actually quite scruffy,’ she says. ‘I bought him socks on two occasions because his had holes in.’

Claims that she tricked him into getting her pregnant are rebutted.

‘The accusation that I lied about being on the Pill or that I deliberately didn’t take it is ridiculous. The only person who can possibly know if I took it is me, and I know I took it.’

Nevertheless, in June 2017 a home test revealed she was pregnant. At first, she says, James took the news calmly. He travelled from Lincolnshire and the pair attended an NHS clinic in North London offering pregnancy counselling and abortion services.

She admits that at this stage, she was ready to consider a termination. ‘I was only five weeks pregnant and it seemed the sensible thing to do,’ she explains. But before they had the chance to discuss it, medical events swiftly overtook them.

This dramatically impacted her feelings about the pregnancy.

First, a scan suggested Georgie was suffering from an ectopic pregnancy — a potentially fatal condition. She was sent to A&E at the Royal Free Hospital, Hampstead, where she was monitored until it became clear the pregnancy was not ectopic and she was suffering from a harmless cyst in her fallopian tube.

‘It was a very stressful situation because it could have impacted my future fertility,’ she says. ‘James was wonderful, perfect in every way. He cuddled me and reassured me.’

When she was discharged three days later, she returned home to find he had cleaned her flat and put fresh flowers in a vase.

Soon after, they returned to the pregnancy advice clinic, again planning to speak to a counsellor about the possibility of a termination, but after another scan, Georgie was told she had suffered a ‘missed miscarriage’ — where an embryo dies but is not immediately expelled by the body. Medical advice for women suffering the condition in the first three months of pregnancy is to allow nature to take its course.

Given that both she and James believed the pregnancy was over, she says, there was no longer any need to discuss a termination. Instead, they went away for a weekend to help her get over the ordeal, staying at the Victoria Inn hotel in Holkham, Norfolk.

‘He was really lovely to me at that time,’ she says.

But at a check-up at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital in August 2017, Georgie was given the jaw-dropping news that she hadn’t miscarried at all. She was 13 weeks pregnant with a healthy baby.

‘It was the last thing I expected,’ she says. ‘I could see a heartbeat. I was overwhelmed that after everything that had happened, here was a perfect little baby.’

She phoned James to break the news. ‘He was completely shocked,’ she says. ‘I asked if he wanted to see the scan photos and he said that he didn’t, that it was too much for him to take in. He said he needed to speak to his mother.

‘I understood that he was overwhelmed.’

She claims she then had a call from Mrs Reeve. ‘During the conversation, she said James wouldn’t stand by me. She said that I should be aware that he wouldn’t be inheriting anything. There was no reasoning with her. She upset me so much that I hung up.’

After that, she says, she and James maintained contact by phone but relations between them were ‘not the same as before. He wanted me to have an abortion but after everything that had happened and then seeing the scan, I felt very differently. I felt very pressurised by him and his family’

The last time she saw James was at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital. Georgie says it became clear he still expected her to terminate the pregnancy.

‘He kept coming in and out of the room on his phone and then he just disappeared and didn’t come back. That was the last time I saw him. It was such a brutal way to be left.’

When Georgie wrote to James, telling him she had to ‘decide what’s best for our baby’, she received an email from his solicitor telling her: ‘He does not wish to have any contact with you now or in the future. However, he remains willing to support you financially with the previous plan to have a termination. Any financial payment would need to be through me.’

Further strongly worded legal letters followed. One sent in October 2017 reads: ‘Frankly, our client feels that he was entrapped by you . . . Our client has only ever wanted to have children in the context of a loving, stable and long-term relationship and clearly that was not the nature of the relationship he had with you. Our client has no intention of having any involvement with your child.’

James Reeve has claimed he is a victim of 'entrapment' who is not paid enough to make child maintenance payments

Extraordinarily, a solicitor’s letter was even sent to Georgie’s widowed mother stating: ‘Reports through third parties have led our client to be concerned for Georgie’s mental state.’

It continued: ‘He felt that it was necessary to put on record his own position so that you know how best to help her.’ Henry was born on March 5, 2018 and Georgie texted James to say he was welcome to visit at the hospital, but she received no response. Requests to meet via a legal mediation service were also rejected.

After she turned to the Government’s Child Maintenance Service, James complied with instructions to pay her £407.71. According to his solicitor, a further review by the CMS showed ‘he lacked a current salary and was only in receipt of a modest income from his family’. The CMS does not consider assets, but the Department for Work and Pensions, which oversees the service, is monitoring the case.

And it is clear that Georgie is not going to go away quietly. When the Rector of St Luke’s wrote to the Bishop of Lincoln in August, he asked for an investigation into the ‘pastorally unacceptable situation which has clear safeguarding implications’.

Writing back a month later, the Bishop of Grantham said an investigation had concluded ‘this is not a safeguarding matter’.

Georgina with her son at the Hurlingham Club. Miss David claims she was made pregnant by James Reeve - polo-playing Old Etonian son of Lincoln Cathedral's lay Canon

Miss David met Mr Reeve in 2017 and the pair quickly began dating but she fell pregnant

