Crikey, it was stressful and confusing and, looking back over the 350-odd columns, I can see how powerfully influential any new thinking on parenting can be. The main theme of everything I’ve written is: ‘Am I doing this right?’

The columns have been a relentless quest for the best rules on being a good mum.

The columns have been a relentless quest for the best rules on being a good mum

Now, of course, as a mother of four children aged five, ten, almost 13 and 14, I can see this search for the parenting commandments is ridiculous. They don’t exist.

Mothering is like the scene in The Wizard Of Oz when Dorothy goes behind the curtain to find there is no wizard and she’s got to work out how to get back home on her own.

I had my first baby at 33 and my last at 43, so I’ve spent a decade reading more parenting books than this family of six have used loo rolls — yet all I can offer is this obvious, but effective, advice: there is no right way, only your way.

As long as everyone is alive, enough limbs intact to dunk a biscuit into a soothing cup of tea at the end of the day, then you’re more than likely doing OK.

I realised this once my eldest hit her teens. Nothing prepares you for the tsunami of unpredictable behaviour you face with a teen. It’s like being on a rollercoaster naked and blindfolded . . . EVERY DAY.

Now, as I watch her fingers slip through mine into adulthood, I know it doesn’t matter a jot how long I breastfed her for, or whether she was in the perfect sleep routine.

Would she get higher grades if I had been there at every school pick-up with a sugarless snack?

Would she be on course to win a Pulitzer Prize if I’d seen every school play? Would she be the scientist who cures cancer if I’d given up my career to hothouse her? Who can say and does it matter, anyway?

Mothering is like the scene in The Wizard Of Oz when Dorothy goes behind the curtain to find there is no wizard and she’s got to work out how to get back home on her own. Pictured (left to right), Gracie, Sky and Henry

But does she know I love her? Does she know that everything she’s done from the day she promised me 1,000 kisses every bedtime to the day this week she set fire to the toaster is wonderful to me? I think she does, and that is the most important thing.

She says please and thank you in public, opens doors for the elderly and often flushes the loo.

Frankly, this is the best you can hope for.

Being a mum is, indeed, brilliant. It’s unpredictable, hilarious, heart-breaking and uplifting at the same time, and makes you question your own mortality and morality.

It exposes you to more germs than licking a laboratory Petri dish and makes your pain threshold so high you can tread on Lego barefoot and remain silent, so as not to wake a newborn you’ve spent hours rocking to sleep.

But motherhood is not the only thing that matters in life — this much I do know, whatever the experts say.

Choose to work or not: it is up to you, but remember, whichever option you choose doesn’t make you a better mother than the woman who makes the alternative decision, and no mother has the right to judge another.

So thank you for following the six of us over the years. You’ve been there through seven Christmases and New Years, through two first days at school, through one birth and maternity leave, through the loss of a beloved grandparent and father, the death of a much-hugged dog and a million early-morning episodes of Peppa Pig.

Being a mum is, indeed, brilliant. It’s unpredictable, hilarious, heart-breaking and uplifting at the same time, and makes you question your own mortality and morality. Pictured, Gracie and Mabel

Time has sped past faster than I could have imagined. Gracie-in-the-middle once perfectly described what it felt like, when she said it was as if the world keeps turning, but everything stops moving.

Time stands still in the moments you are kissing your newborn’s head, clutching your toddler’s tiny hands or waving your teenagers goodbye.

Just remember to make the most of every minute of it.

Candy Chronicle: The Highlights

Hello Mabel (June 23, 2011)

The day our little brunette firecracker arrived, I shared one picture of her on the relatively new social media platform called Twitter. This was unusual in those days — how times have changed.

Now, births are live-tweeted or filmed for Facebook. Is this the ultimate in oversharing, or is it a wonderful way to celebrate the miracle of human birth?

I don’t really know the answer to that, but I was in my 40s when I had Mabel and am certainly the oldest mum at school drop-off these days.

I have learnt much from the Mabelanator, as she has become known, and am of the opinion that, if you could choose your birth order, you should choose to be the fourth child. Everyone adores you.

Goodbye to Grandpa (June 13, 2013)

The most heart-breaking dilemma we have faced as parents was the loss of a parent — and how to tell our children.

My husband James’s father William died more suddenly than we’d ever imagined possible, aged 68 of leukaemia, three years ago.

How do you tell a child they will never again be able to see a man who has been in their life since they were born?

His loss pierced our souls and cast a dark shadow that we still feel today. At the time, my children were aged between two and ten. We said nothing the day we found out he had died — it was half-term and we were on holiday in Cornwall. We took some time to process the news ourselves and waited until the day we returned home to sit them on the sofa and explain what had happened, watching how each absorbed the shock.

I marvel constantly at how strong children are, how they cope in times of stress.

Over the days and weeks and months that followed, memories of Grandpa popped out, their little minds dealing with it as best they knew how and living entirely in the moment as children do. We noticed they coped better than us.

Mum guilt: Returning to work from maternity leave (January 25, 2012)

One of the reasons I wanted to write this column was to encourage a debate about making life easier for work-ing mothers.

Going back to work after having a child — however long you take off — is a tough decision. But one thing I know now, which I didn’t during each of four maternity breaks, is I wish I had saved the time for teenage maternity leave.

Your children need you more the older they get, so don’t let the agony of saying goodbye to your baby overwhelm you. Babies don’t remember that bit, it’s more about you than them. If you can be around more as they hit the tricky teens, then that’s far more useful.

The most useful phrase I have encountered in all the stuff I’ve read on parenting is ‘it takes a village to raise a child’

Nannygate (November 22, 2010)

The most useful phrase I have encountered in all the stuff I’ve read on parenting is ‘it takes a village to raise a child’.

Obviously, you love your children but, guess what: other people, not related to them, can love them too. And in the past 14 years, we have employed three wonderful nannies who have really loved our offspring.

This seems to concern many judgmental, ignorant and illogical nitwits who find it hard to accept that couples who both work need some form of childcare.

I have had more online trolling and unpleasant comments about employing a nanny than anything else I have ever written about.

I reckon if I’d chucked a cat in a wheelie bin, I would have received less vitriol than over mentioning my nanny.

Maybe it’s the word — perhaps ‘childminder’, ‘grandmother’, ‘nursery assistant’ or ‘after-school carer’ are more pleasing than the old-school connotations of the word ‘nanny’.

Frankly, I don’t care; having a nanny is not a privilege or a perk, it is a necessity.

It’s nearly 2017, forgoodnessnakes (as my son used to say). Parenting is not the sole responsibility of the human without manbits.

It’s an equal partnership and, sometimes, we need paid assistance to make it work out for everyone. We call ours a nanny. Get over it.

But running a family of four would not have been possible without the support of my husband of 16 years, James. Pictured, Lorraine holding baby Mabel

No more babies (November 28, 2013)

We’re done now, our family is complete and Mr Candy will no doubt remain ever grateful I shared the story of him having the snip with a few million readers.

This doesn’t stop me obsessing over newborns, holding that little bit too long the ones the new mums in my office bring to work. I love babies in the over-the-top manner of some people who adore cats.

But running a family of four would not have been possible without the support of my husband of 16 years, James.

This is equal parenting in action: he does the dentist trips, I do the doctors, we tag team sports days and school plays.

He is the non-confrontational voice of patient reason in a household of fiery, energetic, chaotic and unpredictable personalities.

Frankly, he is the rock that holds the whole volcano together. Without him, none of this would work.

====== 2191 ========

LONDON WOMAN WHO WAS RAPED 8 TIMES WAS FORCED TO BEG POLICE TO PURSUE HER ATTACKER

Lynda Donnelly, pictured, finally saw her rapist jailed 20 years after the crime following a string of police blunders

Lynda Donnelly produces notes scribbled on the packaging of the Boots No. 7 foundation she wore in the days when appearance mattered to her.

‘Rang Crimewatch at 9ish, March 31. Told police would ring me. Rang back three times. 11.40pm: no joy. April 1, rang police complaints. Lady gave me chief of police Paul Stephenson’s number . . .’ And so on.

It is one of many bits of paper in a file Lynda began to compile on the day the ‘happiest years’ of her life abruptly ended: July 22, 1996 — the date Lynda was brutally raped in her South-East London home.

Her terrifying ordeal — the full details of which are too disturbing to reveal in a family newspaper — lasted for several hours as her two young children slept in adjoining bedrooms.

Suffice to say, the injuries she sustained were so appalling she was unable to see her five-year-old daughter or four-year-old-son for six weeks for fear of distressing them.

‘I thought about killing myself but I couldn’t do it because of my children,’ says Lynda, now 45.

‘They were the only thing that kept me going — that and because I was so sure the police were going to catch the guy.

They said: “We’ve put his DNA on a database. As soon as he gets caught doing something else, it will come up.”’

But it didn’t. Instead, due to an extraordinary catalogue of police blunders — including mislaying crucial DNA evidence — her attacker was able to evade justice for 20 years.

In this time, he moved to Los Angeles, where he built a career as a music producer who could afford swanky apartments, Aston Martins and invitations to parties where he claims to have rubbed shoulders with the likes of Oscar-winning actor Leonardo Di Caprio.

But this summer, those star-studied parties ended when Pierre Antoine Bate, now 42, finally stood trial at Southwark Crown Court after the case was reopened by the Metropolitan Police’s cold case unit.

After just an hour of deliberation, the jury found him guilty on eight counts of raping Lynda.

Pierre Bate, pictured, had moved to Los Angeles where he worked as a music producer and rubbed shoulders with Leonardo Di Caprio but has now been jailed for 24 years

Once he had been sentenced to 24 years in prison, jubilant police officers made much of how his conviction demonstrated their commitment to identifying and arresting such monsters ‘no matter how much time has passed’.

Try telling that to Lynda. For, until the cold case team became involved in 2011, police appeared to show woefully little interest in tracking down her attacker.

Instead, they fobbed her off, on occasion ridiculed her and even, after much of the evidence had been lost, swore blind her case ‘didn’t exist’.

In short, she was treated like a fantasist.

‘This wasn’t like an episode from an American crime series where dedicated cops battle away for years to catch the bad guys,’ she says.

‘It was more like being caught up in a film about a conspiracy.

‘I even phoned chief of police Paul Stephenson [former Police Commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson] in 2008 to try to get him to do something for me, and was told by the woman officer who called me back: “I’m sorry, your case doesn’t exist. There is no crime report, no DNA, no statement.”

‘I said: “What do I do now?” She said: “I don’t really know.”

‘I was at breaking point. I’d been to so many different police stations over the years, and spoken to so many different officers literally begging for help, but none of them wanted to help me.

'And now I was being told my case didn’t exist. I thought they were deliberately trying to drive me mad.

‘I was pacing the floor, literally pulling my hair out. I thought: “How am I ever going to end this?”

‘I was shaking. I could hardly breathe. I sat down and it was like an epiphany. I suddenly thought: “Oh my God — the Croydon Guardian.”’

The local newspaper had run a story shortly after the attack.

‘I thought: “However much the police say it didn’t exist, I can prove it did.” The report would have been archived in the library.

Lynda, pictured, said police 'fobbed her off' and 'treated her like a fantasist' during her lengthy battle for justice

‘I pulled myself together and rang the Independent Police Complaints Commission.

A woman said: “I’m going to try to find some way to do something for you.”’

Today, Lynda has nothing but praise for the cold case team whose persistence led to Bate’s conviction.

But nothing can erase the mental anguish she suffered at the hands of other officers.

And she finds herself wondering about something Bate himself told the British court.

During his trial at Southwark Crown Court, he revealed to the jury that he had been arrested and faced charges of sexual assault and attempted murder following a particularly brutal attack on a woman in California in 2014.

The case against him was subsequently dropped, and he strenuously denies any involvement.

But instead of walking free, he was extradited to face the charges of raping Lynda as, in the meantime, police in London had identified him as her rapist.

‘Nine months before he raped me, he had sexually assaulted another woman in London.

Lynda waived her right to anonymity aiming to encourage more women who are victims of violent sexual attacks to come forward

'He was a repeat attacker who was getting more violent with each attack,’ Lynda says.

‘Perhaps there are other women out there — women who might be too embarrassed to call the police or did call them and were terrified out of their wits waiting, like I was, for their attacker to be caught.’

Indeed, this is why Lynda has bravely decided to waive the anonymity afforded to victims of sexual attacks.

She hopes her story will encourage any other victims there might be to come forward so that Bate, who is preparing an appeal against his conviction, will die in jail.

‘Knowing he’s in prison has made a big difference,’ she says. ‘But, I do believe if they’d got this guy sooner, I wouldn’t be in the state I’m in.’

Today, Lynda barely sleeps and rarely goes out. When she does go to bed, she sleeps for only a few hours with a knife beside her.

A year ago she was diagnosed with post-traumatic stress syndrome but, much as she’s begged for help, she has received no counselling.

‘Fear was how it started,’ she says. ‘Now it’s a way of life. When I do go out, I get this surge in my stomach and think that I’m being watched.

‘Going to the authorities all the time, begging for help, and then being told the case didn’t even exist hasn’t helped.’

The sentence ends in tears. She breathes deeply. Collects herself.

‘When the people who are meant to help you — the police, your doctor, mental health — are looking at you as though they don’t believe you, it’s like you’re no one.

'That is how I feel, even today: that I’m nothing.’

Bate, pictured in 1996, began stalking Lynda and breaking into her home before finally attacking her in her bedroom while she was sleeping on July 22, 1996

Lynda is, in fact, a talented artist, who, at the age of 25, was simply trying to build a life for herself and her young children after an acrimonious separation from their father.

She was swimming three times a week, running every morning and preparing to study psychology at college when Bate, who was on remand for burglary at the time, began stalking her and periodically breaking into her home.

‘At first I noticed things were being moved around my house,’ Lynda says. ‘Then, one day, a photograph of me went missing from a silver frame.

‘It was weird. I’d come home and there’d be this musty smell, but there was no sign of a break-in.

‘My family thought it was my ex-partner, until one morning I opened the curtains, sat down on the sofa, looked up at the mirror and there was a face print in the glass in Vaseline.

‘This guy had put Vaseline on his face and rolled it on the mirror to get this perfect print.

'You could see a goatee, stubble and it was so high up — about 6ft — and my ex was only 5ft 6in.’

Lynda was asleep in her bedroom on that sweltering July night when she suddenly awoke around 1am to see a man crouching in her room.

So vivid is the attack, even after all this time, she unwittingly lapses into the present tense: ‘I think I’m dreaming. He’s looking out of my window but slowly turns round. Looks at me. I realise I’m not dreaming. I try to make a beeline for the door, but he takes two strides and beats me to it.

‘He grabs me and says: “I’ve got mates in with your kids.” I try to get away. He grabs this arm from behind me.’ She gestures to her right arm.

‘There’s that musty smell. I try to get away. He pushes me onto the bed. Starts raping me.

'I carry on kind of fighting, but it’s so hot and sweaty. Even when he’s trying to grab me, his hands are sliding off.

‘My brain’s racing. I’m thinking: “How do I get out of this?” Even if I get out of this room, there’s no way I’m going to run out of the house and leave my kids.

Lynda's sustained such severe injuries in the attack that she was not able to see her children for six weeks for fear of distressing them

‘I’ll have to run into one of their bedrooms and put something against the door, but the other one will be vulnerable and I can’t do it. I can’t choose. I don’t think there are words that can describe . . . I’m sorry.’

She breaks off, sobbing. But after a few minutes to compose herself, Lynda is determined to continue.

‘It’s the detail that’s important,’ she says. ‘It could trigger something in someone else’s mind.

'Things like the fact he told me he was waiting for someone. He kept saying he was going.

'I’d hear the floorboards creak on the landing, then I’d see his shadow come back into the room.

‘I think it was the second or third time he came back that he blindfolded me.’

Bate raped Lynda a total of eight times during that dreadful night. She says it felt like a lifetime.

‘My biggest fear was my kids were going to walk in or find me dead. He kept putting a pillow over my head. I couldn’t breathe. I thought: “This is it. He’s going to kill me.” ’

Thankfully, Lynda survived. Bate finally left when a car pulled up outside — Lynda believes it was his friend.

‘I wasn’t sure he’d definitely gone. I heard his feet disappear, but I couldn’t hear the stairs creak.

'I thought he was in one of the kid’s rooms. I got up, checked on the kids. He wasn’t there. I grabbed a knife and a towel and dialled 999.’

Police received her call at 2.49 am and responded immediately. Lynda’s sister arrived to collect her children, while she was taken to a rape suite where she was examined and swabbed for DNA evidence.

Such was her distress that it took two days before police could take her statement.

Meanwhile, officers collected evidence from her home, including bedding, a dressing gown and a cigarette packet that bore the attacker’s fingerprint.

This crucial evidence disappeared and was never recovered. In fact, the only DNA that survived were traces of Bate’s semen that had been taken at the rape suite.

As the months and years passed without an arrest, Lynda found herself being shunted from officer to officer, police station to police station as she tried to get justice.

There was no offer of counselling and little information available about her case. ‘I spent years going through the motions of waiting for them to catch this guy.

Lynda attended every day of the trial at Southwark Crown Court despite suffering anxiety attacks

'I’d try to put on a smile, but it was always there in my brain. I started totally changing and not being able to sleep added to it.

‘I had terrible nightmares — always about the attack and about him, going over and over in my mind like a video — but I never wanted to forget his face because when they caught him . . .’ She stops again, overcome with emotion.

In March 2008, the BBC’s Crimewatch programme featured an episode about the Minstead Rapist, a serial rapist who preyed upon and sexually assaulted more than 100 elderly women in South-East London between 1992 and 2009.

Though it transpired those offences were committed by another man, the similarities to Lynda’s case were striking.

She rang the hotline, but, as documented on that make-up packet, her repeated calls were never returned.

‘I called Police Complaints, who gave me the chief of police’s number. When the officer told me my case didn’t exist, I hit the roof.

'I don’t know if you’ve ever been so angry or shocked you can feel your adrenaline shooting through your body? That’s what I get.

‘You can’t eat. You can’t sleep. You feel completely lost. Sometimes I think: “After all these years, have they driven me mad or have I driven myself mad just trying to get this guy caught?”

‘All I can say is, thank God I remembered that newspaper report. I don’t believe they’d ever have bothered with my case if I hadn’t.’

Her scepticism is understandable because, that same year, Bate had been extradited from the U.S. to stand trial for a sexual assault he had committed in 1995.

Yet despite DNA evidence, no link was made between him and Lynda’s attacker. On his release from a 26-month jail sentence, Bate — a U.S. citizen — was free to return to his life in California.

‘When the cold case team turned up on my doorstep, I was very stand-offish. They wanted me to sign a release form for the DNA.

‘I said: “I’ve been told for years that this case doesn’t exist. Now suddenly you’re asking me to sign a release form.”

‘I was getting angrier and angrier. The officer said they’d found my statement.

‘The next time she came she said: “Do you know a guy called Pierre Bate?” I said: “No.” She said: “That’s the guy who attacked you. He’s out of the country. We are going to get him extradited.”

‘I thought: “They’re just doing this to shut me up. They’re fobbing me off again.” But she said: “Lynda, you’ve got to trust me.”’

Thanks to enhanced DNA techniques, the cold case team were able to establish with a one-in-a-billion certainty that the semen taken from Lynda’s body at the rape suite was Bate’s.

Scotland Yard's cold case team got involved in the investigation in 2011 and DNA testing eventually proved Bate was the guilty party

When Bate was finally brought to justice in July this year, Lynda went to court every day, despite suffering severe anxiety attacks.

‘I said to the jury: “I don’t want to be anywhere else but here. As scary as it is, I’ve fought too hard to get here.”

'It was a bit emotional. Some of the women jurors were crying.

‘Then to hear him bragging about the famous people he knew, the parties he’d been to, the life he’d led. And he kept smiling at me . . .’

She is angry now, as well she might be. ‘I’ve done 20 years in my own prison. Now, I have a chance of a new beginning.

‘But Bate is threatening to appeal, and I worry because the police mislaid so much evidence . . .

‘That’s why I hope that if there are any other women who have been attacked by him, they’ll come forward.

====== 2192 ========

ASK THE GP: DR MARTIN SCURR ANSWERS YOUR HEALTH QUESTIONS

Recently, I was in hospital after a suspected heart attack, which turned out to be viral myocarditis. On being discharged I was given no treatment apart from aspirin and no advice. There seems to be very little known about this condition, the opinion being you are lucky to survive as many die. Can you give any more insight?

Deb Dormer, Northampton.

Myocarditis refers to inflammation of the heart muscle and it is often caused by an infection — not just viral, but bacterial or fungal, too.

However, viruses are the most common cause — there are 21 different types that can lead to myocarditis, including adenoviruses, which cause the common cold, and the Epstein-Barr virus, which leads to glandular fever.

Myocarditis can also be caused by an autoimmune disease — when the immune system turns on the body — or toxins such as alcohol, and in some cases, no cause is ever determined.

Health fact: Myocarditis refers to inflammation of the heart muscle and it is often caused by an infection — not just viral, but bacterial or fungal, too

To simplify matters I am going to limit my reply to viral myocarditis.

The symptoms vary depending on the severity of the inflammation: mild cases may go undetected or only cause minimal fatigue, but those with more severe inflammation may experience chest pain, breathlessness, abnormal heart rhythms, ankle swelling and reduced exercise capacity.

These occur as the inflammation tips the heart into what we call failure — but which actually means it becomes inefficient.

Whether this becomes a long-term issue varies from case to case.

Diagnosing myocarditis is not always straightforward — sometimes the symptoms of the infection that caused the heart to inflame may overshadow any heart failure symptoms.

One example is the Coxsackie virus, which usually causes headache, fever, blisters on the hands and feet, along with mouth ulcers.

Studies have shown that up to 5 per cent of cases have cardiac inflammation when the infection occurs in adults, but mostly this is mild and remains undetected.

Tell-tale signs: The symptoms vary depending on the severity of the inflammation, but can include: chest pain, breathlessness, abnormal heart rhythms and ankle swelling

Write to Dr Scurr To contact Dr Scurr with a health query, write to him at Good Health Daily Mail, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT or email drmartin@dailymail.co.uk — including contact details. Dr Scurr cannot enter into personal correspondence. His replies cannot apply to individual cases and should be taken in a general context. Always consult your own GP with any health worries.

Another difficulty is that there are no precise tests to prove the diagnosis save one: an endomyocardial muscle biopsy, an invasive procedure to obtain a piece of heart muscle, which involves a tube being threaded into the heart from an artery in the arm.

On the end is a device with small jaws that takes a sample to be checked for infection or inflammation (it’s not always possible to identify the virus).

During the procedure, pressure can also be measured within the heart to determine how effectively it’s working. However, as this procedure carries a risk of introducing abnormal heart rhythms or infection, it’s restricted to those most seriously ill.

In others, it’s diagnosed from the cardiac symptoms — such as abnormal heart rhythm — coinciding with a viral illness.

If myocarditis is suspected, then detailed investigations to check the condition of the heart will be carried out to assess the level of inflammation and failure: these may include an electrocardiogram (recording the electrical activity of the heart), and echocardiogram (an ultrasound scan of the beating heart) and possibly an MRI scan.

The treatment depends on the severity of the inflammation and the virus behind it.

Bed rest, oxygen, diuretics if the heart failure has led to fluid building up (often around the ankles because blood flow is inefficient), medications to help steady abnormal rhythms, and anticoagulants to help reduce the risk of clots, which increases when the action of the heart becomes sluggish, might be suggested.

For many, once the infection has passed, the heart recovers with no long-term ill effects. Others aren’t so lucky and retain a degree of heart failure.

The fact that you’re home on no medication apart from aspirin is reassuring.

This suggests you were at the mild end of the spectrum with the prospect of making a full and uncomplicated recovery — a great relief.

====== 2193 ========

DR ELLIE CANNON FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

DR ELLIE CANNON: Cysts on the scalp are incredibly common. Usually they appear as round, skin-coloured lumps that do not hurt. They would not typically be associated with dizziness or pain. If a cyst (pictured stock image) is causing symptoms, it may be as a result of infection in the cyst, or a different diagnosis should be considered. Behind the ears, there are normal glands just like those in the neck. These may feel similar to a sebaceous cyst and could be tender if swollen. This occurs if they are fighting infection in the scalp or within the ear. Cyst-like small lumps may be lipomas – benign lumps of very soft fat, but they are not common on the scalp. ...read

====== 2194 ========

ASK DR ELLIE CANNON: CAN A CYST BE THE REASON I'M DIZZY?

Q. I have a benign cyst behind my ear. I have been feeling dizzy and my throat hurts. Is it to blame? I am an otherwise healthy 52-year-old woman.

A. Cysts on the scalp are incredibly common. Usually they appear as round, skin-coloured lumps that do not hurt. They would not typically be associated with dizziness or pain. If a cyst is causing symptoms, it may be as a result of infection in the cyst, or a different diagnosis should be considered. Behind the ears, there are normal glands just like those in the neck. These may feel similar to a sebaceous cyst and could be tender if swollen. This occurs if they are fighting infection in the scalp or within the ear. Cyst-like small lumps may be lipomas – benign lumps of very soft fat, but they are not common on the scalp.

If a cyst (pictured) is causing symptoms, it may be as a result of infection in the cyst, or a different diagnosis should be considered

Cysts on the scalp are incredibly common, writes Dr Ellie Cannon. But they can also appear in other areas, such as the back of the neck

Q. I suffer from polycystic ovary syndrome, resulting in insulin resistance and extreme weight gain. I’ve tried dieting but nothing seems to work.

A. Polycystic ovary syndrome, often referred to as PCOS, is a gynaecological condition associated with an irregular cycle, excessive hair growth and weight gain due to the hormone insulin, which regulates blood glucose within the body.

DO YOU HAVE A QUESTION FOR DR ELLIE? Email DrEllie@mailonsunday.co.uk or write to Health, The Mail on Sunday, 2 Derry Street, London, W8 5TT. Dr Ellie can only answer in a general context and cannot respond to individual cases, or give personal replies. If you have a health concern, always consult your own GP.

Insulin resistance is when the body’s tissues no longer respond effectively to insulin, leaving an excess of the hormone in the body. This can happen with obesity, hence the relationship between obesity and type 2 diabetes. Insulin resistance is also common in PCOS.

Diet to improve symptoms and also lose weight must focus on the insulin resistance. You need a diet with a low glycaemic index as it doesn’t raise insulin levels. The best diet is one with lower (but not no) carbohydrate intake, avoiding starches and sugars and refined carbohydrates, plus high fibre. Exercise is crucial, as it lowers circulating glucose, reduces insulin and encourages weight loss.

Kate's wise to put a cork in her drinking

Good Morning Britain’s Kate Garraway, announced a dramatic change to her lifestyle last week: cutting back on booze for the sake of her health. Inspired by her co-presenter Susanna Reid, who ditched alcohol in January, Kate, 51, now limits herself to a single glass of wine on special occasions.

And she’s already seeing results – blood tests revealed her liver is now as healthy as a four-year-old’s.

Good Morning Britain’s Kate Garraway (pictured), announced a dramatic change to her lifestyle last week: cutting back on booze for the sake of her health

The problem for Kate, and so many others, is drinking because everyone else chooses to, which leads to alcohol units racking up.

Evidence shows the detrimental effects on the liver, heart and cancer risk. A glass once in a while won’t pose a threat, but knocking back bottles almost certainly will.

Anyone planning to take a holiday abroad must have been shocked to learn that a British man died from rabies after being bitten by a cat infected with the brain disease during a break in Morocco.

The deadly bite happened two months ago, but the victim, 58-year-old father-of-two Omar Zouhri, from Buckinghamshire, succumbed to the infection only last week .

British father Omar Zouhri is pictured in a tragic final photo from hospital before dying of rabies contracted from an infected cat. Image undated. His inquest took place today

While terrifying, such a tragic tale is extremely rare – there have been only four cases of rabies in British travellers since the year 2000.

But this should not stop people travelling to certain countries, including Egypt, Tunisia and Morocco, from asking their travel clinic for a rabies vaccination, particularly if they may be in contact with animals.

If bitten, or even scratched, by an animal abroad, the most important thing is to thoroughly wash the area with soap and water and urgently seek medical advice, even if you have been vaccinated.

Rabies is treatable, but the treatment must start within a few hours of being bitten and before symptoms appear.

====== 2195 ========

JANE CLARKE ON BRACES: BLEND IN WELL FOR EASY EATING

Jane Clarke on braces: Blend in well for easy eating



Every Tuesday, Britain's leading nutritionist explains how to eat your way to health. This week Jane tackles braces and malted brown bread...

I have recently had a brace fitted on my back teeth to alleviate pain in the side of my face. I'm 54 and my favourite foods have always been vegetables, fruit and nuts, but I can no longer chew them. What can I do to eat or replace the essential nutrients in my diet? Carol Phillips, via e-mail



Poor you, it must be miserable! It's a common problem - a friend recently asked my advice about her young daughter, who'd also had braces fitted.

Fortunately, there are several things you can do to minimise the pain while you're getting used to them.

The important thing is to have a healthy balance of the food groups, so you get a good amount of essential nutrients and energy. This means carbohydrates and proteins, as well as fruit and vegetables.



Invest in a juicer and blender to help you eat good food easily with a brace

First, invest in a juicer and a blender. I like hand-held blenders, as you can just put them into a saucepan and make a soup or blend a sauce until very smooth without the hassle of cleaning separate liquidiser parts. You can buy reasonably cheap juicers and hand-held blenders, and they're well worth it for your needs.

When it comes to fruit, you have a few options. Obviously, you can make smoothies and juices, either on their own or by adding yoghurt or milk. Try blending some raspberries or strawberries with milk. The milk can be full-cream or skimmed - it depends how much fat you want - both have roughly the same amount of calcium.

If you're underweight or need a high calorie intake (some people who have a sore mouth can't eat much), then fullcream milk is the answer, perhaps with some fresh cream, too.

Do you have a nutritional question?



Jane will answer a selection of readers' queries every week.



Write to Jane Clarke, Good Health, Daily Mail, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT, or e-mail jane.clarke@dailymail.co.uk.

Jane cannot enter into personal correspondence. Please include contact details.



Her replies cannot apply to individual cases and should be taken in a general context. Contact your GP with any health problems.



Smoothies can also be a valuable source of fibre, and if you don't fancy making them yourself, there are some good brands in the supermarket.

Cooking fruit in a pan or the microwave is another delicious solution, making it easier to eat. You can serve it with custard or yoghurt. Equally, cooking vegetables makes them softer, too, but watch you don't overcook them and lose heat-sensitive nutrients, such as vitamin C.

Vegetables most at risk of this include potatoes and spinach; by steaming them and then mashing or pureeing, maybe adding some stock, cream, olive oil or grated Parmesan, they'll taste better and still have some nutrients.

Also, why not try roasting your vegetables, which makes them softer to eat? This also reduces the vitamin C content - but this shouldn't stop you. It's about choosing a selection of different types of cooking methods, so you don't become bored.

Roasted peppers and other vegetables with some soft buffalo mozzarella is a meal everyone can tuck into.

So often people panic that their life has to become very different from everyone else's in the family. This can make them not bother much, but try not to fall into this trap - think of dishes everyone can eat: souffles, omelettes and puddings such as creme brulee, mousse and canned fruit.

Soups hot and cold, such as gazpacho, are another option. You could blend some of the chunkier, ready-made ones, or if you make your own - why not add ham or make chicken soup to get some protein into your diet.

Even crusty bread - a good source of carbohydrate - can become edible if you let it soak in the soup for long enough.

As for your love of nuts, choose smooth-nut butters, such as cashew and hazelnut. You can add these to smoothies or spread them on soft wholemeal bread, depending on how much chewing you can actually do.

Porridge - an excellent source of fibre and energy - can be made very smooth by grinding the oats right down. This can make a lovely breakfast with apple puree or mashed banana with honey drizzled on top.

Pasta sauces such as bolognese - another good source of protein - can be blended just before eating and served with rice or very small pasta shapes, which need hardly any chewing. Mashed potato is another great choice, if you can't chew well.

Above all, remember your meals should have the same variety and balance of nutrients as usual. Hopefully, I've given you lots of ideas to try to keep you from falling into an 'I'll just have a soup and a milkshake' existence, which would be very boring.





Is malted brown bread as nutritionally beneficial as wholemeal? Reader, Notts





Jane says... No. Delicious as it is, brown bread doesn't contain nearly as much fibre as wholemeal. Fibre helps prevent heart disease and keep the gut regular, so you won't be getting these benefits by eating 'brown' bread. This is a rather deceptive label; it can either mean the bread contains 10 per cent bran (this is the official definition of brown bread), or it can be used to describe white bread with added colouring (often caramel) to make it appear 'brown'.

Wholemeal, however, can be called this only when it contains the entire wheat grain.

We are encouraged to eat plenty of wholegrain or wholemeal - the terms mean the same thing - as it keeps our hearts healthy by stabilising blood fat levels and helps lower blood pressure.



Delicious as it is, brown bread doesn't contain nearly as much fibre as wholemeal

It depends on how much you eat - don't go OTT on the bread and butter thinking the health benefits make this OK. But it's better to chose the wholemeal bread option than the white.

People who eat more wholegrain also seem to have lower rates of diseases such as gout, Crohn's disease, asthma and arthritis.

But, of course, wholegrain doesn't suit everyone. Children shouldn't eat too much of it, because it can fill them up too much so they don't get enough energy from other foods, and people with irritable bowel syndrome can find that the fibre in the bread aggravates their symptoms, in which case brown bread is a healthy alternative.

It's still a good source of energy and carbohydrate and has a little fibre.

It may be easier to get children to eat brown - as opposed to wholegrain - bread which they may decide they don't like (but do persevere, as they will need more fibre as they get older).

My rule of thumb: older children should eat half of their food (such as bread, pasta and cereal) made from wholegrain and half made from white flour; for preschoolers, just over a third wholemeal and the rest white flour.



HEALTHY MEALS IN MINUTES...

Chicken & watermelon salad

Serves 4



100g broad beans 750g



roast chicken, bones removed and cut into thin slices



1kg watermelon (about 1/2 small watermelon), peel removed and thinly sliced



1 bunch trimmed watercress



1 ripe avocado, sliced



25g pine nuts, toasted



Juice of 1 lemon



2tbsp extra-virgin olive oil



Steam or boil the broad beans for 4 minutes - they are cooked when they rise to the surface and feel tender. Drain and rinse under cold water immediately to keep them green and fresh.

Combine the chicken with the watermelon, watercress and avocado in a large salad bowl. Scatter over the broad beans and pine nuts. Mix the lemon juice and olive oil together and season with plenty of freshly ground pepper.



Drizzle over the salad just before serving.

Chicken, broad bean and watermelon salad









====== 2196 ========

JEFF PRESTRIDGE: TIGHTEN YOUR BELTS... AND PRAY WE DON'T GET CORBYN!

Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn

Although the full ramifications of the hostile political reaction to the Prime Minister's European Union withdrawal agreement have yet to play out, one thing is for sure.

Both the value of the pound and the stock market are going to remain volatile in the weeks ahead. For consumers (as opposed to politicians soaked in dogma), the consequences of yet more uncertainty will be felt in our pockets.

The value of our Isas and pensions is likely to gyrate from day to day, causing some of us to question whether we should continue investing. Inflation, currently ticking along at 2.4 per cent, will rise on the back of higher import costs, meaning our money is going to buy us a smaller shopping basket. As for those thinking of a winter holiday break, they will get fewer euros and dollars for their pounds.

According to currency specialist FairFX, sterling is currently down 13 per cent against the euro compared to the day before the referendum vote took place (June 23, 2016). This means £154 less in euros for every £1,000 exchanged.

The destinations where the pound is now buying more currency than 29 months ago include Argentina, Egypt, Iran, Sri Lanka and Turkey. I will leave you to decide whether any of these tickle your fancy for a holiday.

Interest rates may also be notched down a peg or two if the country is gripped by a mix of political and economic paralysis. Bad news for savers, good news for borrowers. Not cheerful news, I am afraid. Time for battening down the hatches, paying down the mortgage and praying that commissars Corbyn and McDonnell will not get the keys to Numbers 10 and 11 Downing Street.

***

Somtimes, financial organisations mean well but are woefully behind the curve.None is more snail like than the Banking Standards Board, an organisation set up to promote high standards across building societies and banks. A commendable objective but one it has no hope of achieving.

Its latest thoughts are on the hurt and inconvenience many small businesses are experiencing as a result of rampant bank branch closures. This issue, it says, 'needs to get higher up everybody's agenda' and shared branches should be looked at.

Jeff says his soft spot for shoe repair chain Timpson is 'more about its refreshing stance towards ex-convicts, giving them a chance to reintegrate back into society by working in its stores'

A bit late for all that, I would say. The big banks will be doing no U-turn on branch closures. Apps and the internet are the future as far as they are concerned. As for shared branches, there is more chance of me walking on the Moon than that idea getting off the ground.

***

Timpson is one of my favourite retailers. Not because it rescues many of my pairs of shoes from the scrapheap, thereby avoiding the expense of new ones. Or a result of the fact that its staff are quite happy to punch an extra hole or two in my trouser belt for free (as they did last week with a nifty bradawl) provided I put a coin or two in a charity box.

My soft spot for Timpson is more about its refreshing stance towards ex-convicts, giving them a chance to reintegrate back into society by working in its stores. John Timpson (founder, owner and chairman) and son James (chief executive) deserve much credit for such a pioneering approach. It is also now leading the way in encouraging workers to save for a rainy day by agreeing to act as a guinea pig for an initiative called 'sidecar savings'.

Run in conjunction with the National Employment Savings Trust, the scheme automatically directs a small slice of an employee's pay into an interest-bearing savings account. This is in addition to the pension contribution the worker makes under the Government's auto-enrolment rules, money topped up by Timpson.

The objectives are to encourage the savings habit and to ensure workers have some money they can readily access if they are faced with a financial emergency – stopping them from turning to high-cost credit. It is a commendable project which if it works could be rolled out across British industry. I trust it is as successful as Timpson is in getting my shoes to last another year.

====== 2197 ========

SALLY HAMILTON: I’LL FINALLY DITCH MOULDERING SAVINGS LIKE MY MOTH-EATEN JUMPER

Last weekend, I got down to two pressing chores. One was digging out the winter wardrobe – including woolly jumpers that had been stored away since the spring.

Another was raking through paperwork to find the relevant documents to complete my tax return – I am determined to get this done now rather than leave it to the bleak days of January.

But both tasks provided some unwelcome discoveries. Several of my favourite jumpers had been gorged on by moths during the summer months – some could be repaired with a bit of amateur darning but two were so full of holes they had to be thrown away.

WHAT WILL YOU FIND? : Sally Hamilton says scrutinising her bank and credit card statements gave her 'nasty surprises'

The paper trail to the tax return means scrutinising all bank and credit card statements. This also unearthed some nasty surprises – and demands similar repair work. I was reminded of some regular payments for services that I really do not need that also cost me the price of a new sweater or two – perhaps even cashmere ones.

Why I ever signed up for Amazon Prime (£7.99 a month) I do not know. I barely use it – and the videos I prefer on its listings always end up being the ones that demand an extra charge.

Nor do I really need to receive anything so quickly that I must have it delivered the next day.

But worse are my savings accounts. They have remained untouched for several years and between them earn less than 1 per cent interest.

I could be tying them up for a year or two and earning double that. I am one of the army of long-term apathetic savers, I am embarrassed to say.

Research by provider Ford Money suggests more than half of all savers suffer from this condition – leaving our savings to languish for five years or more. I need to stop the rot – as well as the moths. Another job for next weekend.

Moths may be an undesirable pest but Waspi women should not be batted away. This is the acronym for the thousands of women who have been put at a financial disadvantage over their State pension and have got the nickname from the campaign group Women Against the State Pension Inequality.

These women, many born in the 1950s, have been forced to wait up to an extra six years to get their pensions. While the idea of equalising the pension age between men and women (to 65 from last week and 66 by 2020) is undoubtedly fair, what this group experienced was a dearth of information.

Many did not even find out about the age increase until they reached 60, leaving them with no time to make alternative plans for their finances. The Department for Work and Pensions is deaf to the obvious injustice.

At my godson’s wedding the other week, I met a Waspi friend who implored me to highlight the plight of people like her. She had originally planned her retirement on the basis of giving up work about now, but like thousands of other women of her age group she must work on to plug the gap in her finances.

There is action the Government could take – such as allowing access to a smaller State pension earlier. After all, there is a mechanism to do the opposite by deferring the payment – a popular option for those of pension age who are still working and earn a decent wage.

Deferring a State pension by one year boosts the weekly benefit by about 5.8 per cent for every full year the receipt of payment is postponed. Why not do the sums the other way round?

Women generally could do with a moneyspider to sit down beside them.

Yesterday was ‘equal pay day’ – according to women’s group the Fawcett Society – the day when women theoretically have earned their last payslip for the year and start working for free when compared to men who go on to earn until the end of the year.

This is used to illustrate the average pay gap – 14 per cent or so – between the sexes.

But for those who have been saving privately for retirement there is also a gender pensions gap – estimated by consultancy Mercer at more than 40 per cent.

Maike Currie, of Fidelity International, advises women to take early action. An extra 1 per cent of salary salted into a pension from age 25 could close that gap by retirement.

====== 2198 ========

NATIONAL INSURANCE TRICK SHOWS IT SHOULD BE ROLLED IN WITH INCOME TAX

Chancellor Philip Hammond's 'rabbit out the hat' tax cut on Monday was well received, and rightly so as it does put some welcome extra cash in many people's pockets in the crunch time for Brexit.

But there was a sting in the tail, in the form of a rise in national insurance contributions, which undid some of the good from the move.

Funnily enough, Hammond decided not to mention that part in his Budget speech, leaving journalists and others to dig around in the small print of the full Budget Red Book to find out that he was taking with one hand after giving with the other.

There was a sting in the tail of Chancellor Philip Hammond's Budget in the form of a rise in national insurance rates.

This sort of sleight-of-hand exemplifies what is wrong with the current splitting of our tax on income into two parts.

The distinction isn't really there to offer some demarcation of where money is to be spent, as once it all goes into the big central pot, money is money.

The government states exactly how much each of its spending priorities will get out of the total amount it has, plus borrowing, so no further explanation is needed.

Nor is the split between tax and NI truly there to act as a logging system for eligibility for the state pension or other benefits. That could just as easily be measured by the number of years you have paid your income tax.

Really, it's there to obfuscate how much tax we are actually handing over.

Hiving off a big chunk of tax as national insurance allows the government to quote lower headline income tax numbers, and reduces the size of the individual amounts of money taken out of pay packets.

This offers a thin disguise of the true rate of tax paid by individuals and allows the government of the day wriggle room, which it can use in the way Hammond did on Monday.

People working for a living deserve to see exactly how much of their money is spirited away into the government's coffers in one simple, transparent headline figure and percentage.

The true basic rate of tax is 32 per cent, 20 per cent income tax plus 12 per cent NI, while above the higher rate threshold it is 42 per cent, 40 per cent income tax plus 2 per cent NI.

Factor in the benefit of the tax-free personal allowance of £12,500 (from next April), and the reality is that to all intents and purposes a basic rate taxpayer's true effective rate of tax on all earned income is 26 per cent - over a quarter of every pound earnt.

The effective rate goes up for higher earners, climbing well above 30 per cent to more than a third of earnings and beyond.

Philip Hammond gives BBC journalist Andrew Marr a preview of the Budget.

A change that gives a truer picture by putting income tax and NI together, has been looked at by government in the past, but whether it will ever happen is questionable at best.

There would be big admin headaches involved in implementing the change. For example, with pensioners and savers not paying NI, new arrangements would have to be made to make sure they wouldn't be clobbered with big tax rise.

Then there is the fact that no government is going to relish being the one that puts 'income tax' up from 20 to 32 per cent, even if it doesn't actually cost anybody any extra money.

They will be inclined to kick the can down the road and let a future government deal with it.

Whatever your views on tax and public services though, it's hard to argue against the view that people have the right to see what the government is taking from their earnings in the clearest and most honest way possible.

====== 2199 ========

A WEEK DRIVING THE MCLAREN 570GT IS ENOUGH TO REIGNITE YOUR BELIEF IN THE BRITISH CAR INDUSTRY

A tariff-laden Brexit deal would arguably have bigger repercussions on car making than any other industry.

Insiders have warned for months that any restriction from the single market as part of the agreement to exit the European Union could prove terminal for some vehicle manufacturers in Britain.

The latest brand to voice panic was Jaguar Land Rover - owned by Indian firm Tata. Last week, it warned a bad Brexit deal would cost the firm £1.2billion a year and put tens of thousands of jobs in Britain at risk.

That is a stark warning from a company which has invested heavily into central England in recent years.

But drive a McLaren 570GT for a week like I have and it will reignite your belief that British vehicle makers can survive anything - including a bad Brexit deal.

British brilliance: McLaren sold a record number of cars last year. We decided to find out why demand is so high by taking the stunning 570GT for a near 1,000-mile test

What is the McLaren 570GT?

Currently, it is the tamest of all McLarens on sale.

Bear that statement in mind when you consider these statistics: a 3.8-litre twin-turbo V8, maximum power output of 562bhp, acceleration from 0 to 62mph in 3.4 seconds and a top speed of 204mph. It also has suicide doors. Not exactly what you'd call mellow, is it?

But despite all that, this is as close as we've come to seeing the British supercar builder create something with its sensible hat on.

For now, it's the only GT - or grand tourer - in the McLaren range, designed to deal with long-distance journeys that doesn't need to end in the car park of a chiropractor.

However, it hasn't been built from the ground up with the the sole focus of comfort in mind - far from it.

Instead, it shares its DNA with McLaren's barnstorming 570S Sport Series model, though tuned - or detuned - into something that can be marketed as something slightly more civilised.

Making it less performance orientated has come at a cost to customers, though.

The £157,000 price tag is a £10,000 premium on the 570S it's based on, which also happens to be the 'most affordable' McLaren in showrooms today.

‹ Slide me › The tamest McLaren yet: That's some statement, and one that needs to be taken with a pinch of salt when you consider it has a top speed of 204mph. And can you really call a car with suicide doors mellow?

What does that extra ten grand get you?

In a nutshell, a boot that isn't really a boot, a slight delay on needing a hearing aid and suspension that will rattle your bones rather than see them disintegrate.

The unique rear storage deck offers an additional, claimed, 220-litres of loading room to combine with the 150-litres already in the nose to provide - again, claimed - Ford Focus rivaling luggage space.

In reality, that rear hatch is about good enough for a couple of suit carriers and not much else unless you want to entirely block the view through the rear window.

That said, the glass lid is a stunning piece of craftsmanship and McLaren's incredible eye to detail means each one is hinged for its delivery destination so it always opens on the pavement side (rising to the right for UK-bound models and the left for cars shipped to America, for instance).

That unique rear storage deck offers a claimed 220 litres of extra luggage space. Combined with the compartment in the nose of the 570GT, it has around the same carrying capacity as a Ford Focus family car

The glass door is a beautiful piece of design. McLaren even hinges each one specifically to where it will be used so it always opens on the pavement side

As well as being able to carry more of your passenger's luggage, it also lets you hold a conversation with the lucky person you've hand-picked to share the trip with.

That's because McLaren has loaded it with sound-deadening materials to effectively mute the twin-turbo 3.8-litre motor that's stowed just a matter of inches from your lobes.

While this has added a fraction more weight (37kg more than a 570S when combined with the glass boot lid), it does mean your vocal chords and eardrums won't have to compete against a Pavarotti-like engine soundtrack for hours.

The tyres have also been changed, with Pirelli P-Zeros compromising grip for reduced road noise and better spine-protecting ride quality.

Softer suspension springs, comfier damping and slower steering make the 570GT feel less agile than the 570S it's based on, but you'll appreciate it when you're embarking on long-distance journeys

Also saving your back from reconstructive surgery is a more forgiving suspension set-up.

The springs are softer than those fitted to the 570S and the dampers have been calibrated to ease the thud of potholes on your bottom.

The steering rack has also been slowed slightly to make it turn more like a well-trained Crufts winner rather than darting from one direction to the other like a Jack Russell chasing a fly.

Finally, in what can only be described as a brave new world for McLaren, it's been lavished with a glovebox, central storage compartment and - prepare to gasp - a cupholder. Fernando Alonso's F1 car doesn't even get that!

Just because it's easy to drive at low speeds, don't underestimate it's ferocious power. Have the rev needle flicking close to 6,000rpm and static objects disappear out of sight quicker than movie credits on super fast forward

It manages a near-impossible feat for any supercar

'How fast is it?' Get used to readying an answer to that question if you buy one.

McLaren 570GT: Will it fit in my garage? Price: £157,000 On sale: Now Engine: 3.8-litre twin turbo V8 petrol Gearbox: 7-speed dual clutch auto Drive: Rear wheel drive Maximum power: 562bhp Maximum torque: 443lbft Top speed: 204mph Acceleration 0-62mph: 3.4s Acceleration 0-124mph: 9.8s Braking 62-0mph: 33m Braking 124-0mph: 133m CO2 emissions: 249g/km Weight: 1.398kg

And trying to make the monumental speed of the 570GT sound plausible to someone who has never experienced something that accelerates quite so ferociously is a taxing process.

Put simply, once you do plant the throttle to the floor, static objects disappear out of sight quicker than movie credits on fast forward.

But that's not to say it feels unruly and extreme at all times - and that's down to some genius work by McLaren.

That's because - despite having a pair of turbos - the power doesn't come in lumps.

Instead, the increase in thrust is matched to the rise in revs, similar to that of a naturally aspirated (non turbocharged or supercharged) motor.

Send the needle up to 6,000rpm and it becomes - as you might expect - a warp-speed bullet with a boot.

But keep the engine ticking over lower down the range and it's a shockingly easy car to drive at pedestrian speeds, even through the centre of London during rush hour.

The slower steering makes it far more predictable navigating narrow side streets.

That glass rear storage panel and well proportioned wing mirrors even mean adequate all-round visibility.

And the smoothness of the throttle response and power delivery prevents any embarrassing lurches as you creep towards a set of traffic lights with a pavement audience desperately seeking flaws in your driving ability.

And it's not even that wide, for a car of this ilk. Even if the footprint is far larger than that of a Ford Fiesta supermini, it's no more difficult to usher through urban obstacles.

There aren't many £160k sports cars that can boast that. And considering many potential customers will be big-city slickers, being easy to drive through town shouldn't - though sometimes strangely is - be considered a flaw of a supercar.

The Cars and Motoring verdict

‹ Slide me › Every facet of the car, from the design and the manufacturing is of the highest quality. It's a long way from the shoddy workmanship sometimes seen in the British car industry during the late 70s and 80s

The extra weight, softer settings and added comfort will ultimately mean the 570GT won't match the much-adorned 570S if you pitted the pair head-to-head on track. But that's not where a GT car earns its stripes.

Is there enough performance to make it worthy of supercar status? I'm happy to report first hand that 562bhp and 204mph is more than enough for any mere mortal to deal with, especially as this will predominantly be used by owners on the road.

But what stands out most about the 570GT is the immense quality of the entire package. And that's some testament to the level that British car making has reached.

McLaren sold 3,340 cars in 2017 - more than any other year since the brand was officially created in 2010

Long gone are the days of late 1970s and 80s shoddy workmanship. Instead, every facet - from the design to the development, manufacturing and finish all conducted at the Woking headquarters - is completed at the highest level of expertise.

It's this incredible attention to detail that has helped McLaren to consistently set new sales records almost every year since the automotive branch hit the market in 2010, peaking at 3,340 cars in 2017.

And even if a not-so-favourable Brexit deal is agreed, the phenomenal standard of product is likely to keep McLaren demand as high as ever.

So if the 570GT is more than a sublime GT car - it's a benchmark of high-quality output for other British motor brands to aim for if they too want to survive the forthcoming changes to the economical landscape.

====== 2200 ========

'PAUL PESTER'S TSB TRIBULATIONS SHOW THAT THE OLD BANKS MUST PUT TECH GURUS AT THE TOP'

Should we have any sympathy for Paul Pester as he contemplates clearing his office at TSB HQ? Yes, and no. Yes because the ongoing IT fiasco was almost certainly not his fault. No because the buck must eventually stop at the top.

Yes because he was dealt a bit of a duff hand from his ultimate employers Sabadell Group, who appear to be largely responsible for the catastrophic migration of TSB customers’ accounts and records to their tech platform in April. No because he’ll walk away with a £1.7million pay-off.

Yes because it’s a lot to ask a chief executive to be fully conversant with the nuts and bolts of his bank’s systems.

Paul Pester has resigned as chief executive of TSB after some serious tech hiccups.

No because Mr Pester had previously held very senior management positions at Virgin Money, Santander and Lloyds TSB for nearly two decades in which the digital age transformed banking. You’d think he might have picked something up along the way.

TSB do at least have a ‘chief information officer’ on their board, whose duties appear to be roughly the same as a chief technology officer.

They also have a chief operations officer who joined the bank ‘to lead its build and development as a new multi-channel, challenger bank on the UK high street’. Although this duty is listed after the fact that she is ‘executive sponsor for gender diversity with a particular focus on building a sustainable female talent pipeline’.

You will not find a technology or systems director on any of the major banks’ boards. Not surprising perhaps, because the board is a tight team: usually just a chairman, chief executive, finance director, maybe a chief risk officer, and then a bunch of independent non-executive directors.

So no tech guru in the Cabinet then – what about among the junior ministers?

Go to the senior management teams, which typically number anything from eight to 15 bigwigs, and you will find a chief operations officer – only part of whose responsibilities are the systems and applications that the functioning of the retail bank actually relies upon. But that’s it.

This is the case at HSBC, RBS (which owns Natwest), Lloyds Banking Group (which owns Halifax) and Barclays – the four biggest retail banks in the UK, the old High Street names.

The one other really big name is Santander. This bank was built by its Spanish owner from the initial purchase of Abbey National more than 15 years ago, and then bulked out subsequently with Alliance & Leicester and Bradford & Bingley.

Not exactly a challenger bank then but a relatively new and fresh presence on the High Street, with a whiff of innovative spirit behind it - and by far the most popular bank among customers of the Big Five High Street presences (Big Seven if you break out Halifax and Natwest).

The jury is still out on the growing number of start-up digital banks , but the old lenders will have to change very quickly if they don’t want to lose their current younger customers.

And proof surely that it is possible to create a new, fully functioning bank fit for the digital age from legacy institutions. After some early teething problems in 2007, it has not suffered anything like the number or extent of glitches and outages that the others have.

Oh and look – they have a Technology & Operations Officer on the management board, as well as a Strategy & Projects Director.

You can’t help feeling there was a realisation early on at Santander that to make their UK operation work they would have to do some pretty smart technological coordination and integration. It seems Sabadell didn’t employ the same foresight – or if it did, it wasn't acted on very well.

The majority of current bank customers who are less than 40 years old and just about every single new customer who enters the market henceforth will demand a good digital banking experience - and leave if they don't get one.

The jury is still out on the growing number of start-up digital banks, but the old lenders will have to change very quickly if they don’t want to lose their customer base.

The new fintechs almost by definition were founded - and are led - by entrepreneurial people who understood the technology behind them.

Meanwhile, the pace of innovation at the old High Street banks has been glacially slow, in their product offering, in their systems and in their governance.

If they want to still have customers in 30 years’ time, they will have to introduce bosses for technology and systems to the highest levels of management.

====== 2201 ========

GLENN MCGRATH: WHEN JIMMY ANDERSON IS PAST ME HE WILL NEVER BE BEATEN

Jimmy Anderson deserves everything he gets, and even though he is an Englishman I will be delighted for him when he goes past my record and becomes the most prolific fast bowler in Test history.

Jimmy stands just six wickets away from my tally of 563 so it is only a matter of time now before he gets there — he should do it this week in the fourth Test at Southampton — and I will be getting in touch with him as soon as he does to say well done.

I have an awful lot of respect for Jimmy. Good luck to him. I believe once he goes past me he will never be beaten.

Jimmy Anderson can continue to break record and excite the cricketing world as usually does

Records are nice and I've been very proud to have taken more wickets than any fast bowler in Test history, but any high is there to be beaten and I will be equally proud of Jimmy when he goes past me because the fast bowlers' union has to stick together, whichever country we come from.

Anderson has been an incredible performer for such a long time and he has played far more Tests, 141, than any fast bowler in history, so his record speaks for itself.

Being a fast bowler is the toughest job in the game and people do not see the hard work off the field that goes into spending as much time at the top as Jimmy has. We put ourselves through a lot more pain than anyone else.

Anderson celebrates after dismissing India's Hardik Pandya in the third Test at Trent Bridge

So for Anderson to still be at the top of his game after 15 years in international cricket and with so many overs under his belt just shows his work ethic and his physical and mental strength.

Recovery and preparation are so important and you have to dig so deep and really want it to carry on going at the highest level as Jimmy is doing.

On his day when conditions are in his favour, and we saw one of those days at Lord's in the second Test against India, he is unplayable and to be at the very top at 36 with all those miles on the clock is incredible.

When the ball is swinging he's as good as anyone out there, but when it isn't he comes back towards the pack a little bit. That was certainly the case early in his career but he's developed his skills as he's gone on and become much more effective overseas.

Anderson at full flight can really do some damage and hasn't stopped just yet either

Stuart Broad and Anderson are two bowlers who have the ability to take wickets for England

When Jimmy plays at home with the Dukes ball he's second to none, but he has had to learn how to operate overseas with the Kookaburra ball that, to me, is not nearly as good to bowl with. It took him a while but he's done that now.

I've always said Jimmy was class, ever since I played against him in what became my last Test series in 2006-07. I noted how he swung the ball both ways conventionally, because it's a real art form. Not many have been able to do that. I can only really think of Wasim Akram, who is another great of the game, who could do that as skilfully.

Anderson just keeps on going. Look at the last Test at Trent Bridge. He bowled just one ball short of 26 overs in the first innings and then 22 in the second.

Once Jimmy goes past me it will be interesting to see where he wants to set the bar. With the nature of the game these days, and the amount of Twenty20 cricket, I believe no fast bowler will ever go past him.

I'm still very much hoping Test cricket will continue to be held in high regard by all young cricketers but will they be able to play the amount of games necessary and put in the effort required to go past Jimmy? I don't think so.

I hear Trevor Bayliss says Jimmy could play Test cricket until he's 40. Well, I'm not sure how keen he will be on that but there's no reason why he can't go on for some time yet if he still has that passion and drive.

He looks in fantastic shape, running around like a young fella, and hasn't put on any weight. He is clearly as hungry and strong as ever. The fact that Trevor would even suggest reaching 40 and still playing is a big compliment.

McGrath rated Anderson ever since they faced each other in the 2006-07 Ashes series

I always wondered if I would know the right time to retire. After that first Ashes Test in Brisbane in 2006 I had no intention of stopping. I was still focused and wanted a thousand international wickets. I was still driven.

Then I went home after that match, went to bed, woke up and it just wasn't important to me any more. It hit me just like that and I retired from Test cricket at the end of that series after 124 games. I knew it was time to hang the boots up.

Maybe that will happen with Jimmy but there's not much sign of it yet. And with the way he's going it will be up to him to decide how long he goes on for. I can't imagine any selector being daft enough to call time on him!

I was fortunate to go out on my terms while still at the top but a lot of people are not so lucky. When the time comes for Jimmy we will all be able to celebrate just how good he was because we won't see his like again.

So can Anderson get somewhere close to the three great spinners above me in the all-time wickets table? I reckon that once he's knocked my tally off the next goal will be 600 wickets and that would be an incredible feat.

Then you have Anil Kumble on 619 which is feasible but I'm not sure how close Jimmy can get to Shane Warne on 708 or Muttiah Muralitharan on 800. Even someone as great as Anderson will find that a bit of a struggle!

From one fast bowler to another, even though you're from England, Jimmy, I salute you. Good on ya mate. I hope there are many more wickets to come.

Glenn McGrath was talking to Sportsmail's Paul Newman

====== 2202 ========

RACHEL RICKARD STRAUS FOR THISISMONEY.CO.UK

There’s little in life more frenzied than booking a hotel online. You could be planning an off peak trip to the back end of nowhere and it seems there’d still be an inordinate number of people looking at the same hotel as you that very minute. The competition watchdog said today it's worried about 'pressure selling' and tactics to rush customers into making a booking decision. But while I find it annoying, I wonder whether it's exactly what I want out of a hotel booking website. ...read

====== 2203 ========

RACHEL RICKARD STRAUS: IT'S TIME TO MAXIMISE OUR IMPACT AS INVESTORS

We do so much as consumers to minimise our impact.

We might choose to eat free range to minimise the suffering of animals, or perhaps opt for the train instead of car to reduce the emissions of a trip, or we may decline a plastic straw to help cut out needless pollution.

The response to Attenborough’s Blue Planet alone shows just how aware we are of our impact and our willingness to keep it in check.

If we needed further proof, a survey from Legal and General Investment Management last week found that 92 per cent of 18-55 year olds say minimising their impact on the environment is important.

But curiously, so often this attitude doesn’t leech over into investing – an area in which we have an incalculable impact.

Packing a punch: As investors we have the opportunity to use our cash to do good things

While making conscientious decisions as consumers, and getting angry at social issues as citizens, as investors we often remain unengaged. Millions of us invest every month in companies that don’t necessarily align with our values.

We may be putting cash every month through our pensions or other savings into oil companies, arms makers or other sectors that some people are uncomfortable with, and blithely give our money to companies whether or not they treat their staff fairly, hand out unjustified bonuses to complacent bosses or own up to huge gender pay gaps.

We wield such power as investors to shape our world. As much as £63billion was invested last year in UK funds alone, according to the Investment Association. So imagine what would happen if we used our clout as a force for good.

As with other choices we make, there are ways of investing to reduce impact. There are funds, for example, that screen out any companies that invest in so-called sin stocks, often encompassing things like tobacco, arms or gambling.

We can ask questions of our pension providers – and then ask more if we don’t like the answers.

But joyfully, in investing the focus doesn’t have to be about reducing impact – it can be about maximising it.

Impact investing is gaining momentum – the idea of protecting and growing money while making a positive contribution to the world – not just not doing harm, but actually doing good.

So alongside recycling diligently, for example, you could invest in a fund that puts money into companies that making better compostable materials, or improving recycling facilities.

Or although you may have to drive, you could put money in a fund that invests in cleaner fuels or vehicles.

And we’ve only just begun. Just 15 per cent of investors have made an impact investment, according to a new survey from Barclays, but 56 per cent of investors say they are interested in exploring it further.

‘Investors own businesses; we can have much more influence than is currently understood,’ says Legal and General's Helena Morrissey. ‘We can write our own future.’

====== 2204 ========

JAMES CONEY FOR THE DAILY MAIL

While the figures being bandied around for the sale of Wembley are mind-boggling to the average fan, in the City this type of multi-million-pound transaction is commonplace. When you sell a big asset like Wembley you first call an investment bank. You get a property valuation and factor that into a business plan then put out the word to investors and see what bids come in. You can then accept the best offer. That's how well-run businesses get value for money. What you do not do is just say 'yes' when some moustache-twirling billionaire offers you £950million - particularly when the sum appears to be below market value. ...read

====== 2205 ========

HOW ENGLAND WON ME BACK: I’D GIVEN UP BUT I’VE LEARNED TO LOVE AGAIN

It was during England’s 2-0 defeat by Croatia in Zagreb in 2006 that I realised the world was laughing at our national team.

It was against Croatia again, one year later in the pouring rain at Wembley, that my faith in England disappeared altogether.

I’d been at both games. But supporting the national team had become a farce. I haven’t been to a match since.

England's loss to Croatia in 2007 was the nadir for football supporters of a certain generation

England lost to Croatia 2-0 the year before and the world was laughing at the national team

Now Wednesday’s World Cup semi-final offers a chance at redemption. I’m the estranged son being welcomed back by his family, suddenly remembering why home was so special after all.

After years of attending England matches, the two games against Croatia marked the moment we hit rock bottom.

Some may say that came in Rotterdam under Graham Taylor — but I was 17 during that 2-0 defeat by Holland in 1993 and still filled with boundless optimism.

I’ve written off six penalty shootout failures in major tournaments, the David Beckham and Wayne Rooney red cards, David Seaman’s flap at Ronaldinho’s cross, Maradona’s handball, Kevin Keegan’s missed header and the countless other injustices and injuries that had led to other England teams exiting tournaments as heroic failures.

Hope and enthusiasm had persisted. It was against Croatia where my national pride evaporated.

Paul Robinson missing the ball, leading to a Gary Neville own goal, showed just how far we fell

The game in Zagreb had been terrifying, but also a joke.

The Croat fans were passionate and intimidating. The concrete Communist-era stands swayed as the Croats stomped and chanted.

I seriously thought they’d collapse at any moment, instead it was lethargic England that crumbled.

The embarrassingly hilarious mis-kick by keeper Paul Robinson which resulted in a Gary Neville own goal confirmed it: we were a laughing stock.

Despite that, I continued to attend home internationals, though my enthusiasm was waning.

Then came that shattering 3-2 defeat at Wembley which meant England failed to qualify for Euro 2008. Scott Carson made his competitive debut and his early error spread nerves through the team.

England were toothless and brainless. Packed with some of the world’s top players, but not a team.

Then came that 3-2 defeat at Wembley which meant England failed to qualify for Euro 2008

Scott Carson made his competitive debut and his early error spread nerves through the team

Meanwhile, Croatia, this nation of four million with a line-up that boasted a handful of Premier League players, showed enviable technical ability, tactical nous and determination.

England seemed psychologically ill-equipped to win anything ever again.

‘A Wally with a Brolly’ the back page of Sportsmail called Steve McClaren the next day — a pitch-perfect headline that summed up the night.

Only, I was a wally too. We all were, for believing England would finally deliver on their potential. Like the family of an addict who keeps saying they’ll quit, I’d listened, believed and hoped that they’d finally come good.

After failing to qualify for Euro 2008, Steve McLaren was dubbed 'The Wally with a Brolly'

So I refused to believe any more hype. I’d been let down too many times already, and become the bore who’d seen it all before.

There have been bright sparks since 2007. Indeed we thrashed Croatia in qualifying for the next World Cup.

But for me the pathetic showings in the last two World Cups and European Championship were an inevitability that demonstrated how far we had fallen.

Now though, through brilliant tactics, honesty, passion and — shock horror — picking in-form players rather than a bunch of superstars, England have won me back.

We are wallies no more.

Dear England, I’m sorry I’ve been away so long. I’m coming home.

====== 2206 ========

REBECCA GOODMAN: ‘WHY IS VIRGIN CHARGING CUSTOMERS £240 TO LEAVE’

There's been some good news about broadband charges - or at least what I'm hoping will be good news.

Ofcom has said the exit fees of up to £240 Virgin Media charges customers if they move and it doesn't supply their new home, may be too high and may put people off switching.

While this is a small step - Ofcom hasn't actually said what Virgin needs to do to put the situation right - it's a move in the right direction and comes after months of campaigning from us for these fees to be refunded and abolished.

Ofcom launched a formal investigation last summer into the fairness of its terms and conditions around leaving a contract early

After being approached by scores of angry Virgin customers, last year we wrote several stories about the hefty fees being charged when they decided to move and Virgin wasn't available at their new home.

We presented a dossier of these reader accounts to both Virgin Media and Ofcom.

This was accompanied by evidence from a lawyer we approached who concluded that if a contract says a consumer has to pay a certain sum of money, whether or not the service provider can easily find another customer to replace them, it is potentially unfair.

Following this, Ofcom launched a formal investigation last summer into the fairness of Virgin's terms and conditions around leaving a contract early.

It has now said, in an update to the investigation, that it has ‘reasonable grounds to believe’ that Virgin contravened rules by setting and charging customers early termination fees which are too high. It also said Virgin failed to publish clear and up-to-date information around the early termination fees on its website.

Virgin now has to respond to the regulator and the final ruling will be published at the end of the summer.

As I said last year, I believe there is no other option but for Ofcom to tell Virgin it needs to refund all of those people who have had to pay an exit fee if they’ve moved home during a contract and Virgin wasn’t available at the new home.

This should not only be the fee, it should also include interest, which should reflect the highest amount they could have earned if the money was in a savings account.

While it's a big cost to the firm, £240 is a lot to a consumer in a time of squeezed incomes

The fee should also be abolished immediately for those moving house and wanting to take Virgin with them.

I also think the fee for exiting the contract - for whatever reason is given - needs to be lowered to something more reasonable. Sky, for example, charge customers a basic service fee for the remainder of their contract if they leave within the fixed-term period. In fact a universal system decided upon by Ofcom for all telecoms providers to calculate the exit fee would be the fairest way to go forward.

Not only is the fee unjust when it comes to moving – it’s not the customer’s fault Virgin doesn’t supply their new home – it’s outrageously high.

Virgin can't lose out on up to £240 every time someone leaves early, especially as there is a good chance whoever moves into the property next may sign up to it and therefore it doesn't really lose out much at all.

When someone leaves Virgin early and breaks the contract, they are charged a fee depending on how many months of their contract they have left.

This amount depends on how much they're currently paying, but the maximum amount is capped at £240.

Virgin runs on its own fibre network, separate to BT’s Openreach which all the other major providers use. It’s available in around 40 per cent of the UK so the chances of moving to a property where it’s not available are reasonably high.

Therefore it's unlikely to want to pay out compensation lightly, especially as there could be millions of people who have paid these fees in the past.

However, while it's a big cost to the firm, £240 is also a lot to a consumer. Virgin should also benefit in the long run as without these extortionate fees customers will be more likely to stay with it for longer or return next time it is available.

This is the only ruling I think Ofcom can reasonably take in order to rectify the shoddy behaviour which has been going on for far too long.

====== 2207 ========

MONEY MORALS: SHOULD I 'BRIBE’ MY KIDS TO DO THEIR CHORES WITH EXTRA POCKET MONEY?

Pocket money can play a huge part in teaching kids about the value of money and how to manage it.

Over three quarters of parents dish out cash to their kids each month, with British children receiving an average £18.36, while those in London get £26.70.

But many parents are using cash both to reward kids for good behaviour and withdrawing it to punish them when they step out of line, according to new research from Santander.

Pocket money: Should kids earn extra cash for good behaviour?

Going one step further, a fifth will make their kids pay a fine if they don’t complete their responsibilities around the house, according to the bank's poll of 502 parents.

As many as 15 per cent fine their kids for behaving badly in school. And on average, the Santander research suggests that parents hand over an extra £7.70 to kids for behaving well.

Boys paid more than girls from childhood It seems the gender pay gap starts as early as childhood, with boys rewarded with 33 per cent more than girls. Boys are paid an average £6.99 for completing jobs around the house compared to £4.67 for girls. Good behaviour in school earns boys an average £8.28, double the amount handed over to girls for the same reason, at £4.18.

Some parents also ‘tax’ their kids, asking for money from them to contribute to household costs, and as many as 42 per cent replied that deducting a proportion of pocket money was a good way to prepare young people for the real world.

What do you think?

With this in mind, we invite you to help solve a dilemma as part of our Money Morals series.

Should we 'bribe’ kids to do their chores with extra pocket money or is motivating them with cash a bad idea?

Leave your answer in the comments at the bottom of the article.

====== 2208 ========

HOW MUCH DOES THE PROPERTY OMBUDSMAN PAY OUT IN COMPENSATION?

It acts on behalf of consumers and can win back money they've lost during a dispute with their estate agent.

But the Property Ombudsman's average compensation may not be as much as aggrieved homeowners had been holding out for.

Head of the Property Ombudsman Katrine Sporle says: 'A serious case would be £1,000 compensation but it could go higher than that.

'But normally it would be £100 to £200 compensation plus any money that is lost.'

Average compensation from The Property Ombudsman is between £100 to £200 compensation, plus a payout covering the money that is lost

In addition to compensation, the Property Ombudsman also gives awards for financial loss as a direct result of an agent's action.

In an exclusive interview with MailOnline Property's, Mrs Sporle claimed that £1.3million was paid out in money lost by consumers last year.

With around '4,000 complex cases' last year, the award to cover money lost equates to around £325 per payout on average based on open cases. This figure increases if the average is based on the number of closed cases, reaching £532 for sales and £625 for lettings.

While not be sniffed at, a few hundred quid is perhaps not the redress that many consumers are hoping for if they feel they had lost out on thousands of pounds due to what they felt was a error by their estate or lettings agent.

And the time spent sending dozens of emails back and forth and filling out complaint forms mean that it could be less than worth your while financially raising the issue with the Property Ombudsman.

So why should you?

The Property Ombudsman said £1.3million was paid out in money lost by consumers last year

With 90 officers and 50 adjudicators at the Property Ombudsman, Mrs Sporle claims it applies what is 'fair and reasonable' and 'puts consumers back to where they were before they lost out, plus compensation'.

'We aim for an early resolution,' she insists.

Official figures show four awards of more than £9,999 against estate agents last year and nine against letting agents.

In addition there were five awards of between £4,999 and £9,999 on the sales side and 21 on the lettings side last year.

The Property Ombudsman received 23,841 enquiries in 2017. However, it could be argued that there is a flaw.

The Property Ombudsman is funded through fees from its members - the very people that consumers are complaining about: lettings and estate agents.

However, Mrs Sporle insisted decisions are always independent.

She said: 'The Property Ombudsman Service provides fair, free and independent advice to protect consumers against poor behaviour from agents and to put things right when things go wrong.

'We were set up 27 years ago when it was recognised that consumers needed a place to go when they had exhausted an organisation's internal complaint's process, but wanted an alternative to avoid the expense and time taken by going to court.'

She added: 'We are funded by the industry but our decision making is absolutely independent and we always base our decision on the evidence that is provided to us by both parties.

'Our role is much broader than only putting things right when things go wrong; more importantly we work closely with the industry to raise standards to try and avoid the problems arising for consumers in the first place.'

====== 2209 ========

HOW LAURA SHANNON IS HELPING REDRAW THE ISA LANDSCAPE

For all the attractions of Isas, the regime currently resembles a jumble sale of nest eggs. Basically, it is all a bit of a mess and in desperate need of a makeover.

That is why I have been heavily involved in a project to look at ways in which Isas can be given a new lick of paint.

The result is 'Time for Change', a report put together by a group of professionals, MPs and yours truly on behalf of the Association of Accounting Technicians.

Many Isas: In recent years, there have been a number of new types of tax-free offering launched

HOW ISAS BECAME COMPLICATED

In recent years politicians have tweaked the rules to make them more flexible.

For example, cash-based Isas were given equal status to investment Isas, so savers could transfer money between the two in either direction.

Previously funds could only travel a one-way street from cash Isas to stocks and shares. The annual allowance was also raised significantly to £20,000 a year.

Isas are popular and widely understood, which may explain why Government is keen to sew an Isa badge to any new scheme it dreams up.

So now we have Isas covering homebuying, retirement saving and investing in British innovation – but the politicians are not content. Another Isa is proposed to cover later life care costs.

It is up to you to work out how many Isas you are allowed, which ones you can pay into without affecting other accounts and the limitations for each. It is tiring and confusion reigns.

Increasing complexity is linear to more consumers switching off.

As the report I have helped influence concludes: 'The current Isa regime is not fit for purpose and simplification is essential.'

TIME FOR CHANGE

I was a late joiner to the Isa working group put together by the Association of Accounting Technicians.

This was a result of a ten-month stint singing about the wheels of a bus going round and round to my baby Orlagh.

Incidentally, I managed to find just enough time in between verses to open a Junior Isa for her.

Minutes from the first meeting of the group included proposals to scrap, save or replace the various Isas.

They looked as confusing as the current Isa landscape. There was also a suggestion of scrapping Isas altogether and starting with a blank canvas.

All this radical re-imagining of long-term savings was born out of frustration with how the picture looks today.

Why we need to make Isas better Read This is Money editor Simon Lambert's call for an overhaul of Isas, why he believes the current system is bad for customers and businesses and what should be done. > Time for a radical Isa change

In the second meeting, at Portcullis House in Westminster, the Isa fog suddenly lifted and a simple solution emerged.

Why not just let everyone have one umbrella Isa under which they could shelter whatever they wanted – savings and investments.

Our straightforward solution is as follows. Ditch multiple Isas and have one allowance that can be used from cradle to grave.

Scrap the Help to Buy Isa – but not the scheme itself. Government could easily continue to award savers a tax-free savings bonus on money put aside for a deposit on a home – without having to attach it to the Isa family.

Also bin the lifetime Isa which overlaps with both Help to Buy and pensions.

THE EVERYTHING ISA

Our solution revolves around an 'Everything' Isa – embracing existing cash, junior, stocks and shares and Innovative Finance Isas.

It is similar to the idea of a lifetime Isa proposed in 2014 by Michael Johnson, a research fellow at think-tank the Centre for Policy Studies.

All holdings could be viewed via an online Isa dashboard. This single portal would allow people to more easily monitor their account – mirroring the forthcoming pensions dashboard which will show state, personal and workplace pensions all in one place.

Our group proposes a lifetime Isa limit of £1million – the equivalent of today's annual £20,000 allowance for 50 years.

This limit would only apply to money paid in, so interest and any profit from investments would be allowed to exceed this cap.

The account would be established from the moment a baby's birth is registered, though as is the case now it would not be accessible until age 18.

What you need to know about Isas It’s not long before the door slams shut on your chance to use this year’s Isa allowance. So, listen to our special Isa podcast – with a comfortable (almost) three weeks to spare before the 5 April tax year-end. We tackle the basics and have tips for those who are experienced Isa savers or investors. We also look at why investing is the best way to get inflation-beating returns over the long-term, how savers can eke some precious extra interest from accounts, and why an Isa is worth having. Press play to listen to the show above, or listen (and please subscribe if you like the podcast) at Apple Podcasts, Acast and Audioboom or visit our This is Money Podcast page.

====== 2210 ========

NUTRI-BABBLE: I'LL LEAVE DIY DNA TESTS TO GENEALOGY

At the end of January, I embarked on a voyage of DNA discovery aiming to improve my health and fitness, and took a test that promised to provide a bespoke diet and training regime based on my genes.

As I reported back then, DNA-based regimes have become something of a trend, claiming to be the latest and most medically advanced way to get into shape.

I opted for FitnessGenes (£129, fitnessgenes.com), which involved an at-home saliva test and a short questionnaire about my height, weight and activity levels.

Two weeks later, my results were available via their website: information about 48 of my genes; a daily diet plan and a seven-day exercise programme.

DNA-based fitness regimes have become a trendy, 'medically advanced' way of getting in shape

The recommendation

All health and lifestyle advice is based on my genetic make-up, they say, with attention given to specific genes responsible for traits such as overeating, fat formation and lactose intolerance.

The advice is very specific: according to my DNA, I need to consume 1,417 calories a day: 178 grams of carbohydrates, 57 grams of protein and 52 grams of fat.

Despite the fact that I am seven-and-a-half stone, which at 5ft 4in gives me a (slightly underweight) BMI of 17.5, my recommended daily intake is 500 calories below that considered sufficient for a moderately active, adult woman.

FitnessGenes say a calorie reduction is necessary because I have two copies of an FTO gene type which puts me at high risk of obesity.

My report also tells me I may be prone to ‘disinhibited’ – that means compulsive – eating.

They say I should follow a low-fat, high-protein diet and manage hunger by drinking lots of water and taking daily doses of glutamine (an amino acid) supplements.

As for fitness, my presentation of the PGC1A gene, responsible for aerobic capacity, means I would find high-intensity interval training especially beneficial.

If I were to follow the ‘bespoke’ recommendations, I’d indeed lose weight – about two pounds per week, according to NHS choices.

This would mean that within a month, I’d be severely underweight, increasing my risk of osteoporosis, fertility problems and chronic exhaustion.

The expert view

‘Your case is a classic example of why these tests don’t work,’ says geneticist and obesity expert Dr Giles Yeo.

Dr Yeo, who studies ‘fat genes’ at Cambridge University, says: ‘While your FTO expression is partially associated with increased obesity risk, its predictive value is slightly better than flipping a coin. And it’s obvious you’re not overweight.’

But these DNA tests are widely used by geneticists, so surely my results are worth something?

Dr Yeo says: ‘These tests are great for finding out about your genealogy – what percentage Ashkenazi Jew you might be, for example – but that’s about it.’

Dr Dan Reardon, founder and CEO of FitnessGenes, says: ‘The results reflect whichever goal you set, for example weight loss, hence the calorie deficit.

'BMI is a crude measure of health that doesn’t account for muscle or body-fat percentage. However, we will take your concerns on board and offer extra advice for people at the low weight end of the scale.’

The verdict

I might give the exercise bit a go (I didn’t need a DNA test to tell me that my aversion to the gym might need addressing).

But the ‘cutting-edge’ diet advice? I’ll give it a miss.

====== 2211 ========

LAURA WHITCOMBE: BEWARE BOGUS TAX REFUND EMAILS AND TEXTS

If you've just paid your self-assessment tax bill, be vigilant if you receive an email informing you that you're due a refund.

Fraudsters are targeting taxpayers with spurious emails and text messages pretending to be from the government.

I received one such email over the weekend, telling me I was due a refund of £222.32.

Scroll down for video

Don't fall hook, line and sinker for a phishing scam disguised as a tax refund

The email came complete with a bogus 'HMRC Transaction Confirmation' number and a link claiming to be to the Government Gateway, which is used to access online government services.

Of course, I would just need to click on the bogus link with my 'credit/debit card ready' so the criminals at the other end of the link could scam my cards for as much money as possible.

Here's the email.

Bogus email: HMRC will never email you to inform you of a tax refund

At first glance, it may look fairly convincing - the spelling and grammar is pretty good, it contains plenty of official-looking reference numbers and the web links are at least in part quite similar to the genuine articles.

But it's very definitely a 'phishing' email - whereby the fraudster sender is trying to hook you into providing personal information. In this case, they're after my credit or debit card numbers.

Phishing happens by text message too. Earlier this month HMRC reported people are nine times more likely to fall for text message scams than other types such as email because they can appear more legitimate, with many texts displaying ‘HMRC’ as the sender, rather than a phone number.

It also said it had 'stopped thousands of taxpayers from receiving scam text messages, with 90 per cent of the most convincing texts now halted before they reach their phones'.

Here's an example message HMRC has published on its website as a warning.

Fake text: HMRC won't send you a text message about a tax refund either

To help you protect yourself and your bank account, there are several warning signs you should always look out for to determine whether such emails and texts are fakes.

WARNING SIGNS TO LOOK FOR

First of all, HMRC will NEVER email or text you to inform you of a tax refund (which is also refers to as a rebate). And it will NEVER ask for personal or payment information.

Here's the full list of what HMRC says it will never do or ask you for over email or by text:

notify you of a tax rebate

offer you a repayment

ask you to disclose personal information such as your full address, postcode, Unique Taxpayer Reference or details of your bank account

give a non HMRC personal email address to send a response to

ask for financial information such as specific figures or tax computations, unless you’ve given us prior consent and you’ve formally accepted the risks

have attachments, unless you’ve given prior consent and you’ve formally accepted the risks

provide a link to a secure log in page or a form asking for information - we’ll ask you to log on to your online account to check for information instead.

Next, make sure you carefully scrutinise the sender's email address.

HMRC says: 'Look out for a sender’s email address that is similar to, but not the same as, HMRC’s email addresses. Fraudsters often have email accounts with HMRC or revenue names in them (such as "refunds@hmrc.org.uk"). These email addresses are used to mislead you.

'However be aware, fraudsters can falsify (spoof) the "from" address to look like a legitimate HMRC address (for example "@hmrc.gov.uk").

'If you’re not 100 per cent sure that the message has come from us, don’t open it. If you do open the email and you’re in doubt don’t click on any links or downloads.'

This is in case they contain malware - software with a virus that can read personal information on your computer – or destroy it. The bug is often activated by users inadvertently opening an attachment or clicking on an email link.

And it's not just emails and texts about tax refunds you need to be vigilant towards.

A spokesman for Action Fraud told This is Money: 'At this important time in the tax year when people will be claiming refunds, we are warning of fraudsters who contact victims claiming to be from HMRC to trick them into paying bogus debts and taxes.

'These criminals will contact victims in many ways, including spoof calls, voicemails and text messages. And in most cases they will ask for payments in iTunes giftcards.

'It is important that people spot the signs of this type of fraud to protect themselves.

'HMRC will never use text messages to inform about a tax rebate or penalty and will never ask for any payment in the form of iTunes vouchers.'

====== 2212 ========

CAN HAMMOND AND MAY FIX OUR BROKEN HOUSING MARKET?

According to those in the know, our Prime Minister and Chancellor are not on the best of terms at the moment.

One of the reasons postured is a fundamental deadlock on what to do about housing.

In a nutshell, apparently, Theresa May wants to borrow more to build more - £50billion to be precise. Philip Hammond wants to deregulate and let builders put houses on green belt land.

Remember pensioner bonds? What about a new national housing bond?

The compromise they'll inevitably come up with on 22 November - Budget day - will no doubt be simply, and disappointingly, more of the same. A little bit of money over here and a little bit less red tape there.

But here's a novel idea. Why do they need to compromise at all? Why not do both and do them big?

Hammond would argue money. There's not enough. But I disagree.

Remember pensioner bonds? What about a new national housing bond?

Britain's love of bricks and mortar needs no introduction. First-time buyers are screaming to get on the housing ladder, buy-to-let bashing abounds and yet landlords continue to hoover up properties to rent.

Stamp duty be damned, everyone wants a piece of the action.

Over the past five years or so, an entirely new industry has sprung up to try to offer that action to those who can't afford to buy a whole house themselves.

Peer-to-peer lending and property crowdfunding in the UK is now a multi, multi-million-pound business.

It's possible to invest as little as £50 into part of a loan to a property developer or landlord through sites such as LendInvest or Landbay.

For £500, it's even possible to buy an equity stake in a company that owns property developments in the UK through crowdfunders such as Homegrown.

What precisely is stopping the government from getting in on the action?

It's already halfway there with its equity loans on Help to Buy.

Pensioner bonds were a huge success when they were launched back in 2015 through NS&I because they promised a better rate of return than was available on the high street, with the added security that the government was backing them.

Savings rates today are pathetic. Not one account beats inflation at just 3 per cent.

This is a miserable situation for savers and especially for pensioners.

On the flipside of rock-bottom rates comes the boon that it's cheap to borrow, and that's true for the government as well as the rest of us.

Rather than borrowing through the issuance of yet more gilts, which Hammond is reportedly loathe to do, why shouldn't the government create a national housing bond and kill two birds with one stone?

Peer-to-peer lenders offer investors returns of anything between 2.5 per cent and 15 per cent annually.

A 10-year savings vehicle linked to the returns on offer from property backed by government? It's a no-brainer for investors - individual and institutional alike.

It would also provide much needed funds to pump into building more affordable housing.

Pensioners happy. First-time buyers happy.

Head to head: Theresa May wants to borrow more to build more while Philip Hammond wants to deregulate and let builders put houses on green belt land

Now, I've heard the arguments that more money isn't the answer. But it is a big part of the answer. Land is the other part and on this, Hammond is right.

It's a deeply unpopular thing to say, but there are areas of the country where we need to build on the green belt.

The reason is jobs. There's no point building 10,000 homes in Land's End if there aren't 20,000 jobs there.

London and the South East are already jam-packed full of people, but it's where the jobs are, and frankly, the infrastructure just isn't up to the job of getting people into the city to work every morning as it is.

Either we build bigger roads, more high speed railways and get 4G and fibre optic broadband working everywhere - faster - or we admit we need to build out and up in London and other major cities.

Once we've faced this fact, funding is needed to get it done.

Property-backed bonds are nothing new and there's already demonstrable demand for them.

Property-backed bonds are nothing new and there's already demonstrable demand for them

Just this week the Golden Lane Housing Retail Charity Bond closed early having raised £10million in two days, offering savers an interest rate of 3.9 per cent a year for a term of ten years.

The proceeds from this bond will be used to buy and adapt much needed, high-quality housing across the country for people with a learning disability.

It wouldn't require much thought to structure a bond similar to this to fund a massive privately funded but public sector co-ordinated building project.

Builders would back it.

Brian Berry, who heads up the Federation of Master Builders, went on record this week saying: 'If the government wants to solve the housing crisis, it must address the access to finance issue that local housebuilders continue to face.'

Well, bam. A national housing bond would take the pressure off the banks to lend to builders.

While we're at it, why not roll out a national apprenticeship scheme in the building and associated trades to get more young people into work and restock the decimated bricklaying, electrician and plumbing industries with workers?

This government is finally trying to put its money where its mouth is on housing - for what feels like the first time in three decades.

Perhaps it's worth thinking a bit outside the box rather than continuing to fall back on old hat approaches that haven't worked before and are unlikely to work now.

====== 2213 ========

BREXIT CAN’T CURE THESE SELF-MADE ILLS, SAYS SIMON WATKINS

The 21st Century has so far been quite a ride. From the dotcom bubble and crash, to the financial meltdown, austerity, a Eurozone crisis and Brexit.

The financial meltdown of 2007-2008 was in part a result of the dotcom crash and the policy responses to it, and then a precursor to the crisis and policy mistakes that followed.

History is on my mind because this will be my final column as City Editor of The Mail on Sunday and I am reflecting on my years at this paper reporting on financial affairs.

'Austerity has hampered rather than helped economic recovery and reform', says Simon Watkins

The financial crisis was most definitely the watershed. But what is concerning is that, while much has been done to cleanse the global financial system of its excesses and to try to make banks less risky, there has been a serious failure to rebalance our economy.

The policy of austerity was a blunt mistake. It was pursued not just by the Coalition Government here in the UK, but by many governments. It was a policy that has hampered rather than helped economic recovery and reform.

The belief that the main objective of Government after the crisis should be to balance their books as soon as possible was mistaken.

It should instead have been to stimulate productive growth, through public investment which in turn would have stimulated private investment.

A faster recovery, higher output and therefore higher tax revenues for government would have done far more to reduce the public spending deficit than austerity ever has.

That was not the path taken. Instead what recovery there has been has come overwhelmingly from consumer spending and much of that through consumer borrowing. Business investment has remained weak.

The belief that the main objective of Government after the crisis should be to balance their books as soon as possible was mistaken

The economy is fractured and fragile. We may have record levels of employment, but a huge proportion of the new jobs created since the crisis are part-time, short-term or insecure. Average pay has failed to keep pace with prices.

This type of employment and the understandable reluctance of many businesses to invest in expansion, technology and new thinking go a long way to explaining our productivity crisis. More of us are working, but for less money in real terms and we are producing less per hour than comparable economies.

In the last couple of years there has been a widening realisation in many countries that what has been prescribed has not worked.

Finding a way forward is a huge challenge, but of one thing I am certain, the correct answer is not Trump-style trade wars and it is not Brexit.

====== 2214 ========

JON REES: WHO PAYS THE BIGGEST PRICE FOR INFLATION?

Prices have risen since the referendum on Brexit last year and as we report below there is more to come with package holidays set to cost us all more, too.

The fall in the value of sterling is key. The day after the referendum, it plunged and inflation has risen sharply ever since as we pay more for imported goods.

Last June, it was 0.8 per cent and last month it was 2.6 per cent with Bank of England governor Mark Carney saying the ‘big picture’ for inflation remains the same despite a slight fall last month.

Prices have risen since the referendum on Brexit last year and as we report below there is more to come with package holidays set to cost us all more, too

But inflation is not the same for everyone and looking at how it affects different groups is key to navigating the currents driving political events.

Stephen Clarke of the Resolution Foundation think-tank, chaired by former Tory Cabinet Minister David Willetts, has published an analysis on this topic.

‘Lower income households spend proportionately more on housing, food and drinks and have therefore experienced higher inflation since the turn of the year. The poorest 10 per cent of households experienced inflation of 2 per cent, by contrast the richest 10 per cent of households experienced inflation of 1.8 per cent,’ wrote Clarke.

He also noted that: ‘Between the middle of 2013 and mid-2014 inflation fell from 2.9 to 1.9 per cent. However, over that period the poorest fifth of households only saw their inflation rate fall from 3.1 to 2.3 per cent.’

These differences might not sound much but when every penny counts, they hurt.

They also account, perhaps, for what happened in the General Election, when the Tories with their long - held mantra of ‘We’re all in it together’ got a shock.

There have even been suggestions that some Tory MPs privately concede that Jeremy Corbyn has a point – that privatisation, for example, has simply made a few people rich while the rest of us pay more for a worse service.

The BBC has form when it comes to overpaying – not on-air talent, but its own executives. Former director general Mark Thompson paid £25 million to 150 outgoing senior executives – millions more than their contracts entitled them to.

I always admired one of them, Roly Keating, who went on to run the British Library and was the only one to give back his payment ‘as a matter of principle’ because he felt it was wrong to accept something which could not be shown to have been properly authorised. Perhaps today’s overpaid ‘talent’ might wish to emulate Mr Keating’s example on the grounds of sheer excess.

====== 2215 ========

FOOD START-UPS BATTLE OUT IN VIRGIN STARTUP’S COMPETITION

Nick Coleman, co-founder of flavoured pork scratchings brand The Snaffling Pig Co, and spicy Indian tea brand Tuk Tuk Chai, founded by husband and wife Rupesh and Alexandra Thomas, have been named among the semi-finalists of Virgin StartUp’s Foodpreneur 2017 competition.

The Snaffling Pig, based in Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, and founded in late 2014 by friends on a £500 bet, last year won £70,000 in backing from Nick Jenkins, founder of personalised greetings card company Moonpig, on BBC2’s Dragons’ Den.

The brand has crackling varieties that include fennel and maple, and ham and Colman’s Mustard.

GAMBLE: Nick Coleman, far left, founded The Snaffling Pig as a bet

Tuk Tuk Chai was founded in 2015 by the Thomases after they were unable to find in the UK the spiced tea they fell in love with on a trip to India.

Alongside six other semi-finalists, the two firms will open pop-up shops in a shopping centre for a week from June 30 as part of the competition.

Other finalists include Dan Pawson of salmon skin crisp business Seachips and Ryan Panchoo of gluten-free doughnut brand Borough 22.

The winner will have the chance to run their business in a flagship shopping centre for six weeks.

====== 2216 ========

ROAMING MAY NOW BE 'FREE' BUT YOU CAN STILL GET CAUGHT OUT

Phone users are being warned that a new crackdown on roaming charges in Europe could land them with higher bills.

The European Commission has just introduced a new law that caps roaming charges – applied when phone users abroad on business or holiday surf the internet, use social media, stream music or watch films.

The rules aim to ensure customers previously landed with unexpected bills totalling hundreds of pounds now pay nothing extra or just a few pounds more.

Amy Smith was hit with an unexpected £76 roaming bill by mobile provider EE two years ago

Mobile providers such as Vodafone and EE must ensure that customers’ bundles of data, minutes and texts are used before they start to be charged extra while in Europe.

But critics fear many mobile users will not realise that countries such as Switzerland, Turkey – and possibly even Britain when we leave the European Union in 2019 – are not included in the new arrangements.

Providers may also exploit the confusion and lure customers into expensive deals that include paying for ‘free’ roaming they do not need.

Amy Smith, who runs theatre company Legs Akimbo, says: ‘The changes to roaming charges are confusing and many people will get a nasty shock thinking they will pay less – only to be landed with an unexpected hefty bill.’

The 32-year-old, from Dalston, East London, says: ‘I follow a simple rule when going abroad. I switch off the roaming facility on my phone settings at the airport and only turn it on again upon my return.

‘I have learnt the hard way after being stung with nasty bills in the past. I prefer to get access to the internet on holiday using free wi-fi at internet cafes, train stations or hotels.’

Amy was hit with an unexpected £76 roaming bill by mobile provider EE two years ago when she thought she had paid a one-off £9 on top of her £35-a-month contract to include the extra roaming. She was later refunded the bill after complaining.

Turn-off: If you switch off your data roaming you won't be hit with any unexpected fees

The new European Commission rules reduce the maximum amount a phone network provider can charge for roaming from €50 (£44) per gigabyte to €7.70 (£6.80). The rate will fall over the next five years to €2.50 (£2.20).

The £6.80-a-gigabyte rate applies if you go beyond an existing allowance – or do not have one. A gigabyte is enough to allow a phone user to stream videos for an hour.

The bill for roaming outside of Europe will rise from August when value added tax – charged at 20 per cent – is applied to the normal network charge rates.

The most expensive countries for roaming include South Africa and Canada, both of which can charge up to £8 per megabyte (£8,000 a gigabyte) for data use.

A Neil Diamond fan spent £2,600 downloading a 326-megabyte album on holiday three years ago. Operator Orange later cut her bill to £400.

Ernest Doku, technology expert at comparison website uSwitch, warns: ‘Providers have been rapped on the knuckles by these new laws for overcharging but are pushing ‘roam like at home’ sales literature as if it was their idea. They will still seek to sell you unnecessary extras.’

The commission has also cut the maximum charge rate for making phone calls and texting. The price of calls made in Europe has now been capped at 3.2 cents (3p) a minute from the previous 5.5 cents (5p). The cost of sending a text has been halved from 2 cents (2p) to 1 cent (1p).

====== 2217 ========

HOW BRITAIN'S BIGGEST SHOPS ARE POCKETING YOUR DELIVERY FEE REFUNDS ON UNWANTED ITEMS AND MAKING UP TO £4.1BN

Britain’s biggest shops are unfairly keeping millions of pounds in home delivery charges when customers return unwanted items.

Online stores including Asos, Boohoo and Topshop routinely pocket the postage and packaging costs - often called delivery fees or charges - when customers return goods.

A Money Mail investigation reveals that these online retailers could be breaking a little-known consumer law.

Loophole? Britain’s biggest shops are unfairly keeping millions of pounds in home delivery charges when customers return unwanted items

According to the Consumer Contracts Regulations, introduced in 2014, customers who return items should get a refund for the price of the goods and the standard postage costs they paid for home delivery.

Lawyers say the original delivery fee should be handed back automatically as part of any refund if the items are returned within a set period. Yet our research found many shops hold on to the cash - typically around £3 per delivery - unless you ask for it.

Often your rights are buried in the smallprint on retailers’ websites. Then customers are made to jump through hoops to get the money they’re owed, such as filling in extra forms or making phone calls.

According to figures from retail experts Mintel, around one in five people will do some Christmas shopping online this year. It’s good news for retailers as online shopping is cheaper for them, cutting the cost of staffing, lighting and heating High Street stores.

But four in ten items of clothing bought online are now sent back, according to accountancy firm KPMG, and one in ten electrical items. This is partly due to a new trend of ordering several items to try - then returning ones you don’t want.

Many shoppers will also be returning planned gifts after having second thoughts. For big shops, many of which offer free returns, that means a lot of time and money wasted on packaging and posting.

HOW TO CLAIM YOUR CASH Check if the retailer automatically refunds delivery costs.

If it does, you just need to send your items back within 14 days.

If it doesn’t, it may have a form online you can fill in. You may need to call customer service for one. If the shop refuses, write to complain, quoting the Consumer Contracts Regulations 2013.

As a last resort, take your complaint to Trading Standards. Call Citizens Advice for guidance on 03454 04 05 06.

The press office for online clothes shop Asos, which made £1.4 billion in sales in the past financial year, says it does refund its £3 postage charge if a shopper asks. But when Money Mail contacted its customer services, an email came back saying the fees were a ‘non-refundable cost’ and made no mention of the law.

Boohoo, which took revenues of £127 million in the six months to August, says customers must ask for the £3.99 standard delivery fee.

Lingerie store Bravissimo’s says customers only get back the £3.95 for standard postage if they call or email first.

Topshop, owned by Sir Philip Green’s Arcadia Group, does not automatically refund original postage costs under its 14-day postal returns policy.

When you send something back, Topshop pays the return postage costs. But it does not, as standard, return the £4 home delivery fee it charged when you originally bought the item.

Customers can demand this £4 back if they fill in a form. However, Topshop told Money Mail that if you do this, it will no longer cover the cost of sending the goods back. This means you’re unlikely to save money overall.

House of Fraser’s terms and conditions stated it will refund customers’ postage in vouchers — but the department store said this was incorrect and that customers would get a full refund in the same way they paid. M&S and John Lewis say they refund postage costs without quibble.

All the retailers declined to reveal what proportion of shoppers who return items get their original delivery fees back.

Running returns: Four in ten items of clothing bought online are now sent back, according to accountancy firm KPMG, and one in ten electrical items

Experts say most shoppers fail to claim because they are unaware of their rights or do not have time. In the UK, some 1.38 billion items were returned last year, says consultancy Clear Returns.

It means shops could be sitting on £4.1 billion of postage fees. Carys Murphy, solicitor at law firm Slater and Gordon, says: ‘The onus should be on online retailers to refund the original delivery charge once they are in receipt of the returned goods.

‘Forcing a customer to fill in a separate form or make a call in order to get payment is not reflected in the regulations or in government guidance. Quite frankly, this appears to be an attempt by online retailers to justify avoiding paying consumers money they are entitled to.’

The Consumer Contracts Regulations 2014 state that if you return items bought over the phone or internet within 14 days of receiving them, you should receive a full refund. There does not have to be anything wrong with the goods: it’s enough simply to have changed your mind.

The rules state that as well as a refund for the item, customers should get back their original, standard delivery costs if they return the whole order at once.

Experts say most shoppers fail to claim because they are unaware of their rights or do not have time

Shops are not obliged to refund the extra you might have paid for one-day or express delivery.

Steph Barnett, 51, from St Albans, has claimed back around £100 over the past year by battling some of Britain’s biggest online retailers for refunds of her postage fees. She has successfully fought Boohoo, Asos, Very.co.uk and Pretty Little Thing for refunds ranging from £1 to £3.95.

The telesales worker says: ‘Shops must be sitting on millions and millions of pounds of customers’ cash. They are already saving so much money by encouraging us to shop online. Online shopping should be a pleasurable experience, not fighting for your money back.’

The Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, which oversees the rules, says: ‘The Consumer Contracts Regulations apply regardless of whether or not a consumer has filled in a form.

‘If businesses fail to comply with the rules, the consumer can claim a breach of the contract, and trading standards can apply for a court order requiring compliance.’ A Topshop spokesman says: ‘As Topshop offers free delivery on orders over £50, some three-quarters of customers do not pay for the original delivery.’

An Asos spokesman says: ‘The overwhelming majority of Asos orders have free delivery.

‘But we are also happy, of course, to refund the original cost of delivery if applicable.’

A Boohoo spokesman says: ‘Customer satisfaction is our utmost priority and Boohoo regrets that the customer had to ask for the refund.’

A Very.co.uk spokesman said it was fully compliant with the rules. Bravissimo declined to comment and Pretty Little Thing could not be reached for comment.

====== 2218 ========

SHOULD WE BE WORRIED ABOUT 'INSTITUTIONALISATION' OF CROWDFUNDING AND PEER-TO-PEER

Crowdfunding and peer-to-peer are slowly becoming part of everyday personal finance parlance.

Small businesses and individuals are flocking to the crowd to get projects or enterprises funded.

But now big banks, investment funds and pension companies are trying to get involved in what is being called the 'institutionalisation' of the sector, so it all about to get too corporate?

The grown-up crowd: Financial companies are starting to enter the crowdfunding market, lessening its appeal

The UK online alternative finance sector grew by 84 per cent in 2015, facilitating £3.2 billion in investments, loans and donations, according to a report from the the Cambridge Centre for Alternative Finance at the University of Cambridge and innovation charity Nesta.

However, this is actually a slower growth rate than in 2014, when lending grew by 161 per cent.

As crowdfunding and peer-to-peer become more established, it is likely to attract attention from mainstream financial providers.

The Cambridge report identifies the ‘institutionalisation’ of the sector.

There are now peer-to-peer investment trusts, as well as banks and pension funds with money invested in the platforms. And the recent Finovate conference in London consisted mainly of 'alt fi' companies pitching their services at banks rather than consumers.

But the risk is that as the sector becomes more mainstream, it may also become less attractive.

It’s like when your parents joined Facebook. The social media platform suddenly became less cool when your mum started liking your posts and sharing your baby pictures.

Facebook has seen a drop off in users in the 16 to 24 age group and has previously warned in a recent annual report that a lack of appeal to the younger generation was a key risk.

The same seems to be happening in crowdfunding and peer-to-peer.

But this isn’t an argument that old people will spoil the broth. Crowdfunding is for all ages and all types of people, that’s the beauty of it.

But with institutions getting involved it no longer has that jazzy alternative tag which in the long run could hit its popularity.

Financial technology conferences used to be full of computer nerds pushing their apps or groundbreaking software to consumers. Now they are pushing it straight to the banks.

The sector has already been placed under stricter regulation for borrowers and investors, which is a good thing, but now we are seeing more premium types of private-equity style crowdfunding aimed at higher net worth individuals with high minimum investments, essentially shutting out the little guy who wants to invest. That all sounds a bit familiar doesn’t it?

Toast to success: Craft beer maker BrewDog has built its business through Crowdfunding

If the industry was more weighted towards private equity, would we have seen such successful campaigns for easyProperty, JustPark or BrewDog, all of which value being able to let smaller investors get involved?

Wasn’t that the whole reason crowdfunding emerged, because banks where shutting out the smaller businesses and those with less to invest? But now some of the crowdfunding platforms are effectively shutting out the crowd.

Former Financial Services Authority chairman Lord Adair Turner recently joined the debate about the future of the sector and explained why the ‘old school’ should be staying away.

Speaking to the BBC, he said: ‘The losses which will emerge from peer-to-peer lending over the next five to 10 years will make the bankers look like lending geniuses.’

To be fair to him, there have been a number of peer-to-peer and crowdfunding failures recently. Claims management company Rebus, which raised £816,000 on Crowdcube last year, collapsed earlier this month. But the amounts pale into insignificance against bank bailouts.

The Peer2Peer Finance Association says his views fly in the face of evidence and overlook regulation of the sector and the due diligence done on firms.

There are of course extra risks in this sector due to a lack of Financial Services Compensation Scheme protection, but default rates tend to be low and you get better rates for taking more risk.

While the big boys from the banking world may be coming in and pushing up the cost of equity-based crowdfunding, reward and donation-based schemes are actually thriving on their own.

Donation-based crowdfunding – where no return is expected – grew the fastest among all alternative finance models in 2015, with a 507 per cent year-on-year growth rate, albeit with just £12 million distributed.

Reward-based crowdfunding – where returns don’t have to be financial – increased 62 per cent year-on-year to £42million.

This type of platform is becoming this popular, for example, there is one launching in April called Gifted Deposit where would-be first-time buyers can pitch for help to fund a mortgage deposit, without expecting anything financial in return.

One platform, Crowdfunder, has seen an increase in reward and donation-based projects.

Around 20 per cent of its projects have a social enterprise slant and there is no financial reward. It has raised almost £1million for social enterprises across the UK.

I have recently joined in and launched my own social enterprise reward-based crowdfunding campaign on Crowdfunder to fund speech therapy lessons for my dad that are no longer available on the NHS.

He suffers from Parkinson’s and we want to make an awareness-raising documentary charting his progress in the hope that he can overcome a speech impediment to speak at our sister’s wedding in August.

I have been relying on the support of friends and family and social media, and so far we are halfway towards our target.

I haven’t needed any big banks, fund managers, or men in suits. No-one wants a financial return. They just want to help.

====== 2219 ========

DOGBERRY: BARCLAYS BOSS JES STALEY CALLS £200M LOSS ON ITALIAN BANK BRANCHES A 'RE-SHAPING' OF COMPANY

Constable Dogberry in Shakespeare’s Much Ado About Nothing mangles every word he utters - and so do many business leaders.

We put the worst offenders in the dock for crimes against the English language.

THE ACCUSED: Jes Staley, chief executive of Barclays, speaking about the sale of 89 Italian bank branches.

WHAT HE SAID: ‘This transaction is further evidence of the re-shaping of Barclays Group to focus on our Core businesses.’

WHAT HE MEANT: ‘We’ve just booked a £200m loss because we couldn’t get out of Italian retail banking fast enough.’

VERDICT: Guilty

SENTENCE: Given that Barclays is rarely far away from a fresh multi-million pound fine, we’ll refrain from punishment for now.

====== 2220 ========

HOW TO AVOID A BANKING NIGHTMARE: YOUR RIGHTS, FRAUD AND HOW TO COMPLAIN

Bank accounts are something most of us rely on every day to receive wages, spend our hard-earned cash and pay bills.

So when something goes wrong it is crucial to get the problem fixed as soon as possible.

This is Money takes a look at the most common banking problems, the rights you are legally entitled to, and getting issues sorted out quickly to avoid upheaval.

Know your rights: Keep your bank in line by swatting up on your rights and what to do should things go wrong

What should I do if my bank has paid the wrong person?

All it takes is one wrong digit for your cash to end up in the wrong account when you're making a payment. In some cases, even transfers using the correct details can go astray by mistake.

When this happens it is important to notify your bank as soon as possible. Although providers can not automatically reverse a transaction as a general rule, the quicker mistakes like these are picked up the better.

Even if it was your mistake, banks must make a reasonable effort to recover the money - but it won't have to cover any losses if its efforts don't work.

On the other hand, if your bank made the mistake and sent money to the wrong account, it must refund the amount of the payment to your account, plus any charges or interest you pay as a result.

The process of tracing missing funds did tend to be slow in the past, but new voluntary guidelines mean that banks should act within two working days to claw back cash once an accountholder has raised the issue.

If there are difficulties in getting back the funds, the bank will investigate further and report the results back to the customer within 20 working days.

Although there is still no guarantee money will be returned, the new code will do much to speed up the process and keep consumers in the loop.

If you believe your bank is not fulfilling its responsibilities, you can make a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.

Can the bank refuse to honour a payment?

If a bank refuses to make a payment - either a direct debit or simple payment on your card - this can often leave the cardholder in a sticky spot.

But is your bank allowed to bounce a payment?

The simple answer is yes - but only under certain circumstances. For example:

There are not enough available funds in the account,

The agreed terms and conditions have been broken,

If the payment is made it would be unlawful.

If a bank has returned a payment it must let the customer know as soon as possible. It may also charge customers for issuing a payment that has bounced.

When can my bank charge me?

Is my money protected if the bank goes bust? Under the FSCS customers can claim up to £85,000 for lost funds

Unexpected bank charges can often be the straw that breaks the camel's back for accoutholders struggling with existing debts.

Most people will be aware that banks can make you pay interest on overdrafts, returned and paid item charges and account maintenance fees.

But fewer people realise that banks have the right to take money out of your account to pay off debts in another account, such as loans, credit card payments or other current accounts, with the same provider.

This right to 'set-off' does come with some conditions, though.

Banks must inform accountholders at least 14 days before any money is taken, leave enough cash in the account to meet 'priority debts and essential living expenses' and refund any money it takes that is needed for those expenses.

It must also refrain from taking any money intended for a particular purpose, such as healthcare, or if it is intended for a third party.

In all cases the bank has to inform customers after it has taken the money.

You can find out more about bank fees, charges and overdraft costs in This is Money's complete guide here.

What if my bank goes out of business?

If you have a savings or current account with a bank that goes under, you are entitled to up to £85,000 compensation to cover any losses.

Under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme, customers of any bank, building society or credit union that is regulated by the FCA can claim back a decent proportion of, if not all, the money they had sitting in the bank.

The £85,000 cap covers cash lost per individual for each banking institution - meaning those with several accounts with the same bank or banking group can only claim up to this amount.

Joint accounts are covered for up to £170,000.

T he FSCS should get in touch with any customers affected by a bank collapse, but they can also be contacted on the FSCS website, or by calling 0800 678 1100 or 020 7741 4100.

If you are owed more than £85,000 you may have to wait until the bank's assets have been divided up as part of the insolvency process to see if you will be able to get any further money back.

The majority of banks in the UK are regulated by the FCA. Check the full list on the FCA website.

Identity theft: One of the best ways to avoid fraud is to be vigilant and check your accounts for unusual transactions frequently.

I have been a victim of fraud, what should I do?

One of the best ways of preventing fraud is to make sure you keep any eye on your bank statement.

Online banking developments and apps helping you manage your account on-the-go mean this can be done at the touch of a button - so there really is no excuse to bury your head in the sand.

Scanning your statement frequently is not only a good way to keeping on top of spending, but it means any unusual or unrecognised transactions are picked up quickly.

TOP TIPS: HOW TO PREVENT FRAUD Make sure everything with your name, address or financial details is shredded before it is thrown away.

Never give your bank security or login details, full password or account numbers to anyone over the phone or on the internet, even if they say they are from your bank.

Comb through statements carefully to pick up any fraudulent transactions and notify your bank.

Contact the bank should any expected letters or statement not arrive.

Make sure all address changes are made should you move and make sure any mail is redirected.

Check your credit rating for unusual activity made in your name. For more information on how to dodge fraudsters and protect your account details read This is Money's guide.

The first thing to do if you suspect you have been a victim of fraud is to contact your bank. Most will have a dedicated line for reporting fraud.

Your bank must refund any money that has been taken from an account, unless it can prove you acted fraudulently, were grossly negligent or the transaction was legitimately authorised.

It also has to repay any fees or charges the unauthorised transaction caused.

Banks and building societies may also issue you with a new debit card or pin, and should be able to block any further fraudulent transactions.

Worried you have been a victim of fraud? Find out how to check your credit rating

What happens if I have been scammed?

Often, crafty scammers will claim to be from an official source, perhaps even from your bank.

If you have inadvertently given out your account details it is important to contact the bank directly to try to prevent any fraudulent transactions.

Most banks will refund any money that has been taken, but again it will depend on whether it can prove you were acting negligently.

What if they refuse?

If the bank refuses to refund the cash, the next step is to ask for a final letter of deadlock and make a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Services, which will make an impartial decision.

You can submit your claim online for free here. Make sure to include as much detail as possible and lay out how you want the issue resolved.

If the case is successful the bank will repay you. If not, you can still take a claim to court.

How can I complain?

If you want to complain to your about unfair fees you can follow the steps in our complete guide to reclaiming fees here.

But if you have a grumble with your bank and you think you have been poorly treated, making a complaint is fairly simple.

The first step for those wishing to complain is to contact the bank or building society's customer services department.

It is always a good idea to send a complaint in writing or via email so you have a record of your correspondence, but if you would prefer a more personal approach it could be worth following up with a quick call as well.

It is also worth remembering to keep a record of the date and time of the complaint, as well as the name of the customer service representative that received the complaint

You should then give the company a reasonable amount of time, typically 14 days, to respond.

If you are getting nowhere, it is worth warning the bank that you intend to take the complaint further - this could be taking the bank to court or taking your case to the Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS).

The FOS handles complaints about all major banking and building society complaints, as well as insurance, pensions, mortgages and investment issues - and it is free to use.

It will assess whether you have any grounds for a complaint and, if you do, it will request an explanation from the company. If it finds in the complainant's favour, the ombudsman will expect the organisation to provide a suitable remedy.

This could mean anything from putting right what went wrong and providing financial compensation, to a simple apology. All assistance is independent and free of charge.

The Ombudsman's decision is usually final, but if you disagree with it then you can complain to the Ombudsman's independent assessor.

====== 2221 ========

SAM DUNN: IT’S TIME TO CRACKDOWN ON LEASEHOLD AND HELP OWNERS

I did what many people do when they first hear about the concept of leasehold: I scratched my head in disbelief.

It was the late Nineties and an old university pal was buying his first flat - a down-at-heel box in South London - for about £85,000.

He'd qualified for a mortgage, but his lender had phoned him to ask about extending his lease.

Building for the future? Leaseholds are a lucrative way to stop people from buying their own home outright

The building society in question wasn't happy at having just 75 years or so left on it — and wanted him to cough up an extra £4,000 or so.

Worse, the landlord was being difficult and hardly ever bothered to pick up the phone. My friend wondered if I knew anyone who could help smooth things out.

I asked him what on earth he was talking about. As far as I knew, buying a home was a simple contract: you paid your money and got your goods.

I grew up in an old house in Gloucestershire and had absolutely no recollection of my parents ever being asked to pay money to a landlord. What kind of deal was he getting into, I asked — was it legit?

Only after he explained how it was the most common way to buy a flat, and that it was impossible to buy the freehold, did I get an inkling of the sheer complexity involved in leaseholds.

And my second reaction to the head-scratching is one I still hold: what a lucrative way to stop people from buying their own home outright.

Its history stretches all the way back to the Middle Ages when the first leasehold estates made an appearance.

Powerful feudal families caught on to the idea of keeping hold of their hard fought for land (literally) while trying to generate cash from it.

Enter leasing. It allowed families far, far down in the nation's social classes to work and make a living on the land for set periods.

Meanwhile, they paid for this 'right' to do so - the lease - by giving food and certain services to the owners.

That this concept has endured through the centuries is testament to the power and wealth of landowners.

Today, the appeal of home ownership lies in its name. Buy a property and the freehold grants you the right to do whatever you like (within reason, of course).

Sure, you'll have to deal with maintenance, repairs, difficult neighbours and all the other headaches of ownership - but it's yours. By comparison, leasehold property sells buyers short at every step.

You could even argue that it doesn't make you a homeowner at all. Paying a ground rent to a landlord effectively makes you a tenant.

If you live in a flat, you can be asked to pay for maintenance costs - and see annual rents rise by more than the rate of inflation.

Thanks to the Leasehold and Common Reform Act 2002, more buyers can at least apply to buy their home from a landlord.

But as Ruth Lythe reveals on pages 36 and 49, this can be a fraught process.

It isn't cheap, it's not easy to work out if you're being ripped off and dealing with absent landlords and unhelpful managing agents can be extremely stressful.

Over the past few years, campaign groups have sprung up to try to fight for better rights for leaseholders.

They include Leasehold Knowledge Partnership, the Campaign Against Retirement Leasehold Exploitation and - more radically - the Campaign for the Abolition of Residential Leasehold.

But our postbag continues to overflow with letters from leaseholders telling of terrible struggles with indifferent landlords.

Incredibly, many new homes today are still being built in this way.

In May, we revealed how thousands of houses - many of which are being targeted at first-time buyers - are being sold as leasehold by property firms.

And the numbers are rising, too.

Investment companies are driving huge demand for these types of homes as they have seen it as a way to make a profit from the annual rents the buyers are made to pay.

With so much at stake, I'd argue it's time for a major review of leaseholds and their long-term impact on households.

There simply isn't enough protection in place for leaseholders, despite the sterling work of the Leasehold Advisory Service.

Given the heady mix of property ownership, house prices and matters of wealth involved, perhaps the Government would like to take up the cudgels.

You can ask for a non-contactless card

Yesterday, the maximum spend on contactless cards jumped to £30 from £20.

Though these cards - where you tap your plastic on a reader rather than bash in a PIN - have rocketed in popularity, there are concerns that determined scammers can swipe your card's deals simply by standing next to you in a shop queue.

Consumer group Which? recently warned that data from contactless cards could be easily stolen by determined fraudsters.

Though experts warn that the chances of it happening are very small, you don't have to have a contactless card if you would prefer not to.

While banks and building societies do send out contactless debit cards with current accounts as standard, you can just pop into a branch or call customer services.

Explain that you'd rather stick to a card without the tap-and-go technology and they'll send you a new older version.

Banks have told us they will co-operate, so if you do have any trouble, please let me know.

Beware the shopping credit temptations

From one bit of plastic with a warning to another - but this time the alert is on cost.

Most people understand that store cards are to be handled very delicately.

Huge upfront discounts or 'money off if you buy today!' work only if you clear the debt immediately.

Otherwise, monstrous interest rates of 29.9 per cent will guarantee you're not the one getting the great deal.

But it's all too easy to allow your resolve to pay it off every month weaken - and let a monthly minimum repayment kick in instead. So here's a timely reminder of why you shouldn't.

Number crunching by analyst Moneyfacts shows that a £450 washing machine could cost you almost £1,200 if you make only the minimum repayments.

====== 2222 ========

ED MONK: DO LANDLORDS REALLY HAVE A TAX ADVANTAGE? YES AND NO - WILL IT BE REMOVED? NO CHANCE

Blood letting: Will landlords have to give up valuable tax breaks?

After shrinking in the financial crisis, the share of the housing market taken up by buy-to-let is again approaching a record level.

Buy-to-let accounted for nearly 20 per cent of all UK mortgages by early 2008 before falling to less than 10 per cent by late 2009. The share was back to 12 per cent in the first part of last year but climbed to 18 per cent in March, according to the Council of Mortgage Lenders.

For many people, this is a problem. Given our inability to build enough new homes they despair that an increasing share of the ones we have are being bought by landlords rather than young people.

It's led to calls for a perceived tax advantage held by buy-to-letters - their ability to write off their mortgage interest costs against the tax they pay on rental income - to be removed.

I say 'perceived' because not everyone agrees there is an advantage. That's because, in another important way, landlords pay more than the rest of us.

They pay Capital Gains Tax, often 28 per cent, on the increase in the value of the properties they own. Owner-occupiers pay nothing.

Given that the majority of returns made by landlords come from growing house prices rather than rents, a higher rate of CGT certainly hurts them.

As Robert Joyce, a senior research economist at the Institute for Fiscal Studies, explained: 'The tax system actually tends to favour owner-occupation over buy-to-let, for two big reasons:

'a) There is no capital gains tax on primary residences, but buy-to-letters do pay capital gains tax.

'b) Buy-to-letters pay tax on the rental income that they get from their tenants; owner-occupiers pay no tax on the effective rental income they get in light of the fact that they are their own landlord.'

I suppose whether you agree with this depends on your point of view. Viewed from a high level and over a long period of time, as economists are fond of doing, the overall advantage may still lie with owner-occupiers.

Others, though, can see that this advantage isn't really worth anything if you can't buy a home in the first place to benefit from capital gains. Landlords' advantage on mortgage interest, albeit smaller overall, makes it harder for first-timers to get at their advantage on CGT further down the line.

I've written before that what's needed is a consensus about what we want the housing market in the UK to do. Are we bothered about falling rates of home ownership, or not? Would our leaders prefer a house is owner-occupied rather than rented out, or are they agnostic?

Poll Should buy-to-let landlords lose their mortgage interest tax relief? Yes No Should buy-to-let landlords lose their mortgage interest tax relief? Yes 1913 votes

No 2809 votes Now share your opinion







Only when it establishes proper answers to these questions can the Government ensure the system works to help get the outcome it wants.

Whatever it were to decide, though, there will be no sudden removal of landlords' tax breaks.

Why? The answer is one of practicality rather than principle and revealed in a series of exchanges between Governor of the Bank of England Mark Carney and Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne over the past year.

A year ago the Chancellor asked the Financial Policy Committee, the Bank's body in charge of keeping an eye on big threats to the economy, to recommend ways to reduce the risk posed by the property market.

In his response, Mr Carney requested that the Bank be given powers to tell lenders to limit mortgages in some key respects.

It had already recommended that lenders grant no more than 15 per cent of their new mortgages to those borrowing more than 4.5 times their income. Now it wanted to formalise these powers for the future and, crucially, it wanted a similar power over buy-to-let lending.

Specifically, it wanted to be able to limit the Interest Coverage Ratio on buy-to-let loans. This is a percentage that shows the level of the rent versus the interest payments on the loan.

For example, some banks require a ratio of 125 per cent before they'll lend, so the rent must be at least 125 per cent of the interest repayments.

While the Chancellor was happy to grant formal powers for owner-occupier loans, he was less convinced about the need to limit buy-to-let. Why the Treasury was happy to allow controls for owner-occupier loans but not buy-to-let is not clear.

It said it would do its own work to establish the need for controls, with work delayed until after the election.

Unconvinced: The Bank requested formal powers to instruct Buy-to-let lenders, but George Osborne and the Treasury have resisted.

It's just possible to detect the Governor's disappointment, dare I say annoyance, at this in a letter to the Chancellor from March this year. You can read it here.

'The Committee will continue to make evidence-based arguments for any future Recommendations to HM Treasury to grant it further powers of Direction', he wrote, 'as you note it did for the leverage ratio and housing market tools in 2014.'

BUY-TO-LET MORTGAGE CALCULATOR Work out your monthly payments Mortgage amount: £ Interest rate: % Duration: years Mortgage type: Interest only Repayment ::: Calculate ::: Monthly payment:

The Bank is clearly convinced of the need for powers to curb buy-to-let lending (although this is not the same as saying it wants to use those powers now).

In making its case the Bank has explained that financial crises tend to be preceded and made worse by house price booms, and that buy-to-let 'amplifies' the effect.

'Any increase in BTL lending in an upswing will add further pressure to house prices, which is likely to prompt owner-occupiers to take on even larger loans, thereby increasing overall risks to financial stability', it has said.

To back its claims, the Bank points to American studies that found those US states with a larger and increasing share of transactions by investors saw a bigger boom and bust in house prices.

The point of all this is that the Interest Coverage Ratio the Bank wants to be able to influence is directly affected by the tax relief a landlord gets.

Removing the tax relief on mortgage interest reduces the money they have to pay their lender and a landlord that just meets, say, a 125 per cent requirement with the help of tax relief will fail to meet it if the relief is removed. My colleague Simon Lambert has explained the effect of the change here.

Given the Bank of England has identified the potential need for a limit to ensure buy-to-let lending remains safe, it would be incredible if it then sanctioned a change that suddenly meant many landlords fell short of this level and had to sell up in large numbers. That's exactly the instability the Bank wants to avoid.

This is not to say the current position is satisfactory. It cannot be a good thing that changes that would potentially improve fairness in the system can't happen because the property market is effectively to big to fail.

====== 2223 ========

ALISON KENNEDY INTERVIEW: STANDARD LIFE'S QUIET SCOT MAKING A BIG NOISE OVER PAY

ALISON KENNEDY INTERVIEW: Standard Life Investment's quiet Scot making a big noise over pay

Alison Kennedy caused a stir when she stood up at Barclays’ annual general meeting in April and announced Standard Life would vote to reject its pay policy.



Speaking in front of hundreds of Barclays shareholders at London’s Royal Festival Hall, Kennedy lambasted the bank for hiking bonuses despite a sharp drop in profits and a dismal year for its investment arm.



The criticism from the softly spoken Scot rankled with Barclays chairman Sir David Walker, who chastised her for making the announcement publicly. For big companies are not used to being turned on in public by other blue chip firms.



Intervention: Alison Kennedy locked horns with Barclays earlier this year after refusing to back its remuneration report

Kennedy’s intervention was an all-too-rare example of a blue chip investor raising their head above the parapet and using their clout to stick up for shareholders – in this case Barclays investors fed up of the bank’s spluttering performance and its decision to dish out more in bonuses than in dividends.

It also raised the profile of the unglamorous – but crucial – world of corporate governance.



Kennedy is governance and stewardship director at Standard Life Investments, which runs £195billion for savers around the world. Her job is to interview directors of companies which Standard Life invests in and gauge whether they are performing well, behaving appropriately – and whether they are paying their staff more than they deserve.

Kennedy, who joined Standard Life a decade ago after a spell as a fund manager, appears a little bemused by the attention her very public spat with Barclays received and believes more institutional investors should be prepared to follow suit.



‘I think it does surprise us a little that there aren’t more people that do that. Although it does take a little bit of work and time. Taking a day out when absolutely snowed under with voting is difficult.’

Alison and her team have about 1,500 company annual general meetings across the world to prepare for and vote on. As well as deciding whether to back firms’ bonuses, she plays an instrumental role in deciding whether to re-elect board directors and support other key decisions which affect shareholders.



She says: ‘Our policy is to engage with a company when we are considering voting against. If we feel there are issues and we believe it’s in our clients’ best interests we will attend and speak at the AGMs.



‘It’s not something we want to be doing regularly.



‘With Barclays we were looking at how profits were divided among employees and shareholders against the background of a bank that was not doing well – particularly in the investment bank. We were concerned that the bank’s reputation would be damaged by the decision that they took [on pay].’



On Walker’s criticism of her for raising Standard Life’s concerns about Barclays publicly, Kennedy acknowledges that it is often best to try to influence change ‘behind the scenes’. She attended only two AGMs this year, one being Barclays and the other the mining company Vedanta, which has come under fire for alleged human rights and environmental breaches as well as tax avoidance.



Kennedy says she did everything by the book with Barclays and that the intervention came only after a series of private conversations with the bank went unheeded.



She says diplomatically: ‘The AGM was pretty heated. I think he [Walker] was obviously under some pressure on that day, and maybe that contributed to his comments, but we were quite happy we had gone through our normal process.’



Kennedy says she has been encouraged by major reforms at Barclays introduced since the AGM, including efforts to reform its culture.



One company which could do with a stern word or two from Kennedy is Tesco, which Standard Life Investments has a small stake in.



The supermarket behemoth is reeling from the biggest scandal in its 95-year history, after admitting it overstated its profit forecasts by £250million. Several investigations have been launched into whether this was a deliberate attempt by the struggling retailer to cook the books.



Tesco demonstrated the shoddy corporate governance you might associate with a smaller, tin pot organisation – not one of the UK’s biggest blue chip companies. The money wrongly included in the accounts relates to fees due from big brands to ensure their products go on prominent shelves.



Kennedy says Standard Life Investments had some misgivings over the lack of retail experience of some senior executives at Tesco, including its chairman Sir Richard Broadbent – a former senior civil servant and former deputy chairman of Barclays.



She adds: ‘I think it was a real shock to everyone. A real surprise.



‘We obviously had noticed there was a lack of retail experience on the board. Clearly there is some debate in the press about the position of the chairman. I think when we get to the stage when there is a new chairman – having just appointed a CEO that is not a retailer [Unilever veteran David Lewis] – it would make sense that any new chairman probably should be a retailer.’ Tesco has since moved to address criticism about the experience of its board, hiring former Ikea boss Mikael Ohlsson and Richard Cousins of catering giant Compass as non executive directors.



Kennedy believes there are also questions about the auditors PwC, which has vetted Tesco’s books for more than 30 years. ‘There is another issue around the role of the auditors. PwC have been auditors since 1983, which is quite a long time.’



Referring to the fee arrangements with suppliers , she says: ‘Investors and brokers will want to know a lot more about these kind of arrangements going forward – not just with Tesco, but with all of the big retailers.’



On the lack of women in UK boardrooms, Kennedy believes that there should be more diversity but not by making ‘token’ appointments or introducing quotas.



She says she meets many female company secretaries but only around a third of board directors she meets are women.



‘We would like more diversity – more diversity of opinion and diversity of perspective. Women make decisions in a different way to men, and that’s important in a group.



‘But it’s not just about having more women.



‘If a company is very international do they have people that understand the culture they operate in?



It’s also about diversity of age. If it’s a company that is in the internet or media, the chances are you would want someone who is younger than 50 on that board.’



She adds: ‘We’re not really in favour of quotas, that’s not our stance, but we want to see that companies are setting themselves aspirational targets and we want to monitor their progress towards those targets.’



But the drive for more equality is not without risk, says Kennedy.



‘To be honest, we’ve seen one or two appointments that you think hmm, I’m not sure about that – that does look a bit token where there has been a woman appointed to a board. That is a concern because it’s really important that we get the right quality of people.’



When not grilling board directors, Kennedy is a keen golfer and hill walker. She has climbed an impressive 190 of the 284 Munros – mountains in Scotland over 3,000ft high.



‘It’s taken me about 30 years.’ she says. ‘I’m hoping I get through them by the time I’m 80.’



Few would bet against her achieving her goal.



÷ Dear reader, you may have noticed that the No vote at the recent Scottish referendum is conspicuous by its absence from this interview.



This may seem strange, as I am in Scotland carrying out an interview at an Edinburgh-based firm – which attracted headlines by loudly declaring its intention to move its headquarters south of the border in the event of a Yes vote.



====== 2224 ========

HALFORDS PUNCTURED BY BROKER DOWNGRADE FOR EUROPEAN RETAILERS

MARKET REPORT: Halfords punctured by broker downgrade for European retailers

After a recent strong run helped by interest in the Tour de France’s visit to Britain, some cautious broker comment caused the chain to come off for bicycle and car parts retailer Halfords.



In a cautious sector note, Barclays cut its rating for Halfords to underweight from equal-weight as part of a downgrade of European general retailers to negative from neutral, citing concerns over the impact of expected UK interest rate rises.



The broker said ‘tightening monetary policy in the UK will likely pressure the finances of UK households, forcing a reconsideration of spending habits after five years of near-zero interest rates’.



Halfords shares suffered from a broker downgrade for European retailers based on the prospect of higher rates.

Barclays pointed out that mid-cap Halfords has seen the strongest re-rating in the sector meaning investors expect a major earnings recovery that the broker doubts will be that strong.



That led the broker to reduce its earnings per share estimates for Halfords by around 9 per cent and cut its price target by 13 per cent to 400p. As a result, Halfords was a loser on the FTSE 250, down 1.5 per cent or 7.2p to 488.5p.



Home improvements retailer Kingfisher also suffered from the negative Barclays comment, with its target price reduced by the broker to 300p from 390p.



Aside from the interest rate concerns, Barclays highlighted the rise of the discounters as putting pressure on traditional retailers. Blue-chip Kingfisher fell 2.15p to 304.6p with Nomura also cutting its target price.



The overall picture across the Footsie was one of consolidation after a positive week with investors happier to sit on their hands ahead of the UK bank holiday weekend.



The FTSE 100 index closed 2.41 points lower at 6,775.25 reflecting a volatile early showing by US stocks as Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen sat on the fence in a keynote speech on monetary policy. She emphasised uncertainty over the state of the US labour market and therefore gave little away as to the likelihood of an early hike.



Market heavyweight Vodafone, up 3.25p at 205.85p, provided underlying support for the blue-chip index, as takeover chatter continued to surround the mobile phones group. Market rumours have suggested that US firm AT&T could still make a move despite having shot down speculation about an offer in January.

Takeover chatter continues to surround the UK telecoms giant.

Revived takeover speculation also boosted the share price of AstraZeneca, up another 6.5p to 4,418p, on talk that US pharma giant Pfizer could be mulling a new offer after its failed £69billion bid earlier this year.



Also a gainer, Ashtead Group added 6p at 950p as the equipment rental firm benefited from a price target upgrade by broker Berenberg to 1,145p from 1,110p.



Repeating its ‘buy’ rating on the stock, Berenberg said the investment case for Ashtead is based on an expected recovery in US non-residential construction, and the market share gains forecast through organic expansion and bolt-on merger and acquisition, as well as a positive outlook for margins.



Airlines were among the worst blue-chip performers, with easyJet falling 5p to 1,319p on concerns over the possible impact on air travel from a volcanic eruption in Iceland. An eruption just 65 miles from the Icelandic capital Rekjavik in 2010 disrupted flights for more than 10million people.



The mid-cap FTSE 250 index notched up gains, ending 42.51 points higher at 15,881.08, with platinum and precious metals miner Lonmin a leading performer after being added to Goldman Sachs’ influential Conviction Buy list. Lonmin shares gained 4.55p at 217.5p.



Among the small caps, North American-focused oil explorer Magnolia Petroleum surged nearly 60 per cent higher, up 0.55p to 1.60p after it revealed net production has increased by two thirds since April as a result of new wells coming online with a higher level of participation.



Tidal-power specialist Atlantis Resources was another good performer boosted by news it had secured an important funding packing for its flagship Meygen project in Scotland’s Pentland Firth, which is set to become the largest tidal energy operation in the world. Atlantis shares gained 5.5p to 49.5p.



But moving in the opposite direction, California and Kansas-focused oil explorer Sefton Resources shed nearly a fifth of its value, down 0.025p to 0.14p as it warned that reduced investment is having a negative impact on its operations, with cash from production being drained by commitments to its banking facilities. The company is currently without any executive management.



And Wildhorse Energy dropped 19 per cent or 0.075p to 0.325p after the alternative fuels company cancelled a rights issue saying that it plans to conduct a review and possible restructuring of its board, operations and strategy.



====== 2225 ========

SAVERS HANDED NEW TAX-EFFICIENT WAY TO GET AT THEIR PENSION POTS AS OFFICIALS FLESH OUT UPCOMING RETIREMENT FREEDOMS

Savers handed new tax-efficient way to get at their pension pots as officials flesh out upcoming retirement freedoms

Savers have been given a new tax-efficient way to get at their retirement savings after more details on the Government's sweeping pension freedom reforms were published.

Draft guidance on the tax treatment of pensions from HM Revenue & Customs revealed how those with defined contribution - or money purchase - pensions will be able to leave their savings in their pension scheme but withdraw money as they wish, in order to take advantage of the pension reforms announced in this year's Budget.

Chancellor George Osborne had promised that those with DC pensions will, from 6 April, be able to access their savings and pay just their marginal rate of tax on the money they withdraw as an alternative to using the money to buy an annuity, the rates on which have dwindled.

Want to stay put? New option gives people a tax-efficient way to remain in their existing work pension scheme while they decide a longer-term plan

This option had already been available through drawdown pension products, but these had been effectively limited to wealthier pension savers. There remained a question as to how those with smaller pots would use the new flexibility.



The new option revealed in the draft guidance allows these retirees to leave their savings within their scheme but withdraw lumps sums in a tax efficient way. People get to leave their retirement savings invested - or ‘uncrystallised’ as the Treasury terms it.

Each lump sum you take will be 25 per cent tax-free, reflecting the 25 per cent tax-free cash that is available on all pension funds, and 75 per cent taxed at your marginal rate - whichever rate your total taxable income, including the taxable chunk of your pension withdrawal, puts you into that year.



The new option announced by HMRC today is part of sweeping 'pension freedom' reforms aimed at giving people far greater decision-making power over their retirement savings and how to access their money, spend or invest it.

Other options are to buy an annuity, which provides you with a set income for life, or to get an income drawdown product.

And from April next year, you will also be given the freedom to take your whole retirement pot and do something else with it entirely.

The advantages and drawbacks of each approach will depend on your personal circumstances.



However, the new option announced by HMRC today will give people a tax-efficient way to just stick with their existing work pension while they decide a longer-term plan.

The Treasury's draft plans on pension drawdown and tax can be found here.

====== 2226 ========

TARA EVANS: UNEMPLOYED 18-YEAR-OLD APPLIES FOR £300 PAYDAY LOAN AND IS OFFERED £500 - IS THIS RESPONSIBLE LENDING?

Unemployed 18-year-old applies for £300 payday loan and is offered £500 - is this responsible lending?

Earli er this week This is Money revealed that Kerry Katona had been declared bankrupt for the second time in three years.

At the time the ex-popstar was the face of a payday loan company, Cash Lady. The firm had been embroiled in its own controversy when it had its TV advertising campaign, featuring Katona, banned because the regulators deemed that it encouraged debt to fund a celebrity lifestyle.



The former member of Atomic Kitten continued to advertise the payday loan firm until earlier this week.



You've got to be kitten me: Kerry Katona has been dropped as the face of payday loan company, Cash Lady, after being declared bankrupt for the second time.

On confirming that Katona had been made bankrupt, on her own petition, we contacted Cash Lady for a comment.



A spokesman told us that they were dropping Katona from their ads and her picture has since been removed from their website.

Earli er this year Katona wrote a blog for the Huffington Post w here she defended her choice to promote the short term lender given the controversy that the industry has faced in recent months.



In the piece she said: ‘CashLady.co.uk is ONLY designed for people who have a job which is why I agreed to do it.’



One This is Money reader, Zeke, contacted us to say that this wasn’t the case. He explained that, after seeing the ad, he had applied for a £300 loan through Cash Lady as an unemployed eighteen-year-old presuming that he’d be turned immediately down.



The result? They offered him a £500 loan. (See the screen grabs from hi s blog b elow.)

Apply please: A screengrab from the Cash Lady website that appeared on a This is Money readers blog after he applied for a loan.

Loan please: The page that Zeke was directed too when he applied for the loan.

Zeke said that he was unemployed but that he had a monthly income of £600. A loan of £500, designed to be repaid with interest within one month, would wipe out nearly all of this.



Zeke emailed us to question whether this was responsible lending. A great question. We put it to Cash Lady.



Despite the Cash Lady website seeming to offer Zeke a £500 loan, a spokesman said that ‘Cash Lady is a broker, not a lender’ and therefore 'would not have been involved in the decision making process as to whether or not he would be offered credit'.



Cash Lady added that if Zeke had continued the application then he would have been referred to a lender which offers guarantor loans, rather than a payday loan that is unsecured. It says this is responsible.



The spokesman continued: ‘The second set of screenshots (starting with "Zeke we can lend you £500") didn’t come from us. Our application form doesn’t ask for full debit card details, as we don’t handle any transactions.



Spam: Zeke set up a new email address to apply for the loan and was bombarded with emails from similar lenders

'We ask for their bank account details and to verify that they have a debit card, and that information gets sent to whichever lender provisionally accepts the application, if any do.’



'Once he applied with us, his application information went through to the list of lenders we work with, and FLM Quick provisionally accepted the application.



'He then would have been transferred through to them, and it would have been clear that he was being transferred to a third party. The application for a guarantor loan would have happened with them.’

But Zeke didn't understand that Cash Lady was a broker and not a lender, or that he was being transferred from Cash Lady to another company mid-way through his application.



I suspect a lot of the population would struggle to understand this difference.



Additionally, Zeke set up an email address to apply for the loan and over the next few days he was inundated with emails from similar lenders.

Payday lenders have faced much scrutiny over the past year. The Office of Fair Trading has referred the industry to the Competition Commission and the Financial Conduct Authority are set to take over regulation of the sector next April.



I think there is an important lesson here for the government and regulators – it’s not just the lenders that need tighter regulation, it’s brokers, just like Cash Lady.



====== 2227 ========

HIGH HOUSE PRICES MEAN BANK OF GRAN AND GRANDAD IS WORTH £1TRILLION

RICHARD DYSON: The house prices generation gap means the Bank of Gran and Grandad is good for £1trillion

The Bank of Mum and Dad is going bust, but the Bank of Gran and Grandad is good for nearly £1trillion. This, on the face of it, is what emerged from two sets of figures published last week.



The first report, from the Council of Mortgage Lenders, painted a grim picture of young homebuyers’ dependency on parental help to raise a deposit.



In 2006, before the financial crisis, two-thirds of first-time buyers managed their purchase without parental help, putting down an average of ten per cent.



Grandparents' help: The property alone owned by over-65s is worth £770billion, report says

Today the proportion of first-timers who don’t need to turn to the Bank of Mum and Dad has plunged to nearer one third, partly because banks require bigger deposits, typically 20 per cent of the property’s value. The number of these buyers has also crashed, from 400,000 in 2006 to less than 220,000 in 2012.



The Council’s report went on to suggest that parental support was now reaching its limits, as people in their 40s and 50s had their own financial needs – including paying off mortgages and building pensions.

The second report, from specialist lender Key Retirement Solutions, was a brighter snapshot of rising affluence among another group: property-owning pensioners. Almost five million pensioners own their homes outright.



The property alone owned by over-65s is worth £770billion – up by more than £1billion since January, thanks to the house-price recovery.



In a week when Labour sparked controversy by suggesting winter fuel payments for wealthy pensioners should be scrapped, these figures will be seized on by many as another sign of Britain’s growing inter-generational financial divide.

Investors about to get a better deal on fund charges thanks to Hargreaves Lansdowne's weight



A revolution is under way at the biggest investment broker Hargreaves Lansdown and its 470,000 customers will benefit. Most use Hargreaves to invest in funds run by household names such as Jupiter, Invesco or M&G.

Now, thanks to sweeping new rules, Hargreaves has written to these fund companies demanding they reduce their charges.



They have a few weeks to reply. Such is the influence of Hargreaves Lansdown, most recipients of the letters, which The Mail on Sunday has seen, will do as required.



Ultimately it should mean private investors pay less to invest and enjoy higher returns. The revolution has come about because the previous City watchdog, the Financial Services Authority, banned the payment of secret commissions between fund companies and brokers such as Hargreaves.



The MoS has been foremost in campaigning for this ban over many years and in the face of much resistance. The greatest opposition to our campaign came from Peter Hargreaves, the man who founded the broker firm that bears his name and who has made a fortune of more than £1billion through it.

A few years ago in one of several heated exchanges, he admitted to me that not only did his customers not know how much they were paying him, but many believed they were not paying at all. I found that shocking. It explained why there was scant competition: how could there be, if consumers had no idea what they paid?

It also explained why firms like his were so super-profitable. The situation has changed with the arrival of the new rules, and the firm insists it now discloses commissions. But several years ago, at the time of my dispute with Peter Hargreaves, the watchdog must have shared our view, because the slow process of forcing companies to disclose charges and commissions was set in motion.



The new rules are only just coming into effect. Peter Hargreaves’ implacable hostility to the regulations – he contested them every step of the way – now seems greedy as well as ill-judged. The status quo he bitterly sought to protect was not a system where private investors’ interests came first.

Instead, his interests were more closely aligned with the fund companies whose investments he promoted in return for cheques written behind closed doors.



Small investors, left in the dark, simply paid up, possibly believing they were getting an excellent deal. From now, they should do better.



The letter today on the desks of fund groups around the City and elsewhere, in which Hargreaves Lansdown (no longer managed by Peter Hargreaves) demands improved rates for its customers, is proof allegiances are shifting. Private investors’ interests are rightly to the fore.



====== 2228 ========

LISA BUCKINGHAM: EXAM TIME FOR THE PREDATORY PAYDAY GANG

LISA BUCKINGHAM: Time to take a long hard look at the predatory payday loan gang

Payday lender:Wonga admitted to MPs that up to 15 per cent of its customers do not repay their loans





The University of East London last week became the first such institution to outlaw payday loan firms from anywhere on its campus, amid increasing evidence that its students are taking desperate measures to get out of debt.



The ban is far reaching, including online and even stretching to refusing to stock magazines with advertisements from the payday lenders.



Students are, of course, not usually the finest examples of financial literacy.



But UEL’s deep concerns will resonate far more widely among those who deal with the increasing numbers in our society who are struggling with debt and have fallen prey to the apparent charms of a short-term fix offered by the payday gang.

The Office of Fair Trading is about to write to the 50 largest payday lenders to point out where it thinks they may be falling short of fair standards.



This is, however, likely to be far from a solution to the plague that is now gripping Britain.



The lenders argue that any ‘innovation’ tends to attract controversy in its early days. One executive involved in the sector who I met last week likened it to the early days of double- glazing sales when cowboys were rampant, concluding happily that nowadays no one would have any issues with buying double-glazing.



The sector also claims that it has a self-imposed cap on loans. Yes, the interest rates of up to 4,000 per cent are usurious, but if a borrower cannot repay after six months, interest is no longer rolled up.



Even if you do not compound the interest rate, that would still mean that someone who borrowed only £100 would be staring at a £2,000 liability.



And while the payday lenders claim to turn down about 90 per cent of loan applicants, Wonga –the best known – admitted to a select committee of MPs recently that up to 15 per cent of its customers do not repay their loans, though it claims it checks applicants.



There may be a very few people for whom an exorbitantly expensive short- term loan is an answer.

The problem is that most in this nascent industry have, conveniently, very little idea of the circumstances of people who are using their services.



Many, though, are people who are already struggling with credit card debt – not itself a cheap form of borrowing.



Britain has become a haven for many overseas companies who are finding that the interest rates they can charge in their home markets are capped.



The OFT appears a long way from suggesting a similar cap on loan rates, which make even the harshest of doorstep lenders look reasonable.



There is an argument for new ideas in consumer credit and our mainstream banks are hardly angels with their punitive rates for unauthorised overdrafts.



It is time for our politicians to look seriously at this predatory group of companies. The students at UEL are not the only ones who are being driven to the point of despair and need rescuing from the clutches of a morally dubious industry.

As savers abandon all hope: we could help them with an Isa break



If savers haven’t already abandoned all hope, then the words of Charlie Bean, Bank of England Deputy Governor, last week will make sure they do.



There is, he told MPs, absolutely no prospect of savers getting the chance of a decent rate of interest until the economy is in a better position.



Bean was too judicious, of course, to give any indication of when he expected that to be. But for savers it will be far too far away.



As we edge towards the next Election, with the reek of the Eastleigh humiliation fresh in the air, George Osborne will frantically want to do something to please in this month’s Budget.



The Chancellor has precious little room for manoeuvre and, as he made clear when Britain’s AAA rating was downgraded by Moody’s, he has no intention to splash the cash. Nor should he.



Osborne can, though, give hope to millions of savers – not by increasing the amount they earn on their savings but by upping the amount of cash they can put in an Isa, where the interest is tax-free.



It is a nonsense that savers can put only half their £11,280 tax-proof allowance into a cash Isa. Although share prices have been rising recently, not all savers want to be forced to put money into the stock market.



====== 2229 ========

A FINAL THIS IS MONEY FAREWELL: 3M READERS HELPED US CREATE A WEBSITE THAT'S MAKING A REAL DIFFERENCE

A final farewell: Three million readers helped us build up a website that's making a difference



Seven years ago, when I was made Editor of This is Money, things were going so nicely.



The property market, up just 2% that year, had paused for breath but the Bank of England duly obliged with a rate cut, to 4.5%, to help send it on its final, ill-fated charge.



Inflation was a whisker under the 2% target, allowing savers to make a reasonable return on the best Isa rate - of 5 per cent (offered by Halifax, for the record).



Even the stock market was playing ball, up 18% that year as it gathered pace in an exceptional four-year bull run (from 2003 to 2007).



The party was destined to end, as we repeatedly warned. But I wasn't the only doubter. Many This is Money regulars used our then new 'reader comments' facility to share their concerns about the debt boom, profligate Labour spending and much more besides.



Back then, the site's audience measured fewer than 300,000. Today's ABCe - the industry-wide count - puts it at more than three million with an average 145,000 dipping in each day, up 25% in the past year alone.



This increase is partly due to the dramatic surge in interest in all things financial. It also has a lot to do with the expertise of the many talented journalists I've had the privilege to work with.

Our campaigns have included dogged pursuit of ticket reselling rip-offs, exposing exorbitant bank charges and the mis-selling of payment protection insurance.



More recently we have fought to highlight the injustice faced by those reliant on income, as the measures deployed to tackle the financial crisis unfairly punish those who actually bothered to save.



And our recent investigation has exposed to the extent to which banks, seemingly unable to learn from their mistakes, are still pressuring staff to hard-sell products.



I'm also particularly proud of the way my team has responded to emails from desperate readers, wronged by financial services companies and fought their corner, often winning compensation.



Today, I leave you in the capable hands of those colleagues as I move on to a new opportunity at the Telegraph. So I thank you for reading, sharing your wisdom and for helping to create, in my humble opinion, Britain's best money website.



I wish you a very prosperous future.



@andrew_oxlade

====== 2230 ========

JACOB REES-MOGG IS DOWN TO HIS LAST £5MILLION AS HE COMPLAINS OF STRUGGLING TO MAKE ENDS MEET

Jacob Rees-Mogg needs to work on his ‘common touch’ skills. The high priest of Brexit, who led calls for Mrs May to be toppled last week, has complained that he is struggling to make ends meet. The multi-millionaire told the Sydney Morning Herald: ‘Nobody can afford to live in London. I’m not sure I can! I wish I were joking.’ Given Jacob’s property portfolio includes a £5 million townhouse in Westminster, Dog trusts he’ll be fine…

Jacob Rees-Mogg in Westminster, London this week as he made his views clear on Theresa May's draft Brexit agreement

Boris Johnson fuelled reports he’s limbering up for a tilt at the Tory leadership by bowling up to Labour’s Tom Watson and asking how he managed to shed six stone. ‘How did you lose it all?’ asked BoJo, who reputedly piled it on as Foreign Secretary because tighter security meant he couldn’t cycle to work. ‘Cut out refined sugars,’ said Tom. And get back on your bike, he could have added.

Sweet reconciliation for sugar-storm pair

Commons aide Caroline Edmondson, who was asked to buy sex toys for International Trade Minister Mark Garnier.

Peace has broken out between Tory MP Mark Garnier and the ex-aide he called ‘sugar t**s’. Caroline Edmondson, left, who complained that Mr Garnier had used the disparaging moniker in front of multiple witnesses – before sending her out to buy a sex toy – says the pair ended their near decade-long feud at a Commons reception for the British divers who led the rescue of boys trapped in caves in Thailand. ‘It made us realise that life is too short!’ she told Dog.

Hailing Theresa May, loyal Tory Minister Jake Berry saluted her EU accord as the ‘Cuprinol’ deal – ‘it should do what it says on the tin – transition Britain in an orderly way out of the EU’. Except the famous old slogan is used by woodstain maker Ronseal. Oops.

Screen idol anguish

Michael Portillo’s rubbishing of Mrs May’s Brexit deal as ‘worse than staying in the EU’ will have been particularly painful for Downing Street communications supremo Robbie Gibb. Back in his days as a Tory HQ staffer in the late 1990s, Gibb’s computer screen-saver was a picture of the then heir apparent for party modernisers… the blessed ‘Miguel’ himself.

Flamboyant Tory knight of the shire Desmond Swayne was ‘stopped and searched’ as he was about to enter the Commons. ‘I was in my running gear with a backpack and the policeman wanted to search it,’ he says without complaint. Did he find anything? ‘No. Thankfully, I wasn’t carrying what I sometimes do – a very sharp knife for my morning grapefruit.’

====== 2231 ========

RUTH SUNDERLAND: SIR NICK CLEGG WILL HAVE TO WORK HARD FOR THOSE SILICON VALLEY MILLIONS

Facebook is going to need all the skills of its newly-hired communications chief, former deputy prime minister Sir Nick Clegg, if it is to have any chance of averting a fresh round of outrage when it reveals its latest multi-billion dollar sales tomorrow.

The timing of its results, which Hargreaves Lansdown predicts will show profits of $5.8 billion over the space of just three months, is unfortunate for the digital giant.

Mark Zuckerberg, the 34-year-old billionaire founder, will announce the figures a day after Philip Hammond unveils his Budget.

Challenge: Facebook is going to need all the skills of its newly-hired communications chief Sir Nick Clegg

Coming so soon after the Chancellor gets to his feet cannot help but remind everyone just how little Facebook contributes to the UK’s coffers – a piffling £16m last year.

And the results land on the same day that senior Facebook executives, along with colleagues from Google and Microsoft, will be grilled in the House of Lords over questionable corporate behaviour. Peers are gearing up to attack the US operators for their dominance of the internet market and their attempts to shirk responsibility for offensive or dangerous content posted by users.

Which makes it interesting for Sir Nick Clegg, who, in his former guise as Lib Dem leader, would have been the first to demand that the US digital titans behave as responsible corporate citizens in the UK.

Clegg’s main selling point to Facebook is not, however, his standing in this country. Even his most ardent admirer would have to admit his star has waned since the run-up to the 2010 election when Gordon Brown and David Cameron vied to tell the electorate how much they agreed with Nick.

Zuckerberg is actually paying for Clegg’s specialist knowledge of the European Union at a time when one of Facebook’s biggest fears is a clampdown from Brussels.

Like Amazon and Twitter, it is a Janus corporation. It is hugely popular with millions of users, but has a dark side: the harmless pastime of posting pictures of puppies co-exists with far more sinister activities, unseen and unknown to innocent users.

In the spotlight: Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg

The company was this month fined a mere £500,000 over the Cambridge Analytica scandal, which revolved around the harvesting of up to 87m users’ data without their knowledge. That is the maximum fine the regulators could impose, even though to Zuckerberg, it is a laughably small amount that would take his company less than an hour to make in revenues.

But as Clegg and Zuckerberg both know, the penalties are only going to get bigger. Debacles like this one and last month’s huge hack of user accounts have taken a toll on the share price, which is down around 15 per cent in the past year.

Now at a turning point, at root Facebook’s problems come down to a fight for its soul: an existential struggle between social and corporate values. On one side is ‘friendship’, the original motive for the site, versus profit, a powerful driver once the founders realised the billions to be made.

Zuckerberg’s solution is to try to return to its social networking roots and to dial down the prominence of advertising.

In the long-term, that must be right, because alienating users would be killing the goose that lays the golden egg, though in the short-term it risks a hit to revenues.

It may not be much consolation to Brits in the week of a sober Budget, but Sir Nick Clegg will have to work hard for those Silicon Valley millions.

====== 2232 ========

LIZ JONES COLUMN FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

As more people arrive, and ooh and aah at the castle, it becomes clear the reason we’re here is to be able to say we were part of history; we were there. It’s not just another society knees-up, so many people – young and old – tell me: ‘The bride is the Queen’s granddaughter.’ ...read

====== 2233 ========

LIZ JONES BEGS THE ROYAL FAMILY... DON’T TURN INTO PART OF THE SHOWBIZ CIRCUS

AN ENGLISH ROSE: Princess Charlotte puts on a brave face and closes her eyes as a gust of wind threatens to blow away her flowers

It's 9am on a blustery Friday morning, and I’ve braved the phalanx of armed but very chatty police to stand, poised at a barrier, next to the statue of Queen Victoria outside Windsor Castle. I’d expected to be among, let’s face it, be-Union-Jacked fruitcakes and a few passing Japanese tourists for this, the wedding of a radiant but minor Royal.

I can’t help but laugh when the woman next to me, Sheryl Arredondo, who arrived last night from Michigan and is sporting Union Jack nail polish, tells me the presenters on ITV have been debating how to pronounce the bride’s name: ‘Is it EUgenee or EuJANEee?’

No one’s ever said it much, I tell her. I’m someone who has found it hard to distinguish Eugenie from her older sister, Beatrice.

‘When I told my co-workers I was coming over for the wedding, they had no idea who she was,’ Sheryl says. ‘Until I said that Fergie’s her mum.’ So why on earth has she travelled all this way? ‘I’m 66. This might be the last Royal Wedding I get the chance to see.’

As more people arrive, and ooh and aah at the castle, it becomes clear the reason we’re here is to be able to say we were part of history; we were there.

It’s not just another society knees-up, so many people – young and old – tell me: ‘The bride is the Queen’s granddaughter.’

Even if we don’t know everything about her, there’s huge affection washing around, keeping us warm: ‘Eugenie is one of the quieter ones,’ admit Julie and Malcolm, now expats in Sydney. ‘We miss all this,’ they add, taking in the pomp and the pageantry. I meet Alexis and Sol, both 20, here from the US. ‘I love the fact Eugenie has a job!’ says Alexis.

All eyes were on actress Demi Moore, left, and singer Robbie Williams and wife Ayda Field

As someone who is not just a little obsessed with celebrities, I keep brandishing my phone and pointing out to people in the crowd the latest star to have disembarked at the church. But, to my huge surprise, no one’s interested; not even 25-year-olds Lewis and Sydney, here on a date. They only have eyes for the Windsors. ‘I think Kate looks tired,’ says a mum with a screaming toddler in a pushchair.

As I bring up each famous face on my screen, my little group squints and grimaces. At Naomi Campbell: ‘Let’s hope no one p***es her off!’ At Cara Delevingne, who has turned up in top hat and tails: ‘Has no one told her, today isn’t all about you!’ At Ricky Martin, there’s a simple: ‘Why?’

The most opprobrium comes from Rav Singh, a 57-year-old former IT worker, currently caring for his dad. He thinks the Royals who court celebs are playing a dangerous game.

SO ADORABLE: The three-year-old waves and gestures to the crowd from the steps of the chapel after the Royal Wedding at Windsor on Friday

The Mail on Sunday's Liz Jones with Joseph Afrane at Windsor for the Royal Wedding

‘Look at David Beckham, getting out of that speeding ticket. If you’re photographed next to him, what does that say about you?’ I tell him Posh and Becks are a no-show, but that Jimmy Carr is here. ‘You see?’ he says. ‘Tax avoiders. They need to be careful. It looks like the Firm are fawning over famous people. They should stick to inviting European dignitaries, not models.’

I counter that the British Royal Family has always courted the famous. Diana was friends with Elton John and Gianni Versace. Several women give me an ‘off with her head’ stare. No one is allowed to utter a bad word about Di. ‘She was always much more famous than anyone else,’ I’m told. ‘Eugenie is in danger of being eclipsed.’

In fact, throughout the whole day, the only people I meet who are keen to glimpse James Blunt, say, or Robbie Williams – who turns up chewing gum! – is a group of horsey ladies, here rather noisily from the Cotswolds. ‘We went out to the farm shop where they were supposed to be uploading stars on to coaches, but we didn’t even see Ellie Goulding!’ Are they upset? ‘Nah! As long as we see Zara Phillips. We love her!’

We watch the ceremony on someone else’s phone, as mine has died. As Eugenie says her vows, ‘I’m shedding a few tears,’ says a 50-year-old former PR who has dealt with her share of selfish, unruly pop stars. ‘It was so romantic and traditional. So English, with those rosy cheeks.’

MISCHIEF: Prince George and his cousin Savannah enjoying themselves at Eugenie's wedding

Prince George reacts as he arrives with bridesmaids at St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle

As the ceremony draws to a close, everyone straightens and cranes for the moment the carriage containing the couple will flash past. Don’t we think Eugenie is making a bit too much fuss, I whisper to a woman from Wales.

‘Every girl dreams of a fuss. She’s spent her life being carer to her parents, she deserves today. I hope they will be happy.’ My goodness, this crowd is generous. What about the £2 million spent on the police? ‘It’s less than was spent on Trump!’

When at last the carriage passes the crowd, now four-deep but as bald as William’s head in places, I’m puzzled no great cheer goes up, just a weak titter.

‘That’s because we were all taking photos on our phones,’ says a misty-eyed lady.

Of course, the stars had been invited, and seemed thrilled, but they will have spent considerable time over the years grooming the young princes and princesses, slicking their own events with magisterial magic. They seem to think they are ‘better’ than the Royals, and by that I don’t just mean better looking.

In church, most stars’ eyes swivelled towards Demi Moore, not the Queen. Celebrities always do as they please, too (which I doubt is a luxury Meghan can now enjoy), thinking rules don’t apply to them, which is why some sneakily posted on Instagram from inside the church. Whatever happened to respect?

The other wedding that took place on Friday morning was one between celebrity and Royalty. It was a marriage of convenience, one guaranteed to reap the most coverage and viewers, but where will it lead?

It implies, with the positioning of the gum-smacking Robbie Williams and his wife so near the Queen, that the famous and the Royals are equal. That they belong to the same club. The one that digs up basements and annoys neighbours, lives in faux Georgian mansions, has affairs and runs out of money. This young batch of Royals (‘they are so good for PR,’ one 55-year-old woman proudly wearing a £5 Eugenie and Jack scarf tells me) have only just got the Firm back on track. Let’s not derail it now.

Even the choice of car to carry the couple from the reception – an Aston Martin made for the James Bond film Spectre – pays homage to fiction

The Royal Family are different, and if they’re not, then why are we paying for them? If Euge! and Jack are no better than Posh and Becks, why should we revere them and wave to them in glass carriages? We will turn into America, where money, not history or duty, rules.

I’m sure the Queen has famous friends, but I doubt they snort coke. I wonder, too, at Beatrice’s choice of reading, from The Great Gatsby. It’s a book about spoilt, rich, empty idiots who destroy everything and trample over everyone around them. That’s not the Royal Family. That’s Hollywood.

Even the choice of car to carry the couple from the reception – an Aston Martin made for the James Bond film Spectre – pays homage to fiction. There’s a danger the bona fide glamour of the Royals will be tarnished by this constant clamouring for the faux. They will become a chimera, as easy to erase as a Pixar cartoon.

Oh, and by the way, Williams was no longer chewing when he emerged after the ceremony. Can someone please check beneath the pews?

====== 2234 ========

RACHEL JOHNSON: THE DAY I LEARNED TO LIVE WITH MY WONKY NOSE AND WRINKLES

A boiling hot day earlier this summer and I was in a Harley Street waiting room, sweating in anxious panic.

'Rachel Johnson,' the receptionist at the clinic for 'deluxe skincare and aesthetics' at last called, and ushered me into a room where an ageless woman with chipmunk cheeks and a trout pout was sitting at a desk. She smiled at me like the Joker.

I don't think I even sat down. I fled. Cosmetic procedures, I concluded, were not for me.

But the fact that I went and shied away at the last minute means I get it.

I understand why women want to lift and fill and sculpt their faces and bodies, like Ingrid Tarrant, who wrote here last week about wanting a facelift and lipo on her knees after seeing herself on TV. (Knees? About the one part of my body that's holding up!)

Scroll down for video

Ingrid Tarrant wrote about wanting a facelift and lipo on her knees after seeing herself on TV

The pressure on women to look a certain way is intense, and it starts young.

A survey last week revealed a quarter of today's girls self-harm (compared to one in ten boys) and a lot of this is ascribed to anxiety about appearance.

'Worries about how they look are a big issue, especially for girls,' said Matthew Reed, chief executive of the Children's Society.

It's so much harder now to escape this pernicious pressure.

When I was young, there were healthy supermodels (as well as the usual skeletons) on the catwalk, but the difference between then and now is total.

The images of the impossible shape you wished you were didn't appear on a live feed on your phone or on your home page all day and all night, for you to compare your sorry self to.

You did your best to accept what your mother said: that nobody liked everything about themselves, and that we all came in different shapes and sizes.

But now that acceptance and embrace of the wonky, flawed, imperfect human condition has been forgotten, and a belief that everything can be fixed and improved has taken its place. And it is costing lives.

Last week a British woman died after a Brazilian butt-lift in Turkey went wrong.

Rachel Johnson says the pressure on women to look a certain way is intense, and it starts young. File photo

This has become a popular procedure as it siphons the fat from your waist and loins to help furnish you with a sticky-out apple-bottom booty, as worn by the Kardashian Klan.

Leah Cambridge was only 29 and 'unhappy' with her body after having three kids. She died after having three heart attacks on the operating table.

Figures suggest that one in 3,000 patients who undergo this treatment die when a fat embolism enters the bloodstream during the surgery, and is carried to their lungs.

How have we come to this: women risking their lives to conform to an entirely unnatural and genetically impossible notion of beauty?

The celebrities who have encouraged it have blood on their hands.

Leah Cambridge, 29, died after a Brazilian butt-lift surgery in Turkey went wrong

I find it outrageous, for example, that so many of the contestants on this year's Love Island admitted they availed themselves of cheap 'procedures' in Turkey (where a butt-lift costs about £3,000, as opposed to £10,000 in the UK) and elsewhere to pump, whiten, enhance themselves, and then advertised the extraordinary and freakish results to their impressionable mass young audience.

That's far more shocking, frankly, than the fact that a size 26 'body confidence' model and campaigner, Tess Holliday, is gracing the cover of October's Cosmo, driving fat-shamers into fury.

Calm down, dears. She is an organic, natural, big and beautiful woman. Her cover story is a cool two-fingers up to the twin cults of tyranny (youth and beauty) that can dominate – and destroy – lives.

Of course, being too fat is as unhealthy as being too thin.

But seeing that arresting cover, any female – fat or thin, young or old – can take comfort that not everyone has to look like Kate Moss/Kim Kardashian, or has to tootle off to Turkey to spend thousands on a plastic surgery safari in an attempt to achieve it.

I should admit at this point that I've contemplated reconstructive surgery myself. But this was only after I broke my nose for the second time.

The report from Barry Jones MS FRCS read that I have 'a septum deviated into the right airway and distortion of the nasal structure and a noticeable midvault prominence'. That's a polite way of saying hooked beak.

Back then, I was too scared to have a nose job. But when I mentioned to a TV colleague that I watched myself on screen in high-definition through splayed fingers, she tipped the best specialist for a… subtle refresh. That's how I came to be sitting in that clinic.

I bolted from the waiting room with frown lines and wrinkles still in place, as well as witchy nose, and I'm glad I did.

As I tell myself every year on my birthday (to stop myself blubbing with self-pity): You may well frighten the horses on and off screen, but you will never be again as young as you are today, so for goodness sake do try to enjoy it, woman.

Laura's worth fighting for

Brits abroad after drinking for eight hours straight on a lads' holiday – it was always going to kick off. Inevitable.

'We had a long debate about Brexit and this led to a conversation about Laura Kuenssberg,' explained a witness to the bar-room fisticuffs that followed.

One leading surgeon (with an aspirant journalist daughter) punched a fellow doctor who'd argued LK, right, wasn't pretty enough to be on TV, had a 'lopsided smile', and should only speak with a bag over her head.

If I'd been in the Spanish bar, I'd also have been tempted to punch the doctor's lights out. LK is the BBC's first female political editor. She is a superb and tireless broadcaster.

Admire her irrelevant 'asymmetrical' looks or not – and I do – but she is the most magnificent role model, not just for young women but for very well-refreshed middle-aged professionals who should know better too.

The Duchess of Sussex has been crowned Girl of the Year in Tatler’s October issue, which hits shops tomorrow. The society mag warbles that she has ‘that indefinable, unmissable quality that makes [her] the one for whom heads turn… and with whom everyone – but everyone – is desperate to be, right here, right now, and forever’. The issue combs through past nominees and also name-checks the Duchess of Cornwall and the Queen. Girls? Girls!? Even Meghan is a reasonably ripe woman of 37!

====== 2235 ========

IT'S DAVID CAMERON'S SUMMER BBQ WITH LABOUR ON THE GRILL SAYS JAMES FORSYTH

On Wednesday, David Cameron got the entire Cabinet, plus Boris Johnson, down to Chequers for an end-of-term catch-up. After the formal session in the morning, he invited everyone to eat outside.

The lunch was a chance to show off one of Cameron's most prized possessions – the Obama BBQ.

The £1,300 gift from the President is even personalised with a Union Jack and a Stars and Stripes. But just as everyone was scoffing their lamb burgers, sausages and salad, a rainstorm sent them scurrying back inside.

'We mustn't believe Corbyn's going to win.We must believe the madness will pass,' one aide said

It takes more than a little downpour to dampen Tory spirits these days, however. Ten minutes later, they were back outside in the sun for their strawberries and cream and basking in the warm glow of Labour in meltdown.

For the Opposition are in the middle of the most disastrous leadership contest in living memory. Tories can barely contain their glee that the shock new frontrunner is Jeremy Corbyn, a throwback to the days of the loony Left.

'Nobody can quite believe it', one Secretary of State tells me.

As the assembled Ministers discussed a presentation on the Labour leadership race from Downing Street aide Adam Atashzai, they tried desperately to keep their feet on the ground.

'We mustn't believe Corbyn's going to win. We must believe the madness will pass,' one told me, adding: 'We've got to assume that the next leader will be Andy [Burnham] or Yvette [Cooper] and plan on that basis.'

'Total utter terror' is how one veteran Labour campaigner sums up the mood in his party.

He warns that defeating Corbyn 'isn't about saving the next Election. It is about the Labour Party's very existence'. Why are Labour in a blind panic? Because the possibility of a Corbyn victory is all too real.

'It is a two-horse race and it is going to be close,' concedes one confidant of the previous frontrunner Burnham.

In fact, it may already be too late to stop Corbyn, according to one of those who has helped run a previously successful Labour leadership campaign. 'There is not much time on the clock to make up a lot of ground on a popular frontrunner,' warns the source, pointing out that the ballot papers go out in just three weeks.

'It is a total mistake to say this will go away because it has to.'

Corbyn's rivals are desperately hoping the darling of the Left won't be able to survive the scrutiny that is coming his way. But even if he falls at the last, the Corbyn phenomenon is doing real damage to the party.

One Cameron ally argues that it says something about today's Labour Party that there will be 'more votes for the candidate who is pro-Hamas than pro-business'. And as the row over welfare shows, the Corbyn tendency is dragging the party ever further from the Centre ground.

As the other candidates desperately try to shore up their Left flanks, the Tories are taking careful note of everything they say.

'Certain loose words that have been used, we can hang round their necks,' crows one Tory.

But most worrying of all for Labour is the failure of the other candidates to put Corbyn to the sword. Corbyn is no Tony Benn. He isn't a charismatic orator or a brilliant media performer. He's a bog-standard, old-fashioned, dyed-in-the-woolly-beard Left-winger. But he's still running rings around them. If Burnham and Cooper can't rally their own party behind them, what chance do they have of winning over the country?

...But guess who ended up sitting next to Theresa

Boris was put next to Home Secretary Theresa May, who had humiliated him in the Commons earlier this month

Boris Johnson's invitation to the Cabinet get-together at Chequers was meant to be an olive branch from Downing Street to the London Mayor after a difficult few weeks.

But whoever was doing the seating plan was in a mischievous mood. Boris was put next to Home Secretary Theresa May, who had humiliated him in the Commons earlier this month with her announcement that she would not allow the Metropolitan Police to use his water cannon.

Boris, pictured left with Mrs May, took this in good humour, I'm told, quipping that everyone might need hosing down.

But relations are so sensitive that David Cameron's team went out of their way to stress they weren't in charge of the placement. They pointed the finger at a civil servant with a rather wicked sense of humour.

As David Cameron heads to the Far East to promote British goods, he'll fly the flag in a rather unprepossessing jet.

I'm told that Downing Street looked into hiring a rather more luxurious aircraft with a special executive section, but they were beaten to all the available ones by the Premier League football teams heading east on their pre-season tours.

It's a reminder for Cameron, if he needed one, that there are a fair few Premier League exports who can command a bigger audience than he can.

Lynton Crosby masterminded the Tories' first outright Election victory in 23 years, but he isn't done yet. On Monday, he turned up in Parliament's Portcullis House to tell Tory MPs why people had voted for them.

In a demonstration of his influence, the Prime Minister, the Chancellor and the Chief Whip all turned out to hear his latest poll findings.

First, he pointed out that only one in ten voters had backed the Tories because of the local candidate, and a far higher number did so because of Tory policies. In other words, MPs shouldn't forget what got them to the Commons in the first place. Crosby then set out what the voters remember the Tories talking about. The economy was top of the list, followed closely by Europe. He said voters associated the Tories with 'performance measures' such as managing the economy and competence.

So far, so reassuring. But it was the next slide that had MPs squirming. Crosby asked voters what Tory promises they remember and the most popular was 'controlling immigration'.

Oh dear. This is what the Tories spectacularly failed to do in the last Parliament.

It was a timely reminder why David Cameron needs to make regaining control of our borders part of the EU renegotiation.

Or, as a straight-talking Aussie like Crosby might say: 'It's time to get a bloody grip, mate.'

Quotes of the Week

'When people say, 'My heart says I should be with that politics', well get a transplant.'

Tony Blair warns that Labour risks being out of power for years if it elects Left-winger Jeremy Corbyn as leader.

'It could have been a lot worse.'

Tracey Leach, after her son Brock, 14, survived a 100ft cliff fall AND being bitten by an adder in Cornwall.

'It does my nut in. You're on the phone and you have to get your sentences out between bongs.'

SNP's Mhairi Black has only been an MP for two months and is already irritated by Big Ben.

'We don't have recipes in it for falafel or anything like that.'

Actress Tilda Swinton - famous for her porcelain skin, has a tandoori tan, in her latest film role

'This woman looks like a lot of women I pass in the street every day - tandoori tan, the eye make-up and hair. But for me that look is extreme.'

Actress Tilda Swinton - famous for her porcelain skin - is unrecognisable in her latest film role.

Simon Keegan, of online magazine Martial Arts Guardian, is bemused by The Guardian newspaper's claim that readers might confuse the two publications.

'Today the Earth is a little less lonely because there's a new kid on the block.'

Nasa analyst Jon Jenkins, as scientists discover an Earth-like planet – a mere 1,400 light years away.

'The studded leather mini-dress looked good from a distance… of, say, 200 miles. Up close it would frighten a gargoyle.'

Writer Kathy Lette, recalls one of her fashion disasters.

'DNP: do not purchase, do not partake, do not please, death's not pleasant.'

Fiona Parry, whose daughter Eloise, 21, died after an accidental overdose of diet pill DNP.

'We had to choose between plague and cholera.'

Finnish politician Tino Soini explains why his country backed another bailout for Greece.

'She is probably thinking, 'If this goes in I'll get a new kitchen.'

Golf commentator Peter Alliss sparks a sexism row with his remarks about Kim Barclay, below, the wife of The Open winner Zach Johnson.

====== 2236 ========

JO FAIRLEY AND SARAH STACEY FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Please can you give me some quick tips for glamming up my make up when I have to dash straight from work to an event? I have a basic make up bag with me but I need some extra oomph for my desk drawer! ...read

====== 2237 ========

BEAUTY CLINIC: DESK TO DIVA MAKE UP KIT

Jo and Sarah answer real questions from readers: to put your query, go to beautybible.com

Q Please can you give me some quick tips for glamming up my make up when I have to dash straight from work to an event? I have a basic make up bag with me but I need some extra oomph for my desk drawer!

A We know exactly what you mean. There always seems to be about five minutes, ten if we’re lucky, to have that Cinderella moment. So we asked two of our favourite make up artists, Jenny Jordan (jennyjordan.com) and Armand Beasley (armandinternationalltd.com) for their top tips.

For more information follow Beauty Bible online here or on Facebook and Twitter

Here’s what Armand has dubbed the Desk to Diva Make Up Kit. It’s by way of being a quick fix pick ‘n mix so you can take what suits you – and the occasion. We’ve added some of our favourite items too.

Cleanse and prep in a trice with a hydrating cleansing pad, such as SkinMatrixHD Hydrating Micellar Pads, £27.50 for 60 from skinmatrixhd.com, or Yes to Coconut Hydrate & Restore Cleansing Wipes, £3.99 for 30.

Add a glow with an illuminating face cream such as Erborian Glow Crème, £16, which is a great base for foundation.

Apply your own foundation then dot concealer where you need it.

Wing a soft shimmer across your cheekbones, under brows, across the bridge of your nose and just above the centre of your upper lip. Jenny Jordan loves Dermalogica Skin Perfect Primer, £44.50, for this (yes, you can use it under your base but she prefers it on top like this).

Define and lift your brow - but don't go too dark, advises Jenny. Try Mii Sculpting Brow Builder in shades Remarkably Fair or Remarkably Medium, £14.95.

Warm up your eyelids with a whisk of powder blush or bronzer. Add subtle sparkle with Inika Organic Loose Mineral Eyeshadow in Gold Dust or one of the other seven shades depending on your colouring, £16.

Before you put on mascara (waterproof is definitely best), you can ‘smoke up your eyes in seconds’ (Armand’s words…) with Charlotte Tilbury Rock ‘n Kohl eye pencil, £16. Dot it along the top of your lash line while looking slightly downwards in a mirror, he suggests. If you’re confident with liner, you can flip it out at the sides, apply along the waterline or whatever.

Joosh on a setting spray such as Armand’s favourite Urban Decay All-nighter Setting Spray, £24.

And finally lipstick! Jenny suggests going for gloss. For longlast lips, she starts by applying Plump and Prime by Cosmetics à la Carte, outlines and fills in lips with Delilah Lip Line in Pout, then tops with award winning Delilah Colour Gloss in Jewel. We like adding different lippies into the mix, currently Axiology’s organic range – Bonafide is a gorgeous coral shade.

Don't forget that sparkly and/or pearly earrings can light up your face. And if you’ve time and your hair needs freshening, ruffle in some dry shampoo such as Klorane. The oat milk original version suits everyone and there’s also a new tinted version with nettle for oilier, medium to dark manes. Klorane promises it takes just two minutes all in to restore volume, freshness and texture.

Beauty Bible loves…

Guerlain Ladies In All Climates compact, £129.

What a wonderful keepsake to celebrate 190 years of fabulousness at Guerlain! Isn’t it such a great name? This powder was lightly dusted onto the noses of women around the late 19th Century and beyond – and the case is a reworking of the design from that time.

Guerlain Ladies In All Climates compact , £129. What a wonderful keepsake to celebrate 190 years of fabulousness at Guerlain!

Inside, the powder itself has had a teensy 21st Century makeover to make it more modern life-friendly, leaving skin luminous and radiant rather than flat and matte. Brilliant for setting make-up, it positively begs to be taken to dinner and dancing so you can powder your own nose, very obviously, at table. And the scent? Pure Guerlain, with its whispers of rose and violet.

A compact to make you forget everything your mother said about not applying make-up in public.

====== 2238 ========

HOROSCOPE: APPLY YOUR TALENTS IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION, SCORPIO

Scorpio 24 OCT-22 NOV You may feel enthusiastic, inspired and bursting with energy this week, but all that is of secondary importance with Mars, planet of action and ambition, squaring up to Jupiter, planet of optimism. If you don’t apply your talents in the right direction, it does not matter how much effort you make – you will never be satisfied with what you achieve. CALL 0904 470 1168 (65p per minute)*

Sagittarius 23 NOV-21 DEC Mars, at odds with Jupiter, gives you a false sense of urgency – if you don’t take action now, you fear you’ll miss your chance. On the contrary, if you do take action now, you may well do too much, too soon. Your attitude will mellow after the Sun enters your sign on Thursday. CALL 0904 470 1169 (65p per minute)*

Capricorn 22 DEC-20 JAN If you try to manipulate others’ emotions this week, you may find that it is your own that are being exploited. You are never more vulnerable than when you are trying to be smart, because there will always be someone smarter and more manipulative than you. CALL 0904 470 1170 (65p per minute)*

Aquarius 21 JAN-19 FEB You may be eager to get a project off the ground and this week’s Mars-Jupiter aspect is unlikely to increase your patience. But by moving ahead too fast, your resources will soon run dry. It may be frustrating, but the time is not yet right for that big push. CALL 0904 470 1171 (65p per minute)*

Pisces 20 FEB-20 MARCH No matter how hard you try to control your temper this week, Mars at odds with Jupiter will at some stage overpower you and you will blow your top. Don’t read too much into what you say or do. Everyone needs to let off steam occasionally – why should you be the exception? CALL 0904 470 1172 (65p per minute)*

Aries 21 MARCH-20 APRIL It may take a while to overcome worries that have plagued you recently, but already you should be looking forward to better days. The Sun in enlightening and exciting Sagittarius from Thursday is a wonderful omen – so get ready to put the past behind you. CALL 0904 470 1161 (65p per minute)*

Taurus 21 APRIL-21 MAY The thing you want most this week is the one thing you’ll try to reject and then, having done so, you’ll do anything to get it back. It might be wiser to forget about transforming your life and simply enjoy what you already have. It happens to be exactly what you need. CALL 0904 470 1162 (65p per minute)*

Gemini 22 MAY-21 JUNE You may feel as if you could defeat the world this week, but any victories will be short-lived if you ride roughshod over others’ feelings. No matter how invincible you may think you are, there is always someone bigger and tougher – and they’re getting closer all the time! CALL 0904 470 1163 (65p per minute)*

Cancer 22 JUNE-23 JULY It may seem that you have lost control over elements of your lifestyle and the more you try to steer yourself towards calmer waters, the more unseen powers draw you into a whirlpool of emotions. A confrontation is likely this week – if not with others, then certainly with yourself. CALL 0904 470 1164 (65p per minute)*

Leo 24 JULY-23 AUG You will get the chance this week to tackle a long-standing financial or business issue that has been worrying you for months. It is up to you whether or not you take the opportunity offered, but if you don’t, it will be a long time before something similar comes around again. CALL 0904 470 1165 (65p per minute)*

Virgo 24 AUG-23 SEPT Whether or not you want to get involved in a family or relationships dispute is beside the point. You simply have to bring your Virgo powers of fair play to bear if the situation is ever to be sorted out to everyone’s satisfaction. You should be proud to be a peacemaker. CALL 0904 470 1166 (65p per minute)*

Libra 24 SEPT-23 OCT Open and honest communication, primarily over subjects that annoy or upset you, is the only way to avoid crossed lines with partners and loved ones this week. Neither side may like what they hear, but at least the week will end on a more understanding note than it began. CALL 0904 470 1167 (65p per minute)*

To discover more about yourself, visit sallybrompton.com

*For a fuller forecast, call the number next to your star sign above. Calls cost 65p per minute plus your telephone company’s network access charge and will last no longer than 6 minutes. SP: DMG Mobile & TV. Helpline: 0808 272 0808

====== 2239 ========

ZELDA WEST-MEADS YOU FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

Thirteen years ago my father overstepped the mark with my five-year-old daughter. He and my mother both denied it but he also sexually abused my sister when she was young. My daughter can’t remember the details but knows that something bad happened. I refused to see my father for many years but my mother was hostile, saying that it was unfair on my daughter not to be fully part of the family. Recently, I started seeing my father again –purely so I can have a relationship with my mother ...read

====== 2240 ========

ASK ZELDA: OUR RELATIONSHIPS EXPERT ZELDA WEST-MEADS ANSWERS YOUR QUESTIONS

If you have a problem, email z.west-meads@you.co.uk. Zelda reads all your letters but regrets that she cannot answer them all personally

My husband won’t give up his mistress – or let me leave

When my husband and I moved abroad he persuaded his mistress – who is 20 years younger than him – to quit her job in London and move close to us. I think she was surprised when she found out he was still living with me and our eight-year-old daughter but, despite him telling her that he would never leave us, she still stayed for eight months. He lied to me whenever he went to see her and paid for all her expenses including hotels, shopping, entertaining, phone and travel costs. She even stayed at his mother’s house for two weeks. I couldn’t leave him at that time because we were working on a business venture together. Eventually, his mistress moved back to London and, with her gone, I was hoping we would be able to rebuild our life together. However, he still travels back to London and I know that he is in touch with her. We fight all the time and I have asked for a divorce, but he says I am being overemotional and that it would not be good for our daughter. I own our home and could afford to leave him but I am nervous about doing it. I need some guidance and there is nobody else I can turn to.

I think you know that you need to end this marriage. To continue like this will only make you even more unhappy. The way your husband has treated you is appalling and it must make you question his feelings for you. If he is intending to keep going to London, he is obviously planning to visit his mistress. You can afford to divorce and I think he needs to know that you are not prepared to put up with his behaviour any longer. He is trying to manipulate you by saying that divorce will harm your daughter – it can be just as distressing for children caught in a marriage where their parents are always arguing or unhappy. Can you confide in a friend for support? Find a counsellor to give you the confidence to break free, and consult a solicitor, too.

I’m not sure if I can trust my sister

My sister often tells lies. She once told my boyfriend that I had gone off with another man, which was not true. She later admitted that she did this to break us up and that she has always hated my boyfriend. He tells me that he doesn’t like her either but tolerates her because she loves our baby so much. However, when she came to stay with us shortly after having an abortion, she was in a bad way and my boyfriend was very kind to her. Recently, after she came to visit, he was texting her friendly messages. Why do that if he hates her? When I asked my sister whether he had kissed her she was furious at the suggestion. Now she has told me that when she was staying at our house she woke up to find my boyfriend touching her inappropriately. I have been asleep and woken up on a couple of occasions to find him having sex with me but I just thought this was because we were close to each other. I don’t know what to think.

It could be that your sister genuinely dislikes your boyfriend, which is why she wants you to break up with him – or do you think she could fancy him and is trying to get him for herself? Your boyfriend might have just felt sorry for her and was being kind after she had an abortion, but I am not convinced. The fact that your sister flew off the handle when you asked her if he had kissed her could be because they had and she felt guilty. However, what concerns me more is that you sometimes wake up to find him having sex with you. Sex should be a lovely, shared, mutual experience and many people would say this was assault. I think you should talk to him about this and also question him very carefully about what has gone on with your sister. I’m afraid, though, from all that you say, I am not sure that you should trust either of them.

Sex is a struggle after spending years alone

I met my partner six months ago and things are so good that I wish that I had met him 50 years ago – we are both in our 70s. There is one problem, though, and we are getting very frustrated about it. So far, we have not managed to have sex. I spoke about it to my GP, who advised us to be spontaneous. But my partner says he can’t achieve penetration because of my ‘podgy’ tummy. I wouldn’t say I’m fat – its size is mainly down to me having slack muscles following two difficult births. My partner takes Viagra which helps a little, but he wants me to achieve climax before he does and I am finding that difficult as I have not been in a sexual relationship for the past 20 years.

You both may be anxious and are finding it difficult to relax when making love, so take things slowly. Make sure you include lots of foreplay and show each other what you both enjoy. At first, find ways to achieve orgasm that don’t have to include full sex. When you move on to lovemaking, try to find a position that also allows him to stimulate your clitoris. If the problem is that Viagra is not giving your partner a full erection, he should see his GP to ask to try a different medication. I also recommend you both read the books How to Make Great Love to a Woman/Man by Phillip Hodson and Anne Hooper and try sex therapy through Relate (relate.org.uk) or the College of Sexual and Relationship Therapists (cosrt.org.uk).

====== 2241 ========

LIZ JONES DIARY FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

Well, we had liftoff. The elusive male orgasm was achieved. I think I know what precipitated the precipitation, twice. The first time, we had returned from an evening in Stringfellows, the upmarket lapdancing club. I’d been forced to go along for a piece I’m researching about life post #MeToo, and was damned if I’d go alone. So I asked David. ‘OK, but I’m not that keen,’ he said. I told him this was total nonsense. ...read

====== 2242 ========

MIMI SPENCER'S FABULOUS 5:2 BEACH DIET: SUPER-SIMPLE FRIDGE GAZPACHO

Oat-berry smoothie

Oats are full of soluble fibre and release energy slowly to set you up for the day (use jumbo oats rather than the more finely milled). For one serving (220 calories), place 5 tbsp skimmed milk in a food processor with 3 tbsp jumbo oats, 100g (3½ oz) low-fat Greek yoghurt and 50g (2oz) blueberries. Blitz. Try low-lactose cow’s milk instead of skimmed, or almond milk for a non-dairy alternative.

====== 2243 ========

ABANDON SHIP! MOYES AND HIS MEN ARE SINKING WITHOUT TRACE SO DON'T LET THEM TAKE YOU DOWN TOO... AND PREPARE FOR 'AERIAL PLAYMAKER' CARROLL'S RETURN

Abandon ship! Moyes and his men are sinking without trace so don't let them take you down too... and prepare for 'aerial playmaker' Carroll's return



Welcome to Sportsmail's weekly Fantasy Football column which will try to help you get the edge on your friends, family and Jamie Redknapp.

Here, Rik Sharma considers the key issues in the game, from the men to bring in or avoid, through to which teams have a tasty looking run of fixtures.



In years gone by, Manchester United were reliable. Trustworthy.

Players like Nemanja Vidic and Wayne Rooney pulled their weight.

Before them, it was Cristiano Ronaldo and Ruud van Nistelrooy.

You could put three of them in your fantasy football side and be assured that you were getting what you paid for.

But that simply isn’t the case any more.

David Moyes hasn’t put a strategy in place for his version of the Red Devils. If you were asked to describe how they go about playing football, you’d find it hard to put in words.

Some of the supporters might find a few abrasive four-letter ones.

Perhaps the only consistent theme with this side is that they cross the ball a lot.

But Wayne Rooney and Robin van Persie aren’t incredible in the air. Juan Mata is better in the middle than on the flank.

And it adds up, both in real-life and in fantasy football, to a lot of expensive players putting in not-very-good results.

The defence, meanwhile, is clearly not good enough either. Nemanja Vidic is leaving, Rio Ferdinand and Patrice Evra are set to join him in the march towards the Old Trafford exit.

It just leaves a lot of rotation at the back and youngsters like Chris Smalling out of his depth.

Pulling in different directions: Robin van Persie (right) was outspoken about his team-mates after a humbling defeat in Greece

No case for the defence: Nemanja Vidic (left) is looking past his best, while Patrice Evra is on his way out too



The good old days: Ruud van Nistelrooy and Cristiano Ronaldo were must-haves for fantasy football owners

There’s even disharmony in the camp. Van Persie said, after the Olympiacos defeat: ‘Our fellow players are sometimes occupying the spaces I want to play in.

‘And unfortunately, they are often playing in my zones. I think that’s a shame.

‘And when I see that, it makes it difficult for me to come to those spaces as well.

‘So that forces me to adjust my runs, based on the position of my fellow players.’

Perhaps that explains why the game’s most expensive player is only the 14th top-scoring striker.

Rooney, his strike partner (allegedly; they barely pass to each other) is faring better, in seventh place, but that’s still no great shakes.

Midfielder Antonio Valencia is the top scoring United player in that department.

The leader of the pack: Antonio Valencia (left) is United's top-scoring midfielder... but only the 49th in the game

Low scoring: At a princely £9million, Michael Carrick has earned just 67 points

But he’s a shocking 49th. That puts him in what would be the 12th best midfield in the Premier League if it was based on goals, assists and wins.

His team-mates, Ashley Young, Michael Carrick, Adnan Januzaj and Co, fare significantly worse.

Evra is the highest scoring United defender and he’s 14th, boosted by scoring a handful of goals.

If you’ve been holding onto any United player, in the hope they might eventually come good, you’re waiting for Godot.

Ditch them, and quickly.

The classic combo

Andy Carroll is back from his three-match suspension and nobody will be happier than his partner in crime Kevin Nolan.

West Ham are in fine form and it was kick started by the big striker’s return from injury.

It got Nolan, who feeds on his knock-downs and layoffs, back among the goals and he’s been scoring since.

Of course, Carroll was sent off for that elbow flung at Chico Flores, and has been absent, but it hasn’t stopped the Hammers knocking down any nails that stick up in their path.



Back in action: Andy Carroll (right) will be reunited with pal Kevin Nolan (left) after completing his three-match ban

Are Everton going to be their next victims this weekend? Even if Carroll doesn’t find the net himself, he boosts the potential of midfielder Nolan.

He’d be a fine differential at this stage of the season.

Have we got the Blackpool Adam back?

More known for his clumping tackles than his assists and goals these days, Charlie Adam is a far cry from his Blackpool days.

But in recent weeks, that’s started to change.



Mixed bag: Is Charlie Adam (right) becoming a more attractive proposition at £5m?

The Scot has started to take control of games for Stoke, bagging three goals in his last nine games, and playing several key passes.

However, he’s still got that lack of discipline - he’s been booked four times in the last five matches.

Swans survival push

In a recent column it was made clear that Swansea had a great chance to start pushing forward in their bid to avoid the drop.

Their 4-3 defeat by Liverpool won’t have been good for the defence but anyone who put Wilfried Bony in on the back of that will have benefited.

And that came after drawing 0-0 with Napoli in the Europa League.



Upturn in fortunes? Wilfried Bony (second left) is crucial to Swansea's survival hopes

If they hadn’t put so much effort in against the Italians, who knows what might have happened?

Having played - and lost 3-1 - in Italy again, the squad may be tired for their game against Crystal Palace on Sunday night.

It’s a shame, as that would be a great opportunity for their key players to score points.

If you have Swansea players in your side, perhaps you’ll be hoping they’re knocked out of Europe to concentrate on domestic affairs.

Super SuarezEase the pain for M Who's going to save Crystal Palace?



Most selected XI

GK: Simon Mignolet (28.01%)

DF: Leighton Baines (34.54%)

DF: Branislav Ivanovic (19.04%)

DF: John Terry (17.71%)

DF: Pablo Zabaleta (17.46%)

MF: Eden Hazard (27.56%)

MF: Yaya Toure (24.22%)

MF: Oscar (20.74%)



ST: Luis Suarez (35.77%)

ST: Robin van Persie (34.20%)

ST: Olivier Giroud (19.80%)



Lynchpin: Luis Suarez (left) is a keystone to Liverpool's hopes this season - and more than one in three of you have the Uruguayan in your team

Play on the go!



We've launched our mobile Fantasy Football site which makes it even easier for you to make transfers and substitutions on the go.



You might not have the time to sit around at home and mull over transfer decisions but now you can do it while you're on the bus, or waiting in the supermarket queue, or wherever else you fancy.



You can now play MailOnline's Fantasy Football game on your mobile - making transfers and subs on the go!











Jamie Redknapp's team for this weekend... Jamie Redknapp transfers:

Yaya Toure (Man City) out, Santi Cazorla (Arsenal) in



Premier League week 28 fixtures

====== 2244 ========

PETER HITCHENS: LET'S FACE IT... WE’RE A SMALL, DEBT-RIDDEN COUNTRY NOBODY CARES ABOUT

For far too long we in this country have thought we were richer, more powerful and, in general, better than we actually are. Now we find out the hard truth, exposed in all its gloomy detail by the EU talks. Will we learn the necessary lesson, or will we prefer our precious illusions?

I can just remember in the mists of childhood memory the 1956 Suez crisis, the feeling of panic and humiliation in the air.

In that year, too many of us continued to imagine we were more important than we were. The Americans wasted no time in letting us know that we no longer ruled the waves, harassing our ships at sea and threatening us with bankruptcy on the world markets.

Say what you like about Theresa May (pictured on Thursday), and I have. But in this matter she has borne herself with dignity and integrity, a quiet, unshowy, resolute and very English sort of dogged courage of the kind I was brought up to admire, writes Peter Hitchens

The sense of decline was especially strong in our house, since my father was a Naval officer, and the end of Britain as a world power also meant the rapid shrinking of the fleet and, as it happened, the end of his 30 years in Her Majesty’s service.

Then came the Profumo affair. A once-respected governing class was caught with its trousers down and, while I had no idea what a call-girl was, or what the War Minister was supposed to have done, I sensed ever afterwards that authority had just gone soft and would give way when pushed.

And so it proved. In the decades that followed, we abandoned all the things that had made us great. Thatcherism, much misunderstood and over-rated at the time, did little to reverse the underlying decline. Years later, when I finally went to live abroad, I learned how little other countries cared about us. The toughest lesson came in Washington DC, where I observed our powerlessness when Bill Clinton took the side of the Provisional IRA against Britain, his supposed closest democratic ally, and forced us to give in to terror.

How I laugh now when they go on, in the USA, about how they will never give in to Al Qaeda or Islamic State, or whoever it is. Oh, really? Those who now moan over Northern Ireland having a special status in the EU deal have left it a bit late. Since Britain’s forced surrender to Sinn Fein in 1998, arranged to placate Irish votes and political donors in the USA, the province has only been a conditional part of the UK.

A single referendum can (and will) hand it over forever to Dublin’s control at any time. We are a small, increasingly indebted and poorly defended country off the coast of North-West Europe, with an education system which is a global disgrace. We are not the great world power we would like to think we are.

What sort of deal did you think such a nation could get from our giant German-dominated neighbour? Personally, I’d hoped to shake loose from the frightful European Arrest Warrant but nobody even seems to have asked for that, thanks to our weird obsession with trade over all else.

Otherwise, this is what there is. Say what you like about Theresa May, and I have. But in this matter she has borne herself with dignity and integrity, a quiet, unshowy, resolute and very English sort of dogged courage of the kind I was brought up to admire.

She has peered over the abyss and knows what is there. Nobody else would have done any better.

Let us have it over and done with. The politicians may play their little games for a few days yet, making investments for their future careers.

But this is what we can get and if we do not take it, then it will be Suez all over again – a few brief weeks of heady fantasy, and many long hard years paying the bill for our illusions.

Donald Trump’s fanatic supporters are astonishing. Nothing their coarse, menacing, ignorant hero does is ever wrong. But how will they cope with his pitiful failure to pay his respects at an American war cemetery at Belleau Wood, in France, because it was raining?

How will Trump supporters (Trump is pictured here at the White House) cope with his pitiful failure to pay his respects at an American war cemetery at Belleau Wood, in France, because it was raining, writes Peter Hitchens

As for his jeering at the French, that without the Americans they would now be speaking German, does the German-descended President even know that without France there would be no USA?

Does he know that it was French money, French guns and ammunition and, above all, the French navy that saved George Washington from defeat at the hands of Britain and its German mercenaries? I shouldn’t think so.

Hopeless Beeb flunks another history test

I never thought all that much of the BBC series The Night Manager, a silly and nonsensical adaptation of a lightweight book by John le Carré, once a truly great writer, but alas great no longer, thanks to too much adulation. But the attempt to cash in on its success by filming The Little Drummer Girl is much worse.

Charlie (played by Florence Pugh) in The Little Drummer Girl, who in the book was repeatedly beaten up by her aggressively nasty Marxist actor boyfriend

The story in the book was always hard to credit, though ingenious. But its sideswipes at European Left-wing fanatics of that age were very telling. In the book, the heroine, Charlie (played in the series by Florence Pugh), was repeatedly beaten up by her aggressively nasty Marxist actor boyfriend. You can see lots of reasons why nobody would dare to include that now, but leaving it out makes her decision to throw in her lot with the Israelis much harder to understand.

And, yet again, they make characters smoke, to show it is the past, while allowing them to use the modern phrase ‘train station’ which nobody said in those days. Try it the other way round, some time.

The zealots determined to destroy our faith

The National Trust has – for once – retreated, after being caught out using the anti-Christian terms ‘Before Common Era’ (BCE) and ‘Common Era’ (CE) at one of its properties.

But for how long? Large parts of the BBC, including the increasingly unwatchable quiz show University Challenge, have done the same for years. Many schools do so, though parents will be the last to find out what is going on in these unaccountable, secretive dens of propaganda.

A timeline at Avebury Manor in Wiltshire (pictured) used BCE (Before Common Era) and CE (Common Era) instead of Before Christ and Anno Domini (the year of Our Lord)

The excuse is always that referring to Anno Domini ‘In the year of our Lord’ and ‘Before Christ’ will in some way upset followers of other religions. The same pretext is always used for clumsy attempts to avoid mentioning Easter and Christmas, and the horrible neutered greeting card expressions ‘Season’s Greetings’ and, worse still, ‘Happy Holidays’.

But nobody can ever find anyone who is offended by these things. The people who want to stamp out any reference to the word ‘Christ’ in our culture are the anti-Christian fanatics who have fanned out across the country since the universities began to churn them out in large numbers in the 1960s. Their anthem is John Lennon’s ghastly song Imagine and their creed is the selfism of the drug abuser and the abortionist: ‘Nobody can tell me what to do with my body.’

You will notice one very interesting thing about them. They never try to stamp out public expressions of Islam. That is because they’re afraid of it. But who’s afraid of Justin Welby?

If you want to comment on Peter Hitchens click here

====== 2245 ========

PRINCE CHARLES HAS EARNED THE RIGHT TO BE CROWNED KING OF ENGLAND

Life for today's younger generation can be very tough. Finding a job and a home is not easy, with the result that many are still living in the shadow of their parents well into their 20s and 30s.

They remain perennial children for ever in thrall to the older generation. It can't be easy.

And then there's Prince Charles, who turns 70 today.

Prince Charles turns 70 today. 'The often overlooked triumph of the Prince of Wales is how much he has managed to achieve despite the constraints placed upon him.'

At an age when most people are looking forward to retirement, he is still living next door to his parents, still waiting to take on the biggest challenge of his life following one of the greatest acts in royal history.

Even if he shares his mother's good health, he will never beat her record as the longest-serving monarch. Nor, I suspect, will he ever occupy the same place in the nation's heart, certainly not while the ghost of Diana still hovers over him. But that is no reason to dismiss Charles, as so many have done over the years.

Indeed, the often overlooked triumph of the Prince of Wales is how much he has managed to achieve despite the constraints placed upon him. How, despite being seemingly locked in permanent royal limbo, he has somehow forged ahead, in his own idiosyncratic way and at his own pace, shaping his legacy before the crown has touched his head.

In fact, one might argue that had the Queen (God forbid) made way sooner, much of what he has achieved might never have happened.

He said as much himself, in a recent BBC documentary marking today's milestone: when he is King he will stop speaking out on topics he feels strongly about, as he is 'not that stupid'.

Instead, he will operate within 'constitutional parameters', avoiding politics and taking a more neutral stance on controversial issues.

It's clear why he says this: he respects the position of monarch and does not want to undermine it. But in many ways it's a bit of a shame.

For while Charles 'unleashed' hasn't always met with universal approval among the public and his critics, much of what was considered eccentric and 'meddling' about his past behaviour has, with hindsight, turned out to be rather inspired. Or certainly ahead of its time.

As he puts it himself: 'If it's meddling to worry about the inner cities as I did 40 years ago, then if that's meddling I'm proud of it.'

As well he should be. Perhaps if politicians had taken him more seriously all that time ago we wouldn't be facing this devastating epidemic of violence on our streets.

His outspoken attacks on the ugliness of modern architecture and shoddiness of modern housebuilding; his warnings about climate change, wildlife extinction and rainforest depletion; his concern for the future of farming and the rural environment; his commitment to organic food and humane husbandry; his interest in studying Islam in pursuit of cultural harmony; his commitment to improving education standards, training and employment opportunities through the Prince's Trust.

Prince of Wales poses for an official portrait to mark his 60th birthday

All of these are issues on which he has spoken out over the decades in the face of fierce opposition and ridicule. And yet, with that dogged determination that has been such an admirable feature of his mother's character, he has ploughed on, undeterred — if not unscathed — by the naysayers.

True, Charles has come across sometimes as hand-wringing and occasionally petulant. Yet it is undeniable that he has used his immense privilege to highlight important, if not always fashionable, issues — and to try to help re-shape the cultural landscape for the better.

Of course, there will always be those who will never forgive him for what happened with Diana. Their marriage was a disaster and her death a tragedy. But just as a wife should not be defined by her husband, so Charles should not be defined by that unhappy union.

Diana was always cast as the romantic in their relationship, he the cold-hearted pragmatist.

But the fact that he eventually married his true love — Camilla — in the face of sustained hostility has always struck me as one of the great romantic gestures of our time, the mark of a man clearly capable of great passion and even courage. As for his children — William and Harry — what greater expression of Charles's talents as a father could there be than these two young men who have overcome their mother's death to build useful, fulfilling lives for themselves.

In pictures released today, we see the three of them, surrounded by the women they love, looking closer than ever.

So, yes, Charles has made mistakes. But who, as they turn 70, has not? A lesser prince might have spent his life in idle luxury, waiting for his birthright, grumbling about his lot. But not Charles. Even if he were never to wear the crown, he has proven himself worthy of it.

So here's to you, Prince Charles. As Churchill said: KBO. Keep bxxxering on, and many happy returns.

Holly's mild, not wild

'Fragrant as she is, I'm not sure that replacing naughty Ant McPartlin with Holly Willoughby (left) as the I'm A Celebrity co-presenter is quite the right choice'

Fragrant as she is, I'm not sure that replacing naughty Ant McPartlin with Holly Willoughby (left) as the I'm A Celebrity co-presenter is quite the right choice.

Granted, she probably looks much better than Ant in a bikini (or, for that matter, a Marks & Spencer jumper), and she's a very professional presenter. But in terms of personality isn't she perhaps a bit . . . well, safe?

The point about Ant and Dec was that — in the tradition of all great TV duos — Ant was the cheeky chappie to Dec's straight man.

I imagine Willoughby's idea of cheeky is asking for an extra shot of decaf in her soya latte.

For many women, including myself, 'wife' can feel like a loaded word.' So says Michelle Obama in her new book, Becoming.

There are many women who will know exactly what the former First Lady means, but none more so perhaps than Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor.

On a tour of France in the company of that country's President, Emmanuel Macron, Merkel was mistaken by a very determined 101-year-old lady for Madame Macron. No amount of protestations could persuade the centenarian otherwise.

A reminder, perhaps, that no matter how far she gets in her career — and Merkel has certainly achieved plenty in hers — a woman too often risks being overshadowed by the man next to her.

Even if he happens to be an undersized popinjay with a Napoleon complex.

Respect? Not from Toxic Toksvig...

The Great British Bake Off presenter Sandi Toksvig (right) has lent her name to a letter signed by fellow humanists demanding that they get a shot at the Today Programme's Thought For The Day.

'The Great British Bake Off presenter Sandi Toksvig (right) has lent her name to a letter signed by fellow humanists demanding that they get a shot at the Today Programme's Thought For The Day'

Apparently, humanists 'make sense of the world through logic, reason and evidence, and always seek to treat others with warmth, understanding and respect.'

Is this the same Sandi Toksvig who once described my husband, Michael Gove, as having a face that 'makes even the most pacifist of people reach for the shovel'? Call me old-fashioned, but that seems a very odd definition of 'warmth, understanding and respect'.

ALL 20 clubs in the Premier League have been asked for a £250,000 contribution to buy outgoing executive chairman Richard Scudamore a £5 million farewell gift. Certainly puts the average office whip-round into perspective!

A real Xmas message

Iceland's Christmas advert featuring Rang-tan, a baby orang-utan whose habitat has been destroyed by palm oil cultivation, has been deemed too 'political' to be broadcast on television.

You can, of course, see the advert on YouTube, where it is already closing rapidly on four million views.

I'll be honest: it's a little bit syrupy for my taste, and a touch self-satisfied. But as far as I know, this is the one time that an organisation has decided to use its marketing budget not to flog more pointless stuff but to convey a genuinely Christian message of love and respect for our fellow creatures.

The supermarket chain's festive commercial features the friendship between a young girl and a baby orangutan

How the advertising regulator Clearcast can justify banning that and not, say, the incessant adverts urging people to gamble online, or pushing junk food to children, is a mystery.

It's not Rang-tan who's the problem here — but the daft apes at Clearcast.

A couple from Banbury, Oxfordshire, have been convicted of belonging to a banned far-Right group. The giveaway, apparently, was naming their son after Adolf Hitler. Personally, I find this encouraging — it displays a reassuring level of stupidity.

====== 2246 ========

A TORY TRIUMPH UNDER A SEEMINGLY UNSTOPPABLE RUTH DAVIDSON

This was the night of the long claymores. Scots voters scythed down Alex Salmond, that tallest of tartan poppies, and 20 of his separatist pals.

The General Election result north of the border was eye-poppingly savage and, in its way, thumpingly decisive. And on a night of crisis at Westminster, for those of a unionist persuasion it provided a moment of cheer.

Where Theresa May fell short, the seemingly unstoppable Ruth Davidson, leader of the Scottish Conservative and Unionist Party, delivered in spades. Thanks to her, ‘Tory’ is no longer a dirty word in Scotland: the party doubled its share of the vote to 28.6pc, and leapt from one seat to 13. It was their best result since 1983.

Nicola Sturgeon has been put on notice: up your game or at the next Holyrood elections in 2021, you could be out on your ear

Aged just 38, and arguably the most successful and popular Conservative in Britain, Miss Davidson looks to have a very big future ahead of her. In a party desperately short of star power, she glitters all the more brightly.

The result means Scottish politics has changed utterly. The message has been sent loud and clear that a second independence referendum is not wanted, and that the SNP’s failure to get to grips with declining school performance and poor public services will not do.

Nicola Sturgeon has been put on notice: up your game or at the next Holyrood elections in 2021, you could be out on your ear.

There was no mercy shown on a night when reputation counted for nothing. Salmond lost to Tory Colin Clark, who in his victory speech declared ‘the silent majority have spoken — we’re proud to be part of the United Kingdom’.

And that wasn’t just hyperbole. In 2015, the share of the vote won by pro-UK parties in Scotland was 48.7pc. On Thursday, it was more than 61pc.

A bigger blow to the Nationalists came when Angus Robertson, their impressive leader at Westminster, was turfed out of his Moray seat.

Across the North, the central belt and the Borders, large, often five-digit majorities won just two years ago were swept away in the electoral whirlwind.

Salmond lost to Tory Colin Clark, who in his victory speech declared ‘the silent majority have spoken — we’re proud to be part of the United Kingdom’

Those separatists who survived often did so by the skin of their teeth: Stephen Gethins held on to North East Fife by just two votes over the Lib Dems after three recounts. In Perth, Pete Wishart won by 21 votes.

If this isn’t quite the end of the SNP — they retained 35 of their 56 seats — it is undoubtedly the beginning of the end.

After a decade in power in Edinburgh, and the spell of prolonged mass popularity that followed 2014’s independence referendum, the Nats are on the wane.

It is the age-old problem of what happens when a passionate political movement actually wins power — and is exposed as being ill-equipped to run a whelk stall.

Reports have shown that literacy and numeracy levels are falling among Scottish children, despite Miss Sturgeon’s promise to make education reform the centrepiece of her administration.

In the end, her measures have been timid and unconvincing, largely because she is wary of alienating Left-wing teaching unions and public-sector workers who she hopes will support the break-up of Britain in a second referendum. The ultimate goal of independence has consistently acted as a block on the hard, thankless business of effective government. Finally, the Scots have woken up to this.

Yet the First Minister is no fool. In an unusually muted speech at her official Bute House residence in Edinburgh yesterday, she hinted that a second referendum will now be put on the backburner.

‘Undoubtedly, the issue of an independence referendum was a factor in this election result,’ she said. ‘I’m going to reflect carefully on the result and going to take some time to do that.’

She recognised ‘a desire to bring people together and find a way forward that was rooted in consensus. I recognise my responsibilities as First Minister to play my part in that, and for that to be very much in the forefront of my mind.’

As welcome as this would be if it were genuinely her choice, in truth Miss Sturgeon has little option.

Ruth Davidson’s success is in large part down to positioning her party as doughty defenders of the Union, while Labour and the Lib Dems have wobbled on the issue.

Ruth Davidson’s success is in large part down to positioning her party as doughty defenders of the Union, while Labour and the Lib Dems have wobbled on the issue

She has repeatedly criticised Sturgeon for allowing her constitutional obsession to get in the way of the day job. Voters are clearly finding these arguments compelling, and it appears they could be losing faith in the SNP.

If the Nats’ fall from grace continues at such a brisk pace, there is an outside possibility that Miss Davidson’s momentum could carry her all the way to Bute House in four years time.

It will also worry the SNP that Scottish Labour is showing signs of life: after years in the doldrums, the party that gave Britain major figures such as Gordon Brown and John Smith has begun competing for left-of-centre votes again.

Having lost all of its Westminster seats but one in 2015, it secured seven in Thursday’s poll, giving a much-needed fillip to Kezia Dugdale, its leader at Holyrood.

The Lib Dems, who had also been cut to a single seat last time around, increased their haul to four.

Until now, to borrow Ken Clarke’s phrase about Theresa May, Miss Sturgeon has played the role of ‘bloody difficult woman’ in her relationship with the PM.

She has demanded a special Brexit deal for Scotland that would allow continued access to the single market, and threatened a new independence referendum if her demands are not met.

Now, I suspect, Mrs May will find that Ruth Davidson can also be bloody difficult. The Scottish Tory leader does not share the Prime Minister’s hardline take on leaving the EU, her desire to heavily restrict immigration, or her attachment to grammar schools.

And the moral authority and political muscle now wielded by Davidson will make it hard for Mrs May to wave away her concerns: remember, without the 13 seats secured in Scotland, the Prime Minister would not be back in Downing Street today.

One question will linger: just how far can Davidson go? It’s not hard to think of this gifted Scot one day walking over the threshold of No 10 and calling it home.

Is this the end for Nicola Sturgeon? SNP leader could be AXED following staggering losses to Tories led by Ruth Davidson as she admits calls for Indyref2 cost her seats

Amie Gordon, Richard Spillett and Scott Campbell for MailOnline

Nicola Sturgeon could face the sack after admitting her dogged pursuit of a second independence referendum cost the SNP seats.

The First Minister's party lost a staggering 21 MPs north of the border - down to 35 from 56 in 2015 - after Ruth Davidson's pro-Union Tories made huge gains.

Nicola Sturgeon (pictured today) refused to resign after the SNP took a battering in Scotland and admitted her dogged pursuit of a second independence referendum had cost seats

An SNP source told MailOnline there would be 'questions' over Ms Sturgeon's leadership.

Her deputy John Swinney has also conceded they may have to look again at demanding Indyref2 after losing so many seats.

Speaking today Ms Sturgeon said SNP plans for another independence referendum were 'undoubtedly' a factor in the election result - but refused to admit it was 'dead'.

She said: 'It is an inescapable fact we suffered bitterly disappointing losses last night. The independence referendum was undoubtedly an issue in this election but it was not the only issue'.

When asked if she'll now dump Indyref2 she suggested it could be postponed - not scrapped - and said: 'I'm going to pause and reflect carefully on the result and move forward in the best interests of all of Scotland'.

She added said her party had 'clearly won the election in Scotland' and secured more seats than the other parties combined with a second vote at the heart of their manifesto.

SNP deputy leader Angus Robertson and former first minister Alex Salmond were both dumped out of office by the Conservatives yesterday.

The Tories' seats are up from one to 13 and Ms Davidson is now being urged to take a 'leading role' in London - and is among the favourites to replace Theresa May after her election nightmare.

Labour won seven seats in Scotland – up from the one they had left following their 2015 election wipeout.

Scottish Conservative leader Davidson said plans for a second independence referendum were now 'dead' and Labour leader Kezia Dugdale said the issue must 'disappear'.

Nicola Sturgeon is facing massive backlash against her renewed bid to break up Britain.

The loss of 21 seats is the worst electoral reversal suffered by an SNP leader in nearly 40 years.

Ms Sturgeon explained it by saying: 'I strongly suspect there were independence supporters amongst those who voted for Jeremy Corbyn yesterday,' she said, stressing that 'rushing to overly-simplistic judgments' about the election was 'not the right thing to do'.

Deputy first minister John Swinney said earlier: 'Clearly the focus on the message of saying no to a second independence referendum gained very significant traction.

'We saw that and we felt that.'

Alex Salmond and Angus Robertson were among the SNP big hitters to lose their seat

Ms Sturgeon also slammed Theresa May for calling election and said she must now abandon her 'reckless' plans for Hard Brexit and 'keep the UK in the single market'.

Sturgeon also said the prime minister had 'lost all authority and credibility,' and should resign.

Ruth Davidson is being talked about as a possible replacement.

Lord Ashcroft, a former deputy chairman of the Conservatives, said: 'Increasing calls even at this stage for Ruth Davidson taking a leading role in the national Conservative Party and rightly so.'

It is now highly unlikely that the nationalists will be able to hold a second referendum with just 35 seats.

Before the polls opened, Ms Davidson warned of the dangers of further 'constitutional wrangling'

She said: 'Every seat the SNP takes, will on Friday be hailed as a ringing endorsement of independence.

'As ever, she will try claim that Scotland has spoken with one voice. Her voice.

'I want that claim to ring hollow. I want to silence it once and for all.'

Before yesterday's election, the SNP was in control of all of Scotland apart from a few seats - the picture has changed completely today

Ms Sturgeon insisted her party had won the election in Scotland - returning more MPs than its rivals combined.

The SNP leader added: 'It is an inescapable fact that we also suffered some bitterly disappointing losses last night.'

She paid tribute to Mr Robertson, who had been MP for Moray since 2001, describing him as a 'politician and parliamentarian of immense stature, who week after week held the Prime Minister to account, providing the scrutiny that the official opposition in the House of Commons failed to do'.

Ms Sturgeon continued: 'I want to also make particular mention of Alex Salmond, my friend and mentor for almost 30 years, and without a shadow of a doubt the giant of modern Scottish politics - someone who has devoted his life to serving this country.'

The 2015 result, in which the SNP won all but three of the seats in Scotland, was an 'exceptional, perhaps once in a century' achievement, she said.

'Traditionally in Westminster elections, the SNP is squeezed by the main UK parties.

'Indeed in this campaign we have seen the return of a dominant two-party system in England.

'This makes the SNP's achievement of winning a clear majority of seats in Scotland all the more remarkable.

'However, as we do after all elections, we will reflect on these results, we will listen to voters and we will consider very carefully the best way forward for Scotland, a way forward that is in the interests of all of Scotland.'

The Conservatives won former First Minister Alex Salmond's seat of Gordon in Aberdeenshire

With the Tories having lost their majority, she said the SNP would 'work with others, if it is at all possible, to keep the Tories out of government'.

Ms Sturgeon stated: 'We've always said that we would work in alliance with others to promote progressive policies to build a fairer country.

'We stand ready to play our part in that alliance.'

She criticised Theresa May, who called a snap election in a bid to boost her party's slender majority at Westminster - a gamble which spectacularly backfired on the Conservative leader.

The Prime Minister had now 'lost all authority and credibility', Ms Sturgeon said.

She added: 'The damage the Tories have done to the stability and the reputation of the UK cannot be overstated.

'In less than a year they have caused chaos on an industrial scale.

Angus Robertson was ousted from Parliament by Conservative Douglas Ross and Salmond lost his seat of Gordon in Aberdeenshire to Tory Colin Clark.

Other prominent nationalists who lost their seats include Mike Weir who was defeated by Tory Kirstene Hair, and Tasmina Ahmed-Sheik who lost the Ochil and South Perthshire seat to Tory Luke Graham.

The success of Ms Davidson's Tories in Scotland is in stark contrast to the situation south of the border, where Theresa May has lost seats and is struggling to maintain her authority.

Ms Davidson said her party had enjoyed an 'historic night'. She told BBC Scotland: 'Indyref2 is dead, that's what we have seen tonight.'

Sturgeon refused to accept criticism over her party's losses, insisting it was Theresa May who took the biggest hit.

She told BBC Scotland: 'She [Mrs May] called an election clearly very arrogantly thinking she was going to crush the opposition, sweep everybody aside and cruise to a landslide majority.'

Ms Sturgeon added: 'I've always said the SNP would want to be part of a progressive alternative to a Tory government.

There was a wave of victories including a win for Douglas Ross (left) in Moray where he swept aside SNP depute leader Angus Robertson (right)

'I'm disappointed at the SNP losses but I'm pleased that we've won the election.

After losing his seat, Mr Salmond said: 'The SNP has lost a number of fine parliamentarians this evening, that is a grievous blow for us.

'But overall results show the SNP will win a majority of the seats in this country and a majority of the votes.'

The former nationalist leader, who was first elected as an MP 30 years ago in 1987, was defeated by Tory Colin Clark.

Mr Salmond vowed: 'You've not seen the last of my bonnet and me,' quoting a Jacobite song.

The SNP lost the first seat of the night north of the border to Labour, with Gerard Killen winning Rutherglen and Hamilton West with 19,101 votes, beating Margaret Ferrier who polled 18,836 votes.

Labour also won Glasgow North East from the nationalists, ousting Anne McLaughlin, and defeated the SNP in Midlothian and East Lothian.

Scottish Labour leader Kezia Dugdale told BBC Scotland, 'the reality is the SNP vote is crumbling in their urban heartlands'.

She added: 'I've got a few fantastic new generation of Labour MPs going down to the House of Commons next week.'

The success of Ms Davidson's Tories in Scotland is in stark contrast to the situation south of the border, where Theresa May (pictured today) has lost seats and is struggling to maintain her authority

SNP Westminster leader Angus Robertson was ousted from Parliament by Tory and football referee, Douglas Ross. The Conservative secured 22,637 votes, defeating Mr Robertson, who was the SNP's Westminster leader, on 18,478.

Pete Wishart, who was the chair of the Scottish Affairs Committee in the last parliament, held on to his Perth and North Perthshire seat by just 21 votes, with Tory MEP Ian Duncan coming close to ousting him.

Elsewhere, Ayr, Carrick and Cumnock, Renfrewshire East, Stirling and Berwickshire, Roxburgh and Selkirk also turned from yellow to blue.

In East Dunbartonshire, Liberal Democrat Jo Swinson regained the seat from the SNP's John Nicolson.

Ms Swinson had held the seat for a decade before being ousted by Mr Nicolson in 2015.

And the SNP also lost out in East Renfrewshire, this time to the Tories.

Paul Masterton took the constituency - which 20 years ago had been the safest Tory seat in Scotland - from the SNP's Kirsten Oswald.

The results came after an exit poll suggested the SNP could lose 22 seats across Scotland.

Conservative Scottish Secretary David Mundell told BBC Scotland: 'It's becoming increasingly clear the SNP bubble has burst.'

But in Paisley and Renfrewshire South, the SNP's Mhairi Black was re-elected with 16,964 votes - although the party's support in the seat fell by 10 per cent.

Ms Black became the youngest MP when she won the seat in 2015 at the age of 20, ousting then Labour shadow foreign secretary Douglas Alexander.

Gavin Newlands has held the neighbouring Paisley and Renfrewshire North seat for the SNP.

Conservative MSP Murdo Fraser saidit was an 'astonishing decline'.

The Scottish Tories enjoyed their best result in 25 years following a remarkable resurgence thanks to their staunch opposition to independence.

Under charismatic Scottish Tory leader Ruth Davidson the party has been enjoying a revival. Since 2001, the Tories have only held one seat in Scotland.

Any improvement at all would mark their best result since 1992 when it had 11 Scottish MPs. All were swept away in Labour's 1997 landslide.

Conquering Tory hero Ruth Davidson issues thinly-veiled attack on DUP over stance on gay rights as it is revealed the party's list of demands may include a soft Brexit

By Rory Tingle, Scott Campbell and Martin Robinson for MailOnline

Ruth Davidson has aimed a sideswipe at the Democratic Unionist Party over its opposition to gay marriage.

The Scottish Tory leader tweeted a link to a speech on gay pride she delivered in Belfast in a coded warning to Theresa May not to let the DUP, which is set to go into coalition with the Conservatives, push her to the right on social matters.

The Northern Irish party, which has 10 MPs, follows a stridently conservative social agenda that includes opposition to abortion and support for the death penalty.

Ruth Davidson has aimed a sideswipe at the Democratic Unionist Party over its opposition to gay marriage

The Scottish Tory leader tweeted a link to a speech on gay pride she delivered in Belfast in a coded warning to Theresa May not to let the DUP push her to the right on social matters

It has also been criticised by green activists for appointing climate change skeptic, Sammy Wilson, as Northern Ireland's environment minister.

Ruth Davidson tweeted: 'As a Protestant Unionist about to marry an Irish Catholic, here's the Amnesty Pride lecture I gave in Belfast..'

During the speech, Ms Davidson said: 'I am practicing Christian. I am a Protestant. I am a Unionist. I am Scottish and British.

DUP's leader was blown up and her father shot in the head by IRA More than 3,600 died in the Troubles as Catholic Irish militants seeking to unite the province with the Republic of Ireland faced off against the British Army and Protestant Loyalist paramilitaries, who wanted it to remain British. Arlene Foster has been feted as a member of a new generation of politicians who came to prominence after the peace. But even if she is two decades younger than outgoing leader Peter Robinson, a sidekick of firebrand party founder Ian Paisley, the conflict left deep scars. Foster's father, a member of the Royal Ulster Constabulary Police Reserve, was shot in the head by the IRA on the family farm when she was eight. She watched him come 'crawling into the house, blood streaming down his face,' she told the Sunday Tribune newspaper. He recovered and continued to serve in the police, but the family was forced to move. When she was 17 she survived an IRA bomb on her school bus which was being driven by a part-time soldier in the Ulster Defence Regiment, badly injuring the girl sitting next to her.

'I am engaged to a Catholic Irishwoman from county Wexford who was educated by nuns. For me, equal marriage isn't about one religion or county or community.'

The DUP supported leaving the EU, but is expected to push for a softer Brexit excluding a hard border with the Irish Republic and any new customs operations.

One red line is the idea of Northern Ireland being granted some sort of 'special status' when Brexit comes to pass.

The DUP will not stand for any arrangement that physically sets the region apart from anywhere else in the UK.

That includes suggestions that border, immigration and customs controls could be set up at ports and airports like Stranraer and Liverpool rather than in Belfast or Larne.

Another big price to pay for the party's support in Westminster could be the reinstatement of any EU subsidies that farmers lose when Brexit is a done deal worth about £350million a year.

Another set of funds doled out by Brussels could also be on Ms Foster's shopping list - about £400m of payments due over the next four years that go to community development and cross-border projects as part of a dividend for the peace process.

While the DUP, with its strong links to the business community in Northern Ireland, does not want to see the region set apart from the rest of Britain but it may also use its strong hand to push for a reduced corporation tax rate.

The Republic's 12.5 per cent rate has been a bone of contention at times, including with suggestions from some quarters that Dublin poached foreign investors considering locations north of the border.

The DUP manifesto also vows to oppose Tory plans to cut pensioner benefits such as the winter fuel allowance, for example.

With the DUP's newfound position as power brokers, its website crashed from the the surge in internet traffic.

Mrs Foster has hailed her party's influence that they will gain in their role as kingmakers.

Theresa May is pictured leaving Downing Street with her husband Philip to go to Buckingham Palace earlier today following the snap election result

But she warned that it would be 'difficult' for Mrs May to cling on after her humiliating defeat.

Speaking to BBC Radio Ulster, she remained tight-lipped about the prospects of the DUP supporting the Conservatives, but suggested Mrs May could have to go.

She said: 'Of course it's too soon to say what we're going to do yet. We need to see the final make-up of Parliament and then we'll reflect on that.

'I certainly think that there will be contact made over the weekend but I think it is too soon to talk about what we're going to do. I think we need to wait and see.'

Arlene Foster will not want to see any physical manifestation of the divide between the EU and the UK

Asked directly if she thought Mrs May would survive, she said: 'I don't know. I see that she's on her way back to London.

'I think that it will be difficult for her to survive, given that she was presumed at the start of the campaign – which seems an awfully long time ago now – to come back with over 100, maybe more, in terms of her majority.

'And now we're in the position we find ourselves in tonight, so it will be an incredibly difficult evening for her.'

====== 2247 ========

RUTH SUNDERLAND: GHOST OF ITS PRIVATE EQUITY PAST WILL STILL HAUNT DEBENHAMS THIS CHRISTMAS

Shoppers don't have to wait until the traditional Boxing Day sales to snap up a bargain at Debenhams.

They don't even have to wait until Black Friday, which takes place at the end of this week.

Although it makes a mockery of the name, Black Friday at Debenhams actually starts tomorrow, on a Tuesday, and runs for the rest of the week.

Troubled times: Although it makes a mockery of the name, Black Friday at Debenhams actually starts on Tuesday, and runs for the rest of the week

The near continual sales are an indication of just how desperate things have become for the department store group.

But for a real money-off shocker you need to look to the stock market, not the shop windows – because Debenhams' shares are being savaged. Its market value has plunged from £1.5 billion to less than £80m over the space of six years.

The next few weeks running up to Christmas will be make-or-break for the ailing chain, as one of the worst years in its 240-year history limps to a close.

Unless it can show signs of a definite recovery over the festive season and beyond, the future looks grim. It might well fall into the hands of Sports Direct tycoon Mike Ashley, who holds a large stake. That ignominious fate has already been suffered by House Of Fraser, which, like Debenhams, is a once-grand store now fallen low.

In the autumn, chairman Sir Ian Cheshire flatly denied suggestions that Debs is heading towards insolvency and that it has been looking at a company voluntary agreement, or CVA, a procedure that would allow it to continue trading while shedding its debts and pension fund obligations. Nonetheless, the situation is dire.

True, it is pretty awful for traditional retailers across the board, due to high business rates and online competition. Consumers' urge to shop has been quashed by a squeeze on incomes and it may be hit by a fall in confidence due to Brexit chaos.

Even so, Debenhams is in a particularly bad way. Much of the blame for that lies in the fact it has never recovered from a very damaging period of private equity ownership more than a decade ago.

The private equity gang have long since fled the scene, having made three times what they put in. They left a toxic legacy that is still hurting Debs to this day.

Shockingly, the chain wrote off £300m relating to that era as recently as this autumn, when it reported the worst loss in its history. From 2003 to 2006, under the control of CVC Capital Partners, Merrill Lynch and TPG Capital, Debs was loaded with debt, costs were slashed to the bone, investment in stores was cut and the brand was cheapened. The three firms were able to start cashing out through a stock market float in 2006 at 195p a share. Investors now can only dream of that kind of price. Shares are down more than 80 per cent this year and currently stand at just under 7p.

What now? Well, chief executive Sergio Bucher is closing a third of the 166 stores. He wants to reduce the debt burden, which, at more than £320m, dwarfs the company's market value, and is trying to win back customers. He faces an uphill task.

Debenhams is not the only firm to be hollowed out by private equity, but it is one of the worst examples in this country. It should be taught at business schools as a test case of how a perfectly decent firm can be bled dry by rapacious vulture capitalists, leaving shoppers, employees, shareholders and taxpayers to live with the consequences.

The ghost of its private equity past will still haunt Debenhams this Christmas.

====== 2248 ========

DOMINIC SANDBROOK: EVEN THE IRON LADY WOULDN'T HAVE GOT A BETTER DEAL

For me, the most revealing moment of this week's disgraceful political melodrama was not anything Theresa May said to the cameras or in the Commons. It was a brief aside, overheard by a political journalist on Thursday afternoon outside the Palace of Westminster.

Jacob Rees-Mogg had just finished speaking to the Press after publishing his letter of no confidence in the Prime Minister. And as the journalists crowded round, his manservant, the Tory MP Steve Baker, tried to pull his master away.

'Come on Jacob,' he muttered. 'I know you love it.'

Mr Baker probably thought nobody was listening. But Channel 4's Michael Crick heard him. And I am glad he did, because that remark perfectly captures the contemptible irresponsibility that has seized sections of the Conservative Party in the past few days.

'I know you love it.' They should put up a plaque with those words outside the Palace of Westminster, as a warning to future parliamentarians.

Theresa May, pictured outside Downing Street, said in 2016: 'What the Government does isn't a game. It's a serious business that has real consequences for people's lives'

Our country is contemplating the greatest constitutional crisis since World War II. Our entire economic future is uncertain.

Our business leaders are paralysed by uncertainty; our relationship with our closest neighbours hangs in the balance; even the integrity of our united kingdom seems perilously fragile.

The stakes, in other words, could not be higher. But Mr Rees-Mogg is enjoying himself.

It is all just a game to him, as it is to so many of the opponents of Mrs May who have taken to the airwaves in recent days. He is loving it. And that, I think, says it all.

Two years ago, during the chaotic, back-stabbing campaign to succeed David Cameron after the EU Referendum, I wrote in the Mail that Westminster had succumbed to 'a belief in the importance of individual ambition; a childish thirst for melodramatic grandstanding; and a deep sense of narcissism, with the fate of the nation too often wrapped up in the advance of one man's career'.

At the time, only one contender struck me as having the pragmatism, maturity and integrity to handle the colossal challenge of negotiating our exit from the EU. That person was Theresa May.

For as she said at the time: 'What the Government does isn't a game. It's a serious business that has real consequences for people's lives.'

She was right then, and she is right now. And she deserves far, far better than to be betrayed by posturing ministers such as Dominic Raab and Esther McVey.

Yes, Mrs May's deal is less than perfect. She admits as much herself. But did anyone really think that she would return from Brussels with the perfect deal? Did any sane person really believe the EU would give us everything we wanted?

Did they really believe that the Irish would miraculously drop their insistence on a soft border with Northern Ireland? Did anyone really believe the ultra-Brexiteers' nonsensical claims that Germany's car manufacturers would somehow 'force' Angela Merkel to cave in?

There are, of course, conspiracy theorists who think Mrs May deliberately plotted to get a bad deal for this country. Similarly, some of her critics claim that some other Prime Minister would have got a better deal — though what that deal would be, and crucially, why the EU would accept it, they never quite specify.

Still, let's pretend they are right. Let's pretend that Boris Johnson, such a risible failure as Foreign Secretary, or David Davis, such a drab ineffectual Brexit Secretary, would have got a miraculously better deal.

Even if that were the case — and it isn't — the plain fact is that this is the only deal on the table. The EU have already indicated that they will not contemplate a major renegotiation. Though there might, just might, be tiny concessions to be granted as the cliff edge begins to crumble beneath their feet, there is absolutely no reason to believe they are bluffing. All the time, the clock is ticking. At 11pm on March 29, Britain will leave the EU. If we do so without a deal, then almost all economists, business leaders and civil servants agree that the consequences will be disastrous.

They might be wrong, of course. But when so many people's livelihoods depend on it, what sane person wants to take that gamble?

Jacob Rees-Mogg (pictured) and his cronies may welcome the prospect of a no-deal Brexit. But they are precisely the people who claimed that the EU would roll over in the negotiations

In reality, the pygmies sniping at Mrs May care little for Britain's future. They are much more interested in their own political future.

The prime exhibit is her former Brexit Secretary, Dominic Raab, who flounced out of her Cabinet on Thursday morning. He handed in his notice just in time to make the breakfast news bulletins and ignite his leadership campaign.

In his resignation statement, Mr Raab set out two objections to Mrs May's deal. First, he dislikes the fact that it envisages a slightly different regulatory regime in Northern Ireland. Second, he is displeased that the so-called backstop arrangement, which we might not need, makes it impossible for us to leave the customs union without the EU's agreement.

As it happens, I'm not delighted about these things either. I doubt anybody is. So I eagerly read on to see Mr Raab's alternative.

And what do you know? There wasn't one. Not even the slightest hint of one. The reason is that a plausible, realistic alternative — which means one that the EU will accept — just does not exist.

In an ideal world, the EU would have rolled over. They would have ignored the complaints of the Republic of Ireland, waived all future British payments into their budget, allowed us bespoke access to the single market and allowed us to strike our own trade deals with whoever we liked. But we do not live in an ideal world. For in an ideal world, the EU would never have come into existence.

A single supranational entity covering the entire European continent, it represents everything that British policymakers have tried to avoid for centuries. We fought against the Spanish empire of Philip II, the French empires of Louis XIV and Napoleon, the German empires of Kaiser Wilhelm II and Adolf Hitler precisely because we hated the thought of a single power controlling Western Europe.

But when France and Germany came together in the early Fifties, there was not much we could do about it. At first we tried to ignore it. Then we formed our own rival free trade association, EFTA, which was a complete flop.

In 1960, Harold Macmillan wrote in his diary that we faced a 'grim choice' of joining the Common Market, or allowing it to become 'a boastful, powerful 'Empire of Charlemagne', now under French but later bound to come under German control'.

He chose the former, although Charles de Gaulle vetoed British entry in 1963 and we had to wait another ten years.

What Macmillan realised, and what all his successors have had to face, is that we cannot simply wish the EU away.

Even the late Margaret Thatcher, the Brexiteers' heroine, knew that. She was a pragmatist to her fingertips, not a posturing bomb-thrower.

That was why, during the first European referendum in 1975, she campaigned to Remain, even wearing a jumper bedecked with the flags of the European member states. And although she won a handsome budget rebate for Britain in the early Eighties, as Prime Minister she never took us out. Quite the reverse: it was Mrs Thatcher who pushed hardest for the creation of the single market, which we are about to leave.

As it is well known, she later changed her mind, becoming a staunch Eurosceptic after she left office. But given her record of pragmatism and — yes! — compromise, I have no doubt she would have recoiled from the strutting antics of Mr Rees-Mogg and his associates.

Don't get me wrong: none of this means I think we should betray the result of the 2016 referendum.

Theresa May, pictured giving a press conference at Downing Street on Thursday, has faced a week of political drama with ministerial resignations and a plot to unseat her as party leader

A second referendum would be profoundly undemocratic, socially damaging and an unforgivable insult to the 17.4 million who voted Leave.

But to pretend, after all these long months of talks, that we can leave entirely on our own terms is simply deceitful. Did you ever hear of a divorce settlement in which one partner got everything and the other nothing? The basic reality is that leaving the EU was always going to be a trade-off. In a world in which the EU exists, we have to weigh up competing priorities. If we were only interested in money, it would probably have been better to stay in. If we were only interested in sovereignty, it would be better to crash out.

But most normal, sane people —by which I do not mean people who parade through London demanding a second referendum, mutter darkly about Mrs May's treachery, stage preening press conferences at Westminster and time their resignations for personal advantage — want a bit of both. We want more national sovereignty — for example, over our borders — but we don't want to crash our economy into the gutter. We want to be able to strike trade deals to suit ourselves, but we don't want our businesses to lose their crucial EU supply chains.

And that, more or less, is what Mrs May's deal represents. Is it perfect? No. Is it pragmatic, in the best traditions of the Conservative Party? Yes.

Would Mrs Thatcher have got a better deal? I don't think so. She might have made more of a fuss, swung her handbag around and made better speeches. And she might have done a better job of selling it.

But not even the Iron Lady would have been able to change the basic facts of political life. She would have compromised; she almost always did.

And here are the really crucial questions. Is there a better deal on the table? Would it be possible to get a new deal before March? Is it plausible that the EU would give us such a deal? Is it really worth risking the chaos of crashing out without a deal?

My answers are no, no, no and definitely not.

Mr Rees-Mogg and his cronies may welcome the prospect of a no-deal Brexit. But they are precisely the people who claimed that the EU would roll over in the negotiations. They were wrong then. Why should they be right this time?

In reality, a no-deal Brexit would be an economic and political calamity worse than the Winter of Discontent in the Seventies, worse than the three-day week and potentially even more damaging than the Great Depression.

A chaotic Brexit would also risk handing power to Jeremy Corbyn and John McDonnell, who would seize the chance to send Britain lurching to the far Left, with horrific and irreparable consequences for millions of ordinary families, as well as for our global reputation, international allies and the future of our economy.

Does Mr Rees-Mogg want Jeremy Corbyn destroying our Armed Forces? Does Ms McVey want John McDonnell disarming our police? Does Mr Raab want John McDonnell renationalising everything in sight?

Are they really so arrogant, so narcissistic, that they would inflict a Corbyn government on Middle Britain? I cannot believe it.

Whatever you think of Mrs May's deal, a woman who has served the country with such conspicuous commitment, integrity and sense of duty deserves better than to be betrayed by a moral degenerate like Boris Johnson, an intellectual vacuum like Esther McVey or a preening mountebank like Jacob Rees-Mogg.

I doubt that Mrs May has enjoyed the past few days, mind you. But she is not in politics to enjoy herself. For unlike Mr Rees-Mogg, she knows that it is not a game.

====== 2249 ========

LAWSON: THINK TRUMP IS A DISGRACE? LOOK AT EUROPE'S 'PRESIDENT'!

The President of the United States is typically described as the ‘leader of the free world’.

It’s not an official title, but encompasses the sense that the President represents all of us in this country as fellow members of the club of Western democracies and the alliance that, through force of arms, preserved freedom and liberty on the continent of Europe.

So you didn’t have to be a U.S. citizen to feel profoundly offended by Donald Trump’s decision to cancel his attendance at a ceremony on Saturday to honour the Americans who gave their lives in World War I.

Trump is seen right being welcomed by French President Emmanuel Macron (left) at the Elysee Palace in Paris on Saturday

The White House blamed the torrential rain which allegedly provided an insuperable obstacle for the Presidential helicopter. But in such circumstances there is always a contingency travel plan — and the Aisne-Marne military cemetery, where 2,289 U.S. soldiers are buried, is only 50 miles from where the President was staying for his trip to France.

Sir Nicholas Soames, Sir Winston Churchill’s grandson, furiously observed: ‘They died with their face to the foe, and that pathetic inadequate Donald Trump couldn’t even defy the weather to pay his respects.’ And it does seem that the President’s main concern — not for the first time — was his hair.

Sir Winston Churchill’s grandson, Sir Nicholas Soames, was furious at Trump's snub

Ultimate

At a rally just hours after the massacre of 11 American Jews at a Pittsburgh synagogue a fortnight ago, Donald Trump complained that his hair had got ‘ruined’ by the rain as he answered questions about this anti-Semitic atrocity.

‘I was standing under the wing of Air Force One during a news conference earlier this morning, a very unfortunate news conference, and the wind was blowing and the rain, and I was soaking wet and that’s what I ended up with today.’

So whether it’s Jews being butchered on American soil, or the ultimate sacrifice made by young Americans on French soil, Trump’s deepest concern is not for the dead, their families and their nation, but his own ridiculous hair.

It is simultaneously both astonishing and unsurprising. And he will get away with it. After all, he got away with traducing the military valour of the late John McCain, the former Republican presidential candidate and one of Trump’s most forceful critics within the party.

McCain had been badly injured when, as a naval aviator during the Vietnam war, he crashed on his 23rd bombing mission. This admiral’s son was seized and tortured by the North Vietnamese. He endured this for five years, refusing to be released before any of his captured colleagues, even though it had been offered (for propaganda purposes) by his captors.

Former Presidential candidate John McCain during his days serving in the US Air Force

The picture (above) was shared with this post by McCain's daughter Meghan

But Trump ridiculed this, saying of McCain: ‘He’s not a war hero. He’s a war hero because he was captured? I like people who weren’t captured.’

And what of Trump’s Vietnam war record? He never served, having gained five deferments, one of them for calcium build-ups — bone spurs — in his heel.

Asked about this in 2015, Trump said he couldn’t remember which heel (left, right, or both) had been affected, though he insisted: ‘You know, it was difficult from the long-term walking standpoint.’ But not so difficult that he couldn’t enjoy his golf, squash and tennis at Wharton School, where he was studying real estate at the time.

If you are British, you might be thinking: thank goodness such a man is not our president, and how fortunate it is that our own head of state is Her Majesty the Queen, who was yesterday at the Cenotaph in Whitehall for our national tribute to the fallen.

Yet we do — for the time being — have our own President (although we don’t elect him). His name is Jean-Claude Juncker. He is the President of the European Commission, chosen in 2014 for this vital role at the pinnacle of the European Union over the furious objections of the then British Prime Minister David Cameron.

An umbrella is held over the head of European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker (right) as he stands with President of Portugal Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa (left), Spanish King Felipe VI (centre) at the international ceremony for the Centenary of the WWI Armistice of 11 November 1918 at the Arc de Triomphe, in Paris

Cameron had already committed to holding an in-or-out referendum on Britain’s membership of the EU: he knew the appointment of the ardent Euro-federalist Juncker would make it much harder to persuade the British people to remain reconciled to membership.

For the secretive Luxembourger (whose peculiar relationship with that nation’s security and intelligence services eventually cost him his job as Prime Minister of the Grand Duchy) epitomises the opaque and undemocratic methods which characterise EU policy-making at their worst.

Cynically

Actually, he revels in it. Thus, on the EU’s monetary policy, Juncker declared: ‘I’m ready to be insulted for being insufficiently democratic … but I am for secret, dark debates.’ On the British calls for a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty, he observed: ‘Of course there will be transfers of sovereignty. But would I be intelligent to draw the attention of public opinion to this fact?’

And when referendums had been called by some EU nations over what was then called the EU Constitution (the plan to turn the organisation into a nascent federal state), Juncker cynically remarked: ‘If it’s a Yes, we will say “On we go”, and if it’s a No we will say “We continue”.’

The then Labour MP Gisela Stuart was one of the Westminster parliamentarians on the committee drafting the European Constitution. Stuart — who was born and brought up in Germany — told me it was this experience which persuaded her that Britain’s long-term future could not be within such a body. She later became one of the leaders of the Brexit campaign.

Gisela Stuart stood down as Labour MP forBirmingham, Edgbaston, last year - shortly after successfully campaigning for Britain to leave the EU

Specifically, she described to me how whenever she or one of her colleagues had put in clauses with the purpose of bringing EU institutions more under the control of national electorates, they would always be mysteriously struck out at the last minute.

She realised then that this was a movement with contempt for the idea of full accountability: that they believed in change being driven by the top down, rather than from the people upwards. The latter is the legacy of Magna Carta and of British and U.S. common law — so different from the Napoleonic code in which the power of the state over the individual is much more entrenched.

Whatever you think of the society which produced Donald Trump as President, the U.S. is, at every level locally, driven by an intense belief in democratic answerability.

Outrage

It is a remarkably transparent system, which is the essential element in accountability. The extent to which its citizens are engaged in the decisions which shape their lives is part of what has made it such a vibrant society — and a model for those who seek freedom.

Compare this with the events of a few months ago in Brussels, where, in complete secrecy, Juncker managed to put his political adviser, Martin Selmayr (a 47-year-old German workaholic, fanatically dedicated to the creation of a federal Pan-European state) in charge of the entire workings of the European Commission.

No one even knew there was a vacancy for the job of Secretary General of the Commission, but the man in that job was persuaded to step down in favour of Selmayr — known as the ‘Monster of the Berlaymont’ (a reference to the way he terrorises those working in the Commission’s headquarters).

This caused such outrage in the European Parliament that an ombudsman, Emily O’Reilly, was asked to investigate. Her report was scathing, accusing Juncker and Selmayr of multiple acts of maladmin-istration. But, needless to say, they were allowed to carry on as before. Or to quote Juncker: ‘If it’s a no, we continue.’

We are now seeing the same process with the move towards a European Army, which the British people were told would never happen by the Remain campaign during the 2016 referendum, but which is now clearly the next stage of the grand plan, according to the French President Emmanuel Macron.

French President Emmanuel Macron (L) welcomes President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker (R) at the Elysee Palace ahead of the ceremony

You might have seen Macron on TV in the company of President Juncker at yesterday’s commemorations of the war dead — as if Juncker had the same status as the elected President of a country which actually lost 5 per cent of its population in that terrible war.

I’m glad that this notoriously bibulous figure — at one and the same time both ridiculous and slightly sinister — will not be representing us for much longer. And nor will any possible replacement once we leave the EU.

As for Trump, although he turned up to speak yesterday at another memorial in France, the ceremonies at Aisne-Marne were made more dignified by his absence.

====== 2250 ========

PUTIN'S TAKING OVER LIBYA IN ORDER TO POINT A NEW WEAPON AT THE WEST, WRITES MICHAEL BURLEIGH

So bloody and extensive is President Putin’s record of aggression, not least in Syria and Ukraine, that an incursion into the empty deserts of North Africa might hardly seem worth noting.

Yet the discovery that Russia is moving troops and missiles into war-torn Libya has rightly caused alarms to sound throughout the capitals of Europe.

It is a step of huge significance, and one with potentially disastrous results for Western nations.

The discovery that Vladimir Putin, above, and his government is moving troops and missiles into war-torn Libya has rightly caused alarm. Russia – this time in the form of Rosneft, the huge oil company controlled by Putin’s sinister crony Igor Sechin – is interested in a slice of Libya’s vast oil reserves, the largest in Africa

Libya has both oil and Mediterranean ports, and Russia is hungry for both – cause enough for concern, perhaps.

Yet the real fear for European governments is this: Libya, with its porous southern borders, has become the main jumping-off point for the hundreds of thousands of African migrants now seeking to cross the Mediterranean to the shores of the EU and, in particular, Italy.

More than half a million adults and children from Ghana, Senegal, Kenya and Nigeria, as well as war-ravaged Eritrea and Somalia, have made the perilous voyage in the last five years, the human cargo in a £6 billion-a-year trade more lucrative and less risky than smuggling drugs.

Contractors have also been seen in eastern Libya, near the border with Egypt, where they have been defending critical oil wells against Libya’s many armed militias. They have also been training Libyan troops and providing intelligence for the Libyan army

Now, by establishing military bases in the port cities of Tobruk and Benghazi, Putin has raised the nightmare prospect that Moscow could soon take control of that migrant flow, turning it on and off like a tap. And that means threatening European governments who oppose him with outright political chaos in reply.

The Russian presence in Libya has been building for months. In the port cities, it comes in the shape of private military companies such as the Wagner and RSB groups, tough-guy contractors who, while not formally part of the Russian army, nonetheless work closely with Putin’s paramilitary GRU.

These contractors have also been seen in eastern Libya, near the border with Egypt, where they have been defending critical oil wells against Libya’s many armed militias. They have also been training Libyan troops and providing intelligence for the Libyan army.

Libyan Red Crescent rescue workers carry the body of a drowned migrant on a beach after it was washed up in Tajoura, near Tripoli, the capital, earlier this year. It was Gaddafi’s sudden removal in 2011 – thanks to a vainglorious attempt at regime change – that established Libya as the number one staging post for migrants from sub-Saharan Africa

Earlier this year, the Tunisian authorities took possession of a ship flying the Panamanian flag which was found to be carrying 24 containers of Russian military equipment and 66 Russian military transport vehicles. The ship was bound for Libya.

There are also plausible reports that Russian missile systems – thought to include the Kalibr anti-ship missiles and S-300 air defence missiles – are now established on Libyan soil.

Russia even has a tame Libyan warlord with his own ‘National Army’. Putin has for some time been cultivating 75-year-old Field Marshal Khalifa Haftar (a naturalised American who, after helping put Colonel Gaddafi in power in 1969, eventually fled to the US after the two men fell out).

Today, he is the main recipient of Russian arms and money, including notes printed on Moscow presses.

This is not the first time that Libyan migration has been used as a threat. In 2010, Gaddafi notoriously told then Italian premier Silvio Berlusconi that he could ‘turn Europe black’ by simply deciding to loosen his control of the Mediterranean coastline.

Libyan forces loyal to the Government of National Accord guard from a position south of Tripoli, Libya, last month. At the same time it announced end of fights on the outskirts of Tripoli after the withdrawal of the fighters of Misrata, east of the capital

‘What will be the reaction of the white and Christian Europeans faced with this influx of starving and ignorant Africans?’ asked the dictator. ‘We don’t know if Europe will remain an advanced and united Continent or if it will be destroyed, as happened with the barbarian invasions.’

To demonstrate his power, Gaddafi then ‘encouraged’ tribal people smugglers in Libya’s wild southwest with a £4 million bribe to focus on exporting fuel and flour southwards, rather than moving migrants northwards towards Europe. It worked.

Indeed, it was Gaddafi’s sudden removal in 2011 – thanks to America, Britain and France’s vainglorious attempt at regime change – that established Libya as the number one staging post for migrants from sub-Saharan Africa.

If Gaddafi’s main aim was survival, Putin has a more expansive game to play, one that he hopes means a restoration of the power and influence that Russia enjoyed before the abject humiliation of the 1990s. First, there are the diplomatic objectives. Putin wants to boost his military presence on the EU’s southern border.

Muammar Al Gaddafi in 1996. If Gaddafi’s main aim was survival, Putin has a more expansive game to play, one that he hopes means a restoration of the power and influence that Russia enjoyed before the abject humiliation of the 1990s [File photo]

Nato, he feels, has been encircling Russia, now he intends to give Europe a taste of its own medicine by establishing an emphatic presence in the Med. His navy has at present only one Mediterranean base, at Tartus in Syria. Another near Benghazi – less than 300 miles from southern Italy – would be a major statement of Russian sea power.

Serious money is a motive, too. Russia – this time in the form of Rosneft, the huge oil company controlled by Putin’s sinister crony Igor Sechin – is interested in a slice of Libya’s vast oil reserves, the largest in Africa.

Libya currently produces about 700,000 barrels of oil per day, but the country could increase its output to 2.5 million if peace were eventually established.

Down the line, a continued Russian presence means Moscow would be in pole position to win lucrative contracts to rebuild the country’s shattered infrastructure and, of course, to gain a hugely profitable market for arms sales.

Aside from oil and gas, weapons are one of the few Russian products in demand from other nations. Russia had huge business interests with Gaddafi’s Libya and lost around $10 billion in oil and other contracts – including $3 billion for a railway project and a $4 billion arms deal – when he was deposed.

Part of Putin’s drive is his continuing fury at the Western military intervention that brought chaos to the Middle East and damaged Russian interests in the process.

Today, the Russian President is conspicuously helping stick the pieces back together. Moscow is involved in international talks regarding the futures of Afghanistan and Syria. It would like to present itself as the saviour of Libya, too.

Putin has established himself as a go-to man for the Middle East, so potentates from King Abdullah of Jordan and King Salman of Saudi Arabia to Israel’s President Netanyahu and Iran’s President Rouhani, visit the Kremlin to pay assiduous court.

Down the line, a continued Russian presence means Moscow would be in pole position to win lucrative contracts to rebuild the country’s shattered infrastructure and, of course, to gain a hugely profitable market for arms sales

Trump, it is worth noting, is yet to appoint ambassadors to Saudi Arabia or to Turkey, let alone to Libya.

On a more personal note, Putin was alarmed at the horrific fate of his fellow leader: after a six-month Nato bombing campaign, Gaddafi was shot in the head in a roadside culvert with a bayonet rammed into his backside.

Or as Russian officials put it, he was killed ‘like a mangy old cur’. That is not, presumably, how the Russian President thinks regional strong men should be treated.

Above all else, however, Putin is an opportunist. He seeks not just the lifting of sanctions against his country, but the continued destabilisation of Europe, which is why he has so avidly supported its separatist and nationalist parties. It remains a hugely successful tactic. The West, meanwhile, after years of diplomatic ineptitude and catastrophically wrong-headed intervention, seems unable to muster a response.

Should we co-operate with Russia and with other world powers to rebuild the shattered Libyan state? Might that at least help rein Putin in, however distasteful a partner he might seem? It is a dilemma we must now face.

Today, through a combination of Italian bribery and diplomacy, the Libyan coastline is at least partially secured.

But if, tomorrow, Russia really does seize control of the Libyan state and its vast reservoir of desperate migrants – one of the great destabilising forces facing Europe – the prospect for us all is terrifying indeed.

====== 2251 ========

AFTER LABOUR'S POLICY BLITZ, JACK DOYLE ANALYSES THE PARTY'S 'CAR-CRASH' MANIFESTO

Forced redistribution of shares, nationalisation of industry, the abolition of free schools and a holiday home tax simply cannot work.

Here Jack Doyle outlines why in his analysis of Jeremy Corbyn's car crash Labour manifesto.

Share ownership

British firms with more than 250 staff would be forced to hand over 10 per cent of their value to staff.

Why it won’t work: It will destroy the value of major UK firms, discourage investment and hammer pension funds. It could lead to cuts in wages and benefits as firms try to save money, and because the rule does not apply to foreign firms, it could encourage companies to leave. Hidden in the small print are plans for billions to go to the State as a ‘social dividend’, otherwise known as a tax.

Under Labour British firms with more than 250 staff would be forced to hand over 10 per cent of their value to staff

Nationalise water industry

All the major water companies would be taken back into State ownership and company bosses sacked.

Why it won’t work: Put aside the major questions about how shadow chancellor John McDonnell can nationalise the £90 billion water industry for next to nothing, as he claims, and the catastrophic signal that would send to investors. The idea of putting major firms in the control of councils and unions is a recipe for sclerotic 1970s inefficiency.

Abolish free schools and stop new academies

Free schools, which are allowed to operate independently, would be brought under the control of town halls. The academy programme, first set up by Tony Blair, would be frozen.

Why it won’t work: Why abolish a successful programme? The end of new academies marks a decisive break from a flagship Blairite reform.

New renters’ unions and rent controls

Shadow housing minister John Healey said Labour would spend £20 million on setting up ‘renters’ unions’ so tenants can ‘organise to defend their rights’ and cap rents that private landlords can charge.

Why it won’t work: The Tories point out membership of the German tenants’ union costs the equivalent of £100 a year, and it is far from clear how a union can influence private decisions between renters and landlords. Rent controls discourage landlords from letting out property and reduce investment in housing stock, ultimately pushing prices up.

Free schools, which are allowed to operate independently, would be brought under the control of town halls. The academy programme, first set up by Tony Blair, would be frozen

Holiday home tax

Owners of holiday homes would be hit with an annual tax of £3,000.

Why it won’t work: What qualifies as a holiday home? How do you measure when they are occupied? What if they are let out? The bureaucratic hurdles to such a policy and the difficulties in collecting the tax are unlikely to exceed the amount collected.

Maximum pay ratios

Mr McDonnell floated a 20:1 maximum pay ratio for all firms bidding for State contracts and hinted he could extend it across the private sector.

Why it won’t work: A maximum pay ratio would make it next to impossible for firms to hire top overseas and international talent, land would destroy the Premier League overnight, as football clubs would be forced to cap stars’ pay.

Labour could scrap Universal Credit. Abandoning Universal Credit would be hugely expensive and risks undermining Britain’s booming jobs market

Universal Credit

Labour would launch a year-long review of the benefits system and could scrap Universal Credit.

Why it won’t work: Abandoning Universal Credit would be hugely expensive and risks undermining Britain’s booming jobs market.

Re-nationalise railways

Franchises will be returned to State control.

Why it won’t work: However unreliable the railways are – largely due to Mr McDonnell’s friends in the militant rail unions – a return to the days of British Rail will only be worse.

Re-nationalise Royal Mail

Return Royal Mail to State ownership.

Why it won’t work: As with all Mr McDonnell’s nationalisation projects, there’s no suggestion of how he’s going to pay for it. Could he try to take control without paying compensation? Or theft, as it’s also known.

====== 2252 ========

MELISSA KITE: I TOOK ADVANTAGE OF MPS TO GET AHEAD

Melissa Kite admits flirting shamelessly with male MPs to get stories

This one goes out to all the male MPs I’ve taken to lunch. I want to apologise to each and every one of you.

Some of you know who you are and what went on. Some of you were so tipsy you may not have been fully aware of how shockingly you were being exploited.

I estimate there are dozens, if not hundreds, of you whom I’ve taken to lunch, dinner and drinks during my time as a political correspondent.

In dark bars and expensive restaurants, or just casually in Commons corridors, I’ve sidled up to you in a designer outfit and pretty much said: ‘Howdy, right honourable!’

Look, it was a long time ago and I’m practically an old lady now, in media years. I’ve no need to keep up the pretence that I was a blameless naïf in my 20s and 30s when I was an ambitious young lobby hack. I want to make my confession. I want to explain why I did it.

I took advantage of men to get ahead and because I enjoyed it. And, yes, Michael Fallon was one of them.

He and I used to book our party conference dinners months in advance. I looked forward to them as a highlight because I knew the gossip would be flowing as freely as the wine. I would book the best place in town, turn up in a smart outfit and grab hold of Mr Fallon on arrival, covering him in mwah mwahs.

I don’t remember him overstepping the mark, but I’m pretty sure, as the conversation ploughed ever more satisfyingly into the more intriguing business matters of the Tory Party... yes, I’m fairly sure that at some point, or more than one point, I ever so slightly gave him the come-on.

Oh dear, where did it all go wrong? When did I turn into this predatory monster?

Well, I suppose it was a dream come true to become a lobby correspondent, one of the first female political hacks when I started work at Westminster back in the early Noughties.

It wasn’t long before I began to take MPs and ministers out to lunch, as all lobby hacks do. I remember one Budget day, I entertained a junior minister who leaned across the table and said: ‘Does power turn you on? Is that why you came into politics? Is it a sexual thing with you?’

I confess I said: ‘Yes, that’s right.’ And he leaked a controversial government policy, which made the front page.

Then there was the poor MP who shut himself up in a cupboard with me. I went to lunch with him because a friend said he was single and looking for a wife. I admit it, I thought, if he’s feeling romantic, I’ll get even better gossip out of him.

I took advantage of men to get ahead and because I enjoyed it. And, yes, Michael Fallon (pictured) was one of them.

When he showed me the cupboard where the suffragette hid I thought I might have got myself in a jam, but I managed to squeeze past him and get out. I’ve since found out he showed that cupboard to all the female hacks. I feel cheated.

Look, what I’m saying is, women are not always passive victims. I certainly wasn’t. I enjoyed the charged atmosphere of politics. I thrived on it as well as the men did; more than some of them maybe.

I won’t make excuses for real assault or harassment, but I’m not comfortable with the current narrative which casts all women as helpless. This is setting our cause back light years.

Take me and Mr Fallon. Let me spell it out. As he was an MP and I was a journalist, he knew things I didn’t and I knew things he didn’t.

Between us, we had more pieces of the puzzle than we had alone. To people who trade in information, that is a very exciting proposition. Quid pro quo, Clarice. Only the way I remember it, I was the Hannibal Lecter of the piece. I recall one year at Tory conference, I spent an entire evening gnawing Mr Fallon’s ear off about some career problems I was having.

He was the perfect gentleman, saying all the right things. I’m sorry I did that now, because according to the current analysis, telling him my personal story late at night was manipulative, a form of harassment.

Michael Fallon, for all the times I may have touched your knee while drunk, I’m sorry.

Did I go further with others? Oh dear, I think I did. I was young and insecure, chippy, worried about making my mark. And I was still thinking that some day my prince would come. So I kissed a few frogs at Westminster, thinking maybe, just maybe, I’d marry an MP.

It was my workplace, after all, and your workplace is where you meet people. I, like the MPs, spent long hours at Westminster, barely having a life anywhere else.

I think a few fell for me. An elderly peer, now deceased, wrote me a long love letter in green ink. He was a dear man and lonely. There were a lot of bored men trapped in London with nothing to do in the evening. I was glad to cheer them up with a flirty dinner, if they were happy to leak some information of public interest, which they usually were.

I kissed a few frogs at Westminster, thinking maybe, just maybe, I’d marry an MP

I like to think I was a good host. The worst insult I can imagine is they found me dull. I don’t ever remember feeling exploited. But it strikes me now that these men might. After all, I cosied up to them, batted my eyelids, wore the right outfit.

‘Wear the black dress,’ one chap would say to me before lunch. And sometimes, if I was feeling generous, I wore it.

If he had put his hands on me, I would have sent him home to his wife limping. But he didn’t. He behaved just fine.

One MP asked me to marry him and I turned him down. There was a peer I chased relentlessly, having fallen hopelessly in love. He turned me down. But that is another story.

There can be no excuse for genuine harassment and abuse. But flirting? Flirting makes the world go round. Well, it made my world go round anyway.

====== 2253 ========

ESTHER RANTZEN HAS TWO MORE GRANDCHILDREN

The girls felt so fragile I hardly dared hold them, balancing them carefully in my arms. Florence and Romilley, aged just 10 days

Last week I was introduced to Florence and Romilly Wilcox when they were just a few hours old.

Kelly, their mother, looked exhausted, happy and rightly thrilled that she had produced twins, each weighing well over 6lbs.

Joshua — their father and my son — looked as proud as if he’d given birth himself. And I, their grandmother, was overawed. I’d forgotten that brand new babies are such tiny scraps of life, utterly dependent.

The girls felt so fragile I hardly dared hold them, balancing them carefully in my arms.

My first granddaughters. To my eyes they are already beautiful with their mist of blonde hair, tiny upturned noses and skin like rose petals.

I cannot wait to watch them grow and turn into individual characters, to introduce them to the songs my grandmother sang me, to read the poems my mother read to me. What luck. What a privilege to be a grandmother.

At the age of 77 I am beginning to face the truth — I am not immortal after all and my future is limited. If I’m lucky I could have another 20 years, but I will have to be extraordinarily fortunate to remain as active and healthy as I am now.

So what gives me hope in the future — however long that is — is this sudden gift of grandchildren.

I came quite late to the grandmother club. I was well into my 70s when my daughter Rebecca presented me with my first grandson, Benji, who’s now five.

I’d spent years watching friends turning into gooey, sentimental grannies, forever showing me their latest photos and telling me anecdotes about the toddler geniuses in their family.

At the age of 77 I am beginning to face the truth — I am not immortal after all and my future is limited

I smiled graciously, and tried to be tolerant, all the while telling myself this would never happen to me. How wrong I was. I am now the most sentimental and gooey grandparent of the lot.

Before Florence and Romilly arrived I already had three grandsons. One of them, Teddy, aged two, is now the twins’ big brother. He approaches them gingerly, and his tenderness makes us all applaud.

He has a smile as golden as sunshine. He calls me ‘Etta’ and loves putting me on the naughty step — and ‘releasing’ me with kisses.

Before Florence and Romilly arrived I already had three grandsons. One of them, Teddy, aged two (right), is now the twins’ big brother. He approaches them gingerly, and his tenderness makes us all applaud

The twins and Teddy live over 200 miles away, in the West Country, where I spent ten fabulous days trying to be helpful, but really just loving being with the new members of the family.

As well as Benji, my daughter Rebecca gave me another grandson, Xander, who’s two, and they live close enough for me to see them regularly. After Benji was born, when a friend asked whether I visited him often, I replied ‘Not more often than once or twice a day’.

And it was true. I would arrive at breakfast, and again at baby tea-time. As the children grew into toddlers we played hide-and-seek behind the curtains, and they would lead me upstairs for bath-time, which would inevitably leave me drenched.

‘Mum, don’t you ever say no?’ Rebecca asked me sternly, witnessing the children literally running rings around me. ‘No, why?’ I answered, nonplussed. Does any grandmother say no?

Kelly (right), their mother, looked exhausted, happy and rightly thrilled that she had produced twins, each weighing well over 6lbs. Joshua (left) — their father and my son — looked as proud as if he’d given birth himself

A friend who is also a besotted grandmother once told me: ‘I love my children, but I am in love with my grandchildren.’ And that is just how it feels. When I know I’m going to see them, I feel exhilarated.

When I leave them, I may be physically tired from chasing them around the kitchen, but they have revived me spiritually and given me strength. And I know that is not an illusion.

A charming Channel 4 documentary recently showed how the company of four-year-olds lifted the spirits of the residents of an old people’s home, and gave them physical and mental vitality. Grandchildren are good for you. They exercise your body and mind. When you look after them, you look after yourself, too.

After my husband Desmond died 17 years ago, my children were invaluable in their support. But, all the same, in the dozen years I was on my own before my grandchildren were born, I desperately missed the fun I used to have with Desmond, the physical affection he gave me, the warm hugs I used to take for granted.

Now I get plenty of them. When I kissed Benji goodnight a couple of weeks ago, he looked up at me with huge brown eyes and said: ‘Next time, Etta, bring your nightie, then you can sleep over.’ It was the best invitation I’d had for years!

I know how lucky I am to have this close relationship with both my children and grandchildren. Grandchildren are the best antidote to loneliness — and loneliness is a killer.

I know how lucky I am to have this close relationship with both my children and grandchildren. Grandchildren are the best antidote to loneliness — and loneliness is a killer

I know that from official figures which have linked it with depression and malnutrition in old people. Loneliness can be as dangerous to physical and mental health as obesity or smoking 15 cigarettes a day.

I also know it from callers to The Silver Line, the helpline for isolated older people I launched nearly four years ago.

There is an epidemic of loneliness, affecting millions of older people and destroying their confidence and feelings of self-worth. This makes the presence of grandchildren in people’s lives so invaluable.

Take this letter I received from a lady called Ellen, from Cornwall. She wrote to tell me that since she lost her husband her life has become ‘another pointless day when I’m a waste of space . . . I find myself talking to the TV, how sad is that! I dread the winter nights when everything seems to close in around me and I feel so isolated.

‘If it wasn’t for my grandson, whom I love dearly, I would have nothing to live for.’

When I leave them, I may be physically tired from chasing them around the kitchen, but they have revived me spiritually and given me strength. And I know that is not an illusion

Not every grandparent is in such a fortunate position. It has been estimated that over a million grandparents are prevented from having any access to their grandchildren, which seems tantamount to cruelty to me.

I discovered this hidden tragedy some years ago when I was contacted by Jane Jackson, who founded the Bristol Grandparents Support Group, and has herself been prevented from seeing her granddaughter since 2007.

I have heard of Christmas cards and presents returned, of phone calls refused.

Jane told me some of the reasons this tragedy can happen. Separation and divorce can lead to great bitterness. Misunderstandings become a long-lasting feud. Bereavement can create a rift which becomes permanent.

Indeed Jane has described the loss of her own grandchild as a living bereavement, and she knows how agonising it is.

Not every grandparent is in such a fortunate position. Pictured are Emilly McArthur aged 14 and Elliott McArthur aged 18 and Wendy Jones in Torquay

Her tale is fairly typical: her son divorced and lost contact with his wife and daughter, meaning the little girl, who would now be 18, was excised from her grandparents’ lives, too. Jane hasn’t seen her since the girl was seven.

Having met some of the grandparents Jane supports, I agreed to become a patron of the charity. This week she forwarded to me some of the desperate cries for help she has received from grandparents deprived of their grandchildren.

‘I long to feel their little hands creep into mine when they feel insecure and hear them laugh,’ wrote one.

‘To have them back in my life would mean more than all the gold in Fort Knox,’ another wrote.

‘It is like part of me is missing, an emptiness, like the feeling when someone close dies. It is torture with the tantalising possibility of a resolution.

'It is that possibility that makes us unable to let go and move on because it might, just might, end happily.’

‘Sad, empty; there are even times I feel suicidal. I have such a huge longing for family as it used to be, but doubt it will ever be the same again (although I do keep a little hope alive),’ came another.

‘My grandchildren were taken away from me not once but twice. The first time my daughter did apologise and said she regretted her actions. But I felt like I was treading on eggshells.

The best gift in the world: a tiny, warm hand in yours, and the invitation to play hide-and-seek behind the curtains. Pictured are Emilly McArthur aged 14 and Elliott McArthur aged 18 and Teddy aged two with Wendy Jones and twins Florence and Romilley

‘Now, after five years, I agree it is like a living bereavement words cannot describe. I often wonder what the boys do actually think and ask about their grandparents and what their mother and father are actually telling them.

‘I feel we are all missing out on their milestones and achievements, but most of all it’s the hands around your neck and Nannie and Grandad cuddles and kisses. I no longer want to live without my grandchildren in my life.’

A few of these grandparents feel so desperate they have gone to court to fight for the right to see their grandchildren. Under English law they have had to ‘prove’ their relationship with ‘evidence’ such as family photographs. It’s an expensive process, and even if they win, there is no real way to enforce the court’s decision.

French law is better. It explicitly declares that all children have the right to access to their extended families, especially grandparents.

Jane Jackson says it would take just a tiny alteration to the Children Act to include the extended family and grandparents to the provisions for a child’s welfare. ‘After all,’ she says, ‘every child has the right to a loving and caring relationship with their grandparents, unless it is proven unsafe for the child.’ And surely she is right.

Loving and caring — that is the key, and what we grandparents want to offer. That’s what we do, if we are allowed to.

After all, there are a million different ways we can show our love and our care — with practical gifts, like a chicken casserole or a freshly cooked fish pie, indispensable baby-sitting duties, help with the mortgage or a lift to the day nursery.

What do we grandparents get in return? The best gift in the world: a tiny, warm hand in yours, and the invitation to play hide-and-seek behind the curtains. They give us so much to look forward to and hope for in our older years.

Florence and Romilly, I simply can’t wait.

The Silver Line Helpline is available 24 hours a day on 0800 4 70 80 90

Bristol Grandparents Support Group helpline: 07773258270 or contact on website www.bgsg.co.uk





====== 2254 ========

WHY NO MAN EVER GETS OVER THE PAIN OF LOSING HIS MOTHER

Recently, I’ve been stung with regret by a memory from when I was four or five. I inherited my father’s monstrous temper and, at an age when a child is testing their boundaries, I would deploy my anger fairly often if my mother didn’t instantly accede to my demands.

On this occasion, at our home in South London, I remember running up to the top of the stairs in my rage at some insignificant slight. Mum appeared at the bottom of the stairs smiling and put her arms out, inviting a swift rapprochement.

I screamed that I hated her.

Paul Connolly's world collapsed when his mother (pictured with Paul) died aged 84 last Christmas. Recently, he has been stung with regret by a memory of his mother when he was four or five years old

But instead of being hurt by my outburst, Mum softened her demeanour still further, extended her arms once again and said: ‘Come on, lovie, come down and give me a cuddle.’

Even now, more than 40 years later, I can still feel that overwhelming urge to race down the stairs into her arms. It was all I wanted to do, to be wrapped up in her embrace and forgiven for being an idiot.

But I just couldn’t. My stubborn DNA precluded any kind of detente. I shook my head and ran into my room.

Five minutes later, Mum came to see me in my room. I know we must have made up, but the details are lost in the fog of time.

Paul with his twin daughters Leila (left) and Caitlin (right). He said: 'At my lowest ebb, I sometimes feel as though I’ve been cut adrift, as if I’m no longer tethered to the world, that even having a lovely girlfriend and twin daughters can’t compensate for the absence of the one person in the world who loved me unconditionally'

What isn’t lost is the feeling of regret, of wishing I’d run down the stairs to be held by her when she asked me to. The chance for that cuddle was lost for ever when my infant pride exercised its power.

That deep blue wash of remorse will stay with me until I die. Sometimes it’s not the things you do that leave the most permanent scars, it’s the things you don’t do.

And since my mother died last Christmas that episode keeps replaying in my mind. It just won’t go. It’s not guilt so much as remorse. I want that cuddle back.

Mum’s death at the age of 84 saw my world collapse. It’s still collapsing. Every time I think I’m clear of the rubble, another avalanche of grief threatens to engulf me.

At my lowest ebb, I sometimes feel as though I’ve been cut adrift, as if I’m no longer tethered to the world, that even having a lovely girlfriend and twin daughters can’t compensate for the absence of the one person in the world who loved me unconditionally.

Following his mother's death, Paul did nothing but sort through old photographs of his mother. 'I posted a few of them on Facebook, with a tearful commentary,' he said. 'That was a really strange thing for me to do — to open myself up so completely to my social media friends. My usual Facebook fodder is football and politics'

Don’t get me wrong. I’m not sitting at home crying and wailing. I work, play with my girls, watch football, have the occasional glass of wine. I laugh and I joke. To many people, my life would seem normal.

But there’s this huge, black void in my core. Mum’s death has hollowed me out — I’m here but I’m not here.

The most influential person in my life has ceased to exist. I’m just a husk now, a shell. Sometimes, I’m not sure I’ll ever be whole again.

The magnitude of my grief has shocked me. But then, I’m beginning to realise that a man is never too old or too young to be poleaxed by the loss of his mother, as Princes William and Harry demonstrated this week. She’s the first love of his life.

The difference between losing Mum and the death of my dad three years ago aged 89 couldn’t have been more stark.

Princes William and Harry at their mother Diana's funeral. Since his mother's death, Paul said he is 'beginning to realise that a man is never too old or too young to be poleaxed by the loss of his mother, as Princes William and Harry demonstrated this week'

Then, I felt nothing. He’d been a cruel, violent father.

I fretted for a while, worried that I was some kind of monster, that I should surely feel something at my father’s death, but friends told me it wasn’t my fault that I felt nothing for him.

It was his fault. He’d beaten all the love out of me.

But when I went to clear out Mum’s house last month, I was almost paralysed by heartbreak. For 48 hours I did nothing but sort through old photos. I posted a few of them on Facebook, with a tearful commentary. That was a really strange thing for me to do — to open myself up so completely to my social media friends. My usual Facebook fodder is football and politics.

My girlfriend of 17 years has often told me that I’m a closed, private person. I find it hard to talk about myself and it takes me a long time to trust people. So, why did Mum’s death prise me open like an oyster?

Paul Connolly with twins Caitlin (left) and Leila (right). 'There was a respite in 2013 when my twin daughters were born,' Paul says. 'Mum had given up on me having children, so the arrival of twins, more than 20 years after the birth of her previous grandchild, revitalised her'

Since the deaths of his father and sister, Paul said he made a point of Skyping his mother most evenings so she could see her granddaughters

The reason is quite simple. Mum was not just my only line of defence against my violent dad, my protector if you will, she also performed both parental roles in my upbringing.

She was my mother and my father. The loss of such a pivotal figure in your life is surely bound to make things come undone.

After I reached ten and started to think for myself, my father was useless. He was a textbook narcissist, unable to muster even the vaguest scrap of empathy, focused only on what others could do for him and utterly oblivious to his low IQ.

He may have lived in our house, but only really as an occasionally violent lodger.

To make up for his incompetence, Mum took on his parental job. She bolstered my fledgling football career by encouraging me to seek extra coaching, provided my moral education, nurtured my love of books and offered advice on my dealings with the opposite sex.

Mum, of course, thought I was the most handsome boy on the planet, an opinion in stark contrast to my father, who claimed I was ‘no film star’.

My father’s sentiment may have been admirable in its undeniable accuracy, but perhaps wasn’t what a gangly, spotty 14-year-old needed to hear. Dad was a little jealous of my bond with Mum. Not only did we have an intellectual connection, I’d inherited her dry and surreal sense of humour and we spent a lot of time making each other laugh.

Paul's daughters Caitlin (left) and Leila (right)

I’d poke fun at her and she’d respond instantly — we were a good team.

I had always been close to Mum. She was my first love. All my good memories of early childhood concern her.

Her brilliant story- telling, her ability to mimic other people and her love of Jimmy Young’s BBC Radio 1 show are part of the fabric of my childhood memories. We spent nearly every minute of every day together before I started school.

Then, she took a job as a care assistant at the hospital next door to my primary school and adjusted her shifts so she could collect me each day. But when I moved on to secondary school, Mum decided her life needed a different focus.

She was a bright woman, but she’d married at 19, had children straight away and been a housewife ever since. Before me she’d had my elder sisters — Phyllis, who was born in 1954, and Maria, who was born in 1956.

By 1974, at the age of 42 with her youngest at secondary school, she was ready to use her brain. She trained to become a nurse.

Early one Saturday morning in 1975, she heard the post hitting the doormat as she was lying in bed drinking a cup of tea. She called to me downstairs, where I was reading.

‘Paul, lovie, can you check the post? My exam results are due today and I can’t face opening the envelope. Can you do it and tell me what it says?’

I did as she asked. The news was positive and the image of her galloping down the stairs in her frilly nightie, shrieking with delight, perm bobbing, is one of my default memories of Mum. It makes me smile, not just because she looked more than faintly ridiculous (Mum never really cared what other people thought of her), but because she had finally done something worthy of her intellect.

'Mum’s death has made me re-evaluate what it means to be a parent,' said Paul. 'Her endless patience with children has been an inspiration for this still slightly bad-tempered father of twins'

On one of my many football-related visits to our local hospital’s A&E department over the next few years, a doctor asked me if I was related to Nurse Connolly.

I said ‘Yes’ and what he said next plumped me up with pride. ‘She’s better, cleverer and more clued up than most of the doctors here — she would have been a great doctor herself.’

These were some of the happiest days of her life, though the shadow of her husband’s malevolence could sometimes obscured her joy; he was jealous and scornful of her career. Though I must have been aware that Mum didn’t much like my father, she didn’t talk about it until they retired to Ireland in the late Eighties.

Thereafter, whenever I visited, we’d spend an hour each morning over a cup of tea, or three, picking over the bones of the most recent of Dad’s episodes of unpleasantness, while he snored in their bedroom.

But for reasons mainly involving her fervent Roman Catholicism, I suspect, she didn’t leave him. That regret tainted the rest of her life, embittered her, changed her imperceptibly, but tangibly.

When she had her children around her, she could almost forget Dad’s malignant presence, but when we were gone, his toxicity seeped into her pores.

Each time I visited her, she’d become a little more caustic, as if Dad’s poisonous view of the world was rusting her goodness.

There was a respite in 2013 when my twin daughters were born. Mum had given up on me having children, so the arrival of twins, more than 20 years after the birth of her previous grandchild, revitalised her.

She travelled to England to see us and the years fell away, her love of children overcoming the recent bitterness.

She chatted endlessly to my daughters, devising off-the-cuff and hilarious tales of bunny rabbits and pussy cats embarking on chaotic picnics.

The girls craved her attention and demanded they be allowed to wake her up each morning.

The respite lasted only one year. Dad died in August 2014 and then my eldest sister followed, taken by cancer, three months later.

It had fallen to me, sitting in a cafe at Heathrow Airport waiting for a flight to Malta where my sister had been taken to hospital, to tell Mum her firstborn had died the previous night. She crumpled, her inner structure disintegrating.

Mum’s death has made me re-evaluate what it means to be a parent. Her endless patience with children has been an inspiration for this still slightly bad-tempered father of twins.

My sister’s death finished Mum. She turned against everyone and everything but her two remaining children and the twins, dragged down into recrimination, bitterness and guilt. Her decline was precipitous. Her lungs began to fail and she lost much of her sight to an infection.

Since the deaths of my father and sister, I’d made a point of Skyping Mum most evenings so she could see her granddaughters. It had given her a focus each day.

Her failing eyesight not only robbed her of her principal pleasure, reading, but she could no longer see her beloved granddaughters on Skype. Her once mighty will was fatally eroded. Then dementia set in and within weeks she was gone.

I was lucky enough to spend a few days with her, six weeks before her death.

By that stage, she had to lug an oxygen cylinder around with her wherever she went. I made a joke about strapping it to her back like a scuba diver would.

And for the first time since my sister’s death I heard Mum laugh, a proper, hearty cackle. At the time, I thought to myself: Savour this — this could be the last time you hear her laugh. Sadly, I was right.

Mum’s death has made me re-evaluate what it means to be a parent. Her endless patience with children has been an inspiration for this still slightly bad-tempered father of twins.

Her lifelong refusal to be judgmental serves as a mental wrist-slap when I err towards instant, and usually ill-founded, reactions to situations.

I miss her intellect and her guidance, but most of all I miss her unconditional love.

I can clearly remember the last time Mum called me ‘darling’; it was during one of our last Skype chats.

She said it in a coaxing way that suggested she didn’t see me as a strapping giant of a man who’ll never see 50 again, but rather as a truculent four- year-old who loved his mother desperately, but was too proud to show it.

The pain is colossal, at times overwhelming.

But I’d rather feel this pain than feel nothing. This pain means that I loved and was loved. No matter how sad I am that she is gone, I give thanks that she was ever here at all.

====== 2255 ========

ARTICLE 50 WILL TRIGGER ECONOMIC PAIN AND UNCERTAINTY, WRITES MARK LITTLEWOOD

Last week’s Autumn Statement was dominated by the same story that has overlayed every piece of economic news and activity since the decision by the British people to vote Leave back in June.

Namely, exactly how good or bad will our exit from the European Union finally prove to be?

Will our impending independence make us a soaring economic powerhouse or will we find ourselves in uncertain and choppy waters in which growing our economy becomes a trickier task than we’d hoped?

During the referendum, all sorts of extravagant, elaborate and precise claims were made by both sides about the merits of remaining or leaving.

Certainly, some of the more apocalyptic predictions about the UK tipping into recession the moment we dared to choose to exit the EU have not come to pass.

Pro-Brexit demonstrators protest outside the Houses of Parliament on November 23, 2016

Article 50 WILL trigger economic pain and uncertainty, writes pro-leave advocate Mark Littlewood, as he calls for end to 'Brexit blame game'

But there is a real danger that the victorious Brexiteers are now dismissing any sort of honest, but downbeat, forecast as part of a conspiracy to talk down Britain and seek to halt the triggering of Article 50.

So it was that last week, projections by Robert Chote of the Office for Budget Responsibility and Paul Johnson of the Institute for Fiscal Studies were portrayed in some quarters as agents of a continuity Remain campaign.

Their warnings that economic growth might be a little less than they’d previously speculated were rubbished as propaganda and biased doom mongering.

In fact, both Mr Chote and Mr Johnson are attempting to give a genuinely independent assessment of how the British economy will fare in the coming years.

Most economists, themselves included, know this can be something of a fool’s errand.

There are so many imponderables and so many unknowns that the margin for error in any such forecast is very considerable.

But in the same way that football pundits or racing tipsters often try to give their honest views of a likely sporting outcome, so the Chotes and Johnsons of the world try to crunch numbers in order to give their best, but admittedly imperfect, view of what UK growth, spending and debt might look like.

They may end up being wrong, but they are assuredly independent, well informed and well intentioned experts who are in a good position to give some sort of outline sketch of our immediate economic future.

The fact they have suggested that the Brexit process might see economic growth being a tad less impressive in the next couple of years is a reasoned and reasonable conclusion to reach.

It is not part of some Establishment plot to seek to undo the decision made by the British people in the referendum.

Public finance watchdog chief Robert Chote who has insisted that his Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR) resisted attempts from Treasury officials to change the wording of reports

There is good reason to believe they might well be right.

It is also concerning that government debt will increase by around £120bn due partly to these more sluggish growth figures.

Businesses loathe uncertainty, and the failure of the May Government to even begin to signal what post-Brexit Britain might look like makes it extraordinarily difficult for companies to make any meaningful long-term investment decisions.

This lack of clarity is likely to persist for a while longer.

The protracted negotiation about how we divorce ourselves from the EU is not even going to begin for another four or five months.

Any suggestion that the next couple of years might be economically difficult should not be rubbished as prejudiced doom mongering by whinging Remainers.

In fact, those of us who backed Brexit would be much better advised to accept that there might be some short term pain, but that this is a price worth paying for re-establishing ourselves as an independent, sovereign nation with the ability to determine our own destiny over the longer term.

Leave voters across the country seem willing to pay this price, even if some pro-Brexit politicians are determined to deny that there might be any short-term cost at all.

The electorate clearly understood there would be some risks associated with a decision to exit the EU, but a majority decided it was a price well worth paying.

Voters Leave supporters wait for London Mayor Boris Johnson to address campaigners during a rally for the Vote Leave campaign on April 15, 2016 in Manchester, England

Just as an individual who moves house or changes jobs knows they are facing some immediate dislocating effects and costs, they are willing to bear these in the hope that things will work out better for them over the longer run.

So, we all need to be a little less hysterical about the possibility that the British economy might grow at around about 1.5 per cent next year, rather than the 2 per cent or so that was previously anticipated in the spring.

The downgrade is not enormous and it is not claimed to be a certainty.

But if you want to fundamentally change the direction and future positioning of an entire country, you can’t expect this to happen on a cost-free basis.

Optimistic Brexiteers should embrace this modest, immediate economic pain as being natural, normal and unsurprising – not try to pretend that there will be no downsides to leaving the EU whatsoever.

The electorate is smart enough to realise that what really matters is how we make Brexit work for us in the years and decades to come and not to worry unduly about a bit of market volatility and a few postponed investment decisions over the next 12 months.

And it is here that we should be focusing our criticism on the Government itself, not on independent forecasters who are providing their best guesses in a turbulent and uncertain world.

The May administration claims it is refusing to reveal its hand for fear this might prejudice its upcoming negotiations with the European Union.

Blaming independent forecasters for simply pointing these out is not remotely helpful or even fair, says Mark Littlewood

But this is a pretty feeble and unconvincing stance.

At the last General Election, the Tories made it publicly plain what sort of demands David Cameron would make as he tried, and failed, to renegotiate our EU membership.

The suspicion now must be not that Theresa May is wishing to hold her cards close to her chest but that she and her fellow Ministers can’t even agree on what sort of hand they hold.

Like many millions of others, I voted to Leave on June 23.

I did so with my eyes open and in the certain knowledge that there would be some economic pain and some uncertainties in doing so.

Blaming independent forecasters for simply pointing these out is not remotely helpful or even fair.

Let’s admit that we have chosen to follow the riskier, but braver, path and demand that our Government navigates a sensible route to the sunlit uplands.

====== 2256 ========

HOW 'CHILD' MIGRANTS ARE STRAINING THE CARE SYSTEM

Some time ago, I was sitting at a table with ten foster parents in West London. I had been told such parents were in short supply, so it was with shock that I learned that nine of them were not looking after vulnerable British youngsters — but unaccompanied asylum-seeking children.

There was a further, even more disturbing, revelation. Three of these children were not children at all. They were adult men posing as boys. The foster parents seemed to take the situation for granted, even joking drily about it.

Some admitted they found it awkward having a young man in the house who was probably 25 but claiming to be 17. But they had no proof and the authorities did not seem interested. ‘We just have to put up with the situation,’ sighed one.

Three young migrants who arrived in Britain from France yesterday

Their stories seemed especially pertinent this week when I saw those pictures of ‘child’ migrants arriving at the immigration registration centre in Croydon, fresh off a coach from the Calais Jungle. They had all claimed to be under 18, yet most looked considerably older, with facial hair, muscular physiques and an adult look to their faces.

Yet to some people working in the care system to whom I spoke, their appearance came as no surprise.

Yesterday, I talked to a worker in a residential home in Kent for children in care. Speaking on condition of anonymity, she told me that half of the children in care there are unaccompanied asylum-seeking children.

And it goes without saying that places in these homes are precious and much in demand. Yet she told me that in her estimation more than half the migrants are not children at all, but in their 20s.

‘They can be quite frightening at times,’ she said. ‘They are aggressive and have an attitude problem. Many have no respect for women because of their culture.

‘No one is giving consideration to the risks they pose, not just to staff but to the other children in the home. Because they are older, they have a lot of influence on the youngsters, who are very vulnerable. They introduce the children to alcohol and get them into crime like street robberies. It is a serious problem, which those in authority are not tackling.’

In considering the dangers of letting into the country young men posing as children, we need to look at Sweden and Germany in recent times.

Last week pop star Lily Allen apologised ‘on behalf of Britain’ for the plight of migrant children in the Calais camp

Both countries have also seen a significant rise in ‘child’ migrant numbers. On average, 90 boys without parents entered Sweden every single day in 2015 — more than half of them claiming to be 16 or 17.

In Dusseldorf last year, two migrants, who said they were 15 and 17, sexually assaulted a 12-year-old girl and threatened to cut the throat of a six-year-old witness. Police admit they have no idea of their real age.

Yesterday, I talked to a worker in a residential home in Kent for children in care. Speaking on condition of anonymity, she told me that half of the children in care there are unaccompanied asylum-seeking children

In Sweden, a care worker was murdered at a centre used to house 14 to 17-year-old asylum seekers. She had told her mother she was having to deal with ‘big powerful’ men in their 20s claiming to be children. Indeed, the ‘15-year-old’ accused of her murder shaves and has a moustache.

Meanwhile, when the Norwegian government insisted on dental examinations for unaccompanied asylum-seeker children arriving in the country, it was found that nine out of ten were, in fact, over 18.

Last year in Britain, nearly two-thirds of ‘child’ refugees quizzed about their real age were found to be adults, according to the Home Office. Of course, there are some genuine children in the Calais Jungle, for example, who are self-evidently well under 18, which is why the Mail has campaigned for them to be let into this country.

Special rights and privileges are granted to those under 18 who claim asylum in Britain, in terms of the care provision they are given.

Migrants from the Jungle rush the fence surrounding the motorway leading to the ferry terminal in Calais

Older migrants — who usually destroy any identity documents — clearly know this, hence the temptation to lie about their ages.

According to Eurostat, in 2015 3,045 unaccompanied minors claimed asylum here, of whom 91 per cent were male and only 8 per cent were under 14.

One of the problems with such numbers of new arrivals is the effect they have on the most vulnerable children already in our care system.

They now have to compete with the new arrivals for precious resources in facilities and staff.

By law, local councils are responsible for looking after children taken into care (the majority from abusive or neglectful parents) and now they have the added burden of caring for young people seeking asylum.

The local authority must look after them until the age of 25 if they are in full-time education — including any university costs.

And that is the problem. There are a limited number of foster parents to go around, not enough places to live and, above all, limited funds.

Kent is just one of many counties that is feeling the strain — but it is suffering most because it has the ports where thousands of refugees and migrants arrive from across the Channel.

For this reason, Kent cares for 1,350 unaccompanied minors seeking asylum.

A migrant walks past closed shops and restaurants in the northern part of the Jungle

Councillor Peter Oakford, head of Kent’s children’s services, points out: ‘This continues to put pressure on our services and finances, and we are concerned about the impact the closure of the Calais camps will have on the number of unaccompanied children attempting to enter the UK through Kent.’

And guess who suffers? Councillor Oakford is clear. Due to the influx of migrant children, he now has to send Kentish children taken into care to live outside Kent, far away from relatives, friends and the school they have known. This ‘is not a good position to be in and not a position we want to be in,’ he says bluntly.

Other councils are seeing dizzying rises. A Freedom of Information request by Community Care Magazine revealed numbers of unaccompanied children being looked after by local authorities, excluding Kent, increased by an average of 55 per cent from 2013-14 to 2014-15.

Birmingham experienced the largest rise, an increase of 650 per cent, but admittedly from a low base — from six to 45 young people.

At the same time, the Government is slashing council grants. One head of children’s services in a London council said his grant is set to halve. ‘We have a smaller piggy bank to cover larger numbers.’

One social worker explained who loses out. She said they have ‘moved away’ from providing a service to the British children in their care. ‘Instead we are dealing with problems fairly unique to young asylum seekers, such as what their legal status is, and visits to the Home Office and so on.’

Migrant teenagers arrive in Croydon from the Jungle camp yesterday

She added angrily: ‘This at the expense of our own 16 to 17-year-old teenagers who are leaving care but who still need a lot of support and are not getting it.’

The numbers of migrants are rising because of instability in the Middle East and African countries — where as much as 70 per cent of the population are under 30, and want to seek economic salvation in Europe.

Regardless of their reasons for trying to get to Britain, many on the Left have called for all migrants to be let into Britain.

On a visit to Calais, Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn said: ‘We must reach out the hand of humanity to the victims of war and brutal repression.’

In similar vein, last week pop star Lily Allen apologised ‘on behalf of Britain’ for the plight of migrant children in the Calais camp.

For years, we have had adult Pakistani males arriving in this country maintaining they are Afghan teenagers. They claim to be 13 or 14 but they are clearly over 20, with good facial hair Alp Mehmet, Migration Watch UK

Unfortunately in the grim world of trafficking, says former immigration officer Alp Mehmet, of the research body Migration Watch UK, criminal trafficking gangs view such generosity as ‘a weakness to be exploited’. They encourage more families to send their offspring to Britain ‘in growing numbers’.

Many of the youngsters whose families pay for them to come here — who may well be in their 20s but claim to be teenagers — are sent on flights into Britain and are instructed to say they are orphans so they are taken into care.

As one immigration officer with 20 years’ experience explained to me: ‘Ninety per cent of them are not orphans. Their coming here is very well worked out. Their families have paid the people-traffickers to bring them here,’ he added. ‘The intention is for the families to follow shortly after. For the most part, they are not fleeing for their lives.

‘For years, we have had adult Pakistani males arriving in this country maintaining they are Afghan teenagers. They claim to be 13 or 14 but they are clearly over 20, with good facial hair.’ Alp Mehmet, of Migration Watch UK, agrees that this ruse of claiming to be a child to get into the country is ‘fairly widespread’.

The immigration officer explained that thorough age-checks no longer take place at British airports.

‘There was a time,’ he said, ‘when we had a doctor stationed at the port health office in the airport, who could make an age-assessment by looking at the claimant’s teeth and face.’

But such doctors no longer exist. ‘They were removed a few years ago, just as the increasing numbers of asylum kids kicked off,’ he added.

‘Now we just call a social worker, but there is nothing they can do [in terms of deciding what to do] until the young person has had a scientific age-assessment.’ And, inevitably, that takes time to organise. So, instead of the migrant being detected as ‘over-age’ from the point they arrive in Britain, the social worker will place the ‘child’ with a temporary foster family or a care home. ‘They abscond almost immediately, often within the hour,’ said the immigration officer.

Sometimes, the migrants who say they are teenagers are accompanied by their traffickers on the flight. These men charge a high price for the service.

The immigration officer knows many of them by sight. They are often young men who mysteriously are able to travel ten times a year from Britain to Dubai and Africa. But since they have British or EU passports, immigration officials can do nothing about them.

====== 2257 ========

JAMES SLACK FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Jeremy Corbyn’s own rather desperate analysis of the election results was that Labour ‘hung on’, writes JAMES SLACK. This is just about true – but what will be the cost to the party’s long-term prospects as he staggers on for another year, knives protruding from both his front and back? The party’s share of the local vote was down around 6 percentage points on average compared to 2012, the last time these seats in England were contested, under the ultimately doomed leadership of Ed Miliband. Over the four decades since 1974, the average council election gain for an Opposition party in a year without a general election has been 434 seats. Yet Labour lost seats – more than 20 of them – in this week’s polls. ...read

====== 2258 ========

JAMES SLACK: IF THIS WAS A 'GOOD NIGHT', THEN THE LEFT'S IN A VERY DARK PLACE

Jeremy Corbyn’s own rather desperate analysis of the election results was that Labour ‘hung on'

Jeremy Corbyn’s own rather desperate analysis of the election results was that Labour ‘hung on’.

This is just about true – but what will be the cost to the party’s long-term prospects as he staggers on for another year, knives protruding from both his front and back?

The party’s share of the local vote was down around 6 percentage points on average compared to 2012, the last time these seats in England were contested, under the ultimately doomed leadership of Ed Miliband.

Over the four decades since 1974, the average council election gain for an Opposition party in a year without a general election has been 434 seats. Yet Labour lost seats – more than 20 of them – in this week’s polls.

You have to go back to 1985 – when Labour was tearing itself apart over hard-Left group Militant – to find an Opposition losing seats in English council elections.

But the figures are, in fact, worse for Labour than this. Because when an Opposition party has a new leader – as they have with Mr Corbyn – the average gains are 515 seats.

The Conservatives even managed to gain 256 council seats in 1998, when Tony Blair was at the height of his popularity. They won a further 1,344 in 1999, with Labour losing 1,161.

Even Michael Foot’s first local elections as party leader in 1981 saw Labour gain 988 – and he was the least successful Labour leader of modern times.

In contrast, Mr Corbyn has gone backwards and suffered losses.

True, Labour managed to remain the largest party in Wales – but fell short of an overall majority as Ukip ate into its core vote, gaining seven seats. Meanwhile, in Scotland, there was utter devastation for the party slumped to its worst result since 1910. Labour’s vote share was down by 9 percentage points – with the loss of 13 seats.

Humiliatingly, the Tories pushed them into third place.

Chancellor George Osborne’s analysis yesterday was that Labour is finished in Scotland and, therefore, no longer capable of forming a majority Government in the UK.

Only by forming an alliance with the SNP does it have any chance of running Britain – and the public flatly rejected that idea at the 2015 general election.

The only reason that Shadow Chancellor John McDonnell was able to claim, with a straight face, that Labour had enjoyed a ‘good night’ was because expectations had been so dramatically downplayed in recent weeks. It did not lose the 150-175 English council seats predicted by some analysts.

But if restricting the party’s losses to double-digits – when historic precedent suggests it should have made huge gains – is a good night’s work, the party is in a very, very dark place indeed.

Labour managed to remain the largest party in Wales – but fell short of an overall majority as Ukip ate into its core vote, gaining seven seats

Narrowly, it was ahead of the Tories in the national vote share. According to BBC projections for England, Labour are on 31 per cent with the Conservatives on 30 per cent. In 2012 Labour was at 38 per cent, and the Tories at 31 per cent.

And the Labour leadership let it be known that the results were sufficient see off any threat of an immediate coup. Tory moderates said themselves that Mr Corbyn has another 12 months in the job.

But in truth there never really was the prospect of the rebels striking now, as they have two major problems to overcome.

The first is that, while Mr Corbyn has the backing of hundreds of thousands of party members, any coup attempt would be futile.

Team Corbyn are adamant that, legally, he would make it on to the ballot in any leadership contest and win again.

Second, where is the candidate around whom the moderates are uniting?

The two names in the frame are Angela Eagle and Dan Jarvis but there is no strategy for getting them elected – just a seething contempt for the man who currently holds the job, which many of them so publicly laid bare yesterday on the TV and radio.

While Mr Corbyn has the backing of hundreds of thousands of party members, any coup attempt would be futile.

What state the party and its ‘brand’ – so painstakingly repaired by Neil Kinnock, John Smith and Tony Blair – will be in this time next year is anyone’s guess.

Still to come, remember, is the madness of the party tearing itself apart over a vote on replacing Trident – not to mention who knows how many more anti-semitism scandals.

Certainly, the night was not without some pain for David Cameron, whose share of the vote fell in the south east. Councils he might have expected to turn blue did not materialise.

But, given that he is six years into his premiership, in the grip of a bruising internal battle over Europe, and coming off the back of a botched Budget, the Prime Minister should have been drubbed.

Instead, he could trumpet not only the incredible story north of the border, but also the news of seats gained in places such as Peterborough, Nuneaton and Bury – all of them key election battlegrounds.

====== 2259 ========

LIKE NORA SENIOR'S HEROINE ELIZABETH I, SHE POSSESSES COPPER HAIR AND DEFT POLITICAL TOUCH

Once asked to name her favourite historical figure, Nora Senior named Elizabeth I, describing her as ‘a most able politician, passionate about her people.’ Like her heroine, the British Chambers of Commerce president possesses striking copper hair and a deft political touch.

However, following recent events, her ousted director general John Longworth will doubtless feel that is where the flattering comparison ends.

While Mr Longworth’s distinguished business career has seen him serve on the board of retail giants such as Tesco and Asda, Miss Senior’s time has been spent almost exclusively in the world of public relations.

Once asked to name her favourite historical figure, the British Chambers of Commerce president Nora Senior (pictured) named Elizabeth I, describing her as ‘a most able politician, passionate about her people'

Following a stint working for Saatchi & Saatchi she is currently UK chairman of Weber Shandwick, one of the world’s largest corporate communications firms which has advised global conglomerates such as Coca Cola and Microsoft.

Even her lengthy entry on social networking site LinkedIn – peppered with self-aggrandising phrases as ‘highly motived’ ‘significant expertise’ and ‘Award-winning’ – reads as though it has been copy and pasted from a PR handbook.

Born in St Andrews to teacher parents, Miss Senior, 58, lives in a £380,000 home in Nottingham with her husband Stuart, with whom she has a son and a daughter.

She is fan of poetry – with a particular fondness for German classicist Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and her compatriot Liz Lochhead – and is a keen follower of Formula One racing.

Upon her appointment to the BCC in 2013, she became it first woman president in more than a decade and only the second in its 150-year history.

MINISTER: HANDING POWER TO BRUSSELS HOLDS BACK WOMEN Employment Minister Priti Patel (pictured) will make a forceful appeal for undecided women voters to support the Leave campaign The suffragettes did not fight and die for women to get the vote only for control of their destiny to be surrendered to Brussels, a female Cabinet minister will say today. Employment Minister Priti Patel will make a forceful appeal for undecided women voters to support the Leave campaign. She will say that being a part of the EU sees women handing power over to unelected EU officials – which is holding women back. ‘The suffragettes fought for our democratic freedom,’ Mrs Patel will argue. ‘Emmeline Pankhurst and the suffragettes did not fight to have the right to vote on who governs them, only to then see those decisions surrendered to the EU’s undemocratic institutions and political elite. ‘Our campaign to take back control from the EU will enhance our democracy and empower women in this country.’ She will add: ‘While we remain in the EU, the potential and ambition of women is being held back.’ Mrs Patel, the MP for Witham, will speak at the launch of a group of 40 female business leaders and politicians in London. Recent polls found that women were almost twice as likely as men to answer ‘Don’t Know’ about which way they would vote in the EU referendum. Up to a quarter are undecided – which could be enough to swing the outcome of the vote. The Women for Britain group say they are determined to put forward a positive case for leaving the EU so that women, often perceived as more ‘risk-averse’ than men, consider a vote to leave as the safer choice. Mrs Patel will describe the UK’s ‘proud history of listening to women’ – listing laws that have been passed including equal pay acts and the Abortion Act, as well as pointing out the availability of the contraceptive pill for free on the NHS – as achievements made before we were in the EU or ‘without EU assistance’. She will add: ‘We don’t need the European Union to protect the rights of women in the UK and it is wrong and misleading to suggest that leaving the EU would put women’s rights at risk. ‘Britain has been a world leader at promoting women’s rights at home and abroad and our support for women would only be enhanced by leaving the EU.’ Northern Ireland Secretary Theresa Villiers, who will also attend the event, said: ‘I will be voting to leave the EU because I think we should take back control over making our own laws in our own Parliament again. ‘I also believe that taking back the power to make our own trade agreements will open up big opportunities for UK businesses across many parts of the world.’

So it was unsurprising that in her first interview in the job, she urged the Government to introduce tax breaks for firms willing to invest in home and remote working to encourage more women to stay in work after having children.

It was a commitment to support women in the workplace forged during her first job after leaving Glasgow University, working the marketing department of a British construction company

She recalls: ‘The first day I arrived I was told I was going to be fired because they didn’t employ women. That was in the days when you could say that.

'And I said “that’s a bit of a quandary, what are you going to do about it?” And the general manager said, “I’m going to give you six months and at the end of that six months you will probably have found another job”.’

====== 2260 ========

TAMARA ECCLESTONE'S EX-LOVER OMAR KHYAMI ARRESTED OVER CLAIM HE STOLE HER GEMS

Miss Ecclestone says she went to police after ‘third party’ contacted her, saying jewellery allegedly belonging to her was offered for sale by her ex

He was detained after theft allegations were made to police this week

An ex-boyfriend of Tamara Ecclestone spoke of his shock last night after he was arrested over claims he stole ‘sentimental’ jewellery from the heiress and then tried to sell it.

Businessman Omar Khyami, 40, whose two-and-a-half year relationship with the wealthy socialite ended in acrimony in 2012, was detained after theft allegations were made to police this week.

According to Miss Ecclestone, 29, the items were given to her by her billionaire father Bernie, the Formula One boss.

An ex-boyfriend of Tamara Ecclestone - businessman Omar Khyami - spoke of his shock last night after he was arrested over claims he stole 'sentimental' jewellery from the heiress and then tried to sell it. The two are pictured together in May 2012

She says she went to police after a ‘third party’ contacted her this week, saying jewellery allegedly belonging to her was being offered for sale by her ex-boyfriend.

The theft claims follow a recent High Court ruling that Miss Ecclestone was wrong to try to reclaim a £380,000 Lamborghini supercar she gave to Mr Khyami, as a present, when they were dating.

She was told to pay more than £20,000 in compensation to two car companies which were prevented from selling the vehicle while the case was ongoing.

A judge said that the wrangling over the Lamborghini Aventador had ‘caused everyone far more trouble than it is worth’.

Now Miss Ecclestone is at loggerheads with Mr Khyami again over jewellery. The model, who split from Mr Khyami after he cheated on her, says he had no right to have the items.

A spokesman for Miss Ecclestone, who married former City stockbroker Jay Rutland last summer, told the Daily Mail last night: ‘On Monday June 9 a concerned third party contacted us regarding jewellery purportedly belonging to Ms Ecclestone that was being sold by Omar Khyami.

A spokesman for Miss Ecclestone, who married former City stockbroker Jay Rutland (both pictured, above) last summer, told the Daily Mail last night: 'On Monday June 9 a concerned third party contacted us regarding jewellery purportedly belonging to Ms Ecclestone that was being sold by Omar Khyami'

‘These were sentimental pieces of jewellery, gifted to Tamara by her father. Ms Ecclestone is now assisting police with their inquiries.’

At his flat overlooking Hyde Park, Mr Khyami – who was arrested after agreeing to attend a police station in West London on Wednesday – told the Mail: ‘I haven’t been with Tamara for two years.

‘A lot of the jewellery we had together, she constantly changes her mind on whose it is. I was called by the police and asked to come for questioning about the theft of £8,000 of jewellery. There were no handcuffs – they just said, “Someone has made an allegation and we have to follow it up”.

‘It was only a small piece of jewellery, not a watch or anything.

‘I don’t want to hurt her. It’s two years since we’ve been together and I don’t know what she wants.’

According to Miss Ecclestone, 29, the items were given to her by her billionaire father Bernie, the Formula One boss

The dispute comes five months after the row over the Lamborghini reached the High Court.

Miss Ecclestone gave the car to Mr Khyami on his 38th birthday in April 2012, but when they broke up three months later she claimed it belonged to her.

Mr Khyami had used the car to secure a loan from a company called Elite Performance Cars Ltd in connection with a white Bentley which he bought Miss Ecclestone for Christmas in 2011.

In April 2013, bailiffs acting on behalf of Elite seized the car from a garage where Miss Ecclestone was having it serviced.

The firm sold the vehicle to Ansol Trading Ltd, which apparently arranged to sell it on to a buyer in Turkey until the heiress obtained a High Court injunction stopping the sale on the grounds that she had never actually given the Lamborghini to Mr Khyami.

Speaking in 2012, after she split from Mr Khyami following her discovery that he had featured in a sex tape, Miss Ecclestone said she did not regret the romance.

She said: ‘I did have a lucky escape. Definitely. I don’t regret the relationship, I’m the kind of person who wants to fix people sometimes, and that’s not really a healthy way to be. People have to want to change for themselves.’

In February of last year, another of her former boyfriends was jailed for four years for plotting to blackmail her for £200,000.

Derek Rose, 33, who dated her in 2002, was involved in a plot in which it was claimed he was approached to sell his story to a tabloid newspaper.

Rose was included in an email mentioning the possibility of discussing ‘a non-release fee’ and signing a confidentiality contract.

Southwark Crown Court in London heard that he had dated Miss Ecclestone when she was 17.

The blackmail arose from an email sent in November 2011 to her manager after the model had starred in Billion Dollar Girl, a reality TV programme exploring her life as a rich young person.

The email claimed Rose had been offered £200,000 to sell his story to a tabloid, despite no newspaper having made such an offer.

Asked about Mr Khyami’s arrest, Scotland Yard said last night: ‘On Wednesday June 11, officers arrested a 40-year-old man on suspicion of the theft of jewellery from an address in the borough of Kensington and Chelsea.

‘The man was taken into custody and since bailed to return on a date in July.’

Today Tamara Ecclestone said in a statement: 'It's incredibly sad that Omar feels that he can offer for sale sentimental items from me, items which he knew were not every day pieces.

'There is no logical reason why he could think that two female pieces of jewellery, one even with my name engraved on it could ever be his.

'I will continue to assist the police in their investigation.'

A friend added: ‘We all thought he was out of her life after the trial, it's an ugly reminder of their past relationship.

'These were personal items, priceless gifts from her dad regardless of the value. Tamara was really upset that her dad has had to identify the pieces.’

====== 2261 ========

I'LL STAND AGAINST ALEX SALMOND IN THE SCOTTISH PARLIAMENT SAYS GORDON BROWN

Gordon Brown has threatened to stand for election to the Scottish Parliament over Alex Salmond’s ‘lies’ about the NHS.

The former Prime Minister said he would make a dramatic return to frontline politics north of the border to tackle the SNP head on.

His announcement prompted speculation that the former prime minister – who would be a significant figure compared to the those currently representing Labour in Scotland – might even seek to succeed Mr Salmond as Scotland’s leader.



The former Prime Minister, who is still an MP in Westminster, said: ‘I say this to Mr Salmond himself. If he continues to peddle this deception then I will want to join Johann Lamont in fighting him and securing the return of a Labour Government as quickly as possible.’

Scroll down for video

Former Labour Prime Minister Gordon Brown in Kilmarnock, Scotland, today suggested he would stand for the Scottish Parliament if Alex Salmond continued 'lying' about the NHS

Mr Brown said he was prepared to return to frontline politics to fight the SNP in Holyrood, Edinburgh

Mr Brown, who has rarely been seen at Westminster since losing the 2010 election and resigning as Labour leader, has re-emerged to try to revive the faltering No campaign.

He even won praise from his old enemy David Cameron this week for ‘catalysing’ agreement on a rapid timetable for the devolution of more powers to the parliament in Holyrood.

Mr Brown will be 65 by the time of the next Scottish parliament elections in 2016. He has insisted he intends to stand in the General Election next year, but it is still possible to run in Holyrood elections while remaining an MP at Westminster.

Mr Brown’s surprise threat came as he launched a bid to shore up support for the Union among Scottish pensioners.

A Survation poll released last night showed the over 65s were overwhelmingly planning to vote ‘No’ – by 57 per cent to just 36 per cent in favour.

Mr Brown said Labour would not devolve Scottish pensions to Edinburgh – because they were safer under the protection of the UK Government.

But he said Mr Salmond’s claim that the NHS was in danger from London were bogus because the health service was already controlled by Holyrood.

Mr Brown also vowed to hand further tax raising powers for the Scottish Government to increase funding for the health service.

He added that if Mr Salmond continued to claim that Labour was a threat to the NHS he would stand for office in Scotland.

The revelation that Mr Brown was prepared to move his political career to Edinburgh overshadowed his pitch to pensioners to vote against independence.

Mr Brown said: ‘The nationalists want you to believe that if an English Prime Minister sought to privatise the NHS in Scotland or cut its budget, Scots would be powerless to prevent this from happening.

‘They want you to believe that the Scottish Parliament is powerless to act to safeguard our NHS.

If Mr Brown returned to front-line politics in Holyrood it would mark a dramatic resurrection of his career after leaving Number 10 in 2010

‘They want you to conclude that separation is the only answer if you care about the NHS. This is a nationalist deception – a claim that does not stand up to the evidence and that is not supported by the facts.

‘What the nationalists don’t tell you is that the Scottish health service cannot be privatised by Westminster because all decisions about our NHS are made here in Scotland. The Scottish Parliament, created by Labour in 1998, has full control over our health service.

‘What the nationalists also don’t tell you is that they are not powerless to fund the NHS. Under the Scotland Act 1998, they already had the power to raise an extra £1,000 million in tax to help pay for the NHS in Scotland.

‘Had they wanted to use it, the SNP could have raised the Scottish healthcare budget from £12 billion to £13 billion.

‘The Scottish Parliament has all the powers it needs to fund the NHS in Scotland.’

He added: ‘It is time to nail the nationalist lie.’

He said: ‘Do you think that I or anyone else who cares about the NHS would let it be privatised in Scotland or have its funds cut – without a fight?

‘Would we stand back and do nothing without ensuring that there were laws in place to guarantee that the NHS could not be privatised in Scotland or see its funding cut without our permission?’

He also attacked Mr Salmond for rejecting the latest warnings that big businesses would move their headquarters to England in the event of a Yes vote next week.

Paraphrasing a quote attributed to Abraham Lincoln, he said: ‘I say to Alex Salmond: you can try to dismiss some of the warnings some of the time but you cannot dismiss all of the warnings all of the time.’

But SNP leader Mr Salmond insisted Scotland was on the ‘cusp of making history’ by voting for independence in a week's time.

Vowing that Scots ‘will vote Yes’ in seven days' time, he attacked the No camp for being in ‘terminal decline’ the day after the leaders of three main UK parties travelled north of the border in a bid to save the union.

Mr Salmond said: ‘Scotland is on the cusp of making history. The eyes of the world are upon Scotland. And what the world is seeing is an articulate, peaceful, energised debate.

‘Scotland will vote Yes next Thursday and they will vote Yes because last minute, cobbled up promises from the No campaign which unravel at the slightest scrutiny will not fool anyone in this country and neither will the blatant bullying and intimidation of the Westminster Government.

‘The No campaign is in terminal decline. In contrast a Yes vote is the opportunity of a lifetime. An opportunity to build a fairer more prosperous country.’

The latest Survation poll for the Daily Record puts support for the union at 53 per cent and backing for independence on 47 per cent, when undecided voters are excluded.

Last night an unprecedented list of 200 health workers – including porters, nurses, GPs and the country’s top consultants – signed a letter warning that independence is a ‘great risk’ to the NHS.

The open letter to the Scottish Dail Mail stated: ‘Patients from Scotland can access the care they need anywhere in the UK. Independence would, at best, put them at the back of the queue.

They accused the Yes campaign of peddling lies about the NHS.



====== 2262 ========

PALM SPRINGS: A DATE WITH CALIFORNIA'S DESERT CLASSIC

The pretty perfection of Palm Springs: Charlize, Sinatra and the timeless sophistication of California's desert classic



Over the years, I’ve watched Palm Springs grow into a sophisticated city.

In the Sixties, it was just a handful of Indian huts and celebrity compounds where Hollywood stars used to bed their mistresses.

Aptly named: Palm Springs delivers a certain style of leafy elegance in eastern California

In those days, the sand drifted over the narrow streets and tumbleweed clumps bowled into your path.

Now the wide highways are landscaped with shady palms and the once barren desert blooms with everything you could possibly need: restaurants, theatres, world-class shopping, top-notch hospitals and year-round sports facilities for all ages - golf complexes, cycling tracks, quad biking, horse riding and natural thermal springs.

There is also the Palm Springs International Film Festival, which attracts such stars as Charlize Theron. And it boasts a little gem of a tennis stadium, owned by billionaire phone mogul and America’s Cup winner Larry Ellison, host to the now famous Indian Wells tennis tournament held every March - of which more later.

Star quality: Palm Springs has long drawn in A-list celebrities - from Frank Sinatra through to Charlize Theron



I like to visit Palm Springs every time I am in LA. You know you have reached the desert when, after about two hours’ freeway driving, you go over the pass in the casino town of Cabazon, your ears pop from the change of pressure and the temperature soars by 10 degrees.

On one side is the tallest peak in southern California, Mount San Gorgonio, where Frank Sinatra’s mother, Dolly, died in a plane crash. (She is buried next to Frank in the local cemetery.)

On the other is the majestic Mount San Jacinto, with its aerial tramway, from where you can see as far as California’s own Dead Sea, the Salton. Between them runs the romantic highway 111 that ends in Mexico but first leads straight into the main street of Palm Springs.

Creature comforts: Once a simple desert pitstop, Palm Springs now boasts restaurants and hotels aplenty

As soon as I arrive, I head for a bar and order a margarita on the rocks, not blended, and guacamole and tortilla chips. Later, I take a pavement table at Ruby’s cheap and cheerful diner for chili with extra onions and watch the people go by.

Downtown Palm Springs offers an increasingly lively, young bohemian scene - but drive on and the highway turns into a sophisticated main street lined with opulent winter homes and high-class shopping centres.

The romantic names of the side streets make you think you are in a cowboy movie. Deep Canyon, Shadow Mountain, Indian Trail, all sound like somewhere John Wayne would have known.

For the incorrigibly nostalgic there is a genuine Fifties’ roadside diner, Keedy’s - serving gloopy milkshakes and crispy hash browns - where Humphrey Bogart would have felt at home.

Five minutes away is Indian Wells. For years I have watched the tennis tournament on TV, marvelling at the cloudless skies as I shivered in the English rain.

Ravishingly rugged: Palm Springs is framed by the San Jacinto Mountains, which like immediately to the west

This year I decided to see it first hand. Gone are the days when you could get up close and personal with the stars at events such as Wimbledon, which are now corporate jamborees.

But even though the top players flock to Indian Wells, competing for a mammoth $6 million purse, the desert matches manage to remain refreshingly intimate.

I spotted some old stars in the stands, including Billie Jean King, Rod Laver and Roy Emerson, and on court some new ones, such as razor-cheeked Ukrainian Alexandr Dolgopolov, who smashed every ball as though he was aiming it at Vladimir Putin.

I took some fabulous action shots of Djokovic and Federer, and proved to myself that it is very different seeing events live rather than on TV.

This being Southern California, the commentaries are supercharged and our once polite English game is treated as a blood sport.

If you stay in one of the larger resort hotels, such as the Hyatt or La Quinta at tournament time, you could find yourself checking in next to Andy Murray. I found a quiet motel, the Mojave Resort in Palm Desert, five minutes from the stadium and handy for the boutiques and restaurants on El Paseo, the desert’s version of Beverly Hills’ Rodeo Drive.

Full service: The Indian Wells tennis tournament draws in giants of the game, such as Roger Federer

Run by a cheery Tanzanian called Mash, who used to live in London, it’s a little pricey in the season at around £150 a night, but the rate drops to £50 in the summer if you want to experience 100-degree heat - and everything is air-conditioned, so why not?

In any case, you can always retreat to the desert’s many darkened cocktail lounges to knock back highballs like Sinatra.

====== 2263 ========

STEVE DOUGHTY FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Kathleen Danby, 72, from Orkney in Scotland was jailed for three months by the secretive Court of Protection in Birmingham, despite not being at the hearing. Under a draconian judgment kept secret from the public, Mrs Danby had been banned from making contact with the girl, who is 18 but has learning difficulties, and told she could only speak to her on the phone once a month at a set time, with social workers listening in. ...read

====== 2264 ========

MINISTERS REJECT FOOD BANKS' 20MILLION MEALS FIGURE

Ministers reject food charities' 20million meals figure: Charities in row with Government after it emerges half of meals are handed out to good causes such as lunch clubs

Charities said a growing number of people are turning to food banks

500,000 children are living in families that cannot provide a minimum diet

But Department for Work and Pensions has disputed the claims



Food charities plunged into a row with the Government yesterday after claiming that 20 million free meals were handed out last year to people too poor to buy food.

The charities, led by the aid giant Oxfam, said that there was a rise in numbers of desperate people turning to food banks in even the most affluent parts of the country, and that half a million children are living in families that cannot provide ‘a minimally acceptable diet’.

But the claims were challenged yesterday after it emerged that more than half of the free meals were not given out to people who cannot afford to eat but to other good causes such as pensioners’ lunch clubs.

Revelations: It has emerged that more than half of the free meals from food charities were not given out to people who cannot afford to eat but to other good causes such as pensioners' lunch clubs (file picture)

Sources close to Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith have disputed the charities’ figures.

'It is simply not possible to draw conclusions from these unverified figures drawn from disparate sources,’ a spokesman for the Department of Work and Pensions said.

The three charities published a report, Below the Breadline, which said that ‘food banks and food aid charities gave more than 20 million meals last year to people in the UK who could not afford to feed themselves.’

It said this was a 54 per cent increase on the previous year, and that the need for food aid was a result of ‘a perfect storm of changes to the social security system, benefit sanctions, low and stagnant wages, insecure and zero-hours contracts and rising food and energy prices.’

The report, released in the name of Oxfam, Church Action on Poverty, and the Trussell Trust food bank organisation, said 20,247,042 charity meals were provided in the financial year that ended in April.

However critics said the numbers could not be considered to count meals given to people who are unable to afford to feed themselves, because more than half were supplied by a charity called FareShare, which does not feed the hungry, but instead gives food to other charities.

FareShare, which was responsible for 12 million of the 20 million meals counted in the Oxfam report, collects unsold food from Sainsbury’s and other supermarkets which would otherwise be destroyed or disposed of, and distributes it to charities that can use it.

These include, according to its website, lunch clubs for pensioners, including some run by the Royal British Legion, charities that help vulnerable adults, and women’s refuges.

Backlash: Sources close to Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith have disputed the charities' figures

One example is the Central Street Cookery School, near London’s fashionable Old Street district, where chefs teach families and children how to cook healthy meals.

The school’s manager is quoted by FareShare saying: ‘We tried running the classes at a cost of £5 but people said, although they would like to come, they couldn’t afford to. Because of FareShare, we can now open up the workshops at a low cost to low income families.’

Critics of the Oxfam report said such meals are not going to people who are too poor to feed themselves.

‘The largest share comes from FareShare,’ a source close to Mr Duncan Smith said.

‘FareShare redistribute food from supermarkets to around 1300 charities and community groups, which is then used in places such as community cafes, domestic violence refuges and elderly drop-in centres.

‘This supports charities by helping them to keep their costs down while cutting down on food waste - which is clearly very different to provision of emergency food aid through foodbanks.’

Most of the remainder of the meals suppled were 8,218,242 provided by the food bank operator the Trussell Trust. The Trust hands out packages of food to last people three days, which the Oxfam report calculated as nine meals.

It is unknown how many people claimed the 900,000 or so packages provided by the Trust, because it counts only the number of food parcels handed out and takes no account of numbers of repeat visits.

====== 2265 ========

HOW CAN ANN FUREDI SUPPORT TERMINATING A BABY BECAUSE SHE'S A GIRL?

How can the high priestess of abortion support the barbarity of terminating a baby just because she's a girl?



To this day, I can still remember the sense of wonder that gripped me one morning in the middle of my first pregnancy. Returning to the office, I could barely concentrate on my work.



I had just been for a scan to check on the health of the baby - this was in the early days of ultrasound medical technology - and the experience of seeing the pictures of my own baby growing inside me was both thrilling and deeply moving.



Neither my husband nor I asked about the gender of our child, preferring the old- fashioned method of wait and see.



Ann Furedi, the chief executive of BPAS, claims that it was perfectly lawful for women to end their pregnancies if they do not like the sex of their unborn child

Since I come from a family that always seems to produce girls, it came as a great surprise when the baby turned out to be a boy.



Despite my delight in those ultrasound pictures, I decided I would not have any such tests when I embarked on my second pregnancy. I didn't want any of the doubts or distractions that pre-birth scans might generate.



The experience of my second pregnancy, not knowing what to expect, not knowing if the baby was developing normally, mirrored that of women throughout the world and throughout history. Until very recently, expectant mothers have been entirely in the dark about the baby they were carrying.



But all that has changed in recent years. We have now entered a brave new world, where a pregnancy can be terminated simply because the foetus does not meet an arbitrary set of criteria drawn up by the mother - or the wider family.



This moral revolution has been driven by two forces. One is the invention of ever-more sophisticated scanning techniques and other tests, which allow a comprehensive profile of the baby to be provided before the birth.



The second is the aggressively libertarian interpretation of the 1967 Abortion Act, which means that in this country we now effectively have abortion on demand.



Defenders of this seismic shift like to talk about women's rights and 'choice'. But this trend has little to do with true liberation.



On the contrary, it is profoundly damaging. Increasingly, life is being ended, not on the grounds of health as the 1967 Act stipulated, but on the basis of an emotional decision or social pressure.



The nadir of this destructive, immoral approach was reached recently in the shocking revelation that some doctors in Britain have been aborting female babies solely on the grounds of their gender.



Liberal leader David Steel, left, (pictured with MP Mike Hancock and Shirley Williams), architect of the 1967 Abortion Act, which is now completely meaningless

The appalling practice of sex-selective abortions, it seems, occurs mainly in Asian communities, where a small minority of families still carry the cultural baggage that places a higher social and economic value on boys than girls.



Yet the response of officialdom to the evidence of this phenomenon has been utterly feeble.



Shamefully, the Crown Prosecution Service has declared that there will be no prosecutions of those doctors who were revealed to have agreed to arrange abortions of baby girls, despite a 'realistic' prospect of convictions.



Even worse has been the reaction of parts of the so-called feminist 'sisterhood'.



We have categorical evidence of female foetuses being destroyed on the grounds of their gender.

Yet few feminists have dared to utter a squeak of protest at this savage act of discrimination.



Instead, they either pretend the problem does not exist, or they end up in the bizarre position of defending it.



The latter is the stance taken this week by Ann Furedi, the chief executive of the British Pregnancy Advisory Service (BPAS), who claimed that it was perfectly lawful for women to end their pregnancies if they do not like the sex of their unborn child.







' This is not feminism, but the very opposite. It is brutal, institutionalised misogyny on an epic scale.'



'There is no legal requirement to deny a woman an abortion if she has a sex preference,' she said. Going even further, she argued that any attempt to restrict gender selection would undermine a woman's right to choice.



'We either support a woman's capacity to decide or we don't. You can't be pro-choice except when you don't like the choice,' she trumpeted.



It is truly terrifying that Ms Furedi should be in charge of Britain's largest abortion charity, for her statements suggest she has completely lost her moral compass.



The idea that gender selection represents an aspect of a woman's right to choose how to manage her own body and pregnancy is as perverse as it is deluded.



This is not feminism, but the very opposite. It is brutal, institutionalised misogyny on an epic scale.



The lethal message being sent out by Ms Furedi, the abortion clinics and the Crown Prosecution Service is that it's acceptable to despise girls, to want them excluded from mainstream society, and even to desire an end their potential existence.



That is precisely the kind of outdated barbarity that feminism is meant to be fighting.



It should be said, however, that Ms Furedi has performed one useful public service.



Through her acceptance of gender selection, she has exposed a truth that many of us have long suspected: that the 1967 Abortion Act has become completely meaningless.



When the Act was introduced by David Steel, later the Liberal Party leader, it was with the aim of ending the outright ban on all abortion in this country.



Under this legislation, an abortion is meant to be carried out only if the continuation of the pregnancy would cause real danger to the physical or mental health of the mother, or if there were evidence of extreme foetal abnormality.



But such qualifications are now treated as a supreme irrelevance. Abortion seems to be granted on the most superficial of grounds, often because it simply isn't convenient for the mother to have a baby at that precise moment in her life.



As Ms Furedi admitted, terminations are now carried out even in cases of mothers 'just feeling there's no way' they can bring a child into the world.



And so we have arrived at a situation where around 20 per cent of all pregnancies now end in an abortion, while 200,000 such procedures are performed every year, more than a quarter of them in Ms Furedi's BPAS clinics.



Abortion has become just another form of contraception.



Just as disturbing is how our readiness to terminate a pregnancy has undermined efforts to promote equality in our society.



In recent years, there has been a tremendous - and wholly welcome - effort by our civic institutions to stamp out discrimination against people with disabilities.



Yet this runs counter to the growing acceptance of the belief that unborn children should be aborted if medical tests show they have genetic abnormalities.



The implication of this trend is that a child who is born with disabilities is not as wanted or cherished as one who is born healthy. Indeed, at its very worst, it smacks of eugenics, the twisted obsession with breeding physical perfection.



Gender selection is just as unpleasant. Any free, democratic society that truly wants to treat its citizens as equal would not dream of tolerating such a sinister practice. In its manifest contempt for female gender, it is the exact opposite of equality.



We cannot go on like this. We cannot continue to provide abortions because a family would prefer not to have a daughter, because their baby might not be 'perfect' or because a baby would be an 'inconvenience' to the mother.



Ann Furedi's sweeping, superficial comments about choice confirm what many of us have feared: that abortion has become a service to be ordered 'on demand.'



By failing to take action against doctors who agree to abort babies on the basis of their sex, the Crown Prosecution Service has all but given its blessing to this morally rotten practice.



Perhaps one day, a politician will have the courage to close the loophole in the law that allows this to happen, but don't hold your breath. Once a social taboo is shattered, it is almost impossible to glue the pieces back together.



====== 2266 ========

WHY DOESN'T STEPHEN FRY CALL FOR A BAN ON RUSSIAN MUSIC, THEATRE AND ALL PERFORMING ARTS?

Why doesn't Stephen Fry call for a ban on Russian music, theatre and all performing arts?

Stephen Fry has written an impassioned open letter to the Prime Minister and the International Olympic Committee

'An absolute ban on the Russian Winter Olympics of 2014 on Sochi is simply essential,' says Stephen Fry in an impassioned letter to the Prime Minister and the International Olympic Committee, apparently written on behalf of the entire civilised world.

By ‘civilised’, one assumes he means the superior, enlightened and cultured proponents of equality and human rights, as opposed to the barbaric hordes whose primitive tribal impulses seek to outlaw the propagation of ‘non-traditional’ sexual orientations, ban gay-pride marches and prohibit the adoption of children by same-sex couples, as President Putin seems determined to do.

These aggressive anti-gay laws are repugnant and so merit an ‘absolute ban’ on the 2014 winter games, according to Fry. Just as the Führer was gleefully empowered by the 1936 spectacle in Berlin, so the Russian President will doubtless exploit his country’s games for political advantage on the world stage. And a savage like him simply should not be honoured with the Olympic brand; the Five Rings ought not to be sullied by association with Putin, who is ‘making scapegoats of gay people, just as Hitler did Jews’.

I don’t want to dwell on Fry’s association of the 2014 Sochi winter games with the 1936 Olympiad in Berlin: the systematic incineration of six million Jews in industrial ovens bears no comparison with the marginalisation and repression of minorities in Putin’s Russia, as shocking and deplorable as their ‘beatings, murders and humiliations’ undoubtedly are. I am more puzzled that an actor of the intelligence and calibre of Stephen Fry missed a golden opportunity to highlight the fact that Hitler persecuted gays as well.



The pink triangle was nowhere near as prevalent as the Jewish Star, but at least 100,000 gays were targeted for torture or castration by the Nazis, and somewhere between 5,000 and 15,000 are estimated to have perished horribly in the death camps. So why they didn’t get a mention in this letter is a little mystifying.

Stephen Fry is not without clout: he has six million Twitter followers – a colossal cyber-platoon which he has readily deployed in the past to mobilise support for his latest grievance du jour. He primes and pokes, and they obligingly agitate and demonstrate by screaming their objections and questions. Then they tweet and re-tweet their defiance and disapproval in concentric circles of engineered outrage, flooding the target of their ire with a tsunami of derision and displeasure. Invariably, their chosen victim is harassed into submission and bullied into issuing a grovelling apology, whether earnest or not.

The Auschwitz Museum: At least 100,000 gays were targeted for torture or castration by the Nazis, and somewhere between 5,000 and 15,000 are estimated to have perished horribly in the death camps

So, instead of pleading with David Cameron and grandstanding to the IOC – over which the Prime Minister has no power or influence at all – why doesn’t Stephen Fry call for a ban on British engagement with Russian music, theatre and all performing arts? Why doesn’t he demand a boycott of Chekhov, Gorky, Gogol and Griboyedov? Why doesn’t he demand a ban on Prokofiev, Pushkin, Mussorgsky, Tchaikovsky and Turgenev?

I’m not suggesting that UK companies abandon their planned productions of The Cherry Orchard, The Seagull, The Three Sisters, A Month in the Country, The Government Inspector or The Brothers Karamazov – all of which seem to playing somewhere in the UK over the summer. I’m saying that Fry’s rationale for a sporting boycott of Russia can logically be extended to an artistic one; indeed, it is far more attainable since that is the profession in which Stephen Fry manifestly has hundreds of very influential contacts and holds considerable influence as a theatrical knight-in-waiting (it will come). That is where his campaign ought to begin.

The excellent Cheek by Jowl theatre company, for example, frequently performs plays in Russian, and they are planning to take Shakespeare’s Twelfth Night to the Mossovet Theatre in Moscow next month. There’s nothing subversive about it: it doesn’t equate Putin with the puritan Malvolio, or portray Viola as a revolutionary member of Pussy Riot – all of which may well justify an incursion into dangerous territory to show Russian scorn her own image. It is funded by the National Lottery and supported by the Arts Council of England. Why doesn’t Stephen Fry demand a ban on this tour?

Russian President Vladimir Putin will doubtless exploit his country's games for political advantage on the world stage

Why doesn’t he urge British tourists and ex-pats to boycott the opulent $700 million onyx-and-crystal Mariinsky Theatre in St Petersburg? This cultural crown is just as much a part of Russia’s global ambitions as next year’s Winter Olympics. The recent champagne-swilling opening gala was headlined by Placido Domingo, and the guest of honour was an unsmiling Vladimir Putin. Why doesn’t Fry phone his mate Placido and organise a global artistic embargo?

And what about the Bolshoi? In November they are staging a series of Britten Concerts in honour of composer’s centennial. Surely Russia’s sequinned opera singers and ballet dancers are as worthy of a total ban as their finely-tuned sportsmen and women?

And then there’s Moscow’s terrific Lenkom – a daring experimental theatre. And the Satirikon, the Sovremennik and the Moscow Arts Theatre, famous for Stanislavsky. Not to mention the Moscow Academic Satire Theatre, the Moscow Variety Theatre, and the excellent Malyi Theatre.

Why doesn’t Stephen Fry foment his six million followers into demanding that Brits boycott all of the above, with an ‘absolute ban’ on all UK performing arts engagement with Russia? This would be well within his sphere of influence and would make a real, lasting and dramatic impact.



He won’t, of course, because his fellow actors, dancers and musicians are notoriously poorly paid, and are likely to ignore him. Far easier to pontificate to scurvy politicians and preach about evil in someone else’s church. There is no Equity in Russia, no guarantee of paid work and no minimum wage when you get it. Every contract in the arts world is highly prized, and plans are already well-advanced for next year’s cultural Olympiad to coincide with the games.

Fry says: ‘The summer Olympics of 2012 were one of the most glorious moments of my life and the life of my country.’ As they were for many of us, not least because the daily ecstasies and exhilarations lifted us beyond the mundane drudge of everyday life. But Stephen Fry would seek to deny such delight and elation to the downtrodden, poverty-stricken and unemployed people of Russia. It isn’t all vodka shots in the Kremlin: those that have somewhere to sleep at night often share kitchens and toilets with five other families. The Winter Olympics are a welcome distraction from cabbage soup.

This call for a ban represents no personal sacrifice at all to Fry himself; nor does it constitute any hardship for his fellow actors and artists. It is a haughty and detached gesture which harms the innocent and penalises Russia’s outstanding sportsmen and women who will be deprived of their chance to inspire the very generation which might sweep Putin and his thugs from power.

By all means demand a ban on the Winter Olympics or a boycott of Russian sport if you must, but its theatre, music, opera and ballet bring just as much honour and glory to Putin as cross-country skiing, figure skating, bobsleighing and the biathlon: it is all culture readily appropriated for political purposes.

====== 2267 ========

CLIVE ASLET: THE TEACHER WHO CHANGED MY LIFE DIED AND MY ONE REGRET IS I NEVER THANKED HIM

The teacher who changed my life: In this moving tribute to his old English master, who's just died, CLIVE ASLET says his one regret is he never thanked him



Classroom colossus: Frank Miles was an English master at King's College School in Wimbledon

A fortnight ago I heard that the English master who taught me at school, the great Frank Miles, had died, aged 92. I say great — he was great to us, the ones for whom reading came to matter so much as a result of his highly individual influence.

Although he was a teaching giant, and recognised as such by former pupils and colleagues, there is barely a mention of him on the internet. That is exactly as he would have wanted it: modern communication methods were not for him.



He only just tolerated the telephone; a telephone which rang at an inopportune moment, such as when he was marking essays or exam papers, could easily be thrown out of the window. And that was in the Seventies, when landlines were cherished.



He would have despised the internet and the cult of self-publicity that it has spawned. He was, in many ways, a very private man.



But when he was teaching, Frank made his uncompromising views extremely plain. The classroom was his theatre. His performances were, in the true sense of the word, awesome — he held us spellbound.



By the time I arrived in his set, in the late Sixties, he had already been teaching for around 20 years, all of them at King’s College School, Wimbledon.



In physical presence he was, I suppose, quite slight. But to a boy in the fifth form his reputation made him seem several times lifesize. That reputation alone was enough to instil fear into the idle and quell the unruly.



He barely had to do anything to keep order. His arrival, always after we had gathered for class — his auburn hair neatly brushed, blue blazer spotless, brogues gleaming — caused us all to fall silent, instantly. It was always the same entrance.



Lessons would begin with what a friend has described as ‘a ferocious, almost neurotic intensity’. They could be very funny, as long as the class — or set, as it was called at school — was performing to the highest level.

Frank’s put-downs were annihilating. No boy whose formative years were exposed to the onslaught of that slightly world-weary light tenor voice could ever forget it.



At Frank’s funeral this week, several of us confessed that we could hear it still, on a daily basis. His values were austere and Olympian.



I still feel guilty when I read novels by Anthony Trollope, whom Frank witheringly condemned as a hack writer, simply because he wrote 2,000 words before breakfast and then headed out to his day job in the Post Office — a feat that, as a journalist, I later came to admire.



After the first homework I ever did for him, Frank judged the standard so poor throughout the entire class that he tore up every halting composition and threw it in the bin. All except one, and I blush to write that the piece saved from oblivion was mine. It would have been much better for me if someone else’s effort had been picked.



While I strove to maintain the standard that had been set for me, I was inevitably toppled from the pinnacle before very long. But for part of one term I basked in a glory that I had never achieved before, nor would ever do again.



Frank determined my life’s path. He got me into Cambridge University. Nobody else could have done that.



'By today’s standards he was deeply politically incorrect and had precious little time for rules and regulations. In fact, in the modern bureaucratic world he would be the teaching establishment’s worst nightmare.'

He was certainly idiosyncratic and at times plain bonkers. He was highly opinionated and brooked little dissent from those who disagreed with him. By today’s standards he was deeply politically incorrect and had precious little time for rules and regulations.



In fact, in the modern bureaucratic world he would be the teaching establishment’s worst nightmare.



Yet he was a truly inspirational teacher who held his class in rapt attention. Because, above all, he had a complete passion not only for his subject but also for education. What was most important to him was his pupils’ intellectual grasp of English, and he was not afraid to tell his charges when they were failing to reach his high standards.



He would have been utterly dismayed by so much of today’s teaching orthodoxy of low expectations and equality of achievement, a culture in which no pupil can be seen to fail.



As I write this article, I hear him on my shoulder. Heavens, Aslet, do not be superficial. Remarks of this kind would be followed by the pop-eyed stare that was a stock-in-trade.



I’ve been remembering the stare, along with Frank’s other peccadilloes, because of a flurry of emails that have appeared on the internet between his old pupils. I don’t mean my contemporaries.

There have been emails from men who were taught by him in the Fifties, and from others who caught the last of his reign in the early Eighties.



Aside from his brilliance as a teacher, all of us dwell on the same things. The handkerchief produced for dramatic effect, before a flamboyant swipe of his nose. His spontaneous generosity: ‘Take mine,’ he once said to a boy who was without a writing implement, giving him a silver propelling pencil, adding, ‘You can keep that.’ He gave me the complete works of Chaucer.

Prestigious: King's College School in Wimbledon, where Mr Miles spent his entire teaching career

It wasn’t unknown for him to lend his car, a Rover, which was considered quite a racy vehicle at the time, to pupils who held driving licences.



That might appear reckless in the extreme, but to us it seemed to epitomise his cavalier contempt for ordinary rules. Frank was so furious at having to wear a seatbelt when the law requiring drivers to do so came in that he abandoned his car for a time.



All of Frank’s career was spent at KCS, as we called the school, and he lived next door to it in a handsome villa called Gothic Lodge.



The flat below his was occupied by Sir Michael Havers, the Attorney General, and we were all thrilled when a Gothic police box was erected outside the front door for security in those days when the IRA was a serious threat.



In 1981, the IRA succeeded in evading the policeman by going round the back. That evening, Frank went to bed early after, inevitably, a tiring marking session, and half an hour later a bomb went off. If he had still been sitting next to the window, marking, it would have taken his head off.



The next morning, his set were amazed to find that Frank was behind his desk as they filed into the classroom. From under the desk he produced a jeroboam of champagne, to toast his survival.



'While some words were expunged, extraordinary words became embedded in our young lexicon. I shall never forget Frank chalking onto the blackboard a construction that began with "eschatological"'



Typically, he wanted to enjoy this offering of thanks with his pupils, not his colleagues or friends.



As for Havers, he escaped unscathed because he was out, although he never enquired about the man who was nearly killed in his stead.



Once in a while, a gang of us would be invited to dinner. The meal and the wine would be sumptuous and some boys overindulged, with the usual consequences. I don’t think anyone was actually ill beside the antique mahogany furniture, but Frank would not have shown the least surprise.



He was a stoic, on whom the foibles of the world could have no effect. Of course, he was not without foibles himself. His mannerisms and language lent themselves so well to imitation that the image of boys pretending to be Frank is sometimes more vivid than the memory of Frank himself.



Oh dear, Frank would not have let me get away with the last sentence. The word ‘vivid’ was forbidden. I never entirely understood what he had against it; even so, it must have been 20 years before I dared to use it in print.



While some words were expunged, extraordinary words became embedded in our young lexicon. I shall never forget Frank chalking onto the blackboard a construction that began with ‘eschatological’ (it means, pertaining to the end of the world), which was not to be confused with ‘scatological’ (a preoccupation with filth), which meant the same as ‘coprological’ and ‘cloacal’, from cloaca... ‘the Latin for sewer, d’you see?’ he would say.



Other recruits to our vocabulary were contumacious (wilfully disobedient), banausic (utilitarian), excoriate (verbally flay), otiose (indolent or useless), nimiety (superfluity) and many more. There were some doubles, too, as in ‘egregious solecism’ (conspicuously bad mistake), and such florid language inevitably resulted in bouts of pretentiousness among his young students.



Schoolboy: Clive Aslet as a young man in 1977

One of Frank’s pupils, on a school exchange to the U.S., stayed in the house of a postman. When asked if the steak was cooked to his liking, he could not help saying that it satisfied his ‘atavistic propensities’ (primitive inclinations). I’m afraid we became like that. Some grew out of it.



There were more than half a dozen professors of English and several other university academics at his funeral. Their careers are, in part, a testament to their teacher. In the pub afterwards, we discussed — just as we might have done at school — the never-ending question: who was Frank?



He once told me how lucky I was to come from a loving family. He had not got on with his father. Other than that, his childhood — let alone his emotional life — was, to us, a complete blank.



Like Hector, a popular teacher played by Richard Griffiths in Alan Bennett’s play The History Boys, he lived for his pupils. If other relationships had once existed, nobody knew about them. Unlike Hector, he was not, as far as we could tell, homosexual.



Had there, in the past, been a grand amour that went wrong? A rumour, handed down through the years like a family heirloom, suggested that he had once had a nervous breakdown, as a novice in the classroom, because he couldn’t keep order. This idea, lthough current for decades, couldn’t have been true.



He had been a captain during the Second World War, and once remarked on a pillbox he had built on Leith Hill in Surrey; and he had served in India and Persia. Someone who was used to keeping squaddies in line would not have had a problem with small boys.



The war had broken out as he left school, and he went straight into the Army. After 1945 he experienced an intellectual awakening at Cambridge, where he studied under the austere and, to him, godlike literary critic F.R. Leavis.



These were the years of postwar reconstruction; a time for serious men who could rebuild the world as a better place. Leavis made the study of English literature serious; his method was detailed analysis of the texts.



He allowed few authors into the canon of literature he considered truly great, beyond half a dozen novelists, Shakespeare and the 17th-century metaphysical poets such as John Donne. Even John Milton was suspect, because his verse was considered too remote from the tone of the spoken voice.



Armed with Leavis’s formidable prejudices, Frank appeared at King’s College, Wimbledon — and never left.



I may have given the impression that the school was privileged. So it was. It was unashamedly academic. But while the parents of most boys had to pay fees, many did not.



Under a system similar to that of the direct grant grammar schools that the Labour government ended in 1976, a quarter of the places were filled by scholars funded by the local education authority.



Of course, in those days LEAs cared about bright pupils achieving at the highest level.

King’s was not, however, the superbly equipped powerhouse that, in line with other private schools, it has now become. Nor were the fees so astronomic.

Frank would have taught anyone who showed a spark of aptitude for his subject — as well as our top set, he taught the bottom set on principle, determined to raise standards. He was particularly pleased when a boy who had previously been written off could be raised to achieve spectacular results.



Although he despised snobbery and money, he could fairly be called an elitist — but only in the sense that he expected the best from every boy he taught, whatever their background or potential.



There were, of course, a few terrible teachers in those days. I remember hearing of boys lighting a fire during one lesson given by a hopeless alcoholic. I’m told that some cooked fish fingers over a Primus stove during another.



I was lucky to come under the eye of a classroom colossus. Sadly, Frank did not find relationships outside the classroom easy. He became a recluse in his last decade and died in a bare council flat.



And the tragedy is that I never told him how much he influenced my life — and that of so many others.



====== 2268 ========

HOW TEXTING MADE HISTORY BUT RUINED OUR LANGUAGE - AND PLENTY OF MARRIAGES!

On the 20th anniversary of the first mobile phone text message... How texting made history but ruined our language - and plenty of marriages!

Killing interpersonal interaction? Britons send over 3 billion texts a week

Exactly 20 years ago on December 3, 1992, Neil Papworth, a 22-year-old technician was sitting at a computer terminal in Vodafone’s Newbury HQ, where the company were having their Christmas party.



Imbued with festive spirit, Papworth sent the telenote message ‘Merry Christmas’ from his computer to technical director Richard Jarvis’s Orbitel 901 phone. Little did he know that two decades later, telenotes would be called texts; the trillions sent around the world would generate an annual £73.5 billion; 3 billion texts a week would be sent in the UK alone ... and absolutely nobody would text ‘Christmas’ when ‘Xmas’ would do.



Texts have changed the way we write, obliterating conventional punctuations and replacing properly spelled words with abbreviations, initials and ‘emoticon’ smiley symbols. Last year the word ‘sexting’ (sending explicit images of yourself with a text) entered the Oxford dictionary, while it was revealed that one-in-ten twentysomethings have texted while having sex.



These days no celebrity sex scandal or political revelation is complete without embarrassing and incriminating text evidence, nor do any major events go by without instant text commentary.



The average Briton now sends around 50 texts a week and is more likely to text friends and family than talk to them.



But some observers claim that the joy of texts may be waning as instant messaging and social media like Facebook, Twitter and Skype provide free, more public communication. In the meantime, here are some of the most outrageous, newsworthy, moving and shocking texts from the past two decades:



Burp



Sent in June 1993 by Brennan Hayden, an engineer for an Irish telecoms company, working in Los Angeles. This was the first paid-for, commercial text. Hayden jokily chose the word ‘burp’ because he saw the medium as a new baby.



I’m gonna be here always xx But are you OK? xx



Sent by Amy Winehouse to her friend Kristian Marr at 3.10am on July 23, 2011. Marr was asleep when it came through. By the time he woke up, she was dead.

Smoke from World Trade Centre in New York after it was hit by a plane: Texts were used to inform the emergency services about the disaster

WTC has been hit by an airplane and a bomb. currently b6 is being evacuated. updates will follow



Texts sent by the police and emergency services in New York after American Airlines Flight 111 crashes into the World Trade Centre on September 11, 2001.

Thatcher has died



Sent on November 12, 2009, by Canada’s transport minister John Baird to a constituent who happened to be at a black-tie gala in Toronto. What appeared to be the news of the former British PM’s passing instantly spread among the guests and soon the Canadian government was preparing its message of condolence. Only then was it revealed that Baird had been referring to his beloved, but now deceased cat Thatcher — named after Maggie, his political heroine.



Fast, unpredictable and hard to control but fun



Sent in October 2009 by David Cameron to News International chief executive Rebekah Brooks. The innuendo-laden words referred to a horse Cameron had been lent by Brooks’s husband, Charlie. They were part of a surprisingly intimate exchange of texts between the pair, just before the Tory conference.



Brooks, who had swung News International behind the Tories gushed: ‘I am so rooting for you tomorrow not just as proud friend but because professionally we’re definitely in this together!... Speech of your life? Yes he Cam!’



I beg u keep this between us x …Please delete all texts ill have no balls left



Sent by Ashley Cole on October 4, 2008, shortly after his first sex-session with a lover who has remained anonymous. Cole later texted a number of explicit photos to the young woman.



One of a number of extra-marital affairs that Cole indulged in, all with full text commentary, before his outraged wife Cheryl texted . . .

Move out. It’s over on February 22, 2010, ending their marriage.

Text trouble: David Beckham apparently had text evidence of his alleged affair with his children's nanny Rebecca Loos

U should see me, naked with only a white cotton G-string



One of a number of texts allegedly sent by Rebecca Loos to David Beckham, while he was playing for Real Madrid and she was his personal assistant. Loos produced a sequence of explicit alleged messages between the pair. Amid a global media storm Beckham called her suggestions of an affair ‘ludicrous’.



I will leave an envelope at the front desk under ms daniels. Your room will be 305. Get settled and let me know J when you are ready to see me. I will be in room 201. You can come down the stair well next to your room. Make sure absolutely no one sees you



Sent on July 30, 2009, by married father-of-two Tiger Woods to his porn star lover Josly James (real name, Veronica Siwik-Daniels), at the start of their affair.



Will you marry me?



The first known text proposal, sent in 1999 by salesman Grant Strange to his girlfriend, who responded: ‘Yes. Yes. Yes. XXX’



The razor-toothed piranhas of the genera Serrasalmus and Pygocentrus are the most ferocious freshwater fish in the world. In reality they seldom attack a human



The 26-word, 160-character (with spaces) message used by Guinness World Records to measure speed texting. The current record of 25.94 seconds was set on August 22, 2010, by Melissa Thompson, 27, from Salford, Greater Manchester.

England cricketer Kevin Pietersen got into trouble over texts he sent insulting the captain Andrew Strauss

Doos



An Afrikaans expletive, meaning ‘dumb c***’ that was part of one of the texts allegedly sent to his South African compatriots by England Test cricketer Kevin Pietersen, attacking captain Andrew Strauss (also born in South Africa).

A crazy man is shooting here



Sent at 5.10 on July 22, 2011, by Norwegian teenager Julie Bremnes, trapped on Utoeya Island. So began perhaps the most chilling sequence of texts ever. For the next two hours, Julie and her mother Marianne messaged back and forth while Anders Breivik went on his killing spree, shooting 69 victims. They provide a minute-by-minute account of the horror.

Amanda Knox was accused of murdering Meredith Kercher and a text message sent to her boss Patrick Lumumba was used as evidence in her highly publicised trial

Sure. See you later. Have a good evening



Sent on November 1, 2007, by American student Amanda Knox to Patrick Lumumba, boss of Le Chic, the bar in Perugia, Italy, where she worked, after he had told her she would not be needed that night.



Jeremy Hunt text his friend James Murdoch regarding the BSkyB bid- for which Hunt was later made responsible for

Knox later accused Lumumba of murdering her British flatmate Meredith Kercher. This text was taken by prosecutors as proof that the pair had, in fact, conspired together.



Knox had denied sending the text. Her supporters maintained that ‘see you later’ was just a turn of phrase, not a literal suggestion that they would in fact meet up. In the end both Lumumba and Knox were acquitted of the killing.

Great and congrats on Brussels. Just Ofcom to go



Sent in December 2010 by then Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt to News Corp executive James Murdoch, after learning that the EU had cleared the company’s bid for BSkyB.



====== 2269 ========

TRAYVON MARTIN MILLION HOODIE MARCH: WAKE UP, AMERICA! JUSTICE MUST BE DONE

Wake up, America! Justice must be done for Trayvon Martin



Today Black America is in uproar, its eyes fixed on a small town north of Orlando, Florida. In fact, right now, every sentient, right-minded American should be in uproar. Irrespective of their ethnicity or hue, everyone should be both incensed and repulsed by the deeply shocking case of Trayvon Martin, the unarmed, 17-year-old African-American youth killed last month by George Zimmerman, a neighbourhood watch volunteer in Sanford, Florida for acting suspiciously (effectively wearing a hoodie) - and it seems, for being the wrong colour.

Almost one month on from this incident, Zimmerman has not been arrested - even though he confessed to the killing - because he insists he acted in self-defence. Under the permissive Floridian law, with no other witnesses and a lack of further evidence, the legal technicality of “stand your ground” combined with the use of deadly force has thus far ensured that he cannot be arrested.

The black teenager Martin had merely popped out whilst watching the game on TV to get a snack at the local shop, and was walking back to his father’s fiancee’s house when he was spotted by Zimmerman. The neighbourhood watchman, armed with a gun, trailed the boy in his car, then called 911, telling the operator that there was a “suspicious person in the area.” An altercation between Zimmerman and Martin duly ensued and neighbours heard gunfire which subsequently proved to be fatal.

Many black Americans believe race played a major part both in this killing and in the resultant lack of prosecution. We will never know for sure whether Zimmerman shot Martin because he was black, but there is certainly much empirical evidence to suggest that the American criminal justice system does not value black lives as much as white ones.

At the time of his death, police found that Trayvon was carrying a packet of skittles in one pocket and a bottle of iced tea in the other. Correct me if I'm wrong, but since when have a packet of skittles and a bottle of iced tea become the de rigueur weapons of choice for criminals and wrong-doers?

Are we seriously expected to believe that this was merely an over-zealous community stalwart engaged in nobly protecting his exclusive gated community from potential marauders? Or was it a case of a racist, trigger-happy thug claiming a wholly innocent life? Unfortunately, at the moment it seems there will be no trial to resolve the issue, but many Americans have already made up their minds. They believe the only thing “suspicious” about Trayvon Martin was his black skin.

Although it seems to many as if the shooting was racially motivated, we cannot be 100 per cent sure. What we can, tragically, be sure of is that Martin is dead. Moreover, being a neighbourhood watchman does not make one a policeman, or give anyone the right to take matters into their own hands, however well-intentioned they may initially have been. What is also clear is that Florida's "stand your ground" law has much to answer for and is quite possibly one of the major culprits here.

Finally on Tuesday, only after much pressure from the NAACP and other civil rights organisations, federal prosecutors opened an inquiry into the killing. Yesterday, a “Million Hoodie March” took place in New York. Today a rally is scheduled to take place in Sanford to protest this appalling injustice.

I am, as it happens, no particular fan of hoodies. I think that baggy jeans, bandanas, hoodies and other such accoutrements of “urban streetware” (as purveyed by many rappers) have much to answer for, as I believe they are detrimental to the positive representation of young people. But let us make no bones about it: a wholly innocent, unarmed kid does not deserve to be slain for an innocuous sartorial statement.

If I were an African-American, I would be taking to the streets right now to protest for justice for Trayvon. As a mixed-race Brit, I am merely thankful that such a climate of pernicious racism – a climate of palpable hatred, suspicion and distrust upon which much of American history and culture is sadly based – is, for the most part, noticeably absent in Britain.

Speaking out: Trayvon Martin's parents Tracy Martin, centre, and Sybrina Fulton, right, took part in the 'Million Hoodie March' in New York's Union Square

Race and gun laws are a veritable minefield in the US. They have never been easy bedfellows and I don't believe they ever will be. Although it will be scant comfort to his grieving family, I can only hope that the senseless death of Trayvon Martin can seek to highlight the viciously unfair part that race continues to play in justice in the US.

Yet again, a great nation – and let me unequivocally state that I do think America is great in many respects - is seen on the world stage to be blighted by the iniquitous canker of racism and divided by the ugly spectre of justice not being done because of a man’s race.

In 2012, when at the same time we can send men into space and to the bottom of the ocean (only yesterday film director James Cameron descended to the bottom of the Mariana Trench), the fact that life-changing judgements are still being made based on the colour of a man’s skin needs to be rectified immediately.

White America simply cannot be allowed to ignore such an apparent injustice or let it pass unheeded. This case is quickly becoming a crucial cultural touchstone, one which is in grave danger of defining the current zeitgeist. Sadly, this is yet another body-blow straight to the solar plexus of post-racial America, a post-racial America that we all hoped was possible (albeit unrealistically) in the wake of Obama’s election.

The raw embers of civil-rights era racial tensions in Sanford have, unfortunately, been stoked by this incident. One can only hope that such tensions will be diffused in the town and that it will not descend into a racial feud. But for that not to happen, those with power must be seen to care about the lives (and deaths) of the little people, and in this case, an unarmed black teenager walking to the local store for some sweets.

Not only must justice be done, but justice must also be seen to be done. How else can African-Americans ever feel that their lives are worth as much as those of their white compatriots? A country which was effectively built on the back of centuries of their (free and, it should be said, coerced) labour without a doubt owes them much more.

As the English post-war playwright Terence Rattigan famously implored in his seminal masterpiece The Winslow Boy (a play about innocence, decency and truth), “Let right be done!”

Wake up, America, wake up! Trayvon deserves as much, and so much more besides.





====== 2270 ========

TRAGEDY OF CHILDREN CONDEMNED WITH DRUG ADDICT PARENTS

The tragedy of children condemned with drug addict parents

We cannot begin to imagine the final hours of little Declan Hainey.

We don’t know how long the toddler lay in the filthy squalor where he was abandoned by his heroin addict mother.

We can only assume he died a lonely, hungry, agonisingly slow death amid the stinking piles of debris and drug paraphanelia, while his mother sold his toys and clothes as he lay dead in his cot.



Shame: Kimberley Hainey murdered her 23-month-old son and concealed his death

It’s almost unthinkable that this level of neglect is part of the story of life in pockets of our country these days. But it is.

And today, as Kimberley Hainey, 37, the monster who gave Declan life, was sentenced to a minimum of 15 years in jail for his murder, we, as a society should draw a line in the sand.

No child should be condemned to this life of misery because they were brought into the world by a hopeless drug addict.

And if ever there is a cast iron case for a total re-think of drug addicts being allowed to keep their children, then it is this tragic murder of a 15-months-old Scottish toddler.

The poor little boy lay starving, in urine soaked nappies and filth while his mother pretended he was alive and carried on with her pathetic life.

For eight months between 2009 and 2010, she concealed his death and told neighbours he had gone to live with an aunt.

It was only when her parents finally went to the house that they discovered his mummified body in his cot.

The day before she was sentenced, the Crown Office in Scotland took the unusual step of revealing the shocking pictures of the house where Declan died.

They are among the most sickening images of we will ever see of the squalid pit where Declan was imprisoned in the months before his death.

While Hainey went out selling his clothes and toys, Declan lay for hours alone, amid the empty cider bottles and lager cans, putrid milk carton, half-eaten food, and discarded takeaway boxes.

A tiny coat still with the label still on it lay among the piles of rubbish.

Hainey was supposed to be off drugs – but the pictures tell a different story.

Next to the filth-strewn sofa, is a pile of used drugs paraphernalia, tin foil and a lighter.

And in the midst of all the squalor, a poignant reminder of what his life should have been for Declan - family snaps on the wall, a Christmas card including one which read ‘For a Special Grandson’.

As she was sentenced at the High Court in Glasgow, for murder and concealment of her son’s body, Lord Woolman told her: “Declan’s first birthday took place in April 2009, he appeared to have all his life in front of him.



Rubbish strewn cot: Declan Hainey's bed filled with waste including empty bottles of Irn-Bru, 3 Hammers cider, Lucozade, viodka and crisp packets

“He was surrounded by a loving family and people thought you were a loving mother . A few months later he was dead.”

Now we learn that the Crown Office are considering a Fatal Accident Inquiry into Declan’s death.

So they should be. If they don’t have one, there out to be a public outcry asking why.

The cause of Declan’s death is not known, but he is said to have last been seen when he was 15 months old. His body was discovered in March 2010, when he would have been 23 months old.

We have a right to know the details of how in this day and age a child can be left dead for eight months and nobody intervened.

During the trial we heard various reasons why Hainey’s life descended into the spiral of decay and drugs.

Post natal depression was one that was offered in court.

But that is not the issue here.

The trial was told she had been put on a methadone programme but was signed off after social workers said she and Declan were doing well.



Declan was last seen alive aged 15 months. His body was discovered in March 2010, when he would have been 23 months old

But Hainey then refused to co-operate with her drugs counsellor and made excuses over why no one could see the boy.

Why weren’t social workers breaking down her door?

How she came to be the kind of mother who abandoned her baby is anybody’s guess.

The issue, is where was the safety net that is supposed to save children like Hainey from a fate like this?

Time and again, our front pages scream outraged headlines when another toddler or child has been left to die.

And as inquiries and court cases unravel, we continually find that social workers were involved, but either missed the signs, or were too overworked.

But the bottom line is this.

Declan's clothes and toys can be seen amongst the squalor of the house in which he tragically died

How many more children have to die before the policy is changed not to give drug addict parents their children?

Just three years ago in Dundee, we had the tragic case of little Brandon Cunningham beaten stamped on by Robert Cunningham, the evil boyfriend of drug addict Heather Boyd. She had been selling her body for heroin the night her 23-month-old son died at the hands of her drug addict boyfriend.

The court heard that duodenum – part of the small intestine - was pressed against his spine until it burst.

We heard how doctors found at least 40 injuries on Brandon, including bruising and four fractured ribs.

Social workers had missed the warning signs, health visitors doctors failed to detect them.

In cases like this, there is always a knee jerk reaction asking where were the support teams.

Of course in the case of Brandon and Declan they utterly failed in their job, and their failure led to the deaths of two beautiful little boys.

It’s not more social workers we need to cope with the rise of child neglect through drugs and deprivation.

It’s a fundamental change in policy towards drug addicts and their children.

During years as a frontline reporter in Glasgow I worked on drugs investigation and spent time with families.

I have seen at first hand, young mothers swallowed up by the scourge of heroin, being backed by social workers because they want to keep families together.

Of course, somewhere in a drug addicts fuddled mind they will want to keep their children.

But the fact is, a heroin addict stumbles through each day shoplifting or working as a prostitute to feed their habit.

