Making enough money for drugs is their first priority – not their child.

I once went to a house where the prostitute heroin addict mother was selling sex for a fiver a time, to get enough money to get her portable TV back because she was getting her little girl for the weekend. She had given the television to her drug dealer to pay off some of her drug debts. She was living in squalor, yet social workers wanted to keep the family together.



Drug addiction trumps all other desires- including the desire to care for a child

I have no doubt the woman loved her toddler. But she loved heroin more.

When are we going to realise allowing drug addict parents to keep their children just doesn’t work?

It will never work.

A drug addict will sell everything to get their next fix. They will steal from their parents, sell the furniture - they will sell their child if it comes to it.

And as is tragically obvious from Hainey’s case, they will leave their child to die, because drug addicts are not thinking on any rational level.

We continually hear of people turned down for adoption because they are too fat, too old, the wrong race.

Yet social workers who make decisions that don’t just change lives but that can actually save lives or condemn a child to death, just don’t see it, that a child would have a better chance if it was taken away from drug addict parents.

If a drug addict was clear of drugs for three years, then perhaps they deserve the chance of restricted, supervised access to their child.

We cannot keep taking chances with children’s lives by prioritising the need for a family to be together.

The child is the only priority here.









====== 2271 ========

THE LIBERAL DEMOCRATS, WITH OR WITHOUT MR CABLE AT THE HELM, WOULD STEER US ONTO THE ROCKS

The Liberal Democrats, with or without Dr Cable at the helm, would steer us onto the rocks

The Business Secretary, Vince Cable (69) says that 'the worship of youth is 'subsiding' and 'people who have had some insight into what is going on' are more appreciated.

Leadership: Vince Cable, Business secretary, has recently hinted that he may run for leader of the Liberal Democrats

If he is against the yoof culture, why does he call himself 'Vince'? If he knows what is going on, why doesn't he, as a government minister, do something about it?

Within The Liberal Democrats (which isn't saying much) he commands more respect than Nick Clegg. Clearly, he wants the leadership but hesitates before doing anything as honourable as making an open bid for it.

Dr Cable has had experience in the business world, which is more than can be said of Dave, George, Ed and Nick, mere striplings all of them. But has he made any valuable use of it? Or are his current posturings on the sins of bankers and newspaper proprietors merely grandstandings, playing to the sandalled gallery?

Our country is looking into the abyss of social disintegration, Euro-meltdown and Middle East war. But The Liberal Democrats, with or without Vince Cable at the helm, would steer us straight onto the rocks. Wind farms won't provide the economic power to restore our national economic health and avoid catastrophe.

Dr Cable should follow his natural instincts by resigning his Cabinet post, standing for the leadership of his party on a ticket of leaving the Coalition, and then returning to the position of total irrelevance that he occupied so comfortably before.

====== 2272 ========

IMMIGRATION MINISTER DAMIAN GREEN IS DRAGGING THE DYSFUNCTIONAL STUDENT VISA SYSTEM INTO THE DAYLIGHT. ABOUT TIME TOO.

Damian Green is dragging the dysfunctional student visa system into the daylight. About time too.

Damian Green: The Immigration Minister plans to toughen up the student visa system

Listening to the BBC’s grilling of immigration minister Damian Green, one would think he was here on an illegal visa or a student failing to return to his country of origin, rather than welcoming the fact that the Home Office is conducting a more stringent process of issuing student immigration visas.



The sheer, flagrant corruption of our dysfunctional student visa system is finally being dragged into the daylight. Will any of these students be deported? Don't bet on it. Stand by for a publicly-funded gold-rush for human rights lawyers, more likely.



Of course the National Union of Students and former Home Office minister, Keith Vaz, are jumping on the bash-the-Government bandwagon.



Does Mr Vaz have anything of substance to say? For instance, how he stemmed the tide of immigration during his government’s tenure, or fortified the student visa scheme to make it more robust?



The NUS’s leader, Liam Burns, is a Labour-supporting physics graduate who could better serve his country and pay back the cost of his degree by seeking employment in the world of science. The UK is crying out for scientists, particularly in his field, and this would be a more laudable use of his talents than playing the champion of overseas students who are abusing our hospitality.



According to the National Union of Students, the industry is worth £12.5bn to the UK export industry. But what is the cost to the UK as a whole through leaky student visas and the failure of a system that allows immigrants to enter the black economy rather than returning to their country of origin after study?



I have no problem with overseas students accessing our universities and paying a premium to do so. The government is getting to grips with the bogus study centres which acted as visa-processing centres. Now they must get to grips with policing who has the right to be here under student visas in reputable universities. If they wish to stay on to work or to take further study, then that has to come under vigorous scrutiny. Vaz and Burns go against strong public opinion and should be more constructive in their criticism.



What makes interesting reading are the numbers and the countries of students applying to study here. One of the criticisms of the government against London Metropolitan University was the failure to assess the level of English required to study here. Of the top 10 non-EU student sending countries, only two had English as their first language: the United States and Canada.

According to the UK Council for International Student Affairs, the numbers studying by International (non-UK) students in UK HE in 2010-11 totalled 428,225, compared with 405,810 in 2009-10 (an increase of 6 per cent), with the students coming from the following countries:

Today I spoke to my local university who inform me that 7 per cent of their intake is currently from non-EU countries. I asked the principal whether he monitors the movement of his students once they obtain a visa. He said that when the students have left the university this was the job of the UK Border Agency. And therein lies the rub. Who is monitoring these students, who is checking them in and checking them out? The checking in has come under scrutiny, the checking out needs to be addressed - and urgently.



I have been a critic of the Conservative-led Government’s lack of urgency over this country’s immigration crisis – our porous borders, the Government's tardiness in deporting overseas criminals, and its failure to abolish the Human Rights Act and replace it with a British Bill of Rights.



All of this adds to our lack of control over our borders and our determination to decide who has the right to reside in our country.



The Lib Dems are, of course, the roadblock to reform. The Commission on a Bill of Rights established last year as a means of defusing the issue is required to complete its report by the end of this year. However, the members were carefully chosen to achieve approximate parity between those likely to support each of the two opposing positions. Their report is thus unlikely to resolve the conflict, which probably suits Messrs Cameron and Clegg.



====== 2273 ========

KEEPING DEBT PROBLEMS SECRET WON'T MAKE THEM GO AWAY. WE NEED TO STRIP AWAY THE SHAME AND TABOO SURROUNDING FINANCIAL STRUGGLES

Keeping debt problems secret won't cure them. We need to strip away the shame around financial struggles

The holidays are over, nights are drawing in and the feel good factor generated by the Olympics is already wearing thin. For most of us, September tends to signal a return to stark realities. This autumn, with no tangible improvement in our economic prospects on the horizon, for many people that will mean getting to grips with and facing up to some financial home truths.



A new study by the Co-operative Bank has found that people in relationships may be keeping as much as £41 billion of debts hidden from their partners, with more than one in 10 women and one in seven men confessing that they have debts which they keep secret from their partners.



It is not really surprising that people with mounting debts are too frightened or ashamed to come clean to even their nearest and dearest.



Economic woes: Shame and secrecy about money problems is apparently still rife

Admitting to financial struggles and debt problems is still somehow taboo, in our emotionally incontinent age where most people are happy to discuss openly and at length any number of their personal trials and tribulations, from incontinence to infidelity, from chronic addiction to cancer.



Yet the longer people struggle on alone with unmanageable debt, the more unmanageable it is bound to become. Desperate people clutch at straws and there is no coincidence that as the economy has limped along over the last few years and the credit crunch continues, the number of unregulated money lenders has exploded. Pawn brokers have not been this busy for decades while ostensibly legitimate pay-day loan companies with their astronomical rates of interest have proliferated to take advantage of this desperation.



More than 10 million people in the UK, 20 per cent of the adult population, are currently locked in a constant struggle with debt and more than 2.5 million are in arrears on at least one consumer credit product, household bill or other domestic payment. The economy still looks fragile in the extreme and households are struggling to make ends meet. Rising prices and flat wage growth mean it now takes an increasingly bigger chunk of household income to put food on the table, put petrol in the car and to heat the home.



There is nothing really new in the Cooperative Bank’s findings that women and men don’t always come clean to each other about their finances or simply operate a “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy about certain expenses. The Japanese tradition of heso-kuri, secret savings by housewives or belly button money, dates back to feudal times and is still, in the 21st century, such an important sector of the Japanese economy that it is estimated in official surveys and reports.



What is worrying is that shame and secrecy about money problems is apparently still so rife. With the economy still in the doldrums, these secrets are far less likely to be hidden savings in clandestine accounts but rather an out-of-control credit card bill, a store card with an obscene APR, used to pay for increasingly unaffordable treats or an online gambling or bingo habit that may seem to promise a solution to money woes but only compounds the problem.



There are several charities and free debt advice organisations available, including the Consumer Credit Counselling Service, the Citizens Advice Bureau and the National Debt Line. The sooner people avail themselves of this advice, the sooner they can prevent a difficult situation spiralling into an unmanageable one. There should be no stigma attached to asking for help.



Somehow, we have got to work to remove the taboo surrounding debt and financial struggles. It is not that long ago that alcoholism, drug addiction and cancer were barely whispered about and almost never discussed openly. We can now be far more candid about all these problems and nobody affected needs suffer any longer in silence.



====== 2274 ========

SONIA POULTON FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SONIA POULTON: By reducing the issue of sexual assault to little more than a type of 'sexual bad manners', Galloway has belittled the hell that many women have to endure when they have been raped. That of being disbelieved, or having their claims dismissed as exaggeration. ...read

====== 2275 ========

THE PARALYMPICS CELEBRATE THE STRENGTH OF DISABLED PEOPLE - AND SO DO ALL THE PROTESTS THAT ACCOMPANY THEM

The Paralympics celebrate the strength of disabled people – as do all the protests that accompany them

In a dazzling and, at times, death-defying display, Paralympics 2012 opened in spectacular style as the images whipped around the world for the pleasure of billions.



For those who were previously concerned that the ceremony would be a poor man's version of 'the main event' – The Olympics - such thoughts were deftly dispelled with the sheer scale and artistry before us.



It was a visual, and heart-warming, feast that challenged perceptions from the off.



Who, for example, could have imagined paralympian Baroness Grey Thompson arriving air-bound into the Olympic Stadium in her chariot-chair?



Dazzling: The opening ceremony of the Paralympics was a voyage of discovery, aptly called 'Enlightenment' and featured disabled gymnasts suspended from the stadium

How the event managed not to be cheesy or patronising I have no idea - but it did.



Directed by Jenny Sealey, who is deaf, the opening ceremony was bold and brave with larger-than-life theatrics and all-round good spirit that filled the Olympic Stadium once again.



By the time it closed, several hours later, I felt that same buoyancy and pride that swept the world a few short weeks ago during Olympic fever.



It was one of awe and of witnessing humanity at its best. A time when the human spirit is capable of pushing itself to unimaginable heights through sheer hard graft and tenacity.



The Paralympics, as countless observers have been quick to tell us, are the epitome of such human courage and fortitude.



Leaving aside the questionable prejudice of such a thought, many able-bodied people do view Paralympians as a type of 'Superhuman' - a widely regarded perception that Channel 4 capitalised on for their advertising - as opposed to the common-or-garden, regular athlete, that is.



Inspiring: Celebrating GB's previous Paralymic successes, former Paralympic athlete Tanni Grey-Thompson made a show-stopping entrance into the stadium

It's a seductive idea. The premise of a disabled athlete – that of someone who will pursue their goals despite the obstacles that may surround them, including the limitations of their own bodies – is a figure of great admiration for most wide-eyed observers.



But let us be under no illusion. A paralympian is no more like a regular disabled person than I am like Usain Bolt or Rebecca Adlington. Paralympians, just like Olympians, are unique in their field and should be regarded as such.



So, to be clear, paralympians are not a representation of the majority of disabled people. Even if Cameron and Co. would like us to buy into that belief.



That aside, last night's Opening Ceremony has left many people salivating over the coming few weeks where human endeavour will be displayed in all its finery.



How bizarre, then, that at the same time we are celebrating the achievements of disabled people worldwide, including our own GB team, thousands more disabled people are forced to campaign around the UK for what amounts to the most basic of human rights.



Sporting heroes: GB wheelchair tennis player Peter Norfolk carries the flag during the Opening Ceremony. GB are expected to notch up over 100 medals at the Games

For, despite the clear pride towards paralympians, and nowhere is that more evident than amongst the UK's disabled population, there is the proverbial elephant in the room that people cannot ignore and are no longer prepared to tolerate.



This year, despite widespread revulsion and opposition, David Cameron's Coalition has forced through some of the most punishing and harsh measures – via the Welfare Reform Bill - that disabled people have experienced in my lifetime.



Financial life-lines have been severed and state-assistance stripped back, and in some cases completely withdrawn, as disabled people are forced into a system that will lessen personal independence and increase state dependence. This will almost certainly result in 'disabled homes' up and down the country.



So, during the Paralympics, the anger and sense of betrayal felt by thousands of disabled people, and mostly contained within social network sites and on blogs, has erupted onto our streets and is refusing to be quiet.



For the next fortnight, the UK will witness numerous protests around the UK and led by hard-working campaign group, Disabled People Against Cuts (DPAC).



From London to Wales - and all points in between - campaigners, many of them disabled, are taking to the streets and shouting loud about the name they deplore the most (and are sponsors of the Paralympics), Atos.



For the uninitiated, Atos International is the French IT company behind the Coalition's controversial fit-to-work test, the Work Capability Assessment (WCA). It is considered the enemy of thousands of sick and disabled people and those who care for them.



In the year 2010-2011, Atos conducted approximately 738,000 WCA's, on behalf of the Department for Work and Pensions. The contract is a substantial one, and together with other Government departments, Atos enjoy a 3billion pounds deal with our country.



The WCA, a tick-box system has severe limitations, as outlined in a recent Channel 4 'Dispatches' programme and BBC's Panorama, and the problems are legendary. I am no fan of it and have outlined why in a previous piece.

Difficulty: The Welfare Reform Bill has been the subject of extensive criticism, and has been described as the most punishing measures introduced for decades

The upshot with WCA is that severely ill and disabled people are being ruled as sufficiently fit to be in gainful employment - although with over 2million unemployed and with the Coalition closing down Remploy factories, designed specifically for disabled workers, it would be interesting to see to which jobs they are planning to put these people.



The problem with Atos is that their system is instrumental in classifying people as fit-to-work when many patently are not.



According to research conducted by the Daily Mirror 32 people die each week in the UK after they have been ruled as fit and able to work.



For many people, subject to WCA and first introduced by Blair's Labour, the inclusion of ATOS as sponsors at the Paralympics, and in a role they have enjoyed for the past 10 years, is simply too much to bear.



This coupling - that of 'Superhuman' and 'killing machine' - is viewed as little more than Coalition-sanctioned propaganda - and on a global scale at that.



Some observers, failing to see the big picture, have asked why blame Atos when it is Chris Grayling's DWP who are responsible for the misery caused to disabled people?



They say it is the DWP who pay to retain the service of Atos so surely it is the DWP, solely, who should be on the receiving end of public opprobrium?



Frankly, that misses the point - and by a long and unintelligible one. It is not the DWP who are conducting tests to ascertain whether someone is capable for work or not, it is Atos and no-one has forced Atos to do it and rake in billions while they are about it.



Using the argument that they are only supplying a service and obeying orders is not dissimilar to the one trotted out by Nazi officers as they shepherded human beings into gas chambers. They were said to be merely conforming to requests, and they were, but it didn't clear them of their role in the barbaric treatment.



I support an abolition of the Work Capability Assessment. I believe we need a better and more robust system. To this end, I have launched my own appeal, and counter-signed by six thousand people, to Labour leader Ed Miliband to oppose the Coalition's use of WCA and Atos. It can be found here .

Campaign: For the next fortnight, the UK will witness numerous protests around the UK led by campaign group Disabled People Against Cuts (DPAC)

However, Atos sponsorship of the Paralympics is not the only reason people have turned out onto the streets to protest. They are also doing so out of fear.



For, aside from the all-out assault on disability rights from the Coalition, there is now the issue of how public perception is impacting disabled people.



Several hours before the opening ceremony of the Paralympics, Dr. Mark Bush, head of policy at disabled charity SCOPE, told SKY News that attitudes towards disabled people have 'hardened' in the last six months.



This is not just a deliberately emotive statement concocted for a soundbyte generation, but a fact that is backed up empirically where new statistics tell us that physical and verbal abuse towards disabled people is at its highest figure since records began.

So it is that one particularly pro-active member of the disabled community, Adam Lotun, has decided to take matters into his own hands and stand as a Prospective Parliamentary Candidate in the Corby by-election.



This position has become available following the resignation of out-going Tory MP Louise Mensch and Adam, despite his disabilities and sometime ill-health, has grasped the baton thrown down by Mensch - and is going for it.



As a front runner for disability issues and numerous direct action campaigns, Adam Lotun has his own physical and mobility impairments to contend with, including the use of a manual wheelchair. He uses two hearing aids, has Obstructive Sleep Apnoea - which requires a machine to help him sleep - and he has Crohn's disease.



Despite all this, I have seldom known more of a worthy or determined contender who deserves election to the House of Commons. A place that could benefit immeasurably from his personal knowledge and experience.



Disability is not theoretical to Adam, which it so patently is to the vast majority of the Coalition who remain embarrassingly ignorant of the issues.



Understanding: Adam Lotun is a front runner for disability issues and numerous direct action campaigns

Lotun knows what it is like to not be able to use public transport because his disability has failed, yet again, to be accommodated. He knows what it is like to turn up for another parliamentary debate only to find that he is obstructed from taking part because there are problems with wheelchair access. Most poignantly, he knows what it is like to try and support his young family despite the savage cuts he, and other disabled people, have experienced.



He told me: “I have decided to stand because I am disillusioned with the derogatory rhetoric and falsehoods that are spun out to the press. This has led to disabled people being demonised and vilified in the eyes of General Society.”



Indeed it has but the fightback from disabled campaigners is under way and the spirit of people is a sight to behold.



Take for example, Pat Onions, a feisty campaigner, who despite her own disabilities, has collected a phenomenal 43,000 signatures opposing Government cuts. Pat wanted to create a place where home-bound people could oppose George Osborne's lethal austerity measures and how they effect those who need assistance. Pat's Petition can be signed here.

So, let us remember, along with our cheers for the great human spirit that is the Paralympians, and away from the splendour of the Olympic Stadium, our disabled people have been treated as anything but heroes.



====== 2276 ========

DUMAS: 'WITHOUT EURO EXIT, GERMANY WILL SOON BE IN BIG TROUBLE'

Dumas: 'Without euro exit, Germany will soon be in big trouble'

A new analysis by the totally excellent economist Charles Dumas of Lombard Street Research has just dropped into my inbox. It suggests Germany should not, perhaps cannot, afford the euro.



The report is a meaty 35 pages, so for now I'll just give you the summary.



According to Dumas:



It is a myth that the German economy has gained from euro membership.

Its growth has decelerated. Its growth of productivity has halved.

Should they stay or go? New research suggests Germany, led by Chancellor Angela Merkel, should not, perhaps cannot, afford the euro

Its citizens have accepted severe wage restraint without the former benefit of a rising currency, leading to negligible gains in consumer welfare. The undervaluation granted by their wage restraint has benefited producers artificially, and weakened the incentive to cut out waste – hence lower productivity growth.



It is a myth that Germany can hold the euro together simply by subsidising Club Med, while the Mediterranean countries adjust their finances. Their savage fiscal deflation is slashing spending and income, and hence tax revenues, so that budget deficits scarcely improve.

Only with reversal of their excessive relative cost build-up vis-à-vis can growth return. But without depression in Club Med that can only occur within the euro if Germany accepts a wage/price inflationary spiral, as well as prolonged subsidy payments.



Recent recovery, dependent on grotesquely distorted Chinese policies, is subsiding, so overheating and inflation (which Germans anyhow hate) could require large budget deficits.

Opinion: Without euro-exit, Germany will soon be in big trouble. With it, growth can return

Alongside major understatement of the unavoidable disasters of keeping the current euro membership goes the myth that leaving the euro would make Germany seriously uncompetitive and unable to grow.



German consumers need the lower import costs that a rising currency would bring, to raise their spending power without wage inflation, and German businesses need the discipline of a higher real exchange rate to enforce productivity gains.



====== 2277 ========

PAUL RYAN'S ROUSING SPEECH IN TAMPA HAS PROPELLED THE MEDICARE DEBATE BACK INTO THE SPOTLIGHT

Paul Ryan's rousing speech in Tampa has cemented Medicare as the big issue splitting voters

Will Paul Ryan, the Republican vice presidential candidate, carry his team to victory in November? Judging from his Wednesday address to the Republican convention in Florida, the answer is yes.



Ryan’s attack on President Obama and his defence of Republican principles and the presidential candidate, Mitt Romney, has the Democrats wishing that Hurricane Isaac had hit Tampa instead of New Orleans.



Looking young and vigorous, with a well-fitting suit, he declared, 'I’ve never seen opponents so silent about their record, so desperate to keep power.' Obama got all the stimulus he wanted, Ryan continued, but the money was borrowed, spent, and wasted. Taxpayers just got more debt.



Campaigning: Republican vice presidential candidate Paul Ryan attacked President Obama, saying 'I've never seen opponents so silent about their record'

Ryan, speaking in Florida, a state with a larger concentration of older Americans, made a strong defence of his Medicare plan, the program which provides health services for seniors, as they are known in America.



Although his plan has been demonised by Democrats as a voucher program, Ryan pointed out that Obama took $716 billion from Medicare to fund the new health care law, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The Act, through its pruning of Medicare receipts, is the biggest threat to Medicare.



It’s lucky than Ryan wants to bring up Medicare, because the debate is in full swing.

Just Saturday, in his weekly radio address, Obama said of Republicans: 'They want to turn Medicare into a voucher program. That means that instead of being guaranteed Medicare, seniors would get a voucher to buy insurance, but it wouldn’t keep up with costs.'



Obama is wrong. “Voucher” does not appear in the Republican plan. The new plan would only apply to future seniors beginning in 2023. And they would continue to have a choice of traditional Medicare, as well as other plans, too.



Everyone here agrees that Medicare is in trouble. The Congressional Budget Office’s new estimates, released last week, raised projected Medicare spending by $136 billion over the next decade. Since Medicare was established more than 40 years ago, projections have gone in one direction: up.

Attack: President Obama has accused the Republicans of 'wanting to turn Medicare into a voucher program'

Speech: Paul Ryan made a strong defence of his Medicare plan, the program which provides health services for seniors

Yet Ryan’s plan to reform Medicare, adopted by the House Republicans last spring, is routinely vilified. The budget resolution and Medicare proposals are on the web site of the House Budget Committee. They can be found here .

Voucher programs give beneficiaries a set amount of money to use for a particular purpose—education, groceries, insurance—and to spend for any permitted school, plan, or product they prefer.



Ryan’s new plan is known as 'premium support'. Modelled after the popular Federal Employees Health Benefits Program, Ryan would let seniors who retire in 2023 and later choose from a variety of government-approved, competing and comprehensive health insurance plans, at different prices with different levels of service, including traditional fee-for-service Medicare.



Unlike food stamps, where recipients go to any store, seniors could only pick a pre-approved plan.



Future: Medicare was established more than 40 years ago, but it is widely considered to be in trouble

The distinction between vouchers and premium support matters because premium support offers more protection for the consumer.



With a voucher, consumers can purchase any health insurance plan. Some critics - I am not among them - are concerned that seniors won’t choose the right plan or insurance companies will take advantage of seniors. With premium support, the government has pre-approved the permitted plans.



The amount of funding, or premium support, would be determined by the second least-expensive approved plan, or traditional Medicare, whichever is less costly.



The advantage of premium support plans such as the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program is the variety of plans at different prices.



With more choice, plans have to compete for customers, and this translates into lower costs than would be the case otherwise. Competition is fierce among government plans during enrollment season for federal health plans. Washington D.C.’s citizens are deluged with radio, TV, and bus advertising with pictures of beautiful people promoting different plans.



Ryan realises that alternatives are needed for bankrupt programs, and he’s willing to have a real debate. As he said, the simple reality is that Americans need to stop spending money we don’t have.



====== 2278 ========

NICK WOOD FOR THE DAILY MAIL

NICK WOOD: Tim Yeo's side-swipe amounts to a lack of respect for the PM on an industrial scale, especially since it comes from one of the most senior figures in the parliamentary party. It recalls the kind of insults directed at John Major in the twilight of his unhappy time in office. ...read

====== 2279 ========

IS THERE LIFE ON PLANET CLEGG? YES, BUT IT CANNOT ADD UP

Is there life on Planet Clegg? Yes, but it cannot add up

What planet is he on? Nick Clegg has come up with another load of debt-reduction moonshine

Nasa is currently enthralling the world by beaming back pictures from Mars taken by its rover Curiosity. It's a pity they didn't send their robot to visit Planet Clegg.



And, like Mars, Planet Clegg is a pretty strange place.



The so-called Deputy Prime Minister has today come out with another bucket of moonshine. Only a few months after signing off a cut in top rate income tax, he now wants to dream up a new wealth tax, intended to get the rich to cough up a few more billions towards wiping out our mountainous debts.

Mr Clegg does not seem to be paying attention. If he did, he would notice that according to a report from the respected think-tank the Centre for Policy Studies, our chances of wiping out the deficit (the annual gap between income and expenditure) let alone shrinking the accumulated national debt mountain are about as likely as Curiosity stumbling across the Essex lion.



According to the CPS, the Government's "austerity programme" is a figment of its imagination.



In cash terms, spending has risen from £602 billion in Gordon Brown's last year of 2009/10 to £647 billion this year. As a percentage of national output, spending is down by just 0.2 per cent, as opposed to the 3.4 per cent promised by Chancellor George Osborne over 2010-2015.



Put another way, the Government has made only 6 per cent of its planned cuts in current expenditure so far - which is not surprising given that the big ticket items like welfare, education and health are largely protected and that overseas aid is rising fast.



Insofar as the deficit has been reduced (by far less than promised) this is largely down to tax rises and cuts in capital spending. Osborne said that the deficit would be eliminated across the Parliament by a combination of 80 per cent spending cuts and 20 per cent tax rises. Reality is nothing like that.



As for the accumulated national debt, this is on track to increase by £605 billion from 2010 to 2015 or from 53 per cent of GDP to 76 per cent.



Little green man Clegg seems dimly aware that the Coalition's arithmetic is on a par with that of the average eight-year-old.



But instead of sticking to the Government's promises to wipe out the structural deficit by 2015 (now postponed to 2017), Clegg has come up with a whacky new idea, which would only have the effect of impoverishing the country still further.



A wealth tax (on top of the effective current top rate of income tax of 62 per cent) would presumably be levied on assets such as property, shares, capital gains, profits and pensions. It would be spectacularly unfair, since it would penalise thrift, and spectacularly self-defeating since it would drive job-creating businessmen and entrepreneurs abroad to far more favourable tax environments.



Of course, it won't happen. The Tory party (even Dave) would sooner jump off a cliff than sign up to this nonsense.



Clegg's ravings are directed at his equally other-world party activists and are calculated to get him through an uncomfortable conference week towards the end of next month. Earthlings should not take them seriously.



====== 2280 ========

AMERICA'S MIDDLE CLASS IS SHRINKING. SO WHO IS TO BLAME?

America's middle class is shrinking. So who is to blame?

The Pew Research Center released a report last week titled "The Lost Decade of the Middle Class." The report found that the American middle class has "endured a lost decade for economic well-being." Using 2000 as a benchmark, the middle class has shrunk "in size, fallen backward in income and wealth, and shed some - but by no means all - of its characteristic faith in the future."



Who is to blame?



Some partisans will try to blame President George W. Bush. Some others will try to blame President Barack Obama. The answer is much more complicated than putting the blame on the shoulders of one party, or one president.



The study indicates that using 2011 dollars the median net worth of middle income people in 2001 was $129,582 and increased to $152,950 in 2007. During that same time period, lower income Americans experienced a decline and upper income experienced an expansion of wealth. The Pew study indicates that the Bush years before the meltdown were good for the middle class.

America's economic woes cannot be blamed solely on former president George W Bush (left ) or President Barack Obama (right)



By 2008, the economic meltdown had hit and destroyed the wealth of Americans in all income levels. By 2010, the economy had started a slow rebound. In 2010, all income levels regressed and the net worth of the middle class regressed to $93,150. That is a staggering drop in wealth that has left many Americans angry and in need of answers.



During the past four years after the economic meltdown, the economy has not rebounded. Unemployment numbers have been over 8 per cent for a long period of time, and the number of underemployed Americans has increased. Recent graduates can't find jobs. Furthermore, the number of Americans completely dropping out of the work force has risen to unacceptable levels. The President is having a hard time convincing the American public that he is not responsible for a slow economic recovery. Especially after his bold promises that his stimulus plan would help turn around the economy with government projects, some targeted tax reductions and a massive bailout of state government funding shortfalls.



Clearly, Republican Mitt Romney and President Barack Obama will try to shift blame from their respective parties for the economic collapse experienced by the middle class. President Obama is trying to use class warfare as a means to tap into middle class rage, in the hope of securing a second term.



Politico quoted President Obama stating earlier this month to voters in the swing state of Ohio that, "I want to say, by the way, that when I talk about middle class, I’m also talking about poor folks that are doing the right thing and trying to get to the middle class. The middle class is also an attitude. It’s not just about income, it’s about knowing what’s important, and not measuring your success just based on your bank account. It’s about your values and being responsible and looking after each other and giving back." This has been a consistent theme of Obama's re-election effort.



President Obama is trying to use middle class anger as a wedge to pander to the fear of many Americans. Obama and his allies talk about "income inequality" and use other code words to tap into middle class anger with wealthy Americans. The Pew study indicates that the wealthy were also hit by the 2008 economic meltdown, but that does not matter to the President.



The President has pledged to block tax cuts for all Americans until he has delivered tax hikes on the rich. No matter that this is the same President that agreed to tax cuts for all in 2010, because he recognized the harm tax hikes would impose on small business. Now, President Obama is locked in to make this election a referendum on class warfare. Obama's policies take from the rich to give to his government so the government can allocate those new resources to new green energy projects and a bigger welfare state.



Republican Presidential candidate Mitt Romney has his own argument to make. Romney is using a similar campaign theme to that deployed by Ronald Reagan in 1980, when Reagan asked, "are you better off now than you were four years ago?" The answer then was no, and the answer today is no.



Republican nominee Mitt Romney hopes to convince America that he can offer a brighter future

The Romney campaign website quotes a Romney spokesman as saying "President Obama just can’t seem to get things right or improve the economy for middle-class Americans. After three and a half years, his disappointing record is clear: energy prices are up, young Americans are struggling, our trade policies aren’t working, deficits have soared, and small business owners are being over-taxed, over-regulated, and personally denigrated. The American people deserve better – they deserve a president who won’t let them down." Many Americans bought Obama's "Hope and Change" from 2008, and they feel burned. There are a good percentage who feel betrayed by the broken promises of a better life from 2008 - and they say they will not be fooled again.



The Pew Study indicates that party membership colors people's perspective on who is to blame. The study concluded that "partisan differences also affect the way members of the middle class apportion blame for the economic difficulties the middle class has endured over the past decade. Sizable gaps exist on whether a lot of blame belongs with large corporations (Democrats 59% vs. Republicans 27%) and banks and other financial institutions (Democrats 62% vs. Republicans 40%). However, similar majorities of both groups blame Congress (63% for Democrats and 58% for Republicans)." The battle between Romney and Obama will come down to the issue of who can convince independent voters not affiliated with either party who is to blame - and who has the proper solutions to the problems.



Conservatives are confident that the now-infamous statement by President Obama that "You Didn't Build That" evidences a strong hostility by the President toward the private sector and free market capitalism. Many believe that Obama's statement was a glimpse into the big government mind of the President and evidence of Obama's government-centered direction for the economy.



====== 2281 ========

PATIENTS MISSING APPOINTMENTS - MAYBE THEY NEVER NEEDED THEM?

Patients missing appointments - maybe they never needed them?

If someone doesn’t turn up for an appointment there are only a few possible reasons: they died; they forgot; transport failure or they didn’t need the appointment in the first place.



The figures for the number of people not turning up for NHS appointments were revealed over the bank holiday weekend – one in ten people don’t attend an appointment totaling 5.5m missed appointments in the last year. This includes appointments people have made for themselves.



BBC local radio also covered yesterday the forthcoming 2020health report on how few people are being given electronic access to their health records (one in 100), despite the evidence showing that patients who take up the service usually have better health.

1 in 10 fail to turn up for doctor appointments, but did they need them in the first place?

The common theme here is that NHS remains far too paternalistic, with doctors making many decisions without involving the patient and still regarding intimate details about an individual’s life history (i.e. the patient’s notes) as belonging to the state.



Legally notes do still belong to the NHS, but despite the fact we have had the right to see our records for a couple of decades, many professionals still view us as passive recipients of care instead of active participants who should be involved in planning and management.



This includes whether we really want an appointment, or just a quick call for reassurance or leaving it to us to decide. I recently sat by a doctor’s desk in a large London teaching hospital as he viewed his PC. He hadn’t looked up when I walked into the room; he’d spoken to either the notes or the screen, and it was only when I said “and I’d like a copy of my test results” that he looked at me. “Why would you want those?” he asked abruptly as if talking to an unreasonable child.



Personal electronic health records will go a long way to enabling us to take more responsibility for our healthcare. More information leads to greater understanding and awareness and can lead to improved health. The proliferation of health apps show that there is a real appetite for information and self-care.



The government should be falling over itself to encourage electronic access and approving apps as this will reduce the burden on the NHS and go some way to reducing the 40% (according to GPs) of unnecessary appointments, easing the difficulties experienced by some patients who have found it harder to get an appointment because of their local surgery reducing their opening hours.

====== 2282 ========

BRACE YOURSELVES: ARGENTINIAN PRESIDENT CRISTINA KIRCHNER IS ON THE POLITICAL ATTACK

Brace yourselves: Argentina's president Cristina Kirchner is on the political attack

It has been several weeks since Argentina’s president Cristina Kirchner attacked Britain over Las Malvinas (the Falklands).

Brace yourselves - because there could be a fresh broadside heading this way at any moment.



Not necessarily because it is about time, given the regularity of her previous attacks, that Miss Kirchner launches yet another salvo.



In the past few months she has called Britain ‘arrogant’ and ‘a crude, colonial power in decline’. For good measure, she has also accused David Cameron of ‘mediocrity’ and ‘stupidity’.

No, her anti-British anger may be drawn by something much closer to Miss Kirchner’s heart than the fate of a set of windswept, rocky islands in the South Atlantic – her own popularity.

Under pressure: Argentine President Cristina Kirchner delivers a speech after a ceremony in Cochabamba, Bolivia

Miss Kirchner is a notoriously vain leader. She is long rumored to have had plastic surgery and once confessed to ‘painting myself like a door since I was 14’. So it is not hard to guess how aggrieved the ‘Botox Queen’ would have felt this weekend at the publication of opinion polls which showed her support nosediving among Argentinians.

In the past 12 months it has halved. In July and August alone it dropped 10 percentage points. Her support now stands at just 30 per cent.

The slump, for a woman who won a general election with a majority that British leaders would dream of less than 12 months ago, is unprecedented in her career. Her name is fast becoming political poison.

Things are so bad that a visiting South African rugby player currently on tour in Argentina and who just happens to have the surname Kirchner has been warned that he may be booed by crowds for his name alone. He has even admitted wondering why his passport was given an extra-long examination at border control.

The economy and crime seem to be the reasons for the president's new-found unpopularity. An inflation rate reckoned privately to be somewhere near 20 per cent, rising unemployment, and its knock-on effect when it comes to social problems, have all led to Argentines turning their back on the 59-year-old widow.

Slumping popularity is bad news for any politician, but in Miss Kirchner’s case it is especially worrying. Her whole career has been based on popularism. So good has her relationship with the Argentine electorate been that she is on first name terms with millions and is known simply as ‘Cristina’. Her most fervent supporters are dubbed ‘Cristinistas’.

Inevitably compared to Eva Peron, Argentina’s immensely popular First Lady during the 1940s, Miss Kirchner has broad social appeal despite a solidly middle-class upbringing.

She trained as a lawyer after university, where she met her husband Nestor who was her predecessor as president. Cristina succeeded him in 2007, becoming Argentina first female leader. His death in 2010 only served to broaden her appeal amid an outpouring of national sympathy. She is seen in public mostly wearing ‘mourning black’ and is said to have over 200 black dresses in her wardrobe.

Her strength has been at playing to the crowd, championing causes bound to appeal to the electorate – such as constant criticisms of Britain and the Falklands.

The Falkland Islands: The territory has been strong political currency for Argentina's president, and she may be about to deploy it again

She has constantly taken on Argentina’s privileged classes (though critics claim she is now the most privileged of all), allied herself to the ‘Mothers of the Disappeared’, the women whose children were stolen or killed by the military juntas of the 1970s, and addressed real-life issues such as bigger state pensions for the poorest.



Now, facing her biggest test of popularity, she has already reverted to populist type.



In the past few days she has announced her government will take over a Spanish oil company’s operations in Argentina.

And her rumblings on the Falklands have already begun.



Within the last few days she has praised the conduct of Argentine athletes at the London Olympics, and diplomatic efforts to get the Falklands back. She has also called on the ‘civilized world’ - by which she probably does not mean Britain - to give back to Argentina ‘our Malvinas’.



This may only be the start.

Desperate – and desperately unpopular - Argentine leaders have long used the Falklands to try and improve their standing among the people. The most tragic case of this was General Galtieri in 1982.



Kirchner may be many things but she is not, at least, the hapless junta chief.

Expect her courting of South American leaders to continue (though she probably won't need to exert herself with Ecuador), and her attacks on Britain to go up a notch.



====== 2283 ========

DON'T LOOK NOW DAVE AND DAMIAN - BUT YOUR CREW IS MUTINYING

Don't look now Dave and Damian - but your crew is mutinying

Damian Green, Minister of State for Borders and Immigration

Apart from the Essex Lion, one of the more bizarre silly season stories I heard over the Bank Holiday Weekend was the tale of the Australian billionaire who wants to build an exact replica of the Titanic - the super liner whose short life ended so tragically on its maiden voyage a century ago.



Half-listening to this on the radio in an early morning state of slumber, I thought at first that the reporter was filing a state-of-play feature on how David Cameron's grand plans to re-make the Conservative party in his own image were going. But even after I awoke to the truth of the matter, it still struck me that Titanic II was an apt metaphor for where the Tories are heading under Captain Cameron's leadership.



For the maiden voyage of the Captain's Coalition, a joint venture undertaken with his co-skipper, Captain 'Calamity' Clegg, is steering straight for the iceberg - and his crew have started to notice, realising that unless it changes course very soon the Tory Titanic will meet with disaster.



Discontent on a whole host of issues - from the fumbling over the Green Belt, Heathrow expansion, and rail fares and franchises, to Lords reform, electoral boundary changes, the decimation of our armed forces and the arrogant interference of the European Court in our affairs - is crystallising, and when politics resumes next month, the autumn promises to be as torrid for the Government as the troubled months since Osborne's bungled Budget have been - if not worse.



Above all, it is the over-arching issue of Europe that worries the restless Tory crew, and those concerns must have been redoubled by the Survation/ Mail on Sunday poll this weekend which showed that the ever growing UKIP (on 12%) had overtaken the Tories' Coalition partners, the Lib Dems (on 10%).



Signs of the gathering mutiny below decks must have penetrated even Cameron's iron-plated yet totally misplaced self-confidence, for he has sent one of the pettiest of his Petty Officers down from the Bridge to give the mutinous crew a stern talking to. Damian Green, the Immigration Minister, a notably obscure and inept member of a team in any case woefully deficient in political talent - (How's that pledge to cut Immigration going, Damian?) - was the hapless choice of No.10 to tell Tories aghast at their party's decline under Dave that it was all their fault. They, not the leadership, were out of step with the times.

Immigration Minister Damian Green during a visit to Terminal 3 of Heathrow Airport. The opening of terminal 5 was controversial, but the idea of a third runway has got many groups up in arms

I knew that Green's plea was a Downing Street plant when I heard the BBC news bulletin bigging it up. BBC news would only feature a newspaper article by a Tory if it contained an attack on the 'Right', and Green was happy to oblige. In a piece notable, despite its brevity, for mystifying incoherence, he prayed in aid for his dripping wet Leftism the unlikely figure of Sir Keith Joseph, the bone-dry Guru of Thatcherism before even Mrs Thatcher herself discovered it.



But the main burden of Green's song was that Tories should pass what he ludicrously called the 'Danny Boyle test', though why sucking up to the left-wing film director architect of the spectacular Olympic opening ceremony, - with its distinctly Marxist take on British history - should be a Tory duty was not made clear. I wondered where I had heard Green's whine that 'If we don't like modern Britain then it is very unlikely that modern Britain will like us' before - then it all came back to me.



In his frantic hurry to prepare his piece, Damian Green had plucked from the files an old speech from circa 1998, one made by Michael Portillo, erstwhile darling of the Tory Right turned pouting poster boy of the Tory Left; or possibly by Francis 'Flipping' Maude, Portillo's former leadership campaign manager; or maybe by Green's current chief, Home Secretary Theresa May, in her self-hating 'Tories are the nasty party' phase. Or possibly by Dave himself. Then, after changing a few names, Damian rushed into print.



In other words, Green was firing a shot from an old battle long since fought. Telling Tories to stop being Tories and abandon their old-fashioned 'Right-wing' values and verities of patriotism, the family, a stable society, decency, rewards for enterprise and punishment for crime; and embrace the right-on, anything goes, brainless Nihilism of Blair, was the trope of the booming early Noughties in the wake of New Labour's 1997 Labour landslide, and before Cameron took over a party shell-shocked by three election defeats in 2005.



Sorry, Damian, but your old song can't be sung any more in this time of bust. Why should Conservatives 'like' a modern Britain in ever deepening debt, stripped of its defences, awash with illegal immigrants - that it should be your job to keep out or kick out, - and dancing towards disaster to the tune of your real boss : the European Union? Away from your Metropolitan fantasies, Britain has changed alright, but for the worse - and it is the task of true Tories not to embrace the mess, but to put it right, which requires the sort of leadership that you and your Cameroon clique are utterly unable to provide.



It's no wonder that Tory MPs, with UKIP, not the Lib Dems, breathing down their necks, are mutinying; no wonder that party membership is crashing; no wonder that betrayed voters are staying at home in droves: there was a time when they looked to you to save them, but you have only led them deeper into the mire.



====== 2284 ========

ROMNEY/RYAN TURN BACK THE MAGICAL THINKING OF OBAMA

Romney/Ryan turn back the magical thinking of Obama

As the Republicans began to gather in stormy Tampa, President Barrack Obama attempted to rain on the GOP parade. "I can't speak to Gov. Romney's motivations," he darkly told AP in an interview. "What I can say is that he has signed up for positions, extreme positions, that are very consistent with the positions that a number of House Republicans have taken."

Unfortunately for Obama, U.S. voters do not reciprocate the president's view that Romney is "extreme." A current Rassmussen poll reports that 47 percent of voters, to the contrary, view the President's own views as "extreme," while 51 percent view Romney's views as "mainstream."

Of course the particular House Republican Obama most has in mind is the brilliant Paul Ryan, destined to be Romney's running mate as VP. At a White House summit on health care in February, 2010, Ryan sat at a table directly across from the President, and skillfully deconstructed Obamacare. He reeled off facts and figures in bravura style, describing its negative impact on Medicare and on the budget. Video shows that the president never responded to him directly, but sat there glowering at his challenger.

Team GOP: Mitt Romney (R) and his running mate Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wisc.) greet supporters at a rally in Ohio on Saturday. The two will both speak at the Republican National Convention

A year later Obama gave a major address at Georgetown University on healthcare. He invited Paul Ryan and reserved a seat for him in the front row. Hiding behind a teleprompter, the President blasted the Ryan plan as "not serious." As a student of Chicago agitator Saul Alinsky's ethically challenged tactics, he strove to humiliate his challenger with magic epithets rather than facts.

What's going on here is that the President, and the governing elites generally, engage exclusively in magical thinking. They dwell exclusively in the world of ideology, which by definition, is devoid of reality. They deal in abstractions and mental constructs and demand that the real world should adapt to their thought-projections. Adopting Descartes' frivolous notion that "I think, therefore I am," they believe that "I decree, therefore it will exist."

In the land of ideology, all politics is situated somewhere along a line that ranges from left to right. Following Marx's dialectical analysis, the left represents the dictatorship of the Obamatariat, as implemented on behalf of the people by magical thinking experts. Meanwhile the right, in the scheme of ideology, represents the vulture-like dictatorship of monopoly capitalism. For someone positioned on the extreme left, looking sidewise down the line, the right does look far away and extreme. They expect that those in the center are merely misled and will eventually come to their senses and join with the left. After all, isn't it the 99 per cent against the one percent?

Race to the White House: President Barack Obama criticized presumptive GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney, in a new interview with the Associated Press saying he adopted 'extreme positions'

It is magical thinking to believe that a Keynesian stimulus is anything but wasteful government spending.

It is magical thinking to believe that government can create jobs other than building the pyramids or digging ditches and filling them up again.

It is magical thinking to believe that health care costs can be "reduced" by economic projections that go on for decades. Chaos theory, based on the beating of a butterfly's wings in Brazil, would be a better tool to estimate the fiscal hurricane to come than economic analysis.

It is magical thinking to believe that wind and solar power impact the environment less than fossil fuels, or that they will ever produce enough energy to sustain our development.

It is magical thinking to believe that a $6 dollar per gallon carbon tax on gasoline, as already proposed in Democratic legislation introduced into Congress, will do anything other than strangle the economy.

It is magical thinking to believe that all things are relative and have no fixed meaning, whether talking about words, empirical observations, civic morality or the rule of law.

This prevailing political analysis of the establishment is totally disconnected from reality. Only a small minority of Americans are interested in ideology. That is the group which self-identifies itself as "liberal" in the annual Gallup poll that asks voters to state their political philosophy, in their own definition. The number of liberals has stood at 21 percent for several years.

The number of voters who identify as "conservatives" is twice as large at 40 percent, outnumbering even the "moderates" at 35 percent. But isn't conservatism an ideology too? No, the essence of conservatism is to be against ideology, as pointed out by the intellectual father of the conservative movement, the late Russell Kirk.



Indeed there are some conservative activists who obsess about Friedrich Hayek, Milton Friedman or even John Locke, but it is doubtful that most of the 40 percent in the Gallup survey give those theorists a moment's thought.

Conservatives have three practical principles, all proudly negative. They are opposed to big government, big labor and big business. Or to put it another way, they are against monopoly government, monopoly labor, and monopoly capitalism. They believe in small efficient government, but only government that is more local than national and doesn't tell them what to do. They support the right to work of labor, but only under voluntary associations.

They support private property, local banks and private enterprises under the control of stockholders and directors who know each other in real life. They are opposed to ideological capitalism, but not to free enterprise.

There is no theory or ideology behind this, but only the practical reality of everyday life. Conservatives have a fundamental intuition that human beings are fallible and self-serving, and that every power center has to be balanced against another, and constantly decentralized.



As this column showed in an earlier post, huge majorities and pluralities are opposed to the left-wing consensus on such topics as government spending, deficits, abortion, evolution, gun control, illegal immigration (but not legal immigration), and the meaning of marriage. On all such topics, the majority conservatives and moderates oppose the lunatic fringe

Instead of adopting the ideological analysis which believes that the left fringe is normal, and the majority right is extreme, it would be better to parse it in a different way. Let's take that line that supposedly goes from left to right, and bisect it with another line at 90 degrees.



The start of the Republican National Convention inside the Tampa Bay Times Forum has been postponed until Tuesday because of Tropical Storm Issac

This is the line of common sense, the line of reality-based thinking, as opposed to magical thinking. This is a line which says, "I am, therefore I think." In other words, thinking doesn't create reality; thinking takes reality into consideration first.

Along the bisecting line above is the perception of the good; below is the perception of evil. Along the line above is the perception of virtue; below the line is the perception of vice. Above the line is the perception of love; below is the perception of hatred. Above is work and responsibility; below is sloth and selfishness.

Conservatives believe this outlook is a fixed reality that is engraved in every person's heart. That reality may be confirmed by reason alone. Many conservatives see it as a reality that is illumined by religious faith, but it is not dependent on revelation. It was an outlook available to a noble pagan, such as Aristotle, or a stoic such as Seneca. It is acknowledged even today by many agnostics and non-religious persons. Yet surveys continuously report that the vast majority of Americans profess belief in a supreme being, and that a majority report active membership in a church or other house of worship.

With Paul Ryan on side, Romney forms a formidable opponent for Obama

So most Americans are not in the la-la land of ideological relativism. They believe in common sense, not magical thinking. They believe that the state is the servant of the people, and not the master.



They believe that the rich complexity of society is created by the interlocking work of voluntary institutions, whether in business, education, religion or social welfare. They think that the apparatus of the state is inherently incompetent and dangerous, and ought to be only a temporary resort in an emergency.

The left finds all of this disturbing and unfathomable. Obama as a candidate in 2008 famously sneered at (or perhaps pitied) Americans "who cling to their God and their guns," apparently unaware that he was referring to the majority of U.S. voters.



The views of the right don't fit into the Marxist dialectic at all, which is why the left struggles to apply such labels as "far right" or "extreme right." They certainly don't fit the pattern of ideological racists or political fascists.

That's why Obama campaign went hysterical when Romney put forward Ryan as his running mate. When the name was proposed, the left could hardly constrain its glee. Ryan's budget proposals, already approved by the Republican House but stalled by Democratic Leader Harry Reid in the Senate, would take the Romney campaign over the cliff, they believed. Ryan's name would be "toxic" to seniors, a key swing category, said disgraced former CBS-TV newsanchor Dan Rather, pretty much summing up the views of Democratic operatives.

Now Ryan's record hardly shows him to be an extremist. His general voting record was more or less down the line with the Bush administration and House Republican leadership. He is a man of faith and a proponent of social justice (but not the false social justice trumpeted by some who confuse Christianity with socialist ideology). He knows that common sense refutes magical thinking.

Moreover his budget proposals were modest. Far from being the work of the Halloween slasher, his cuts were tiny slices off the rate of growth, not absolute cuts below current levels. He simply would slow the growth of government spending over a period of years leading up the 2027, when all the current political players will be off the field. Nevertheless, when tiny nicks are made in the rate of government growth, all Democrats bleed.

The Obama campaign went hysterical when Romney put forward Ryan as his running mate

But a funny thing happened on the way to Tampa. After a few days, the polls began coming in. "Hi, I'm Paul," he would say to the crowds. The seniors loved Paul! He was just like the son they had or wished they had! They hung on his strong arms, buffed every morning by an hour-long insanity workout. If he hadn't been named as Romney's running mate, his plan for the weekend had been to make his favorite climb up a 14,000 foot high peak in Colorado.

In the agonizing dead heat of Obama vs. Romney polling, the seniors, and especially the seniors, began moving to the Romney camp in droves. The clincher came when Ryan introduced his own mother at a huge rally in a retirement community in Florida. Although she is 78, she looked 20 years younger, the way retirees would like to think of themselves. Could the son of such a mother really push granny over the brink in a wheelchair?

The Palm Beach Post reported, according to a SurveyUSA poll, that 43 percent of registered Florida voters and 53 percent of seniors had a favorable view of Ryan. Ryan was viewed unfavorably by 32 percent of voters and 30 percent of seniors, said the newspaper.

So Ryan has turned out to be a terrific asset, sharp on the stump and a builder of enthusiasm. Moreover, he has reassured many Republicans that, given the opportunity, Romney can pick the right person.



All though the primaries, Romney was the last choice of three quarters of the party faithful. The suspicion remained that he was a big government man. They weren't sure whether he represented Marxist capitalism, or free enterprise capitalism. But the choice of Paul Ryan has enabled the Republican base to set aside those doubts. They are so eager to defeat Obama, that recent polls report 98 percent of Republicans support the Romney-Ryan ticket.

















====== 2285 ========

WHY WON'T THE BBC COME CLEAN OVER ITS BIAS AGAINST ISRAEL - A MORAL COUNTRY THAT DESERVES OUR SUPPORT?

Why won't the BBC come clean over its bias against Israel - a moral country that deserves our support?

It's time for the BBC to give up. We already know that it's biased towards the Left. But the corporation looks ridiculous in its endless attempts to stop the publication of an inquiry into its coverage of Israel.



I mean, just how bad can it be?



Well, evidently it's embarrassing enough to squander hundreds of thousands of pounds to keep it locked in a safe. In fact, a Freedom of Information request by The Commentator has revealed that the BBC has squandered £332,780.47 suppressing it.

Andrew Marr is one of the BBC big names who has admitted the organisation is biased

This is silly, given that the BBC has been so good at admitting its general Left-wing bias in recent years. Andrew Marr, its star talent, has said that: "The BBC is not impartial or neutral. It's a publicly funded, urban organisation with an abnormally large number of young people, ethnic minorities and gay people." He was not sacked. And Mark Thompson, the outgoing director general, has admitted that, in the past, there was "a massive bias to the Left".



So since the BBC seems prepared to admit general bias, but won't let us read this particular report, it's hardly surprising that critics think this report must be a real stinker. As The Commentator's Raheem Kassam says: "If there is nothing to be afraid of, the BBC should stop wasting taxpayers' money immediately and hand over the report."



In the BBC's defence, however, I do think that its staff genuinely believe that they are being fair in their coverage.



After all, almost the entire Left-wing establishment in this country has an warped and profoundly wrong view of the Middle East.



You probably won't hear this on the BBC, but there is a truth about Israel that the Left has been blinded to. It is that Israel is a virtuous country. It protects the rights of individuals and allows the market economy to flourish.



As such, Israel should be celebrated and morally supported by the British - especially as, on human rights grounds, it supports the causes that the Left-liberals claim to champion. After all, gay Palestinians flee to the protection of Israeli governance, where their lives are protected.



Sadly the debate has been skewed by nutty Left-wing websites who ignore the truth about the Israel and print endless false accusations against the country. They despise its embrace of capitalism, rather than the more feudal economic systems in the region. And they ignore the fact that Israel is under constant threat from those who want to destroy it.



====== 2286 ========

GREECE MOVES CLOSER TO THE EUROZONE¿S EXIT DOOR

Greece moves closer to the Eurozone’s exit door

Greece’s economy has been contracting since 2007. In the second quarter of this year GDP was over 6% lower than a year earlier and, according to the OECD, is projected to fall by 5½% overall this year and 1½% next. If the OECD forecasts are accurate Greece’s economy in 2013 will be just over 80% the size it was in 2007.



My hunch is that the OECD is too optimistic. Unemployment was 22% in March and youth unemployment is over 50%, whilst public sector debt is a totally unsustainable 160% of GDP. The Greek economy is imploding.



Greece has received two huge bail-out packages, €110bn in 2010 and €130bn earlier this year, which together amount to more than its annual GDP. (GDP in 2011 was about €220bn.)



A long dissent: Greece's economy has been contracting since 2007

The Greek government has committed to reducing its public sector deficit to a quite unrealistic 2% of GDP by 2014 but in order to try and achieve this target more savage spending cuts will be needed. Unsurprisingly the Greek Prime Minister is currently pleading with the other Eurozone leaders to defer this extra pain, which can only push Greece further and further into recession. But, as yet, his pleas have fallen on deaf ears.



In addition, and crucially, the Greek is quite uncompetitive compared with say the super-competitive German economy. But, locked inside the Eurozone, it cannot get a quick shot of much-needed competitiveness by letting its currency devalue against Germany’s. So the economy struggles, shrinking by the month. This is simply unsustainable.



Of course Greece should leave the Eurozone and return to the drachma. The currency could then depreciate, possibly by 30-40%, and Greek business, not least of all the tourist trade, should recover. I remember well the blood-curdling and apocalyptic warnings about the dire consequences of Britain’s leaving the Exchange Rate Mechanism in 1992, but we left and the economy recovered extraordinarily well.



Pleading for rescue: Greece has received two huge bail-out packages

Greece too must be expected to default on its debts, which is of course bad news for banks (or any other institutions) holding Greek debt. But, if need be, the banks will have to be bailed out or nationalised.



It was reported in the Daily Mail last week that senior Eurozone officials were paving the way for Greece to exit the single currency. This is not before time. Greece’s situation within the Eurozone now looks irretrievable.



In the words of Macbeth “…if it were done when ‘tis done, then ‘twere well it were done quickly.” It is however impossible to say if/when Greece will leave but surely there is at least a 50:50 chance that the country will have exited the Eurozone by the end of the year.



There is much talk about “financial contagion”, meaning that if/when Greece exits the Eurozone, the “markets” will turn their fire on the other weaker southern economies including Portugal, Spain and even Italy, wreaking havoc. Well, maybe. But the Eurozone authorities will surely be prepared for this and it is not a reason for delaying Greece’s exit.



More interesting is the matter of whether a Greek departure, especially when the economy begins to recover, would then be seen as an attractive precedent for other economies trapped in the Eurozone. Who knows? And other countries, from Spain to Finland (for entirely different reasons) may decide their futures are rosier outside rather than inside this flawed and misconceived currency bloc.



It was not meant to be like this of course. Monetary union, as proposed in the Maastricht Treaty, was conceived by European leaders back in the 1980s as a major step towards political unification. Nations were to be subsumed into the European Union with their sovereignty “pooled” (a particularly misleading phrase, nations either have sovereignty or they don’t) and national interests subordinated to European ones.



But national interests have prevailed. There is no sign that the richer countries, principally Germany, have an appetite to sign up to a substantial fiscal transfer union (in which the richer north would subsidise the poorer south on a permanent basis) which is needed to hold the currently configured Eurozone together in the medium-term.



====== 2287 ========

THE SYRIAN UPRISING IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR THE ISRAELI AIR FORCE

The Syrian uprising is an opportunity for the Israeli Air Force

It is an ill wind that blows no good, and the mounting storm in Syria may well be providential to the Israeli Air Force (IAF) in their planning for the strike on Iranian nuclear sites.



For let us be in no doubt: the IAF will be planning. Planning is what armed forces do – and never more so when there’s a tangible threat.



President Obama has now said that containment isn’t an option: Iran cannot be allowed to acquire a nuclear capability. It follows logically that armed force may have to be used to achieve that policy goal. Indeed, Obama has said explicitly that all options remain on the table.

Scroll down for video

Opportunity: The mounting storm in Syria may well be providential to the Israeli Air Force (IAF) in their planning for the strike on Iranian nuclear sites

Strategy: With the Assad regime imploding, Syria's air defences could be seriously degraded, and Southern Syria may well now be the IAF's most feasible route into Iran via Iraq

The question for him is where is the red line: what is the critical point at which military force must be used? It would make a good episode of The West Wing. Seen from Tel Aviv, of course, the red line may be rather closer than seen from Washington.



So how does the turmoil in Syria help the IAF planners?



The IAF has over the past decade purchased 125 advanced F-15I (I for 'Israel' – McDonnell Douglas, now Boeing) and F-16I (Lockheed Martin) strike-fighters. The I variants are equipped with Israeli avionics and additional fuel tanks specifically for long-range strike missions. Indeed, the IAF’s principal strike orientation has for the past ten years been towards Iranian nuclear capability.



It has bought specialised 'bunker-busting' munitions, developed long-endurance unmanned aircraft for target reconnaissance, as well as an air-to-air refuelling capability (ten large tankers based on the commercial Boeing 707).

Its pre-emptive strike in June 1981 against the Osirak reactor near the Iraqi capital, Baghdad, is legendary. Less well known was its strike in September 2007 against a Syrian target believed by Israeli and U.S. Intelligence to be a nuclear reactor under construction. Both strikes stopped the nuclear programmes in their tracks, and then retarded subsequent research and development.

Arsenal: The IAF has over the past decade purchased 125 advanced F-15I (I for 'Israel' - McDonnell Douglas, now Boeing) and F-16I (Lockheed Martin) (pictured) strike-fighters

However, a fully disabling strike against Iran would be far more complex. The Iraqi and Syrian strikes were against single targets located above ground – and they were 'bolts from the blue'.



The Iranian sites are buried deep, there are five that would probably have to be neutralized (Natanz and Fordo, Uranium enrichment plants; Arak, a heavy water plant; Isfahan, a Uranium conversion plant; and Parchin, a military site), and Iranian Air Defence has been put on notice for months.



And the sites are, of course, at greater range than any previous ones. Far greater range. Multiple, deep-buried targets would require a large number of aircraft in a carefully coordinated operation; and access would have to be via other nations’ air space.



Precautions: Israelis are exchanging old gas masks for new amid tensions over the possibility of Israel striking Iran over its nuclear programme

Hitherto it had been supposed that there were three options: via Turkey, Jordan/Iraq, or Saudi Arabia.



Iraq’s air space is virtually undefended, so this would be the place in which command and control (C2) and refueling could be carried out; but transiting Jordanian air space, as well as being politically explosive, could be a hard-fought job.



Saudi Arabia and Turkey would be even trickier, with the added complication that Turkey is a member of NATO.



Syrian airspace has hitherto been regarded as perhaps the toughest nut to crack, technically, as well as Syria's being, too, the country most likely to share early-warning intelligence with Teheran. But with the Assad regime imploding, its air defences could be seriously degraded, and Southern Syria may well now be the IAF’s most feasible route into Iran via Iraq.



Ironically, this is a window of opportunity that is only likely to open wider in the months to come; so for the time being it may well act as a brake on the IAF strike option. Ultimately, however, the Iranian 'red line' will not be determined by Damascus or the Syrian rebels – or even by the U.S. presidential elections; only by Teheran, as seen from Tel Aviv.



Meanwhile the IAF will continue to do its duty: training and planning to destroy the existential threat to Israel.

Video: 'Rebels attack and destroy government tanks'





====== 2288 ========

AM I THE ONLY PERSON WHO THINKS PUSSY RIOT SHOULD HAVE BEEN JAILED?

Am I really the only person who believes the Russian courts were right to jail the three members of the punk band Pussy Riot? Am I the only one who thinks their unauthorised performance of a ‘punk prayer’ at the Cathedral of Christ the Saviour in Moscow, was a gross act of desecration? And am I alone in finding Western hysteria surrounding the singers’ conviction, a sickening exhibition of moral hypocrisy?

Consider German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s remarks following last Friday’s sentencing of the three women to two years in prison. She claimed the ‘excessively harsh’ sentence was ‘not compatible with the European values of law and democracy’. Good to know that European ‘values’ now include blasphemy and sacrilege.

Jailed: Pussy Riot members, from left, Maria Alekhina, Yekaterina Samutsevich, and Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, pictured at court in Moscow

And what of Irish singer Sinead O’Connor’s comment that ‘these ladies are showing spiritual leadership in times of great crisis and that is the job of true artists’? Funny, but I thought the job of a true artist was to shine a light on the sacred and not to ‘do dirt' on it. And how, pray tell, is gyrating around the sanctuary of a Cathedral an act of ‘spiritual leadership’?

What’s more, I don’t remember too many ‘artists’ like Pussy Riot or Miss O’Connor, using their public platform to denounce the communist despots of the old Soviet Union. No, back then it was ‘American tyranny’ they were denouncing. Back then, their heroes were those, like Chairman Mao, who considered the concentration camp as the only place worthy of ‘true artists’.

Writing in Monday’s Irish Times, writer and musician Ian Maleney commented that people like Pussy Riot ‘want the freedom to do, say and think as they wish, without the undue pressure and influence of the government. It’s a basic civil right’. No, it is not, for even the great liberal John Stuart Mill believed that when such freedom ‘harms’ other people, it must be curtailed.

Those who were harmed by Pussy Riot’s antics were not only the Russian Orthodox worshippers of Christ the Saviour, but, I suspect, most people who still believe in the sacred. The jailed singers claim they were entreating the Virgin Mary to save Russia from Vladimir Putin. If so, why did they think that trampling on sacred soil was a good way to earn the Blessed Virgin’s favour?

Imagine, for a moment, that rather than invade a Christian church, Pussy Riot decided to perform their ‘punk prayer’ in a mosque. In such circumstances, do you think Western politicians, commentators or ‘artists’ would be queuing up to support them? Do you really think the politically correct High Command would be so vocal in its praise?

We, in the West, have become so immune to attacks on Christianity, that we can see nothing wrong with a bunch of punks prancing around the sanctuary of an iconic Cathedral. We defend their sacrilege by invoking freedom of speech and civil rights. No sympathy, of course, for those who were deeply offended by their actions, or for the rights of those who simply wish to worship in peace.

Why aren’t critics of Islam supported with similar zeal? Where are the ‘true artists’ when brave Muslim women take issue with certain aspects of their faith? Are they not also showing spiritual leadership in times of great crisis? As I say, moral hypocrisy.

My own view is that neither a church nor a mosque is a fitting place to make any form of protest. Both should be respected as places where the sacred has made its home on earth. It is there, on that holy soil, that worshippers believe they make direct contact with their Creator.

To use this space for anything other than worship is wanton desecration. Liberals who have become desensitised to the sacred may scoff at that suggestion. But for those who still regard certain places as hallowed, nothing can compensate for even the slightest violation.

Supporter: Singer Sinead O'Connor backed the punk group's protest

The old woman agitated at the sight of children running across the altar of our local church, was not overreacting. For her, as for me, that altar represents what T.S. Eliot described as the ‘point of intersection of the timeless with time’. It is where Christ Himself is made present and, thus, where the promise of our salvation is fulfilled.

I cannot conceive of people using that sacred altar for political purposes. I cannot conceive of them squawking and jumping around the Sanctuary as a way of attracting attention to their cause. That is not spiritual leadership but, if anything, an assault on the spiritual.

There is nothing wrong with legitimate protest. But no cause, however great, can morally justify the desecration of holy things, for that is to wound those whose lives revolve around them. Then again, perhaps Pussy Riot and their supporters think worshippers at Christ the Saviour are simply collateral damage.

Sinead O’Connor believes ‘artists are there to push the boundaries’ and that, by ‘using music as a priesthood’, Pussy Riot have ‘made a very powerful artistic statement’. It is neither powerful nor priestly to desecrate a church and offend its congregation. In fact, I can’t think of a softer target.

Let’s hope their prison term will give them space to consider the difference between truly audacious activism, and that which requires no courage at all.

====== 2289 ========

THE GOVERNMENT MUST KEEP FIGHTING THE BIG BROTHER STATE - STARTING WITH A REVIEW OF THE LAST DECADE'S SURVEILLANCE ORGY

Big Brother Watch’s latest report, highlighted in the Daily Mail, has shown that while the Protection of Freedoms Act was long overdue, there is still a need for further reform of RIPA to ensure that all government bodies are using RIPA powers in an accountable and transparent way.

The reforms – which Eric Pickles should be congratulated for – mean that any local authority wishing to use RIPA powers will, from November, have to seek a magistrate’s approval. It is hoped that this higher level of authorisation will make local authorities think twice about whether it is, in fact, proportionate to use directed surveillance and covert human intelligence sources to catch people guilty of fly tipping or allowing their dogs to foul in public.

When RIPA was brought into law the intention was that it would be used to help tackle serious crimes and protect national security. In reality, as seems almost inevitable these days, it ended up being watered down. Hundreds of public bodies were granted powers, from Ofsted to the Charity Commission, without any public accountability or the need to be transparent about how the powers are being used.

Despite the Coalition’s initial efforts, these public authorities – many of which serve no law enforcement function – will still not be required to seek a magistrate’s approval. Business as usual for the quangos, it seems.

The report, ‘A legacy of suspicion’, highlights the fundamental failings in RIPA, and the need for a thorough review of the past decade’s surveillance orgy. For the Home Office to be considering adding to the mire of surveillance legislation by making Britain the first democratic state to monitor our emails, web use and social media messages without any review of RIPA seems dangerous at best and reckless at worst.

It is clear from this excellent report that the Protection of Freedoms Act must be the beginning of a serious discussion about civil liberties and privacy in modern Britain. Both of the Coalition parties made the issue of surveillance a key one before the election, and they are running out of time to finish the work they have started to tackle the Big Brother state.

====== 2290 ========

THE TORIES NEED RENEWAL NOT RESHUFFLE

The Tories need renewal not reshuffle

Rumours abound about who will come and go in the impending cabinet reshuffle. With the Coalition floundering, there's no doubt that a reshuffle is long overdue, but, of course, the heads which ought to roll - those of the Prime Minister, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Business Secretary - will emerge unscathed from the rearrangement of the deckchairs on the lower decks. As on the Titanic, it's the men in steerage who will be left to drown.



David Cameron is known to be an admirer of Harold Macmillan, whose infamous 'Night of the Long Knives', fifty years ago, led Jeremy Thorpe to remark, 'greater love hath no man than this, than to lay down his friends for his life'.



Were Cameron to be ruthless enough to sacrifice his friend, George Osborne, and replace him with Philip Hammond, who has a better understanding of economics than the Chancellor, the Coalition's fortunes might be revived, but the woeful lack of direction, poor judgment and refusal to contemplate necessary tax cuts which have marked this Government suggest that far more wholesale change is required.

The heads which ought to roll - those of the Prime Minister, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Business Secretary - will emerge unscathed from the rearrangement

Staggering from u-turn to u-turn, the Conservatives need a complete renewal of what they stand for if they are to have any chance of winning the next General Election. With the right leadership, this is perfectly achievable. After Ted Heath led the Tories to three election defeats out of four, it was widely predicted that the party would never win another election, yet, within four years, Margaret Thatcher led them to the first of three landslide General Election victories.



Between 1975 and 1979, under a leader with firm beliefs and an interest in developing ideas and policies, the Conservatives put together a coherent approach to economics and government which enabled them to transform a country in near terminal decline.



Thatcher - and her brilliant 'guru', Sir Keith Joseph - had the courage, intelligence and respect for intellectual argument to reshape the Conservative Party from the failed corporatism favoured by Heath to the dynamic free market ideas championed by Hayek and Friedman.



It's too much to expect the current Prime Minister to lead such a process of renewal, but that shouldn't stop others from doing so - and that is precisely what a one-day conference in Windsor on 22 September is seeki ng to do. ' A renewal of Conservatism - How to secure a Conservative Majority in 2015 ' is supported by The Freedom Association (of which I am Director) and the TaxPayers' Alliance.



A cast of some of Britain's brightest and most able conservatives, including James Delingpole, Matthew Elliott, Daniel Hannan MEP , Tim Montgomerie, Professor Roger Scruton and Toby Young will put their minds to how the Conservative Party can recover its self belief and start, once again, to represent the tens of millions of voters who long to have a genuinely conservative party to support.



Those attending the conference - and I do hope that many Daily Mail readers will be among them - will be encouraged to take an active part in all the discussions on the major issues of the day.



====== 2291 ========

JULIAN ASSANGE EXTRADITION: MANY A MAN NEEDS KILLING AND MANY A LIE NEEDS TO BE EXPOSED, BUT KILLERS AND TALE-BEARERS DO NOT NECESSARILY DESERVE RESPECT

Many a man needs killing and many a lie needs to be exposed, but killers and tale-bearers do not necessarily deserve respect

Two sides: Depending on which side you fall, Assange is either a moral degenerate or a gallant crusader

Sometimes I don't know why I bother. What, after all, is the point to entering into any public discussion of controversial matters? Each side of the question has made up its mind before the facts are in, and the respective champions of the issue or debate are, depending on who has washed your brain, heroes or villains.

Trayvon Martin is either a martyr or a thug, Barack Obama a brilliant and eloquent political genius or a race-baiting alien born in Africa. Unborn babies are cancers or space aliens implanted in a woman's womb by patriarchal males or else objects of reverence that it is everyone's duty to take care of. It is all too much like a cheap Dickens novel for my taste, sweet little Oliver and that evil Bill Sykes.

It was the case of Julian Assange that inspired these melancholy reflections on the futility of political editorializing. If one is an American Republican or one of their flunkeys in the British government, then Assange is quite simply evil: a moral degenerate who has compromised the security of the hundreds of thousands gallant men and women fighting for our freedom in Iraq and Afghanistan. His informants, particularly Pfc Bradley Manning are traitors, not only to the United States but to Hilary Clinton's campaign to liberate Muslim women from their headscarves. It is just too bad the British government lost its nerve and did not crash into the Ecuadorian embassy to arrest the villain.

If, by contrast, one is a fan of Mr. Assange, then he is a heroic crusader for freedom of conscience, a gallant fighter for human rights who has dared to challenge the might and majesty of the United States, whose flunkeys in Britain and Sweden have concocted a smear-campaign to discredit his work. He and Pfc Bradley Manning should be honored around the world.

If life were like a Dickens novel, then one of the sides would be right and the other wrong. But, as Anthony Trollope pointed out, life is almost never Dickensian. Good things can be done by people of bad character, while pretty good people can make a terrible mess of things.

Free speech: As well as many critics, Julian has a huge number of avid supporters who believe he is a symbol of freedom of expression

It now appears that the information acquired by Manning and released by Assange was not as potentially damaging to American security as had been claimed originally. What of it? Manning did his best, as a soldier in uniform, to compromise his country's security and put his fellow-soldiers at risk. If he did not wreak the havoc of Phillip Agee, it is not for lack of trying.



So far as I am concerned--and that is not very much--I'd prosecute him for treason. Hanging, as we used to say in the Westerns, is too good for such a man. He was not only disloyal to his country but he violated the rules of the game. Every profession has its code. Physicians are not to harm the patient, scholars are supposed to search for truth, and soldiers are supposed to obey their officers and show loyalty to their comrades. Manning broke the rules and deserves severe punishment.

What of Julian Assange? If Assange were an American citizen--in the days when national citizenship actually meant something--he would be less guilty than Manning but guilty enough for a life-sentence. As an Australian, however, he is really none of my government's business or at least not much. He should not be allowed back into the United States, and it is certainly legitimate to prosecute his American confederates. Perhaps he can be returned to Australia and be sent around the country to fight for his honor in boxing matches with kangaroos. He is a self-important parody of the do-gooder, and his attempt to do a Mussolini at the Ecuadorian embassy should forever discredit him with his adoring followers, who should, as we say in the States, get a life.

Setting aside Manning's disgraceful conduct as a soldier and Assange's absurd theatrics, what is the substance of the revelations made by Wikleaks? That American officials are dishonest fools? That countries are being destroyed and lives wasted for exactly nothing? That the imbecility and ineptitude of American officials entrusted with the nation's defense is worse than even I had imagined?

All that and more.

On the whole I am happy that Mr. Assange was able, for a moment, to lift up the rock and expose the nasty little weevils and beetles that look after the security of the "world's only remaining superpower." I am only a little less happy to know that Osama bin Laden is dead. My satisfaction, limited though it be, with these events does not , however, inspire me with respect for the responsible parties. Quite the contrary. Many a man needs killing and many a lie needs to be exposed, but killers and tale-bearers do not necessarily deserve our respect. There are many things that need to be done in this world, but to suppose that it is our job to do it, when we must violate laws, betray comrades, or assume a godlike perspective, is to start down the road to terrorism.

====== 2292 ========

OVER THE NEXT FEW YEARS, GEORGE OSBORNE MIGHT NOT BE MR POPULAR, BUT HE MAY BE MR RIGHT

Over the next few years, George Osborne might not be Mr Popular, but he may be Mr Right

Accountable: A letter in the Sunday Times called for Osborne to begin spending cuts a year earlier than planned

In February 2010, twenty economists published a letter in the Sunday Times calling on George Osborne to begin spending cuts a year earlier than planned. The key sentence of that letter stated that, ‘In order to be credible, the government's goal should be to eliminate the structural current budget deficit over the course of a parliament.’



The logic was clear. If you say you’re going to do something hard but essential, you need to do it at a credible pace. Saying you’re aiming to do something in five years time and after a general election is rather like admitting that you’ve no intention of doing it at all.

You probably agree with that logic. If you are in charge of your household budget and you notice that your expenditures are running ahead of your income, you’ll almost certainly want to address that gap right now this minute. It’s not pleasant doing it, but you do it anyway. Businesses think the same way.

What’s strange then is why those same economists have now reversed themselves. Just three of the original twenty economists are thought to stand by their original view. The Daily Telegraph will this week print opinion pieces from a range of other economists all calling upon the Chancellor to reverse course, slow down the fiscal tightening. Spend more, tax less.

Some of the specific ideas have real merit. Britain has an acute shortage of good affordable housing. Plenty of people would seek to buy a house if suitable properties were available at a vaguely sane price. Yet, as things stand, planning restrictions artificially restrict supply while the construction industry is staggering under its post-Olympic hangover. In principle, therefore, you could release demand and reignite an industry by changing planning laws so as to enable the provision of new homes.

Another good idea is widespread tax reform. The British tax system is too complicated and tax rates are too high. Simpler, broader taxes would allow tax rates to be lowered without any overall loss of revenue. The economy would surely benefit from such a reform. There would also be a huge boost to fairness, as the super-wealthy would find themselves having to pay tax instead of dodging it.

Bad plan: Certain other plans for spending cuts are just bananas, such as cutting stamp duty. Britain has long suffered from a huge property bubble, which is at its worst in London

So some of the ideas floating around at the moment are entirely valid. Some of the reforms mooted are obvious and overdue. But certain other ideas are just bananas. Cut stamp duty? Really? Britain has long suffered from a huge property bubble, which is at its worst in London.



A valid alternative? Alistair Darling wants new investment in power stations, airports and railways

Stamp duty is a tax that’s hard to evade and which keeps some kind of lid on prices. Abolishing the tax will just encourage prices upwards: a disastrous step backwards to the bubble economy of 1997-2008.



And higher prices will of course make it even harder for ordinary people to own their own homes, which should be a perfectly reasonable aspiration for working families in a twenty-first century democracy.

Other ideas are more marginal. Alistair Darling wants new investment in power stations, airports and railways.



He’s right, of course, that Britain’s infrastructure does look ragged compared with that of our European competitors. New investment makes good sense, in principle. But why should we expect the government to fund that investment? If there’s a market demand for new airport capacity, the private sector should be able to fund it. If planning restrictions get in the way, Osborne needs to look at the planning laws – he shouldn’t just pull his chequebook out. Same with the railways. Same with power. Those services need to exist, but they need to be funded by the people who use them. Any other approach is a reversion to the jam-today, pay-tomorrow culture of the previous decade.

This debate is going to rumble away for some time to come. Osborne will face a thousand calls from a thousand directions to reverse course, to back off, to ease the pain. But before you join that chorus, please just remember the position we’re in. According to the IMF’s data, the British government will this year borrow 8% of GDP. That’s £124 billion. Of every £1 that the government spends, about 18p is borrowed money. That’s plainly unsustainable. If you look at all debt in the economy – household, government, corporate, banking – then our debt to GDP ratio is a terrifying 500%.

Those numbers were produced in April. Since then, the economy has deteriorated, the outlook darkened. That doesn’t make is less needful to get the finances in order, but more needful. This entire crisis – from the collapse of Northern Rock to the travails of the Eurozone – arose because of too much debt. Too much stupid debt. Urging George Osborne to borrow more for longer is like telling an alcoholic to use cider as a way to get through his whisky withdrawal pangs.

For the same reason, it’s sheer madness for the Bank of England to cast around for new ways to loosen policy. The IMF’s commodity price index has almost doubled from its early-2009 lows. London house prices are crazy. The financial markets are also at unsupportable levels. These things are certain harbingers of inflation – and sure enough, last month, the RPI inflation index rose again, to 3.2% and it won’t stop there.

You would think these things would act like a cold shower on policy-makers. That they would remind them of basic truths: that debt is bad, that fiscal responsibility matters, that money-printing is destructive. Instead, though, it sometimes seems that those in charge of policy will do anything but face the facts. There’s talk about changing the way inflation is calculated – the classic government dodge: if the facts don’t change, fiddle the numbers. Meanwhile, the IMF wants the Bank of England to cut the base rate from 0.5% to 0.0%, as though current rates aren’t already absurd. The lunatics are trying to take over the asylum.

But personally, I think George Osborne understands all this. He’s not a dummy. He gets that you can’t cut expenditure without causing pain. He understands that too many people are still hooked on the Ponzi-ish belief that we can enjoy things today and pay for them tomorrow. Over the next few years, George Osborne might not be Mr Popular. He may yet prove to be Mr Right.

====== 2293 ========

THE CABINET NEEDS A RESHUFFLE: IT'S TIME FOR THE PM TO STAND UP TO KEN CLARKE

The Cabinet needs a reshuffle: It's time for the PM to stand up to Ken Clarke

Obstructive: Justice Secretary Ken Clarke will have to accept the PM's decision if he decides on a reshuffle

If the Prime Minister wants to reshuffle his Cabinet, he should do it his way and not allow himself to be influenced by stubborn colleagues, however venerable and illustrious, who apparently do not want to budge from their present posts.



It is reported that Kenneth Clarke, 72, who has been a Minister in Tory Governments since 1979, wants to remain in his job as Justice Sercretary and has warned the Prime Minister that to fire him would "retoxify" the Conservative Party.



David Cameron should simply ignore such lurid threats, even from someone so eminent. After all, Clarke has failed every time he sought the Tory Party leadership.



And Clarke, despite his massive ministerial experience, is part of Cameron's problem - one of the reasons the Prime Minister is held in such low esteem by many traditional Conservatives.



This is because Clarke, in addition to being on the very "liberal" wing of the Conservative Party, is also a fervent pro-European - something which plays badly with rank-and-file Tories up and down the country.



Cameron's reshuffle - expected next month - must lean to the right if he is to recover the credibility he so badly needs from his party's membership in the country - and among some MPs at Westminster.



Clarke's age has nothing to do with this. There is still plenty of political life in him yet. It is simply that his position on the left of the party and his devotion to Brussels is badly received by large swathes of the current Conservative Party.



Cameron is the boss, and he should not allow the obduracy of one of his most senior colleagues to divert him from what he wants to do. He should either shift Clarke to another post or throw him out of the Cabinet altogether if that is what he wants to do.



====== 2294 ========

LORD MORRIS¿S DISABILITY ACT STANDS AS AN EXCEPTIONAL EXAMPLE OF POLITICAL COMPASSION AND HUMANITY

Lord Morris’s Disability Act stands as an exceptional example of political compassion and humanity

Labour peer Lord Morris of Manchester, a pioneer of disabled rights legislation, who has died at the age of 84

The former Labour Politician, Alf Morris (Lord Morris of Manchester) who died this week achieved an exceptional and groundbreaking feat of proposing, and ensuring the passage of, a Bill that became the Chronically Sick and Disabled Persons Act of 1970.

One may disagree with much of the politics of the former Labour MP for Wythenshawe, once a Parliamentary Private Secretary supporting the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, but it ought to be conceded that his achievement has changed the lives of thousands of people, not just in the UK, but in other states where the idea of basic rights for the disabled have borne fruit so as to avoid complete national and social exclusion for sufferers.



A key benchmark of a civilised society is how it treats its most vulnerable and physically disadvantaged, and Lord Morris’s Act ensured that Britain, on this front, is not empty of compassion, or too self-absorbed to exclude basic moral sensibilities.

Some of the key ground breaking provisions of the Act was to introduce easier access to buildings for persons with disability, including schools, and universities. Also included in the Act is the provision for disabled parking badges to make it easier for using car-parking facilities. It also empowered disabled war veterans by allowing them to challenge the terms of their pensions where there are, for example, errors in provisions.



There can be no better, or stark, example of a nation’s desire to improve the welfare of its people than the treatment of both the mentally unwell and disabled. In, at least, one way a our progress over the last two to three centuries can be illustrated by our successes and failures to propose appropriate legislative response to our compassion on these issues, by creating frameworks of equal access and for, affordable, minimum treatment provisions.



On the different issue of the mentally ill, as opposed to the physical disabled, popular views that were initially imbued to the brim with prejudice, superstition and fear towards one’s fellow man, were challenged by the humanity of using science and endeavour to understand the plight of the once so-called possessed, in order to make a claim for basic minimum treatment of decency. This has been part of a push for greater rights for the disabled.



Lord Morris’s Act is a key part of this movement of slow, yet significant, legislative change for the vulnerable, whether physically or mentally disabled. It made significant inroads into equal access, from the Mental Health Act of 1959, (both instruments are markers for progress when one considers former aptly titled, in reflecting the views of the time, Lunacy Acts of 1845 and 1890).



From a broader viewpoint Lord Morris’ Act was ground breaking in ensuring the legislature reflected some progress towards ensuring that there was no gap between the current law and scientific progress in understanding and caring for the disabled.



====== 2295 ========

TONY NICKLINSON IS PAYING A FAR GREATER PRICE THAN MOST FOR A CIVILISED SOCIETY THAT PROTECTS ITS MOST VULNERABLE

Tony Nicklinson is paying a high but necessary price for a civilised society that protects its most vulnerable



Yesterday's High Court judgment is first and foremost a terrible blow for Tony Nicklinson, who is paralysed from the neck down after a stroke and can communicate only by blinking - so-called locked-in syndrome.



I happen to oppose his case - that he should be allowed to require a doctor to kill him at a time of his choosing - but I can see that he and his family are paying a far greater price than most for the protection of the most vulnerable in our society from the introduction of a euthanasia law.



That said, the High Court's rejection of his appeal is also a terrible blow for the former Lord Chancellor, Lord Falconer, and his fellow campaigners for what we might call euthanasia-lite. They have been highly embarrassed by Mr Nicklinson's case, because he has sought to change the law on murder - to allow a doctor to kill him legally - rather than their own attempts to amend the Suicide Act, which makes it illegal to assist someone to kill themselves.



No respite: The High Court has rejected Tony Nicklinson's appeal for a doctor to be allowed to help him take his life

Charlie Falconer's sponsors at Dignity in Dying, the former Voluntary Euthanasia Society, have been busy distancing themselves from Mr Nicklinson in recent weeks. His case is notable by its absence on their website, relegated to its outer reaches. Its chief executive, the hapless Sarah Wootton, performed the polemical equivalent of the party game Twister yesterday, expressing sympathy for Mr Nicklinson but claiming that he didn't represent what she wants.



The problem for her and 'Proper' Charlie Falconer - so dubbed because he was caught out at Westminster chairing a supposedly independent 'Commission' which was in fact packed with and bankrolled by euthanasia supporters - is that Mr Nicklinson's case precisely and entirely raises the same issues that attach to what they coyly call 'assisted dying'.



The High Court judges yesterday were refreshingly right to rule that a change in the law was a matter for Parliament, not the courts. This could be seen as something of a side-swipe at Falconer's campaign, because it was Dignity in Dying which disgracefully exploited Multiple Sclerosis sufferer Debbie Purdy and lobbied the Law Lords (as they then were) in 2009 to have the law on assisted suicide 'clarified' by the Director of Public Prosecutions, to establish under what circumstances a person would not be prosecuted for assisting a suicide. This was no more nor less than an attenuation of Parliament.

Setback: The High Court ruling is a blow to former Lord Chancellor Lord Falconer

Listening to yesterday's radio phone-ins, with their underdeveloped 'surely-the-law-must-change' themes, you could be forgiven for assuming that the legislature had been negligent in ignoring this issue. In fact, Parliament has scrutinised the introduction of 'assisted dying' thoroughly on four occasions over less than the past decade and voted against its introduction twice, for reasons of protecting the vulnerable and ruling against any state-sanctioned disposal of human lives as worthless or second rate.



Mr Nicklinson's High Court ruling has re-focussed attention on those issues and the recent record of their treatment by Parliament. That's very bad news indeed for Falconer and his euthanasia co-conspirators.



Because, far from being an entirely separate case in law from the 'assisted dying' campaign, as Miss Wootton so feebly claims, Mr Nicklinson's desire to have the state dispose of him when he wishes precisely raises the same objections that have knocked down Dignity in Dying's previous applications to Parliament.



Some of these questions are as follows: Who would do the mortal deed? Doctors, presumably. That raises the most profound ethical issues and compromises the medical profession in a manner that has never been attempted in its history, by introducing killing as a medical treatment.



Can the state effectively sanction such killing? If it does so, we have written into our law the objective confirmation that some lives are 'useless' and not worth living. Some people may subjectively (and, indeed, temporarily) arrive at that decision about their own lives, but it is entirely different and infinitely more dangerous for the state to sanction that eugenic view.



Can reasonable safeguards be introduced to ensure that a voluntary-euthanasia law isn't abused and that the most vulnerable aren't coerced into taking their own lives? The evidence from foreign jurisdictions that have introduced such laws is far from encouraging. But, anyway, who would regulate it? The same people who have regulated the banks, or the newspapers, or MPs so effectively? And, remember, we're dealing with matters of life and death here, not just money (though money may well be the single greatest motivating factor in these matters of life and death).



Should we have the 'right' to be helped to die? No, of course not. Suicide was rightly de-criminalised in the Suicide Act of 1961, but there is an entirely different moral burden attached to helping someone else to kill themselves. We've grown accustomed to the consumerist imperatives of individual 'choice', but to relate that to human life is to confuse freedom with personal autonomy. The latter can only be extended so far as it doesn't act detrimentally on the lives of others.



Heavy price: Mr Nicklinson has at least prompted us to consider the dangers of allowing assisted dying

All these questions and more have been examined in Parliament, Falconer's lobby repeatedly has been found wanting in its alternative answers to them and euthanasia has consistently been thrown out. It will be again when it is brought back by a ginger group that won't take 'No' for an answer.



Poor Mr Nicklinson, who continues to pay such a heavy price for a civilised society that refuses to kill its vulnerable and despairing, has unwittingly focussed our attention on the paucity of the cases for euthanasia espoused by Falconer and his chorus at Dignity in Dying.



====== 2296 ========

FOLLOWING THE LATEST DEVELOPMENTS ON HOUSE OF LORDS REFORM, IS THIS THE END FOR THE COALITION?

Cameron ditches House of Lords reform, and it's going to play havoc with the Coalition



Scrapped: David Cameron is going to ditch House of Lords reform

By Kirsty Walker

At a time when the country is gripped with Olympic fever, few ordinary people will be interested in the latest developments on House of Lords reform and boundary commission changes.

But the news today that David Cameron is going to ditch House of Lords reform is politically significant and has the potential to rip apart the Coalition.

The Prime Minister is expected to make the announcement next week after failing to persuade up to 91 Tory rebels to back reforms which would be acceptable to the Liberal Democrats.

The decision will enrage the Lib Dem high command who have repeatedly warned the Tories, publicly and privately, that there will be ‘consequences’ if House of Lords reform is dumped.

Next week’s announcement will be seen as the latest humiliating blow for leader Nick Clegg and will leave him with next to nothing to show for the last two years of power-sharing with the Conservatives.

Senior Liberal Democrats point out that they have kept to their side of the coalition deal on highly contentious reforms of the NHS, tuition fees and welfare and expect the Tories to keep theirs.

Sources say it will be ‘very serious’ if House of Lords reform is dumped and the Lib Dems will respond by blocking boundary changes which could boost the Tories by as many as 20 seats at the next General Election.

But senior Tories say Mr Cameron has no intention of backing down over boundaries and will press ahead with the changes – which they point out that the Lib Dems have already backed in the Commons.

This leaves the ball firmly back in Mr Clegg’s court. If the Liberals fail to carry out their threats over boundaries, they will be left with no bargaining power in the Coalition.

If the Libs exact public revenge over the Lords by blocking boundary changes, it would signal the end of the coalition as the Lib Dem frontbench would have to vote against the measures in the Commons.

The decision to dump House of Lords reform also leaves the Government with a legislative hole, which is expected to be filled with plans to boost jobs.

Either way, restless Liberal Democrats will be enraged to see another of their coalition prizes scuppered by backbench Tory MPs. In return, rebellious Tories will be further emboldened by their House of Lords victory.

All this makes for a very turbulent time for the coalition. Expect severe recriminations when the political parties meet for their annual conferences over the coming months.





====== 2297 ========

WRONG QUESTIONS, MR HAMMOND. YOU ARE ASKING THE WRONG QUESTIONS

Wrong questions, Mr Hammond. You are asking the wrong questions

Resources: Mr Hammond has said that he 'would rather lose a battalion than send troops into battle without the resources they need.'

Today you are reported as saying that you "would rather fire soldiers than go to war with poor equipment" – but that is not the choice. The same report says also that you "would rather lose a battalion than send troops into battle without the resources they need."

But men are resources too. (Look at Lanchester.) And when the Labour government, which you rightly criticise, sent our men into Helmand to start the disastrous campaign there, they sent in insufficient. Has no one learned from that?

The questions must begin with the capability you wish the Armed Forces to have. Then you must ask how to pay for them. If someone higher up the ladder tells you there is insufficient money, then it is your responsibility to tell the Prime Minister that without the money he cannot have what he wants. (It would be helpful if you told him also that when the Defence of the Realm is the first priority of government, Defence finance has first priority, too, well above overseas aid to countries that have no need for it.)

So what do you want done? The British Isles protected and our overseas interests defended? Right, then we need an Army of 150,000 with 130,000 possibly acceptable for the interim period while we reorganise to overcome the damage inflicted by the last government's insane cuts and your government's risible and lethal Strategic Defence & Security Review (SDSR 2010).

You cannot afford the cost of 150,000 soldiers? Then reduce the scale of commitments your government is willing to undertake.

It is not a choice between adequate numbers and the provision of essential equipment. It is the measure of sufficient numbers against the possible commitments the government may be forced to accept. Smoke and mirrors will not hide that.

With relevance to commitments it is worth noting that SDSR 2010 made no mention of the Arab Spring, nor of North Africa, nor of the Mediterranean, and yet we went to war (in the loosest sense) with Libya, under the pretext of enforcing a no-fly zone, to bomb trucks and road blocks. For this we used Tornados based in England because the Ark Royal and the Harriers had been retired, and the Typhoons asked for those Tornados to fly with them because they did not have the equipment to bomb accurately and needed a buddy to laser designate for them.



Commitments: Cuts to defence should not be a choice between adequate numbers and the provision of essential equipment. The government may be forced to accept that they have to curtail their commitments.

"There's no point in having a cardboard Army," you are quoted as saying. "We want a real Army with real equipment and real fighting capability." That is admirable. Every soldier and every patriotic elector will agree with you. Now tell the Prime Minister.

"And it's a moral imperative. You cannot send people into danger without the proper equipment – and that is what we were doing in 2007 and 2008. when we had the scandals around body armour and helicopters." Yes, true, but whereas we are informed that the body armour issues are resolved, we still have inadequate Air support, of which the helicopter shortage is only one manifestation.

And you spoke of morale, and that you cannot insulate soldiers "from change because the world is changing around us." Smoke and mirrors again, Mr Hammond. It is not change that is destroying morale; it is that the MoD, your department, behaves dishonourably in so many ways.

As one example – A man may contract to serve from his 18th birthday until his 38th, giving twenty years of his life, for many their best years, to his country. In order to ensure that he stays for his full commitment the deal is that unless he stays until his 38th birthday he will not receive his pension entitlement. He agrees. That is the deal. It is easy for him to understand.

But if the MoD decides to boot him out during the month before his 38th birthday, as is reported, and as is condemned in an online petition, it is the MoD that has terminated the contract, and there is no moral or honourable excuse for cancelling his applicable pension rights. The worst the MoD can do is to say that the last year has been cut short by the MoD and that therefore only 95 per cent will be paid — but even that is dishonourable. It is, as my generation would say, not British. You should explain that too to the Prime Minister.

The Prime Minister badly needs your advice on another matter. He is reported as saying that "when we have an Army of 80,000 regulars rather than 100,000 regulars, we'll still be capable of doing things like we're doing in the Olympics." Now that really is reassuring. He should go with you onto Newsnight to tell al-Qa'ida that. The Americans will be pleased, too. They enjoy a laugh. (It recalls to mind another Prime Minister telling the troops in Helmand that they were showing "the same courage as our athletes in Peking.")

He has said also, to the same audience, that "the Army under our plans is going to be broadly the same because of course the Territorial Army … our reserves … goes up to 30,000." It is now, Mr Hammond, your sad duty to advise him that there is no one in the MoD who understands how the Territorial Army is manned, structured, restricted, trained, and paid who believes this for a moment.

Communication: Hammond has said "There's no point in having a cardboard Army." This is admirable, but he must tell this to the Prime Minister

There is no way you will find 30,000 trained reservists who can take the place of regular soldiers. Yes, you will find some, but the best estimate I have been given is around 2,500 (if we found 30,000 candidates) capable of leaving their jobs quickly and performing as well as, for example, an infantryman patrolling from a Forward Observation Base in Helmand. The second best figure I was given was 1,000.

We must return now to the heading of this article. You are asking the wrong questions. I heard your explanation today of the withdrawal scenario, and until I write on this subject again we shall have to agree to differ about its prospects, but one line you took cannot be accepted as valid. You appeared to suggest that the experience of our retreat from Iraq indicated we should succeed in a relatively trouble-free exit from Afghnistan.

====== 2298 ========

PEOPLE WILL HAPPILY BORROW TO PAY FOR THE GROTESQUE TRAPPINGS OF THE MODERN WEDDING, BUT IT IS ACTUALLY A PLEDGE OF LOVE

People will happily borrow to pay for the trappings of the modern wedding, but all you really need is a pledge of love

'I don't care too much for money, For money can't buy me love'

Move over Osborne, the real political anguish is right here in my table plan!

The bitter wranglings of weddings mean the most romantic day of a couple’s life is embroiled in the internal politics of the family. But worse than squabbling amongst inebriated guests is the financial strain the happy day foists on whoever’s paying for it – in my case, me.

Politics of love: The bitter wranglings of weddings mean the most romantic day of a couple's life is embroiled in the internal politics of the family

On average brides and grooms splash an obscene £21,000 to say their nuptials in style. Romance comes at a price often out of reach from the average Joe’s purse strings. It’s cheaper to fly across the world to a tacky chapel than to have a comparatively ‘small’ wedding in the UK. And by small I don’t mean a dozen guests – more like five or ten times that.

Even despite bitter years of recession, wedding prices have soared to new extremes. Take marquees for example… tents perfect for frustrated happy campers. To sit in a drafty canvass tepee costs around £5,000. Not for food and crockery… just empty space. Weddings really are a racket.



While the wealthy couple may justify expenses such as these in their £21,000 budget, normaltons gawp at the liberties taken because of the ‘w’ word. Maybe if the Government subsidised wedding reception costs, more of us would be happy to endorse Cameron’s pro-marriage mantra!

This is the sad truth. There are so many couples out there, both with and without kids, who would like to say ‘I will’ in front of families and friends but who are put off by expense. Who in their right mind if strapped for cash would pick a wedding over a mortgage deposit for a house? The romantic in us may, but the practical part of us wouldn’t.

Costly: Many couples, both with and without kids, are put off by expense of a modern wedding, which costs £21,000 on average

And this is my dilemma… should I have waited those ten, twenty long years to save up enough to buy a house and then marry later after many stretch marks and kids… or marry now and worry about the financial implications later? Now is a good time to buy a house, if only you can. Am I going to have to rent forever because I put all the money I have into my wedding? By the time I have saved up again the housing market may have recovered so much that I can’t afford anything – but I suppose the Chancellor might help me out on that score if he keeps up his current lousy performance.

So we decided to do it now, heart overruling head, but have had to badger our talented relatives to pay in kind-ness. So the clever organist, event planners, graphic designers, bakers and chefs in our families have been signed up for project get-this-wedding-off-the-ground-without-bankrupting-us-at-the-same-time. Voluntarily though of course!

The problem though is not so much the money side of it, but the expectation. The feeling is that if you are going to get married, you have to ‘do it properly’ – and all that entails. The only ones really benefitting are the suppliers who can add a zero to their quotes when they know it’s for a wedding. You can of course pay £50 for your marriage licence but the days of simple, no-fuss ceremonies have almost died out. Instead the bridal industry has created a monster, craving wedding décor galore, Jimmy Choos, gourmet menus and stretched limousines.

These bridezillas stalk wedding fair after wedding fair in their hunt for the next new fad at whatever price (it’s OK – daddy/credit card/wealthy fiancé will pay). Expectations of the day are as high as Everest. 12ft chocolate fountains, manor houses, gaudy rings and honeymoons in the Seychelles are must-haves – and they all share their clichéd ‘princess for a day’ dream.

They are boastful bores, who think that the only value of anything is monetary. Well frankly I for one resent having to pay through the nose for my nuptials, and I don’t feel the need to brag about how much stuff cost. It’s pathetic and vulgar – and that comes from someone without much money before you get any ideas! It’s about love, ladies, not pound signs, and I don’t care if your dress cost £50 or £5,000 as long as it looks good.

So much to do with modern weddings is posturing, keeping-up-with-the-joneses nonsense. People will happily borrow money to pay for the grotesque trappings of the modern ‘celebrity’-influenced ceremony, when we should all live within our means and remember what it’s really about – two people pledging themselves to each other for the rest of their lives.

Fortunately there are still some romantics out there, if you look hard enough, so maybe McCartney was right all along. Can’t Buy Me Love, everybody tells me so…





====== 2299 ========

SOON ALL SEX OFFENDERS LEAVING JAIL WILL HAVE TO TAKE A LIE-DETECTOR TEST. HOW LONG UNTIL SOMEONE CRIES 'HUMAN RIGHTS'?

Soon all sex offenders leaving jail will have to take a lie-detector test. How long until someone cries 'human rights'?



The announcement that the government is to make general the requirement for released sex offenders to take polygraph tests marks the end of a three-year-long experiment.



Since 2009, regulations have required sex offenders released on parole in the Midlands to take regular polygraph tests. The purpose was to see if those managing them were more likely to be able to judge the offenders’ inclination to commit a further crime.



A report released recently by researchers at the University of Kent reported on the outcome of the pilot. They concluded that the polygraph testing increased the chances that a sexual offender under supervision in the community would reveal information relevant to their management, and improve the ability to take remedial action to prevent harm to the public.

Good news for public safety: Lie detector tests were found to make offenders more honest with their probation officers

The use of polygraphs continues to be controversial. In 2010 the Indian Supreme Court condemned their use as ‘cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment’. In the USA, however, they are widely accepted and are in routine use for the management of sexual offenders.



The last government, which introduced the experiment, anticipated objections on ethical grounds. Specifically, they thought they would face claims that the measure infringed Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which protects individuals from disproportionate interference in their private lives. They argued that that any infringement of an individual’s rights in these circumstances would be justified on the grounds that it was a lawful measure concerned only with behaviour that might give rise to issues of public safety.



It was only a few months before exactly that challenge was made by a man who had been convicted of rape and indecent assault of his infant daughters. He was released on licence, requiring him to take polygraph tests. The court examined the specific reasons the requirement had been imposed on him. They paid particular attention to the fact that he had initially admitted his guilt and then withdrawn that admission and also that those managing him were aware he had on-going relationships with women who had children. The court considered that the imposition of polygraph testing was justified. Given the seriousness of the offences and the evidence available about the Claimant’s subsequent conduct and attitude, it was not disproportionate to impose the condition.



So does this mean that when the new law is implemented throughout the country it will be bomb proof? The government believe it is. They have repeated to all the press that when the compulsory use of ‘lie-detectors’ was challenged under human rights legislation the judges backed the use of polygraphs, saying they were proportionate.



====== 2300 ========

THE STATE MAKES FOR A BAD PARENT. THE NUMBER OF CHILDREN IT BRINGS UP SHOULD BE KEPT TO A MINIMUM

The state makes for a bad parent. The number of children it brings up should be kept to a minimum





Children leaving care are more likely to end up in prison than university. So it is excellent news(£) in The Times this morning regarding the Government's determination to reduce the number of children in care, by increasing the number placed for adoption.

It reports:



Babies taken into care will be looked after by the families who hope to adopt them under government plans to reduce the disruption young children suffer in early life.

Quicker process: Babies will be placed with foster families who want to adopt them under plans to reduce the disruption to children in care

David Cameron has told The Times that ministers will legislate to make fostering by approved adopters “standard practice” for infants under 1, so they can have a more stable start.



3,660 children under the age of one are in care. It takes an average of two years and three months for a child to be adopted - invariably being shunted around different foster carers including those providing respite care.



This cause great emotional damage, so often there is a grotesque self-fulfilling prophecy. The social workers decide that the child has become too wild in its behaviour for prospective adopters to cope, and the child remains in care.



Of course, the length of the bureaucratic delay is a scandal and should be sharply reduced. The delay varies sharply from one council to another as the transparency rules have now made clear.



But it also makes sense that, for however long the delay, the child should be placed with the couple lined up to adopt it, with the couple's status being foster carers.

The arrangement is not perfect - the prospective adopters would have the intrusion of endless social worker visits until the adoption was confirmed. There would also be the possibility of the adoption not being confirmed, and the courts deciding that the child should be taken from them and returned to its birth mother. But the foster first arrangement is still better than the alternative. The charity Corum trains prospectve adopters who are willing to foster first - "concurrent planning" as the arrangement is called. Of the 57 children placed, three were not adopted, but of the 54 who were, the results were a success.

Changes: David Cameron has said that new government plans will see babies placed with approved adopters who will foster first, and help provide a stable home at a much earlier stage in a child¿s life

David Cameron says:



“These new plans will see babies placed with approved adopters who will foster first, and help provide a stable home at a much earlier stage in a child’s life.



“This way, we’re trying our very best to avoid the disruption that can be so damaging to a child’s development and so detrimental to their future wellbeing. I’m determined that we act now to give these children the very best start in life. These babies deserve what every child deserves: a permanent, secure and happy home environment to grow up in.”



The change will come in under the Children and Families Bill will also prohibit that pernicious piece of political correctness that denied a loving home to black children on the grounds that an "ethnic match" could not be found in placing them for adoption.



Unfortunately it is necessary for some children to be taken into care. Their birth mother might have become a heroin addict and be incapable of looking after them. Indeed often the delay is too long before action is taken to rescue the child. But the presumption should not be for the child to stay in care for a prolonged period but to be placed for adoption.



For those children who do remain in care where possible they should be with foster carers rather than institutional children's homes. However boarding schools provide excellent results and far more children in care should be placed with them.

Caution: Labour's spokesman on children Lisa Nandy warned that a speedier process should not be at the expense of getting the right placement

Following the evidence to secure the best interests of the child should triumph - not the ideological prejudices of left wing social workers.



It also makes financial sense. There are 65,520 children in care, costing the taxpayer £3 billion a year. Most are shunted around foster carers. But around 11% are in institutional children's homes at a cost per child per year of £126,000 (Eton costs £31,000 a year).



There is nothing inevitable about the number of children stuck in the care system rising. In Hammersmith and Fulham, where I am a local councillor, the numbers have steadily fallen from 394 in 2006 to 223 now.



====== 2301 ========

THIS SUMMER OF PATRIOTIC FERVOUR SHOWS A CHANGING MOOD IN BRITISH CULTURE

An answer to the sneering of the liberal elite, and a change in the mood of the British people

With the main public Jubilee celebrations behind us (although not for the Queen of course) and the Olympics just round the corner, what is this summer of celebration telling us about the state of British patriotism?



Well, so far the messages are hugely encouraging. First of all, if there can be any doubt remaining about the Union flag – which, we were told, had been tainted by its association with extremists – then surely that can be put to rest. Whether worn, waved or hanging from the 1,500 miles of bunting sold by Tesco’s alone, the great majority of people showed an admirable lack of inhibition about displaying it. If ever the flag had gone over to ‘the dark side’ – something I always doubted myself – then it is firmly back in the light.



And then there has been the unembarrassed, un-ironic singing of the national anthem. So many people have commented on this to me: at street parties, private gatherings, and of course at the big public events in London, it appeared that grown men and women found nothing odd or weird in joining in choruses of God Save the Queen.



Proud: The country was festooned with Union Flags for the Jubilee celebrations

During my travels through the crowds that weekend, it also became clear that the bulk of them were aged between 20 and 50, with a huge preponderance of young families. This too, should be encouraging to all those who believe that Britain might be loosing any sense of itself.



Of course, all this comes as a bit of a shock to the great and the good of our liberal elites. Their surprise at the success of such occasions has become almost as much of a tradition as the events themselves. This time, it centred round the extent of the public anger over the lamentably feeble BBC coverage. The BBC appeared to show that they simply did not know or care about the kind of people who might want to watch or celebrate the river pageant – and in doing so betrayed their general discomfort with such uniquely British traditions. Rest assured, if this had been a massive celebration of Britain’s membership of the EU, for example, then the BBC would have got the tone, facts, and commentary absolutely right.

I’ve been observing all of this closely because my new book, Being British: What’s Wrong with it? tries to explain how we arrived at the odd situation in this country whereby, despite the majority of people rightly considering themselves proud to be British, there persists the strong sense that they should keep quiet about it, that they are wrong and mistaken, and that they should apologise and feel guilty.

They should feel none of these things of course. But over the past five decades they have faced a huge onslaught on not just their sense of pride, but their very identity. This has come from every angle: from a left wing teaching establishment, from a hostile media and academic elite, from multiculturalism and from a political class which appears less and less wedded to the country it is meant to serve.



Lamentable: The BBC's half-hearted coverage of the Jubilee river pageant betrayed its contempt for patriots and monarchists

It is possible however, to detect a distinct changing of the mood in Britain. And perhaps most importantly, those who have lived by the liberal/left political and social orthodoxies of the past forty years, and might have had some hand in imposing them, sense that they are loosing their grip on our culture and institutions.



Beliefs, indeed worldviews, which were largely anti-patriotic in tone and which were accepted for decades as being gospel, are being seriously challenged. The doctrine of multiculturalism, and the view that an ever closer integration with the EU was both inevitable and desirable, are just two examples where years of received wisdom are being upended.



But it goes further than this. Those people who have for years guided the values which inform public policy; who have decided what should be taught; who have set the terms on which welfare should be given; who make decisions about what we see and listen to: all these people feel the ground shifting uncomfortably beneath their feet.



It is not before time.



====== 2302 ========

IRELAND HAS NOW PASSED THE POINT WHERE IT CAN HONESTLY BE DEEMED AN INDEPENDENT COUNTRY

Ireland has now passed the point where it can honestly be deemed an independent country

Ireland’s ratification of the EU fiscal pact can only be described as abject.



There comes a point when a country has surrendered so much of its sovereignty that its claim to be a self-governing polity expires. Ireland has passed the point at which it can honestly be deemed an independent country. The Republic is in abeyance.



In approving Friday’s referendum, Ireland has voted to hand away its freedom to set its budget according to its own wishes. This absolutely basic task of government was already compromised under the terms of the country’s bail-out. This has already led to the dismaying spectacle of Irish budget details being considered in Berlin before being submitted to parliament in Dublin. Now Ireland has formally voted away its fiscal independence by submitting to Brussels’ superintendence of its future budgets.



Result: Ireland's voters have given their seal of approval to the European Union's deficit-fighting treaty

The surrender of monetary policy occurred when Ireland resolved to join the Euro, despite Britain, its most important trading partner, wisely resolving to opt out. Ireland is now a country without independent control over its currency, its taxation policies, or its spending. Added to scant control over its borders and its air, land and sea, can it truthfully any longer be called an independent country?

The effects of this stripping away of self-government are silent but pernicious.



This week’s referendum was a case in point. The campaign was desultory on both sides, distinguished most of all by a thorough-going cynicism and fatalism. Few in Ireland seriously doubted that rejection of the fiscal compact would inevitably be followed by a second referendum. The Nice Treaty was ran a second time in Ireland, as was the Lisbon Treaty, after both were initially rejected. It is now near impossible to get a believable verdict from the Irish electorate on a European treaty.

Prognosis: Critics warn that tougher deficit rules will do nothing to stimulate desperately needed growth

If turnout figures are a reliable indication, many voters who would ordinarily vote against EU treaties no longer both to travel to the ballot box, knowing that their wishes will simply by overturned or bypassed. This is an electorate bruised by the abuse of referendums by the Eurofederalist Irish elite and cowed by the thought that disobedience to the wishes of Brussels would see the country pauperised with the ruthlessness with which Greece is being ground into the dust to appease the debts of German holders of Greek bonds.



Decision: In approving the referendum, Ireland has voted to hand away its freedom to set its budget according to its own wishes

Then there is the effect of infantilising national politics. Now that the serious decisions concerning Ireland’s future are taken in Europe rather than in Dublin, Irish politics has taken on a puerile aspect, as the only issues within the remit of her politicians are the trivial. Recent months have been consumed by an irrelevant but ferocious controversy over the introduction of a new charge on homeowners. The sums involved are utterly derisory compared with the sums at stake in Ireland’s punitive bail-out. This is the politics of the playground. It is the politics of a country deprived of freedom of choice over the crucial questions concerning its own destiny.



This is seen also in the increasing tendency of the Irish electorate to behave as craven supplicants rather than as citizens of a Republic. The appetite for national independence is nowhere to be seen. The indignity of being a subject province of the emerging Brussels imperium is rarely discussed let alone decried.



So what was it all for, all the long decades of miserable attempts at demonstrating Irish independence? What was the bloody separation from Britain for, if national independence is so lightly esteemed that it is cast away for the improved prospects of a hand-out from another imperial hegemon? What was the point of Ireland’s preening neutrality during the Second World War, to the cost of countless Allied seamen? To what end has the murderous mythology of Irish republican irredentism been tolerated and nurtured well into living memory, if the status of province rather than republic is the willing choice of the Irish elite?



====== 2303 ========

MITT ROMNEY IS WINNING BIG AFTER SUPER TUESDAY

Ignore reports that say otherwise, Mitt Romney is winning big after Super Tuesday

Where has this perception - myth even come from? The perception that Mitt Romney hasn't sealed the deal.



Yes, he may have won the all important Ohio Primary by just 1 percentage point, but a win is a win.



Not closing the deal, let's look at some facts:



- Romney took 6 out of ten states on offer yesterday.



- He's won 8 out of the 13 primaries so far and six out of 10 state caucuses.



Win: Mitt Romney won 6 out of the 10 states yesterday, and has won 8 out of the 13 primaries thus far

But ultimately, this game is all about delegates, not states or popular votes or even being the best singer. The nomination goes to the candidate with 1,144 delegates.



According to the latest delegate estimates (via CNN) Mr. Romney --with 404 delegates-- has over 55% of the total votes so far and is over a third of the way to reaching the magic 1,144 number.



As far as the notion that the Non-Rom vote being split between Santorum and Gingrich and what is needed for one or the other to drop out -- in fact Mr. Romney's 404 delegates still beats the other three candidates totals combined (337) by 67 delegates.



Success: Romney may have won the all important Ohio Primary by just 1 percentage point, but a win is a win

Romney has almost 2-1/2 times (2.44) as many delegates as his closest competitor, Rick Santorum.



He's also carried the most important battleground states so far, including Florida, and now Ohio.



Strategist Dick Morris has done the math. After Super Tuesday, says Morris, with a third of the delegates awarded, we are now at a point where we can - as with football in this country - do the math to see how many games a team (or candidate) needs to win the division. According to Morris, for either Gingrich or Santorum to win the nomination they would need to win two-thirds of the remaining delegates. Thats almost impossible.



Dick Morris says we need to "come to grips" with the fact that the only person who can be nominated by May or June is Romney. For the others it would take until the convention in August; that's too long and leaves too little time and money to mount a serious campaign against Mr. Obama.



One of the reasons that Romney has not sealed the deal is due to an anomaly in the Republican system. Most states now award their delegates proportionally instead of winner-takes-all. So, for instance, Where Newt Gingrich crows about his win in Georgia last nigh 2d place Mr. Romney still picked up 10 delegates.



We are too busy talking states when, more accurately, we should concentrate on the delegate count where Mr. Romney clearly leads.



Game is up? According to one strategist, for either Gingrich or Santorum to win the nomination they would need to win two-thirds of the remaining delegates - something which is virtually impossible

Republicans (including Messrs. Santorum and Gingrich) need to realise what this campaign is about. Exit poll after exit poll has clearly stated that voters by a large majority are looking for a candidate who can address the economy and defeat Mr. Obama; they clearly identify Mr. Romney as that man. Sen. Santorum is respected for his socially conservative views, but this is not a year for social conservatism, it's the economy stupid!



Meanwhile, we have a president who is trying to stop Israel from striking Iran not because it is the correct thing to do, but because Mr. Obama fears getting involved in a war at this time -- because it will effect his chances of re-election. There can be no greater condemnation of a president than one who puts his politics before his duty. For Obama, self over the national security interests of his country and needs of an important ally it was an easy and self-centered choice.



Issue: An anomaly in the Republican system may be one of the reasons that Romney is yet to seal the deal

====== 2304 ========

WHAT IS SOOTY DOING IN THE KING'S SPEECH?

What IS Sooty doing in The King's Speech?



You don’t have to be so very old to remember when George VI was King. During my ­toddlerhood in the late ­Forties, his was the profile on British stamps, and taxes were ­collected ‘On His Majesty’s Service’.

Child though I was, I sensed something tragic and haunted, as well as ineffably kind, in that lean, unsmiling Windsor face. When I heard of some criminal being ‘detained at His Majesty’s pleasure’, I felt that such a nice man was bound to show mercy sooner rather than later.

The new film The King’s Speech (whose star, Colin Firth, was honoured in Sunday’s Golden Globe awards) gives long-overdue credit to George VI, the most quietly courageous of our modern monarchs and source of almost everything dutiful and steadfast in his daughter, our Queen.

Mistakes: Like almost all 'period' film these days The King's Speech is riddled with historical distortions, over-simplifications and out-of-period anachronisms

The movie traces the young King-to-be’s struggle to overcome his stammer with the help of a pioneering Australian speech therapist, Lionel Logue. As a result, he is able to rally the nation with a faultless, inspiring address over the BBC just as the war-clouds are gathering.

Yet I watched it in a state of ­agonised suspense unconnected with whether he would succeed in spitting out the next syllable. For like almost every ‘period’ film nowadays, and ­certainly every British one, it is ­riddled with preposterous historical distortions, over-simplifications and out-of-period anachronisms.

Admittedly, no film can be an exact and comprehensive recreation of real events, otherwise there would be no dramatic tension and the thing would have to go on for hours.

So one can overlook the fact that the real crisis over the Prince’s stammer — mainly the result of his father’s blustering cruelties — started in the early Twenties rather than the middle Thirties. One can accept the film’s monkeying around with historical fact in relation to the main political ­players: Prime Minister Stanley ­Baldwin and Winston Churchill (a miscast Timothy Spall).

Worst crime of all: One scene in The King's Speech mentions Sooty - despite the film being set in the 1930s and the puppet not getting busy until 1948

One can even accept Helena Bonham Carter, usually such a sensitive actress, playing Queen Elizabeth as a sharp-tongued snob, crushing ordinary people as the future, lovely Queen Mum would never have dreamed of doing.

But the first rule of film-writing, laid down by the famous screenwriter Robert McKee, is: ‘Thou shalt know thy world and everything in it as well as thou knowest thyself.’

Sadly, the scenes in The King’s Speech don’t take place in the world of Thirties Britain — or any other that ever existed.

No dinner-jacketed BBC executive, surrounded by heavy stand-microphones, would have talked about a royal broadcast ‘going out live tonight’.

Also, rather than George VI’s Coronation in 1937 being organised, as such events had been for generations, by the Earl-Marshal of England and hundreds of officials, the film suggested it was orchestrated by the Archbishop of Canterbury (Derek Jacobi), fussing over the seating for Westminster Abbey as if for some provincial whist-drive.

Until now, my mental Oscar for Most Ridiculous Moment in any film went to the scene in Quentin Tarantino’s Kill Bill when a character travels by plane with a huge, naked samurai sword on the next seat.

That is now supplanted by the ­climactic sequence in The King’s Speech when the Prince and Logue hold a pre-Coronation rehearsal in a deserted Westminster Abbey using King Edward’s Chair, which has been moved from its centuries-old resting place with the Stone of Scone.

Monarch-to-be and his disrespectful Australian therapist have a furious row, which still attracts no attention until the Archbishop of Canterbury himself — who evidently lives over the shop — comes bumbling in.

Even worse, the film neglects a piece of real drama involving the King and the unpleasant Archbishop. A couple of days after George VI became King, the Archbishop made a singularly insensitive broadcast, calling attention to the ‘occasional and momentary ­hesitation’ in the new monarch’s speech, which devastated the King and almost undid all Logue’s good work.

Ridiculous moment: A scene in Quentin Tarantino's Kill Bill saw a character travel by plane with a huge samurai sword on the next seat

The other great recent offender in such matters was ITV’s hugely-­successful Edwardian drama Downton Abbey, written by Julian Fellowes. I intended to avoid this series, having previously managed to sit through only about five minutes of Fellowes’ Oscar-winning Twenties country house movie, Gosford Park.

In that, a character was shown flagging down a liveried chauffeur in a vintage Rolls-Royce and, like some American hippy hitch-hiker, asking: ‘Where are you headed?’

Another character was being sympathised with for their hard lot and lapsed into similar 21st-century Yank-speak: ‘It comes with the territory.’

However, the praise for Downton Abbey was so extravagant I felt obliged to take a look. And, lo and behold, here was an Edwardian kitchenmaid announcing, like some modern agony aunt, her philosophy was: ‘Live every day to the full.’

Next came a footman being criticised by a colleague, and snapping: ‘Cut me some slack, will you!’

There’s less excuse for Fellowes, who is old enough to know that Britons who lived eight and nine decades ago never used expressions like that.

The sad truth is that most younger writers assume that people in other ages spoke and behaved just as we do today, shrieking four-letter words, hugging each other when they met, saying ‘I’ll get it’ if a doorbell or phone rang, or at moments of triumph punching the air and shouting: ‘Yessss!’

Inaccuracies: ITV drama Downton Abbey used phrases that would never have been uttered 80 or 90 years ago

The National Theatre production of Rebecca Lenkiewicz’s Her Naked Skin, a play with a ‘new take’ on suffragettes in 1913, focused on sex, specifically ­lesbianism, as much as politics.

But worst of all was its awful American soap-style lapses. During a scene in a Pall Mall gentlemen’s club, a member called to the barman: ‘Give Lord Curzon a drink and put it on my tab.’ A husband, remonstrating with his suffragette wife, said: ‘I just want you to be happy is all.’

Call me a pedant if you will, but I’m hardly preaching revolution. Until quite recently, in both film and television, getting the period right, or at least not too glaringly wrong, was an automatic part of the production process.

Big-screen epics such as Lawrence Of Arabia, The Charge Of The Light Brigade or even Spartacus, while ­predominantly action-based, still managed to avoid lines whose incongruity set your teeth on edge.

On television, producers like John Hawkesworth studied and meticulously recreated the real world of their stories, like The Duchess Of Duke Street.

Oh, I forgot to mention The King’s Speech’s worst crime of all. One scene has Helena Bonham Carter’s bitchy Queen Elizabeth trying to strike up a rapport with Lionel Logue’s children by asking: ‘Do you like Sooty?’

Sooty . . . in the Thirties? Actually that most malevolent of glove puppets didn’t come along until 1948 with his hammer and ink squirt and magic words: ‘Izzy-wizzy, let’s get busy.’

Izzy-wizzy . . . once again a scriptwriter didn’t get busy enough.



====== 2305 ========

CRAIG BROWN: EEK! IT’S THE CURSE OF THE BAD THRILLER MOVIE

We thought we’d watch a thriller, so I turned to Amazon Prime and found one called Fear.

The description read: ‘Mark Wahlberg, Reese Witherspoon and Alyssa Milano star in this riveting suspense-thriller about a passionate romance that transforms into a nightmarish obsession.’ This seemed to tick the right boxes, so I pressed the button to buy it.

The film opened at an attractive wooden house beside a lake. A man was running in some woods. As he arrived at the house, I experienced a strong sense of deja vu.

One of the movies featured Richard Gere, pictured, starring with Kim Basinger

‘I think we might have seen this one before,’ I said. And soon the whole plot had come back to me: against her parents’ advice, Reese Witherspoon falls for a young man who turns out to be a psycho, the dog gets killed, and then the dad gets killed and it all ends in a bloodbath.

Why hadn’t I remembered seeing it before? I told myself that Fear was an oddly forgettable title, which could be applied to any thriller.

We thought we’d cut our losses, or rather double our losses, but cut our boredom, by ordering another thriller instead. So we clicked on ‘Customers Also Watched...’, and up came a list of other thrillers on offer.

First was Guilty As Sin with Rebecca De Mornay. ‘A hot-shot criminal defence attorney is caught in a web of manipulation by her smooth-talking playboy client accused of murder,’ read the description. Had we already watched this one, too? I certainly didn’t want to be caught out again. So we clicked on the next.

One of the movies on offer featured Mark Wahlberg, pictured right

Up came Final Analysis with Richard Gere and Kim Basinger. ‘Psychological thriller about a psychiatrist who becomes a murder suspect after allowing himself to become more than professionally involved with two wacky sisters.’

Had we seen this one? We had certainly watched a number of thrillers with Richard Gere playing smooth, upmarket characters who either aren’t suspected of what they have done or are suspected of what they haven’t done. In fact, it’s high time an ambitious director cast him as a man who is suspected of what he has done, or — even more radical — isn’t suspected of what he hasn’t done.

Worried we had seen Final Analysis before, I clicked on the next: No Good Deed. ‘Terri is a devoted wife and mother of two, living an ideal suburban life in Atlanta when Colin, a charming but dangerous escaped convict, shows up at her door claiming car trouble.’

This, too, sounded familiar. In thrillers, charming but dangerous escaped convicts are always showing up at ideal suburban doors, most of them claiming car trouble.

Next! Trapped with Kevin Bacon. ‘When Will and Karen are held hostage and their daughter is abducted, a relentless 24-hour plan is set in motion that will challenge everything they took for granted.’ Next! Deceived with Goldie Hawn. ‘A wife discovers evidence of her husband’s murder.’ Next! Domestic Disturbance with John Travolta. ‘A divorced father discovers that his 12-year-old son’s new stepfather is not what he made himself out to be.’ Next! Guilty As Sin with Rebecca De Mornay. ‘A hot-shot criminal defence attorney is caught in a web of . . .’

This one certainly rang a bell. Ah, yes! I had been reading about it barely two minutes before. And so it went on. By now, I was beginning to suspect that I had already watched every thriller that had ever been made, and a good proportion of those that haven’t yet been made.

‘When a young doctor suspects she may not be alone in her new Brooklyn loft, she learns that her landlord has formed a frightening obsession with her,’ reads the description for a film called The Resident. Who could honestly remember whether they have seen it or not?

By now, thrillers have run through every plot variation, countless times: the man who is not who he says he is, the charmer who turns out to be a crazy psycho, the woman who senses there’s someone else in the house, the passionate romance that turns into a nightmarish obsession. And so on, and so on.

Over time, the suspense thriller has lost all its suspense and all its thrills. Instead, it has become comforting in its predictability, like a cuddly toy, or a digestive biscuit.

====== 2306 ========

ASTRONAUTS SUFFER SERIOUS INSOMNIA WHILE IN SPACE

Sleep, the final frontier: Astronauts suffer serious insomnia while in space - and it could be putting their lives in danger

They found that on average astronauts get less than six hours sleep a night on orbiting space shuttles and just over six hours on ISS missions

This was despite the American space agency Nasa scheduling 8.5 hours of sleep per night for space-travelling astronauts

Around 75% of astronauts resorted to sleeping pills during spaceflight, raising concerns about the effect drugs may be having on their performance

In space, no one can hear you snore - but that's probably because you're not asleep.



Most astronauts suffer serious levels of sleep deprivation that could be putting their lives in danger, a study has revealed.

The reasons for this are poorly understood, but the sun rising and setting every 90 minutes when orbiting Earth on the International Space Station (ISS) is thought to be one possible cause.

Scroll down for video

Day and night: Astronauts (Mike Hopkins is pictured) living on the International Space Station must contend with the bizarre notion of the sun rising and setting every 90 minutes as they orbit Earth. This, scientists believe, could be one of the reasons for the disturbed sleep patterns observed in the Harvard study



Scientists studied the sleep patterns of 64 astronauts on 80 space shuttle missions and 21 International Space Station (ISS) crew members before, during and after spaceflight.

ONE GIANT LEAF FOR MANKIND...

A functioning man-made leaf (pictured, right) that absorbs water and carbon dioxide to produce oxygen, just like natural leaves, has been created by an art graduate.

The new material could provide a steady source of oxygen for humans on long missions in space and even help us colonise new planets.

Designer Julian Melchiorri claims that the leaves they could be dumped on planets that humans will colonise, as 'real' plants cannot grow in zero gravity.

The material is made up of chloroplasts from plant cells that are suspended in a web of silk protein. The protein is extracted from natural silk fibres.

They found that on average astronauts get less than six hours sleep a night on orbiting space shuttles and just over six hours on ISS missions.

This was despite the American space agency Nasa scheduling 8.5 hours of sleep per night for space-travelling astronauts.

Around three-quarters of astronauts also resorted to sleeping pills during spaceflight, raising concerns about the effect the drugs may be having on their performance.

Dr Laura Barger, from Harvard Medical School in Boston who led the study reported in the journal The Lancet Neurology, said: 'Sleep deficiency is pervasive among crew members.

'It’s clear that more effective measures are needed to promote adequate sleep in crew members, both during training and spaceflight, as sleep deficiency has been associated with performance decrements in numerous laboratory and field-based studies.'

She added: 'The ability for a crew member to optimally perform if awakened from sleep by an emergency alarm may be jeopardised by the use of sleep-promoting pharmaceuticals. Routine use of such medications by crew members operating spacecraft is of particular concern.'

Government health guidelines warned patients taking sleeping pills not to engage in hazardous occupations requiring a high degree of mental alertness and co-ordination, Dr Barger pointed out.

Scientists also believe that microgravity (water under microgravity conditions, with astronaut Chris Hadfield in the background, pictured) could be causing ISS inhabitants to lose valuable sleep and resort to sleeping pills



'This consideration is especially important because all crew members on a given mission may be under the influence of a sleep-promoting medication at the same time,' she said. 'In fact, on the four shuttle missions on which all crew members participated, all crew members reported taking sleep-medications on the same night 6 per cent of the time.'

With the sun rising and setting every 90 minutes, Earth orbit is known to be non-conducive to sleep.



The Apollo astronauts complained that their sleep was interrupted by light, noise and the cooling systems in space suits.

But sleep disturbance continues to affect astronauts despite the quiet and dark 'sleep stations' installed on the ISS, leading some scientists to speculate that microgravity itself may be to blame.



However the research showed that sleep deficiency began to build up in astronauts long before a mission launch.

On average, crew members enjoyed less than 6.5 hours sleep a night during training some three months before taking off into space - about half an hour less than the average American adult.

After missions ended however, at least half of the astronauts found they gained a great deal more sleep.



Just 12 per cent of sleep sessions on the space shuttle and 24 per cent on the ISS lasted seven hours or more, compared with 42 per cent and 50 per cent after the same crew members had finished their missions.



TO BOLDLY GO...: SCIENTIST REVEALS HOW ASTRONAUTS GO TO THE TOILET

Montana-based scientist Hank Green has revealed all you could ever want to know about microgravity toilets in his latest video. Green explains that astronauts perform numbers one and two using a suction system, and some of the waste is reused on the ISS for life-essential systems. On Earth, we are used to toilet seats about 12 to 28 inches (30 to 45cm) in diameter, but in space astronauts must contend with an opening that’s about four inches (ten centimetres) wide when they do a 'number two'. They use restraints to hold themselves to the seat, which ensures that no waste can escape while they sit down and do their business. To train astronauts to do this, Nasa has a toilet with a camera inside so they can practice positioning themselves correctly when they sit down. ‘The toilet itself works like a vacuum cleaner, using differential air pressure to suck the solid waste away,’ continues Green in the video. The waste is not jettisoned into space, however, and is instead stored on the station to be disposed of on a capsule returning to Earth.



Astronauts’ sleep patterns were studied using an actigraph, a device worn on the wrist which records sleep and wake cycles.

Researchers also looked at diary entries from astronauts recording alertness and sleep quality.

Co-author Dr Charles Czeisler, also from Harvard Medical School, said: 'Future exploration spaceflight missions to the moon, Mars, or beyond will require more effective countermeasures to optimise human performance by promoting sleep during spaceflight.

'These may include modifications to schedules, strategically timed exposure to specific wavelengths of light, and behavioural strategies to ensure adequate sleep, which is essential for maintaining health, performance and safety.'

Commenting on the findings in the journal, Dr Mathias Basner from the University of Pennsylvania, US, stressed the need for more research on the effects of space travel on sleep.

'Only four people have consecutively lived and worked for more than one year in space,' he said. 'As such, how sleep and behavioural health will be affected during space exploration is poorly understood.

====== 2307 ========

SEBASTIAN O KELLY FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

The great university bubble is deflating fast as one in ten A-level students say higher tuition fees next year have put them off the whole idea. In addition, half of those polled by BBC Inside Out/ComRes said they would go to the local university to save money. The idea that 'uni' was for all created an apparently copperbottomed rental sector. Smallscale landlords made fortunes out of students, and corporate giants such as Unite cashed in with private halls of residence. ...read

====== 2308 ========

TUITION FEES 2012: STUDENT FEES HIKE IS BURSTING A RENTAL BUBBLE

MARKET WATCH



The student fees hike is bursting a rental bubble



The great university bubble is deflating fast as one in ten A-level students say higher tuition fees next year have put them off the whole idea.



In addition, half of those polled by BBC Inside Out/ComRes said they would go to the local university to save money.



The idea that 'uni' was for all created an apparently copper-bottomed rental sector. Small-scale landlords made fortunes out of students, and corporate giants such as Unite cashed in with private halls of residence.



Downturn: Northern cities such as Leeds and Newcastle had an abundance of rental property still available this October

But the bubble is bursting. Banks such as Barclays and RBS have already begun curbing their lending to wannabe student landlords because of the fees hike.

And there is plenty of evidence that the market is saturated in some areas. Northern cities such as Leeds and Newcastle had an abundance of rental property still available this October.



Alister Hewgill, Aston University's chief finance officer, has even criticised Birmingham city council for approving two new private halls of residence on the grounds that there are already too many student flats available.



Hewgill is expecting demand for student housing to fall because of higher tuition fees.



Fiona Macaskill, 58, an ex-teacher turned landlady with 40 properties in the Frenchay area of Bristol housing 200 students, claims that she is not unduly worried by falling numbers, even though University of the West of England provides the bulk of her client base.

'I have never had a void and ensure that I provide the best possible accommodation at a medium price,' says Fiona, who charges students between £58 and £81 a week. 'Bad landlords will always have difficulty filling their houses.



====== 2309 ========

BRENDON MCCULLUM: STEVE SMITH WILL LIVE TO REGRET BEN STOKES DISMISSAL... HE MISSED CHANCE TO STRIKE BLOW FOR SPIRIT OF CRICKET

, but some things are too valuable to spoil

It’s probably too early in Steve Smith’s captaincy career to appreciate this but one day he’ll look back at the Ben Stokes dismissal at Lord’s on Saturday and realise he missed a great opportunity to strike a blow for the spirit of cricket.

We’ve all done things on the field that we regret later. I know I certainly have. But it was disappointing that Smith had a chance to make a statement about the way he wants his side to play the game and chose to go the other way.

Don’t get me wrong: winning is important. But the longer you play this game the more you realise that some things are too valuable to spoil.

Brendon McCullum believes Steve Smith will one day look back at the dismissal of Ben Stokes at Lord's

McCullum thinks it was disappointing because Smith had chance to make a statement about how his side play

According to McCullum Smith showed his immaturity by not withdrawing his appeal during Saturday's game

Australia captain Smith and England's Eoin Morgan argue about the Stokes dismissal at Lord's on Saturday

By not withdrawing the appeal, Smith showed his immaturity. He may live to regret it.

I say that from experience, not because I want to have a pop at Smith. There was a Test match where I ran out Muttiah Muralitharan while he was celebrating his partner Kumar Sangakkara’s hundred. I’d have done that differently now.

But I do wonder how Michael Clarke would have handled the situation had he still been in charge. I’m pretty sure he’d have withdrawn the appeal. I’m also pretty sure that Eoin Morgan would have done so, too.

As for the current New Zealand side, I reckon none of us would have appealed in the first place.

I’m not trying to set us up as being holier-than-thou. I just know how much we’ve discussed the way we want to play the game. Something would have told us that appealing for obstructing the field in those circumstances wasn’t right.

WHO ELSE FELL FOUL OF LAW 37? ENGLAND’S Len Hutton is the only man to be out ‘obstructing the field’ in a Test, at The Oval against South Africa in 1951. Stokes is the first England player to be given out this way in an ODI and the sixth ever, joining FOUR Pakistanis: Ramiz Raja (Pak) v England, Karachi, Nov 20, 1987. Mohinder Amarnath (Ind) v Sri Lanka, Ahmedabad, Oct 22, 1989. Inzamam-ul-Haq (Pak) v India, Peshawar, Feb 6, 2006. Mohammad Hafeez (Pak) v South Africa, Durban, Mar 21, 2013. Anwar Ali (Pak) v South Africa, Port Elizabeth, Nov 27 2013.

My instant reaction when I saw the dismissal was that Stokes was trying to protect himself. The slow-motion replays become irrelevant, because it was a split-second decision by him to stick his glove out.

The fact that the ball hit him in the meat of the hand doesn’t look good. But if he’s good enough to stop the ball from a few yards away with his head turned, he’s playing a different game to the rest of us!

I found it odd that two experienced on-field umpires felt the need to go upstairs to their TV colleague, especially after they’d signalled that they thought Stokes was not out. The protocol will need looking at.

But in a sense none of that matters. What is more important is the way cricket is played. And I felt Smith got it wrong.

The key for England now is not to get too emotional about the whole thing. I remember an incident at The Oval in 2008, when we were fuming about the run-out of Grant Elliott, who had been knocked to the ground by Ryan Sidebottom.

Australia look on as Morgan (C) and Smith exchange words with umpire Kumar Dharmasena on Saturday

Ben Stokes vents his anger after being given out for obstruction after Mitchell Starc threw the ball at the wicket

We obviously felt an injustice had been done but looking back we didn’t cover ourselves in glory with the way we celebrated on the balcony after we won the game off the last ball.

Our emotions got the better of us and it’s up to Morgan now to make sure England move on and focus on Tuesday's game in Manchester.

====== 2310 ========

BACH 333 REVIEW: NOT CHEAP BUT WORTH EVERY PENNY

Bach 333: The New Complete Edition DG/Decca, out now

Rating:

The 333 years since the birth of J S Bach isn’t really an anniversary, merely an excuse. But who cares when this is a real milestone in the history of recorded sound: the issue of every known piece by Bach on 222 CDs, amounting to more than 280 hours of music.

In his own lifetime, J S Bach merely had a regional reputation. He became accepted as a truly great composer only after his rediscovery by Mendelssohn in the 1820s-30s.

And it took a further century for chamber orchestras to emerge able to perform Bach’s greatest pieces in a way that does them justice.

The issue is extremely well documented, with a lavishly illustrated biography of Bach. It isn’t cheap, retailing at more than £300, but it’s worth every penny if you can afford it

Bach not only wrote great orchestral music, he also wrote great vocal and instrumental pieces. As for his keyboard music, it is the greatest-ever contribution to the organ repertoire.

Although Bach lived for 65 years, the sheer scale of his productivity is astonishing, even by the standards of Mozart.

Speaking of Mozart, there is an obvious learning curve from this label’s 2016 box of Mozart’s complete works to this one.

This Bach box wins through in the choices of recordings, based around historically informed performances, but including more than 50 CDs of recordings either employing modern instruments or of real historical significance.

I would not want to be without modern piano performances by the likes of Andras Schiff, Martha Argerich and Alfred Brendel. Nor historic performances by artists like Adolf Busch, Albert Schweitzer, Pablo Casals and Glenn Gould.

The issue is extremely well documented, with a lavishly illustrated biography of Bach. It isn’t cheap, retailing at more than £300, but it’s worth every penny if you can afford it.

ALBUM OF THE WEEK

Renaud Capuçon Cinema Out now

Rating:

If you want to put a melody-packed CD into a loved one’s stocking this Christmas, look no further than this

Renaud Capuçon has been in love with film music since, as a 12-year-old, he happened upon Ennio Morricone’s marvellous score for Cinema Paradiso.

A fine arrangement of that music for violin and orchestra is the first of 19 movie excerpts that make up this well-filled 76-minute album.

Most people will know The Godfather, Out Of Africa and Summer Of ’42, but stuff like Michel Legrand’s score for Yentl, or Philippe Rombi’s for Joyeux Noël, are pleasing rarities.

If you want to put a melody-packed CD into a loved one’s stocking this Christmas, look no further than this.

====== 2311 ========

FANTASTIC BEASTS - THE CRIMES OF GRINDELWALD REVIEW: ONE BIG ROWLING FILM TOO FAR

Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes Of Grindelwald Cert: 12A, 2hrs 14mins

Rating:

Two years ago, almost to the day, I surprised myself by absolutely loving Fantastic Beasts And Where To Find Them, the first film to come from the magical pen of J K Rowling since Harry Potter got all grown-up, married Ginny, had kids and became something dull at the Ministry of Magic.

This was a fresh start and I adored almost everything about what was billed – and still is, as far as I know – the first in a five-film series.

I loved the wonderful visual effects that allowed the delicious re-creation of New York in the Twenties, I loved Eddie Redmayne’s floppily foppish performance as magi-zoologist Newt Scamander, and I loved that Rowling was at last getting to show what she could do with a cast of good actors playing proper grown-up characters.

The problem is that Eddie Redmayne’s performance as Scamander seems to amount to little more than a floppy fringe, mumbled affectation and a rather confused love life

I even loved the potentially very silly ‘fantastic beasts’ – all those nifflers, bowtruckles and vast erumpents – and, as I awarded the whole thing a stonking five stars, found myself admitting that I’d been moved to the brink of tears by the touching final scenes. Baked goods and magical memory wipes always get me that way.

Two years on, however, as the second film arrives in cinemas, my reaction couldn’t be more dismayingly different.

The Crimes Of Grindelwald is an unmagical muddle weighed down with too many characters making too many speeches, desperately hoping that the still-excellent visual effects will get them out of trouble. Sadly, for all but the most hardcore Rowling fan, they won’t.

This time around, I was bored, then confused, then pretty much gave up. I didn’t know where Newt and the gang were heading but, even more importantly, I didn’t care either.

Something has clearly gone badly wrong, with the most likely explanation being a misplaced faith on the part of the all-powerful Rowling, who once again provides her own screenplay, that she can always write her way out of trouble, introducing a new character here, adding a new bit of convenient magic there. Here, however, it’s trouble she writes herself straight into.

Is it Tina (Katherine Waterston) or Leta Lestrange (Zoe Kravitz, above), he’s supposed to be in love with? I didn’t care but, more damagingly, as far as I could tell, nor did Newt

It’s tempting to say that the problems are apparent right from the start, but that wouldn’t be true. I enjoyed getting reacquainted with the evil wizard Gellert Grindelwald (Johnny Depp), whose aim is evil dominion over the non-maj or Muggle world. Thank heaven, then, that Newt and the gang are around to stop him, no?

The problem is that this time Redmayne’s performance as Scamander seems to amount to little more than a floppy fringe, mumbled affectation and a rather confused love life.

Is it Tina (Katherine Waterston) or his brother’s fiancee, Leta Lestrange (Zoe Kravitz), he’s supposed to be in love with? Once again, I certainly didn’t care but, more damagingly, as far as I could tell, nor did Newt.

As the action races between late Twenties London and Paris (neither as memorably recreated as New York in the first film), the problem of keeping up becomes more serious.

IT'S A FACT A hungry aardvark sabotaged a final-draft email from J K Rowling to her publisher, by chewing through a power cable in South Africa.

Yes, it’s a nice moment of Potter completeness when we meet a young Albus Dumbledore – now played by Jude Law. But it soon passes, with Law, despite doing his actorly best, left short of good lines and discovering that a lot of the much vaunted subplot about Dumbledore’s sexuality seems to have gone missing in the edit.

There are other times when reprises of the world of Potter are clearly supposed to deliver hairs-on-the-back-of-the-neck moments. But even a return to Hogwarts feels forced and emotionally manipulative, as do glimpses of the quidditch stadium and a young Professor McGonagall.

It’s possible that a quick rewatch of Fantastic Beasts And Where To Find Them might help with the complexities of the plotting here.

For me, however, this feels like one big Rowling film too far, and the moment I fell out of love with her sprawling magical universe. Although, of course, it may turn out to be a temporary blip.

We shall see, but, for the time being, it’s symptomatic of the entire film that my only reaction to its big climatic revelation was a disappointed and incredulous: ‘What?’

And that’s not good.

SECOND SCREEN

Suspiria (18)

Rating:

Dead In A Week (Or Your Money Back) (15)

Rating:

Siberia (15)

Rating:

Suspiria is a technically exquisite remake of Dario Argento’s classic Italian horror film of 1977 and clearly a labour of love for its director, Luca Guadagnino.

But be warned: this is a homage not just to the cult original but to a time when horror films such as The Wicker Man got nastier and nastier as they went on.

The new version of Suspiria is set in late Seventies Berlin and Dakota Johnson plays Susie, a young American dancer who successfully auditions for the Markos Dance Company and immediately comes under the witchful, sorry, watchful eye of charismatic Madame Blanc (Tilda Swinton), who is soon obsessed with her new pupil.

Suspiria is a technically exquisite remake of Dario Argento’s classic Italian horror film of 1977 and clearly a labour of love for its director, Luca Guadagnino. Above: it's star Tilda Swinton

All, of course, is not what it seems. Keep a lookout for Swinton playing at least one other character, some startling contemporary dance, and for Jessica Harper, who played the lead in the original and who pops up in a touching cameo. Just don’t eat beforehand.

By contrast, Dead In A Week (Or Your Money Back) is a misfiring black comedy about a suicidal writer (Aneurin Barnard) who hires an assassin (Tom Wilkinson) to do the job for him.

As for Siberia with Keanu Reeves, it’s one of the most slow-moving and tedious diamond-smuggling thrillers you’ll never see.

====== 2312 ========

CRAIG BROWN EVENT FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

Oddly enough, Daniel Rosenthal, the editor of these letters from and about the National Theatre, talks of ‘the raw, unmediated candour of private letters’, and argues that they are more revealing than biographies or memoirs. He says that he read 12,000 letters before picking 800. Without seeing the missing 11,200, it is hard to know how well he has done his job, but some of those included seem almost unbelievably inconsequential. ...read

====== 2313 ========

CRAIG BROWN ON THE GUSHING LETTERS BRITAIN'S FAVOURITE LUVVIES

Dramatic Exchanges: The Lives & Letters Of The National Theatre

Edited by Daniel Rosenthal

Profile Books £25

Rating:

Golly gosh, the gush! ‘Dearest Johnnie, You are an angel, thank you infinitely much, dear one, for your kindness, your generosity and your trouble,’ begins a letter to John Gielgud from ‘your devoted and grateful Larry’ (Olivier) in 1964.

From then on it’s a non-stop Festival of Gush. ‘I’m delighted to be doing the play. I feel like a young chap in love for the first time…’ writes Olivier to the usually rather steely Arthur Miller, who, infected by such bonhomie, replies: ‘You delighted? Not half as much as I am…’

‘Your production of the Oedipus… is one of the greatest creations in the history of European Theatre,’ writes an art gallery curator to the director Peter Brook in 1968. ‘You are not just a terrific director, but more importantly a lovely man,’ writes James Corden to Nicholas Hytner in 2004.

One letter featured in Dramatic Exchanges reveals that Frankie Howerd declined Lord Olivier’s invitation to act in a Peter Nichols play, The National Health

Oddly enough, Daniel Rosenthal, the editor of these letters from and about the National Theatre, talks of ‘the raw, unmediated candour of private letters’, and argues that they are more revealing than biographies or memoirs.

Yet there have been some remarkably sharp theatrical memoirs published recently, not least Stage Blood by the director Michael Blakemore, who fell out with Peter Hall in 1976, and resigned. In Stage Blood, Blakemore reprints a lengthy statement he read out to the associates of the National Theatre, including the overall director Peter Hall, in which he listed his complaints against Hall. These included the accusation that Hall was able to line his own pockets by using the state-subsidised National Theatre as a testing ground for new productions, then transferring them too speedily to the West End, where he could make a small fortune in personal royalties. ‘The policy is a fruit machine paying out double money to one or two lucky winners,’ Blakemore concluded.

In his memoir, Blakemore wittily describes the look on his fellow associates’ faces as he listed these accusations. ‘The group were looking at me as they might a man standing high up on a window ledge on the point of jumping. (How awful! But at the same time how interesting!)’

A couple of pages are given over to this debacle in Dramatic Exchanges, but Blakemore’s statement is simply described in italics as an ‘inflammatory’ challenge to Hall’s leadership, with no mention of the basis of that challenge, ie, that Hall was feathering his own nest at the expense of the organisation he was meant to be running. And though a letter from Blakemore to Hall is included, it has a long paragraph removed, and replaced with three dots. If you look up the unedited letter in Stage Blood, you see that the paragraph refers to the powers that be at the National having taken their revenge by stopping all Blakemore’s salary payments.

‘Dearest Johnnie, You are an angel, thank you infinitely much, dear one, for your kindness, your generosity and your trouble,’ begins a letter to John Gielgud from ‘your devoted and grateful Larry’ (Olivier) in 1964. Laurence Olivier is pictured

This all strikes me as a lot more raw, unmediated and candid than most of the missives included in this authorised selection of National Theatre letters, so many of which are nothing more than thank-you notes, or fan letters, or a bit of both. Is there an element of whitewash to Rosenthal’s selection? This year also saw the publication of a book of letters by the iconoclastic theatrical agent Peggy Ramsay. In one, she complains that Peter Hall ‘isn’t human, and one glimpses the bodies of his victims, whom he has destroyed on his climb to power’. In another, she talks of his ‘maniacal will to power, which is almost destroying him’. Neither is included in Dramatic Exchanges.

Equally, Nicholas Hytner’s recent memoir contained many more interesting revelations than are included in the chapter in this book devoted to his successful regime. Who can forget, for instance, Harold Pinter screaming ‘You’re a f***ing liar, and you’re a f***ing s***’ at him in a hushed restaurant? Or Hytner’s verdict that the National Theatre’s 2011 play Greenland was ‘a reconstituted turkey’? As it is, Greenland doesn’t rate a mention in Dramatic Exchanges.

The editor says that he read 12,000 letters before picking 800. Without seeing the missing 11,200, it is hard to know how well he has done his job, but some of those included seem almost unbelievably inconsequential.

‘Dear Nick and David,’ writes Helen Mirren to Nick Hytner and David Hare on a postcard in 2004. ‘I loved Stuff Happens – thank you for your brilliant work – it was so beautifully realised. My heart sank at the beginning – all those men in grey suits. No sets! No costumes! – never mind – it’s good for me – but you and David and the actors made an amazing thing – watchable, funny, informative and absolutely dramatic. VERY VERY Brilliant – all love, Helen.’

Why include that one? I suppose it’s because it’s from Helen Mirren, who is all the rage at the moment. Strangely, there are no letters included from the famous, and famously belligerent, Pinter. If this is because of copyright problems, the editor does not say. Instead, he includes a number of gushing letters from other people to Pinter, including one from his future mother-in-law, Lady Longford, cooing over his play Betrayal – ‘I have reread it twice, each time with more enjoyment & understanding’ – and adding: ‘A million thanks for sending us the tickets.’

Both Alan Bennett and Arthur Miller are among the many playwrights whose letters are featured in the book

On the other hand, roughly a quarter of the letters contain something revealing or interesting or, at the very least, incendiary. Some of the most tantalising concern projects that never got off the ground: Ronnie Barker is unavailable to play Falstaff; Paul McCartney turns down the chance to write music for As You Like It; Frankie Howerd declines Lord Olivier’s invitation to act in a Peter Nichols play, The National Health.

Thank heaven for the awkward squad, consisting largely of distressed playwrights who are prepared to make themselves unpopular. The never knowingly understated John Osborne complains to Robert Stephens in 1970 that the National Theatre ‘is full of schoolgirlish commercialism, over-weening ambition, one-shot competitiveness (with its hangers-on and pushers), but, above all, ultimate and complete timidity as well as third-rate politicking and treachery’.

Inevitably, critics come in for several duffings-up, not least from Osborne’s mother Nellie, who writes a telegram to her son in 1966, saying: ‘MY DEAR SON HOW DARE THESE CRITICS PULL TO PIECES SUCH FINE WORK, FOR TEN YEARS THEY HAVE INSULTED YOUR ART IN THE THEATRE, TO ME THEY JUST SMELL, I HATE THEM…’ It so happens that years later, long after her death, Osborne rewarded Nellie’s loyalty by describing her as, among other things, a ‘grabbing, uncaring crone’. But you wouldn’t get this from Dramatic Exchanges, which lacks much background information beyond the nuts and bolts of each production.

Thankfully, the saintly Michael Frayn takes a more forgiving line towards critics. ‘A good bucket of cold water thrown over one is very reviving,’ he says, having received terrible reviews for a play. ‘It will help to make me a spry pensioner.’

‘Dear Nick and David,’ writes Helen Mirren to Nick Hytner and David Hare on a postcard in 2004. ‘I loved Stuff Happens – thank you for your brilliant work...' Why include that one? I suppose it’s because it’s from Helen Mirren, who is all the rage at the moment

Perhaps unsurprisingly, most of the best letters come from playwrights, rather than from actors or directors (there are, incidentally, no letters from stage managers or costume designers or lighting men). Judging by this volume, there is a severe divide in playwrights between the unassuming and the punchy. ‘I found your letter one of the most unfair, discourteous and belligerent I have ever received,’ writes Peter Hall to the great Simon Gray. Alas, there are no letters at all from the playwright Arnold Wesker, who once fell out with a director so badly that he started picketing his own play.

Alan Bennett scores the highest marks for self-deprecation. ‘Don’t worry if you think it’s pretty hopeless,’ he writes to Nicholas Hytner, enclosing The History Boys, ‘and no pressure to read it straightaway.’ Five years later, he sends him The Habit Of Art, with the note: ‘Don’t worry if it doesn’t seem even promising.’ To Peter Hall he confesses that he has started a dozen plays in three years, ‘all of which have ground to a halt about 20 minutes in’. When he hears that The Madness Of George III is playing to 99 per cent capacity, he confesses: ‘Typically, I started worrying about the other one per cent.’

====== 2314 ========

OLLY SMITH EVENT FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

For the ultimate in beefy reds, Sir Ian ‘Beefy’ Botham has recently launched his own range of wines from Australia, all packed with the hearty style of the man himself. But Aussie reds aside, what other wines deliver big bold brilliance? Amarone from Italy might be your first pick – often with alcohol levels above 15% with flavours so dark and massive they could probably trigger a solar eclipse. In fact it can be overwhelming for some people thanks to partial air-drying of the grapes, which concentrates Amarone’s flavour. ...read

====== 2315 ========

OLLY SMITH RECOMMENDS SOME AFFORDABLE WAYS TO DRINK LIKE A CHEF

When it comes to wine, chefs’ tastes are as demanding as their standards – and that sometimes means their wine choices often make my wallet wince. Thankfully I’ve come up with some short cuts so you don’t blow the budget when sipping in their footsteps. But what exactly do these gourmet gurus love to sip?

Matt Tebbutt, who I often appear with on BBC1’s Saturday Kitchen, has a superb palate and loves a glass of decent Bordeaux. Top Bordeaux reds can stretch to hundreds of pounds a bottle but I’ve found an example this week that’s right up there for a comparatively reasonable £15.99.

Another French wine fan is Candice Brown of Bake Off fame – the Burgundian red and white she served at her recent wedding that I attended in France were both absolutely magnificent. For a glimpse of similar vino, own-label wines such as my Burgundy pick from Waitrose this week are capable of surprising.

Beyond France, restaurant legend Russell Norman recently inspired me to take a trip to Venice in search of his pal Luca Di Vita at Alle Testiere. Specialising in Italian wine with ‘respect for nature, character and craftsmanship’ the wine list at Alle Testiere is a goldmine of gems with plenty of fascinating hand-made beauties – try the Occhipinti Terre Siciliane SP 68 2017 for its flourishing aromatics. And if Italian tomato-themed dishes are on your menu this week, grab my recommendation from Morrisons for a bargain.

On British shores, perhaps the greatest wine list in London right now is Tomos Parry’s Brat in Shoreditch, offering classics to indulge in such as the underrated world of sherry (check out my sweet PX pick) as well as wines from off the beaten track such as Greece. In particular, Thymiopoulos Xinomavro Jeunes Vignes 2016 from Greece at Brat is a beguiling red that feels light in body with heavyweight flavours, as though Pinot Noir took off backpacking for a year and went a bit feral.

For a pristine Greek white, try my wine of the week - for under a tenner it’ll send your tastebuds over the Moon.

====== 2316 ========

ROB WAUGH EVENT FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

The Ember ‘smart mug’ keeps your tea at exactly the right temperature, with alerts on your phone telling you when it has cooled down enough to drink. It also offers tips on whether your coffee consumption is affecting your heart rate or your sleep. It’s £80, which is frankly bonkers. But being able to set the exact temperature of your drink is oddly satisfying, and I’m enough of a geek to get a genuine thrill when I receive an alert saying my coffee has reached the perfect temperature. I should probably get out more ...read

====== 2317 ========

ROB WAUGH LOVES THE KINDLE PAPERWHITE'S DISCREETLY BACK-LIT SCREEN

Kindle Paperwhite

£120

Friends often like to tell me how they prefer the feel of a paper-and-ink book to the soulless efficiency of an ebook reader – but I just look at them and think: ‘You can get books for a pound on this, what are you talking about?’

Obviously, in order to get books for a pound you have to read terrible drivel (or read only the first books of trilogies, which tend to be discounted to get you hooked). But I’m Scottish, so this sort of stinginess comes naturally to me.

For the past couple of years, the new Kindle devices have been ultra-slim, alarmingly expensive devices, built to be read ostentatiously while relaxing beside hotel pools.

The new 'Paperwhite' is a mid-range reading machine that offers the features of the posh ones (it’s waterproof, and you can listen to audio books on it)

I always thought this was slightly odd, given that I use my Kindle to conceal the fact that I’m reading absolute tripe, not to show off.

This year’s new Kindle is a much more down-to-earth device: a mid-range reading machine that offers the features of the posh ones (it’s waterproof, and you can listen to audio books on it).

RELATED ARTICLES Previous

1

Next Drink Food Share this article Share

It’s not ultra-slim but it sits very comfortably in a coat pocket, and the ‘Paperwhite’ screen is discreetly backlit for low-light reading without searing your eyeballs.

The audio book feature is now genuinely great, as some publishers offer a discounted audio book if you buy the ebook, and you can flip between the two as you read.

The cheapo, £60 Kindle is perfectly good, of course, but this model adds a touch of class – and by stealing the best features of the pricey ones, it still feels like a bargain.

====== 2318 ========

TOM PARKER BOWLES EVENT FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

Not another bloody gastropub. Seriously, I’ve had enough. Those laughable attempts at the so-called exotic, endlessly sallow, sorry approximations of some of the world’s greatest cuisines. Of course, there are exceptions, thank the Lord. Places like The Bell at Langford, with its stone floor and an excess of old wood, and the sort of bustling Saturday night hubbub that is born, not made. The place is packed, yet comfortable rather than cramped. Lights are low, but not myopically dim, and charming staff pick their way through the merry throng ...read

====== 2319 ========

TOM PARKER BOWLES: KERRIDGE'S BAR & GRILL IS A LAVISH TREAT

Kerridge’s Bar & Grill

Corinthia Hotel, Whitehall Place, London SW1

Rating:

It started with a pie. But this was no commonplace creation, no run-of-the-mill mediocrity, rather the very pinnacle of the pie-maker’s art, a great, burnished beauty filled with peppery pork and lashings of jelly, all wrapped up in golden, glorious, lard-infused pastry. I was co-presenting a show called Market Kitchen, about a decade back, and said pie had just been cooked by a young chef called Tom Kerridge.

He was a big fella then, before he lost all that weight. But those vast hands belied the most delicate and elegant of touches. Damn it, the man could cook – a dazzlingly talented chef with French soul and English heart. At The Hand And Flowers, his two-Michelin-starred pub, his dishes seemed simple but actually involved a whole lot of serious technique. And at Kerridge’s Bar and Grill at the Corinthia, it’s more of the same. Thank God.

Kerridge’s Bar & Grill has soaring ceilings, ox-blood leather banquettes, rich green walls and polished wooden floors

OK, so the place is more club deluxe than pub, a huge and handsome space with soaring ceilings, ox-blood leather banquettes, rich green walls and polished wooden floors. It’s up there with The Wolseley as one of London’s knockout dining rooms. Money has not just been spent but lavished. And the smell of cash lingers alongside the scent of lamb grilling on the huge open rotisserie. There in the ubiquitous meat-ageing cabinet, ribs of beef are displayed like Amsterdam working girls, and there’s a glittering bar, and staff who do not so much walk as glide. Service is predictably immaculate.

I first went for lunch a few weeks back, and started with the most delicate of cheese-and-onion tarts, which very much amused the bouche, the filling light but packing real punch, the pastry as fragile as a drunken promise. There’s ‘Claude’s mushroom risotto with Daniel’s crispy egg’, the Claude being Bosi of Bibendum, the Daniel, Clifford of Midsummer House. No rice, though, rather finely chopped fungi and oozing egg, and an astounding depth of forest-floor allure. Kerridge’s technique may be fancy but his flavours always sing. He uses brill for his fish and chips, which may seem a little excessive. Like salting the pasta water with caviar. And at just a whisper under £35, they’re not exactly given away. But the fish is as good as I’ve eaten anywhere, the pearlescent fish wearing its batter like a silk slip. Pub grub with celestial charm.

I come back for dinner, when the lights are low, and eat a crab vol-au-vent. Retro, maybe, but there’s no ironic wink here. Paper-thin slices of apple top the case, and there seems to be a whole crab, fresh picked and still bearing that fleeting scent of the sea, stuffed into the fantastic flaky pastry. It’s a dish of astonishing lightness. Until you taste that sauce, the sort of brawling, bosky bisque that seems more at home in some quayside dive rather than the gilded splendour of a five-star Westminster hotel. It’s a classic Kerridge dish, where elegance and power stroll merrily hand in hand.

Claude’s mushroom risotto with Daniel’s crispy egg. The Claude being Bosi of Bibendum, the Daniel, Clifford of Midsummer House

Pig’s cheek pie is the size and shape of a cricket ball, with a tiny snout on top. It sits somewhere between a hot pork pie and pithivier, although the pastry is shortcrust rather than puff. The filling is more farce then loose meat, but the flavours are big and bold. Silken puréed potatoes, lustily dosed with cream, come studded with crumbs of crisp black pudding. Fat, dairy, blood and salt. Oh yeah. No blood in the brown butter tart, but all the others, present and correct. The very definition of lush.

As you’ve probably gathered, this is hardly a fasting spa. Fat, as we all know, is flavour, and Kerridge and his immaculate kitchen staff are masters of that particular art. But even I couldn’t eat here every day. It’s a treat, a blowout, a new London dining room that seems as if it’s been around for ever. In short, a class act. Lavish, but lavishly lovely too.

About £50 per head

====== 2320 ========

PIERS MORGAN EVENT FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

Susanna tipped me the wink that she was in a new relationship a few weeks ago, but I asked her not to tell me the name of her boyfriend so she wouldn’t suspect me if it leaked to the press. As for her choice of partner, I note that like me, Steve is a 53-year-old divorcee with children, and a wealthy, successful, handsome man who is passionate about a London football team ...read

====== 2321 ========

CHRISTIAN MARCLAY - THE CLOCK REVIEW: FILM-SPOTTING AND GIDDY SIMULTANEITY

Christian Marclay: The Clock

Tate Modern, London Until Jan 20

Rating:

Ten years ago the Swiss-American artist assembled a vast anthology of extracts from film and TV, mostly a few seconds long. The resulting film, with some 10,000 extracts, runs for 24 hours. The thing that all the extracts have in common is a reference to the time – a glimpsed clock, a watch, a complaint that it’s already quarter to four.

He arranged them in order, and the film runs in synchrony with the real time.

The result is a giddy simultaneity; the clock face in an excerpt from Little Miss Sunshine says it’s five past three, and it’s as correct as the watch on your wrist.

There is the joy of seeing the film’s conventions turned inside out, the grandfather clock in the background suddenly turning into the hero of the day-long narrative we all live within

The pleasures of Marclay’s work are many, and I went in intending to stay half an hour before remaining for three. Most of the films are American, with a few British, some French, an occasional Japanese.

If you watched them all, they would probably share some conventions. So the minutes before each hour are a frantic rising of tension, as the bomb ticks down or the deadline descends. Quarter-past is a regular marker of existential boredom; there is a lot of mooning into space.

There is the joy of spotting the film – I don’t think anyone will be able to do them all.

Marclay and his team were quite indifferent to the artistic quality of the original, and obscure Seventies tripe rubs up against Satyajit Ray’s Charulata, the weird Jack Nicholson musical On A Clear Day You Can See Forever, James Bond outings and Jean-Paul Belmondo on a train in the Sixties.

And there is the joy of seeing the film’s conventions turned inside out, the grandfather clock in the background suddenly turning into the hero of the day-long narrative we all live within.

This is The Clock’s 30th outing worldwide in eight years and its third in London. It’s a complete joy, not to be missed.

Artes Mundi 8

National Museum, Cardiff Until Feb 24

Rating:

Anna Boghiguian: A Meteor Fell From The Sky

Its organisers have long tried to bill Artes Mundi as an alternative to the Turner Prize. Now in its eighth edition, it includes work in an array of media.

Nigeria’s Otobong Nkanga, for example, has created a tapestry depicting human figures with metal rails for body parts.

Artes Mundi is an unashamedly political prize, with the five exhibited artists selected on grounds of their ‘exploring the biggest issues facing our world’.

The winner of the £40,000 prize will be announced on January 24, but it’s hard to imagine too many people on tenterhooks about the outcome: this show’s offerings rather blend into one.

At least the Turner Prize tends to elicit a strong response.

Alastair Smart

====== 2322 ========

CHRIS EVANS EVENT FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

It’s dull. Like, really dull. It’s a GTi for crying out loud, and, what is more, a 2018 GTi. It’s just about OK from the front, but there endeth any further allure. What a waste. It has the odd clean line or two, but so does an ironing board. It’s also too high at the back, like the rear suspension is petrified of what the design team was about do next. Inside is a different story, however. The signature tartan Golf GTi seats are present and correct, both in the front and rear, smaller but perfectly formed and supportive. ...read

====== 2323 ========

GOES LIKE A ROCKET! (JUST A SHAME THE LOOKS DON’T THRILL)

VW Polo GTi

(to look at)

Rating:

(for everything else)

Rating:

My kids are already thinking about Christmas. It’s the only way they can cope with the prospect of yet another year at school, from the mandatory sentence of 14 years that has been dished out to them. They have my deepest sympathy. School either starts too soon or goes on for far too long, take your pick. It only takes half that time to become a rocket scientist or a brain surgeon – what the heck’s that about?

It’s also very much Christmas in my business, which is why, between now and December, all sorts of characters are clamouring to get on the type of radio show I do, to flog their wares. Not that this is at all a bad thing: it’s actually a very good thing, providing a glut of juicy content and colourful contributors.

Like Simon Reeve this week, ‘that nice empathetic travel reporter’, as many people see him. Or how about, instead, the former 20-something who wrote the only book about super-terrorism and Osama bin Laden pre-9/11, called The New Jackals? It went on to become a New York Times bestseller. I know this because I read about it in his latest book, Step By Step, Reeve’s autobiography. It’s fantastic.

The VW Polo GTi. Firing up the engine gives rise to an unexpectedly raspy and rather exciting exhaust noise from the exact same power plant as the one in the new Golf GTi

Take That are popping in next Friday to promote their 30th anniversary tour and Greatest Hits album, Rod Stewart is due to perform live in the studio, as are Seasick Steve and Tom Odell. Movie-wise, Michael Caine’s new pic, The King Of Thieves, is out this weekend and I’m particularly looking forward to the Freddie Mercury biopic, Bohemian Rhapsody, which is out on October 24.

What’s not to like about any of that? But here’s the thing: if you fancy treating yourself to a new car for Crimbo, the end of this month is deal weekend. The end of the third quarter, when all the sales guys will be at their most ‘accommodating’ in the push to hit their pre-Xmas targets, thus bagging their much-deserved Christmas spends.

In which case, new Polo GTi anyone? Sure, it’s not the legend that is the Golf GTi, nor the outgoing Beetle, for which the death knell sadly chimes, but it is almost £10k cheaper than a Golf and miles more fun to drive than a Bug.

First off, though, let’s get the downside out of the way.

Dear VW, why oh why didn’t you make your latest GTi incarnation more exciting to look at?

It’s dull. Like, really dull. It’s a GTi for crying out loud, and, what is more, a 2018 GTi. It’s just about OK from the front, but there endeth any further allure.

What a waste. It has the odd clean line or two, but so does an ironing board. It’s also too high at the back, like the rear suspension is petrified of what the design team was about do next.

Inside is a different story, however. The signature tartan Golf GTi seats are present and correct, both in the front and rear, smaller but perfectly formed and supportive.

From the pilot’s point of view, the driving position is excellent and the interior vista is spiced up with bare metal inserts (colour-matched to the exterior) on the main dash, central console and around the door-pulls.

The main info screen works well and the instruments are clear, so all is good. My only gripe is the lack of a central armrest – with plenty of room in between the front seats, the space is crying out for one.

TECH SPEC Price £23,155 Engine 2.0-litre petrol Gearbox Six-speed DSG Power 200hp 0-60mph 6.7 seconds Top speed 147mph First year road tax £205 Fuel economy 47.9mpg

Now to the best bit: firing up the engine gives rise to an unexpectedly raspy and rather exciting exhaust noise from the exact same power plant as the one in the new Golf GTi (albeit not quite as tweaked, fizzing and hot). Regardless, this causes one to suspect that more fun may be on offer here than it first appeared.

Which turns out to be precisely the case. This may not be the quickest supermini hot hatch on the market today, with 200hp and a 0-60mph time of 6.7 seconds, but I can’t imagine any of its main rivals ‘feel’ significantly quicker without completely ragging the granny out of them.

Within seconds I was having a whale of a time, flicking from one driving mode to the next while alternating between manual paddle-shift and auto transmission to see which combination produced the best pops, bangs and gurgles.

The six-speed DSG gearbox is not exactly lightning-quick up and down the cogs but by no means is it laggy or jumpy either. ‘This is amazing, Dad, for a Polo!’ squealed number one son. I couldn’t disagree. Purists will, of course, lament the lack of a third pedal and an old-fashioned manual set-up, but worry not, it’s on the way, apparently.

Up front there could be twitchiness in the form of torque steer, as we are talking a considerable amount of oomph being channelled through the front wheels only. But no, not a bit of it. As always, the gurus at VW seem to have totally sussed the challenges of front-wheel drive. Try as one might to agitate and agonise proceedings, the nose remains firmly planted at all times.

It’s just about OK from the front, but there endeth any further allure. What a waste

General handling is also extremely stable, instilling confidence from the off and leading to limitless smiles out on the road.

The traction controls can be deselected but frankly there’s little point with a GTi pocket-rocket that’s set up as well as this. The brakes are bigger than ever before, as is the boot, two further reasons to contemplate a note to Santa.

But it’s the value for money this whole package represents that is the real carrot: prices start at £21.5k for this five-door and mine came in at a touch over £23k including plenty of options. That’s mightily impressive.

It’s just a real bummer that good looks aren’t part of that, especially when you cast your eye over the current crop of handsome Golfs, Ups and Sciroccos.

Five stars for everything else then, but only three (and that’s being generous) for the torso. An aesthetic opportunity missed. Alas.

====== 2324 ========

KING LEAR IN CHICHESTER: IAN MCKELLEN REIGNS SUPREME

King Lear

Minerva Theatre, Chichester Until Oct 28 3hrs 20mins

Rating:

It’s often said that by the time you are old enough to play Shakespeare’s King Lear, you’re past it. Recently, Sir Antony Sher needed a cart to carry the body of his beloved daughter Cordelia. Not Sir Ian McKellen.

A decade ago he was magnificent in Sir Trevor Nunn’s gorgeously extravagant if over-embellished Royal Shakespeare Company production. Now aged 78, he’s an older if no wiser Lear in Jonathan Munby’s clear, thoughtful, terrifically well-paced revival. Hair thinner and greyer, he’s plumper but still every inch the king, and then some.

His physical strength – essential in this role – seems undiminished as he hauls the body of Cordelia on his back. But what makes this production special is the intimate scale of the space, which allows McKellen’s Lear to be more conversational, nuanced, profoundly felt and utterly compelling.

It’s often said that by the time you are old enough to play Shakespeare’s King Lear, you’re past it. Not Sir Ian McKellen (above, left)

Moreover, with his clothes on – much was made of him dropping his trousers in Nunn’s storm scene – he movingly portrays the metaphorical stripping down of a man who had believed he was superhuman and now, oh so agonisingly, discovers his mortality and realises he is just a ‘poor bare forked animal’. In a very moving moment he puts his own coat around the shoulders of the trembling, naked wretch, Edgar.

The court is deftly conjured by a circular red carpet, on to which Lear marches in military dress, his medals flashing. His invitation to his daughters to bid for their portion of his kingdom when he announces his retirement is staged like a vulgar after-dinner game, with each on display behind a microphone as he chops up a map of Britain with scissors. One can see why his daughters are less than thrilled to host his household of hooray-Henry knights and squires, all singing drinking songs and leaving dirty footprints everywhere.

Kirsty Bushell’s Regan (above with Danny Webb) gets stuck on one note, though her whoop of sexual ecstasy at the brutal blinding of Gloucester suggests that she finds violence a turn-on

While the jauntiness of Phil Daniels’s banjo-playing Fool with Eric Morecambe specs stifles some of the pathos of the part, it highlights his bitter irony

Following the storm, the circle is a blanched white, the stage bare but for a lone tree, a Beckettian nod to the nihilism that has taken over. Indeed, most of Munby’s ideas make perfect sense, such as the excellent Sinéad Cusack playing Lear’s loyal Kent as a countess instead of a count (why not?). And while the jauntiness of Phil Daniels’s banjo-playing Fool with Eric Morecambe specs stifles some of the pathos of the part, it highlights his bitter irony.

Kirsty Bushell’s raunchy Regan gets stuck on one note, though her whoop of sexual ecstasy at the brutal blinding of Gloucester (in an abattoir, using a meat hook) horribly suggests that she finds violence a huge turn-on. Tamara Lawrance’s Cordelia struggles to look anything but tough in army camouflage kit. And if there’s no obvious reason why Edmund decides to bump off the Fool, it underlines his casual cruelty.

Dervla Kirwan’s sometimes glowing, sometimes glacial, always grand Goneril makes her evil more interesting than her sister Regan’s, and the decency and personal integrity of Dominic Mafham’s Duke of Albany shines with a revelatory light in this dark world.

Impressive.



Jane Eyre

Lyttelton, National Theatre, London Until Oct 21, 3hrs

Rating:

Sally Cookson’s production of Jane Eyre first came to the National Theatre two years ago, and its second run in London proves it is still as inventive as ever – although it offers a fraction less fizz than the fiery first stint.

This is largely down to a cast change: Tim Delap doesn’t explode in the role of Rochester quite like his predecessor, and Nadia Clifford is a more pensive, less passionate Jane. The latter isn’t necessarily a bad thing, though, emphasizing as it does Jane’s cleverness, and her consequent barely suppressed frustration with the repetition of life as a governess.

Elsewhere, there’s much still to love. Despite the cast playing many roles, they offer vivid portrayals of Charlotte Brontë’s characters. Hannah Bristow switches seamlessly from a sickly-but-serene Helen Burns to Rochester’s boisterous francophone daughter Adele. Paul Mundell wins the hearts of the audience with his tail-thumping stint as Pilot the dog.

In the sparse set, simple props make a powerful impact. The candles lighting Thornfield Hall hint both at the flames that will eventually engulf the building, and at the warmth of human connection Jane will discover there with Rochester.

Bertha Mason, Rochester's first wife, haunts the stage from the off, echoing the interpretation that reads Brontë’s madwoman in the attic as Jane’s devilish double. When she sings Noel Coward’s Mad About The Boy (a luscious rendition by Melanie Marshall) it is clear she is referring to Jane’s inner emotional turmoil as much as her own relationship with her husband.

An innovative and richly musical production that, despite flagging slightly on the energy front, will set your imagination ablaze.

Gwendolyn Smith

Labour Of Love

Noel Coward Theatre, London Until Dec 2 2hrs 50mins

Rating:

With James Graham’s super-soaraway hit Ink, about the rise of The Sun, playing to full houses down the street from the theatre where his new play has just opened, this young playwright’s star couldn’t be higher.

But Labour Of Love, while capturing a world with great success, is not in the same satirical class as the indelible Ink.

Set in the tatty constituency office of Yorkshire-born, Oxford-educated David Lyons (Martin Freeman), Labour MP for a post-industrial Nottinghamshire seat, it charts the slow death of a Labour Party stronghold in the late Eighties, the ascent and fall of Blairism and the love affair between an MP and his prickly agent.

Set in the tatty constituency office of Yorkshire-born, Oxford-educated David Lyons (Martin Freeman), it charts the slow death of a Labour Party stronghold in the late Eighties

The superb Tamsin Greig snaps and crackles to perfection as Jean – his idealistic agent – who knows, as usual, more than he does

It opens on Election night 2017, with the result of a recount expected at any minute. The superb Tamsin Greig snaps and crackles to perfection as Jean – his idealistic agent – who knows, as usual, more than he does. From there the action goes back to 1990, when Lyons won a by-election, and every subsequent change of government is richly illustrated with video footage.

There are good jokes aplenty: ‘Do you know why we chose a rose for Labour?’ ‘Because it looks pretty but it’s full of pricks?’ But too many are, well, laborious, such as the ancient one about Peter Mandelson’s ’tache: ‘What’s he hiding?’ ‘His top lip?’

Greig’s Jean is the only character with real depth and texture. A lightweight Freeman fails to suggest the gravitas of a man who once held a Cabinet post. Lyons’s posh lawyer wife Elizabeth (Rachael Stirling), wearing jodhpurs and stilettos for a march against job losses, is as crassly implausible as the Chinese businessman interested in building a new factory.

Not at all a labour in vain – given a trim, it could become a much safer seat in the West End.

Dido, Queen Of Carthage

Swan Theatre, Stratford-upon-Avon Until Oct 28, 2hrs 50mins

Rating:

Christopher Marlowe’s first play – rarely staged – tells of Aeneas, a refugee from burning Troy. He finds himself washed up on the shores of North Africa, where Dido, Queen of Carthage, falls for him, thanks to Cupid, a cheery little chap with a hypodermic.

Aeneas is torn by his destiny in Italy and his lust for Dido. Staged on black sand, this often comic play of gods and mortals is shot through with vistas of Marlowe’s genius. Sandy Grierson’s quivering Scots voice does full justice to Aeneas’s harrowing speech about the Trojan slaughter. Chipo Chung, as Dido, gives a right royal performance as the heartbroken queen who throws herself on a burning pyre.

Chipo Chung, as Dido, gives a right royal performance as the heartbroken queen who throws herself on a burning pyre

Shakespeare-lovers will marvel at how much of this play he pinched, with its tempests, disguises and love potions. And in Dido you find the sultry prototype for Cleopatra. With haunting music, this Elizabethan rarity is a real revelation.

Less successful from the Royal Shakespeare Company is the last play in its ‘Rome’ season, Coriolanus (Royal Shakespeare Theatre, Stratford-upon-Avon, until Saturday) ★★. Having single-handedly crushed the Volsci, the mighty warrior Coriolanus should be a hero. But his arrogant contempt for the voters gets him banished. So he swaps sides and turns on Rome.

Sope Dirisu’s fearsome Coriolanus is dripping in gore. But while he’s terrific to look at, his verse-speaking is drab, a major setback in such a huge part. His scheming rival, Aufidius, is well played by James Corrigan. But the two tribunes – substantial parts – have been gender-reassigned as women, wrongly diluting the play’s strident machismo.

This update has occasional flashes of emotion but does little to cast new light on this timely, austere masterpiece about power and the people.

Robert Gore-Langton

For Love Or Money

West Yorkshire Playhouse, Leeds On tour until December 2 2hrs

Rating:

This, sadly, is Barrie Rutter’s last touring show for Northern Broadsides, the Halifax-based company he founded 25 years ago. A satire about greed, lust and money, it’s based on a 300-year-old French satire called Turcaret, by Alain-René Lesage. Blake Morrison has devised a ribald script relocated to the Twenties and chock-full of lost Yorkshire-isms (tea is ‘chatter-watter’).

Rutter plays a corrupt provincial bank manager, Algy, who’s courting a broke widow (Sarah-Jane Potts). She is milking him for jewels and cheques.

There’s a spivvy doctor’s son who’s using her to get at the manager’s money, and a scheming servant who’s ‘out for himsen’. Algy’s fake-French wife (Sarah Parks, glorious) arrives late in the day to queer the pitch further.

It’s funny and also rather touching to watch Rutter, surrounded by his company, saying farewell in a really good comic part, delivered with his own brand of ever-audible gusto.

Robert Gore-Langton

northern-broadsides.co.uk

====== 2325 ========

EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Chancellor Philip Hammond was informed two days before the general election that Mrs May’s then chief of staff, Nick Timothy (left), had decreed that he would be out on his ear on June 9. Hammond’s still in his job and a contender if there’s a No 10 vacancy. Out-of-a-job Timothy was reduced to writing a sorry-for-himself ‘diary’ in The Spectator last week. In preparation for the dressed-down state opening of Parliament tomorrow, Prince Philip – Colonel of the Grenadier Guards – ditched his uniform for Trooping the Colour. Unlike his son Prince Edward, who managed just 12 weeks with the Royal Marines. He was dressed-up like a Christmas tree in the gaudy outfit of a colonel of the London Regiment. He looked even odder sitting next to his brother, Falklands veteran Prince Andrew, who never wears uniform for the Trooping. ...read

====== 2326 ========

SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Few memoirs of a showbusiness childhood have been as candid as those of Alexander Newley, son of Dame Joan Collins and the second of her five husbands, composer and actor Anthony Newley. Alexander recalled that his father ‘lived to screw’ — and found an ‘endless cattle call’ of naked young women willing to gratify his desires on the sun-kissed beaches of California. SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE can disclose, Newley, 53, a highly accomplished artist, is penning a second volume. But although the first, Unaccompanied Minor, covered just the first 14 years of his life, the follow-up will leap ahead to his mid-30s living in Los Angeles as a carefree bachelor. ...read

====== 2327 ========

ALEX BRUMMER FOR THE DAILY MAIL

With waxwork images of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle pensively looking on, the chief executive of Merlin Entertainments, Nick Varney, this week embraced the foreign exchange impact of a hard Brexit. At a time of vast overseas expansion, the owner of Madame Tussauds and operator of Legoland and other theme park franchises would benefit greatly from the translation back into pounds of foreign currency earnings, and stands to benefit if the UK attracted more overseas visitors. ...read

====== 2328 ========

STEPHEN GLOVER FOR THE DAILY MAIL

STEPHEN GLOVER: 'Theresa May already has enough problems on her hands with the Democratic Unionist Party and Tory Brexiteers proclaiming they will vote against her deal in the Commons next month'. Just when she least needed another set of anxieties, the Spanish government has tossed a potentially lethal grenade in her direction. It is threatening to scupper the Brexit agreement because it is unhappy with a section of the draft withdrawal agreement concerning Gibraltar. At the same time, its foreign minister, Josep Borrell, has let fly by suggesting that Brexit could split apart the United Kingdom. He claims to be ‘very much more worried’ about the unity of the UK than of Spain.' Pictured, Theresa May outside No 10 Downing Street. ...read

====== 2329 ========

RICHARD KAY FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Many a royal heart was in mouth as the pair, with Edward brandishing a hand saw, stepped on to the stage for the highlight of a riotous and joyful celebration at Buckingham Palace.Even Prince Philip, who makes only rare appearances at family events these days, was on hand to join the toasts led by the Queen for their eldest son. If hers was the warmest and wittiest of tributes – in which she labelled her son ‘a duchy original’ in reference to his organic food brand – it was Prince William who brought the house down with a tongue in cheek, if heavy-handed joke at his father’s expense. Father and son have not always enjoyed the easiest of relationships, but William showed he was a chip off the royal block with remarks that remained, just, inside the boundaries of propriety. His speech, complete with theatrical pauses, began with him saying: ‘Let me tell you all the things my father hates... red squirrels, the environment, traditional architecture.’ Warming to his theme, he listed the Prince of Wales’ subsidiary titles – titles he will one day inherit. ...read

====== 2330 ========

EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Chancellor Philip Hammond was informed two days before the general election that Mrs May’s then chief of staff, Nick Timothy (left), had decreed that he would be out on his ear on June 9. Hammond’s still in his job and a contender if there’s a No 10 vacancy. Out-of-a-job Timothy was reduced to writing a sorry-for-himself ‘diary’ in The Spectator last week. In preparation for the dressed-down state opening of Parliament tomorrow, Prince Philip – Colonel of the Grenadier Guards – ditched his uniform for Trooping the Colour. Unlike his son Prince Edward, who managed just 12 weeks with the Royal Marines. He was dressed-up like a Christmas tree in the gaudy outfit of a colonel of the London Regiment. He looked even odder sitting next to his brother, Falklands veteran Prince Andrew, who never wears uniform for the Trooping. ...read

====== 2331 ========

SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Few memoirs of a showbusiness childhood have been as candid as those of Alexander Newley, son of Dame Joan Collins and the second of her five husbands, composer and actor Anthony Newley. Alexander recalled that his father ‘lived to screw’ — and found an ‘endless cattle call’ of naked young women willing to gratify his desires on the sun-kissed beaches of California. SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE can disclose, Newley, 53, a highly accomplished artist, is penning a second volume. But although the first, Unaccompanied Minor, covered just the first 14 years of his life, the follow-up will leap ahead to his mid-30s living in Los Angeles as a carefree bachelor. ...read

====== 2332 ========

MAX HASTINGS FOR THE DAILY MAIL

MAX HASTINGS: 'Here is an amazing reflection of our 21st century lives. We receive daily dumper-trucks of information, on a scale unprecedented in history. We are bombarded with film, satellite images, Instagram shots, bulletins, news flashes about all manner of happenings worldwide, private and public. Yet instead of being the best-informed generation of all time, we become ever more baffled about what is true, and whom to trust.' ...read

====== 2333 ========

QUENTIN LETTS FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Last week Esther McVey was Secretary of State for Work and Pensions. Now, after a blazing Cabinet row with the May brigade, she was down on the Brexity backbenches. Down where they smoulder. During PMQs Miss McVey’s name may have been greeted with ‘oohs’ and hear-hears – the corrida hoping that she might spear the Prime Minister – but in the event she played it civil. ‘Can the Prime Minister assure the House today that the UK will be leaving the EU on March 29, 2019, come what may?’ ...read

====== 2334 ========

RICHARD LITTLEJOHN FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Commuters and taxi drivers accused the police of indulging the demonstrators. Scotland Yard even put out a statement advising people not to travel by car or motorbike, adding that ‘attempting to drive through protesters in the road is dangerous and illegal’. So is blocking the road. It is a criminal offence, punishable by a £50 fine. Not nearly enough, if you ask me. More to the point, what the hell was all this disruption supposed to achieve? That’s the question LBC Radio’s Nick Ferrari put to one of the ringleaders, Roger Hallam, from an outfit calling itself Extinction Rebellion. When Hallam declined to offer any solutions, Ferrari cut him off. ...read

====== 2335 ========

PETER MCKAY FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Remember how we were told a month ago that it was vital for the RAF to bomb Syria? Since MPs voted 397 to 223 in favour, there have been only three strike missions, writes PETER MCKAY. ...read

====== 2336 ========

ANDREW PIERCE FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

Vince Cable has made a career out of U-turns so it's not surprising that the new Lib Dem leader should be accused of yet another screeching about-face. First, he moved from the Labour Party, then he was ridiculed for claiming the damage the Lib Dems suffered after their university tuition fees reversal was a 'price worth paying'. Now, he puts opposition to Brexit as his priority to rebuild his party's dwindling support — despite thinking very differently not long ago. ...read

====== 2337 ========

AMANDA PLATELL FOR THE DAILY MAIL

AMANDA PLATELL: It was nigh-on a perfect day for Princess Eugenie to marry her beau. However the grandiose scale of the event was all out of proportion. in contrast to Harry and Meghan’s summer wedding where views from the street were also at a premium, just one person camped out overnight. It seemed as if there were more police than well-wishers. And this despite Prince Andrew’s attempt to build interest by releasing unseen pictures of the couple as children in the run-up. ...read

====== 2338 ========

MARTIN SAMUEL - SPORT FOR THE DAILY MAIL

MARTIN SAMUEL - CHIEF SPORTS WRITER: They must have been feeling very generous at Paddy Power the day they let Daniel Sturridge's cousin place £10,000 on him going to Inter Milan. Try it. Try to get 10 grand on a footballer going anywhere in the January transfer window. Try to put it on Anthony Martial, say. The market exists. Martial to Inter Milan before February 1, 2019, is 3-1 with Paddy Power. And here is how much of £10,000 they want to lay — 83 quid. Anything more and the customer is advised to contact them directly and we all know the way that conversation goes. ...read

====== 2339 ========

TOM UTLEY FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Over the years, people have sometimes asked if I ever make things up about family life in my articles. I suppose I should be mortally offended at the suggestion that I may be a liar, but I won’t pretend I don’t understand why they ask, says TOM UTLEY. To some, it must arouse suspicion that week after week, I claim to have personal experiences that appear uncannily relevant to items in the news. When the papers are full of stories about rights for disabled people, for example, you’ll find me stating that my father was totally blind from the age of nine. When politicians discuss the plight of single mothers, up I’ll pop, saying one of my sisters never got round to marrying the father of her daughter (not least, because he was — and as far as I know still is — married to somebody else). ...read

====== 2340 ========

PETER HITCHENS FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

For far too long we in this country have thought we were richer, more powerful and, in general, better than we actually are. Now we find out the hard truth, exposed in all its gloomy detail by the EU talks (pictured is Theresa May after finalising a Brexit draft last week). Will we learn the necessary lesson, or will we prefer our precious illusions? I can just remember in the mists of childhood memory the 1956 Suez crisis, the feeling of panic and humiliation in the air. In that year, too many of us continued to imagine we were more important than we were. The Americans wasted no time in letting us know that we no longer ruled the waves, harassing our ships at sea and threatening us with bankruptcy on the world markets. ...read

====== 2341 ========

LATEST NEWS ON THE ROYALS AND THE BRITISH MONARCHY

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 2342 ========

ARTS, MUSIC, THEATRE - NEWS, PICTURES AND REVIEWS

Emma Hacks, 41 from Australia creates incredible images by painting nudes so that they blend into murals and wallpaper. For the first time she will paint a model live in front of an audience at the Rebecca Hossack Gallery in London. The artist is most famous for her body painting in the Gotye video, Somebody That I Used To Know that has racked up over 500 million hits on the video site Youtube. ...read

====== 2343 ========

DAILY MAIL ONLINE

'This is me if I wound up staying in the Bronx': Jennifer Lopez reveals new movie role mirrors the life she'd have had if she'd never become a superstar

====== 2344 ========

MOST POPULAR NEWS STORIES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 2345 ========

WILD LLAMAS APPEAR TO HUG AS THEY BATTLE FOR TERRITORY

This is the stunning moment a pair of vicunas appear to hug as they smash into one another in a violent turf war in the remote Atacama Desert.

The feisty animals, which are distant relatives of llamas, can be see scrapping and biting at one another as they engage in the heated duel.

Henrique Olsen de Assumpção, 24, who witnessed the startling events unfold on in the Atacama Desert in Northern Chile, said he was thrilled to be in the right place at the right time.

The photographer, from Porto Alegre, Brazil, said: 'The photos were taken as the sun was setting, The golden light matches that of the animals.

'I was going to the mountains by the car when I took a sandy path that leads to the Altiplanic lagoons to see the sunset from there.

'Suddenly, in the middle of the road, a vicuna crosses the sandy path and begins a territorial fight with another one.'

Photos taken by Henrique Olsen de Assumpção, 24, show the wild vicunas appearing to embrace while battling each other in the brutal turf war

The Vicunas could be seen biting one another and grappling as they faced off on the remote plains of the Atacama Desert national park

The photographer said he had travelled to the region to photograph the Vicunas because their coats match the colour of the landscape in the desert

The feisty animals are distant relatives of llamas but choose to live in flat open spaces like the Atacama rather than in the hills

====== 2346 ========

CLARIFICATIONS AND CORRECTIONS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 2347 ========

GRANDMA WHO INVITED WRONG TEEN TO THANKSGIVING HAS HIM OVER THIRD YEAR IN A ROW

A mistaken text has led to a beautiful Thanksgiving tradition that first captured the hearts of hundreds of thousands of Twitter users and has now lasted for years.

Wanda Dench first showed what it meant to have holiday spirit when she accidentally sent a Thanksgiving dinner invitation to Jamal Hinton in 2016, thinking he was her grandchild.

When the confusion was cleared up, Hinton sweetly asked if he could still reserve his spot at the dinner table, and the Arizona grandmother was true to her word.

Fast-forward three years and Dench and Hinton, now 19, are still breaking bread together on the holiday.

Wanda Dench and Jamal Hinton are continuing their sweet Thanksgiving tradition after she mistakenly sent him an invitation to dinner three years ago

Dench first showed what it meant to have holiday spirit when she accidentally sent a Thanksgiving dinner invitation to Hinton in 2016, thinking he was her grandchild

When the confusion was cleared up, Hinton sweetly asked if he could still reserve his spot at the dinner table, and the Arizona grandmother was true to her word

Fast-forward three years and Dench and Hinton, now 19, are still breaking bread together on the holiday. They are pictured here on Thursday

Hinton tweeted a tribute to their enduring tradition on Thursday, sharing three photos of him and Dench from their three Thanksgivings together.

'2016, 2017...2018,' he wrote in the simple caption.

Hinton then promised that he would be posting a video he filmed with Dench and her husband on Friday.

Dench has made Hinton her 'honorary grandson' since her legendary mix-up in 2016 and was more than happy to have him sit down at her Thanksgiving feast last year.

'It was really nice having everybody here,' Dench told the Arizona Republic in 2017.

'We got to laugh about last year and reminisce about how it all blew up on our phone and how I had to change my number. We had a laugh and a good time.'

Hinton posted a tribute to their enduring tradition on Thursday, sharing three photos of him and Dench from their three Thanksgivings together. They are pictured here in 2017

Hinton and Dench snapped their first ever Thanksgiving selfie together in 2016 (pictured)

'The world is becoming a better place than it used to be,' Hinton said at last year's Thanksgiving dinner.

'I'm loving it. I love that you don't have to know someone or know their background to be nice to them.'

A week after taking the internet by storm in 2016, Dench and Hinton sat down together for their first Thanksgiving feast.

Dench accidentally texted Hinton inviting him to her family's traditional holiday lunch in Mesa.

Dench has made Hinton her 'honorary grandson' since her legendary mix-up in 2016 (pictured) and was more than happy to have him sit down at her Thanksgiving feast last year

The 17-year-old student told the grandmother she had texted the wrong person, but then asked if he could 'still get a plate though?'

'Of course you can, that's what grandmas do, feed everyone' Dench quickly replied.

Hinton stayed true to his reservation, and Dench hugged him the minute he walked up to her house.

The 17-year-old was thrilled with the meal, and that he had accidentally become linked with such a nice person.

'I'd never seen her before and she welcomed me into her home,' Hinton told ABC15 in 2016.

But Thanksgiving isn't the only time Hinton sees Dench. In July he posted a selfie with her to show that they were having lunch together

'That shows me how great of a person she is, I'm thankful for people like that.'

Dench told the network she was glad to have played a part in spreading a positive message at the start of the holiday season.

Twitter users were delighted by Dench's sweetness, and Hinton's original post about the mix-up was shared more than 200,000 times.

But it was Hinton who was especially touched by Dench's kindness.

'With all the Donald Trump going on and all the racial comments going on, it's kind of good to see there's still good people out there,' he said at the time.

====== 2348 ========

BLACK FRIDAY FEVER ACROSS THE WORLD AS SHOPPERS SCRAMBLE FOR A BARGAIN

Black Friday fever has spread across the world with carnage breaking out in stores and shoppers clambering over each other to snap up deals.

Scuffles broke out amid chaotic scenes at one store in Sao Paulo, Brazil, where crowds of bargain hunters scrambled to get their hands on cheap televisions.

Footage purportedly taken this morning also shows frantic shoppers storming into shops in South Africa.

The clip was reportedly captured at 'game' in Baywest Mall, Port Elizabeth, as its metal shutters were opened for the day.

A separate video shot at an unknown location in South Africa shows an armed guard patrolling a mall as crowds descend on a shop. A man can be seen desperately trying to beat queues by scrambling over a metal barrier.

In Barakaldo, near Bilbao, Spain, long queues were pictured outside a department store advertising Black Friday deals.

Bargain hunters: There were chaotic scenes as shoppers made a frantic dash for discounted televisions at a department store in Sao Paulo, Brazil

Desperate shoppers in Sao Paulo, Brazil scrambled to get their hands on discounted televisions with scuffles breaking out as people grabbed boxes

Footage purportedly taken this morning shows shoppers storming into shops in South Africa on the hunt for discounted goods

Separate footage, believed to have been captured in South Africa this morning, showed people clambering over shopping trolleys to beat queues streaming into a 'game' store

A separate video believed to have been captured at an unknown location in South Africa shows an armed guard (left) patrolling a mall as crowds descend on a shop. A man can be seen desperately trying to beat queues by scrambling over a metal barrier (right)

Form an orderly queue: This was the scene as shoppers in Bilbao, Spain waited to take advantage of Black Friday sales today

There was Black Friday disruption elsewhere in Spain, when Workers at Amazon's biggest logistics centre in the country went on strike.

Employees at Amazon's San Fernando de Henares facility near Madrid have been demanding better wages and work conditions for months and have already staged several strikes this year. It was unclear exactly how many employees had stopped work.

Ana Berceruelo of the CCOO union told AFP the centre, which prepares packages for clients in Spain and other European countries, 'is at a complete standstill. Lorries are not entering, nor are they leaving.'

But in a statement, Amazon said 'the majority of workers on the morning shift' were working and processing orders.

Meanwhile, Black Friday sales brought thousands of bargain hunters into shops around Australia, with many hoping to catch the best deals. Eager shoppers were pictured lining the corners of designer stores Gucci and Burberry, in Sydney.

Keep cool and carry on: A member of staff was pictured trying to calm crowds as he stood on a display in a shop in Sao Paulo on Black Friday

The knock-down Black Friday prices sparked a frantic rush among shoppers at this store in Sao Paulo, Brazil

Carnage: There was chaos as shoppers scuffled over bargain television during a Black Friday sale at a supermarket in Sao Paulo, Brazil

Shoppers could be seen fleeing in terror as shots rang out an Alabama mall prior to Black Friday shopping, leaving one teen dead and two others, including a 12-year-old girl, injured

In the US, a teenager was killed and two others injured following a shooting at an Alabama shopping centre prior to Black Friday shopping.

Authorities say the shooting happened about 9.30pm local time on Thursday at the Riverchase Galleria in Hoover, a nearby suburb of Birmingham.

Police say a fight between two teenagers, including an 18-year-old, resulted in an exchange of gunfire. One teenager fled but was confronted by two Hoover police officers.

Captain Gregg Rector said at a news conference that a Hoover officer 'did engage that individual, shot him and he is dead on the scene'.

Bargain hunters crowded outside the entrance to this Nike sportswear store in Thessaloniki, Greece ahead of its Black Friday opening

Shoppers were seen standing in a long queue as they waited to shop at department stores in the Woodmead Value mart during Black Friday in Johannesburg, South Africa today

Employees of the luxurious fashion label Gucci were seen handing out bottles of water to the consumers as they braced sweltering and windy conditions to purchase the designer goods at Gucci in Sydney, Australia

Black Friday follows America's Thanksgiving holiday and marks the launch of the Christmas shopping season

The second teenager was taken to hospital and is in a serious condition. Police said a 12-year-old girl also struck by gunfire was in hospital.

Black Friday, the day after the Thanksgiving holiday, was so named because spending in the United States would surge and retailers would traditionally begin to turn a profit for the year - moving from the red into the black. It falls on November 23 this year.

The Black Friday concept still divides opinion.

Supporters say carefully planned, targeted promotions in close co-operation with global suppliers allow retailers to achieve a sales boost while still maintaining profit margins.

British shoppers also got in on the act this morning, with shoppers in Tesco Newcastle taking advantage of deals on televisions (pictured)

Bargain hunters who headed straight to the electronics aisle at Tesco in Newcastle this morning to buy an Xbox were left disappointed when it appeared only six games were on sale

There were some early-morning Black Friday shoppers battling for deals first thing today, as shown in Newcastle at a Tesco, shortly after it opened its doors at 5am

Thousands braved the near-freezing conditions overnight to queue outside stores up and down the country, including Tesco in Newcastle, to beat other shoppers to the biggest discounts

Early-morning risers queue outside Foot Locker in Birmingham's main shopping centre, the Bullring, which is set for an incredibly busy day

Naysayers argue the discounts suck forward Christmas sales that could otherwise be made at full price and can dampen business in subsequent weeks.

Meanwhile, Britain's retailers are hoping Black Friday discounts will get shoppers spending again after a torrid year for much of the sector.

A string of store groups have gone out of business or announced shop closures this year as they battle subdued consumer spending, rising labour costs, higher business property taxes, growing online competition and uncertainty over Brexit.

Toys R Us UK, Maplin and Poundworld have all gone bust, while Marks & Spencer, Debenhams, Mothercare and House of Fraser are between them shutting hundreds of stores.

====== 2349 ========

MOST POPULAR NEWS STORIES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 2350 ========

BARONESS KARREN BRADY IN COURT TO SUPPORT HER MILLIONAIRE FATHER OVER £1.5 MILLION UNPAID BILL

Apprentice judge Karren Brady has appeared in person to support her millionaire developer dad in court as he battles against a builder over an unpaid £1.5 million bill.

The West Ham Utd vice-chairman, 49, sat next to father Terry as the court heard how he had missed 60 payments in the process of transforming his run-down printing works into luxury homes in north London.

As one of Britain's highest profile businesswomen, Baroness Brady of Knightsbridge listened as her father was accused of failing to pay sub-contractor Rishipal Singh – despite eventually selling the 33-property development for £19 million.

Mr Brady, who is fighting the case in the High Court, could face a bill of almost £3.5 million in lost earnings and legal costs if the judge rules against him.

The court heard how 73-year-old Mr Brady - who was once valued at £50 million - made his fortune from his printing firm Alito Colour, based at his Islington print works.

Terry Brady arrives at the High Court in London to take the witness stand

Karren Brady, right, and her father Terry, left, enjoy a day out at Winter Wonderland in London

The multi-million pound development at the centre of the dispute over an unpaid bill

He stepped down from the print business but kept the sprawling industrial unit after production was transferred to another site in east London.

As part of a multi-million pound development, he signed nine contracts to fit windows, doors, floors, kitchens, woodwork and to plaster and decorate his multi-million pound development.

The High Court was told how his property firm, Terry Brady Developments, ran out of cash during the 2011 - 2012 building project and Mr Singh ended up removing his windows and doors from the site when Mr Brady failed to pay his bill.

Mr Singh told the court: ‘I have set out the difficulties in relation to payment and valuations in some detail because they form the context in which [we] removed the windows, vents and internal doors from the site.

‘In all Mr Brady breached over 60 payment deadlines or agreements that he owed to the claimants.

‘In fact, as far as I am aware, Mr Brady never made a single payment in line with his contractual obligations.’

Terry Brady, left, leaves the High Court in London with his wife, Rita, left

Baroness Karren Brady speaks at a West Ham United event. She is vice-chairman of the club

Terry Brady entering a silver Rolls Royce. The tycoon made his money in the printing business

Mr Singh is demanding a massive £2.25 million in lost payments and interest, after he claims he was forced to borrow money at an eye-watering interest rate of ten per cent a month to keep his own companies a float.

However Mr Brady claims he was forced to sign the contracts, for ‘excessive sums’ and ‘under duress’ as part of a ‘fraudulent conspiracy’ between Mr Singh and his own surveyor, Richard Pierce.

Taking the stand today, Mr Brady – described in court as a ‘self-made man’ who knows ‘how to turn a pound note' - said he believed he had been ripped off by both men when he discovered they worked from the same office.

Wearing a dark blue suit, a white shirt with cuff-links and a silver tie, the retired businessman told the court: ‘Mr Singh and Mr Pierce... were engaged in a dishonest conspiracy in the tender process.'

Anthony Spate, QC, for Brady, challenged Mr Pierce at the High Court.

'I put it to you that there was an understanding between you [Pierce] and Mr Singh that in return for you helping him there would be in due course a benefit for you,’ his barrister, Anthony Spate, QC, told the Technology and Construction Court.

Mr Brady signed nine contracts to fit windows, doors, floors, kitchens, woodwork and to plaster and decorate his multi-million pound development

The High Court was told how his property firm, Terry Brady Developments, ran out of cash

Mr Brady could face a bill of almost £3.5 million in lost earnings and legal costs

Mr Pierce, who although employed by Mr Brady to oversee the huge building project appeared as a ‘cut-throat’ witness against his former employer, and told the High Court: ‘I totally reject that’.

He added: ‘Brady thought sub-contractors could not afford lengthy litigation and he was confident he could strike a deal [with Singh to pay less than sums agreed in the contracts].’

The four-storey development in Liverpool Road, Islington, is a mixture of high-end London town-houses valued at up to £2 million each, luxury duplex apartments worth in excess of £1 million as well as social housing flats.

Neighbours include comedian Paul Whitehouse, actor Keira Knightley and former International Development Minister Andrew Mitchell. Former Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson’s family home is a short walk away.

Now retired, Mr Brady has recently downsized, exchanging his £8 million home, Owls Hall in Enfield, north London, for a smaller £3.7 million mansion in Hatfield, Hertfordshire.

Karren Brady, centre, watches West Ham United play Tottenham Hotspur in October 2018

Mr Brady followed his entrepreneur daughter into the world of football, becoming chairman of Swindon Town FC in 2000.

He quit just months later and became a non-executive director or Portsmouth FC in 2004 for three years.

During a whirlwind business career, Baroness Brady took control of bankrupt Birmingham City FC aged just 23. She first appeared on The Apprentice as a celebrity contestant in 2007. After being awarded a CBE in 2013, she was elevated to the House of Lords the same year.

She now appears on The Apprentice as a judge, alongside Alan Sugar.

====== 2351 ========

ROYAL NAVY CAPTAINS COULD CONTROL THEIR SHIPS REMOTELY USING NEW AUGMENTED REALITY HEADSETS

Cutting-edge augmented reality and artificial intelligence which will modernise the capability of combat systems on warships has today been unveiled.

The £20m investment by BAE systems will see technology developed to help Royal Navy personnel to 'respond more readily to evolving threats.'

The technology includes Augmented Reality (AR) glasses which will allow an Officer of the Watch, who is responsible for the ship's safety, to work outside of the operations room and still be able to see tactical situation data and other vital information from anywhere on the ship.

The £20m investment by BAE systems will see technology developed to help Royal Navy personnel to 'respond more readily to evolving threats'

Augmented Reality Part of the investment will see the integration of AR into the bridges of naval ships, through products such as wearable AR glasses. This will allow an Officer of the Watch, who is responsible for the ship’s safety, to work outside of the operations room and still be able to see tactical situation data and other vital information from anywhere on the ship. This ability could result in information such as the location of friendly vessels or other data being overlaid onto a real world view, giving crews enhanced situational awareness. The use of augmented reality would allow the officer to spend more time maintaining a ‘heads-up’ visual lookout without the need to refer to a console or rely on clarifications from his crew – instead, taking control of situations with increased effectiveness and adaptability. Source: BAE

Frank Cotton, Head of Technology, Combat Systems, BAE Systems, said: 'These technologies have the potential to transform maritime warfare and greatly increase the situational awareness and efficiency of crews on board Royal Navy ships.

'Our combat systems expertise and investment in future technologies will ensure we continue to deliver innovative capabilities to navies.'

Part of the investment will see the integration of AR into the bridges of naval ships, through products such as wearable AR glasses.

They would allow an Officer of the Watch to spend more time maintaining a ‘heads-up’ visual lookout without the need to refer to a console or rely on clarifications from his crew

Engineers are also implementing artificial intelligence aids into combat systems, providing crew with the most important information as well as recommended courses of action.

BAE says the technology will give crews the information they need to track, analyse and respond to threats in combat, as well as coordinating resources in other operations including intelligence gathering and disaster relief.

BAE Systems has developed leading combat systems expertise for more than 30 years and its technologies are used across the Royal Navy’s surface fleet

Artificial intelligence Engineers are also implementing artificial intelligence aids into combat systems, allowing their users to quickly process data and reach crucial decisions faster, providing a vital advantage in combat. Artificial intelligence aids will provide crew with the most important information as well as recommended courses of action. BAE Systems has developed leading combat systems expertise for more than 30 years and its technologies are used across the Royal Navy’s surface fleet. These essential systems give crews the information they need to track, analyse and respond to threats in combat, as well as coordinating resources in other operations including intelligence gathering and disaster relief. Source: BAE

This comes at the Ministry of Defence said the Royal Navy will be also able to provide three times the protection to Britain's fishing fleet post-Brexit after a decision to axe three ships was reversed.

HMS Tyne, HMS Mersey and HMS Severn, which currently support the Fishery Protection Squadron, were in the process of being decommissioned.

But, speaking during a visit to Tyneside, Defence Secretary Gavin Williamson said the Batch 1 Offshore Patrols Vessels (OPVs) will be retained for at least the next two years in a move the Ministry of Defence said would 'bolster the UK's ability to protect our fishing fleet as well as our shores'.

It said the Royal Navy currently provided around 200 days of fishery protection a year and the announcement meant the capacity would increase to 600 days a year if needed.

Each ship will operate from its home city - Newcastle, Liverpool and Cardiff - to boost rapid response in British waters.

The ships have also been used in anti-smuggling and counter-terrorism work, and frequently escorted foreign vessels, including those from Russia, through the English Channel.

Part of the investment will see the integration of AR into the bridges of naval ships, through products such as wearable AR glasses (similar to the ones pictured)

This graphic from BAE systems shows how a future operations room could look

Speaking on board HMS Tyne, Mr Williamson said: 'Britain's patrol vessels are essential to protecting our waters, our fisheries and our national security.

'Safeguarding the future of these three ships in the Royal Navy will ensure we can respond quickly to incidents at any time, further protecting our waters as we exit the EU.

'By forward-operating these ships from their affiliated locations across the country, including the Tyne, it will not only allow them to react quickly, but also strengthen the bonds between the Royal Navy and local communities.'

Last month HMS Tyne monitored a Russian frigate as it passed through the English Channel and in 2017 HMS Mersey returned from a 48,000-mile deployment which included a £12 million drugs bust off Nicaragua.

The announcement came during the Defence Secretary's visit to Newcastle, where he also revealed the name of the fifth frigate in Britain's Type 26 class of anti-submarine warships as HMS Newcastle.

Defence Secretary Gavin Williamson on board HMS Tyne where he announced the future of HMS Tyne, HMS Mersey and HMS Severn has been secured

River Class patrol vessels of the Fishery Protection Squadron, HMS Severn, HMS Tyne and HMS Mersey exercising off the coast of Cornwall. The Royal Navy will be able to provide three times the protection to Britain's fishing fleet post-Brexit after a decision to axe the three ships was reversed

Mr Williamson said: 'I am also delighted to be able to continue to strengthen the bond to Tyneside today, by announcing one of Britain's future world-beating Type 26 warships will be called HMS Newcastle.'

It will be built on the Clyde and will protect the UK's nuclear deterrent and aircraft carriers.

HMS Newcastle will also be joined by her sister ship HMS Sheffield, whose name was announced by Defence Minister Stuart Andrew.

Asked if the announcement was a sign to the rest of Europe, pro-Brexit Mr Williamson said: 'It's a very clear message that Britain is an incredibly ambitious nation and our armed forces are incredibly ambitious.

'We're going to be protecting our interests - that's why we have the patrol vessels - but also we want to be expanding our interests and expanding our global presence.

'That's why we're going from three to eight.

'You couldn't have a more clear and significant increase.'

====== 2352 ========

BIRMINGHAM WOMAN SAYS SHE'S BEEN SHARING COUNCIL FLAT WITH GIANT RATS

This is the horrifying moment a mother films a 'giant' rat scuttling around her council flat, where she claims to have been living with giant rodents and maggots for a decade.

Michele Smith, 42, says she is now at 'rock bottom' after years of living with the repulsive creatures and is thinking of declaring her family homeless to escape the horror.

Desperate to show others what she is going through, the mother-of-five set up a camera to film one of the giant rodents scuttling about her kitchen.

Michele Smith (pictured), 42 and from Birmingham, claims the stress of the conditions in her three-bedroom council house has left her with heart failure

The rodents have gnawed holes in the property, including in the family bathtub. As a result the family has been forced to shower at their local swimming pool's facilities instead - which costs £10 per trip

She said: 'Now the kitchen is completely out of bounds, I just can't go in there knowing rats are in there.

'One time a rat was just sat in the middle of the kitchen, another one was sat on my toaster then I found one in my sunbed.

'Now we've barricaded our house; our windows are constantly locked because of it - it's almost prison-like.'

In the shock video, a giant rat can be seen sniffing at various items on the kitchen floor including a broom and clothes.

Each time it is startled, it quickly scurries away under one of the kitchen cabinets.

Michelle claims the stress of the conditions in her three-bedroom council house has left her with heart failure which meant she was hospitalised two weeks ago.

She also claims her pet staffie Remi died aged two because of the rat bait she has been forced to strew around her house.

The rats leave droppings around the house (pictured) and Ms Smith claim the conditions in the property have left her with countless infections - one which took five lots of antibiotics to get rid of

And the mum said the rodents have gnawed a huge hole in the family's bathtub - meaning since August this year they have been forced to shower at their local swimming pool's facilities instead - which costs £10 per trip.

Michelle, who moved into the property in 2005, said: 'I had heart failure two weeks ago because of it and I was in hospital for ten days, I had my heart restarted three times.

'I've had countless infections, one which took five lots of antibiotics to get rid of it. My doctor is even thinking of putting me on lifelong antibiotics because of infections.

'The council just don't care.

'They've sent people out multiple times, but nothing has happened.

'They haven't contacted me since August this year, and they've lied by saying our first contact was in 2017, it's been at least five years.

'Our American staffie Remi died at the age of two because of the bait they left lying around, we've got a chihuahua now and it'll die if it comes across the bait.'

In shock footage captured by Ms Smith, a rat is seen scuttling under the kitchen cabinets (pictured) after sniffing around at clothes and a broom

She also claims her local council has 'abandoned' her since the home invasion began five years ago and said despite numerous visits by environmental officers nothing practical has been done.

She said: 'I'm at rock bottom, we're too scared to go into the rooms because it's so bad.

'It's disgusting and makes you sick - we shouldn't live like this. I've stood on a headless rat in the kitchen before, with my bare feet.'

Michelle said the infestations have also impacted on her social life, as she alleges people no longer visit her home.

There are several holes in the property, which Ms Smith claims the rats crawl through and access the kitchen

Michelle added: 'My two eldest don't even bring my grandchildren over now, I have to go and visit them and travel.

'It's embarrassing - people don't even want to eat at my house anymore, but we're not dirty people.

'I'm a constant bag of nerves, the council have told me to go and stay with family, but I don't have any.

'We've asked to be moved into temporary accommodation, but they just ignored the request.'

A Birmingham City Council spokesman said: 'Housing officers visited the tenant on Tuesday [20 November] following a report of rats at the property, with environmental health officers visiting yesterday [22 Nov].

'We will be carrying out works to seal entry points to the property's drains as well as fitting a gully grid.'

====== 2353 ========

TEENAGER, 17, DEVASTATED BY HER AUNT’S DEATH HANGED HERSELF ON CHRISTMAS EVE

A troubled teenager hanged herself on Christmas Eve after she struggled to cope with the death of her favourite aunt, who had killed herself in the same way.

Tiegan O'Rourke had told her mother that she had been excited about the festive season, but the 17-year-old was still coming to terms with the death of her aunt, 37-year-old Lynnsey Catley.

Tiegan was found hanged in her bedroom after sending a text reading 'I want to be with my auntie'. She was taken to hospital but passed away three days later. Her organs were subsequently donated to help save the lives of others.

Tiegan O'Rourke (left and right) had struggled with mental health and had a troubled childhood

An inquest in Preston, Lancashire, heard Tiegan had experienced a troubled childhood and suffered with mental health problems.

She had been close to mother-of-five Miss Catley and was left devastated after she was found hanged at her home in Blackburn in April 2015.

In 2015, The Lancashire Telegraph reported that tributes had been made to Miss Catley, who had been described as a 'loving mother' to her children.

Tiegan's mother Ema Catley, 38, said: 'There were social issues and difficulties in relationships and those difficulties started to take a toll on Tiegan when she was about 10 years old. There were a number of incidents in the run up to Christmas 2014 that had a very troubling effect on her and by February 2015 I became aware of her self-harming.

'She had three overdoses in a six week period - one of those attempted overdoses was when my sister passed away. She was very close to her auntie and took that really badly.'

Tiegan moved to a children's home near Accrington, where he condition appeared to be improving. Just last year she had been put forward for the finals of the 'Miss Lancashire' beauty contest and had also attended her school prom.

Tiegan (left and right) had previously spoken about her school prom and said it was an important event for her

She had also enjoyed her niece's birthday and had been discussing what outfit she would wear on Christmas Day.

But Miss Catley added: 'She made friends with a young lad but the boy died in the bedroom next to her. This was another dent on her and she descended after that - she struggled with the supported living arrangement.

'Tiegan was asking people not to tell me about some of the self-harm incidents because she did not want to distress me.'

Recalling the day of the tragedy, she added: 'At about 12.30 on Christmas Eve we had a text conversation about presents. She was talking about giving me some money for her brothers present and I told her her grandma had sent her some money, she said 'put it in my bank mum'.

'At about 3pm I received a message on Facebook from the father of one of Tiegan's friends saying she had told him she wanted to be with her auntie. I tried to call her but there was no answer so I called the house and the lady said she would check on her.

The 17-year-old (left and right) had been put forward for the 'Miss Lancashire' beauty pagent

'That same lady then called me back to tell me that she was unconscious and being treated by paramedics. Tiegan was very impulsive, she could be absolutely fine and in the next 30 seconds it would completely change.

'After her death I was told that she had been speaking about her clothes for Christmas Day and that she was looking forward to coming home for Christmas.'

Tiegan had been described as 'caring' and 'beautiful' and in on online tribute her grandparents said: 'Tiegan you will be missed but never ever forgotten.

'You will never age, nor your beauty ever fade. Your inner beauty you shared selflessly and lightened all the hearts you touched. Rest your head now and sleep. Your work is complete.'

Tiegan (pictured above) had struggled to deal with the death of her aunt in 2015

Dr Bernadka Dubicka, a consultant psychiatrist for the Pennine Care Trust, told the hearing that when Tiegan was first transferred to the centre, that staff had been struck by the amount of traumatic events in her life.

'Most of the time she was a very pleasant young girl who was very well liked by the other young people in the unit.

'She would be low for a period of time but would then be keen to be discharged as soon as possible. We would try to persuade her to stay for a little longer but it was difficult as we could not detain her. On one occasion when she was admitted, she wanted to go to her school prom which was really important to her. Tiegan spoke often about her niece and cared about her a lot.

'The profile of emerging personality disorder would fit Tiegan. The fact that her living arrangements were changing frequently was not helpful. She was struggling with the transition from children to adult services.'

Staff at the Pennine Care Trust had said they had been struck by the amount of traumatic events in Tiegan's (left and right) life

Social worker Samantha Moore added that Tiegan has been reluctant to talk about mental health.

'I think I was just another face in social services. I last saw her in November 2017 and she was pleasant and smiling and laughing as she sat on the sofa but then she pulled a rope from behind where she was sat. This was very shocking to see.'

This is while support worker Linda Wade said: 'Towards the end of her stay, the whole team thought that things were getting better for Tiegan. She seemed happier, she was very excited that she could start to stay at her mums, she adored her niece.

'Tiegen didn't smile very much but you could always tell when she was in good mood. But if she was really upset she'd say something like 'I'd like to be with my auntie'. She spent a lot of the time away from the house visiting her friends and her family.

'On the 24th she had a lie in, I went upstairs sometime between 10.30 and 11. I did not like to leave her too long in her room without going and checking on her. She came downstairs to take her medication. She seemed absolutely fine.

'I told her I had to go out on a visit with another resident and she was fine. Tiegan was up and down when I got back. I encouraged her to bring her laundry down which she did. She was popping up and down doing her washing.

'It was taking too long to get this washing done so she went upstairs. I went up to her and she was sat on her bed, I told her to come down and get it finished. I went back downstairs and left it for about five minutes. I went back up and then noticed a rope that went up over the top of the door.'

Recording a narrative conclusion, coroner James Newman said: 'Tiegan was a girl who has been described as funny, intelligent and had her whole life in front of her. She had been through a number of difficulties in her young life and in order for some form of stability and treatment, her mother made the very difficult decision to place her in care.

'Tiegan's behaviour started off with some minor self-harming but this progressed very rapidly to a very scary position. She has been described as quite impulsive and could take risks and that led her on a number of occasions into very dangerous situations.

'Tiegan was trying to move forward and was looking forward to spending Christmas with her family. In a testament to her character, she went on to donate her organs and save lives.'

If you have been affected by any of the issues raised in this article then you can call the Samaritans on 116 123, alternatively you can visit the website at by clicking here.

====== 2354 ========

MILLIONAIRE ARISTOCRAT COLLAPSES IN COURT AS HE BATTLES MOTHER OVER 230-YEAR-OLD COUNTRY ESTATE

William Reeve (pictured outside the Court of Appeal today) collapsed while he fought for the Lincolnshire estate

A millionaire aristocrat collapsed in court as he launched a battle with his lay canon mother over the future of their family's 230-year-old country estate.

Old Etonian William Reeve, 38, says the future of the 18th Century Leadenham Estate, in Lincolnshire, is at risk due to a family row.

His brother, James Reeve, is currently locked in a row with single mother Georgina David, who has accused him of letting them bring up their baby alone despite his family owning the 20-bedroom home.

The estate was owned by his father, Peter Reeve, having been passed down through generations of the family.

But after Peter's divorce from wife Henrietta in 2013, an order was made to sell it and split the proceeds.

It was subsequently decided that the estate would instead be 'partitioned', with his mum owning 40 per cent and his dad the rest.

However, desperate to keep the family estate intact, William is now fighting a Court of Appeal battle which he says could save it.

Representing himself, Mr Reeve collapsed as he began to argue his case and had to be assisted by his mother's lawyers during a 10-minute adjournment.

The Old Etonian and his mother are fighting over this estate, which is set in the Lincolnshire countryside

'The goal of my case is to keep the estate together,' said William, who currently manages the estate. 'My primary aim is securing the future.'

The court heard Henrietta Reeve, 62, a lay canon of Lincoln Cathedral, petitioned to divorce her aristocrat husband Peter in 2011.

Following negotiations in 2013, it was agreed that the estate would be sold and £1million paid to each of their four children.

Lay canon Henrietta Reeve (pictured) is locked in a legal battle with her son over the 230-year-old estate

Money left over would then be split between the former couple, with Peter, 71, receiving 60 per cent and Henrietta 40 per cent.

But the order was later changed so that, instead of being entitled to the cash proceeds, the ex-couple would own the estate in those shares.

In 2015, however, William, one of four children, launched his own claim to the estate, alleging that his parents held it on trust for him.

He said he was entitled to it because it had been promised to him and that his parents had 'acted in an unconscionable manner'.

His case was heard in Birmingham by Judge Jane-Anne Evans-Gordon, who rejected his claim in July last year.

However, he now says that, because the same judge heard his parents' divorce case, she may have been biased against him.

As the divorce was heard in private, he was not allowed to be present, he told two senior judges at the Court of Appeal.

It meant there was a chance that things had been said about him which might have influenced the judge against him.

Georgina David says she and her baby (right) were ditched by David Reeve (left) who is the brother of William

He said he had seen a document from the divorce which painted him in a 'negative' light, and questioned whether more had been said that he did not know about.

'It is a pattern, I say, where I get referenced so frequently, and generally negatively, by my mother in the matrimonial proceedings,' he said.

William said the problem meant a fair-minded observer might consider the judge was potentially biased against him when dismissing his claim.

He said that, as it stood, with the estate 'partitioned' between his parents, it would probably have to be sold off as he could see no way of keeping it intact.

Henrietta (pictured) saw her son collapse in court today as he fought for the estate

Grade 2-listed Leadenham House has been in the Reeve family since it was built in the 1790s and is at the heart of the 3,000-acre estate.

And William argued that, with the estate divided, there simply wouldn't be enough income to maintain and repair the historic pile.

He told the court: 'Even now, the threat on Leadenham House is still huge.'

Representing Mrs Reeve, Christopher Lundie argued Judge Evans-Gordon's ruling could not be faulted and William's appeal should be dismissed.

'The fair-minded and informed observer would not conclude that the conduct of the judge disclosed bias,' he added.

William's father Peter was a defendant to the claim on the estate, but has not responded to the appeal.

Lord Justice Floyd and Lord Justice Baker reserved their decision on William's challenge until a later date.

Lord Justice Baker told him: 'It is obviously a tragedy for your family what has happened. It is very sad, indeed.'

It comes as the Department for Work and Pensions investigated Ms David's claim that she has been left to fend for herself.

The Child Maintenance Service is monitoring the case after being contacted by Ms David's local MP, who is supporting her claims.

Speaking to MailOnline, Ms David, who lives in a rented flat in Chelsea, West London, said: 'We've just been left to fend for ourselves and it's been a nightmare.

'I have hardly any money, we are only managing to survive as it is thanks to financial help from my family, who are helping me pay the bills, yet he lives in a huge stately home and owns his own polo club.

'He's also a direct descendant from Edward III apparently. I would have expected more honourable behaviour coming from such nobility.'

The 34-year-old legal aide said she has suffered Alopecia and has endured sustained stress and anxiety while attempting to care for her young son alone.

====== 2355 ========

BODY FEARED TO BE MISSING ARTS WRITER, 33, IS DISCOVERED IN OXFORDSHIRE

Florence Waters, 33, a freelance contributor to the Daily Telegraph, had not been seen since Monday

A freelance arts writer who had been missing for three days is believed to have died, as police revealed they had discovered a body.

Florence Waters, an Oxford resident and contributor to the Daily Telegraph, had not been seen since Monday.

Last night Thames Valley Police announced they had found a body in Thame, Oxfordshire, and believed it was that of 33-year-old Ms Waters.

The death is not believed to be suspicious, police said, and Ms Waters's next of kin have been informed.

Ms Waters, who is understood to have been living with a man in a £723,000 home owned by her parents, was reported missing three days ago.

Her terraced home, next to the peaceful artisan pub The Punter, overlooks the Thames in an upmarket part of the city.

Ms Waters had never gone missing before, police said as they appealed for details. Neighbours living near her terraced home in Oxford spoke of their shock today.

Tonight Thames Valley Police announced they had found a body in Thame, Oxfordshire, and believed it was that of 33-year-old Ms Waters (pictured)

Maureen Ergeneli said: 'Even though we didn't know her well, it has shattered the whole street. She was so young and beautiful - such a personable smile.

'My neighbour rang me this morning as she had seen it in the Oxford Mail. She said 'have you seen...?', I said 'no' and Googled it and there it was. It's shocking.'

Another neighbour, who did not want to be named, said: 'We didn't know her really... the police were here earlier in the week and we noticed her housemate's motorbike was missing. We saw them in the pub on Sunday.

'She was very quiet, very quiet. It is a very friendly neighbourhood - my guess is she kept herself to herself. It's very, very sad news. I'm so sorry for the family'.

One neighbour, who also asked not to be named, said that he had seen two people dining at her house at the start of the week. They said: 'The last I saw was on Monday.

'There were two people at the table having supper but I don't know if one of them was her. I could see two people through the curtains,.

Another neighbour, who would only give his name as Rob, described her as a quiet woman who recently moved into the property with a male tenant.

He added: 'She was having Sunday lunch with her mum and dad in The Punter pub on Sunday, at around 1 o'clock. She never speaks - she keeps herself to herself.

'She is fairly new around here. Her mum and dad bought the house about four years ago and rented it to a couple from New Zealand. Florence moved in at the beginning of the summer with a guy, but they never speak to the neighbours.

'She drives a blue Volkswagen Golf - but I haven't seen it parked here for a few days,' he added.

Ms Waters has written for the Daily Telegraph under her own name, saying on her social media profile that she has been an arts correspondent since 2012.

She was previously the Daily Telegraph's Online Arts Editor. She is also a keen artist and has art on sale in the US.

A Telegraph spokesman told MailOnline today: 'We are very saddened by the loss of Florence Waters.

'She is in the thoughts of everybody at The Telegraph and we offer our deepest sympathies to her family and friends at this difficult time.'

The Waters family today declined a request to pay tribute at their semi-detached home in a quiet suburb in Oxford.

====== 2356 ========

POLICE ARE TOLD TO STOP HIDING BLUE LIGHTS WITH NYLON TIGHTS ON UNMARKED CARS

Undercover police have been banned from using nylon tights to cover up emergency lights on unmarked cars after a crash left a policeman seriously injured.

Officers around the country have been using nylon tights on the front grilles of their unmarked cars to stop criminals identifying them by seeing the half-hidden lights.

One unmarked squad car in Llanfairfechan, north Wales was involved in a crash after covering its blue lights with tights.

As the squad car rapidly approached a van from behind its driver did not see the obscured blue flashing lights and did not give way. The police driver was forced to swerve into a lay by where it ploughed into a Marks & Spencer truck.

This accident between an unmarked police car and a M&S lorry has led to officers being banned from using tights to cover up blue lights in the grilles of undercover cars

A collision investigator recorded that the nylon covers could not be ruled out as a contributory factor to the collision as they made it extremely difficult for the driver of the light goods vehicle to identify the vehicle behind them as a police car responding to an incident.

North Wales Police's professional standards department became aware of the issue in February 2017, a year after the incident. They made a voluntary referral to the IOPC that month.

The IOPC investigation found that there was no national standard policy over covering lights and as a result, they found a number of forces had been using various measures including using tights to cover lights.

Catrin Evans, of the IOPC, said: 'When police forces attempt to make unmarked police cars less visible, they need to adopt a standardised approach.'

An officer was seriously injured when he slammed into the back of this truck on a lay by in north Wales when he was forced to swerve out of the way of another vehicle which failed to spot him because his emergency blue lights were covered by a pair of tights

Ms Evans added: 'Any modifications made ought to be tested and approved by experts rather than using ad hoc solutions that may not be the safest method.

'For the safety of police drivers and the public alike, testing would also help make sure that any coverings do not significantly limit the visibility of the emergency blue lights when turned on.

'I'm pleased to see the NPCC has recognised the need to develop this national guidance and has commissioned a working group to produce the new policy.'

The IOPC found no case to answer for the officers involved in covering the grille lights with nylon tights due to the lack of any national policy or guidance.

====== 2357 ========

THUG, 20, WHO ATTACKED TRAFFIC WARDEN IS JAILED FOR NINE MONTHS

Danyal Bashir, 20, (pictured outside court) has been sentenced to nine months in a young offender institute

A thug who pushed a traffic warden in the road before stamping on his head in a 'ferocious and extreme' sustained attack has been detained for nine months.

Danyal Bashir pulled 21-year-old Charlie Weston off his moped after he put a ticket on an illegally parked car in Alum Rock, Birmingham.

Mr Weston was repeatedly punched, stamped on and kicked in the throat while Bashir, 20, tried to remove his helmet.

The gang was filmed by onlookers who 'voyeuristically' posted the sickening footage on social media, leaving Mr Weston to feel viewers were 'glorifying in his misery'.

After leaving Mr Weston lying in the road and threatening to run him over, the yobs stole his moped before dumping it in a nearby street.

Today Bashir, who was 19 at the time, was sentenced to nine months in a young offender institute after previously admitting assault occasioning actual bodily harm.

Sentencing him at Birmingham Crown Court, Judge Kristina Montgomery QC said the footage showed the ferocity of the sustained attack.

Traffic warden Charlie Weston was set upon after he started checking vehicles in the street

Mr Weston, from Wolverhampton, was set upon on September 14 just ten minutes after he started checking vehicles in the street.

Shocking footage of the attack posted on social media went viral, leading to police launching a major manhunt for the attackers and identifying Bashir.

Prosecutor Gary Cook said: 'Six males approached Mr Weston, they surrounded him and asked him whether he liked shouting at a woman.

'He was then punched to the side of the head and someone kicked his bike and he fell over into the road.

'Whilst on the ground he was kicked and stamped on repeatedly. He recalls his head being impacted a number of times. It seemed to him to last an eternity and then it stopped.'

The judge said Mr Weston's motorcycle 'was taken from him to humiliate him' and he now suffers sleepless nights, anxiety and 'hates his job.'

Shocking footage of the attack posted on social media went viral, leaving Mr Weston to feel viewers were 'glorifying in his misery'

She added: 'What you did that day was for nothing more than your own personal self-gratification, it was completely unacceptable.

'This was an attack on public servant going about his duty. When they are met with violence that is an aberration in society.

'Firstly you used your shod foot as a weapon. You were playing a leading role in a group attack.'

After the attack, the former security guard spent four hours in hospital where he was treated for bruising to his hands and head and a split lip.

Despite his injuries, he was back at work the next day.

Bashir, who has a previous conviction for assault, admitted assault occasioning actual bodily harm at a previous hearing.

He was ordered to spend nine months in a young offenders' institution.

====== 2358 ========

JEALOUS EX FLEW INTO RAGE AFTER SEEING 'GRAPHIC PHOTOS' THAT HIS EX SENT TO ANOTHER MAN

Jamie Beards (pictured) was given a suspended sentence at Isleworth Crown Court

A jealous former lover who flew into a rage after seeing 'graphic' photos his former girlfriend had sent another man and attacked her cousin when he tried to stop him has been sparred jail.

Jamie Beards had a furious row with his ex Linda Chamberlain at her home in southwest London and attacked her cousin David Palmer when he tried to intervene.

Mr Palmer, 34 had been drinking with Ms Chamberlain, 40, at The Temperance pub, where she worked in Chiswick, before they went back to her home on October 21 last year.

Beards, 36, turned up and punched Mr Palmer repeatedly, leaving him with a damaged eye socket, Isleworth Crown Court heard.

Beards, originally from Oxford, was given a sentence of 18 months suspended for two years due to his previous good character. He denied assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm but was convicted after a two day trial. Beards was also was ordered not to contact Mr Palmer.

Alex Jamieson, defending, told the court that Beards had no previous convictions and had stayed out of trouble since the incident occurred.

A sheaf of glowing character references were handed by the defence to Judge Edward Jenkins.

Judge Jenkins acknowledged that Beards was of previous good character and had stayed out of trouble since the assault.

The judge told him: 'If an offence occurs you may be sent to prison. I hope you understand that you made an effort to change your life. I hope you build upon it.'

Linda Chamberlain (pictured above) and Jamie Beards had broken up after she had reportedly 'cheated' on him

Nicholas Cooper, prosecuting, told the court that Beards and Ms Chamberlain split up on October 9 and had not seen each other since.

'Ms Chamberlain and Mr Palmer left the pub in Chiswick and headed to her home after midnight.

'After some time they heard banging on the front door and it was the defendant, Jamie Beards.'

Jamie Beards (pictured)

Mr Palmer told the court that Beards and Ms Chamberlain had broken up after she 'cheated' on him. He explained that Beards had been very drunk and very angry.

'He was calling her a slut and a whore. He was having a go at her and trying to go into the details of what she had done.

'He had found the conversations, pictures and things, quite graphic. He was not quite right in the head because he was angry about nine years of a relationship.'

Beards (left) and Ms Chamberlain (right) split up on October 9 and had not seen each other since

Mr Palmer told the court that Beards left for a few minutes then came back.

'He stumbled in and lay on the floor. I went down, had a look at him, where he was, and then went back to the front room and sat down.'

He told the court that Mr Beards was drunk and he started arguing with Ms Chamberlain.

The Temperance pub in Chiswick where Linda Chamberlain had worked

Mr Palmer said he tried to stay out of it but when he did step in he was 'pushed in the face' by Beards. It was then that the argument then spilled outside and Mr Palmer tried to put himself between the pair.

He said Beards tried to push past him, then punched him repeatedly in the side of the face. They ended up on the ground with Chamberlain trying to break them up.

Police arrived soon after and both men were arrested but Mr Palmer was left needing surgery for his damaged eye socket.

====== 2359 ========

COUPLE SHAME THE SUPERMARKETS BY PILING UP EVERY PIECE OF PLASTIC USED TO WRAP THEIR FRUIT AND VEG

A COUPLE set out to shame major supermarkets by keeping every piece of plastic used to wrap fruit and veg for two months.

Andrew Hanson and Anna Goodman then laid the mass of plastic across the kitchen floor and posted the image online.

Mr Hanson, 40, from Tooting, London, is seen in the picture holding up a sign which reads: 'Two months. Pointless plastics.'

Some of the plastic wrapping, according to Mr Hanson is from Tesco and Lidl, but most is from Sainsbury's.

The couple laid out all of the plastic they had collected over two months and posted the image on Facebook

In their post they urged supermarkets to ditch plastic in their packaging and switch to paper and cardboard instead

Mr Hanson and Ms Goodman, 35, posted the image to Sainsbury's social media page on November 16 with the caption: 'This is just two months' worth of supermarket plastic.

'All of which could have been replaced with brown paper bags or wasn't needed at all.

'Most of this waste can't be recycled: please, switch to paper and cardboard packaging.'

Speaking today, Mr Hanson said: 'It's a lot more than I expected. What really gets me is that all of this was unnecessary - for fruit and veg that could have been sold loose, and put in paper bags by the shopper if necessary.

The couple, pictured, said all of the plastic in the photo is not recyclable at the kerbside

'Nearly all the plastic came from Sainsbury's Tooting, London, with some from Lidl or Tesco.'

He added: 'Nearly all of the plastic in the photo is not recyclable at kerbside. That was just two months' worth, September and October.

'I started collecting it after Greenpeace's plastic campaign made me aware of just how much plastic supermarkets generate every year - about 800,000 tonnes a year, apparently.'

Sainsbury's customer service team gave a lengthy response to his complaint, claiming paper bags are even less environmentally-friendly.

They wrote: 'We have investigated replacing these plastic bags with paper bags in the past but the same sized bags in paper take up 6 times more room.

'At the moment we can get 9000 bags in our dispenser with a paper bag we can only get 250 paper bags.

'This has the same increase for transport efficiencies and would take up 36 times more space as well as replenishment and storage in depot and store.'

Among those responding to the debate was Laura Jane, who backed Mr Hanson on Sainsbury's social media page.

She wrote: 'Better to slightly over clog the shelves with paper than massively over clog landfills with plastic, you would think. At least offer people the choice?'

However, not everyone was convinced by Mr Hanson's post with Fraser Gibson posting on social media: 'Yet you still bought it.'

And Jonathon Cowley-Thom added: 'What calculations have you made regarding the CO2 emissions that would result from transporting billions of much heavier paper bags?'

Lidl have declined to comment. Tesco and Sainsbury's have been approached for comment.

====== 2360 ========

POLL FINDS THERESA MAY PREFERRED TO CORBYN AND TORY RIVALS AS PM

There was a glimmer of light for Theresa May today amid signs voters think Jeremy Corbyn and her Tory rivals would be making a worse job of Brexit.

The Prime Minister is battling to push her deal with the EU through in the face of huge resistance from her own party and the Opposition.

As she fights off a concerted attempt to oust her by Conservative Eurosceptics, research for Lord Ashcroft has suggested replacing her with Boris Johnson or Jacob Rees-Mogg would not go down well with the public,

She also still rates well ahead of the Labour leader.

In further hope for the PM, people view her Brexit package as better than a no-deal outcome.

But worryingly it is also seen as less attractive than the current EU membership terms.

Research for Lord Ashcroft suggested replacing Theresa May with Boris Johnson or Jacob Rees-Mogg would not go down well with the public

According to the survey, just under half of voters claimed to know at least a 'but' about the Brexit package thrashed out with Brussels.

Some one in five said they thought the Brexit deal honoured the referendum result, with the figure falling to just 13 per cent among Leave voters.

But 43 per cent of the wider public and 59 per cent of Leave voters said it did not.

Overall 34 per cent of people thought the deal was better than going with no agreement - outweighing the 27 per cent who said the opposite.

Asked how they believed the deal compared to existing membership terms, 21 per cent said it was better, and 42 per cent worse.

On the question of who would make the best PM, Mr Corbyn was preferred to Mrs May by 28 per cent - but 45 per cent said he would be worse.

Some 22 per cent said Mr Cameron back in No10 would be an improvement, but they were contradicted by 43 per cent.

Mr Johnson - seen as Mrs May's biggest rival - was regarded as worse by 53 per cent, and better by just 19 per cent.

Mr Rees-Mogg's ratings were similarly dismal, with just 14 per cent saying he would be an improvement, and 42 per cent a downgrade.

None of the other potential replacements - including David Davis, Sajid Javid and Dominic Raab - recorded a net positive result when compared to Mrs May.



====== 2361 ========

THERESA MAY CAN HAVE HER CAKE AND EAT IT! PM REVEALS SHE HAS BEEN SENT A CUPCAKE

Theresa May revealed today she had finally found the Brexit formula to both have her cake and eat it after receiving a cupcake from a sympathetic child.

The PM revealed the treat had been among a 'huge number' of messages of support as she faced her rebellious party with a Brexit they hate and confronted a Tory coup.

Mrs May revealed the gift from Gabby Balaes, 9, during a phone-in on the BBC to drum up support for her ailing Brexit package.

Theresa May revealed today she had finally found the Brexit formula to both have her cake and eat it after receiving a cupcake from a sympathetic child

She said: 'I've had a huge number of messages - really kind messages - from people up and down the country, who have sent me flowers.

'One nine-year-old, Gabby Balaes, actually baked a cupcake with my face on it. There was a message. It said that her dad had said I'd had a tough week and she wanted to make me smile.'

She said she was 'sorry' and 'disappointed' that some members of her Cabinet had resigned over her Brexit stance, adding: 'Obviously, they have got strong feelings about this issue, they had campaigned to leave the EU and they had done good work in the Cabinet.'

Asked if she might sometimes 'go home and swear' about colleagues walking out, she replied: 'No, it's up to people's choice.'

In the BBC phone in, Mrs May also warned that EU is not 'going to give us a better deal' if MPs vote down her settlement.

Torpedoing the plan will just lead to 'more division and uncertainty', she said.

Asked repeatedly whether she will resign if she loses in the Commons - as seems inevitable - Mrs May appeared to rue out the prospect: 'No... I'm focusing on ensuring that we get this deal through Parliament.

'I believe this is absolutely the right deal for the UK. This is not about me.'

The PM revealed on 5 Live (pictured) the treat had been among a 'huge number' of messages of support as she faced her rebellious party with a Brexit they hate and confronted a Tory coup

The comments came after former Brexit secretary Dominic Raab heaped pressure on the PM as she faces 'mission impossible' to get the package through Parliament.

More than half of Tory backbenchers have now publicly declared that they will vote against the deal in a looming Commons showdown next month.

Mrs May repeatedly dodged today when asked whether she has a 'Plan B' for a defeat in Parliament. She also appeared to avoid saying that her blueprint would be 'better' than the current membership terms - suggesting it would be 'different'.

Mrs May insisted none of the Tory rebels who have been trying to oust her - led by Jacob Rees-Mogg - were off her Christmas card list.

====== 2362 ========

'HER DAYS ARE MARKED': COURT HEARS CHILLING TEXTS OF PHARMACIST ACCUSED OF KILLING HIS WIFE

Mitesh Patel (pictured) is accused of murdering his wife after she was found dead at their home

A pharmacist accused of murdering his wife wrote that her 'days are marked' in text messages to another man that were read out in court.

Declarations of love between alleged killer Mitesh Patel from Middlesbrough, north Yorkshire, and a man named Amit Patel were read to jurors at Teesside Crown Court yesterday.

The accused asked Amit Patel how he'd feel if his wife 'goes earlier than you think' after in response to a note saying 'she might be alive for 18 years'.

Prosecutors Nicholas Campbell QC and Jolyon Perks presented the messages to the jury, who also heard of a deleted internet search relating to giving someone a 'huge overdose of insulin'.

One conversation began with the accused saying: 'I really have fallen for you dear. I love you.'

Amit Patel, who originally lived in Yorkshire before moving to Australia in 2016, replied: 'I feel exactly the same. If I had any doubts they're all gone.'

The accused sent Amit Patel a note explaining he had 'lied about something really big', adding he was married to Jessica Patel, the court heard.

Officers attend the scene in Linthorpe, Middlesbrough, where Jessica Patel was found dead in May this year

'She fell in love with me,' he wrote. 'I was like, great, this is my cover-up, and I went for it. My feelings for you still haven't changed. I love you so much it's inexplainable. I finally feel complete. Please don't kill me. Love, Mits.'

In the messages that followed Mitish Patel said: 'Now you know the truth. You have made me so happy. You have no idea how much. I'll make you happy. I know I will. But I've lied to you. I've searched for you so hard but now that I've found you I don't want to lose you.'

Jessica Patel (pictured) was found dead after the pharmacist allegedly murdered her

In April 2012 Amit wrote: 'I still don't like sharing you, that's all. I may have the truth but I can't cuddle up next to that, can you.'

The alleged killer responded: 'Oh babes, hurts me there. Like you said, she's a leaseholder. One day that lease will expire.'

In June 2015 the pair discussed Mitesh and Jessica having a baby. He said to Amit: 'I want to but I don't want to lose you either.'

Amit replied: 'Have it if you want. She might not even get pregnant. We'll deal with it when it happens.'

Mitesh: 'Will you stand by me or not?'

Amit: 'Just have it. There's too many ifs. She might be alive for 18 years.'

Mitesh: 'No because I'll curse it if I lose you. What are your thoughts if she goes earlier than you think? Will you love it like your own?'

Amit: 'Baby please, don't. Go to sleep. I can love it, as long as there isn't anyone else involved.'

Forensics officers are pictured scouring the scene in Middlesbrough, where Mrs Patel was found dead in May

The pharmacist (pictured) described his wife as a 'thorn' in his life and told a man thought to be his gay lover that her days were marked

Police found the body of Mrs Patel at the couple's marital home in the Linthorpe area of Middlesbrough and are pictured at the scene in May

Mitesh: 'I've only ever loved one person in my soul so I can't hurt you. I love my God and I see him in you.' A month later Mitesh Patel said his wife's days 'were marked'.

'If she's a thorn in our life, we should be in hers. If she can cause us upset, it's only fair the same to her.

'See you think I'm mad too. I'm telling you, her days are marked. Do you understand where I'm coming from?' Amit replied: 'Yes I do honey.'

The prosecution say Mitesh planned to start a new life in Australia with his 'soulmate'.

Teesside Crown Court has heard that, after the murder of his wife, syringes containing insulin were found in the defendant's laptop bag.

The jury was told that, two months earlier, searches were made on an iPhone belonging to Patel, and subsequently deleted but they were recovered by police.

They included the phrases 'Can 3ml of insulin kill me', 'Would it be painful to die from an insulin overdose' and 'Can injecting a huge overdose of insulin kill a healthy person'.

Jurors have heard that Mitesh Patel was in a secret relationship with Amit Patel, a doctor who emigrated to Sydney, Australia.

Ten days before Mrs Patel's murder, her husband sent Amit Patel an iMessage saying: 'You know this plan. Do you think it will succeed?'

Amit Patel replied: 'Only you know the answer.'

Mitesh Patel then wrote: 'Do you think it's a bad plan?'

Earlier on Thursday the court heard about searches made on his computer, including 'men have sex with prison' and 'Hindu funeral'.

Mrs Patel was found dead at the couple's Linthorpe home in May. Mitesh Patel denies murder. The trial continues.

====== 2363 ========

HEIDI HEPWORTH CONVERTS TO ISLAM TO MARRY THE GAMBIAN TOYBOY SHE LEFT HER NINE KIDS AND HUSBAND FOR

A mother-of-nine who ran off with a Gambian man she met online has converted to Islam to marry her African lover, it has been revealed.

Heidi Hepworth, 45, who eloped with Mamadou 'Salieu' Jallow, 32, in November last year, leaving behind her husband and nine children, is now planning her dream wedding in a mosque in the Gambia.

Ms Hepworth told the Sun that the majority Muslim nation is a 'a happier and more caring place than Britain' as she prepares to wed her new beau, despite a torrent of criticism.

Former husband of 23 years Andy Hepworth hit out at his ex-wife in February this year claiming that she had been 'brainwashed' and calling her a 'buffoon'.

Scroll down for video

Heidi Hepworth abandoned her life and fled to Gambia for a month to meet a man she met on Facebook last year

Heidi Hepworth, 44, pictured with 30-year-old Mamadou Jallow, who she met on Facebook

But Ms Hepworth, who now wears a hijab and prays every day in the mosque, says she has 'never been happier'.

'No-one imagined this would last but we love each other and are making plans to marry,' she said.

She also revealed she popped the question to Jallow and plans to move to the Gambia full time after they are wed next year, and once her divorce is finalised.

Ms Hepworth previously appeared on ITV show Loose Women defending the decision to leave her family.

During her appearance on the show, she was asked: 'Do you believe this is true love?' and replied: 'Yeah, I've got his photograph on me bank card.'

Mrs Hepworth told the ITV programme: 'I've got three children that were under 16. The holiday was planned for three months. They're all 28 to six.

'There were only three of them left behind who I would have loved to take. They were left with my older daughter, she's 28. I went for a month. They went to school from home and stayed in their own home. It was planned for months.'

Former husband of 23 years Andy Hepworth hit out at his ex-wife in February this year claiming that she had been 'brainwashed'

Heidi Hepworth ditched husband Andy (pictured together), for Mamadou Jallow from Gambia

She said her former partner knew she was going to meet Mr Jallow and drove her to the airport and put her on a plane, telling her: 'Just be careful, be safe'.

Mrs Hepworth added: 'We fell in love. I met him on Facebook. Salieu contacted me out of the blue. We got talking, just chit chat. Just a friend request.

'We just chatted for three or four months. My marriage was over. The marriage had many, many turns in the road as it went down that straight, as marriages do, you separate. It went stale.'

But after her TV appearance her ex-husband Andy said claimed she was being scammed by Jallow.

He said: 'It's become a joke now, she's an idiot and has apparently got his name on her backside - she's in cloud cuckoo land, that's where she's at.

'The last time she went away I mopped her mess up and she's bringing it up again.

Ms Hepworth appearing on ITV's Loose Women earlier this year to defend her decision to leave her husband

'She's wanting money to get over there again. I think that's why she's on the telly, it's the money.'

Mr Hepworth claimed that despite his wife's denials her lover was with her for the money he had found evidence she had given him cash.

'We found a receipt from moneygram where she's sent him money from. It was in her bag, it was £65 in one week. That was when she was still with me. She must have started hiding them after that.

'She's in denial over everything. Everyone knows the truth.'

Mr Hepworth also claimed he had been contacted by other people who claim to have been fleeced by the toy boy.

'People have contacted us saying he's fleeced other women. Four different people, we know he's already fleeced, contacted us over it.'

Mrs Hepworth, who flew out to be with him in Banjul despite never going abroad before, defended the relationship when questioned on Loose Women today.

====== 2364 ========

MOTHER'S EX TAUGHT THEIR SON, ONE, TO CALL HER A 'SLAG' DURING YEARS OF HARROWING ABUSE

Lauren Smith, 24, was subjected to four years of domestic abuse by her partner

A mother who suffered years of abuse from her partner has criticised a woman judge who said she was too ‘strong and capable’ to be a victim.

Paul Measor, 35, subjected Lauren Smith, 24, to harrowing abuse for four years, even teaching their one-year-old son to call her a ‘slag’ and a ‘slut’.

Judge Helen Cousins called Measor’s behaviour ‘disgraceful’ – but said Miss Smith coped too well with the abuse for him to be convicted under domestic violence legislation.

The judge said in her ruling: ‘I have to be satisfied the behaviour was controlling, coercive, and it had a serious effect on the victim. There’s no doubt the victim is a strong and capable woman, whose evidence was truthful. She has since successfully removed herself from the harmful situation.

‘It is to her credit that I cannot find the defendant’s behaviour had a serious effect on her in the context of the guidelines for this offence.’

Miss Smith, from Hartlepool, said: ‘It doesn’t matter whether a woman is considered strong and capable or not ... he controlled my life for four years.’

She told Teesside Magistrates’ Court that Measor, who ran his own maintenance company, tracked her movements whenever she went out, stopped her seeing her friends, locked her in their house and knew the password to her phone. She also said he once held scissors to her throat.

Judge Cousins was played nine secret recordings that Miss Smith made on her mobile phone. In one the couple’s one-year-old son can be heard telling Miss Smith to ‘**** off’ and calling her a ‘slag’ and a ‘slut’ under instruction from Measor. In another recording Measor can be heard spitting in his girlfriend’s face.

Measor was convicted of two common assaults by the judge last month, including for the spitting offence, and jailed for five months.

But the judge acquitted him of ‘coercive control’, an offence brought in under 2015 legislation to target bullies who inflict psychological cruelty on their partners.

Paul Measor, 35, was jailed for five months for his acts of harrowing abuse that included teaching their one-year-old son to call his mother a 'slag' and a 'slut'

The offence concerns relationships where controlling behaviour is used ‘repeatedly or continuously’ and has a ‘substantial adverse effect on the victim’s day-to-day activities’. It carries a penalty of up to five years in prison.

Miss Smith, a schools learning manager, said the criteria for conviction was clearly met in her case.

She said: ‘You learn to put on a brave face and to be strong, but the damage that type of thing does when it happens day in day out should be obvious.

‘It has had a serious effect. I’m still attending a domestic violence support group, my confidence has been badly knocked and I struggle to trust people.’ Measor is appealing against his common assault convictions, meaning Miss Smith will have to give evidence again.

Katie Ghose, of Women’s Aid, said: ‘No judge should base their judgment of a domestic abuse-related case on whether the victim matches their stereotype of what a victim should look or act like.’

A spokesman for the judiciary said judges and magistrates received regular training on coercive and controlling behaviour.

====== 2365 ========

PAEDIATRIC CONSULTANT WHO PERSUADED A 15-YEAR-OLD GIRL TO SEND HIM EXPLICIT PICTURES IS SPARED JAIL

Dr Jonathan Bainbridge, 39, of Cardiff, persuaded a 15-year-old girl to send him explicit photos before meeting her to have sex

A paediatric hospital consultant lost his career and family after having sex with an under-age girl he met on an internet chatroom.

Dr Jonathan Bainbridge, 39, of Cardiff, persuaded the 15-year-old schoolgirl to send him an explicit video and a picture of her breasts.

But police were called after the father-of-two drove 200 miles to meet her for sex in his car.

Bainbridge was spared a jail sentence after a court heard how his chatroom addiction left him a 'broken man'.

He lost his £100,000-a-year-job, his £400,000 home was put up for sale and his pregnant wife left him.

Social workers had to be present when his wife gave birth to their baby daughter while he was on bail.

Merthyr Tydfil Crown Court heard how Bainbridge had been secretly hooked on chatrooms since his university days.

After meeting the underage girl online, he asked her if she could send him 'naughty' photographs of herself.

Prosecutor Roger Griffiths said: 'He met the girl in the Kik Messenger chatroom and exchanged innocent pictures.

'The conversation became more sexualised and he asked her about the size of her breasts and whether she liked oral sex.

'She sent him another innocuous picture and he replied saying he was hoping for a naughty one.'

The court heard the girl sent Bainbridge an explicit 10 second video clip and a picture of her naked breasts.

Bainbridge later drove from his home in Cardiff to North Wales where she was in local authority care.

Merthyr Tydfil Crown Court heard how Bainbridge had been secretly hooked on chatrooms since his university days

The girl had asked him to promise not to 'hurt her or take her away' during their encounter.

Mr Griffiths said: 'They met up, he bought her cigarettes and sexual activity took place in his car.

Police were called after the girl told her carers she had had a sexual encounter with a man in March 2017.

'After he was arrested Bainbridge told police he believed the girl was of legal age.

'He said: "If I'd known she was 15 I would not have gone past the first conversation."'

The court heard Bainbridge was not prosecuted for having sex with the girl because she told him she was 16 during their chatroom conversations.

Bainbridge was not prosecuted for having sex with the girl because she told him she was 16 during their chatroom conversations

David Elias QC, defending, said: 'He has lost a great deal, his good character and no doubt his employment.

'He is having to sell the family home because he can't keep up with the mortgage payments.

'But that pales into insignificance compared to the impact this has had on his wife and two children.

'One hesitates to use the term a broken man but he has lost a great deal.'

Mr Elias said Bainbridge had a problem with chatrooms and used them because he had difficulties in socialising.

He has been suspended by the Aneurin Bevan Health Board and faces being struck off by the General Medical Council.

Bainbridge referred himself to the GMC and is getting help from the addiction charity Living Room.

He admitted possessing a moving image and a photograph of a child under the age of 16.

Judge, the Recorder of Cardiff, Eleri Rees QC, told him: 'You have brought catastrophic circumstances upon yourself with the loss of your employment and break up of your family.

'It is shocking to find that someone highly respected in the medical profession and a mature man did not show greater judgement in this matter.'

Bainbridge, of Cathedral Road, Cardiff, was given an 18-month community order and told to carry out 250 hours unpaid work.

He was made the subject of a Sexual Harm Prevention Order for five years.

====== 2366 ========

GRANDMOTHER'S FAIRYTALE FAMILY HOME IS A CONVERTED WATER TOWER

This stunning 1920s 'House In The Clouds' is one of Britain's tallest cottages - towering 70ft above the landscape.

The home was originally designed for children's author and poet Malcolm Mason and covered up an old water tower, but now it is the 'fairytale home' of Sylvia Le Comber who has filled it with 50 stunningly crafted fairies.

The fairies are scattered all around the landmark house in the Suffolk coastal village of Thorpeness - with at least one being found in each room in tribute to Mrs Mason, who featured them in her writings.

The stunning 70ft high cottage in the Suffolk coastal village of Thorpeness is known as the 'House in the Clouds'

The 1920s home, owned by Sylvia Le Comber, was originally designed to cover up a water tower on the Suffolk coast

The home, one of Britain's tallest cottages, has got its name from towering over every other building in the village

The 78-year-old, who uses the 'fairy house' as her home, said: 'I have changed very little since I bought the house in 1976. The house looks exactly as was in 1922.'

The home provides five bedrooms - two with double beds, three with twin beds - three bathrooms, a drawing room, dining room and one room at the top which is the same width as the base of the house.

There is also one acre of private grounds surrounding the home, which includes a tennis court. It was built in 1923 to provide Aldringham Mill with water but now is a 'family home' with impressive views across the coast.

Mrs Le Comber said the house, which looks out to Aldeburgh and Southwold, was originally converted from a water tower to a house by the Ogilvie family - farmers who used to own the Thorpeness village - for Mrs Mason.

The stunning view from the top of the 70ft high cottage in Thorpeness, which looks out to Aldeburgh and Southwold

The home provides five bedrooms - two with double beds, three with twin beds - and three bathrooms and a drawing room

The property in Suffolk is now the 'fairytale home' of Sylvia Le Comber who has filled it with 50 stunningly crafted fairies

Mrs Mason wrote in her book about the home 'the fairies really own this house or so the children say. In fact, all of them moved in upon the self same day'. And in tribute to this, Le Comber has kept the fairy theme for the house.

Mrs Le Comber, who has now retired, added: 'The house was made for Mrs Malcom Mason - she has a book filled with poems all about fairies. She lived there with her children and was granted it by the Ogilvie family.

'It is funny because the number of fairies I have is constantly rising. More fairies keep arriving at the home, they just appear all of a sudden because someone has come round and dropped one off.

'There is more than 30 fairies around my house all different shapes and sizes as well. There are so many I can't keep count. People who come and stay find the fairies all over the house and it surprises me as well sometimes.

Fairies that live in the house in 70ft high cottage in Thorpeness, which is known as the 'House In The Clouds'

Mrs Le Comber, who uses the 'fairy house' as her home, said: 'I have changed very little since I bought the house in 1976'

The fairies are scattered all around the landmark house in the Suffolk coastal village of Thorpeness

At least one of the fairies is found in each room in tribute to old owner Malcolm Mason, who featured them in her writings

'It's lovely, I have big giant mushrooms that have grown at the front of my house and they are for the 'real' fairies - well that is what I tell people. All the children love the fantasy of the house.

'They see the mushrooms outside the house and imagine the fairies flying to the mushrooms.It is funny, my home is seen to people as another Father Christmas but with fairies instead.'

The grandmother of three said she was thankful to own a house which is a well known landmark - and said it was great for when her family come to visit.

Mrs Le Comber, who has now retired, said: 'It is funny because the number of fairies I have is constantly rising'

There are more than 30 fairies around the house - 'all different shapes and sizes as well', the owner said

Mrs Le Comber, who lives at the property in Thorpeness, said there are so many fairies that she 'can't keep count'

The grandmother of three said she was thankful to own a house which is a well known landmark

Mrs Le Comber, who said she loves to continue to fuel the imagination of her young guests, added: 'It is quite extraordinary house - it is just an amazing property.It is a cottage inside - the house is very high maintenance.

'It is lovely when the whole family come - it is a family home and the house as got pictures of us all around it. If other people stay at the house they will be able to tell it is a family home, I have made it that way.

'It isn't your Laura Ashley or Ikea home. It is a home, it is my home and it is there to be used.It is nice, warm and cosy.'

====== 2367 ========

VAN DRIVER CUTS UP MOTORIST, SLAMS ON BRAKES AND EVEN PUTS VEHICLE IN REVERSE IN ROAD TERROR

Shocking video shows two motorists playing cat and mouse on a motorway with the van driver even putting his vehicle in reverse during four minutes of terror.

The van driver repeatedly swerves and quickly hits his brakes in front of motorist Joss Dickie and then stops on the carriageway and puts his reverse lights on.

Mr Dickie was driving on the M1 southbound between Wakefield and Barnsley when, for reasons that are unclear, the van driver began driving erratically.

The van (pictured) swerves across the lanes and tries to get in front of Joss Dickie's vehicle

The incident happened on October 26 but was only uploaded after Mr Dickie, from Barnsley, South Yorkshire, was given the green light by police.

He wrote online: 'This could have been absolutely horrifying for someone unused to motorways, or perhaps for less capable drivers.

'Fortunately for me, I have plenty of road experience, and was able to handle this situation well enough until it passed.'

After the van swerves across the lanes and when it comes to a stop and Mr Dickie can be heard saying: 'He's come to a complete standstill in the middle lane.'

The van's reversing light can clearly be seen as Mr Dickie takes evasive action.

Mr Dickie can be heard reporting the incident to the police as it happens, exclaiming at one point: 'Jesus Christ!'

In an attempt to shake off the van driver, Mr Dickie pulls off on to the A637 slip road and waits for the van to pass before he crosses the chevrons to rejoin the motorway.

Joss Dickie wrote on social media: 'Happened on 26th October at about 00:10hrs. Police have now given me permission to post on social media in an attempt to ID the driver and his mate.

The van comes to a 'complete standstill in the middle lane' before the reverse lights come on

Mr Dickie said the incident happened in October. The van sharply hits its breaks in the clip

He added: 'The police are looking for this vehicle, so if you spot it, please call West Yorkshire police on 101 with the crime ref:13180561864 8/11/18 or PM me on here, and I'll pass on any details, keeping you anonymous.

'I need to clarify, this van is not thought to be connected with the company advertised on it.'

A mobile phone number is visible on the side of the van. When called a man answered who confirmed he was the owner of the van but did not give his name.

Denying he was behind the wheel, he said: 'I was in bed at that time. The van could have been cloned.'

On social media, Tommy Taylor wrote: 'Wow what a d***. Glad you got through it OK mate'

Naomi Da Fox posted: Why why what a *!?!?!#%##. I hope you're ok and I hope that p head was caught.'

Gemma Zantonio Pierre added: 'That's so scary. Glad you're ok and I hope someone can help you ID him.'

====== 2368 ========

CRICKET STAR JAMES ANDERSON'S WIFE REVEALS MIDWIFE ASKED FOR HIS AUTOGRAPH DURING MISCARRIAGE

The wife of cricket star James Anderson has revealed how a midwife asked for his autograph while she was suffering through a miscarriage.

In a heartbreaking interview, Daniella Anderson told of the 'deeply inappropriate' moment her husband was asked for the signature as she lost her baby at thirteen weeks.

The former catwalk model had been away from her husband, James, at the time she was rushed to hospital.

The wife of cricketer James Anderson (pictured), Daniella has spoken of the 'deeply inappropriate' moment a midwife asked her husband for an autograph as she was suffering a miscarriage. It came before the birth of the two children. Lola (left) was born in January 2009 and Ruby followed in December 2010 (right)

Daniella Anderson first met husband James at London’s Elysium nightclub in August 2004. They are pictured left during the BFI London Film Festival in 2011 and on the right at the Manchester launch of Nicky Clarke on March 31, 2011

The cricketer, who plays for Lancashire and England, had been in India for a test match but rushed to her side as soon as he heard the news.

It was while they were together that the midwife made the unexpected request.

Speaking to the Daily Star, the mother-of-two said: 'The midwife was asking for James’s autograph while I was in the middle of losing our baby. It was deeply inappropriate.'

Ms Anderson also spoke of the 'devastating' impact the miscarriage had at the time and of how husband James struggled to cope with being so far away because of cricket.

It is an issue that he has struggled with throughout his cricket career, previously saying in an interview: 'Clearly there are downsides — not seeing Daniella and the children for long periods, missing birthdays.

'But at the same time I want to create a stable base so the kids can grow up and have a happy childhood without worry.'

James Anderson (pictured) is widely regarded one of the finest fast bowlers of his generation and is the all-time leading wicket tacker among fast bowlers

Alastair Cook, Graeme Swann and James Anderson (right) of England celebrate in the dressing room with the ashes urn after winning the series 3-1 during day five of the Fifth Ashes Test match between Australia and England at Sydney Cricket Ground on January 7, 2011

The pair now have two children, Lola, nine, and Ruby, eight, who came after the devastating first miscarriage - which took Daniella eight months to recover form physically.

Ms Anderson is now involved in the Saying Goodbye charity, which helps women going through miscarriages and the loss of a child.

She has previously spoken of the charity in an interview, saying: ‘It was set up by Zoe and Andy Clark-Coates.

'Zoe had suffered five miscarriages and she wanted to set up something that would help people to remember and grieve.

'As well as the services, they offer support. I have so much admiration for them. They really put themselves out there to help people.

‘If you have a miscarriage before three months, it’s not really acknowledged by a lot of people that it is your little baby that you’ve lost.'

James Anderson (left) married wife Daniella in February 2006 at the Lowry hotel in Manchester. They now have two children together, Lola, nine, and Ruby, eight

Ms Anderson first met husband James at London’s Elysium nightclub in August 2004.

She effectively gave up her modelling career, leaving London to move north to be with James.

They married in February 2006 at the Lowry hotel in Manchester.

James Anderson is widely regarded one of the finest fast bowlers of his generation and is the all-time leading wicket tacker among fast bowlers.

He also holds the record of most wickets for for England in both Test and One Day International (ODI) cricket.

====== 2369 ========

BUSINESSMAN WHO CONVINCED COUPLE TO SUPPLY PROHIBITED FIGHTER JET PARTS TO IRAN JAILED FOR 30 MONTHS

Alexander George (pictured), 77 and from Bristol, has been jailed for two-and-a-half years and banned from acting as a company director for nine years following his conviction at the Old Bailey yesterday

An elderly businessman who made up to £5million after ‘grooming’ a 'very naive' couple into supplying prohibited fighter jet parts for Iran's military has been jailed for 30 months.

Alexander George, 77, recruited Paul Attwater, 65, and wife Iris, 66, to smuggle prohibited aircraft parts to him in Malaysia from their company Pairs Aviation, based in Crawley, West Sussex.

His ‘web of deceit’ involved sourcing parts from Pairs Aviation which were then exported by the Attwaters via a Dutch shipping company and on to Iran through a network of companies in the Far East.

The couple were handed suspended sentences last month after Mr Attwater insisted he had no idea the ‘superficially innocuous’ nuts and bolts George was exporting had a ‘nefarious’ military application.

George was so concerned about his activities coming under investigation that he trawled the internet in an effort to find out who was wanted by the FBI, CIA and Interpol for flogging aircraft parts to Iran.

He held substantial contracts to source and supply Iranian aviation firms with parts and components for planes and helicopters through companies he owned in Malaysia and Dubai.

The parts he sent in 60 shipments included Russian MiG and US F4 Phantom components.

Paul Attwater, 65, and wife Iris, 66, were handed suspended sentences after Mr Attwater insisted he had no idea the ‘superficially innocuous’ nuts and bolts George was exporting had a ‘nefarious’ military application

Shipments such as these were found to be in violation of weapons of mass destruction controls, over fears they could have been used in Iran’s WMD programme.

The programme has come under increasing scrutiny following the cessation of the Iran nuclear deal by President Trump.

George was questioned by HMRC officers at Heathrow Airport in August and December 2010 and denied he was dealing in aircraft parts at all.

He boldly told officers his trade was in wheelbarrows, goggles and gloves for the construction industry.

The Old Bailey heard that the Attwaters were aware of the need for a licence to export some of their products after boarder officials impounded their goods.

But the couple continued to deal with George, sending him the same parts that had been returned by Customs via a forwarding house in the Netherlands.

They claimed they were tricked by George and only wanted a bit of extra cash to pay for their summer holidays and a Crawley Town season ticket.

Judge Michael Grieve, QC, sentenced the Attwaters to six months jail suspended for 12 month last month and said: ‘The fact that you were, in effect, groomed by Mr George I accept - he deceived you.

‘I do not, for one moment, think that either of you are bad people. You have, in my view, been very, very naive.’

The Attawaters (pictured outside Southwark Crown Court) were jailed last month, where Mr Attawater admitted being knowingly concerned in the exportation of goods with intent to evade prohibition or restriction. While Mrs Attwater, also of Ketley, Shropshire, denied but was convicted of the charge

Sending George straight to prison, he told him he had been ‘entirely responsible’ for the Attwaters becoming involved in the scheme.

‘Unlike you, they could not see how innocuous objects like nuts and bolts could be, or would be, put to nefarious use in Iran,’ the judge said.

‘You, by contrast, knew that that was precisely why your customers in Iran wanted them.’

Judge Grieve added that the George, unlike the Attwaters, knew full well the ‘superficially innocuous items with no obvious military use’ were in fact ‘dual-purpose goods’.

The court heard George fought the five-week trial ‘tooth and nail’ but was ultimately convicted in just two hours in light of the ‘overwhelming evidence’ against him.

The judge said in 2009, Customs officials blocked the exports of some of the goods which required a licence ‘due to concerns about the production of weapons of mass destruction in Iran’.

He added that although the ‘export controls might be confusing, they are there for a very good reason'.

‘That ultimate risk is one with potentially very serious humanitarian consequences. Such a consequence included use against others in nuclear weapons.’

Defending George, Dean Armstrong QC, said: ‘There is every possibility, and I do not say this to be over-dramatic but simply to point out the obvious possibility, that any sentence of imprisonment could be a death sentence for him because of his age and circumstances.’

He told the court how George would find prison ‘a harder task’ due to various medical conditions while his wife would also suffer the loss of his assistance around the house.

George Hepburne-Scott, defending Mr Attwater, said: ‘He genuinely did not believe that these items could have a military application...These were nuts and bolts. He has also been completely open with the authorities.

‘He has been extremely naive.’

HM Revenue and Customs helped lead an investigation into George and the Attawaters. Speaking after George's conviction at the Old Bailey (pictured), Simon York, Director, Fraud Investigation Service, HMRC, said: 'These three sold banned items that ended up in Iran. They didn’t care what these parts might be used for, as long as they got paid'

Mr Attwater agreed to sign a basis of plea prior to his formal guilty plea, in which he said: ‘I did not know or believe that goods or aircraft components would be shipped to Iran.

‘I did not think there was even the remotest opportunity of these good ending up in a nuclear weapons program.’

George, of Long Ashton, Bristol, denied two counts of being knowingly concerned in the supply or delivery of controlled goods to an embargoed destination but was found guilty by a jury.

He was jailed for two-and-a-half years and banned from acting as a company director for nine years.

Mr Attwater had admitted being knowingly concerned in the exportation of goods with intent to evade prohibition or restriction

Mrs Attwater, also of Ketley, Shropshire, denied but was convicted of the charge.

They were both sentenced to six months jail suspended for 12 months and barred from being company directors for the next six years.

Proceedings against George’s wife, Ruth, 74, were earlier dropped after the judge ruled she had no case to answer.

Simon York, Director, Fraud Investigation Service, HMRC, said: ‘These three sold banned items that ended up in Iran. They didn’t care what these parts might be used for, as long as they got paid.

‘This was a calculated and cynical attempt to undermine strict trade embargoes and internationally agreed controls. They knew the rules and weaved increasingly elaborate plans to stay under the radar.

‘This case, and these sentences, send a clear warning to others that if you try and shift illegal goods to sanctioned and embargoed countries - we will catch you and you will face justice.’

Luke Dockwray, Senior Specialist Prosecutor at the Crown Prosecution Service, added: ‘Alex George, Paul Attwater and Iris Attwater sold aircraft components to countries and customers they knew required a licence from the government.

‘Despite being warned the goods they were exporting were at risk of being used in a Weapons of Mass Destruction programme, the defendants introduced new corporate entities into the trading chain to disguise the destination of the sales, in order to continue their supply.

‘The CPS worked closely with HMRC to present the complex trading chains to the jury to demonstrate the criminal activity of these defendants.’

====== 2370 ========

CHEATING HUSBAND, 41, WHO BEAT WIFE, 39, IN FRONT OF THEIR CHILDREN SPARED JAIL

Anthony Robson (pictured) left Kathryn (right) with bruises all over her body after he attacked her in front of their children

A cheating husband who beat his wife in front of their children has been spared jail after a judge ruled a 'focus on his feelings' would help better protect her from further attack.

Anthony Robson, 41, headbutted Kathryn, 39, in their 11-year-old daughter's bedroom, leaving his wife with a swollen, cut nose and bruises all over her body after she caught him texting another woman.

The father-of-three grabbed his wife by the throat, forcing his teenage son to intervene.

Robson broke down their front door, smashed a fan against the wall and punched the door of the marital bedroom.

Mrs Robson threw a Pot Noodle over her husband of 14 years when she caught him sending messages to another woman from a camper van parked outside their home in the run-up to his attack.

He had started a new relationship while he and his wife were estranged, but had since returned to the family home in Glossop, Derbyshire.

In a victim personal statement Mrs Robson said: 'Since the attack I have felt a lot different to my usual self which is usually confident and fun. I don't go out alone.

'I am not eating as I'm too upset and hurt. I'm having panic attacks and not sleeping. I am very nervous and jumpy and if I see an argument this makes me feel uncomfortable.

'I cannot concentrate on any of the hobbies I used to do, I don't want to go out because I'm nervous about what might happen. I have nightmares because all I can hear is my daughter screaming.'

Mrs Robson caught her husband sending another woman messages in a camper van (pictured) the day after he'd moved back into their home

She also branded her husband a 'home-wrecker and a wife-beater' and in Facebook posts ahead of his husband's court hearing added: 'I'm alive and traumatised - need prayers to survive the day.'

At Minshull Street Crown Court, Manchester plasterer Robson, of now of Hollingworth, Hyde, admitted assault by beating and occasioning actual bodily harm but was given a six-month jail term suspended for two years after he agreed to attend a counselling programme which is designed to help offenders 'build better relationships'.

He was banned from contacting his wife under the terms of an indefinite restraining order. The so-called Building Better Relationships course is designed to 'promote changes in behaviours and attitudes of males convicted of intimate partner violence.'

Mrs Robson (pictured) says that she has been left too scared to go out on her own and suffering panic attacks as well as poor sleep

Sentencing Judge Bernard Lever told Robson: 'It is a very important feature of this case that you, until recently, were a person of completely good character - but in your early 40s, you have taken a nose dive in your behaviour.

'I don't know how long relations have been deteriorating between you and your wife, what I do know is that you're a big man and she is a petite lady, in any event you had absolutely no business using excessive force on her. Your wife is not a female wrestler.

'I have heard that you have never maintained that is was reasonably necessary to defend yourself. You know perfectly well that you should not have been texting the other woman in the van, shouldn't have had alcohol that evening or broken the door down.

'It was bound to end in violence which it did. But because there have been no other domestic call-outs, I am willing to suspend the sentence. But I want to make serious it is not acceptable for your 11-year-child to have to watch her father beat her mother in her own bedroom, she will have this tape playing over in her head.

'I want you to focus on your feelings because that's the best way to protect your wife and children.'

The court heard how on 6 October this year the defendant had been out drinking with friends when he met up with his estranged wife.

Robson (pictured with his wife) headbutted her in front of their daughter

They both returned to the family home but an argument broke out in the early hours of the next morning as she caught him texting another woman.

Prosecutor Juliet Berry said: 'In May this year the parties separated because the defendant had been having a relationship with another woman, there had been a period of animosity but he returned to the home.

'On the evening, the complainant went out to Liverpool for the evening with a friend and the defendant went for a drink in Glossop. They met at the end of the night. When they returned home, she noticed he was texting another woman while they were sat outside in a camper van. He was eating a pot noodle which she threw over him.

'She went into the house and locked the door which he broke open by kicking it, the parties argued in the kitchen. She left the kitchen area to try and diffuse the situation and went up the bedroom.

'He grabbed her by the throat on a couple of occasions, at this point their 17-year-old son intervened and he pushed him out of the way. He threw a fan at the wall and damaged the door by punching it.

'Their 11-year-old daughter could be heard crying so Mrs Robson went into the bedroom to try and comfort her, the defendant followed her and headbutted her so that she fell to the floor.

'The issue of the headbutt is something where there is some dispute, he said he was reckless but did not deliberately do this. She suffered a cut to the nose, swollen nose, bruises to the side of the head and bruises on the body.

'After she fell to the floor, she hit her head, the defendant tries to assist her. The 11-year-old child witnesses the assault.

'The police arrived to find both the defendant and Mrs Robson in a state of distress, he admitted straight away that he had hurt his wife. He accepted that he assaulted her and expressed remorse for behaving in the manner he did that night.'

Offering a basis of plea with his own version of events, Robson said: 'Kathryn and I had been arguing over me texting another woman, she tipped a pot noodle over me, we continued to argue in the house.

'I went upstairs to get my belongings but she kept coming at me and clawed at my eyes. I grabbed her throat a couple a times and accept this was not in self-defence.

'Kathryn pulled me down the stairs, as I came up the stairs I banged heads with her and came into contact with her nose. I did not pull my head back and headbutt her but I accept that what happened acted as a headbutt.'

In mitigation defence lawyer Thomas McKail said: 'Prior to 2018, the defendant has never been before the criminal courts but he accepts full culpability. The married clearly is now over and has reached an end point. The defendant wholly recognises his attempt to reconcile through alcohol was inappropriate.'

====== 2371 ========

THUG FILMED PULLING OUT A HUGE 'ZOMBIE KNIFE' AND SMASHING A CAR GUILTY OF ATTEMPTING TO CAUSE GBH

Joshua Gardner (pictured in May) pulled out this huge knife and began smashing at the car in a frenzied attack in Croydon

A teenage thug who pulled out a huge zombie knife to smash a car's window while the driver was inside has been found guilty of attempting to cause GBH.

Joshua Gardner was 17 when he was caught battering the vehicle with his weapon on the driver's side before smashing the passenger window in Croydon.

Shocking footage taken in the busy South London street shows him carrying out the brazen attack in at 5pm on May 30.

The thug from Thornton Heath, now 18, was found guilty of attempting to cause grievous bodily harm (GBH) with intent on Wednesday at the Old Bailey.

He had previously pleaded guilty to affray and being in possession of an offensive weapon.

Gardner is seen cycling along the road and stopping next to a blue Volkswagen, which is stationary in the video.

The 19-year-old driver of the car pulls out from a queue of traffic and appears to almost hit Gardner, forcing him to jump out of the way.

The Volkswagen then hits an oncoming vehicle. Gardner drops his bike to the floor and runs after the car, pulling out the huge zombie knife as he does.

He chases after the car and kicked one of the rear passenger doors and then swings the knife six times against the driver's front window.

Gardner then attempts to get into the locked vehicle via one of the passenger doors, but is left running to the other side of the car and goes out of view of the camera.

The thug tried to get in the car using the passenger side door in the attack in May this year, but found it was locked as he brandished the huge weapon in South London

The driver desperately tries to drive away, with the windscreen wipers moving up and down, and Gardner then appears in view of the camera again as he kicks the front passenger door at least twice.

Another two males are seen running towards the car as Gardner smashes the front passenger window with the knife.

At this point the driver gets out of the car and runs off. Luckily the driver was not injured and returned to his vehicle after Gardner made off.

In response to the incident, Croydon North MP Steve Reed wrote to the Home Secretary, Sajid Javid, to call for more to be done to tackle the 'rapid escalation' in knife crime.

The teenager kicked at the Volkswagen and then struck it with a zombie knife during the attack in Croydon in May this year

Gardner lashes out at the car in the daylight attack he unleashed in South London back in May this year

In the letter, which he posted on Twitter, Mr Reed said: '[On May 30] a cyclist in Croydon North pulled out a large knife and attempted to smash a car window to get at the driver.

'This is the latest in a long series of knife attacks across London, many of which have proved fatal.

'Footage of this terrifying incident has been widely circulated and many of my constituents are concerned that our police and public services lack the resources needed to prevent this kind of incident.'

Gardner will be sentenced at the Old Bailey on Monday.

====== 2372 ========

NOVICHOCK BOTTLE ‘COULD HAVE KILLED 4,000 PEOPLE, CLAIMS COUNTER TERROR CHIEF

The James Bond-style perfume bottle Russian hoods used to carry novichok into Britain contained enough nerve agent to kill 4,000, police revealed today.

Alexander Petrov and Ruslan Boshirov's bungled attempt to murder Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in Salisbury in March could have caused 'significant loss of life'

Four months after the first assassination bid, Dawn Sturgess, 44, died after she and partner Charlie Rowley, 45, found the discarded Nina Ricci bottle.

Ms Sturgess is said to have sprayed it on her wrist believing it was genuine perfume at Mr Rowley's home in in Amesbury - Mr Rowley survived.

A specially made model of the counterfeit 'Nina Ricci' perfume bottle that carried enough the novichok to kill 4,000

The perfume bottle full of Novichok (left), which Russian agents Alexander Petrov and Ruslan Boshirov (right) are accused of using in the attack, could have killed up to 4,000 people

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Dean Haydon said the ‘significant amount’ of novichok and the way it was applied was ‘completely reckless’.

He said: ‘When we found it, there was a significant amount of novichok contained within the bottle.’ When asked how many people it could have killed, he told BBC’s Panorama: ‘It’s difficult to say, you know, possibly into the thousands.

‘The amount that was in the bottle and the way it was applied to the Skripals’ home address was completely reckless.’

His probe named Alexander Petrov and Ruslan Boshirov as suspects. They have since been unmasked as officers with Russia’s military intelligence service.

Boshirov is Colonel Anatoliy Chepiga, while Petrov is Alexander Mishkin, a military doctor.

They smuggled the novichok into the UK disguised as a sample bottle of Nina Ricci Premier Jour perfume.

Counter-terrorism sources last night confirmed the bottle could have killed as many as 4,000.

Sergey Skripal and his daughter Yulia were poisoned by the chemical agent novichok in Salisbury in March

Dawn Sturgess, left, who died following exposure to the nerve agent, and her partner Charlie Rowley, right

The Russians spent a fortune on the tiny James Bond-inspired perfume bottle used to carry novichok including developing new technology to ensure it wasn't a suicide mission for their agents, experts revealed.

Hamish de Bretton-Gordon, one of Britain's top chemical weapons experts, says the fake sample vial of Nina Ricci Premier Jour could only have been produced by Putin's top scientists in their most sophisticated and top secret lab.

He told MailOnline: 'They needed to ensure that the men carrying out the attack did not kill themselves while doing it. It would be deeply embarrassing if their agents died on foreign soil'.

The two assassins, using the aliases Ruslan Boshirov and Alexander Petrov, carried the bottle of Novichok into the UK unhindered before spraying it on Sergei Skripal's front door in suburban Salisbury in March.

Experts believe the botched hit came after up to three months of development and testing probably sanctioned at the highest levels of the Russian state.

The lab, branded 'Q-ski' after the research and development division of the British Secret Service in James Bond, made the bottle and 'one-way' applicator nozzle so it was impossible for novichok to leak out in transit.

It was also made of special toughened glass, plastic or ceramic sure not to smash, crack or degrade while carrying one of the world deadliest weapons.

Alexander Petrov (pictured right) has now been revealed as Dr Alexander Mishkin. Ruslan Boshirov (pictured left) was revealed two weeks ago as Colonel Anatoliy Chepiga

====== 2373 ========

DRUNKEN JET2 PASSENGER IS JAILED FOR SIX MONTHS

Kiran Jagdev (outside Leicester Magistrates' Court in August) has been jailed for six months

A drunk woman who screamed 'we're all going to die' on a flight and made a passenger have a seizure has been jailed.

Kiran Jagdev downed up to eight beers and six wines before drinking more alcohol from her bag on the Jet2 flight from Tenerife to East Midlands Airport.

The 41-year-old kicked the seat of an autistic passenger then 'inappropriately touched' and made 'vulgar remarks' to a police officer who tried to calm her, before verbally abusing him.

She has now been jailed by a judge who said her 'catalogue of bad behaviour required a deterrent sentence'.

The judge said Jagdev was 'the author of [her] own and other people's misfortune' and said her actions created 'a dreadful experience for all those who were exposed to her behaviour.'

Jagdev, from New Parks in Leicester, pleaded guilty to being drunk on an aircraft at Leicester Magistrates' Court in August.

She was sentenced to six months in prison at Leicester Crown Court this week.

Prosecutor Joey Kwong told the court how Jagdev had drank between six and eight beers before boarding the Jet2 flight from Tenerife on January 28 this year.

She then drank a further four to six glasses of wine on the plane.

Jagdev downed up to eight beers and six wines before drinking more alcohol from her bag on the Jet2 flight from Tenerife to East Midlands Airport (pictured)

During the flight she repeatedly kicked the back of the seat in front of her where an autistic girl was sitting with her family.

The girl became extremely distressed and was offered another seat by cabin crew.

Jagdev was then seated behind another passenger, and despite being asked to stop kicking, continued to do so, causing the woman to have a seizure, the court heard.

Mr Kwong said: 'She continued to ask cabin crew for a drink and they continued to refuse her and she was issued with an Air Navigation Order.'

After being refused more alcohol by cabin crew, Jagdev then brought her own alcohol out of her bag and began to drink that.

'An off-duty police officer then offered to sit next to her and assist cabin crew,' Mr Kwong said.

'He said the conversation was initially pleasant, but then she began to touch him inappropriately and made vulgar remarks.

'The police officer refused her advances and she became abusive towards him.'

As the flight began its approach to East Midlands Airport, high winds prevented the aeroplane from landing first time.

When the plane began to circle, Jagdev repeatedly shouted: 'We're all going to die' and kept standing up and trying to leave.

When the plane landed, she was immediately arrested by police and became abusive towards immigration staff.

The 41-year-old kicked the seat of an autistic passenger then 'inappropriately touched' and made 'vulgar remarks' to a police officer who tried to calm her, before verbally abusing him

In her police interview when she was sober she had described herself as '7/10 drunk' while on the plane.

She is also known to have an alcohol dependency and was described to have a 'troubled background'.

Judge Philip Head said: 'When you boarded the plane in Tenerife to fly back to East Midlands Airport, you were drunk, so much so that you had to be helped into your seat.

'The effect you had on other passengers must have been dreadful, but the worst was yet to come.

'As the pilot was unable to put the craft down on the approach, that triggered a further foul-mouthed tirade where you shouted 'we're all going to die' for about 10 minutes.

'It is not easy to contemplate the effect of what you were doing doing to other passengers in a stressful situation.

'When you were sober in your police interview, you blamed the crew for selling you more alcohol, but I reject this. You are the author of your own and other people's misfortune.

'This was a dreadful experience for all those who were exposed to your behaviour and it culminated when the landing was aborted.

'This demands a deterrent sentence so people who travel by air and get drunk will know there are consequences.'

Jagdev also has nine previous convictions, and five days before her flight home while in Tenerife she was charged with assault and given a suspended sentence before coming back to the UK.

Defending, Harbinder Lally, said: 'She was intoxicated before she got on the plane itself and the only person the finger of blame can be pointed at is Ms Jagdev herself.

'She simply wants to get back on track and wants to get professional assistance and she is working to do that.'

Jagdev was jailed for six months.

====== 2374 ========

BOOKMAKER BETFRED REFUSE TO PAY OUT £1.7M BLACKJACK JACKPOT TO LINCOLNSHIRE GAMBLER

Betting company Betfred is being sued by a gambler after the firm refused to pay out his £1.7million jackpot.

Andrew Green, 52, thought he had become a millionaire playing Frankie Dettori's Magic Seven - a blackjack game on the bookmaker's website - in January.

The father-of-two spent £2,500 celebrating the win with family and friends, only to be told five days later he wouldn't be receiving his prize because there had been a 'software glitch'.

Andrew Green, 52, spent thousands celebrating his £1.7million online blackjack win

His account shows he had a balance of £1.722932.54 after playing 'Frankie Dettori's Magic Seven' on Betfred's website

The punter, who had just extended his bank overdraft to pay for the celebratory drinks, received a call from the firm's head office telling him it was void and 'no legitimate jackpot win occurred'.

Mr Green, from Washingborough, Lincolnshire, has taken the bookmaker to the High Court after turning down a £60,000 settlement, which required him to sign a nondisclosure agreement.

He told the BBC: 'They [Betfred] are quick to take people's money but when it comes to paying out they offered money as a gagging agreement.

'They have buried their head in the sand. How many are there out there who have signed similar agreements?

The father-of-two turned down a £60,000 settlement and has taken the bookmaker to the High Court

Here, Mr Green plays the blackjack game on the Betfred app. The bookmaker says his massive win was a software glitch

'Over the last ten years how do I know all the money I lost wasn't from glitches in the game and they've taken my money? '.

Mr Green said even if it was a glitch, he'd done nothing wrong and shouldn't be punished.

He started playing Frankie Dettori's Magic Seven with a £100 stake in January and gambled away all of his money.

Pictured: Billionaire Fred Done set up Betfred with his brother Peter in 1967 as a single shop in Ordsall, Salford

How Betfred went from a single shop in Salford to one of the biggest betting firms in the UK Betfred was first launched as Done Bookmakers in 1967. It started out as a single shop in Ordsall, Salford. Brothers Fred and Peter Done financed the first Done Bookmakers shop with capital made from a winning bet they placed on England to win the 1966 World Cup. In 1997, Done Bookmakers acquired the Robert Walker chain of bookmakers, taking their total to one hundred shops. By 2000, the total number of shops nationwide had risen to 200, and in 2002, Done Bookmakers opened their first shop in the Greater London area. The name Betfred was first used in 2004, when the firm also launched their digital platform Betfred.com. In November 2004, a Betfred customer became the first betting shop millionaire. The man, known only as Ken, selected six winners on the totescoop6 and pocketed £1,132,657 in a Salford shop. In 2013, the company established Betfred TV, an in house channel that is available in all shops both on the high street and on the racecourse. It was the first of its kind in the UK. Fred Done was the first bookmaker to pay out early (i.e. before the result was guaranteed), when in March 1998 it paid out to gamblers who had bet that Manchester United would win the Premier League, only for Arsenal to pip United by one point.

But he then managed to work his way up from £3 to £600,000 before one final play landed him the £1.7m jackpot.

Betfred said there was an error in the most recent update to the game - but Mr Green's solicitor said the company has shown no evidence of the glitch, despite repeated requests for the firm to show proof.

A spokesman for Betfred said: 'Betfred loves to pay out all our jackpot winners, both big and small.

'Unfortunately, and as Mr Green is aware, a new game release suffered a software malfunction in January this year and no legitimate jackpot win occurred.

'Given that Mr Green is currently exploring his legal options, it would be inappropriate for us to comment further.'

A preliminary High Court hearing was held on Monday.

In 2016, Betfred was forced to remove a slot game from their site after a customer was falsely told he won £30,000.

Jamie Gardiner, from Kirkby, Liverpool, was playing the 'Land of Gold' game when he got three clovers and a pop up saying 'Win: £29,466.59'.

The 24-year-old was over the moon thinking he'd netted almost £30,000, but started to become concerned when the money wasn't immediately credited to his online Betfred account.

Mr Gardiner said he'd won money in the same way before before, but Betfred insisted it wasn't legitimate.

At the time, he said: 'I play all the time and I know when it comes up there it is meant to go straight into your balance.

'I got two mushrooms and three clovers and whenever you get three clovers you are credited with the jackpot.

Jamie Gardiner was told he won £30,000 from Betfred in 2016, only to find out it was an error

The 24-year-old was playing the 'Land of Gold' game when he got three clovers and a pop up saying 'Win: £29,466.59'

'I put £100 a week into that site which is taken from my bank account immediately, but they just won't pay out for me, it's like a big kick in the face.'

'I would be able to get a mortgage and go on a nice holiday. There is no way this was a potential win and not an actual win.

====== 2375 ========

‘I COULD’VE BEEN A GONER!’: HANDYMAN TELLS OF MOMENT HE FOUND PIPE BOMBS IN A LONDON FLAT

A handyman who discovered two pipe bombs while cleaning out a London flat has spoken out about the terrifying experience.

John Brooks, 55, found the bombs in a kitchen cupboard of a suburban house in Harlesden, North West London on Wednesday morning.

Mr Brooks who initially handled the devices thinking they were fireworks, told friends he 'could have been a goner' after the shocking revelation they were actually IEDs.

After heading home that evening Mr Brooks decided to learned the former tenant was an ex-soldier and urged his bosses to call the police.

A police tent has been erected outside the derelict flat in Harlesden, North West London, picture today, after two items suspected of being improvised explosive devices were found

A friend of Mr Brooks told the Sun: 'He was just tidying up, cleaning and giving the place a lick of paint for the next tenant.

'At first he thought they were bangers, so thought nothing much of it.

'Once he realised who had built them, he felt very uneasy and realised that if they had gone off he'd have been killed.'

Homes in Harlesden were evacuated on Wednesday after the devices were found in an unoccupied two-storey conversion just 100ft from the local police station.

An initial police assessment showed the devices were improvised explosive devices (IEDs). They were made safe and carried out of the flat to be examined.

This morning, a 48-year-old man was arrested by counter-terror officers as a landlord said he 'never had a problem' with the tenant who lived at the property.

Hamed Alikarami, 37, of letting agents Home Seekers 4U, said today: 'I was at the address on Monday to inspect it and I saw nothing out of place.

'The tenant was moved a month ago after a problem with a leak. He was moved to a house in Hendon Central - we worked with him for over a year.

'(He) was a man in his late 40s. He had two young daughters, one was about five. I was called yesterday and told the maintenance man found something in the cupboard and called the police.

'But when I checked on Monday I didn't see anything wrong. But my boss said there was something there. (He) is a good tenant, very polite - he had some problems with his family before but I don't know too much.'

The arrested man was taken to a police station - and neighbours claimed the flat has been unoccupied for years, with work carried out inside over the past few months.

Officers remain at the scene in Harlesden today as it emerged that police have arrested a man

One neighbour, who has lived on the street since August, said the tenant who lived in the Harlesden flat claimed to have been in the Army.

Kitchen porter Samir Hassan, 50, said: 'He never has anyone over at his flat. He has been away quite a bit in the last months - he spoke all the time about his daughter.

'We meet outside where he smoke cigarettes in his shorts - he offers me one sometimes - he can be very kind. (He) has told me about his time in the military.

'He said he was in the Army but he doesn't give any details. He never has anyone at his place, I would say he is a loner and things are always quiet there.

'We speak about football, he is really into that - but he didn't say what he does for work. I see (him) sometimes, but he could disappear for some time.'

Police today used video probes to look for traces of explosives under floorboards, after a search team carrying a ramp and filming equipment arrived at the address.

One of the officers confirmed: 'Every inch of the property will be searched to make sure it's safe.'

A cordon tapes off the driveway where a tent has been erected following this morning's arrest

A neighbour living in the same block said: 'The man who lives in the flat which police are searching is a white British guy aged in his 40s. He's lived there for a while.'

Today, a blue and yellow evidence tent remained outside the large detached house - with a police cordon in place on the driveway.

Detectives could be seen entering the building, which houses 12 separate flats, while groups of officers were patrolling the local area to 'reassure the public'.

Five miles away in Hendon, where a house was searched overnight, next-door neighbour Joseph Korn, 26, said: 'I head a couple of bangs around midnight.

'A few minutes later, there was a police officer with a torch looking for something in the garden next door.

'There were two vans full of officers and unmarked cars parked further down the road. It was a major operation but we weren't told anything to begin with.

A house in Hendon, North London, which was searched overnight in connection with the investigation. Neighbours said they heard 'a couple of bangs around midnight'

'I've since found out that it's connected to the explosives found at a flat in Harlesden and I'm now I'm quite worried. The house next door has been divided up into six bedsits.

'Most of the occupants have only been there two months. We don't known them, there must be about ten people living in that property.'

A resident in the semi-detached house said: 'I heard the police shouting late at night and they arrested someone from the back bedsit on the first floor.'

A neighbour called Bikini Tani, who lives in the flat next door, said: 'I spoke to him a couple of times, he seemed a nice man. He was a former member of the military.

'He walked with a limp which he said had been caused by an injury he picked up in the Army. He also said that he had a wife and kids but I never saw them.'

Residents said the house raided by police overnight had recently been converted into flats.

Angela Brownridge, a concert pianist, said: 'I'd been playing at St James' Piccadilly last night and came home about 11.30pm.

The tenant was moved from the property in Harlesden five miles away to Hendon (pictured)

'Within 30 minutes or so the whole street was full of police, there were at least three vans and several unmarked cars.

'There were 15 to 20 officers in full riot gear with helmets and shields and others who had tasers trained on the front door.

'Officers battered down the front door and later took out a tall man, who had very dark hair and what looked like a beard and moustache.

'There was an officer who remained on standby outside the property all night.

'That house has had a lot of building work done to it recently, the tenants have only been there over the last few months.'

Police discovered the bombs in a flat just a quarter of a mile away from Harlesden Primary School.

A police car and a tent outside the flat in Harlesden last night after police were called there

Residents were evacuated yesterday and kept outside for nine hours while specialist officers worked to deactivate the bombs.

Other neighbours reacted to the discovery of the devices. John Hamilton, 59, said: 'The whole road was shut off yesterday with police everywhere.

'I was told to stay inside because police had found a dangerous package there in the flats. Police kept telling us, it is dangerous don't go out there, it is dangerous.

'The flat upstairs at the front has been unoccupied for two years, you could see into it. Over the past several months workmen have been coming to and from the flat.

'They were Bulgarian and Romanian men, they parked their vans outside.'

Noor Ali, 29, said: 'I was really worried yesterday when police knocked on my door. They came in to tell everyone to stay inside because a 'package' had been found.

'Later on police reassured everyone here in my own flat. I've seen Eastern European builders coming to and from that flat for months.'

Police were called to reports of two suspicious devices found in the unoccupied flat

Another resident said: 'All different people are living in the flats, it don't surprise me. Police found a pipe bomb there - that's what they said yesterday.

'A mother and daughter were arrested in the last year for terror offences around the corner. They lived on Harlesden Road - they were from the Middle East area.'

While Ethel Amoah, 44, said: 'There is all sorts of trouble around here - shootings, stabbings and drugs.

'This is unusual though, I can't see why they would operate in that flat with the police station around the corner.'

Counter terrorism detectives are 'keeping an open mind' in the investigation following the arrest.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said: 'The 48-year-old man was arrested at a residential address in North London on Thursday on suspicion of an offence contrary to section 4 Explosives Substances Act 1883.

Police outside the flat where suspicious devices were found in Harlesden yesterday morning

'He was taken to a south London police station where he remains in custody.

'At this early stage of the investigation, detectives do not believe that the arrested man has links to any terrorist organisations, or that there are any ongoing public safety issues.'

Chief Superintendent Simon Rose, North West Command Unit said: 'I'd like to thank local residents in the area for their patience and understanding whilst we dealt with this incident today.

'The public's safety is our top priority, and I would like to pay tribute to the specialist officers who attended and were able to safely recover the devices.

'I also want to reassure the local community that we have carried out precautionary searches in the surrounding area to make sure there was nothing else of a similar nature nearby, which I'm pleased to confirm is the case.

'The next stage is to investigate how and why the two devices came to be in this flat and detectives from the Counter Terrorism Command will be leading this.'

====== 2376 ========

SECONDARY SCHOOL BANS CHRISTMAS FOR BEING 'TOO COMMERCIAL'

A school has cancelled Christmas this year after the true meaning became 'too commercial' and are asking children to beg for it to be brought back.

Cards, gifts and Christmas activities have been banned for children at Lady Lumley's School in Pickering, North Yorkshire.

In an assembly, 'Father Christmas' told children that if they want to reverse the ban they must persuade their Religious Education teacher to 'change her mind' - who believes Christmas should be about the 'birth of Jesus'.

Pupils at the secondary school now a week to email their teacher to argue why the school should celebrate the festive season.

Children at Lady Lumley's School in Pickering, North Yorkshire have been told that Christmas is cancelled because the holiday is 'too commercial'

Headteacher Richard Bramley said: 'In assemblies this week, Mrs Paul, one of our teachers of RE, spoke about Christmas and whether the message of Christmas has been lost and buried under an avalanche of commercialisation.

'Christmas is a day celebrating the birth of Jesus and should be a time of goodwill to all, yet it can be a very stressful, expensive, argumentative and lonely time.

'Mrs Paul read out a letter from Father Christmas and cited the example of Christmas cards which bear no relation to the origin or meaning of Christmas but carry symbols we now recognise as associated with the holiday season, for example Santa Claus who, in his modern incarnation, was probably invented by the Coca Cola company.

'In her message to students in the assemblies Mrs Paul asked them to consider the true meaning of Christmas and to write to her with their reasons why we should still celebrate this time of year and try to persuade her to change her mind.'

Notable former students at the school include, footballers Craig and Chris Short, Olympic athlete Richard Buck and Labour MP John Healey.

The decision has sparked outrage among parents with some claiming their children had returned home 'upset' by the news.

Cards, gifts and Christmas activities have been banned for children unless they can persuade their teacher to bring it back

One parent tweeted: 'I understand the way the re teacher is trying to educate the kids.but it's the way the kids have been told..mine came in upset.

'Told no Christmas cards allowed or Christmas hats. Detention..it's ridiculous.it's gone to far.'

Another Twitter user (@peedoffparent) wrote: '@LadyLumleys what's all this about kids not being able to celebrate Christmas?? Is this a pi**take or what!?!'

Other parents with the new exercise for their children.

Alison Wilson said: 'Don't know the details, but this actually sounds like quite a good exercise - getting everyone to actually think about what Christmas really is and why we should celebrate it.'

Another user said: 'It's far too commercial now, 2 months of brainwashing, I can't wait until it's over.'

Lisa Perry said: 'This is a brilliant idea. A very clever way of teaching the meaning of Christmas and getting the students to really think about it.'

One parent wrote on Twitter: 'Mrs P did this at Bishopsgarth School and the parents said the same kind of thing. It is a brilliant idea.

'As an RE teacher Mrs P is trying to get the pupils to understand what Christmas is really about........ family and friends and caring for each other rather than Xboxes and Playstations.

'For some families, especially those living in poverty, Christmas is a horrible time of year.

'Parent's struggling to buy presents and knowing they can't meet the expectations of their children due to lack of money.

'Some families have to access food banks and charities to make some semblance of Christmas. That is what Mrs P is doing.

'Getting the pupils to look beyond the glitter and flamboyance on the TV and think about the true meaning of Christmas and to think about those less fortunate than themselves.

'Bravo Mrs P. Keep fighting intolerance and selfishness.'

====== 2377 ========

NEXT RECALLS CHRISTMAS PUDDING AND UNICORN ONESIES OVER FEARS CHILDREN COULD GET TRAPPED INSIDE THEM

UK high street favourite Next has urged shoppers to return a children's Christmas pudding onesie, as there is a risk children could become trapped by some of the decorative leaves.

The retail giant is also recalling a child's unicorn onesie, that comes complete with fabric horn, in case children become stuck.

The product appears to have been taken down from the brand's website but other similar products sell for between £16 and £28.

The Christmas pudding onesie (left) was recalled because of the leaves attached on the hood, while the unicorn onesie was also recalled (right)

In a photo of the onesie, the hood has some small red berries with what appears to be at least two leaves dangling from the end of it.

A spokesperson for the fashion chain said the urgent recall notice was being put out because the length of the pudding leaves attached to the hood could be dangerous.

Next are offering to arrange a collection for the item to be returned or the product can be refunded directly in store.

A spokesperson for Next said: 'Unfortunately, it's come to light that there's a potential problem with the length of the pudding leaves on the hood which could be an entrapment issue if caught.

'We're very sorry for any disappointment and inconvenience this may cause.'

Earlier this year the retailer had also recalled a unicorn jacket due to potential choking/suffocation hazard.

====== 2378 ========

MOMENT BRAZEN THIEVES USE KEYLESS TECHNOLOGY TO STEAL A STUDENT'S CAR FROM OUTSIDE HER FAMILY'S HOME

This is the moment brazen thieves use keyless technology to steal student's car from outside her family home.

A gang pulled up outside Phoebe Bradley-Smith's home in Tyseley, Birmingham, and quickly broke into her Renault Clio without using a key on Thursday morning.

After failing to break into her mother's new car on the drive, the thieves turned to Miss Bradley-Smith's vehicle sitting nearby.

They can be seen jumping into the car and quickly driving off after successfully unlocking it with a remote device.

A gang pulled up outside Phoebe Bradley-Smith's home in Tyseley, Birmingham, and quickly broke into her Renault Clio

A gang of thieves stole Phoebe Bradley-Smith's car from outside her family home using keyless technology

This is the second time the 20-year-old has had a car stolen from outside her home.

On the previous occasion, burglars broke into her home while her parents and sister slept upstairs and took valuables including a laptop, camera and car keys including the one to her Vauxhall Viva.

The first year nursing student at Birmingham City University was absolutely distraught over the second car stolen from her that she was still paying her father back for.

She said: 'It's scary. They knew exactly what they were looking for. It felt like I was being watched. It's annoying because I worked hard to get these cars.

Theives jump into the car and quickly driving off after successfully unlocking it with a remote device

'I don't think I can afford another car because it's the second car that's been stolen in two years, my insurance will be through the roof.'

Miss Bradley-Smith arrived home from her part-time job as a lifeguard at a swimming pool on Wednesday around 10.30pm.

She said: 'When I came in, I heard my car lock because I used the fob which means it locks automatically.

'My mum went to take the bins out at 8.45 the next morning and she said my car was missing. 'I said "what, again?" and burst into tears.

High-tech car thieves working together can steal your keyless car within a few seconds

'I called the police and got into contact with the neighbour who lives across the road and asked him to look at the CCTV.'

She said: 'I've still got both of my keys. I'm a nursing student and I've got two placements this year so this will have a knock on effect.

'It's your whole life. For them they probably got £300.. I come from a working class family and I can't just go and replace it.'

A West Midlands Police spokeswoman said: 'I can confirm we are investigating the theft of a car from outside a house in Tyseley Lane, Tyseley which occurred overnight between 10:30pm on 21 November and 09:30 on 22 November.'

====== 2379 ========

SMART ENERGY METER ROLLOUT 'WILL COST TAXPAYERS £500M MORE THAN PLANNED'

Plans to fit smart meters in every home by 2020 are doomed to fail – but will still cost families at least £500million more than expected, a report reveals today.

The rollout is running over budget and behind schedule, and the devices may not deliver promised energy bill savings, the spending watchdog said.

The National Audit Office (NAO) accused ministers of rushing the plan.

Smart meters were supposed to start in 2014, but did not begin until 2017. By this month just 109,000 have been fitted, leaving suppliers having to install an extra 7.1million of the older meters during this time [File photo]

Smart meters show customers the cost of their energy in real time and allow suppliers to collect readings remotely, putting an end to estimated bills.

It is hoped they will save households money by encouraging them to reduce the power they use.

In 2016, ministers estimated the rollout would cost £11billion and bring benefits of £16.7billion.

However, the NAO found that the true cost of the scheme was at least £500million higher – an extra £17 per household, bringing the total cost for each home to £391 over the period to 2030.

Smart meters show customers the cost of their energy in real time. It is hoped they will save households money by encouraging them to reduce the power they use [File photo]

It added that this was a conservative estimate and did not include other costs such as replacing older meters with more up-to-date versions and extra marketing costs.

The report also said that if the cost of installing smart meters did not come down as the Government expected, the programme may cost a further £1.8billion. However, industry insiders said the smart meter programme could cost billions more than expected.

Under the scheme, energy firms must offer all homes and small businesses a smart meter by 2020. Customers can refuse them.

Energy firms only expect to install them in three-quarters of households and small businesses due to delays – and may not even achieve this, the report said.

Suppliers have been hindered by a three-year delay to the rollout of the newer, more advanced version of the gadget, known as Smets2.

They were supposed to start in 2014, but did not begin until 2017. By this month just 109,000 have been fitted, leaving suppliers having to install an extra 7.1million of the older meters during this time.

However, 70 per cent of the first-generation meters ‘go dumb’ when people change supplier because their new provider cannot communicate with their meter.

This forces people to choose between remaining with a more expensive tariff or losing the benefits of their smart meters. The Government plans to resolve this by connecting old meters to the system for new meters, but this has been repeatedly delayed.

The NAO also said the Government was not monitoring whether savings made by suppliers as a result of not having to send out meter readers, for example, were being passed to customers.

Plans to fit smart meters in every home by 2020 are doomed to fail – but will still cost families at least £500million more than expected, a report reveals today. The rollout is running over budget, the spending watchdog said [File photo]

On Monday, the Mail told how energy firms would have to install 30 smart meters a minute each day to hit the 2020 deadline, but just 9.7 a minute are being fitted.

The Government has also not developed the technology to install meters in high rise flats.

‘The programme is late, the costs are escalating, and in 2017 the cost of installing smart meters was 50 per cent higher than the Department assumed,’ the report said.

Gillian Guy, of Citizens Advice, said: ‘If the costs of the rollout continue to rise, it is households who will end up footing the bill.’

Lily Green, of the auto-switching service Look After My Bills, added: ‘The smart meter rollout has been an utter shambles.’ Energy minister Claire Perry said: ‘We’ve said everyone will be offered a smart meter by the end of 2020 to reap these benefits and we will meet that commitment.’

====== 2380 ========

THE FULL STORY OF THE SEX-CRAZED TRIBE CUT OFF FROM THE WORLD FOR 30,000 YEARS

Poison arrows, knives, spears, clubs, axes, rocks — all of them have been waved very angrily.

Over the years, the message from the natives of the tiny island of North Sentinel in the Bay of Bengal could not have been clearer.

‘Keep away. Go home. Buzz off. Visitors not welcome. We want to be alone.’

Of course they do. The Sentinelese are one of a very few remaining ‘uncontacted peoples’ in the world and they are determined to keep it that way. Which means we know tantalisingly little about their language, their culture, their belief system or even how many of them there are.

But what we do know is that they have lived happily and largely healthily on their tiny, lush, mangrove-swamped 20-square-mile island for at least 30,000 years.

A Sentinelese man aims with his bow and arrow at an Indian Coast Guard helicopter as it flies over the island for a survey of the damage caused by the tsunami in 2004

During which time, they have feasted on wild pig, clams, berries and honey, engaged in energetic communal sex sessions on the beach and repelled pretty much every visitor (well-meaning or threatening) with a flurry of poison arrows and razor sharp machetes.

So it wasn’t such a surprise last weekend when John Allen Chau, a 26-year-old American Christian missionary-cum-thrill-seeking explorer who visited the island was felled by a poison arrow and then dragged round the white sand beaches by a piece of twine until he was dead.

Apparently Chau, a graduate of the evangelical Oral Roberts University, Oklahoma, who had previously declared visiting North Sentinel as his ‘must-do adventure’, had decided his life’s calling was converting the Sentinelese to Christianity.

Poor well-intentioned Chau. Of course, his death is an utter tragedy — a young life cut off in such an horrific and courageous way. He continued walking into the arrows as they fired, so intent was he on delivering his message from God.

And from all accounts he was a wonderful human being — ‘kind’, ‘big-hearted’ and ‘wonderful fun’.

The Sentinelese tribe has attacked almost everyone who has entered their territory. Pictured, the tribes people are seen wielding arrows on the island

But he shouldn’t have been there. Under Indian law, it is illegal for anyone to be within five nautical miles of the islands and, since last year, even filming the natives in the Andaman Islands — which include North Sentinel — has been illegal.

This is partly to protect visitors such as Chau, from the natives’ deadly tendencies.

But more importantly, it is to ensure the continued survival of the world’s last pre-neolithic tribe. A people, so isolated, so apart from, so unexposed to modern life that they are unlikely to have any resistance common illnesses such as flu, measles or even a cold.

As Sophie Grig, a senior researcher with Survival International, put it: ‘This is one of the most vulnerable tribes on the planet. He could be passing on diseases that could literally wipe them all out.’

Which as well as being a disaster for them, would be an anthropological catastrophe. Because the Sentinelese are the only surviving direct descendants of the first humans in Asia. More than 75,000 years ago they made their way from Africa to the Middle East, Burma and India.

John Allen Chau (pictured) was killed by arrows shot by protected tribesmen living on a remote Indian island after he arrived there in a bid to convert them to Christianity

Eventually, they reached the Andaman Islands. Some moved on, but others stayed on North Sentinel, drawn by the lush mangrove jungles, perfect white sandy beaches and a natural bounty so rich and easy to plunder there was no need to cultivate the land. The men hunted turtle, pigs and fish with spears, bows and arrows tipped with bone and hardwood.

The women gathered tubers, coconuts berries and clams and caught fish in homemade nets.

In the summer they collected honey, smearing their bodies with a special bee-repellent leaf paste.

All went naked (but for a few leaves, fibre strings and ornaments) and lived in huts in small family-based groups.

And that’s how they still live 30,000 years on, protected by the sea and their own latent aggression from modernisation, gadgets, plastic, stress and other humans.

The first documented contact with the tribe was made over 1,000 years ago by Chinese and Arabian explorers who were driven back with a barrage of arrows and described the natives as being three feet tall with human bodies and bird beaks. Pretty much every attempt to visit them since has ended in disaster.

The North Sentinel island is out of bounds even to the Indian navy in a bid to protect its reclusive inhabitants who number only about 150

When Marco Polo encountered the islands in the 13th century, he wrote: ‘They are a most violent and cruel generation who seem to eat everybody they catch.’ And, in 1563, a sailor, Master Caesar Frederick, warned: ‘If any ship, by ill fortune, stop at these islands, no one comes back alive.’

So for a long time, even when the rest of the Andaman and nearby Nicobar islands were colonised by the British in 1850 and turned into a penal colony, the Sentinelese were left alone to hunt, eat and generally make merry in their fecund island paradise.

Until 1880, when a British colonial expedition led by Maurice Vidal Portman landed with a squad of armed police, kidnapped an entire family and whisked them off to Port Blair in the Andaman Islands. The adults died immediately and a red-faced Portman hastily returned the four children with gifts.

For nearly a century after that, the islanders were left largely to their own devices.

Until, in 1970, a group of anthropologists approached the island, notebooks and cameras at the ready, and were peppered with arrows and then treated to an energetic beach sex show, described by one observer as a ‘sort of community mating . . . a frenzied dance of desire’.

The Sentinelese attracted international attention in the wake of the 2004 Asian tsunami, when a member of the tribe was photographed on a beach, firing arrows at a helicopter (pictured)

Four years later, there was another invasion attempt — this time the visitors were laden with offerings of a miniature plastic car, a live pig and a selection of aluminium pots.

The response? Yet another volley of poison arrows.

Occasionally, instead of firing weapons, the men wave their penises very angrily and, on rare occasions, would accept the odd coconut before opening fire. But the message has never changed.

‘Please leave us alone. We don’t want to be friends.’

Their decision to resist contact with the outside world is an intelligent one. They are frequently referred to as Stone Age or primitive, but from the little the ouside world has been allowed to learn, we know they are anything but.

For while they have reportedly forgotten how to make fire — they keep multiple fires burning at all times so as not to be caught out — and have no way of counting above two, their botanical, zoological and medicinal knowledge is astounding, albeit unconventional.

They apparently believe that edible plants are protected by good spirits and poisonous plants are favoured by evil.

Chau took a boat ride with the fishermen before venturing alone in a canoe to North Sentinel Island (pictured, a file photo shows tribesmen on the island)

Astonishingly, all the Sentinelese are thought to have survived the tsunami of Boxing Day 2004 in which 250,000 people perished. It is thought that, like many animals, they felt the earthquake, knew a monstrous wave was on its way and shimmied up the trees taking their precious fire with them.

And when the coast guard helicopter circled a few days later to see how they had fared, they peppered it with arrows until the pilot left declaring them ‘fighting fit’. No one knows the exact population, but it is thought to be in decline.

A 2011 count, from a safe distance, spotted 15 people. A census 10 years earlier estimated the population at 39.

The world was once full of ‘individuated’ cultures — indigenous island or jungle societies with their own languages and customs — like the Sentinelese.

Today there are just 100 groups of people scattered across the world — including the Yanomami in northern Brazil; the Ayoreo-Totobiegosode in Bolivia; and, until the last member died in 2011, the Andaman Islands’ Bo tribe — who know nothing of our world and do their utmost to keep theirs a mystery.

Chau hired a fishing dinghy and, aided by the fishermen, reached the vicinity of the island on November 16, before transferring to a canoe (pictured, a canoe he used in October)

But however unwelcoming they are, visitors keep coming.

Chau sounds like a bright and lovely young man. He claimed to have been ‘fascinated’ by the people of North Sentinel and had researched them.

Of course he knew of the danger he faced, if not the danger from his germs to the islanders. He must have known about the Panamanian freighter that ran aground near the island in 1981 and how the had been crew attacked by ‘wild men’.

And he’d have certainly heard of the two Indian fishermen macheted to death in 2006 after their boat accidentally drifted onto the white sandy beach while they were drunk on palm oil brew.

He even wrote a letter to his parents before he left, saying: ‘I think it’s worth it to declare Jesus to these people. Please do not be angry at them or at God if I get killed.’

He’d visited several times before the fateful trip last week — taking scissors, safety pins and a football as gifts. In return they rained arrows down on him and damaged his canoe.

He knew they didn’t want him, that visiting again was akin to entering a tiger enclosure. ‘I have been so nice to them, why are they so angry and aggressive’ he wrote in his diary.

The Indian government adopts what it calls a ‘hands off, eyes on’ policy for the tribe, which means officials moor boats nearby, to check on welfare from a safe distance.

While the seven fishermen who transported Chau and his canoe to within the exclusion zone — and watched while he was killed — have all been arrested, there is no question anyone on the island will be bothered by the authorities.

Let’s hope other reckless souls learn from poor Chau’s death. Because the survival of the Sentinelese depends on it.

====== 2381 ========

RSPCA HUNT CRUEL OWNER WHO STARVED A DOG TO THE VERGE OF DEATH

A manhunt is underway to find the owner of an American bulldog who was starved to within hours of death and dumped on the side of the road.

RSPCA inspectors rescued Oscar, the seven-year-old dog, from a busy road junction in Stockport, Greater Manchester.

The dog weighed half of his expected 45 kilogrammes when he was assessed by a local vet.

Oscar the American Bulldog weighed half of his normal 45kg when he was found abandoned on the side of the road in Stockport by the RSPCA

Inspectors believed Oscar, pictured, was just 'hours from death' if he had not been found

RSPCA Inspector Nadine Pengilly said Oscar's registered owner claimed to have given him away to an unnamed man in a park more than a year ago

Oscar was initially assessed by the Woodcroft Veterinary Group in Stockport before he was handed over to the RSPCA.

Inspector Nadine Pengilly said the 'gentle and friendly' dog is 'literally a skeleton'.

She said: 'He's so emaciated. In my 16 years as an RSPCA inspector, he's the skinniest dog I have seen that wasn't dead. He was 12 to 24 hours away from death.

'He has used up all of his body fat and muscle - the next thing to have been used would have been his organs and that would have killed him.'

Oscar was initially placed on a drip for 24 hours before being fed small amounts of food without making him sick as his stomach may not be able to cope.

Inspector Pengilly said she was determined to bring the person responsible for neglecting Oscar, pictured, to justice

She continued: 'He's so hungry that when you take the plate away he just looks at you so sadly.'

Inspector Pengilly said she was able to trace Oscar's original owner through his electronic chip, although the individual claimed they had given the dog to an unnamed man he met at a park.

The RSPCA hope Oscar will be rehomed next year once he returns to his normal weight.

However, the investigation into who was responsible for neglecting him continues.

She added: 'I would love to get them. Someone's been sat there watching this happen to him.'

====== 2382 ========

BLACK FRIDAY: SHOPPERS ALREADY BOASTING OF CUT-PRICE CLOTHES AND GADGETS

Stunned shoppers were stuck in queues on the streets and on the internet on Thursday night as thousands of online customers tried to bag bargains in the Black Friday sales - hours before they officially began.

Popular websites crashed as savvy spenders attempted to get an early look at the offers at shops including JD Sports, GAME and Debenhams where perfume is VAT free and dressing gowns are half price.

Dozens of shoppers said they were 'locked out' of the website as they hunted for items on sale as one shopper commented 'I thought the point of online sales was to avoid queues'.

Shoppers for the GAME website were shocked when they were given their number in the queue with one man from Bolton tweeting to show he was behind 107579 others in the virtual line. More than 200,000 people were searching for deals on the site which crashed when they went live at 6pm.

Meanwhile, excited shopaholics began queuing outside an Amazon shop which has slashed the prices of goods and gadgets, on Thursday evening, an entire day before other stores rolled out their cut price presents.

The pop-up shop in London's Shoreditch opened at 12.30pm but by early afternoon had already attracted bargain hunters in their droves.

Supermarkets are set to be packed tomorrow from when they open their doors at 5am as shoppers spotted scores of flatscreen televisions being sealed off in the stores by barricades - ready or the morning rush.

Meanwhile, Tesco Black Friday Deals and Asda Black Friday deals were trending on Google as shoppers searched for what they can expect to sweep up in the supermarkets tomorrow.

Stunned Black Friday shoppers joined online queues as they tried to shop for Black Friday bargains hours before the official sales began

Shoppers were even sat in virtual queues for their favourite stores as they attempted to take away bargains on Thursday evening

Those trying to shop at technology and gaming store GAME were stunned to find there were more than 100,000 people in a queue in front of them

Scores of savvy shoppers descended on the temporary Amazon store in London and formed a long line which snaked down the Shoreditch street on Thursday to pick up festive freebies and cut price Christmas presents.

The shop which has exclusive bargains over multiple floors will be open for an entire 24 hours on Friday, and on Saturday and Sunday afternoons.

Elsewhere in London, on Oxford Street, the pavements were packed with shoppers clutching bags loaded with presents.

Within a matter of hours bargain hunters had lined up outside the Amazon shop in London in a bid to grab a pre Black Friday bargain

Tesco prepared for an early morning rush by sectioning off the flatscreen televisions which will go in the sale on Friday morning

Bargain hunters are expected to spend £13.4 million per minute on Black Friday, but high street and online retailers have already slashed prices.

But shoppers are already filling their baskets - in shops and online - and are set to spend a further £8.29 billion over the four-day sales weekend.

The sale at popular gaming store Game was so eagerly anticipated the shop's website crashed when deals went live at 6pm.

On the Debenhams site some items were out of stock before 2am, including perfumes and make-up palettes.

Social media is awash with memes and tweets from customers flaunting their purchases and joking about the bank accounts suffering before the official sales weekend even kicks off.

Before the doors even opened there was a queue down the street of savvy shoppers hoping to snap up presents for Christmas

Black Thursday? Shoppers queued up along the street in Shoreditch to try and grab the best deals in Amazon's pre Black Friday store which will be open over the weekend. It has eight floors and is promising cut price Christmas gifts

The reception desk at the Amazon popup store before it opened on Thursday as thousands are expected to enter over the weekend

Oxford Street was packed with shoppers on Thursday evening as present prices dipped before Black Friday officially began

Visitors sit in home entertainment section at the Amazon.com Inc. pop up shop where they can test out the merchandise on sale at the store

Shoppers have already bragged about picking up Black Friday deals before the official start of the spending bonanza

The Debenhams website crashed when deals included half price dressing gowns and perfume without added VAT

Social media is awash with memes and tweets from customers flaunting their bargains and joking about their purchases - before Black Friday is even underway

People are already joking about the bank accounts suffering before the official sales weekend kicks off

Black Friday tomorrow and sales are set to reach fever pitch on Cyber Monday as Brits splurge almost £2.96 billion on last-minute bargains at the end of the savings weekend.

A spokesman for Westfield - the biggest shopping centre in Europe following a £600million expansion - told MailOnline some 850,000 shoppers went to the centres in London over last year's Black Friday, with similar figures expected this year.

The new research from VoucherCodes.co.uk and the Centre for Retail Research (CRR) reveals traditional high-street retailers are set to receive some £4.80bn in sales over the four-day spending spree - up three per cent on the £4.65 billion spent last year, as savvy shoppers brave the colder weather to snap up all the best bargains in-store.

Debenhams shoppers were 'locked out' of the site and waiting in queues as bargain hunters attempted to grab the best deals

Online shopping tills are also set to be ringing, with shoppers planning to spend £3.48 billion online, up a huge 11 per cent on the £3.13bn spent last year.

Figures reveal that spending over the Cyber Weekend has grown significantly over the last five years, with online and offline spend up 66 per cent and 68 per cent respectively since 2013.

In total, spending online and on the high street over those four days alone now accounts for 24 per cent of festive sales, compared to 14 per cent in 2013.

Clothing (24 per cent), personal electronics (23 per cent) and home electronics (23 per cent) are all topping people's shopping lists this year with over half planning to snap bargains up online.

A collection of behind the scenes photographs of Amazon's warehouse in Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire gives an insight into the scale of orders staff will handle over the next fortnight

Staff at Amazon have been busy picking and packing in their warehouses as they fulfil millions of Black Friday deals

Black Friday is an American tradition, which falls on the day after Thanksgiving, and was adopted by the UK eight years ago.

Staff at Amazon have been busy picking and packing in their warehouses as they fulfil millions of Black Friday deals.

Workers at the Hemel Hempstead fulfilment centre in Hertfordshire have been working round the clock to send out bargains, snapped up by Brits in Amazon's 10 days of Black Friday deals, which ends on Sunday.

Amazon has been offering more deals than ever before on thousands of Christmas must-haves.

The website has had new Deals of the Day every day, offering lower rates on Amazon devices, electronics, toys, fashion, sports and beauty.

There have also been thousands of 'Lightning Deals' - products available at a discount, in limited quantities, for a short period of time - with new deals becoming available as often as every five minutes.

Shoppers said they had already spent money in the Black Friday sales - on Thursday - some without even leaving the house

John Lewis & Partners gears up for Black Friday at it's distribution centre outside Milton Keynes

John Leiws has recruited an additional 3,000 people across it's business, on a temporary basis, to ensure it can offer its usual level of service at its busiest time of the year

John Lewis & Partners is gearing up for Black Friday at it's distribution centre outside Milton Keynes.

The retailer has recruited an additional 3,000 people across it's business, on a temporary basis, at its busiest time of the year.

Gordon McKinnon, operations director at intu which runs Manchester's Trafford Centre, told MailOnline: 'It's difficult to call how Black Friday will fare for the UK's retailers this year, as it continues to evolve with each year that passes. One thing is for sure, Black Friday has grown into a longer term affair compared to previous years.

'We're working closely with our retailers who are telling us that they're taking different approaches according to their customers' tastes and business models.

'Some are participating, others aren't. Some are selectively discounting, others are launching their Christmas promotions to pull in the early festive shoppers. It is not a one-size fits all approach.

'We're also seeing Black Friday develop into a seamless multichannel experience, with shoppers expected to research online before buying instore.'

Earlier today budget supermarket chain Aldi sparked a shopping frenzy at its stores up and down the UK today after fans of the store's festive character, Kevin the Carrot, scrambled to buy merchandise.

Crushing queues formed as shoppers desperate to get their hands on the cheery soft toy made a dash for the till. And there were even reports of a fight breaking out in a Bootle branch as the battle to bring home a Kevin got heated.

As crowds gathered at an Aldi in Skegness, people space-saved in queues and then got friends and family to pass giant versions of Kevin the Carrot - one of the most desirable products - down to them over the crowds.

For those who didn't manage to get their hands on the stuffed toys, there was disappointment, with many taking to Twitter to criticise the lack of stock, after merchandise sold out within hours of being put on sale.

====== 2383 ========

BUNGLE IS FREE! CHOW CHOW DOG LOCKED UP FOR NIPPING A POLICEMAN IS RELEASED FROM CUSTODY

Bungle, pictured tonight, has been released after police seized the dog for nipping an officer's hand in Northamptonshire

A chow-chow puppy who was seized under the Dangerous Dogs Act for nipping an officer's hand has been freed after thousands of animal lovers had demanded the pet's release.

Bungle, a 16-week-old puppy from Stoke Bruerne, Northamptonshire, had faced up to nine months in custody after biting a policeman who was trying to restrain it on a busy road.

The dog's owners and supporters slammed police, calling the warden's actions 'callous' and 'heavy-handed', and saying the pet was 'fretting and very scared' while it was caged.

Tonight police announced Bungle had been returned to its millionaire owners subject to a control order.

The dog, seen in a video happily playing with brother Mister Chow, was dragged from beneath a lorry where it was cowering after escaping from its home.

Bungle, who was bought by the Hayes family for £2,000, escaped from the driveway of the family's £2million property last Saturday before the electric gates could shut.

The dog then twice bit a police officer who tried to grab him, but his owners believe he reacted that way out of sheer fright.

Thousands of people joined an online campaign to free Bungle, as the case of the imprisoned dog drew national attention.

Bungle celebrates freedom after Northamptonshire Police announced the dog had been released from custody

Bungle's supporters declared victory tonight after the dog was freed, although police said the decision had not been influenced by media coverage

Supporters slammed 'callous and heavy-handed' police and wardens, while momentum gathered behind a petition to 'return the imprisoned pup to his family.'

Northamptonshire Police said in a statement: 'A Chow dog that was seized by officers under the Dangerous Dogs Act, after biting an officer twice has been returned to its owners who have agreed to a Voluntary Control Order and have been cooperative throughout.

'A specialist dog handler met with the family this evening and having assessed the conditions and obtained agreement on the VCO, established that the dog could be returned.

'It is the responsibility of all dog owners to ensure their pets are under control and don't present a danger to the wider public at any time.'

Twitter users tonight celebrated Bungle's release after thousands of people had demanded the dog's freedom

Chow-chow puppy Bungle is seen in a video playing with his brother Mr Chow in happier times

Chief Superintendent Chris Hillery defended the officer's actions and said the decision to free the dog was not influenced by media coverage.

He said: 'We understand that the actions taken on this occasion have generated significant public opinion on the proportionality of the officer's actions.

'To be absolutely clear I fully support the officers' actions in this case, the dog was unattended in a live carriageway and was aggressive to those present resulting in the officer being bitten and receiving injuries that required hospital attention.

'The potential risk posed by the dog at that time is not diminished by its age or that it was frightened.

'Having already bitten the officer twice, causing puncture wounds and bruising, it would have been negligent to release a dog displaying such obvious aggression without first ensuring both the dog's and the wider public's safety.

'In no way was this decision impacted by the media reporting. Having gone through a proportionate investigation and risk assessment, the dog has been returned with appropriate conditions to manage any future risk.

'Finally, I can report the officer who was bitten is recovering well.'

Animal lovers raged over the treatment of the 16-week-old puppy from Northamptonshire

Experts warned the puppy was likely to have been 'frightened and teething' and said time away from his family in kennels could permanently affect his temperament.

But police defended their decision, maintaining the public reaction would have been different if the dog had bitten a child or caused an accident when the officer tried to restrain it on a busy road.

Social media users hit out at police, claiming, 'taxpayers' money is being used to lock Bungle up' and arguing 'humans get less for worse offences.'

David Hayes, the dog's owner, said his son Joseph had broken down at school and had to be taken out of lessons when he heard the pet had gone.

Mr Hayes wrote in the Bungle Facebook group: 'We are massively regretful that Bungle was able to sneak out of our gates, and especially that a police officer was injured while on duty and trying to resolve the situation.

'We feel hugely comforted though that it is not just us that feels the outcome of this accident is grossly draconian and disproportionate.'

The four-month-old dog, named Bungle, pictured, could face up to nine months in custody after it was seized by police in Stoke Bruerne, Northamptonshire, last Saturday

There is an outpouring of anger on social media today as people call on police to free Bungle

Bungle was found cowering beneath a truck on the A508 after running form his home

'We are, as ever, respectful of the police doing their job and understand that, given very sad and unacceptable outcomes of some prior dog attack cases, the treatment of any incident needs to be taken seriously.

Thousands of people have joined a Facebook campaign to free Bungle the dog

'However, the inflexibility of this 'zero tolerance' stance seems poorly thought through.

'Keeping a young puppy, that has not done anything unexpected or unacceptable in the circumstances, from a 15-year-old boy over Christmas seems callous.'

The family's gardener today said Bungle has been moved to another kennel, adding police 'will not give the address to the family'.

More than 2,500 supporters have joined a Facebook group calling for Bungle's immediate release.

Mr Hayes and his wife Susan, who are said to be millionaire bankers, have appointed lawyers to look into the matter, The Sun reported.

One neighbour who wanted to remain anonymous said today: 'It's absolutely horrible. It's totally been blown out of proportion. The police should be worrying about more important things.

Bungle, pictured relaxing left and in the arms of owner Susan Hayes, right, was locked up under the Dangerous Dogs Act after biting a police officer

A response from a police chief inspector said the dog had been holding up traffic when the officer tried to catch it but was bitten on the dog and arm

'[Bungle] is a cute little thing, when you see it you just want to pick it and give a big cuddle.

'They've got electric gates and I guess when it was opened, the dog saw an opportunity and ran.

'He was found later under a van and was scared - so had a little nip at the officer - but I've heard it wasn't serious.

'It's upsetting knowing that the family could be without their dog on Christmas - that's the time when you most feel it.

'I've not heard anything about when they are going to get it back. But keeping the poor thing locked away can't be good.

Bungle was taken to Forest Lodge Kennels in Northampton on Saturday by police

Forest Lodge Kennels, where Bungle was temporarily kept following the incident

'It will affect the dog in terribly in the long-term. I hope it will be over turned soon and bungle can come back to his home.'

Bungle was taken to Forest Lodge Kennels in Northampton on Saturday by police.

Owner Barbra Austin said they looked after Bungle for three days before he was moved on, adding he 'grumbled a few times because he's young and was in an environment he didn't know.'

She said: 'We don't know where he's gone now. He came in to us on Saturday afternoon.

'We got a phone call from the police to say they were bringing a dog in. They brought the dog in, we held him.

'The owner phone up prior and asked if we had Bungle and we told them yes we do. I told them we can't release him because he came in through the police.

Thousands have taken to Twitter and Facebook calling for Bungle's release

'I tried to get ahold of one of the officers but they weren't working over the weekend. The owners phone again on the Sunday and asked if they could see him, I said no unfortunately.

'The police came up on the Sunday morning and brought his food up. He was ok, no problem - he was eating and drinking just fine.

'Then we were told he was being moved on the Monday morning - but we weren't told where too.

'All I know was that an officer was bitten and was badly bruised on there arm.

'The officer was out on another job by the A508 and noticed traffic was being held up. He had a look and saw that the dog was under lorry.

'We are only a holding kennel and we don't have dog wardens anymore. They pick them up, bring them and a couple of days later they get moved on.'

In correspondence with police shared in the group, a local councillor said the 'unbelievably heavy-handed' action taken by the dog warden had left the animal 'fretting and very scared'.

David Hayes, the dog's owner, said his son Joseph had broken down at school and had to be taken out of lessons when he heard the pet had gone

A response from a police chief inspector said the dog had been holding up traffic when the officer tried to catch it but was bitten on the dog and arm.

The chief inspector said the dog was being investigated under the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991.

They said: 'The officer was not seriously hurt but attended hospital for precautionary checks, antibiotics and tetanus vaccination.

'Public safety is the priority concern in such situations: the owner was not present and the officers deemed that there was continued risk, both to the safety of the dog and members of the public who were present at the time.

'I am sure we would have had significantly more public anger had the dog bitten a child rather than a police officer or if it had caused a serious accident on a busy road'.

A poster shared on the Facebook page dedicated to freeing Bungle from police custody. More than 2,500 people have joined the online group

RSPCA dog welfare expert Dr Samantha Gaines said: 'Many dogs find being kennelled and away from their families challenging. For young dogs this is especially difficult as they can be exposed to events which can have long-term, negative effects on their behaviour.

'In investigating this case, the circumstances under which Bungle bit and the reasons why dogs use aggression need to be taken into consideration.

'Reports describe Bungle as being frightened at the time he was found and just because he bit on this occasion does not mean he is an aggressive dog.

'We hope that, as happens in other cases, he can be returned to his owners pending any decision.

'In the meantime, we hope that the police will do all they can to ensure Bungle's needs are met for the duration of his seizure. The RSPCA has produced a set of guidelines to help ensure dogs' welfare needs are met during kennelling.'

====== 2384 ========

ANNE ATKINS' SON ALEX WAS BORN WITH ASPERGER'S AND TRIED TO KILL HIMSELF AGED TEN

A rainy Friday evening in March 1997 and I was alone in the house. Our daughters were on a school trip, my husband Shaun at a conference and our two boys had been at boarding school for two terms.

Their headmaster was on the telephone, very shaken. Alexander, our ten-year-old, had been found on the school roof where he’d climbed with the intention of throwing himself off.

I was puzzled that the headmaster seemed so surprised.

Alexander was found on school roof age 10 and wanted to throw himself off. Pictured Alexander with his mother Anne in 1991.

I’d been telling the school for months how unhappy Alex was. We’d had a disturbing conversation in which he’d actually asked me what would happen if he jumped out of the dormitory window. Then his academic performance dropped off a cliff.

I knew it wasn’t boarding itself that was the problem. Alex had been very excited about going. It was the fitting in, getting things right, and not annoying his teachers that was beyond him.

‘But Alex is fine,’ his housemaster insisted when I brought it up with him weeks before the near-suicide. ‘He always looks so happy.’ So happy he wanted to kill himself, aged ten? I was numb with grief.

We hadn’t yet heard of Asperger syndrome, the developmental disorder characterised by difficulties in social interaction that affects one in 100 people in the UK — and, unbenknown to us, our eldest son.

He was just our Alexander, a meticulous, extremely clever, delightful little boy, with gorgeous golden hair and big blue eyes, who filled us with pride and baffled exasperation in equal huge measure.

But when I look back at that day, and what drove him to such despair that he saw ending his life as the logical solution, I’m amazed no one spotted it for so long.

Alex was in his mid-20s before he was formally diagnosed. By then I’d long come to see his Asperger syndrome not as a disability, but as a unique gift. I wouldn’t change him for the world. I would have changed the world for him, though.

I can still hear the whick-whack of the windscreen wipers along the rain-washed M4 as I drove to his school that wet Friday night.

After Alex was shown in, the head left the room. We simply held each other on the sofa and cried, before I drove him, and his brother, home.

Alex was in his mid-20s when he was formally diagnosed with Asperger Syndrome. Today he works for top city firm Golman Sachs. Pictured, Anne and Alex enjoying a boat ride

The next night we talked. It seemed Alexander had approached his desperate unhappiness as rationally as he would a maths puzzle. He was obviously the problem — none of the other children was shouted at or unable to fit in — and the answer was to remove the problem.

So he climbed up to the highest point he could, with a view to jumping. Fortunately, he continued to be rational once there. He wasn’t sure it was high enough. Spending the rest of his life in a wheelchair would only compound his difficulties.

He calculated the consequences. First he would suffer severe pain and months of hospitalisation. His teachers might make allowances for a while but, eventually, they would go back to bullying him, just as before. And he’d be quadriplegic. He also considered how much we love him, and the terrible loss we’d suffer.

‘Besides, it’s quite difficult to kill yourself,’ he explained in his matter-of-fact way.

For years afterwards, I would shake uncontrollably at the thought of my gorgeous boy weighing up the end of his life so objectively. How could anyone fail to see this child as anything but a wonder?

A psychiatrist rang soon afterwards and, with staggering insensitivity (he hadn’t even met Alex) told me not to worry because ‘these people don’t marry — thank goodness! They can sometimes find a simple, clerical job though.’ And he was deeming Alex socially incompetent! Alex was much less ‘disabled’ than the adults supposedly caring for him.

For years I worried — as mothers do — that the circumstances of his birth might be responsible for making my son the way he was. It had been different from his siblings’ (he has two elder sisters, now in their 30s, plus a younger brother, Ben, and 15-year-old sister, Rose). The midwife, who had delivered his two older sisters, told me to push too soon. By the time she realised her mistake, Alex’s birth had been delayed by an hour or two.

Eventually, I asked Professor Simon Baron-Cohen, director of the Autism Research Centre in Cambridge. He agreed there is evidence of a link between autism and a more complicated birth . . . but we don’t know which is cause, and which effect.

How much more characteristic — and funny — that, even before he was born, Alex wasn’t conforming to a neurotypical (non-autistic) timetable. I imagine him working something out in the womb, too preoccupied to be born.

As a tiny child, Alex was fascinated by everything. Aged two, he saw me stirring the bath, and suggested the labour-saving solution of placing the shower head at the other end to mix the hot water with the cold.

His piano teacher, when he was three, propped up the lid and asked him if he knew how a piano worked.

‘Well you thee, Tharlotte,’ he explained — assuming that she didn’t know: otherwise, why ask? Then he climbed into the piano to show her how the hammers hit the strings. She called him The Prof.

He was meticulously thorough — and oh-so slow. At nursery school, they were given a line drawing to colour of a child in bed. The others scribbled over theirs in minutes. When Alex finished, the other children applauded. Partly because it had taken him two days. But also because the bedroom had intricate patterned wallpaper, every petal drawn and coloured . . . as well as the child’s tiny measles spots.

At that age, he made friends easily: a kind child, very fond of his siblings and extremely keen to please. So it was devastating that he was always in trouble — for being late or slow, or thinking about something else.

His life improved the day I told him to look at the floor when he was told off. Until then, teachers thought this boy — who was hurting terribly, but hadn’t learned how to communicate this — was almost psychopathically defiant when he looked straight at them. So they shouted louder and punished him more.

I find Alex endlessly fascinating. So much that I have written two novels with the same hero, Theo, modelled on him down to his speech patterns and idiosyncrasies: answering a question he had been asked long before; forgetting everyone’s names, forgetting to have lunch, while being exceptionally kind and unselfish.

Autistic people are popularly thought to be poor at reading others’ emotions. Alex could read emotions well enough to know that most of his teachers were annoyed with him. Meanwhile, they thought this suicidal child ‘perfectly happy’. So who really had the disability here?

Mental health professionals claim a child who has thought of suicide will return to it, but I knew Alex would never try again because I had told him it was wrong, so he’d ruled it out.

You only ever had to teach Alex something once: how to read music; the rules of chess.

Alexander aged 15 while he was on safari in Botswana. Anne Atkins’s latest novel, An Elegant Solution, is published by Malcolm Down on December 6. A proportion of all royalties will be donated to the new Cambridge Autism Centre of Excellence

I said something else after that incident on the roof, which I never needed to say again. ‘If you’re unhappy, Alex, you must tell someone. Us, preferably. Or a teacher. Even another child. Someone.’

What I didn’t realise was that he didn’t know when he was unhappy. It is not a clearly defined term. So he spent the next decade studying himself, and everyone else, to work it out. Consequently, Alex can now be far more aware of others’ emotions than anyone. He has picked up on my being upset even when I haven’t noticed myself.

It can be like living with Eliza Doolittle in George Bernard Shaw’s Pygmalion; she had to learn upper-middle-class English very precisely and analytically, because it wasn’t natural to her. As a result, she could eventually speak it better than the people she was imitating.

Yet much of Alex’s schooling was extremely unhappy. We should never have sent him back to that school, but we assumed they would look after him better. For sixth form he moved to St Paul’s School in London, where he performed even worse, and was so miserable he was heading for disastrous A-level results.

In utter despair, we let him drop out for his last term and I rang Professor Baron-Cohen out of the blue (I’d heard him give a lecture), begging for advice. He met us out of pure kindness, and wrote an open letter advising that Alex should never be judged in a timed context.

Despite dire (timed) A-levels, he won a place at Cambridge on a brilliant interview and I thought at last he would be happy, studying maths and computer science.

But he eventually had to leave after the university failed to provide appropriate disability support, though his supervisor said he was in the top 150 mathematicians in the UK for his year. Instead, he went to Bristol where he found a wonderfully supportive tutor who allowed him to do everything, including exams, untimed. He graduated with a 2:1.

When my first novel based on him came out, a reviewer said the boy in my story was utterly unbelievable and could never exist. When Alex read it nearly ten years later, he said it was accurate to the last detail.

The sequel is coming out on December 6, 20 years on. Same hero, 20 years older — just like Alex. I’ve written with much more of Alex’s proactive help and support. He is enthusiastic about his alter ego, Theo. After a childhood full of pain and misunderstanding, it must be encouraging to think of readers seeing the world through his Aspergic eyes.

Six months ago, Alex was made redundant from the IT department of a small start-up, for a very Alex reason: he told his line manager not to sack a colleague because he himself was thinking of moving on. We felt like knocking his head against a wall! He applied for numerous jobs and sailed through every exam . . . but failed, each time, at interview.

After several weeks, his older sister, with whom he has bought a house, asked if it might be the awful ponytail half way down his back and his crushed and scruffy clothes?

‘Really?’ he said, astonished. With a suit and short-back-and-sides, he was offered every job he went for, and now works for the top City firm Goldman Sachs.

That long-ago consultant was even more wrong, I know, about Alex’s marriage prospects. He will make the best husband imaginable — to someone who doesn’t mind him forgetting lunch. He’s even joked about me ‘arranging’ a marriage for him, so he can get it right!

Would I make Alexander neurotypical? Never. Because he would never choose it for himself. In his case, Asperger syndrome is not a disability at all. It is his very genius.

After all, asked recently whether he saw himself as abnormal, he said, ‘Not at all. I see the rest of the world as non-Aspergic.’

====== 2385 ========

'BRITAIN'S LUCKIEST DOG' SURVIVES 230-FOOT FALL DOWN A CORNISH CLIFF

A springer spaniel has miraculously survived after falling 230 feet down a cliff on to a Cornish beach.

The lucky animal, Dexter, chased a bird and went straight over a cliff edge while walking with owner Mark Harris at a beauty spot near Portreath, Cornwall.

Dexter fell 230 feet (70 metres) but coastguard volunteers found Dexter had not even broken any bones after shooting off during the walk.

Coastguard workers have described the pet as 'the luckiest dog the in UK'.

Dexter pictured at the bottom of the cliff after falling 230 feet to what his owner Mark Harris thought was his death. The animal was found alive and had not even broken a bone

Mark Harris with Dexter, who fell from the top of the cliff after he chased a bird over the edge of the Cornish beauty spot

Mr Harris, from Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, said: 'We climbed what must have been some 260 feet and then reached the plateau on the top of the cliffs.

'I never took into account what he would do if a large bird flew up in front of him and disappeared over the edge of the cliff.

'With hindsight, Dexter should have been on a lead because the sight of such a bird allowed for a red mist to descend over Dexter and he careered straight after it.

'All my calling and shouting in that very instant could not stop what happened next... Dexter disappeared over the edge of the cliff.

'In blind panic, I ran to the cliff's edge hoping that there would be a ledge but there was a sheer drop to the beach below.

'Dexter's body was lying on the beach at the bottom of the cliffs sprawled and unmoving.'

Mr Harris thought that Dexter was surely dead, but called 999 so the dog's body could be removed.

He continued: 'I took a photo of him lying motionless on the beach as I needed something to cling on to and remind me of my idiocy of not following the code of walking dogs along the cliffs.

'I was just about to call 999 when there was movement from below. First Dexter's head moved a little. Then he raised himself up on his front legs and the back legs followed.

'He walked slowly towards the sea and the wash lapped over his paws. He walked back towards the base of the cliffs and curled up on the sand.

The lucky animal, Dexter (pictured), chased a bird and went straight over a cliff edge while walking with owner Mark Harris at a beauty spot near Portreath, Cornwall

Mr Harris said he and the dog had gone on a circular walk, climbing 260 feet and then reaching the plateau on the top of the cliffs (pictured nearby)

'The Coastguard arrived within 20 minutes - quite an incredible response time. They got me back from the cliff's edge and took control.

'Due to the height of the cliffs and more so their unsafe and crumbly nature, the coastguard decided to call the RNLI boat from St Agnes to ride up onto the beach and pick Dexter up.

'I was driven down to the harbour at Portreath to take Dexter and if still alive and get him straight to the vets.

'Dexter was carried into the surgery in his crate. I explained what happened and they took my details and I left Dexter in their capable hands.

'The good news was that miraculously he had no broken bones. Furthermore all his internal organs were fine, apart from his lungs that had undergone quite severe bruising.

'If he isn't the luckiest dog in the world, I don't know one that could be!'

====== 2386 ========

SALISBURY POLICE OFFICER POISONED IN NOVICHOK ATTACK SPEAKS FOR FIRST TIME

The police officer who was poisoned in the Salisbury nerve agent attack has been forced out of his home and had his possessions sealed away over fears of contamination, he has revealed.

Detective Sergeant Nick Bailey has told of the 'emotional battering' he has suffered after he became an accidental victim of the attempt to kill former spy Sergei Skripal.

Mr Bailey, who was left fighting for his life after visiting the Skripal home in Salisbury in March, said tonight: 'We lost everything.'

Speaking to BBC's Panorama programme tonight he revealed how his whole body was 'juddering' and was 'dripping with sweat' after he was poisoned in the Salisbury novichok attack.

Russian double agent Mr Skripal and his 33-year-old daughter Yulia were targeted with the deadly nerve agent Novichok in a failed assassination attempt in March.

The latest revelations came as police released new CCTV footage of the two suspects taking photos in Salisbury. Police warned last night there could still be hazardous materials in the city.

Detective Sergeant Nick Bailey has broken his silence on his horrifying ordeal that left him fighting for life in hospital and is interviewed for Panorama on BBC One tonight

The home of Sergei Skripal in Salisbury (left) that DS Nick Bailey (right) visited after the pair were found slumped on a bench in Salisbury city centre

Speaking tonight, the Wiltshire Police officer said: 'I describe it as emotional battering and psychological impact.

'It's taken longer to deal with just because of everything that has happened to us. Not only did we lose the house, we lost all of our possessions, including everything the kids owned, we lost all that, the cars.

'We lost everything. And yeah it's been very difficult to kind of come to terms with that.'

In the hours that followed the attack Mr Bailey became gravely ill as medics faced a race against time to save him from the affects of the poison.

He said: 'Everything was juddering. My whole body was just dripping with sweat. I was petrified.'

It was not until 15 days after the attack that detectives realised the Skripals and Nick Bailey had come into contact with Novichok when it was sprayed on the door handle of the former spy's home.

Mr Bailey said: 'I didn't understand how it had happened, scared because it's the fear of the unknown because it's such a dangerous thing to have in your system.

'Knowing how the other two [Yulia and Sergei Skripal] were or how badly they'd been affected by it, I was petrified.

A specially made model of the counterfeit 'Nina Ricci' perfume bottle, released by police tonight as they continue to appeal for information about the attempted assassination

Wiltshire Police officer Nick Bailey (pictured) said he had suffered an 'emotional battering' after he was accidentally caught up in the attempted murder of Sergei Skripal

Russian poison bottle 'had enough Novichok to kill thousands' The detective leading the Salisbury investigation has said the Novichok bottle had enough poison to kill thousands of people. Deputy Assistant Commissioner Dean Haydon said: 'We started off with not knowing anything at all so it was like looking for a needle in a haystack. 'But actually at that stage we didn't even have a haystack so we had to build the data from literally the start.' 'We had seized over 11,000 hours of CCTV, that was a massive task. We were sifting through the CCTV and we had a kind of gotcha moment of we identified the attackers. 'We were now onto them. I don't think they expected to be captured on CCTV in the way that they were.' 'When we found it there was a significant amount of Novichok contained within the bottle.' Asked how many people it could have killed he said: 'It's difficult to say, you know, possibly into the thousands 'The amount that was in the bottle and the way it was applied to the Skripals home address was completely reckless.'

'I don't know whether, if it's gone through the gloves, I don't know whether I could have adjusted my face mask and my goggles whilst I was in the house with it being on my hand.

'It's such an outrageous, dangerous way of doing something that it angered me as well because any number of people could have been affected by that.'

Describing his time in intensive care, he said: 'I was conscious, throughout the whole time.

'It was painful at the beginning. I had lots of injections. I had five or six infusions at any one time in my arms.

'One of the Skripals was in the room right next to me. It was all guarded by the police.'

Last night police released further footage of the two men and a model of the counterfeit perfume bottle used to target the Skripals.

One clip shows Alexander Petrov and Ruslan Boshirov arriving at Salisbury railway station while another shows them walking past a petrol station near Mr Skripal's home.

Police are still urging the public to come forward with any information and warned people not to handle potentially dangerous unknown objects.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Dean Haydon said: 'We remain as determined as ever to identify and bring to justice all those responsible for the reckless acts that left four people critically ill and, tragically, saw Dawn Sturgess lose her life.

Alexander Petrov (pictured right) has now been revealed as Dr Alexander Mishkin. Ruslan Boshirov (pictured left) was revealed two weeks ago as Colonel Anatoliy Chepiga

'We are progressing a number of active lines of enquiry but one of the key things we are still to identify is where the counterfeit perfume bottle was between the time we think it was discarded on the afternoon of 4 March, to when Charlie Rowley says he found it on 27 June.

'If you think you saw the pink box or bottle anywhere in the Salisbury area during that time, then please get in touch with us.'

Warning of a possible continued danger, police said: 'Despite meticulous and painstaking searches, and although unlikely, it is impossible to guarantee that there are no other materials present in the Salisbury area.

'As such, we continue to repeat the advice from Public Health England; that people should not pick up items which do not belong to them.'

In the BBC programme investigators speak to scientists and police involved in the investigation, along with DS Bailey and a friend of Dawn Sturgess who died months later, after she and partner Charlie Rowley came in contact with the nerve agent in a perfume bottle.

Mr Bailey told the programme: 'I was in absolute shock when I heard about what happened to these two people and my heart goes out to Dawn and her family because I was able to walk out of hospital and sadly she wasn't.'

An aerial view of police on the scene in Salisbury as forensic investigators looked for clues in the aftermath of the attack on Sergei and Yulia Skripal

Korobov was reportedly blamed for the response to the deaths of Sergey Skripal and his daughter Yulia who were poisoned by the chemical agent novichok in Salisbury in March

Officers wearing chemical protection suits secure the forensic tent over the bench where the former Soviet spy fell ill

Asked if Mr Bailey should have been better protected, Wiltshire Police Deputy Chief Constable Paul Mills said: 'I guess hindsight's a wonderful thing.

'The emergency services, they will respond to what's in front of them.

'Unless there's something obvious which would indicate that actually they should be wearing personal protective equipment which gives them that higher level of protection, then we take things as we find them.'

A scientist at the Government's Defence Science and Technology Laboratory at Porton Down has also spoken about the moment he identified the Novichok.

Professor Tim, whose surname cannot be revealed for security reasons, said: 'It was a jaw dropping moment.

'I went through a number of emotions from disbelief to anger. It's one of the most dangerous substances known. It's quite unique in its ability to poison individuals at very low concentrations.'

In September Theresa May revealed that two Russian nationals had been identified as suspects over the attack.

British spy agencies concluded the men, who travelled to the UK under the aliases of Alexander Petrov and Ruslan Boshirov, were officers for Russian military intelligence unit the GRU.

The Prime Minister described the agency as a 'highly disciplined organisation with a well-established chain of command'.

Following a widely-dismissed television denial, in which the pair claimed they were simply tourists visiting the cathedral city, their 'real' identities were revealed weeks later.

Dawn Sturgess, left, who died following exposure to the nerve agent, and her partner Charlie Rowley, right

What is the Novichok nerve agent used against the Skripals? Novichok was secretly developed by the Soviet Union during the height of the Cold war in the 1970s and 1980s. Communist scientists developed the poison so it would not be able to be detected by Nato's chemical detection equipment. They come in the form of a ultra-fine powder, Novichok is up to eight times more potent than the deadly VX gas. Victims who are poisoned by the powder suffer muscle spasms, breathing problems and then cardiac arrest. There is a known antidote to the nerve agent - atropine can block the poison. But doctors find it very tricky to administer the antidote because the dose would have to be so high it could prove fatal for the person.

Investigative website Bellingcat said it had established Boshirov's true identity, reporting he was actually Colonel Anatoliy Chepiga, a highly decorated officer in the GRU.

Bellingcat later said Petrov's real identity was Alexander Mishkin, a military doctor in the GRU.

Both men had been awarded the Hero of the Russian Federation from Mr Putin, the investigators said.

The Bellingcat claims followed the president's assertion that the men were civilians and had been discounted as members of his security network.

Mr Skripal was given refuge in the UK in 2010 after a 'spy-swap' which saw 10 Russian sleeper agents expelled from the United States.

Accused of acting as a double agent after leaving the GRU in 1999, he was serving a 13-year prison sentence for allegedly working for MI6.

Russia has continuously denied attempting to kill him.

Panorama's investigation comes as the head of Russian military intelligence, which stands accused over the fatal Salisbury Novichok attack, has died.

General Colonel Igor Korobov had suffered a 'serious and long illness' and died on Wednesday, the Russian Defence Ministry told the state-backed Tass news agency.

CCTV image of Russian nationals Dr Alexander Mishkin (right) and Anatoliy Chepiga (left), pictured in Salisbury

General Colonel Igor Korobov (pictured), the chief of Russia's spy agency has died - weeks after he collapsed following a dressing down from Vladimir Putin

The 63-year-old was hailed as a 'true son of Russia' and had led the Main Directorate of the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces - also known as the GRU - for several years.

The agency is believed to be Russia's largest foreign intelligence outfit, with agents deployed all over the world, and is suspected of using cyber warfare and disinformation campaigns to achieve its goals.

Panorama: Salisbury Nerve Agent Attack – The Inside Story, is on tonight at 8pm, BBC One

Now looking even more shaky... The 'farcical' RT interview that saw the would-be assassins claim they were innocent civilians Revelations about the military background of Colonel Anatoliy Vladimirovich Chepiga make the interview he gave to RT in September alongside the second suspected assassin Alexander Petrov appear even more farcical. Observers quickly pointed out a number of gaping holes in their story, including: The 'accidental' visit to Skripal's home CCTV released by police places the two suspects at Sergei Skripal's suburban house. Today the men admitted they may have ended up there - but claimed it was an accident. The property, which had Novichok smeared on the door, is 25 minutes away from the city centre and its cathedral - which the men said they were there to see. Ruslan Boshirov said: 'Maybe we passed it, or maybe we didn't. I'd never heard about them before this nightmare started. I'd never heard this name before. I didn't know anything about them'. The hotel 127 miles from Salisbury Alexander Petrov and Ruslan Boshirov were guests at the City Stay Hotel in Bow, East London, before poisoning Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia. The Metropolitan Police confirmed today that 'low' levels of the nerve agent were found in the two-star £48 a night hotel in May. The men chose a spot some distance from Waterloo - the main rail route to Salisbury - despite making the Wiltshire city the focus of their visit. It is 127 miles from Salisbury. The 'bad' weather Alexander Petrov and Ruslan Boshirov claimed that they only stayed in Salisbury because of heavy snow. The pair visited days after the Beast from the East hit Britain bringing unseasonably cold weather. Describing the condition Boshirov said: 'It was impossible to get anywhere because of the snow. We were drenched up to our knees'. But CCTV pictures of the men shows the pavements were largely clear of snow. They also told RT that it snowed in the city that afternoon, but weather maps from that day show sunshine and clear skies. The missing luggage The men went straight from Salisbury to Heathrow for the evening flight. But CCTV suggested that they did not have any luggage with them on their way home.

====== 2387 ========

BRITISH WOMAN, 60, WHO SPENT HER £90,000 LIFE SAVINGS ON SRI LANKAN TOYBOY RETURNS TO UK

A British woman who was left stranded in Sri Lanka after her toy boy husband was murdered has finally returned home - without a penny to her name.

Diane De Zoysa, 60, spent her entire £90,000 life savings on her husband Priyanjana De Zoysa, 26, but now admits that he 'obviously didn't love her'.

She sold her home in Musselburgh, East Lothian, two years ago, using the cash to build a house in Sri Lanka and buy her husband a minibus in Ahungalla, south of the capital Colombo.

Priyanjana was killed by gangsters last year, leaving Diane stranded in the country and she finally landed at Edinburgh Airport on Tuesday night after a 20-hour journey.

Diane De Zoysa, 60, has finally returned to the UK (pictured at Edinburgh airport) after being stranded in Sri Lanka

Speaking about her husband's death, Diane said that she was left stranded, with Priyanjana's family keeping her 'under house arrest', refusing to let her sell her house and demanding cash from her pension.

She told the Daily Record: 'I just couldn't stay there any longer. I kind of feel stupid now that I didn't listen to my family and my friends because they said it was just about the money.

'I thought he did really love me but obviously he didn't.

'My husband's family virtually had me under house arrest for two years. I couldn't go anywhere – not even to the beach.'

Diane paid £57,000 for the house, which was built close to her husband’s family home and a further £31,000 for a minibus for him to drive as employment.

She said she managed to get away from her husband's family and stay with some friends.

Diane spent her entire £90,000 life savings on her husband Priyanjana De Zoysa, 26, but now admits that he 'obviously didn't love her'

She added that she invested all she had into the move and still owes £4000 on her credit card.

She now says that she will try and rebuild her life after returning to Scotland.

Former council worker Diane admits she can't live on her pension and will contact her local council and a lawyer to see if they can help her.

She also suspects her husband had a second wife after she found some paperwork in his personal belongings.

She said that she sold her home in Musselburgh, East Lothian, two years ago, using the cash to build a house in Sri Lanka and buy her husband a minibus

She initially met husband Priyanjana while on holiday in 2011, enjoying a whirlwind romance with the hotel worker.

Diane ended up marrying him after returning to Sri Lanka seven months later, before moving to the country full-time in 2015.

However, she has previously described how she believes that the marriage was all about the money.

Speaking to MailOnline, she said: 'I should have realised it was just about the money. My friends thought that he was just marrying me for the money.

She had initially met husband Priyanjana while on holiday in 2011, enjoying a whirlwind romance with the hotel worker

'Once I came out here he wanted money all the time.'

Diane revealed her family and friends were concerned about their relationship - but she wanted to 'prove them wrong'.

She said: 'All my friends didn't think it was a good idea. But I really loved him and I thought he really loved me and I wanted to prove them wrong.

'I've never loved anybody the way I loved him. He was always affectionate to me. He was desperate for me to move out here.'

Priyanjana died after being shot by gangsters last May and his family refused to help Diane sell the house that she had bought for him

Priyanjana died after being shot three times in May last year.

Diane previously explained how she believes her husband was killed by men trying to extort him for cash.she said: 'His friend told me they were jealous because he was rich. They were jealous because he had a nice a house, a minibus and a tuk-tuk.

'They blackmailed him. He did give them some money but they wanted more. Because they didn't give him more, they shot him. They must have gone looking for him.'

====== 2388 ========

MARRIED TORY MP WHO BOMBARDED BARMAIDS WITH SLEAZY TEXTS WILL FACE NO ACTION

A disgraced MP who bombarded two barmaids with sexually explicit text messages will face no disciplinary action due to his ill health, it was announced yesterday.

Married Andrew Griffiths, 48, suggested a variety of depraved acts – including violence – in more than 2,000 messages to the women from his constituency.

He sent the texts, in which he referred to himself as ‘Daddy’, just weeks after his wife Kate, 47, had given birth to their long-awaited first child.

Married Andrew Griffiths, 48, suggested a variety of depraved acts – including violence – in more than 2,000 messages to the women from his constituency

Mr Griffiths later blamed his actions on mental health problems and said his behaviour stemmed from abuse he suffered as a child. And late yesterday afternoon, the Conservatives announced that would excuse him from any punishment.

The Tory investigation concluded Mr Griffiths may have breached the party’s code of conduct. But it said further action would be inappropriate ‘given his state of mental health, both now and at the time’.

News that he will escape sanction was met with fury in his constituency of Burton in Staffordshire, where he has been seen just once since the scandal.

Deneice Florence-Jukes, an independent councillor on East Staffordshire Borough Council, said it amounted to a ‘get out of jail free card’.

Mr Griffiths was investigated by the Tory party after she accused him of bullying and inappropriate touching at a fundraising ball.

Others accused the Tory party of cynical timing, given the announcement was released on a crucial Brexit day.

Mrs Florence-Jukes said: ‘The findings of the Tory investigation into a fellow Tory comes as no surprise particularly when you consider the Government is literally hanging on by a thread. So every seat counts, no matter what the cost.

‘Of serious concern is that this amounts to a virtual “get out of jail free card” for Griffiths for evermore.

Mr Griffiths stood down as minister for small business in July after details of the messages sent to barmaid Imogen Treharne, 28, above, and her unnamed friend were published

‘Shamefully, we now have an MP whose party not only excuses his deplorable behaviour but actually endorses it.

‘This man continues to be accountable to no one, least of all us, the electorate.’

Mr Griffiths is the latest in a string of MPs who have talked about their ill health when facing disciplinary probes.

An investigation into whether shamed Labour MP Keith Vaz broke rules by paying male prostitutes was suspended for months after he said he was sick.

It was reopened when it emerged Mr Vaz had visited India and Saudi Arabia as well as carrying out constituency visits.

And action against Labour’s Jared O’Mara over abusive comments made on social media was delayed eight months after he was forced to step back from duties on the advice of his GP. Mr O’Mara was eventually reinstated by the party but resigned.

Mr Griffiths stood down as minister for small business in July after details of the messages sent to barmaid Imogen Treharne, 28, and her unnamed friend were published.

He also faced calls to stand down as an MP after it emerged he had sent the pair £700 for X-rated pictures and videos and asked them to tie each other up. In one message, he told how he could be an ‘evil ******* when I’m turned on’. Another said: ‘I just wish my little girl was sat on my knee. With those big t*** in my face.’

In an interview with the Sunday Times, he claimed he did not even remember sending some of the messages. He has not said if he will stay on as MP at the next election.

Andrew Griffiths MP with his wife Kate and baby Alice. He sent the texts, in which he referred to himself as ‘Daddy’, just weeks after his wife Kate, 47, had given birth to their long-awaited first child

The East Staffordshire Conservatives said its prospective parliamentary candidate selection process had been suspended by Conservative party officials, but would be reviewed in the New Year. A House of Commons investigation is continuing.

Conor Wileman, chairman of East Staffordshire Conservatives, said Mr Griffiths’ health status was being taken ‘extremely seriously’ while he continued to seek treatment.

‘We are therefore in an incredibly difficult position because whilst we want to get on with our selection process as soon as possible, when the evidence suggests someone is unwell, we also have a moral duty to ensure that such a process is sympathetic to that person’s recovery.’

A Conservative Party spokesman said a panel chaired by an independent QC concluded that the MP’s conduct was a potential breach of the party’s code but taking further action would be inappropriate given his health.

====== 2389 ========

BRITAIN'S ROADS ARE 'NOT MADE SAFER BY 20MPH ZONES'

The spread of 20mph zones across the country has failed to make the roads any safer, according to an official report.

A damning four-year study commissioned by the Government has found there has been no significant reduction in accidents in areas where the lower speed limit has been introduced.

It concluded that the average speed has fallen by just 0.7mph in 20mph zones in residential areas and by 0.9mph in such zones in city centres.

Researchers have found that newly installed 20mph zones in residential areas have not improved road safety

Town halls have spent millions reducing speed limits to improve both road safety and air quality as well as encouraging people to use bicycles

Almost half (47 per cent) of drivers are routinely breaking the 20mph limit, with 35 per cent ignoring it in city centres. But this rises to 94 per cent on roads where motorists typically drove faster than 24mph before the new limit was introduced.

Town halls have spent millions setting up tougher speed limits in an attempt to improve road safety, cut air pollution and boost health by encouraging people to walk and cycle.

But the Department for Transport report suggests 20mph zones are having little or no impact on all counts.

It analysed data from 12 areas before and after 20mph zones were set up, using sat-nav systems on cars and interviewing drivers and local residents.

It focused largely on zones where only the new speed limit signs had been put up, rather than those with ‘traffic calming measures’ such as speed bumps and chicanes. Parts of Walsall, Winchester, Liverpool, Brighton, Middlesbrough, Portsmouth and Chichester were among those included in the study. With the exception of Brighton, there has been ‘no significant change in the short term in collisions and casualties’, the report concluded.

Lack of enforcement by police was a key reason so many motorists ignored 20mph limits, according to drivers.

The study found there was a ‘widespread view among the public’ that the ‘likelihood of being caught exceeding the limit is very small’.

The report also found that almost all residents had not walked or cycled any more since 20mph zones were introduced. They have cost anywhere between £10,000 and £1.7million each, according to the DfT. Edmund King, president of the AA, said the report has vindicated the reservations of motorists about 20mph zones.

He said: ‘Speed limits need to reflect the nature of the road so that drivers can easily understand why the limit is set.

‘We believe that targeted 20mph limits work best on roads where there is an obvious need: outside schools, hospitals or where older and other vulnerable road users are likely to be encountered. Limits are more effective when accompanied by road engineering features.’

A DfT spokesman said: ‘The study found 20mph limits have a role to play in improving road safety and, while decisions on speed limits are a matter for councils, it is good to see they are supported by the majority of residents and drivers.’

====== 2390 ========

TOMMY ROBINSON GETS UKIP JOB TO ADVISE ON RAPE GANGS AND PRISON CONDITIONS

Far-right leader Tommy Robinson has been appointed a 'special adviser' to UKIP on rape gangs and prison conditions.

Robinson, 35, who was jailed and then freed this year after allegedly jeopardising the trial of a gang of child abusers with a live Facebook video, will work as an aide of UKIP leader Gerard Batten.

Senior UKIP figures have clashed over Robinson's potential role in the party, with ex-leader Nigel Farage warning it faced 'total and utter marginalisation' if it allowed the EDL founder into the movement.

Robinson - whose real name is Stephen Yaxley-Lennon - is not yet a member of the party.

Tommy Robinson is pictured with UKIP leader Gerard Batten, who has appointed him as a special adviser to the party on the issues of rape gangs and prison conditions

Mr Batten said in a statement tonight: 'I have appointed Tommy Robinson to be a Personal Special Advisor on two subjects which he has great knowledge.

'It is not necessary for him to be a Party member in order to assist me in this role. I am looking forward to working with him'.

Mr Batten, the Eurosceptic party's seventh leader in two years, has previously spoken out in support of Robinson.

In September he said: 'I think he's an incredibly brave man who has stood up for ordinary people and victims of abuse.

'I think he is rash sometimes in what he does but that's offset by his terrific courage in the cause that he's trying to defend.'

Another ex-leader, Lord Pearson, spoke at the party conference to praise 'my friend Tommy Robinson', saying he would be a 'huge asset to UKIP'.

Robinson, 35, was jailed and then freed this year after allegedly jeopardising the trial of a gang of child abusers with a live Facebook video in Leeds (pictured)

He said: 'His reach, particularly with our white working class, is second to none and he has been brave enough to talk about this, to talk about Islam as it really is.'

But Mr Farage, who was UKIP leader at the time of the Brexit referendum, had said he was 'really upset' over suggestions the party could allow Robinson to become a member.

Robinson was cheered by hundreds of supporters outside the Old Bailey after his most recent hearing over contempt of court allegations was adjourned.

He had been jailed over a live broadcast outside Leeds Crown Court that was alleged to have risked serious prejudice to one of the linked Huddersfield grooming trials.

The judge had made an order postponing reports of the trial until it had finished, to avoid jurors being influenced by what they had read about other cases.

On May 25, Robinson live streamed a video from outside the main public entrance to the court in Leeds used by jurors and defendants, before he was arrested.

He was sentenced to 13 months in jail, but the Court of Appeal quashed his conviction saying the decision to jail him within five hours of his arrest 'gave rise to unfairness' and ignored court rules.

Robinson was released from prison in August and granted conditional bail. The case has now been referred to the Attorney General.

The grooming gang, who targeted vulnerable girls as young as eleven in Huddersfield, were jailed for a combined total of more than 220 years.

In victim statements the girls described coming into contact with the abusers after being bullied at school and said the relationship became 'one of those things that you couldn't get out of'.

====== 2391 ========

UAE CAN BUY THE WORLD, BUT THEY CAN’T BUY OUR SILENCE OVER INJUSTICE OF BRITISH ACADEMIC OF 'SPYING'

At first glance, the behaviour of the United Arab Emirates over the British so-called spy Matthew Hedges is baffling. The charge of espionage against the Durham University research student appears as grotesque as the life sentence he was given by the court.

And what makes this case all the more extraordinary is that the UAE – a federation of seven monarchies – has long-established friendly relations with this country.

Hundreds of thousands of British tourists flock there every year, drawn by the duty-free high-end shopping and the permanent sunshine.

Moreover, in a country of just eight million people there are more than 100,000 British expatriates, many of them working in hospitality, medicine, construction and even security.

The ties between our nations are mirrored in a host of other ways, including the popularity of the Emirates airline with British travellers, or the regular visits by the Prince of Wales and the Duke of York.

The infamous quip by former foreign secretary Boris Johnson that London is ‘the eighth Emirate’ certainly contained an element of truth.

Daniela Tejada reads a statement to reporters outside the Foreign Office in London after meeting with Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt to discuss her husbands jail sentence

That relationship – now threatened by the cruel treatment of Matthew Hedges – reflects the history of the Emirates, whose geographic position still makes them far more important than their size on the map suggests.

Their strategic location in the Middle East, at the heart of Britain’s vital trade route to its Empire’s key trading centres in Asia, meant the Royal Navy guarded the Gulf ports for a century before oil was discovered – making them even more valuable – in the twentieth century.

The federation gained independence from Britain in 1971, but the intimate connection has remained, especially in security and defence.

Apart from purchasing plenty of BAE weapons, around 200 British servicemen and women are permanently based there. The UAE’s armed services and security police get equipment and know-how from us, while the Port Zayed is the most visited Royal Navy port in the world.

With so many security contacts already in situ, I find the idea that the British government would rely on a PhD student to poke around for the Emiratis’ deepest secrets absurd. Indeed, the Foreign Secretary has broken protocol on intelligence matters to state that Matthew Hedges is not an MI6 agent.

Matthew Hedges with his wife Daniela Tejada. The British academic accused of spying in the United Arab Emirates was sentenced to life imprisonment in a five-minute hearing at an Abu Dhabi court on Wednesday

This strange episode is perhaps more explicable in the context of the UAE’s true political nature and its role in the Middle East.

The image of the country as a beacon of pro-Western, tolerant and progressive attitudes is an illusion that is sedulously cultivated by its rulers and their spin machine.

Yes, it is true that Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed, who holds the real power in the land, has pioneered many superficial changes to give the UAE a modern image. He has opened up tourism, encouraged foreign investment, diversified from dependency on oil and hosted rock concerts and Formula One.

But the reality is that, beyond the soaring skyscrapers and fashionable cultural events, the UAE is still a profoundly reactionary despotism, run by a hereditary elite which refuses to accept political dissent or real democracy. Western values such as freedom of speech or, as Mr Hedges discovered, due process under the law, are wholly absent.

In place of pluralism, there is paranoia, with the royal family utterly terrified of losing its authority. Paradoxically, the huge size of the foreign population in the UAE – just 8 per cent of residents are Emiratis – feeds this climate of brutal institutionalised distrust, where much of the public is viewed with suspicion. As a result, the UAE leaders – with the help of the CIA – have invested millions of dollars in surveillance technology to keep the citizenry under control.

A key target in this crackdown is the Muslim Brotherhood, the radical movement that seeks to replace Middle Eastern monarchies with Islamic republics. The UAE government’s intense hostility to the Brotherhood may partly explain why Mr Hedges was targeted, since he was reportedly researching the part played by this organisation in the Arab Spring.

After a ‘very, very scared’ Mr Hedges was convicted of being an MI6 spy, Mr Hunt had condemned the ‘totally unacceptable’ verdict and threatened ‘serious consequences’ against the UAE

Given that the 2011 revolutions in Middle Eastern countries were largely directed against family rule, anything connected with it was bound to raise the hackles of the UAE regime. In the totalitarian Emirates, there is no understanding of Western students being free to choose their own subjects and research them.

There is a parallel here with the tragic Jamal Khashoggi, the investigative journalist who was recently murdered by the Saudi Arabian regime at its embassy in Istanbul. The Saudis accused him of being a spy for the Muslim Brotherhood.

It is no coincidence that Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are close allies.

Both ruled by their crown princes, both rich through oil, they are consumed by fears of internal and external threats to their dictatorships. Each is an enemy of Iran, their biggest regional rival, and this fact, too, could also have played its part in the Hedges saga.

This year US President Donald Trump scrapped a controversial deal with Iran to restrict its nuclear programme and reinstated tough economic sanctions – a move that has been opposed by the British Government and that may have fuelled the UAE’s disillusionment with its old friend.

Daniela Tejada arriving at Heathrow Airport from the UAE after her husband was jailed

More importantly, Saudi Arabia and the UAE have been waging a brutal war in Yemen, where the rebels are supporters of Iran.

Our Government’s recent condemnation of this military campaign, based on both its barbarity and the famine it has caused, has provoked the anger of both Saudi Arabia and the UAE, which claim to be acting in the defence of their own vital national interests.

Indeed, the UAE’s rulers have proved keen to flex their military muscles, even intervening in the tribal conflict in Libya. They have the wealth and, thanks partly to British weapons and military expertise, the capability to throw their weight around abroad and at home.

The case of Mr Hedges could be a further indicator that the UAE will no longer be a compliant ally of the

West, refuses to be taken for granted and is going to set its own rules.

Mr Hedges’s wife, Daniela Tejada, has complained that the Foreign Office has not handled the imprisonment of her husband with sufficient robustness, trusting in Britain’s historic connection to the UAE and reluctance to cause any embarrassment.

But the UAE, which does not perhaps care as much about Britain as our diplomats believe, had no such hesitations – and the personal consequences have been felt all too horribly by the couple.

I believe Mr Hedges is the victim of a gross injustice, driven by regional politics and the determination of the Emirates to send a chilling message to dissidents at home and abroad.

The crucial question is what will Britain do now? Mr Trump has provided one possible course. In his response to the Khashoggi case, he stated explicitly that however heinous the crime, realpolitik will prevail because Saudi Arabia is such a valuable ally of the US, particularly through its purchase of weaponry and planes.

The commercial needs of America will not be undermined by outrage over the murder of a journalist, even one who had made his life in the US.

Al Wathba prison is the notorious Abu Dhabi jail where it is feared Matthew Hedges will be sent after he was sentenced to life in prison for 'spying' in the UAE

But it would be impossible for Theresa May’s Government to follow this line. The public would rightly not tolerate such indifference to one of our own citizens. That kind of surrender to brutality would be intolerable.

The right moral course is clear for Mrs May and Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt. Their task is made all the more difficult because they are already trying to win the release of Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, a British-Iranian dual-national who has been imprisoned in Iran since 2016. Perhaps Mr Hunt will pull off a diplomatic coup by getting both of them released, but I am not optimistic.

The mood has been ugly and paranoid in these Middle Eastern regimes since the Arab Spring, while our influence is in decline. However, the Government must not stop trying.

The Emiratis’ money can buy many things here, but it should not buy silence about Mr Hedges’ unjust fate.

Arab jailers dangle prospect of appeal or pardon after wife says: We didn’t even get to say goodbye

By Sam Greenhill, Claire Ellicott and George Odling

A young academic jailed as a British spy was offered a glimmer of hope yesterday as Arab rulers dangled the prospect of clemency.

In the face of furious UK threats, Gulf leaders held out the olive branch of an ‘amicable solution’ for Matthew Hedges after he was sentenced to life in prison on Wednesday.

Last night his wife, Daniela Tejada, was said to be ‘hopeful but cautious’. She spoke of the ‘beyond heartbreaking’ moment she watched her 31-year-old husband being pronounced guilty in a five-minute hearing in an Abu Dhabi courtroom, adding: ‘We didn’t even get to say goodbye.’

No boycott, minister warns colleges Academics in Britain must not boycott the United Arab Emirates, the universities minister urged yesterday. Sam Gyimah warned universities that cutting ties with the country risks harming our ‘ability to positively influence’ its future leaders. He said student exchange programmes must continue to ‘facilitate a change of outlook’ and show overseas youngsters what a ‘fully functioning democracy’ looks like. His comments come after staff at Birmingham University voted for an academic boycott of its campus in the UAE over the affair. The Birmingham action means lecturers based in the Midlands will refuse to teach in Dubai and will not provide the campus with any academic support, such as course materials and marking exams. In addition, the University College Union (UCU), which represents academics across the country, has urged institutions to ‘seek stronger assurances’ on treatment of staff before committing them to travel. However, yesterday, Mr Gyimah said that, while the case was extremely worrying, academic boycotts may not be the answer. He said: ‘It’s an incredibly tragic story and I am pleased to see that the Foreign Office is using all the available levers available to intervene on behalf of this graduate. We’ve got to be cautious. ‘But student exchange is one of those things that should always go on. I think that even where you have countries where you might have profound policy disagreements, one of the issues that can actually help facilitate a change of outlook in ideas is student exchange programmes. ‘It worked during the Cold War, I don’t see why it can’t work now.’

Miss Tejada accused the Foreign Office of failing to help Durham University PhD student Mr Hedges for six months, following his arrest in Dubai on May 5 after he had interviewed sources for his thesis on security policies in the Gulf.

In an excoriating interview, she claimed the UK government prized relations with the United Arab Emirates (UAE) over her helpless husband – who had been held in solitary confinement for six months and forced to sign a confession while British officials shrugged that it was ‘not our job’ to intervene.

But last night after meeting Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt, Miss Tejada, 27, softened her tone and thanked him for ‘now standing up’ for Mr Hedges and doing everything to get him home.

Earlier Mr Hunt had summoned the UAE’s ambassador in London for a ‘very frank’ dressing down.

On Wednesday, after a ‘very, very scared’ Mr Hedges was convicted of being an MI6 spy, Mr Hunt had condemned the ‘totally unacceptable’ verdict and threatened ‘serious consequences’ against the UAE.

Yesterday the Gulf state denied Mr Hedges had faced a ‘kangaroo court’ and insisted the evidence he was engaged in espionage for the UK was strong.

But in a significant climbdown, its authoritarian rulers also raised the possibility of clemency or a successful court appeal, stressing this ‘sentence is not final’.

Abdulla Al Naqbi, head of legal affairs at the UAE foreign ministry, said the Briton had a chance to appeal and also ‘the right to appeal for presidential clemency’, adding that the UAE was ‘determined to protect its important strategic relationship’ with Britain. He added: ‘Both sides hope to find an amicable solution to the case.’

By chance, UAE National Day falls next Thursday, traditionally a day when pardons are granted.

A Whitehall source said it was ‘interesting’ the word clemency had been used, while Mr Hunt tweeted of having held ‘a constructive conversation’ by phone with the UAE foreign minister Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed. He said: ‘I believe and trust he’s working hard to resolve the situation ASAP.’

The Emiratis insisted yesterday that Mr Hedges ‘has been treated fairly’. Mr Al Naqbi said ‘compelling and powerful evidence was presented in court that included information extracted from his personal electronic devices’ as well as ‘Mr Hedges’ own confession’.

He claimed it was ‘not true’ the academic had been made to sign documents he did not understand.

Yesterday Colombian-born Miss Tejada, who married Mr Hedges last year, broke down as she told Radio 4’s Today programme: ‘I imagine he is just as distraught as I am.’

She said he only got to see a British consular officer after ‘six weeks of intensive interrogation’, adding that the Foreign Office ‘just disregarded my requests’.

Last night Daniela Tejada spoke of the ‘beyond heartbreaking’ moment she watched her husband being pronounced guilty in a five-minute hearing in an Abu Dhabi courtroom

Miss Tejada claimed: ‘They said it wasn’t part of their job… they were not obliged to make representations. I was under the impression that they were putting their interests with the UAE above the rights of a British citizen’s rightful freedom and welfare. They were stepping on eggshells instead of taking a firm stance.’

But later, after she had met Mr Hunt at the Foreign Office for an hour, she admitted, ‘This is not a fight I can win alone’, and thanked the Foreign Office ‘for now standing up for one of their citizens’.

Miss Tejada said: ‘We really appreciate all the positive support that has been shown to Matt. Seeing him shaking in court after being handed a life sentence and then being made to leave was beyond heartbreaking. We didn’t even get to say goodbye.

‘I really appreciate the Foreign Secretary taking the time to meet me. He has assured me that he and his team are doing everything in their power to get Matt free and return him home to me.’

====== 2392 ========

TERRORISM LEADS PURSUED BY MI5 AND ANTI-TERROR POLICE HAVE MORE THAN DOUBLED IN LAST YEAR

Victims called on the government to 'take the gloves off' when dealing with terrorists and the internet companies that help them after a report found a series of failures ahead of last year's terror attacks.

Parliament's Intelligence and Security Committee said social media websites were being used as a 'safe haven' by extremists and called for an advertising boycott.

They also uncovered failings in how terrorists were handled by authorities, including how Manchester bomber Salman Abedi was allowed to visit an extremist in prison and travel back and forth to Libya before he killed 22 concert-goers.

Victims of the Manchester attack called for stronger action in the wake of the report.

Dan Hett, whose brother Martyn was killed in the attack, said: 'Of course we understand that mistakes will sometimes be made but the litany of mistakes in 2017 must urgently be learnt from.

'As survivors we echo the importance of social media companies playing a more active part in combating terror. We urge the government to take the gloves off in addressing their roles both as a safe haven and as a platform for spreading hate.'

Salman Abedi (left) went to see Abdalraouf Abdallah (right) who was jailed after trying to help other Manchester-based fanatics join extremists in Syria

Medics treat the injured after the suicide bombing at the Manchester Arena in May 2017

The report found:

Internet firms are failing to remove extremist material from the web and should do more to help authorities tackle terrorism.

Prisons need to be more alive to potential extremism among inmates.

The Home Office has failed to hand over key documents relating to the asylum seeker who set off a bomb in Parsons Green.

Chances to catch the Manchester bomber were missed.

Delays in identifying suspects and getting foreign documents translated can hamper investigations.

Manchester bomber Salman Abedi, 22, visited a category A extremist inmate in prison - previously identified as ISIS recruiter Abdalraouf Abdallah - but 'no follow up action was taken', the report found.

The report found police had not alerted prison authorities about the risk posed by Abdallah, meaning his visitors were not security checked.

Counter-terror police were also alerted to Abedi frequently travelling to Libya from 2014 onwards but he was not made the subject of travel restrictions or monitoring.

Abedi's case was also flagged for review, but was not re-examined before he slaughtered parents and children at the Ariana Grande concert, today's report found.

Dan Hett (left), whose brother Martyn (right) died in the Manchester attack, called for tougher action against social media companies who help extremists spread hate

After the report was published, Martin Hibbert, who was injured in the blast, tweeted: 'It is heartbreaking and very frustrating when you see what [Abedi] was doing and where he was travelling to weeks before the bomb.

'We've known this for a while now and it's good to see people now admitting failings and mistakes were made.'

Robby Potter, who narrowly avoided death when shrapnel from the bomb struck his heart, told the BBC he was considering legal action against MI5, adding: 'I'd have more respect for them if they had said immediately after "we made a mistake - we underestimated this man".

Robby Potter (left) is pictured with his wife Leonora Ogerio. The couple were waiting for their children after the concert. Mr Potter was just a millimetre from death after a nut was shot through his heart, while Miss Ogerio's legs were fractured in the explosion

'I love my country but I was let down. This could have been stopped, and we're finding out now that it should have been stopped.'

ISC chairman Dominic Grieve said: 'What we can say is that there were a number of failures in the handling of Salman Abedi's case and, while it is impossible to say whether these would have prevented the devastating attack, we have concluded that, as a result of the failings, potential opportunities to prevent it were missed.'

Mr Grieve noted that both MI5 and counter-terror police have been 'thorough in their desire to learn from past mistakes', adding: 'The lessons from last year's tragic events must now result in real action.'

MI5 has accepted it 'moved too slowly' to review Abedi's case after an investigation into him was dropped in 2014.

Khalid Masood (pictured, left) murdered Pc Keith Palmer (right) in last year's Westminster terror attack. He was known to MI5 before the attack

Masood is shot outside Parliament. The report found it took weeks to identify him after his phone number was handed to authorities

The terrorist regularly went to see Abdalraouf Abdallah, who was jailed after trying to help other Manchester-based fanatics join extremists in Syria.

Despite this, Abedi was not considered for a referral to the Prevent anti-terror scheme, MPs revealed.

Thirty-six people died in five terror attacks on UK soil last year, with four striking the capital, prompting today's Parliamentary report.

MPs hit out at 'fundamental failings' in the handling of the case of Parsons Green bomber Ahmed Hassan, and delays by the Home Office in handing over information, prompting a separate review in his case.

Officers shot the attackers dead during their rampage through London Bridge and Borough Market in south-east London last year

One of the three men who carried out the London Bridge attacks had been under investigation

