It is believed the SpaceX suit was designed by Marvel and DC movie legend Jose Fernandez.

A flight on Boeing spacecraft is set to follow in August 2019.

It is believed the SpaceX suit was designed by Marvel and DC movie legend Jose Fernandez.

Musk has previously admitted that it is 'incredibly hard' to balance the look and its function.

It features accents and lines that make it more stylish than current designs.

It also appears to be more tight-fitting than anything NASA has produced.

Mayn have pointed out the suits look remarkably similar the the Stoomtroopers from the Star Wars movies

The suit will be worn by NASA astronauts for the commercial crew program when SpaceX starts launching people to and from the International Space Station.

Last year, Musk revealed that he had contacted Fernandez to create a space suit.

SpaceX will use its Falcon 9 rocket for its launch with a Crew Dragon capsule attached on top.

The capsule measures about 20 feet tall by 12 feet in diameter, and will carry up to 7 astronauts at a time.

The Crew Dragon features an advanced emergency escape system (which was tested earlier this year) to swiftly carry astronauts to safety if something were to go wrong, experiencing about the same G-forces as a ride at Disneyland.

We now have our first glimpse at what astronauts may be wearing on SpaceX' crewed missions to the ISS next year. Elon Musk today revealed a new space suit design on Instagram, adding that more details will be released in the next few days

HOW SPACEX WILL FLY INJURED ASTRONAUTS TO SAFETY SpaceX and NASA have also conducted their first test of how injured astronauts landing at sea would be taken to safety. In the unlikely event of an astronaut medical emergency, SpaceX has outfitted its recovery ship, GO Searcher, with a medical treatment facility and a helipad in the center of the vessel. Recently the company completed helicopter landing and patient loading rehearsals on the ship, practicing how the helicopter will pick up astronauts and fly them to a nearby hospital. In the unlikely event of an astronaut medical emergency, SpaceX has outfitted its recovery ship, GO Searcher, with a medical treatment facility and a helipad in the center of the vessel. The aircraft will also serve to carry doctors and paramedics to care for the astronauts. This will allow the SpaceX medical team to provide the best possible care to astronauts on the ship, in-flight, and get them safely to a hospital. In a normal scenario, Crew Dragon will splash down off of Florida’s eastern coast. GO Searcher is equipped with a crane to lift the capsule out of the water and onto the main deck of the ship. NASA and SpaceX doctors will work together to evaluate the crew onboard the vessel. From there, GO Searcher will head for Cape Canaveral, Florida, where SpaceX teams will take the astronauts to a nearby airport for transport back to Houston.

It also has an Environmental Control and Life Support System (ECLSS) that provides a comfortable and safe environment for crew members.

Boeing unveiled its own version of a space suit in January

Crew Dragon's displays will provide real-time information on the state of the spacecraft's capabilities, showing everything from Dragon's position in space, to possible destinations, to the environment on board.

Boeing unveiled its own version of a space suit in January.

The bright blue spacesuit will be worn by astronauts aboard the CST-100 Starliner.

It is designed to be comfortable while still providing functionality, with the helmet attached to the suit itself, touchscreen-sensitive gloves, and vents to keep the astronauts cool.

The 20 pound spacesuit is far lighter than other launch-and-entry suits, and its material allows water vapour to escape while keeping air inside.

SpaceX has been flying cargo capsules to the International Space Station for three years.

SpaceX chose to develop their its suit for their astronauts in-house.

This is in contrast to the approach taken by Boeing which partnered with spacesuit specialist David Clark Company.

Its inspiration may have come from Jose Fernandez, the designer of costumes for Iron Man, Spider-Man, Batman and Captain America.

====== 1571 ========

BENTLEY REVEALS THE 'WORLD'S FIRST' IN-CAR SUPERFAST WI-FI NETWORK

Luxury car-maker Bentley has launched what it claims is the first superfast 'reliable and secure' in-car Wi-Fi system.

The British company has created a bespoke router built into the boot of its cars and says it plans to introduce it to all of its models in 2019.

Called Advanced Connectivity, the network will use three SIM cards inside the router, which will link to a fixed broadband hub to provide connectivity while on the move.

It lets multiple passengers stream movies, make video calls and access other online services from the comfort of their car.

Luxury car-maker Bentley has launched what it claims is the first superfast 'reliable and secure' in-car Wi-Fi system. The British company has created a bespoke router built into the boot of its cars and says it plans to introduce it to all of its models in 2019

Bentley connected car product manager Hamid Qureshi said the system performed well in testing and the firm is now keen to see it used by customers.

'We're really excited in terms of the uses cases – this idea that when you're in the back of a Bentley car you can actually use this advanced connectivity to simultaneously view multiple types of heavy content,' he said.

'So you could be sitting in the back of the car and a fellow passenger could be streaming Netflix on their iPad and another passenger could be doing a live Skype call and another passenger could be receiving a heavy data file from the office and editing that file and sending it back – and it's all happening simultaneously because of this advanced router connectivity.'

Called Advanced Connectivity, the network will use three SIM cards inside the router, which will link to a fixed broadband hub to provide connectivity while on the move. It lets multiple passengers stream movies, make video calls and access other online services

He added security was a crucial part of the network's design, with much scrutiny over the safety of connected cars in the wake of several high-profile hacking demonstrations in recent years.

'Security is a non-negotiable topic,' Mr Qureshi said.

'Our ambition is to always ensure, through rigorous quality and testing, that products are secure and that goes not just for physical products such as producing a car but also digital services.

'Safety is a non-negotiable paramount.'

Bentley's system has been built in collaboration with telecoms firm Viasat, which has managed 14 million Wi-Fi hotspots and brought satellite-enabled Wi-Fi to commercial and government aircraft.

It will be protected by an inbuilt Virtual Private Network.

====== 1572 ========

NOBEL PRIZE WINNERS WARN THAT A HARD BREXIT WOULD 'SERIOUSLY DAMAGE RESEARCH'

World-leading scientists have warned Theresa May not to allow Brexit to create new barriers to collaboration across Europe.

Dozens of winners of the Nobel Prize have written to the Prime Minister and European Commission president Jean-Claude Juncker setting out their concerns.

Their message was echoed by the London-based Francis Crick Institute, which warned that a hard Brexit could cripple science across the continent.

World-leading scientists have warned Theresa May not to allow Brexit to create new barriers to collaboration across Europe. Dozens of winners of the Nobel Prize have written to the Prime Minister setting out their concerns (stock image)

Nobel winner and Crick director Sir Paul Nurse, one of the signatories to the letter, said scientists feared a hard Brexit would 'seriously damage research'.

The letter to the Prime Minister, signed by 29 Nobel winners and six recipients of the Fields Medal awarded to outstanding mathematicians, said 'creating new barriers' to collaboration across the EU would 'inhibit progress, to the detriment of us all'.

'Many of us in the science community therefore regret the UK's decision to leave the European Union because it risks such barriers,' the group said.

They urged both sides in the Brexit negotiations to ensure 'as little harm as possible is done to research'.

The letter's signatories include biologist Venki Ramakrishnan, president of the Royal Society.

Meanwhile, a survey of more than 1,000 staff at the Crick found 97% of them believed a hard Brexit would be bad for UK science and 82% thought it would have a detrimental effect on European science.

Theresa May visited the Francis Crick Institute earlier this year with Indian counterpart Narendra Modi. Scientists at the institute have now warned that a hard Brexit could cripple science across Europe

The Crick is the biggest biomedical research lab under one roof in Europe and has been publicly praised by the Prime Minister, who toured the facility with Indian counterpart Narendra Modi in April.

Sir Paul said: 'This survey reveals the depth of feeling amongst scientists that a hard Brexit will seriously damage research, and that the UK Government is not paying enough attention to science in the Brexit negotiations.

'Science and research matter for economic growth, health and quality of life, and the environment.

'The overwhelming negativity of scientists towards a hard Brexit should be a wake-up call.

'A hard Brexit could cripple science and the UK Government needs to sit up and listen.

'We need a deal that replaces the science funding lost because of Brexit, that preserves freedom of movement for talented scientists, and that makes them feel welcome in this country.'

A UK Government spokesman said: 'The UK plays a vital role in making Europe a pioneering base for research and values the contribution that international researchers make to the UK.

'This will not change when we leave the EU. We will seek an ambitious relationship on science and innovation with our EU partners, exploring future UK participation in mutually beneficial research programmes, and will continue to support science, research and innovation through our modern Industrial Strategy.

'We have a proud record of welcoming the world's brightest scientists and researchers to work and study here, and after we leave the EU we will have an immigration system to support this.'

====== 1573 ========

ARCHAEOLOGISTS DISCOVER REMAINS OF 'VAMPIRE' CHILD BURIED IN ITALIAN CEMETERY 1,600 YEARS AGO

The grave of a 'vampire child' buried more than 2,000 years ago has been excavated by stunned archaeologists who found the body had been weighed down, over fears it would rise from the dead.

Evidence of a ritualistic burial was found deep underground when a team in Rome, Italy, dug up the remains of a child aged 10, which had a stone placed in its mouth.

The ancient funeral practice took place when people feared the person would rise from the dead and infect people, experts revealed.

However, tests on the skeleton - now known as the 'Vampire of Lugnano' - revealed the child whose sex cannot be determined was infected with malaria at the time it died, the Independent reported.

'I've never seen anything like it. It's extremely eerie and weird,' said Professor David Soren, an archaeologist at the University of Arizona said.

A 10-year-old was discovered lying on its side in a fifth-century Italian cemetery previously believed to be designated for babies, toddlers and unborn fetuses

Those present at the site said the stone was forced inside the jaw, showing it was put there with intent.

The remains were found in the Cemetery of Children where other bizarre discoveries have been made.

Elsewhere another child, believed to be aged three at the time of death, was covered in stones.

Tests have so far discovered the body was likely to have been buried in the fifth century at the time of a malaria outbreak.

Teams investigating burials have found what they believe is evidence of witchcraft.

A huge stone was plucked from the jaws of the corpse which experts say may have been put there to stop the skeleton rising from the dead

Items dug up included raven talons and bronze cauldrons.

The cemetery may have been designated for children with diseases. Over the summer five new grave sites were found in the cemetery, under a tiled tomb.

Bioarchaeologist Jordan Wilson, a PhD student who examined the body said: 'This is a very unusual mortuary treatment that you see in various forms in different cultures, especially in the Roman world, that could indicate there was a fear that this person might come back from the dead and try to spread disease to the living.'

David Pickel, a PhD student a Stanford who directed the excavation said he knew he had found something rare when he reached the tomb.

Other medieval methods of 'stopping vampire' corpses returning to earth include burying them with a stake through the heart.

Cases of such have been found across Europe and in Britain.

The child is believed to have died from malaria but the community in the 5th Century thought he was a vampire

It is believed to be a 'deviant burial', where people considered the 'dangerous dead', such as vampires, were interred to prevent them rising from their graves to plague the living.

Only a handful of such burials have been unearthed in the UK.

In Bulgaria in 2012 archaeologists found remains from a third grave in central Bulgaria linked to the practice.

The skeleton was tied to the ground with four iron clamps, while burning embers were placed on top of his grave.

The bones of a man in his thirties were believed to be at least several centuries old, and experts believed he had been subjected to a superstition-driven ritual to prevent him from becoming one after his death.

Two years later further such gruesome graves were found at the ancient temple of Perperion, south-east of the Bulgarian capital Sofia.

====== 1574 ========

BMW SAYS RIVALS ARE INTERESTED IN JOINING FORCES ON...

BMW rivals and ride-hailing companies are considering joining its consortium for developing self-driving cars as auto industry profits come under increasing pressure, board member Klaus Froehlich said on Tuesday.

Carmakers and ride-hailing companies have sought to build self-driving cars as a way to enter the business of smartphone-hailed robotaxis.

However, they are entering a crowded field where the likes of Apple and Alphabet Inc have been pouring billions of dollars into cars that can drive themselves.

Harald Kruger, CEO and Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG, poses in front of the new BMW series 3 during a media preview at the Auto show in Paris. Carmakers and ride-hailing companies have sought to build self-driving cars as a way to enter the business of smartphone-hailed robotaxis.

'Unfortunately, everybody thought they would be the winner and would have an enormous ride-sharing business,' BMW board member Klaus Froehlich told Reuters on the sidelines of the Paris Motor Show.

BMW, however, wanted to spread the cost of investment and started a consortium that now includes Mobileye, Magna, Fiat Chrysler and auto suppliers Delphi Automotive and Continental AG.

The technology is proving complex and the returns on investment are taking longer to materialise, causing investors to scrutinise whether go-it-alone strategies make sense.

The likes of Apple, Alphabet and Tesla (pictured, the firm's Model 3) have been pouring billions of dollars into cars that can drive themselves

'I have had another German carmaker saying, 'it sounds like we wasted a lot of money'. I also have had contact from tier one suppliers who say 'lets do a common platform',' Froehlich said.

'Some ride-hailing companies have also expressed interest in joining the consortium.'

Froehlich would not be drawn on who might join the consortium beyond saying 'there may be some news on this next year'.

====== 1575 ========

AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHER TAKES INCREDIBLE IMAGES ON 20-YEAR-OLD GAMEBOY

An amateur photographer ingeniously upgraded his Nintendo Gameboy by attaching it to an SLR camera.

Matthew Parrish wanted to use his 20-year-old device for portrait photography so hooked it up to his £200 Olympus OM10 camera.

Now the 21-year-old from Boardman, Ohio, claims the photo quality has vastly improved due to the higher level of exposure.

Ingenious creation: A Gameboy with its sensor attached to an Olympus camera, which allows higher quality shots to be taken

The £200 Olympus OM10 camera which is attached to the 20-year-old Gameboy

Matthew taped the sensor from the Gameboy to a small piece of cardboard, which he then fitted into the film exposure window of the Olympus camera.

He then uploaded the Gameboy camera software and started taking portraits on his newly created DSLR camera using a 50mm lens.

With the modification: A skeleton with a torch on its head and a bearded man with glasses look much crisper with the special attachment

Matthew, from Ohio, claims the photo quality has vastly improved due to the higher level of exposure

Without the modification: A blonde woman with glasses looks much more pixelated in this shot

Matthew's friend Max Krieger shared images of the invention to Twitter, explaining how it was done.

The post has since been liked and retweeted thousands of times.

Roberto MajorSloth commented: 'This is how you win at life.'

The difference in picture quality is show by the crispness of an image of a skeleton with a torch stuck to his head and a man with long hair, a beard and glasses.

Meanwhile, a picture of a woman with blonde hair and glasses is much more pixelated because it was taken by the Gameboy camera without the modification.

It honestly surprised me with how well it worked,' said Matthew (pictured)

Matthew, who does photography as a hobby, said: 'It honestly surprised me with how well it worked.'

He said he saw other people do a similar thing on the internet using a telephoto lens but wanted to make something more suitable for portrait photography.

He added: 'I have been tinkering with things ever since I learned how to use a screwdriver.

'I broke a lot of things as a kid but I learned from my mistakes and made greater things.

'Currently I'm working on improving the design of this camera to make it easier to use.

'I have actually ordered a device online that allows me to extract the images directly from the Gameboy without any degradation to the image quality.'

====== 1576 ========

TESLA APPOINTS FEMALE AUSTRALIAN TELECOMS EXECUTIVE ROBYN DENHOLM TO REPLACE ELON MUSK AS CHAIRMAN

Tesla has appointed Robyn Denholm as chairman, replacing Elon Musk after his controversial behavior forced him to step aside.

Musk sparked an SECC investigation into Telsa by claiming on Twitter he had secured funding to take the company private from the Saudi sovereign investment fund.

The SpaceX founder also smoked marijuana live on an internet podcast.

The appointment comes more than a month after the billionaire had to step down as the electric-car maker's chairman as part of a settlement with U.S. regulators.

Ms Denholm is currently Chief Financial Officer at Australian biggest telecoms company, Telstra, and already sits on the board of Telsa as an independent director.

She has been a member of the board at Tesla since 2014 and will have the task of overseeing Musk who remains as CEO.

Robyn Denholm (pictured) will have the task of overseeing Musk who remains as CEO after she was announced as the new chair today

SpaceX founder and Tesla chief executive Elon Musk stepped down as chairman of the board when he claimed he secured funding to take the company private

Tesla had until next Tuesday to name an independent board chairman under the settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which said Musk's tweets about taking the company private were fraudulent and that the billionaire could retain his role as CEO but should quit as chair for at least three years.

As part of Musk's settlement with the SEC, Tesla also has to monitor his Twitter posts if they relate to the firm.

The appointment of Denholm follows months of turbulence for the company and its stock as investors called for stronger oversight of Musk, whose recent erratic public behavior raised concerns about his ability to steer the company through a rocky phase of growth.

Ms Denholm, who has also has worked at various technology companies including Juniper Networks, Sun Microsystems and Toyota Motor Corp in Australia, said in a statement: 'I believe in this company, I believe in its mission and I look forward to helping Elon and the Tesla team achieve sustainable profitability and drive long-term shareholder value.'

Tesla said Denholm will be serving as chair on a full-time basis and that she will temporarily step down as chair of the company’s audit committee until she leaves Telstra.

Elon Musk pictured smoking marijuana offered by the Joe Rogan Experience podcast host, causing shares in his company to fall

Musk said: 'Robyn has extensive experience in both the tech and auto industries, and she has made significant contributions as a Tesla Board member over the past four years in helping us become a profitable company.

'I look forward to working even more closely with Robyn as we continue accelerating the advent of sustainable energy.'

Twenty-First Century Fox Chief Executive, James Murdoch, who also sits on the Tesla board, was tipped to succeed Musk before today's announcement was made.

A Tesla spokeswoman said that Denholm will receive an annual cash retainer of $300,000 and 8,000 stock options annually.

The spokeswoman added that Tesla was actively looking for two additional independent directors.

Musk called a British diver 'a pedo guy' after he called his called his mini-submarine a 'PR stunt'

Last month Tesla and Musk were both fined $20 million over the tweets in which he claimed he was taking the company private at $420 a share, which the SEC alleges was a number chosen as a joke with his singer girlfriend, Grimes, who introduced him to marijuana.

The tweets sent shares in Tesla soaring to a high of $387.46 a share on August 7.

But Tesla's stock had tumbled by more than 25 per cent before recovering the $7billion loss the SEC lawsuit incurred.

Shares began to rise after the car-maker reported its largest quarterly profit in the company's history and closed at $348.16 a share yesterday.

Musk then raised eyebrows last month when he appeared on Joe Rogan's podcast and smoked weed on air.

The tech whiz Musk is also facing legal action from British diver Vernon Unsworth, who helped to rescue a football team of Thai boys when they became trapped in a cave, by falsely accusing him on Twitter of being a pedophile.

South African-born Musk called Unsworth 'a pedo guy' after he criticized him in a television interview about the dramatic rescue and called his called Musk's mini-submarine a 'PR stunt'.

Musk and SpaceX engineers built a small child-sized submarine and shipped it to Thailand to help with the rescue but the device was not used.

====== 1577 ========

THE SOLAR STORM SO STRONG IT ALMOST SCUPPERED A SECRET US ATTACK DURING THE VIETNAM WAR

A massive sunstorm on 4th August 1972 may have scuppered a major US Navy operation in Vietnam by exploding hundreds of mines.

Operation Pocket Money, a plan to deploy 11,000 sea mines off the coast of North Vietnam to cut off naval supply routes to the region, was hit by the detonation of dozens of mines in a strange event.

Now, a new study says extreme space weather could have caused the explosions south of Hai Phong, North Vietnam.

Scroll down for video

A new Boulder study claims Operation Pocket Money, a plan to deploy 11,000 sea mines off the coast of North Vietnam to cut off naval supply routes to the region, was scuppered by the 1972 storm. Pictured, footage from the big Bear Observatory of the August 7th flare that was part of the same eruption

THE 1972 SOLAR STORM The major solar flare that erupted on Aug. 4, 1972 knocked out long-distance phone communication across some states, including Illinois, according to a NASA account. 'That event, in fact, caused AT&T to redesign its power system for transatlantic cables,' NASA wrote in the account. One of the flares was a 'two-ribbon' flare, dubbed the 'seahorse flare' in which the flaring region appear as two bright lines threading through the area between sunspots within a sunspot group.



Researchers say the solar storm activated magnetic sensors in the undersea destructor mines, causing them to blow up en masse.

The underwater explosives were rigged to detonate in response to magnetic, acoustic, and pressure signatures from passing ships.

However, on August 4, 1972, crew members aboard U.S. Task Force 77 aircraft suddenly observed explosions south of Hai Phong.

20 to 30 explosions were documented in just 30 seconds.

Another 25 to 30 patches of muddy water were also observed, indicative of further explosions.

'The extreme space weather events of early August 1972 had significant impact on the US Navy, which have not been widely reported,' researchers led by Delores Knipp, a space weather expert at the University of Colorado at Boulder, said in their paper.

'These effects, long buried in the Vietnam War archives, add credence to the severity of the storm: a nearly instantaneous, unintended detonation of dozens of sea mines south of Hai Phong, North Vietnam on 4 August 1972.'

The largest solar storm ever recorded, The Carrington Event in 1859, took out telegraph machines across the US, purportedly causing sparks to fly from equipment – some bad enough to set fires inside offices.

WHAT WAS OPERATION POCKET MONEY? Operation Pocket Money was timed to coincide with a televised speech by President Richard Nixon at 21:00 8 May ET. President Richard Nixon signed off on Operation Pocket Money, a plan to deploy 11,000 sea mines off the coast of North Vietnam to cut off naval supply routes to the region. These underwater explosives were rigged to detonate in response to magnetic, acoustic, and pressure signatures from passing ships. The operation was timed to coincide with a televised speech by President Richard Nixon at 21:00 8 May ET. But on August 4 of that year, a mysterious force triggered a mass explosion of dozens of mines. Crew members aboard U.S. Task Force 77 aircraft suddenly observed explosions south of Hai Phong. 20 to 30 explosions were documented in just 30 seconds. Another 25 to 30 patches of muddy water were also observed, indicative of further explosions. Additional mining missions began on 11 May. By the end of the year Navy and Marine Corps bombers had dropped more than eight thousand mines in North Vietnamese coastal waters and three thousand in inland waterways

The team concluded that the 1972 event could have been in the same league as the Carrington Event.

'The activity fits the description of a Carrington‐class storm minus the low latitude aurora reported in 1859,' they wrote.

U.S. Marine helicopters leave troops into suspected Viet Cong area during a full fledged assault operation by U.S. Marines near Da Nang, South Vietnam, in this April 29, 1965 black-and-white file photo during the Vietnam War. Researchers now say a solar storm may have impacted the US Navy during a mining operation

'In our view this storm deserves a scientific revisit as a grand challenge for the space weather community, as it provides space‐age terrestrial observations of what was likely a Carrington‐class storm,' the authors said.

NASA describes the storm as 'legendary' because it occurred in between two Apollo missions: the crew of Apollo 16 had returned to Earth in April and the crew of Apollo 17 was preparing for a moon landing in December.

A new Boulder study claims Operation Pocket Money, a plan to deploy 11,000 sea mines off the coast of North Vietnam to cut off naval supply routes to the region, was scuppered by the storm. Pictured, a solar flare erupting in 2013.

It says a moonwalker caught in the August 1972 storm might have absorbed dangerous levels of radiation, forcing them to return to Earth immediately for treatment.

The US Navy attributed the dramatic event to 'magnetic perturbations of solar storms.'

====== 1578 ========

MCLAREN UNVEIL MP4-X F1 CONCEPT CAR CONTROLLED BY DRIVERS' BRAIN

The technology applied to the car is real but in its early stages so would only be usable in the distant future

Could be controlled by signals from the driver's brain and use of holograms rather than a traditional steering wheel

New vehicles could also feature enclosed cockpits to enhance drivers' safety after recent debates over the issue

The McLaren MP4-X combines speed, excitement and performance and looks forward to hybrid power technologies

McLaren have released what they envisage future Formula One cars could end up like with their MP4-X concept car

Driving solely controlled by the brain, a morphing chassis and a cockpit that would look at home in a fighter jet: this is racing giant McLaren's vision for the future of motor-racing - the MP4-X Formula One concept.

Even with preparations for next season under way, McLaren's thoughts are already turning to years down the line with a new Batmobile-lookalike F1 car that utilises existing technology that could transform the sport when it reaches its full potential.

The MP4-X showcases some of the most advanced tech that McLaren's Applied Technologies division is working on and gives a glimpse of what life could be like on circuits around the world in the next generation of racing.

Scroll down for video

McLaren have unveiled their incredible concept vehicle, the futuristic MP4-X, which utilises emerging technologies in a Formula One car

The MP4-X would feature electrodes fitted to the wings to control the bodywork to make the car as aerodynamic as possible at all times

Tyre sensors, already used within Formula One, could sense wear and tear to reduce the risk of dangerous blow-outs and delaminations

The design draws in current developments of the sport, such as the desire to provide protective canopies for drivers, while upgrading its core values of speed and excitement through development of almost every element to form a visually-stunning, technologically-advanced vehicle.

'With the futuristic McLaren MP4-X concept race car, we wanted to peer into the future and imagine the art of the possible,' John Allert, group brand director of McLaren said.

'We have combined a number of F1's key ingredients – speed, excitement and performance, with the sport's emerging narratives - such as enclosed cockpits to enhance driver safety, and hybrid power technologies.

'Formula 1 is the ultimate gladiatorial sport, and the future we envisage will be a high tech, high performance showcase that excites fans like no other sport.'

It certainly does that. In addition to the protective canopy, other features of the car include tyre sensors that could warn of dangerous blow-outs before they occur, a race suit that would be able to transmit live biological information to the team and solar cells to supplement on-board systems or be used as a boost.

McLaren say much of the MP4-X would far outstrip the current generation of Formula One vehicles with 11 key areas of development focused upon.

The MP4-X could also potentially be controlled by signals from the driver's brain, with having no physical controls at all a 'theoretical possibility' or using gestures or holographic instrument panels within the cockpit.

Earlier this year researchers showed how brainwaves could control planes with the help of brain-to-computer interface (BCI) software.

During a public presentation, teams used a high-performance electroencephalogram (EEG) cap to measure the brain waves of a 'pilot'. A bespoke software and algorithm then converted these brain signals into drone commands.

The concept car features a protective canopy that would go over the head of the driver, an idea that Formula One is considering introducing after serious and fatal accidents in cars that have open cockpits, which was one of the driving forces behind the concept idea

Tekever, a firm working on the project, said: 'Essentially, the electricity flowing through the pilot's brain acts as an input to the drone's control system, in order to perform, on the air, a mission with objectives previously defined by the research team.'

By thinking about which direction he wanted the drone to travel, the pilot was able to fly, turn and land the craft. McLaren's concept could employ a similar system.

In the wake of recent serious and fatal accidents in the sport, changing from the open-cockpit racing format has been considered in order to reduce the number of injuries and deaths.

McLaren driver Jenson Button recently said: 'I was one of many drivers who said, 'This is open-cockpit racing, it should stay as open-cockpit racing,' but I think we've had enough now. We've got to get a canopy on the car of some sort, because we can't have these sorts of accidents happening as much as they have over the last few years.

The chassis of the car could be made up of materials that could recover their original shape if damaged and deformed in a track accident

Solar cells could supplement on-board systems or be used to boost the car to higher levels of performance if it comes to fruition one day

'It's not the 1970s any more, we should know better. Canopies probably are the way to go, but obviously that takes time.'

As far as McLaren are concerned, it seems the canopy is the favoured option for the future. Their concept could improve a driver's visibility in different conditions while letting spectators see inside the cars.

The concept also includes some features currently banned in Formula One, but those regulations could be revisited as technology develops.

Electrodes that turn the air around the cars winds into plasma - plasma flow control - would be one option to help achieve top speeds after corners while the car's alloys could be adaptive by featuring shape memory.

There would be good news for sponsors, too. Standard stickers would be replaced by a billboard that shows targeted adverts for specific viewers in a development that would see a car look unique to every viewer.

McLaren Marketing group head of digital and social media, Rob Bloom, says: 'Since when have the consumer demands of the fan in Lithuania and the fan in Lubbock, Texas been similar? This approach merely reflects the diversity that could become available in a maturing digital age.'

Jenson Button, an advocate of moving away from open-cockpit racing, drives around the McLaren car in its current state this season

McLaren's new concept car has been compared with the Batmobile, pictured ahead of the release of Batman vs Superman: Dawn of Justice

The increased 'intelligence' of the concept vehicle would also see a structured chassis that could recover its original shape by morphing back after a deforming crash - providing more protection to drivers in the circumstances of a multiple collisions.

The MP4-X could also offer feedback on its own condition to help engineers understand problems quicker and easier than in the current way they work.

The technology extends to the driver's personal experience too, with augmented reality displays forming part of their view from the cockpit and a system similar to a fighter jet that McLaren say would effectively allow them to 'see through walls'.

Ferrari offered up their prediction for the future of Formula One earlier this year with a concept car of their own that was shown off in February.

Ferrari released a Formula One concept car of their own earlier this year in a move that may have spurred McLaren on with the MP4-X

Ferrari's concept was similarly futuristic at a time when Formula One is discussing changes in its technical regulations for the 2017 season

Boss Maurizio Arrivabene said his team was trying to provoke its rivals into action with their restyled vehicle and it certainly seems to have pushed McLaren forward given their own futurist offering.

Formula One is discussing changes to its technical regulations for the 2017 season, which will look to make cars faster and more difficult to drive.

And McLaren might need the switch-up in technology as soon as possible... The just-ended season saw them finish on just 27 points in the Constructor Standings, a staggering 676 off winners Mercedes.

====== 1579 ========

THE 'HEARTLAND HYPERLOOP': MISSOURI ROUTE COULD BE THE FIRST IN AMERICA

Missouri could be the first state in America to get a Hyperloop.

Virgin Hyperloop One said it had identified a 'viable route' running along the I-70 corridor, the major highway traversing Missouri, that would connect Kansas City, Columbia and St. Louis.

Virgin Hyperloop One, which already has a working demo track in Nevada, claims it will have the first passenger-bearing loop built by the mid-2020s - and the 'heartland hyperloop' is now a front runner in the race.

Scroll down for video

The 'heartland hyperloop' would run along the I-70 corridor, the major highway traversing Missouri, and would connect Kansas City, Columbia and St. Louis.

HOW FAST WOULD IT BE? The study found travel time between Kansas City and St. Louis could be as little as 28 minutes, compared to 3 ½ hours today. Travel time for trips from either Kansas City or St. Louis to Columbia could be 15 minutes, compared to nearly 2 hours. The cost to take a hyperloop from St. Louis to Kansas City could be lower than the cost to drive (based on gas alone), while still cutting down the time by three hours, the report concluded.

The technology, developed by Elon Musk, is now being pursued by several firms.

It would transport people at roughly 700mph between distant locations through closed off vacuum tubes.

The initial cost estimate for building the I-70 hyperloop route would be $30 million to $40 million per mile of track, the report found - giving a total price tag of $7 billion to $10 billion.

Dozens of possible routes were proposed across the United States, including connections between Los Angeles and San Francisco; New York City and Washington, D.C.; Denver and Houston.

Further feasibility studies will likely be released within the next year for states like Colorado, Ohio and Texas, said a Hyperloop One employee, but Missouri has the distinction of the first.

The firm says the report is a major step forward for the transport technology invented by Elon Musk.

It examined the social impact, station locations, regulatory issues, route alignments and rights-of-way associated with the route.

'A feasibility study of this depth represents the first phase of actualization of a full-scale commercial hyperloop system, both for passengers and cargo in the United States,' said Virgin Hyperloop One CEO Rob Lloyd.

'We are especially proud that Missouri, with its iconic status in the history of U.S. transportation as the birthplace of the highway system, could be the keystone of a nation-wide network.

'The resulting socio-economic benefits will have enormous regional and national impact.'

The study found Travel time between Kansas City and St. Louis could be as little as 28 minutes, compared to 3 ½ hours today, and travel time for trips from either Kansas City or St. Louis to Columbia could be 15 minutes, compared to nearly 2 hours

The study found travel time between Kansas City and St. Louis could be as little as 28 minutes, compared to 3 ½ hours today. Travel time for trips from either Kansas City or St. Louis to Columbia could be 15 minutes, compared to nearly 2 hours.

The cost to take a hyperloop from St. Louis to Kansas City could be lower than the cost to drive (based on gas alone), while still cutting down the time by three hours, it concluded.

The independent report, authored by global infrastructure solutions company Black & Veatch, analyzes a proposed route through the I-70 corridor, the major highway traversing Missouri, and verifies the favorable safety and sustainability opportunities this new mode of transportation offers.

'Black & Veatch worked collaboratively with stakeholders across the region to examine the technology, constructability and the economics associated with designing and building a Missouri Hyperloop,' said Steve Edwards, Chairman and CEO of Black & Veatch.

WHAT IS THE HYPERLOOP? Hyperloop is a proposed method of travel that would transport people at roughly 700mph between distant locations. It was unveiled by Elon Musk in 2013, who at the time said it could take passengers the 380 miles (610km) from LA to San Francisco in 30 minutes - half the time it takes a plane. It is essentially a long tube that has had the air removed to create a vacuum. For safety reasons, Hyperloop tunnels need escape hatches in case of fire. The tube is suspended off the ground to protect against weather and earthquakes. There are now a number of firms vying to bring the technology to life, including Elon Musk himself, Hyperloop Transportation Technologies, and Virgin Hyperloop One. As several firms vie to create the first operational Hyperloop, Elon Musk’s vision of a radical transport system that could ferry passengers above land at 760 miles per hour continues to inch closer to reality

'We found this project is a case of solid engineering meeting up with Virgin Hyperloop One's innovative vision to create a network transforming the very concept of community.'

Two other states are currently studying hyperloop through in-depth feasibility studies—Ohio and Colorado.

Virgin Hyperloop One already has a working demo track in Nevada

The firm has tested pods on its test track at low speeds

In addition, Ohio is also participating in the first U.S. Environmental Impact Studies (EIS) of a hyperloop system and Texas has announced its intent to start the process.

However, experts have warned the technology is likely to appear elsewhere in the world first.

"I think the U.S. will be one of the last places where you'll see this," said Rick Geddes, director of the Cornell Infrastructure Policy program, told CNBC.

The biggest obstacles facing hyperloop aren't the technical ones, he said, but instead policy ones.

====== 1580 ========

EFFORTS TO SUCK CARBON FROM AIR MUST BE RAMPED UP

The nation needs to ramp up efforts to suck heat-trapping gases out of the air to fight climate change, a new U.S. report said.

The report Wednesday from the National Academy of Sciences says technology to do so has gotten better, and climate change is worsening.

By mid-century, the world needs to be removing about 10 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide out of the air each year.

Scroll down for video

This illustration provided by Carbon Engineering in October 2018 shows one of the designs of the company's air contactor assemblies to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere

That's the equivalent of about twice the yearly emissions of the U.S.

Last year the world put nearly 37 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide into the air, and emissions have been rising.

Steve Pacala, Princeton University biologist and chair of the panel, said in an interview that having ways to remove heat-trapping gases from the atmosphere would make the job of tackling climate change 'much easier.'

HOW DOES THE RADICAL NEW SYSTEM WORK? Direct air capture technology works almost exactly like it sounds. Giant fans draw ambient air into contact with an aqueous solution that picks out and traps carbon dioxide. Through heating and a handful of familiar chemical reactions, that same carbon dioxide is re-extracted and ready for further use -as a carbon source for making valuable chemicals like fuels, or for storage via a sequestration strategy of choice. Giant fans draw ambient air into contact with an aqueous solution that picks out and traps carbon dioxide. Through heating and a handful of familiar chemical reactions, carbon dioxide is re-extracted and ready for further use The resulting fuels, including gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel, are compatible with existing fuel distribution and transportation infrastructure.

'It causes one to think differently about the climate problem when you have a backstop,' he said.

'And the ultimate temperature we have to suffer through is going to be lower.'

Carbon Engineering, a Canadian-based clean energy company backed by Bill Gates, recently outlined the design of a large industrial plant that it said could capture carbon dioxide from the atmosphere at a cost of between $94 and $232 a tonne.

That is well below past estimates of about $600 a tonne by the American Physical Society, said David Keith, a Harvard University physics professor and the founder of Carbon Engineering who led the research.

Climeworks, a Swiss company and Carbon Engineering's main rival, recently said it was hoping to cut its production price to $100 a tonne in the next 5-10 years, from about $600 now.

It sells carbon dioxide to greenhouses as an airborne fertiliser to grow tomatoes or cucumbers.

Carbon Engineering, a Canadian-based clean energy company backed by Bill Gates, recently outlined the design of a large industrial plant that it said could capture carbon dioxide from the atmosphere at a cost of between $94 and $232 a tonne.

The report comes on the heels of a United Nations science report that painted a bleak picture of the world's ability to avoid dangerous warming.

Wednesday's study 'is sort of more optimistic; it gives some operational advice,' said Kate Gordon, a research scholar at the Columbia Center for Global Energy policy who was not part of the report's panel.

The 370-page report called for the nation to invest in technologies and methods that would remove the heat-trapping gasses like carbon dioxide from the atmosphere that are generated from human activities like burning coal and natural gas for electricity, or burning gasoline and diesel for transportation.

WHAT THE REPORT RECOMMENDS The technologies outlined include the simple and the futuristic: Plant more trees and manage forests better, and limit the amount of land used by people. Plants take carbon dioxide from the air and use it to grow.

Conserve soils better so they can store more carbon dioxide and produce more food.

Conserve and restore coastal plants, like marshlands and sea grass beds.

A relatively new technology called direct air capture. Pilot projects have started using giant fans that pull in air, use a chemical reaction to suck carbon out, and then inject it underground.

A still-to-be-worked out technology that relies on certain types of rock that can absorb carbon dioxide.

Burning more biofuel - like wood - and capturing the carbon dioxide after combustion and either burying it underground or making it into solids that can be spread on dirt.

'These technologies will clearly help since we have screwed up a lot,' said Nobel Prize-winning atmospheric chemist Mario Molina of the University of California San Diego, who wasn't part of the report's panel.

The good news is that technology in this field has advanced more in the past nine months than it had in the previous decade, said study co-author Christopher Jones, an engineering professor of Georgia Tech.

Pacala said the natural methods like tree planting is pretty cheap and available now. But he said they can only do so much because 'there's a limit to available land.'

Jason Furtado, a meteorology professor at the University of Oklahoma who wasn't part of the report, called the bioenergy method the most promising, but not necessarily the easiest.

The direct air capture, being used by Climeworks , Carbon Engineering and others, is mostly limited by cost, Pacala said.

Carbon Engineering acting chief scientist David Keith, a Harvard University professor, said removing carbon from the air makes sense only once humans have stopped putting so much in the air.

'The idea that humanity might continue huge fossil (fuel) emissions while simultaneously balancing them with removal is nutty - you plug the leaks before bailing the boat.'

The report addresses concerns that it creates a 'moral hazard' - raising hopes about the promise of these carbon-removal technologies that could give civilization an excuse not to cut emissions from coal, oil and gas now.

Pacala said carbon removal technologies aren't a substitute for massive reductions in carbon emissions.

They are tools to get overall emissions down, he said.

'The fact that we need large-scale negative emissions essentially tells us that we have left it (until) too late to solve the problem,' said Norwegian scientist Glen Peters, who tracks global carbon emissions.

====== 1581 ========

SAY HELLO TO MCLAREN'S NEW £2.1 MILLION SPEEDTAIL SUPERCAR

McLaren has taken the covers off its latest model - a 106-unit only hyper GT car that has more power than 10 Ford Fiestas combined.

Called the Speedtail, it's the fastest road car the iconic British manufacturer has ever produced, capable of speeds of 250mph, thanks to a 1035 horsepower petrol-electric hybrid powertrain derived from Formula One.

It's been dubbed as the modern continuation of the iconic '90s McLaren F1 featuring a similar three-seat cabin layout, with the driver sat slap-bang in the middle of the cockpit like a fighter pilot.

Even if the eye-watering price of £1.75million plus taxes - so £2.1million for Britons - wasn't a stumbling block, you can't have one, as every example to be built has already been reserved by a deep-pocketed buyer.

Hyper-GT: This is the McLaren Speedtail, the British brand's hyper-GT model that has a staggering top speed of 250mph

First codenamed the BP23, the Speedtail has been a long-awaited successor to the glorious F1.

The three-seat arrangement is like nothing else on the market today, with the driver positioned centrally and marginally in front of the two passengers who will flank the lucky individual at the controls.

The driver can choose from which side they want to enter and exit the car, too, as this time around there's no gear lever for them to clamber over due to the use of an automatic gearbox.

This teardrop-shaped cockpit sits in what can only be described as an enormously sleek body.

Measuring in at 5.2 metres long, the nose to tail distance is the same as a long-wheelbase Mercedes S-Class limousine - and bigger than the average-size car parking space.

Making up the vast majority of the length is the dramatic rear end, which features one of the most extended rear overhangs of any vehicle in production today.

What also draws the eyes are the fixed-cover front wheels.

The Speedtail is the fastest road car the iconic British manufacturer has ever produced thanks to a 1035 horsepower petrol-electric hybrid powertrain derived from Formula One

The dramatic design makes it one of the most unique looking models - even by hypercar standards - to ever hit the market

It's the natural successor to the incredible McLaren F1 built in the 1990s - and it's all because of the cabin layout

These are designed to keep the air fed through the front-bumper vents as clean as possible as it channels down the profile of the bodywork.

Like a reversal of a time-trial bicycle - which in some cases have a solid wheel at the back - the rear wheels are a traditional alloy, giving the car a unique look.

If the 106 owners don't like it, they can have the fixed front-wheel covers removed on request.

One of the standout features are the fixed-cover front wheels - these are designed to keep the air fed through the front-bumper vents as clean as possible as it flows down the side of the car

Measuring in at 5.2 metres long, the nose to tail distance is the same as a long-wheelbase Mercedes S-Class limousine - and bigger than the average-size car parking space

Another high-tech feature includes the lack of wing mirrors.

Instead, the Speedtail features cameras that extend from the doors to provide a wide-angle image that displayed to the driver in real time via a pair of screens mounted in the dashboard.

Under the incredibly svelte panels is a petrol-electric hybrid system that combines a 4.0-litre twin-turbo V8 with electric motors to produce a whopping 1035 horse power.

The hybrid systems isn't for economy, though - while there are batteries on board, there is no scope for electric-only running. It's purely about sheer performance.

And there's plenty of that on tap.

With the Speedtail tipping the scales at just 1,430kg - less than a Ford Mondeo family car - it can deliver a top speed of 250mph.

The three-seat layout puts the driver centrally in the cockpit. Three screens make up the dashboard, which is also flanked by an additional screen on either side which show the view from the external cameras used instead of traditional side mirrors

The original McLaren F1 will always be remembered for having a three-seat layout with the driver positioned in the middle of the car

The driver can enter the vehicle from either side, because an automatic transmission means there is no gear lever to clamber over

Getting there shouldn't take long. McLaren says it can accelerate from zero to 186mph in just 12.8 seconds. That's 186mph in the same time it takes a decent sprinter to run 100 metres and almost four seconds faster than the acceleration of the Woking manufacturer's track-focused P1 hypercar.

That's even more impressive when you consider this is purely a road vehicle.

Even the extended tail design, while incredibly dramatic, has a fairly practical purpose, offering a decent size boot.

And not only is there a central luggage compartment at the back, there's space below the front bonnet that can hold a bespoke set of Speedtail bags that can hold enough clothing for three occupants.

Production will commence towards the end of next year and each person who has put down a deposit has only been allowed to buy one of the limited-run creations.

The McLaren Speedtail tips the scales at just 1,430kg, which is less than a Ford Mondeo family car

McLaren says it received over 300 serious enquires from established customers who wanted to get their hands on one of the 106 examples, even despite the mesmerising £1.75million plus taxes asking price

Production of the Speedtails will commence towards the end of next year at McLaren's Woking facility. Each person who has put down a deposit has only been allowed to buy one of the limited-run creations

And don't expect any of the Speedtails produced to cost the £2.1million price tag. With a range of optional extras, the price is likely to creep closer to the £3million mark.

The model seen here has, according to McLaren, £470,000 of extras specced.

Mike Flewitt, ceo at McLaren Automotive, described the hyper-GT Speedtail as 'a fusion of art and science' that 'combines an astonishing maximum speed with an iconic central-driving position and a truly pioneering approach to bespoke personalisation'.

'A ground-breaking hybrid powertrain sits within a lightweight carbon fibre body reminiscent of sleek ‘streamliners’ that once set world speed records, while the luxurious three-seat cockpit offers a sublime combination of an incredible driving experience, unmatched individualism and innovative materials never seen before in a road-going vehicle,' he added.

McLaren says the Speedtail can accelerate from zero to 186mph in just 12.8 seconds. That's 186mph in the same time it takes a decent sprinter to run 100 metres and almost four seconds faster than the acceleration of the Woking manufacturer's track-focused P1 hypercar

The car has not one but two luggage compartments, offering enough space to carry kit for all three occupants

These cameras extend from behind the front wheels to act as wing mirrors. A live feed is then sent to the pair of screen inside the vehicle

McLaren says interest in the model has been incredible, having received over 300 serious enquires from established customers who wanted to get their hands on one of the 106 examples, even despite the mesmerising asking price.

Those who didn't get he nod to take one home have instead been given priority for the Senna and Senna GTR track cars revealed in the last 12 months.

====== 1582 ========

POSTMAN, SHOPPER, BUILDER: IN JAPAN, THERE'S A ROBOT...

Delivering packages, shopping for groceries and even building a house.

These are some of the skills new robots presented at the World Robot Summit in Tokyo can perform.

From enormous 'construction workers' to helpful personal shoppers, here are some of the latest breakthroughs in robotics.

Delivering packages, shopping for groceries and even building a house. These are some of the skills new robots presented at the World Robot Summit in Tokyo can perform (stock image)

Package delivery service

CarriRo, shaped like a toy London bus with friendly 'eyes' on its front, delivers packages by rolling around streets at four miles per hour.

It directs itself via GPS to addresses within a one-mile radius, explained Chio Ishikawa from Sumitomo Corp which is promoting the robot.

The person receiving the package is sent a code to their smartphone which allows them to open up CarriRo and retrieve whatever it is delivering them.

Services like this are especially needed in ageing Japan.

With nearly 28 per cent of the population over 65, mobility is increasingly limited and the country is struggling for working-age employees.

An Omron robot picks an item off a shelf at the summit. Some of the robots presented can help stack shelves at the 55,000 convenience stores open 24/7 in Japan

A man empties the robot's basket, which it had filled up with items from a shelf

Building for the 2020 Olympics

As Tokyo prepares to welcome the world for the 2020 Olympics, there are construction sites all over the city but not always enough people to work them.

HRP-5P is a humanoid-shaped machine which looks like a brawny builder, standing at almost six foot (1.8 metres) tall and weighing in at 16 stone (101kg).

It is designed to carry out the same construction tasks that humans currently perform - even when left to its own devices.

HRP-5P is built like a human so it can use the same tools as a man, explained one of its creators, Kenji Kaneko from the National Advanced Industrial Science and Technology research facility.

Construction robot HRP-5P is built like a beefy builder and has the skills to match

Vital support for elderly

Toyota's 'Human Support Robot' (HSR) stands at three feet (1 metre) tall and looks like a bin with arms, but provides much-needed support to the elderly and those less mobile.

It can handle and maneuver a variety of objects and provides a key interface with the outside world via its internet-connected screen.

And Omron showcased a robot that can be programmed to glide around a supermarket and place various items into a basket.

Some of the robots presented can even help stack shelves at the 55,000 convenience stores open 24/7 in Japan.

A robotic hand which can grip objects and help those less mobile with chores around the house

A SEED Solutions humanoid robot on display at the World Robot Summit in Tokyo, Japan

Infallible tourist guide

Manufacturers were also promoting the latest in talking robots, which are becoming increasingly 'intelligent' in their responses.

Sharp's Robohon - just over half a foot (20cm) tall - recounts to tourists the history of the ancient Imperial capital of Kyoto in English, Japanese or Chinese.

A SEED Solutions humanoid robot performing a Japanese musical drama called 'Noh'

A table tennis robot developed by Omron returns a shot to a human player

Exceptional mimic

Very popular among visitors to the World Robot Summit was a robot replica of 85-year-old Tetsuko Kuroyanagi, one of the country's top TV stars.

Created in collaboration with Japanese robotics master Hiroshi Ishiguro, it replicates her facial expressions almost perfectly.

But conversation with the machine hardly flows.

'The difficulty is being able to create fluid conversations with different people,' said Junji Tomita, engineer at telecoms giant NTT which is also involved in the project.

'The number of possible responses to an open question is so vast that it is very complicated.'

A robot replica of 85-year-old Tetsuko Kuroyanagi, one of the country's top TV stars

It replicates her facial expressions almost perfectly but was not very chatty in conversation

====== 1583 ========

IS IT GREEN OR BLUE? BAFFLING COLOUR ILLUSION TESTS USERS

It may sound like a seemingly easy question, being asked to name whether the colour in front of you is blue or green.

But a tricky new quiz throws any confidence you had in solving the 50/50 option out of the window.

In the baffling new illusion, opticians have placed five strikingly similar shades of green and blue next to each other.

They say if you can’t spot the subtle difference, it does not mean you have a colour vision deficiency, which affects almost three million Britons.

Instead, opticians claim the difference is only how the brain perceives the colour.

It may sound like a seemingly easy question, being asked to name whether the colour in front of you is blue or green. But a tricky new quiz throws any confidence you had in solving the 50/50 option out of the window

Take the test for yourself below

Optical Express drafted the quiz, which tricked hundreds of people in a survey, as part of National Eye Health Week.

One of the colours the 1,000 people quizzed struggled to spot included Tiffany Blue, trademarked by the jewellery retailer.

Around two fifths of respondents polled assumed the shade was blue – even those it is closer to green on the RGB spectrum (113, 208, 197).

The quiz of five colours was prompted by another illusion from Optical Express that asked patients to identify whether one square was green or blue.

Two thirds of people quizzed were adamant this shade was green, while the remaining third disagreed – stating it was blue.

However, when asked to name the same colour adjacent to two distinctly blue images, the rate that thought it was green jumped.

Opticians said the colour has the values 0, 122 and 116 on the RGB colour spectrum – meaning the shade is only slightly more green than blue.

Stephen Hannan, clinical services director at Optical Express, said: ‘Isn’t the brain an extraordinary thing?

‘Every single person is unique and as a result, our brains process information differently.

‘Depending on how you interpret colours, one person might see it one way, while the very next person who looks at it might see it differently.’

Mr Hannan explained light enters the eye, passes through the natural lens and hits the retina, which is the light sensitive tissue at the back of the eye.

The light is converted to an electrical signal which travels along the optic nerve to the visual cortex in the brain.

The brain makes its own unique interpretation of this electrical signal, meaning people often see different colours to others.

Mr Hannan added: ‘It is not surprising that many respondents changed their mind when seeing the colour in contrast to the two blue shades.

‘We perceive an object’s colour based on a comparison to its surrounding shades, not on the actual colour itself.’

====== 1584 ========

MEET THE ROBOFLY: WIRELESS INSECT POWERED BY LASERS TAKES FLIGHT

A radical laser powered robot fly the size of a toothpick could soon revolutionize everything from disaster recovery to sniffing out gas leaks

Though insect-sized flying robots have been around for a while, none had been able to take untethered fight until now.

Engineers at the University of Washington have revealed the RoboFly had taken its first untethered flaps, earlier this year, marking the first time a wireless flying robotic insect has flown.

Now the man behind the project has revealed he hopes to have fully autonomous swarms roaming the skies within five years.

Scroll down for video

Engineers at the University of Washington have revealed that the RoboFly has taken its first untethered flaps, marking the first time a wireless flying robotic insect has flown

RoboFly is only slightly heavier than a toothpick and is powered by an onboard circuit that converts the laser energy into enough electricity to operate its wings.

Previously, the electronics the insects carried to power and control their wings were too heavy for the robots to fly with, meaning they had to remain connected to a wire.

'Before now, the concept of wireless insect-sized flying robots was science fiction. Would we ever be able to make them work without needing a wire?' said co-author Sawyer Fuller, an assistant professor in the UW Department of Mechanical Engineering.

'Our new wireless RoboFly shows they're much closer to real life.'

Fuller told CNBC the team hopes to soon be able to steer the laser so that RoboFly can hover and fly around.

They are currently working on more advanced brains and sensor systems to help the robots navigate and complete tasks on their own, Fuller said.

"For full autonomous I would say we are about five years off probably," he said.

Insect-sized flying robots could be used for time-consuming tasks like surveying crop growth on large farms or sniffing out gas leaks.

'I’d really like to make one that finds methane leaks,' he said.

'You could buy a suitcase full of them, open it up, and they would fly around your building looking for plumes of gas coming out of leaky pipes.'

RoboFly is only slightly heavier than a toothpick and is powered by an onboard circuit that converts laser energy into enough electricity to operate its wings

It uses a narrow invisible laser beam to power their robot. They pointed the laser beam at a photovoltaic cell, which is attached above RoboFly and converts the laser light into electricity

'If these robots can make it easy to find leaks, they will be much more likely to be patched up, which will reduce greenhouse emissions.

'This is inspired by real flies, which are really good at flying around looking for smelly things. So we think this is a good application for our RoboFly,' Fuller continued.

They could also help in life-saving search and rescue missions.

The robots fly by fluttering tiny wings because they are too small to use propellers.

However, their small size is advantageous as these robots are cheap to make and can easily slip into tight places that are inaccessible to big drones.

Fuller had previously developed the RoboBee, which had a leash that allowed it to receive power and control through wires from the ground.

It uses a narrow invisible laser beam to power their robot. They pointed the laser beam at a photovoltaic cell, which is attached above RoboFly and converts the laser light into electricity.

'It was the most efficient way to quickly transmit a lot of power to RoboFly without adding much weight,' said co-author Shyam Gollakota, an associate professor in the UW's Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering.

Right now, RoboFly can only take off and land, but the team soon hopes that they will be able to move the laser to steer the robotic insect around.

The laser alone does not provide enough voltage to move the wings, so the team designed a circuit that boosted the seven volts coming out of the photovoltaic cell up to the 240 volts needed for flight.

To give RoboFly control over its own wings, the engineers added a microcontroller to the same circuit.

'The microcontroller acts like a real fly's brain telling wing muscles when to fire,' said co-author Vikram Iyer, a doctoral student in the UW Department of Electrical Engineering. 'On RoboFly, it tells the wings things like "flap hard now" or "don't flap."'

====== 1585 ========

MEN IN LOVE WITH SEX DOLLS: SUBCULTURE OF 'IDOLLATORS' REVEALED IN NEW DOCUMENTARY SILICONE SOUL

The staff at John & Tony’s Steakhouse in West Chicago know the couple well: There’s 54-year-old John – a genial man with a big, partially toothless smile who works in truck deliveries – and his wife, Jackie, a petite, dark-haired beauty in a wheelchair whose favorite dish is bacon-wrapped dates.

The inseparable pair are staples at John & Tony’s, and it’s their annual dining spot for celebrating Valentine’s Day – but the wait staff are accustomed to taking other reservation calls, too, from people who simply want to sit near them to observe John’s doting love.

Because Jackie is no normal suburban wife; she doesn’t walk, talk, laugh or even eat her beloved dates. Instead, she’s a life-sized doll that John ‘married’ on the Jerry Springer show years ago, but he treats her like she’s a human princess, gazing adoringly at and chatting away to his silent bride (as strangers look on, aghast.)

John and Jackie are the stars of new documentary Silicone Soul, which chronicles the lives of men who’ve fallen in love with dolls – as well as other doll enthusiasts who have interests and motivations separate from sex or romance, such as a female artist who uses dolls for photography and friendship.

In addition to John - who purchased Jackie for $7,000 - the film follows a man named ‘Davecat’ in Detroit who’s married to doll Sidore and owns another, Elena, with whom he’s involved (they’re polyamorous, he says). There’s also a New Jersey husband going by the pseudonym of ‘Ben’ who keeps several dolls in the basement as surrogates for his severely ill wife. And they’re far from the only people choosing such a lifestyle, according to director Melody Gilbert, who was wholly unacquainted with the phenomenon before embarking upon this project – though it immediately fascinated her.

Scroll down for video

New documentary Silicone Soul features Chicago man John, who lives in a trailer in a retirement community, and his 'wife,' Jackie - a sex doll he married on the Jerry Springer show

Detroit man 'Davecat' says he is married to one of his dolls, Sidore, but they are involved in a polyamorous relationship with another silicone doll, Elena; he believes he is a pioneer in 'synthetic' love and believes he'd be 'shooting himself in the foot' by dating 'organic' women

Abyss Creations in California has been selling anatomically-correct silicone sex dolls for years, and the company is also behind RealBotix, which is developing robot companions

The life-sized dolls can be customized and are shipped to customers in massive wooden boxes; they retail for thousands of dollars, and thousands more must be shelled out to replace models suffering from wear and tear

‘I’m really interested in subcultures,’ Gilbert tells DailyMail.com. ‘I’m interested in subcultures to find out more how we’re alike than how we’re different. I think the easy thing to do would be to sensationalize this story; I’m not interested in that. That’s easy. It’s much harder to dig deeper, spend time and find out what really drives these folks.

‘And what I saw – and this takes time to explain, it takes time even watching the film – I developed a lot of compassion and understanding for why people are doing this, especially in this day and age in our society.’

Gilbert was actually contacted several years ago by Long Island professor and psychoanalyst Danielle Knafo, who’d stumbled upon the subculture when a patient told her of his own unorthodox living arrangement.

‘Initially, I did not know,’ she says of the patient. ‘Initially, this patient of mine was telling me about this wonderful relationship he was in; he had had two failed marriages and now he found the love of his life – and, as he described it, it was a little too perfect, in my eyes.

‘Then eventually, like in the fourth session, he revealed to me that it was a doll. I was taken aback; I tried to … stay cool,’ she tells DailyMail.com.

She adds: ‘You know how men call women “dolls” – at first, he was using that, and I thought, “Okay, she’s a doll to him” – and then I realized. I looked at him and I said, “You mean a real doll?” And he goes, “Yeah, yeah.”

‘I had to go through a lot of mixed emotions. You know, I’m a feminist, and suddenly this man telling me that his best relationship with a woman was with a doll – and all these thoughts about objectifying women and blah, blah, blah went through my head. But little by little, I got to know him and his own story, the pain involved in his relationships … I developed sympathy and began understanding the appeal of this kind of relationship.’

She began seeking out similar case studies to further educate herself about the existence of what’s known as iDollators, or people attracted to dolls.

While jokes and jibes about blow-up dolls are rampant in popular culture, such female stand-ins were for years about the only alternatives available. Modern advancements in technology, however, have extended to sexual surrogates, with businesses such as California-based Abyss Creations churning out customized, anatomically-correct, lifelike female dolls.

There’s a waiting list at the Abyss factory in California; creator Matt McMullan describes the process in the film of creating the mold, skeleton and more customized parts of the companions to be shipped across the country.

‘They have online forums for these people who live with dolls, and I posted a request if anybody was open to speaking with me – and quite a few replied and actually wanted their stories heard,’ Dr Knafo tells DailyMail.com. ‘’I think … some of them kind of wanted to hear from me, are they normal, are they abnormal?

‘But I did develop relationships with quite a few of these men, and they opened up to me about their relationships. In the beginning, I thought that most of the men were asocial, they were socially challenged loners, had difficulties with relationships – but what I discovered, over the years: Some of these men are married, some of them have relationships. They have a doll relationship in addition to a human relationship. So it’s not easy to just peg them as one thing.’

Matt McMullan, of Abyss Creations and RealBotix, describes the doll-making process in the documentary, which involves meticulously creating the mold, skeleton and customized parts

John's 'wife,' Jackie, sits on the porch outside of their small home; he takes great pride in dressing her and often takes her on trips to the zoo or the couple's favorite restaurant

The reactions of friends, relatives and strangers vary; the film shows John and Jackie visiting with a very accepting neighbor, while other people approach John on a trip to the zoo - during which he pushes Jackie in a wheelchair - asking about the doll and questioning his sincerity

While sex dolls have evolved from the more primitive blow-up dolls often referenced in popular culture to anatomically-correct, life-sized silicone models, the industry continues to advance, and companies such as RealBotix are fine-tuning technology and artificial intelligence to make dolls even more realistic

In the case of John, he’d been married before – and was actually alerted to the existence of such dolls by his stepson. The marriage disintegrated, however, and John ordered Jackie; the anatomically-correct silicone doll cost him $7,000 brand new, and Jackie requires occasional body replacements due to wear and tear that cost thousands more.

‘I worked my a** off to pay for it, to pay for her,’ he says in the film. ‘She was something I wanted; she was someone I wanted. She was everything I wanted.’

He says: ‘I was married to a flesh-and-blood person for eight years, and it didn’t work out … Now I’m with Jackie, and we’re happy – and it is weird, but it’s good weird. Weird doesn’t necessarily mean bad.’

He takes great pride in dressing Jackie, though his long-suffering niece, who tries desperately to incorporate the unusual couple into family life and even invited them to an awkward Thanksgiving dinner, complains that he ‘dresses her kind of like my grandmother’. He takes her for walks outside of his trailer in the modest retirement neighborhood where he lives and on trips to the zoo and to their favorite restaurant.

‘Real dolls don’t cheat,’ he says in the film. ‘They don’t lie. They don’t steal … She keeps me honest. She keeps me happy. [I’m] trying to learn the zen from her. She’s just so calm and so collected and so much more mature than me.

‘We’re married like any other married couple,’ he adds, while conceding that such a marriage is not deemed legal.

‘We communicate more or less; she has her own body, but we share the same brain,’ he says in the film. ‘She has her own private spaces in here. She knows everything about me; I don’t know everything about her. She has places in my head that she develops independently that are subconscious to me … so that way, she can surprise me.’

The reactions to Jackie run the gamut, to put it mildly. In footage from one of John’s trips with his ‘wife’ to the zoo, long-time staff rave about his friendly demeanor, while strangers gape and question. Ambivalent or supportive reactions often come from perhaps unlikely places; a boss at John & Tony’s, for example, speaks highly of his unconventional regulars.

‘I grew up on the east side of Detroit, and I was the only white guy in the neighborhood,’ the restaurateur says in the film. ‘So I know what it’s like to be different … [It] doesn’t make you bad, just different. He’s a gentle person; he doesn’t bother anyone.’

That’s a point hammered home by Davecat, the articulate Detroit ‘husband’ of Sidore whose dolls have active online presences that he engineers.

‘I would describe myself, essentially, as a synthetic activist and a person who wants to get people to realize that dolls … are not something to be feared, but something beneficial,’ he says in the film. He’s been with Sidore for nearly 20 years; for their tenth anniversary, he purchased matching wedding bands that say ‘Synthetic love lasts forever.’

While Sidore is his wife, he says, the couple are involved in ‘hierarchical polyamory’ with another doll, Elena: ‘Basically, that means that, like, we’re all in love with each other,’ he says in the film. ‘It’s all equal, but Sidore will always be my wife.’

For all his protestations, however, Davecat is clearly aware – keenly – that his paramours are dolls; he takes them apart and explains the mechanics in the film, as well as the eye-brow raising question of cleaning Sidore and Elena.

‘There are special tools, let’s just say, that are involved with that,’ he says, attempting to gloss over the issue in an awkward exchange with Gilbert, though he explains that he’ll put down a bed sheet on the floor before he works to ‘clean that area out’ with ‘basically a bulb with a syringe.’

He says in the film: ‘A large part of it is self-deception. It’s like, “Right, okay, she can’t really love me because she’s not really a she, she’s an it.” On the other hand, she does love me, because I’ve created a personality for her – and that gives her her own sort of spirit, ideas … likes, dislikes, etc.’

For some iDollators, Dr Knafo tells DailyMail.com, the physical aspect of the relationship falls by the wayside after time as the men nurture a different kind of bond with the dolls.

‘Eventually, some of them stop having sex with the dolls, just like in a marriage,’ she says.

Across the board, however, these men do realize that their companions are not capable of mutual feelings, according to Dr Knafo.

‘On one level, they know they’re not real; they’ll show you the mechanics, how they work, their heads, their whatever,’ she tells DailyMail.com. ‘But on another level, when they’re speaking about the dolls, you get the impression that they really believe that these dolls are real people, real humans.

‘They live in this in-between place between fantasy and reality – the reality that the dolls are objects, and the fantasy that they are women who care about them and have personalities and have histories.’

She adds: ‘These guys, some of them spend almost all their waking hours preoccupied with these dolls in some way – whether it’s dressing them or creating stories for them or creating blogs. A lot of them have blogs and twitter accounts – so they’re speaking through these dolls like ventriloquists. They’re like their alter egos.’

John says in the film: 'I was married to a flesh-and-blood person for eight years, and it didn’t work out … Now I’m with Jackie, and we’re happy – and it is weird, but it’s good weird. Weird doesn’t necessarily mean bad’

Silicone Soul profiles John, Davecat and other iDollators - such as a New Jersey husband whose sick wife agreed to let him use a silicone surrogate - and their lives with their dolls

Director Melody Gilbert, left, was contacted about making the documentary by Long Island professor and psychoanalyst Danielle Knafo, right, who became acquainted with the subculture when one of her patients revealed he was in a relationship with a silicone doll

Perhaps most interesting in the film is ‘Ben,’ who remains committed to a relationship with his living, breathing wife while enjoying the company of his dolls Marina and Tasha. His cancer patient wife can no longer participate in physical intimacy, while Ben remains a ‘very sexual’ person, Dr Knafo says – so the couple came up with real dolls as a solution.

‘People are judgmental, and unless you’re kind of in our shoes, I guess it’s difficult to understand,’ Ben’s wife says in the film. ‘But you know, here I have a husband who continues to be faithful, and I don’t have to worry about him having safe sex or, you know, going out and finding somebody else and then coming back to me.’

She adds: ‘That’s why I say it’s a win-win, as long as he’s happy and he’s safe. He’s not doing anything wrong. I’m fine with it. I really am.’

She requested that she take a little time before she ‘meet’ the dolls, however – but eventually began helping her husband to dress and style them. Marina, in particular, proved particularly helpful through their personal struggles.

‘My wife was very critically ill; we almost lost her,’ he says in the film. ‘She was in very bad shape … Marina got me through. I just held her at night and talked to her, and we got through that whole thing together.

‘That’s how she became very special … that’s how she got so deep into me.’

For others such as Davecat, however, the allure of dolls has trumped the need for human women altogether.

‘Being able to picture myself with an organic woman, it’s … I’d almost be shooting myself in the foot,’ Davecat says in the film. ‘There’s so many expectations that she would have to uphold.’

He adds: ‘At any point in the relationship, she could just be like, “Yeah, you’re weird, get away from me.” Obviously, she has the right to do that, but if that was an option, then obviously I wouldn’t want an intimate relationship.

‘”The car may crash, so I’m not going to get into the car:” That’s how I think about it these days.’

According to Dr Knafo, Davecat ‘is very much in love with this doll; he considers himself a pioneer in this kind of relationship – and that this is just the beginning. The way we would think of taste – somebody who prefers blondes or redheads – then will prefer an inanimate object.’

Abyss Creation’s McMullan is also behind RealBotix, which has engineered more robot-like products with programmable memory and personality – and conversational capabilities.

‘The interesting thing is … they’re putting AI in these dolls, which is, in effect, turning them into robots – but some [of the men] don’t want that,’ Dr Knafo says of emerging technology. ‘They don’t want a doll who speaks; they want that silent female who doesn’t respond that they can control.’

She adds that ‘technology and humanity is developing to the point where many people in artificial intelligence are predicting that we’ll be marrying robots within 40 years.’

In the meantime, however, the varying rationales and existences of iDollators really challenged director Gilbert’s assumptions and her world view, to some extent. She spent significant time with her case studies, working hard to earn the trust of a subculture that is, understandably, wary of openly telling their stories.

‘It’s a film about companionship and relationships and love and acceptance and secrets, and all those kind of things – that’s what I was trying to do,’ she tells DailyMail.com. ‘Because you know what? It’s easy to make a film about sex dolls. A lot of people are doing that right now. That’s not what I’m doing …I like the balance of the different people in the film.’

She adds: ‘It’s hard to imagine that a documentary about sex dolls would be about creating empathy.’

After researching her subjects and spending time with the me, she says: ‘What I realized is that everyone has a need or desire to love or be loved – and I think that’s really what this is about, and it just took time to see that and spent time with people, because you first hear about it, it’s a little shocking. And … John, with his wife Jackie, I mean, it is so clear to me that he has so much love to give.’

She points out that he’s far from alone, since there’s a waiting list for dolls from a California factory, a business is churning them out in Japan – where there’s even a doll brothel – and a similar establishment has recently opened up in Paris.

‘I don’t advocate this; this is not an advocacy film,’ she tells DailyMail.com. ‘I’m not saying this is the way to go, this is right or wrong or you shouldn’t; I’m just showing that this exists in the world. Not only that, it’s growing, and we’re going to have to deal with that.’

====== 1586 ========

ROLLS ROYCE REVEALS FIRST FABERGÉ EGG IN A CENTURY

Rolls-Royce and Fabergé have revealed what is only the second 'Imperial' Fabergé egg to be made in a century.

The anonymous owner is described as 'a great collector of both brands' - although neither of them will reveal how much they paid.

Just 50 pre-1917 Imperial Eggs were made made for the Russian Tsars Alexander III and Nicholas II as Easter gifts for their wives and mothers.

The 'exceptionally precious' creations are some of the most valuable and coveted objects ever to have been made.

The newest egg features an intricate mechanism that allows the egg to open, revealing a crystal version of the Spirit of Ecstasy, the mascot that has adorned Rolls-Royce motor cars since 1911.

Scroll down for video

The egg features an intricate mechanism that allows it to open, revealing a crystal version of the Spirit of Ecstasy, the mascot that has adorned Rolls-Royce motor cars since 1911.

The design, conceived by Rolls-Royce Designers Stefan Monro and Alex Innes and rendered by Fabergé Lead Designer Liisa Tallgren, has been brought to life by Fabergé's Paul Jones.

The 'Spirit of Ecstasy' Fabergé Egg, the second to be commissioned in the 'Imperial Class' since 1917 – a category reserved only for Fabergé's most illustrious creations

A team of seven craftspeople from Fabergé made it over the source of the two year project.

The Egg rests on an engine-turned, hand-engraved, purple enamel base of 18 karat white gold.

Arms of rose gold define the shape of the Egg, acting as a protective chamber for the figure inside.

It is operated using a 'discreet' discreet lever at the base of the stand.

WHAT IS A FABERGE EGG? The Fabergé eggs are the intricately created Easter gifts crafted for Russian Tsars to give to their wives and mothers. Virtually all were manufactured under the supervision of Peter Carl Fabergé between 1885 and 1917. The most famous are the 50 'Imperial' eggs, 43 of which survive, made for the Russian Tsars Alexander III and Nicholas II as Easter gifts for their wives and mothers. An Imperial Easter Egg with a magnificent Basket of Flowers commissioned by Tsar Nicholas II for Tsarina Alexandra Feodorovna 1901 and a Mosaic Egg a gift from the Tsar to the Tsarina 1914, from The Royal Faberge exhibition at Buckingham Palace The Coronation Faberge egg is displayed during the exhibition 'Treasures of Imperial Russia' in Croatia's Adriatic town of Dubrovnik...The Coronation Faberge egg is displayed during the exhibition 'Treasures of Imperial Russia' in Croatia's Adriatic town of Dubrovnik. The egg of gold, enamel, platinum, diamonds, rubies and rock chrystal was presented by Emperor Nicholas 2nd to his wife, Empress Alexandra Feodorovna for Easter 1897. The first Imperial Fabergé egg was created for Tsar Alexander III (of the Russian royal family), who commissioned it as a gift for his wife, Empress Maria Feodorovna. She loved the egg so much that Alexander commissioned a new one for every Easter afterward until his death in 1894, after which his son Nicholas II kept up the tradition, gifting two a year: one to his wife and one to his mother. Left, the Bay Tree egg is a jewelled nephrite and enameled Easter egg made under the supervision of the Russian jeweller Peter Carl Fabergé in 1911, for Nicholas II of Russia who presented the egg to his mother, the Dowager Empress Maria Feodorovna, on 12 April 1911. Right, The egg 'Lilies', made by jeweler Carl Faberge by request of the last Russian Emperor Nicholas II, as a present to his wife in 1898 is displayed at an exhibition in the museum Bellerive in Zurich, Switzerland, Wednesday, June 7, 2006. Every year, the eggs got more and more elaborate, and the design always would be a surprise to the family. Ten Eggs were produced from 1885 to 1893 during the reign of Emperor Alexander III; a further 40 were created during the rule of his dutiful son, Nicholas II, two each year – one for his mother the dowager, the second for his wife. Tsar Nicholas II was also a patron of Rolls-Royce Motor Cars. Of the 50 eggs that Fabergé lovingly crafted, only 24 now survive, making them among the rarest and most fabulous of the world's jewels. When one of the eggs went up for auction at Christie's in 1994, it sold for a staggering $5.5 million.

This opens the egg, revealing the figurine of the Spirit of Ecstasy, hand-sculpted in frosted rock crystal.

The rose gold vanes, embellished with nearly 10 carats of round white diamonds, are alongside swathes of natural amethyst weighing over 390 carats, specially selected for its colour saturation and quality.

The purple hue of the enamel and amethyst provide a playful nod to the use of colour found in Fabergé's heritage, the firm said.

The rose gold vanes, embellished with nearly 10 carats of round white diamonds, are alongside swathes of natural amethyst weighing over 390 carats, specially selected for its colour saturation and quality.

The figurine of the Spirit of Ecstasy, hand-sculpted in frosted rock crystal, is at the center of the egg

Sean Gilbertson, Chief Executive Officer, Fabergé said, 'A unique moment in both our companies' history, the creation of the 'Spirit of Ecstasy' Egg represents the meeting of two masters of unrivalled quality and design, showcasing two globally recognised symbols – the Fabergé Egg and the Spirit of Ecstasy.'

Torsten Müller-Ötvös, Chief Executive Officer, Rolls-Royce Motor Cars, said, 'The Spirit of Ecstasy' Fabergé Egg was born from an intrinsic desire to further the realms of Bespoke personalisation.

'Responding to the continuing demands of patrons in search of unique and cherished possessions, a designer at the House of Rolls-Royce sketched an Egg, igniting a fascination that will undoubtedly become one of the most collectable items of modern times.'

The intricate design which stands at 160mm and weighs just 400g, with the Egg harnessing the 'surprise and delight' attributes for which Imperial Eggs are celebrated.

The 'Spirit of Ecstasy' Fabergé Egg adopts a highly complex operating mechanism, conceived through computer aided design and animation, developed with micro engineering.

Josina von dem Bussche-Kessell, Business Development and Global Sales Director, Fabergé added, 'Two years in the making, we are very excited to unveil this special piece to our clients and partners across the globe together with Rolls-Royce Motor Cars and are proud to continue making history by creating bespoke and unique pieces such as this.

TThe Egg will then be on public display in Fabergé's London window this Christmastime.

====== 1587 ========

DROOLING OVER POLDARK? WHY THE SEXUAL OBJECTIFICATION OF MEN ISN'T 'JUST A BIT OF FUN'

Near-nudity and explicit images are becoming the norm in television and advertising — and men are increasingly being objectified as well as women.

This shift towards ogling male bodies may well be balancing the scales between men and women.

However, important questions remain over the morality of objectifying any person, regardless of their sex.

In an article for The Conversation, Dr Peter Lucas, Senior Lecturer in Philosophy at the University of Central Lancashire explains how this latest phenomenon is more than 'a bit of fun' and could usher in a new era of double-standards.

Scroll down for video

Near-nudity and explicit images are becoming the norm in television and advertising, and men are increasingly being objectified as well as women, with hit show Poldark (pictured) often including semi-nude shots

The idea that advertising, entertainment and news media are guilty of objectifying women is familiar enough to most of us.

But recently the balance seems to have shifted, with concerns being expressed about the potential objectification of male actors in drama series such as Bodyguard and Poldark.

So are liberated and independent women who decry the objectification of women, but are thrilled by shots of male bodies on TV, guilty of double standards?

Compared to the acres of taut flesh on display in coverage of, say, Olympic swimming, the odd glimpse of a firm set of abs or a muscled thigh in a BBC drama seems almost trivial.

Yet context is everything.

Most of us are comfortable with displays of nudity on the beach or around the hotel pool that would not be acceptable in the office, so acceptability cannot be measured by square inches of naked flesh.

If nudity is dramatically integral to a scene in some way – in a scene of tender, non-sexual intimacy as much as in a sex scene – then it can't be condemned as simply 'gratuitous'.

Nor is a sexualised audience response necessarily inappropriate.

Comedy, horror and sentiment all have a legitimate place in drama, and all of them provoke emotional and bodily responses.

Why not eroticism also? If a dramatic presentation of a sexual relationship fails to ring true because the performances lack 'chemistry' the drama will fail as drama.

Where chemistry is present, it will naturally provoke an audience response and, in this case, blanket puritanical condemnation is misplaced.

But, of course, feminist concerns about objectification were never really a matter of blanket puritanical condemnation. So what are the concerns really all about?

Objectified women

Sexual objectification typically takes one of two forms.

In the first, eroticised depictions of female bodies present women as mere resources – nothing more than 'eye candy' for male sexual gratification.

Such portrayals encourage more general exploitative attitudes towards women. By implicitly denying women's agency, they appear to legitimise coercive behaviour and in extreme cases sexual violence.

In the second, women's agency is not ignored but actively recruited for oppressive purposes.

In this case, rather than reducing women to the status of mere resources, the objectifying content has the effect of scripting their behaviour – tacitly promoting norms and stereotypes of conduct geared to the sexual gratification of men.

Women are invited to play along with the roles allotted to them, consenting to, and even enthusiastically embracing, treatment that is in reality exploitative.

Objectification in this sense works by colonising women's identities. It is subtly ideological rather than brutally coercive.

Producers of Love Island (pictured) stress that it does not pretend to hold a mirror up to life, but provides an idealised and in their own words 'aspirational' portrayal

Flipping the male gaze

So, what of the objectification of men, and the existence of an apparent double standard?

If we only think in terms of the first form of objectification, and the consumption of 'eye candy', we are likely to conclude that the sexual objectification of men is a relatively trivial matter.

Prevailing physical, political and economic power inequalities are such that in practice a man's agency is much less likely than a woman's to be overridden.

Consequently, the objectification of men is much less likely to result in sexual violence. To this extent, a double standard might be thought tolerable.

However, in relation to the second form of objectification – where damaging norms and stereotypes are promoted and internalised – it's difficult to defend the double standard.

There seems to be no good reason to think that men are any less suggestible and compliant than women are when it comes to 'normalising' media representations.

Young and impressionable men in particular may be as biddable and eager to play along as their female counterparts.

Consider the way men are presented on programmes such as ITV's Love Island.

The producers of the programme stress that it does not pretend to hold a mirror up to life, but provides an idealised and in their own words 'aspirational' portrayal.

But when narcissism, individualism, materialism and manipulation are presented as aspirational, audiences are likely to find themselves emulating behaviour that is incompatible with healthy relationships and a fulfilling life.

Audience appetites

Objectifying media content is sometimes defended on the basis that it doesn't play an ideological role but only caters to the preexisting appetites of its audience.

However, even in much more neutral contexts, such as fashion and car magazines, such arguments don't stand up.

It is no doubt true that magazines are usually read by people who have a preexisting interest in their content.

But most people will be familiar with the experience of picking up a magazine and finding they have suddenly developed a keen interest in which £200,000 supercar is really most desirable.

If it didn't work that way, no one would loan £200,000 supercars to journalists.

Clearly, media representations do far more than cater to preexisting appetites.

They actively shape what we aspire to, what we are prepared to consent to, and the ways we spend our time and money in pursuit of what we (consequently) want.

Advertising, entertainment and news media play a significant ideological role in our lives.

Power, as Foucault observed, is insidious and productive.

It typically operates not by overt interdiction or coercion, but by creatively and 'consensually' shaping our self-conceptions and (thereby) our views of what is normal and desirable.

So, we should be concerned about the sexual objectification of men.

The real issue though is not women's responses to eroticised drama, nor the feelings of the male actors involved, nor (realistically) the possibility that such scenes might lead to a significant rise in sexual violence against men.

The issue is that the ideological scripting of men's behaviour is coming to be as all-pervasive as the ideological scripting of women's behaviour.

At the same time as young men are being encouraged to be increasingly narcissistic and materialistic, they are experiencing unprecedented levels of perfectionism-driven social anxiety and mental illness.

This is perhaps understandable, given that they are being bombarded with a vastly greater quantity and intensity of objectifying media content than previous generations ever had to contend with.

Peter Lucas is a senior lecturer at University of Central Lancashire.

This article was originally published on The Conversation.

====== 1588 ========

'GENTLE GIANT' BASKING SHARKS CAN JUMP AS HIGH AND FAST AS GREAT WHITES

While they might be intimidating to look at, basking sharks are well known to be gentle giants that spend much of their time sluggishly scouring the ocean for small prey.

But, it appears they’ve been hiding some pretty impressive skills all along.

In an astonishing discovery, scientists have captured footage of basking sharks breaching just like great white sharks – and in doing so, the lumbering creatures can hit speeds faster than even an Olympic swimmer.

Scroll down for video

Researchers from Trinity College Dublin managed to capture the incredible phenomenon on video off the coast of Malin Head, Ireland, and use the footage to estimate their vertical swimming speeds at the moment they left the water

‘The impressive turn of speed that we found basking sharks exhibit shows how much we are yet to learn about marine animals – even the largest, most conspicuous species have surprises in store, if we’re willing to look,’ says co-author Dr Nick Payne, Assistant Professor in Zoology at Trinity College Dublin.

Researchers from Trinity College Dublin managed to capture the incredible phenomenon on video off the coast of Malin Head, Ireland, and use the footage to estimate their vertical swimming speeds at the moment they left the water.

They also attached a data recording device to one of the sharks to measure its speed and movement first-hand.

And, the data show they have incredible abilities.

In an astonishing discovery, scientists have captured footage of basking sharks breaching just like great white sharks – and in doing so, the lumbering creatures can hit speeds faster than even an Olympic swimmer

In one breach event, the shark accelerated from a depth of 28 meters to the surface in just nine seconds, and with just 10 beats of its tail.

When it broke through the surface, it hit an angle of nearly 90 degrees and reached a peak height of 1.2 meters above the water.

The shark hit a top speed of about 5.1 meters per second in the whole process, achieving a six-fold increase in tail-beat frequency, the researchers say.

This is more than twice as fast as the average competitor in the men’s Olympic 50 meter freestyle swim.

The videos show the basking sharks can hit speeds and heights matching those achieved by great white sharks.

While they might be intimidating to look at, basking sharks are well known to be gentle giants that spend much of their time sluggishly scouring the ocean for small prey. File photo

WHAT ARE BASKING SHARKS? Basking sharks are the second-largest fish alive after whale sharks. While they typically grow to 20-26 feet long, they’ve been known to hit staggering lengths of up to 32 feet. But, these giants are relatively harmless to humans. According to the NOAA, they ‘are considered passive and no danger to humans other than that posed by their large size and rough skin.’ They feed on zooplankton, swimming slowly just beneath the surface with their mouths open in a terrifyingly wide gape to filter the tiny organisms from seawater.

‘This finding does not mean that basking sharks are secretly fierce predators tearing round at high speed; they are still gentle giants munching away happily on zooplankton,’ said Dr Jonathan Houghton, Senior Lecturer in Marine Biology at Queen's University Belfast.

‘It simply shows there is far more to these sharks than the huge swimming sieves we are so familiar with.

‘It’s a bit like discovering cows are as fast as wolves (when you’re not looking).’

====== 1589 ========

MASSIVE STONE STRUCTURES IN THE MIDDLE OF CHILE'S ATACAMA DESERT USED FOR 'CEREMONIAL PURPOSES'

Researchers have discovered the remains of an ancient ceremonial site in the Atacama Desert – one of the driest places in the world.

The stone complex holds several signs of the rituals that took place there thousands of years ago, including a gold-plated vulture head, mortars and grinding slabs used to prepare pigments and hallucinogens, and more than two dozen infant burials.

The discovery in the Chilean desert, coupled with the reinterpretation of another nearby site, suggests the harsh region was home to hunter-gatherer communities that developed complex ceremonial traditions over the years.

The stone complex holds signs of the rituals that took place there, including mortars and grinding slabs used to prepare pigments and hallucinogens, and more than two dozen infant burials. An infant buried with the gold plaque is indicated with the black arrow

The site, called Tulan-52, is estimated to have thrived in the desert’s largest salt flat from around 1110-900BC until 550-360 BC, according to the new study published to the journal Antiquity.

Not far away sits another site, Tulan-52, that existed nearly two millennia earlier.

The latest research has uncovered a number of similarities between the two that indicate increasing complexity over the years.

‘Tulan-54 has all the diagnostic characteristics of a fully developed ceremonial center of the Early Formative in the Salar de Atacama region,’ the researchers explain.

‘These include a large and specific type of architecture that required considerable expenditure of energy for its design, construction and maintenance, along with significant evidence for food preparation and consumption, the production of personal ornaments, and deposits of high value.’

In two of the burials, they also found large gold artifacts: a gold-plated wooden vulture head with green malachite eyes and crest (left), and an elaborate golden plaque (right).

The stone complex housed several rooms, in which they found 10 hearths with pits, and 28 ‘richly endowed’ infant pit-burials.

In two of the burials, they also found large gold artifacts: a gold-plated wooden vulture head with green malachite eyes and crest, and an elaborate golden plaque.

‘Numerous mortars and grinding slabs attest to the intense preparation of pigments, foodstuffs and beverages, as well as hallucinogens made from the seeds of cebil and maize, both imported from the lowlands of north-east Argentina,’ the researchers note.

Just 50 meters away, a cemetery was eventually built.

Similar items were found at the nearby Tulan-52, including animal bones, mortars and grinding stones, as shown above

The latest research has uncovered a number of similarities between the two that indicate increasing complexity over the years. Fragments of bone artifacts and ornaments from Tulan-52 are shown above

Similar findings at the nearby Tulan-52, including animal bones, mortars and grinding stones, and niches framed with pillars, now suggest that this earlier site may have been a ‘prototype of ceremonial centers.’

Not far away sits another site, Tulan-52, that existed nearly two millennia earlier=

‘It can be surmised, therefore, that the major innovations which took place during the two millennia that separate Tulan-52 from Tulan-54 – such as the increasing use of domestic camelids for long-distance transport, plant cultivation, use of hallucinogens, pottery and gold metallurgy – primarily served the needs of increasingly elaborate rituals and demanding elites,’ the researchers wrote.

‘Indeed, considering the very slow increase in the consumption of domestic plants and camelids between the Puripica-Tulan and Tilocalar phases, alongside the continuing importance of wild plant and animal species during the later phase, it is clear that subsistence needs were not the primary factor of this “Neolithisation process.”’

====== 1590 ========

SOLAR-POWERED YACHT WHICH CAN CRUISE THE ENTIRE GLOBE WITHOUT STOPPING TO REFUEL UNVEILED

A futuristic, solar-powered yacht which can cruise the globe without stopping to refuel has been unveiled by its Swiss designers.

The electric SolarImpact yacht is longer than a blue whale and topped with enough solar panels to cover a regulation-size tennis court.

The boat sleeps ten people, on top of accommodation for the small crew, and is loaded with artificial intelligence that allows it to be driven by a single person.

Scroll down for video

Pictured is an artist's impression of the all-electric SolarImpact yacht. The solar-powered yacht can cruise the entire globe without stopping to refuel

SOLARIMPACT YACHT STATS Length: 78ft (24m) Battery: 800-kWh providing 10 hours of cruising Top speed: 22 knots (25 miles/40km per hour) Accommodates: Ten guests plus a small crew Solar panel coverage: 3,200 square feet (300 sq m) on the roof Price and release date: Unknown

The yacht is the result of five years of research by Zurich firm SolarImpact Yacht AG, which has not revealed an expected price or release date for its design.

The company claims using solar panels to power the craft cuts a significant amount of the noise generated by traditional engines.

An 800-kWh battery on board provides around 10 hours of cruising capability, which can be extended by topping up the battery from the sun during the trip.

The 78-foot (24-metre) yacht has more than 3,200 square feet (300 sq m) of solar panels on its roof, which can serve as the vessel's sole power source if conditions allow.

If sailing on a cloudier day, the vessel is loaded with a pair of 65-kW (87-hp) diesel engines on board as a backup.

It also boasts two torpedo-shaped buoyancy bodies beneath the water surface which SolarImpact Yacht AG claims to reduce the rolling and heeling of the yacht by up to 90 per cent in choppy conditions.

The electric SolarImpact yacht is longer than a blue whale, and its roof is topped with enough solar panels to cover a full-sized tennis court (artist's impression)

Pictured is an artist's impression of the SolarImpact yacht's steering wheel and control panel. The boat has enough beds for ten people, including accommodation for a small crew. It is loaded with artificial intelligence that allows it to be driven by one person

The boat features beds for ten people across four double rooms and a master suite, and is also equipped with crew accommodation.

The concept was unveiled at last week's Cannes Yachting Festival where a full 3D-model allowed potential buyers the chance to explore the vessel using virtual reality.

It is not the first futuristic yacht design unveiled this week.

The yacht is the result of five years of research by created by Zurich firm SolarImpact Yacht AG, which has not revealed an expected price or release date for its design

The yacht has more than 3,200 square feet (300 sq m) of solar panels on its roof, which can serve as the vessel's sole power source if conditions allow. If sailing on a cloudier day, the vessel is loaded with a pair of 65-kW (87-hp) diesel engines on board as a backup

A team of British engineers on Monday released designs for a £40 million ($52 million) eco-yacht that collects plastic from the ocean and recycles it.

The 'Ocean Saviour' is designed to scoop up a staggering five tonnes of plastic pollution each day and will become the first vessel ever to power itself by recycling ocean waste into fuel.

Plastic will be chopped finely, milled and processed through onboard machinery which will destroy it completely with minimal atmospheric pollution.

Designs for a £40 million ($52 million) new eco-yacht were also unveiled this week. The Ocean Saviour (artist's impression) will collect plastic from the ocean and recycle it as it sails. It features two plastic-capturing arms that funnel waste into a conveyor belt through an opening in the boat's hull

Described as 'the combine harvester of the seas', it has been designed with two booms on either side of the 70 metre-long (230ft) vessel which will funnel floating pollution into a conveyor.

The pioneering plans, revealed today at Southampton Boat Show, lay out how this will then bring the ocean waste onboard the Ocean Saviour, where it will be recycled using a high tech process.

The finely-chopped product will then be used to fuel the vessel, meaning it can power itself for months on end.

Richard Roberts, of Southampton-based TheYachtMarket, is the project's co-founder and said he was inspired to create the ship after watching Blue Planet.

The 'Ocean Saviour' is designed to scoop up a staggering five tonnes of plastic pollution each day and will become the first vessel ever to power itself by recycling ocean waste into fuel. Pictured is an artist's impression of the conveyor belt through which the vessel picks up plastic pollution

He said the show's shocking portrayal of waste in the oceans encouraged him 'to do something practical' about the problem.

'It's staggering to think there is currently over five trillion pieces of plastic in the ocean which is having a huge detrimental impact on our ecosystem and the ocean's biodiversity,' he said.

'It's essential we remove plastic before it breaks down into micro plastics and, through Ocean Saviour, we aim to help eradicate the ocean of this problem.

'They should be going up and down our coastlines all the time - they could be the combine harvesters of the seas.'

====== 1591 ========

NISSAN TRANSFORMS PICK-UP TRUCK INTO A MOBILE SPACE OBSERVATORY

Nissan has transformed a pick-up truck into a world class mobile space observatory.

The Navara Dark Sky Concept allows astronomers to gaze at the universe from hard-to-reach locations away from the nighttime glow of urban areas.

It tows a bespoke trailer which houses a world-leading telescope giving detailed views beyond the rings of Saturn, to distant galaxies, nebulae and supernovas.

Nissan has transformed a pick-up truck into a world class mobile space observatory. The Navara Dark Sky Concept lets astronomers view the universe from hard-to-reach locations away from the nighttime glow of urban areas

NAVARA DARK SKY CONCEPT STATS The Nissan has four-wheel drive, 20-inch (50 cm) wheels with off-road tyres and high-intensity headlights. Under the bonnet is a 2.3-litre twin-turbocharged diesel. The Navara and trailer both feature portable EV battery packs. When docked in place, the battery packs are constantly in charging mode and ready for use. Additional high-tech features include Wi-Fi, a laptop station, and UHF (Ultra High Frequency) radio transmission to relay data instantaneously worldwide.

The one-off Nissan, developed in the UK in collaboration with the European Space Agency, was unveiled at today's Hannover Motor Show in Germany.

The trailer module has a special refrigerated atmosphere, which allows the telescope to remain stable and calibrated at the optimum temperature in transit to any location.

Once at the desired destination, the trailer module's mechanised roof opens to focus the telescope on the night sky.

ESA is mapping the stars with unprecedented precision using its Gaia satellite, which has already observed more than one billion stars.

Fred Jansen, ESA's senior mission manager for Gaia, said: 'The Nissan Navara Dark Sky Concept allows observations to take place in very remote places, avoiding light pollution, while also transporting telescopes safely and easily.

'Telescopes like the one in the trailer are needed in studies of planets and stars in our galaxy, allowing Earth-based follow-up campaigns enabled by the Gaia data.'

It tows a bespoke trailer which houses a world-leading telescope giving detailed views beyond the rings of Saturn, to distant galaxies, nebulae and supernovas

The one-off Nissan, developed in the UK in collaboration with the European Space Agency, was unveiled at the Hannover Motor Show in Germany

The trailer module has a special refrigerated atmosphere, which allows the telescope to remain stable and calibrated at the optimum temperature in transit to any location

Nissan plans to work with ESA to donate the telescope as part of their educational outreach initiatives following the Hannover Motor Show

WHAT IS THE EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY'S GAIA PROBE AND WHAT IS DESIGNED TO DO? Gaia is an ambitious mission to chart a three-dimensional map of our galaxy, the Milky Way, and in the process reveal its composition, formation and evolution. Gaia has been circling the sun nearly a million miles beyond Earth's orbit since its launch by the European Space Agency (ESA) in December 2013. On its journey, the probe has been discreetly snapping pictures of the Milky Way, identifying stars from smaller galaxies long ago swallowed up by our own. Tens of thousands of previously undetected objects are expected to be discovered by Gaia, including asteroids that may one day threaten Earth, planets circling nearby stars, and exploding supernovas. Artist's impression of Gaia mapping the stars of the Milky Way. Gaia maps the position of the Milky Way's stars in a couple of ways. It pinpoints the location of the stars but the probe can also plot their movement, by scanning each star about 70 times Astrophysicists also hope to learn more about the distribution of dark matter, the invisible substance thought to hold the observable universe together. They also plan to test Albert Einstein's general theory of relativity by watching how light is deflected by the sun and its planets. The satellite's billion-pixel camera, the largest ever in space, is so powerful it would be able to gauge the diameter of a human hair at a distance of 621 miles (1,000 km). This means nearby stars have been located with unprecedented accuracy. Gaia maps the position of the Milky Way's stars in a couple of ways. Gaia’s all-sky view of our Milky Way Galaxy and neighbouring galaxies, based on measurements of nearly 1.7 billion stars. The map shows the total brightness and colour of stars observed by the ESA satellite in each portion of the sky between July 2014 and May 2016. Brighter regions indicate denser concentrations of especially bright stars, while darker regions correspond to patches of the sky where fewer bright stars are observed. The colour representation is obtained by combining the total amount of light with the amount of blue and red light recorded by Gaia in each patch of the sky. It pinpoints the location of the stars but the probe can also plot their movement, by scanning each star about 70 times. This is what allows scientists to calculate the distance between Earth and each star, which is a crucial measure. In September 2016, ESA released the first batch of data collected by Gaia, which included information on the brightness and position of over a billion stars. In April 2018, this was expanded to high-precision measurements of almost 1.7 billion stars.

To negotiate tricky terrain, the Nissan has four-wheel drive, 20-inch (50 cm) wheels with off-road tyres and high-intensity headlights. The overall ride height has been raised for improved ground clearance.

Under the bonnet is a 2.3-litre twin-turbocharged diesel with enough pulling power to handle the trailer's additional weight.

The Navara and trailer both feature portable EV battery packs, which make use of Nissan's existing electric-vehicle battery technology.

When docked in place, the battery packs are constantly in charging mode and ready for use.

Additional high-tech features include Wi-Fi, a laptop station and UHF (Ultra High Frequency) radio transmission to relay data instantaneously to anywhere in the world.

Once at the desired destination, the trailer module's mechanised roof opens to focus the telescope on the night sky. ESA is mapping the stars with unprecedented precision using its Gaia satellite, which has already observed more than one billion stars

Fred Jansen, ESA's senior mission manager for Gaia, said: 'The Nissan Navara Dark Sky Concept allows observations to take place in very remote places, avoiding light pollution, while also transporting telescopes safely and easily'

'Telescopes like the one in the trailer are needed in studies of planets and stars in our galaxy, allowing Earth-based follow-up campaigns enabled by the Gaia data,' he added

Parking is made simple thanks to the cameras which give the driver a bird's-eye-view around the vehicle.

There are eight radar units, on each corner of the vehicle and trailer, which update the driver on the vehicle's surroundings through the touch screen on the dashboard.

At the heart of the trailer is the ultrahigh-power PlaneWave telescope which uses a 16 inch (40 cm) primary mirror to focus on the night's sky.

Since red light affects human night vision least, both the vehicle and trailer exclusively use red lighting to avoid visual disruption during observations.

The Navara also has ProPILOT, which enhances the driver's control by combining Nissan's Intelligent Cruise Control and Steering Assist technologies.

To negotiate tricky terrain, the Nissan has four-wheel drive, 20-inch (50 cm) wheels with off-road tyres and high-intensity headlights. The overall ride height has been raised for improved ground clearance

Under the bonnet is a 2.3-litre twin-turbocharged diesel with plenty of pulling power to handle the trailer's additional weight. Additional high-tech features include Wi-Fi, a laptop station and UHF radio transmission to relay data instantaneously to anywhere in the world

The Navara and trailer both feature portable EV battery packs, which make use of Nissan's tried and tested electric-vehicle battery technology. When docked in place, the battery packs are constantly in charging mode and ready for use

This maintains the distance with the vehicle in front while keeping the car and rig centered during single-lane driving – even on curves.

Ashwani Gupta, senior vice president of Nissan's light commercial vehicle business, said: 'The Nissan Navara Dark Sky Concept is a brilliant example of Nissan serving as an authentic partner, empowering our customers to go anywhere.

'Through Nissan Intelligent Mobility and ProPILOT, we are creating the best solutions for the next frontiers of business, no matter how complex the commercial need.'

Nissan plans to work with ESA to donate the telescope as part of their educational outreach initiatives following the Hannover Motor Show.

Parking is made simple thanks to the cameras which give the driver a bird's-eye-view around the vehicle. There are eight radar units, on each corner of the vehicle and trailer, which update the driver on the vehicle's surroundings through the touch screen on the dashboard

At the heart of the trailer is the ultrahigh-power PlaneWave telescope which uses a 40-centimetre primary mirror to focus on the night's sky

At the heart of the trailer is the ultrahigh-power PlaneWave telescope which uses a 16 inch (40 cm) primary mirror to focus on the night's sky

====== 1592 ========

ANCIENT MARS WAS HOME TO LARGE BODIES OF MOVING WATER, STUDY SUGGESTS

Massive floods that loomed more than 65 feet high may once have swept the surface of Mars.

This is according to a new study, which argues that many of the rock depositions on the red planet are the result of large bodies of moving water, not just ‘a puny river.’

Researchers say Mars may once have been home to global ice much like that which existed on Earth during the Pleistocene, giving way to huge outburst floods that shaped the features we see today.

Scroll down for video

Four units within a stretch of rock in the Gale Crater each represent different types of deposition, according to the new research, and ‘all of these packages involved water.' Researchers say it suggests there were large-scale floods

In the new study, researchers examined a 400-meter stretch of sedimentary rock found in Mars’ Gale Crater.

The region has been explored in part by the Curiosity rover and the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, and contains rocks thought to be 3.7 to 4.1 billion years old.

Four units within this rock each represent different types of deposition, according to the new research, and ‘all of these packages involved water,’ says Ezat Heydari of Jackson State University.

In one spot, known as the Hummocky Plain Unit, ridges filled with rounded cobbles and cross beds were found to reach 4 meters (13 feet) high.

There, the grains of sediment get up to 20 centimeters in size.

In one spot, known as the Hummocky Plain Unit, ridges filled with rounded cobbles and cross beds were found to reach 4 meters (13 feet) high. This can be seen as the grayish-green above

The Mastcam image above shows a conglomerate with grains up to 10 centimeters in diameter, some of which are well-rounded, in further evidence of moving water

‘These ridges are asymmetric,’ Heydari says. ‘In other words, they were formed by one directional current.’

According to the researcher, creating such features would have required large-scale flooding, with water upwards of 10-20 meters deep.

‘That’s one of the reasons I say these deposits are related to floods, rather than a puny river,’ Heydari says.

The sedimentary rocks seen in the Gale Crater may have been transported there through processes similar to that which took place on Earth thousands of years ago during the Pleistocene.

Massive floods that loomed more than 65 feet high may once have swept the surface of Mars. This is according to a new study, which argues that many of the rock depositions on the red planet are the result of large bodies of moving water, not just ‘a puny river.’ File photo

HOW DOES A LAKE ON MARS CHANGE WHAT WE KNOW ABOUT LIFE ON THE RED PLANET? Liquid water is known to be one of the key components to life as we know it, and scientists have spent decades searching for it on Mars. If a large, permanent of body of water exists on the red planet then it has a good chance of hosting microbial life. Researchers had long speculated liquid water is present under the planet's surface, but lacked solid evidence to confirm this. A new finding from a team of Italian scientists suggests a subsurface lake that stretches 12 miles (20km) long is hidden beneath the Martian south pole. The discovery is the first evidence of a lake of liquid water on Mars that still exists today – an environment scientists believe is ideal for the growth of life. While the lake exists at a hostile temperature of -68°C (-90°F), microbes could grow there, as they do in similar environments on Earth, scientists said. Dr Brendan Burns, a microbiologist and astrobiologist from The University of New South Wales, who was not involved in the research, said: 'While the surface of Mars is inhospitable, there is the fascinating possibility that microbial life could survive and flourish in sub-glacial Martian waters.'

‘On both planets, one hemisphere was covered by ice – northern Hemisphere on Earth, versus the Southern Hemisphere in Mars – and the other hemisphere was warm,’ Heydari says.

The new report follows research published earlier this year that offered what was said to be the first evidence that liquid water still exists on Mars today.

Scientists at the Italian National Institute for Astrophysics revealed the presence of the underground reservoir this summer.

The team says it spans 12 miles (20km) and is buried a mile (1.6km) beneath the surface.

But, studying this feature won’t be easy.

As of now, the technology on the Mars rovers and landers cannot drill deep enough to reach such a deeply-buried lake.

====== 1593 ========

UBER IPO PROPOSALS VALUE IT AT WHOPPING $120 BILLION

Uber has been valued at $120billion by banks which are bidding to take it public next year.

The company accepted proposals from Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan last month which puts it on track to achieve the biggest ever IPO when it eventually goes public late next year.

The Wall Street Journal reported details of the proposals on Tuesday morning. Neither bank nor Uber has commented since.

It means that the company will only have to float 20 percent of its stock to beat the current record for the largest IPO which is held by Alibaba.

It marks an astonishing turnaround for the company which named a new CEO last August after a series of embarrassing public scandals and lawsuits.

Uber has been valued at $120billion by banks which are bidding to take it public next year

Uber has fought over the last year to regain stakeholder faith after a series of public scandals and corporate restructuring.

BIGGEST US IPOs Alibaba: $21.8billion, 2014 Visa: $17.9billion, 2008 EnelSpa: $16.5billion, 1999 Facebook: $16billion, 2012 General Motors: $15.8billion, 2010

Its largest stakeholder is SoftBank Group Corp which purchased shares from other investors in January this year at a discounted price after the departure of then CEO Travis Kalanick.

Softbank is enthusiastic about the planned IPO.

Its most recent valuation, before the IPO proposals, put its worth at between $68 billion and $72billion.

Kalanick still owns seven percent of the company compared to Softbank's 15.

Other investors include venture capitalist firms and notable individuals including Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos and Jay Z.

Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi (left) was brought in to replace embattled founder Travis Kalanick (right) last August

Uber is one of a batch of privately held companies in Silicon Valley known as unicorns.

They share one common characteristic - they are all valued at over $1billion but none is publicly traded.

Others include Airbnb, Elon Musk's SpaceX, WeWork, Pinterest and Lyft, which is racing to go public before its competitor.

On Tuesday, The Wall Street Journal reported that Lyft had selected underwriters JP Morgan Chase to take it public in the first half of 2019.

It was valued at $15billion earlier this year.

Amazon went public in 1997 at an underwritten price of $384million. By the end of trading on its first day, it was valued at $438million.

Alibaba went public in 2014 at $21billion. A soon-following option to buy additional shares boosted its worth $25billion.

Other notable US IPOs in the last decade have included Facebook, Visa and General Motors.

====== 1594 ========

RESEARCHER CLAIMS TRIPPY 1980S VIDEO HELP EXPLAIN ONE OF THE BIGGEST MYSTERIES IN SCIENCE

Explaining consciousness is one of the hardest problems in science and philosophy. Recent neuroscientific discoveries suggest that a solution could be within reach – but grasping it will mean rethinking some familiar ideas.

Consciousness, I argue in a new paper, may be caused by the way the brain generates loops of energetic feedback, similar to the video feedback that 'blossoms' when a video camera is pointed at its own output.

I first saw video feedback in the late 1980s and was instantly entranced.

Scroll down for video

A Cardiff University professor says consciousness could may be caused by the way the brain generates loops of 'energetic feedback' rather like a video feedback loop.

Someone plugged the signal from a clunky video camera into a TV and pointed the lens at the screen, creating a grainy spiralling tunnel.

Then the camera was tilted slightly and the tunnel blossomed into a pulsating organic kaleidoscope.

Video feedback is a classic example of complex dynamical behaviour. It arises from the way energy circulating in the system interacts chaotically with the electronic components of the hardware.

As an artist and VJ in the 1990s, I would often see this hypnotic effect in galleries and clubs.

But it was a memorable if unnerving experience during an LSD-induced trip that got me thinking.

I hallucinated almost identical imagery, only intensely saturated with colour.

It struck me then there might be a connection between these recurring patterns and the operation of the mind.

Fast forward 25 years and I'm a university professor still trying to understand how the mind works.

Our knowledge of the relationship between the mind and brain has advanced hugely since the 1990s when a new wave of scientific research into consciousness took off.

But a widely accepted scientific theory of consciousness remains elusive.

The two leading contenders – Stanislas Dehaene's Global Neuronal Workspace Model and Giulio Tononi's Integrated Information Theory – both claim that consciousness results from information processing in the brain, from neural computation of ones and zeros, or bits.

I doubt this claim for several reasons.

First, there is little agreement among scientists about exactly what information is.

Second, when scientists refer to information they are often actually talking about the way energetic activity is organised in physical systems.

Video feedback may be the nearest we have to visualising what conscious processing in the brain is like. Pictured a still from video feedback sequence. Robert Pepperell, 2018

Third, brain imaging techniques such as fMRI, PET and EEG don't detect information in the brain, but changes in energy distribution and consumption.

Brains, I argue, are not squishy digital computers – there is no information in a neuron.

Brains are delicate organic instruments that turn energy from the world and the body into useful work that enables us to survive.

Brains process energy, not information.

Recognising that brains are primarily energy processors is the first step to understanding how they support consciousness. The next is rethinking energy itself.

We are all familiar with energy but few of us worry about what it is. Even physicists tend not to.

They treat it as an abstract value in equations describing physical processes, and that suffices.

But when Aristotle coined the term energeia he was trying to grasp the actuality of the lived world, why things in nature work in the way they do (the word 'energy' is rooted in the Greek for 'work').

This actualised concept of energy is different from, though related to, the abstract concept of energy used in contemporary physics.

HOW SOON WILL WE BE ABLE TO UPLOAD OUR MINDS TO A COMPUTER? Brain and memory preservation has been explored at length by futurists, scientists and science fiction junkies alike. Many say it falls under the category of 'transhumanism.' Transhumanism is the belief that the human body can evolve beyond its current form with the help of scientists and technology. The practice of mind uploading has been promoted by many people, including Ray Kurzweil, Google's director of engineering, who believes we will be able to upload our entire brains to computers by 2045. Similar technologies have been depicted in science fiction dramas, ranging from Netflix's Altered Carbon, to the popular series Black Mirror. Another prominent futurist, Dr Michio Kaku, believes virtual reality can be used to keep our loved ones' personalities and memories alive even after they die. Scientists and futurists have different theories about how we might be able to preserve the human brain, ranging from uploading our memories to a computer to Nectome's high-tech embalming process, which can keep it intact for thousands of years 'Imagine being able to speak to your loved one after they die ... it is possible if their personality has been downloaded onto a computer as an avatar,' he explained. These ideas haven't been met without criticism. McGill University Neuroscientist Michael Hendricks told MIT that these technologies are a 'joke.' 'I hope future people are appalled that in the 21st century, the richest and most comfortable people in history spent their money and resources trying to live forever on the backs of their descendants. I mean, it’s a joke, right? They are cartoon bad guys,' he said. Meanwhile, neuroscientist Miguel Nicolelis said recently that such technologies would be virtually impossible. 'The brain is not computable and no engineering can reproduce it,' he said. 'You can have all the computer chips in the world and you won't create a consciousness.'

When we study what energy actually is, it turns out to be surprisingly simple: it's a kind of difference. Kinetic energy is a difference due to change or motion, and potential energy is a difference due to position or tension.

Much of the activity and variety in nature occurs because of these energetic differences and the related actions of forces and work.

I call these actualised differences because they do actual work and cause real effects in the world, as distinct from abstract differences (like that between 1 and 0) which feature in mathematics and information theory. This conception of energy as actualised difference, I think, may be key to explaining consciousness.

The human brain consumes some 20% of the body's total energy budget, despite accounting for only 2% of its mass. The brain is expensive to run. Most of the cost is incurred by neurons firing bursts of energetic difference in unthinkably complex patterns of synchrony and diversity across convoluted neural pathways.

Is the human brain a squishy digital computer or a delicate organic instrument for processing energy? Installation shot of 'I am a brain', 2008. Cast of human brain in resin and metal

What is special about the conscious brain, I propose, is that some of those pathways and energy flows are turned upon themselves, much like the signal from the camera in the case of video feedback. This causes a self-referential cascade of actualised differences to blossom with astronomical complexity, and it is this that we experience as consciousness. Video feedback, then, may be the nearest we have to visualising what conscious processing in the brain is like.

The suggestion that consciousness depends on complex neural energy feedback is supported by neuroscientific evidence.

Researchers recently discovered a way to accurately index the amount of consciousness someone has.

They fired magnetic pulses through healthy, anaesthetised, and severely injured peoples' brains.

Then they measured the complexity of an EEG signal that monitored how the brains reacted.

The complexity of the EEG signal predicted the level of consciousness in the person.

And the more complex the signal the more conscious the person was.

The researchers attributed the level of consciousness to the amount of information processing going on in each brain.

But what was actually being measured in this study was the organisation of the neural energy flow (EEG measures differences of electrical energy). Therefore, the complexity of the energy flow in the brain tells us about the level of consciousness a person has.

Consciousness, I argue in a new paper, may be caused by the way the brain generates loops of energetic feedback

Also relevant is evidence from studies of anaesthesia. No-one knows exactly how anaesthetic agents annihilate consciousness.

But recent theories suggest that compounds including propofol interfere with the brain's ability to sustain complex feedback loops in certain brain areas. Without these feedback loops, the functional integration between different brain regions breaks down, and with it the coherence of conscious awareness.

What this, and other neuroscientific work I cite in the paper, suggests is that consciousness depends on a complex organisation of energy flow in the brain, and in particular on what the biologist Gerald Edelman called 'reentrant' signals. These are recursive feedback loops of neural activity that bind distant brain regions into a coherent functioning whole.

Explaining consciousness in scientific terms, or in any terms, is a notoriously hard problem. Some have worried it's so hard we shouldn't even try. But while not denying the difficulty, the task is made a bit easier, I suggest, if we begin by recognising what brains actually do.

The primary function of the brain is to manage the complex flows of energy that we rely on to thrive and survive. Instead of looking inside the brain for some undiscovered property, or 'magic sauce', to explain our mental life, we may need to look afresh at what we already know is there.

====== 1595 ========

ANCIENT EGYPTIAN RAMP USED TO DRAG HUGE STONE BLOCKS IS UNCOVERED IN A 4,500-YEAR-OLD QUARRY

A new graphic reveals the complex system of ramps and pulleys that may have been used by the Egyptians to construct the ancient pyramids.

It follows the recent discovery of Ancient Egyptian stoneworking ramps dating back 4,500 years in an alabaster quarry in the country's eastern desert.

The system raised stone blocks weighing several tonnes hundreds of feet into the air via enormous sleds, archaeologists believe.

This same technology may have allowed the Egyptians to haul blocks up steep inclines to build the Great Pyramid - the only surviving Wonder of the World.

Scroll down for video

A new graphic reveals the complex system of ramps and pulleys that may have been used by the Egyptians to construct the ancient pyramids. The system raised stone blocks weighing several tonnes hundreds of feet into the air via enormous sleds, archaeologists believe

The ancient ramp was discovered in Hatnub quarry by researchers from the French Institute for Oriental Archaeology in Cairo and the University of Liverpool.

It was flanked by two staircases lined with postholes, to which ropes were tied to drag the huge stone blocks.

Workers walked up the staircases on either side of the block, pulling the rope as they went, a system that alleviated some of the burden for the huge load.

The large wooden posts, which measured up to one-and-a-half feet (0.5 metres) thick, were key to the system, researchers said.

They allowed teams of workers to pull from below while others hauled the block from above.

It meant the ramp was inclined at double the angle that would have been considered possible, given the weight of the stones that workers were lifting.

'The arrangement allows people to be spaced up and down the ramp, and all the force to be exerted in the same direction,' Dr Roland Enmarch, of the University of Liverpool, told the Times.

The finding is significant because the stones lifted from the quarry would have been roughly the same size as those used in building the Great Pyramid.

The remains of a 4,500-year-old ramp system have been unearthed in an ancient quarry in the Eastern Desert. Experts say such a design would have alleviated some of the burden for the workers who had to pull these huge loads

Ramps used in construction were removed following completion, meaning the techniques used by the Egyptians to build the huge pyramid remain a mystery.

Researchers said the discovery is the first of its kind, and shows clear indication that it dates 'at least to Khufu's reign' – for whom the 481-foot Great Pyramid was built.

They argued it was 'plausible' to infer that the system discovered at Hatnub was the same as that used to build the Great pyramid.

'This shows that at the time the Great Pyramid was being built, this technology was also being used,' Dr Enmarch said.

Archaeologists had long assumed that the Egyptians used ramps to build the Great pyramid, but how that ramp system worked has remained a mystery for centuries.

Archaeologists may finally be a step closer to understanding how Egypt's Great Pyramid was built thousands of years ago (file photo)

It was long thought the ramps would need to lie at an angle of ten per cent at most to allow workers to drag the blocks so high.

This would have meant the ramps stretched long into the desert.

But the new find shows the ramps had an incline of up to 20 per cent, which they managed via the complex pulley system.

'This system is composed of a central ramp flanked by two staircases with numerous post holes,' Dr Yannis Gourdon, co-director of the joint mission at Hatnub, told Live Science.

'Using a sled which carried a stone block and was attached with ropes to these wooden posts, ancient Egyptians were able to pull up the alabaster blocks out of the quarry on very steep slopes of 20 percent or more.'

====== 1596 ========

TOOLS MADE FROM RED DEER ANTLER WHICH ARE BELIEVED TO 6,000-YEARS-OLD

Archaeologists have found Stone Age tools made from the antlers of red deer in an 'internationally significant' discovery in Scotland.

Two large axes and a harpoon, dating back 6,000 years, were found on a raised beach in the Highlands, researchers said.

It is believed the tools found at Tarradale on the Black Isle, the site of a late Mesolithic settlement, were used by hunter-gatherers.

The tools, used to kill and prepare seals and whales, strip bark or dig up roots, were left behind when the site was abandoned, possibly due to rising water levels.

Part of a large axe made from deer bone found by archaeologists while working on a late Mesolithic settlement at Tarradale on the Black Isle, overlooking the Beauly Firth. The tools were left behind when the site was abandoned, possibly due to rising water levels

WHAT WERE THE TOOLS USED FOR? Archaeologists found two large axes and a harpoon in the north of Scotland. Experts believe they may have been used to kill seals and whales and chop them up for meat. They were also capable of skinning bark of trees and digging up roots. The harpoon may originally have had a line attached to it to throw at wildfowl or seals sitting on the mud flats. The axes each had a hole drilled through them in order to take a wooden shaft.

The discovery is one of only three of four similar finds made in Scotland, with some of the earlier items now lost.

The Tarradale tools are the first to be found in the north of Scotland with previous finds made around Stirling and on the west coast.

The archaeological finds were made by Tarradale Through Time: Community Engagement with Archaeology in the Highlands.

It is a major three-year archaeology programme run with The North of Scotland Archaeology Society to examine the Black Isle through the ages.

Dr Eric Grant, chairman and project director of Tarradale Through Time, says the discoveries 'extended the map' of Mesolithic life in Scotland.

He said: 'These finds have local impact, are of national importance to Scotland and have international significance.

'They add to our understanding of Mesolithic people and the period. Archaeology is 99 per cent hard work but when you find items like this, it creates a buzz.

'I think the diggers, the three different people who found these three different objects will be telling their story forever.'

The tools have now been conserved by AOC Archaeology after funding was given by Historic Environment Scotland.

They were found on a narrow strip of land that had been untouched by ploughing or modern agricultural equipment.

Part of a harpoon made from the bone of a red deer. It may originally have had a line attached to throw at wildfowl or seals sitting on the mud flats of the Beauly estuary

Archaeologists work on a late Mesolithic settlement at Tarradale. The Tarradale tools are the first to be found in the north of Scotland with previous finds made around Stirling and on the west coast

As a result, some highly significant archaeological remains have survived to the present day, according to Dr Grant.

The two red deer antler axes discovered at Tarradale both contain a hole which would have been made to fit a wooden shaft.

Dr Grant added: 'Antler is very hard but also resilient and makes a surprisingly effective axe.

'We are not sure what the axes were used for but they were certainly capable of chopping up large pieces of meat from whales, seals and deer or skinning bark of trees and digging up roots.'

He said the antler harpoon may originally have had a line attached to throw at wildfowl or seals sitting on the mud flats of the Beauly estuary.

Such tools are generally not found in England but similar artefacts have been found in Denmark and other parts of Europe.

The tools have not been dated given analysis would damage part of the artefact but radiocarbon tests on organic material found at the same site were able to place the tools in time.

The two red deer antler axes discovered at Tarradale both contain a hole which would have been made to fit a wooden shaft. Pictured: a stock photo of a red deer in the Highlands

It is believed the tools found at Tarradale on the Black Isle, the site of a late Mesolithic settlement, were used by hunter-gatherers (file photo)

A piece of elm charcoal gave a date between 4231 and 3996BC while a piece of charcoal from a wild apple or related tree gave a date of 3981 to 3805BC.

Cow bones dating from around the same time gave similar results.

The results indicated that the site overlapped the Mesolithic and Early Neolithic periods when domestic farming came into play.

Dr Grant says it was hoped to return to the site for further excavation work.

He added: 'These people were rather more sophisticated than people think. We no longer think of them as primitive people.

'They are very adapted to their environment at a time when the land was still covered in trees.

'There would have been very few other people but a lot of wild animals. It is very easy to underestimate these people but not many of us would be able to survive like they did.'

Dr Grant said it was hoped to do further excavation work at the site with discussions ongoing on where the tools will be exhibited in the future.

====== 1597 ========

IS THIS WHAT THE IPHONE 11 WILL LOOK LIKE? DESIGN CONCEPT INCLUDES STYLUS AND AI CAMERA

A designer has imagined what the iPhone 11 might look like with a model for a futuristic gadget that includes a stylus and an AI-powered camera.

Antonio de Rosa's concept envisages the iconic device rebranded as the 'Apple Phone' - in line with the Apple Watch and Apple TV.

The design is based on what he calls a 'wishlist' of upgrades which iPhone users would like to see.

The stylus would be a new addition to the iPhone range, similar to the S Pen which comes with Samsung's Note line, while the AI camera is a nod to the Google Pixel.

Scroll down for video

A designer has imagined what the iPhone 11 might look like with a model for a futuristic gadget including a stylus and an AI-powered camera. Antonio de Rosa's concept envisages a gadget rebranded as the 'Apple Phone' in line with the Apple Watch and Apple TV

WHAT ARE THE FEATURES OF THE 'APPLE PHONE'? Stylus - A pen similar to the Samsung S Pen which can be stored inside the Apple Phone and works remotely.

- A pen similar to the Samsung S Pen which can be stored inside the Apple Phone and works remotely. Smart phone case - The stylus could be used to write temporary notes on the back of the device.

- The stylus could be used to write temporary notes on the back of the device. Selfie notch - The front-facing camera which also enables facial recognition would be moved to be less intrusive.

- The front-facing camera which also enables facial recognition would be moved to be less intrusive. AI-powered camera - The Apple Phone's camera would have four different 12-megapixel lenses.

- The Apple Phone's camera would have four different 12-megapixel lenses. Colours - The designer has created concepts in Deep Black, Astral Gold and Icy Silver.

Like the latest S Pen in the Samsung Galaxy Note 9, the Apple Phone stylus would be Bluetooth-enabled and could be used as a remote.

It could be used to write temporary notes on the back of the phone cover which would fade away and disappear without a trace.

The stylus could be tucked away at the top of the phone in a manner similar to the Samsung equivalent.

Another improvement is targeted at the iPhone X's selfie 'notch', a front-facing camera cut out of the top of the screen.

Many iPhone users thought the notch was ugly and intrusive, taking up too much of the screen.

The new design would move the notch - which also includes the phone's facial recognition sensors, which he calls Face ID 2- to the top left of the screen.

The stylus would be a new addition to the iPhone range, similar to the S Pen which comes with Samsung's Note line. It would be Bluetooth-enabled so that it could be used remotely

In a further upgrade the camera would consist of four different 12-megapixel lenses as well as a 20-megapixel zoom camera.

The camera is described as being powered by artificial intelligence, which could include filter effects similar to the latest iPhone XS.

A video created by the designer features a gold-covered phone but he has also created black and silver concepts.

The screen would have an OLED - organic light-emitting diode - display and a 3000x1386 resolution.

The stylus - a new addition to the iPhone range - could be used to write temporary notes on the back of the phone cover which would fade away disappear without a trace

A video created by the designer features a gold-covered phone but he has also created black and silver concepts. The screen would have an OLED - organic light-emitting diode - display and a 3000x1386 resolution

In its latest product launch last month Apple unveiled the iPhone XS and XS Max with the largest screen of any gadget in the range so far.

The company also said the XS Max housed the biggest battery the company had ever placed into an iPhone.

The new power source would give users 90 minutes more battery life than last year’s iPhone X, the manufacturers said.

A fourth generation Apple Watch was also announced by the firm.

The Apple Watch Series 4 will feature a larger screen – more than 30 per cent larger than previous generations – as well as a thinner body.

Another improvement is targeted at the iPhone X's selfie 'notch', a front-facing camera cut out of the top of the screen. Many iPhone users thought the notch was ugly and intrusive, taking up too much of the screen so the new one would be moved to the top left

In a further upgrade the camera would consist of four different 12-megapixel lenses as well as a 20-megapixel zoom camera. The camera is described as being powered by artificial intelligence, which could include filter effects similar to the latest iPhone XS

====== 1598 ========

'ASTONISHING' DEFORMITIES FOUND IN ANCIENT HUMAN REMAINS MAY HAVE BEEN CAUSED BY INBREEDING

An astonishing number of deformities found in the ancient bones of early humans may have been caused by rampant inbreeding.

An analysis of remains from 66 ancient humans found 75 birth defects, including warped skulls, dwarfism and mutated teeth.

A fifth of the mutations didn't match any known modern developmental disorder, researchers said.

Many of the deformities were inherited, and scientists believe their sheer volume suggests that tribe members were mating with their close relatives.

Scroll down for video

An analysis of remains from 66 ancient humans found 75 birth defects, including bowed femurs (left) warped skulls (centre), dwarfism and mutated teeth (bottom right)

An archaeologist examined records for two ancient infants, six children, four juveniles, six adolescents, 30 prime age adults, and eight older adults.

The bones, found at sites across Eurasia and the Middle East, mostly date to the past 200,000 years.

In total, the researcher, from Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri found evidence of 75 skeletal or dental abnormalities.

They included soft bones caused by the blood disorder hypophosphatemia, bowed femurs, and a wide variety of jaw and dental problems.

Scientists said the sheer volume of these deformities was surprising, with two-thirds of the ancient abnormalities occurring in fewer than one in 100 modern humans.

One quarter of the deformities are rare or extremely rare in modern human populations, while 20 per cent defied proper diagnosis.

'Some of these developmental abnormalities are unusual but not exceptional in recent human samples, and thus it would not be surprising to find examples of them in the … human paleontological record,' said lead researcher Dr Erik Trinkaus

'However, other abnormalities are extremely rare in recent human populations, and the probability of finding such a case in the fossil record would be extraordinary.'

Dr Trinkaus believes that several factors may have contributed to the unusually high number of deformities - including the stress of the hunter gatherer lifestyle.

Researchers have found bone defects in many ancient human bones. Pictured are two misshapen arm bones identified in a skeleton found on a Scottish island in the Hebrides

'The abundance of developmental abnormalities among Pleistocene humans may have been enhanced by the generally high levels of stress evident among these foraging populations,' he wrote in a paper published in PNAS.

The anthropologist also suggested that inbreeding was responsible.

Some abnormalities were inherited conditions, and the chances of them appearing so often in small populations would have greatly increased if breeding occurred among closely related individuals.

This is supported by previous DNA analyses, which have shown that human populations of this era had a low genetic diversity.

'Of all the arguments put forward … [inbreeding] seems the most likely explanation,' Hallie Buckley, an archaeologist at the University of Otago in Dunedin, New Zealand, who was not involved in the study, told Science Mag.

====== 1599 ========

PANASONIC DEVELOPS £200 HORSE BLINKERS FOR HUMANS TO HELP PEOPLE DODGE DISTRACTING COLLEAGUES

Panasonic has created horse blinkers for humans to help workers avoid distracting colleagues in the office.

The £200 ($260) device narrows your field of vision using a horseshoe-shaped wall of dark material.

Dubbed the Wear Space, it also features noise-cancelling headphones to ensure nearby conversations don't hinder your concentration.

The headset 'instantly creates a boundary with the surroundings' and provides 'a psychological personal space', according to its designers.

Scroll down for video

Panasonic has created horse blinkers for humans to help workers avoid distractions in the office

The gadget was built at Panasonic's Future Life laboratory, in collaboration with fashion designer Kunihiko Morinaga.

They say that as well as blocking distractions, the headset also indicates to colleagues that you do not wish to be disturbed.

Wear Space's dark grey material wraps around the back of the head and can be adjusted so the wearer can only see their computer and keyboard.

The noise-canceling headphones reduce surrounding noise, while the fabric blocks out movement in the user's peripheral vision.

The device weighs just 300 grams (10.5oz) - about the same as a can of soup.

'There is no sense of pressure on the top of the head, so a comfortable wearing feeling has been realised,' according to Panasonic.

Wear Space, which will cost around £200 ($260), is expected to go on sale in Japan next year and may later be introduced globally.

Offices around the globe have increasingly moved toward open-plan, collaborative spaces over the walled-off cubicles of old.

Engineers said they developed Wear Space for times when open offices are more of a distraction than an aid to productivity.

The £200 ($260) device narrows your field of vision using a horseshoe-shaped wall of dark material

Everyone sometimes wants to be alone and concentrate,' said team member Kang Hwayoung.

Covering your head with the fabric partition can also stop people from trying to make small talk.

'When someone is wearing the Wear Space, you can clearly see that the wearer wants to focus. We think this is quite important,' Mr Kang added.

====== 1600 ========

LG REVEALS SELF-DRIVING SHOPPING CART THAT CAN FOLLOW CUSTOMERS AROUND AS THEY BROWSE STORES

LG's rolling robots could soon arrive at the largest supermarket chain in South Korea.

The tech giant has inked a deal with grocery retailer E-Mart to develop self-driving shopping carts that can follow consumers around the store, according to Yonhap News.

The device will be developed under LG's CLOi brand, which has released other robots for the home, hotels and other uses.

Scroll down for video

LG has inked a deal with grocery retailer E-Mart to develop self-driving shopping carts that can follow consumers around the store, help direct them to items and keep track of shopping lists.

HOW WILL THE AUTONOMOUS CARTS WORK? LG's cylindrical robot features a face-like screen where it can display users' shopping list. It also has a barcode scanner to show prices. Self-driving software enables it to direct users to a particular item they're in search of. Additionally, the device can drive itself, freeing users from having to push a cart around the store as they browse.

LG hopes the technology, which it refers to as a 'smart-cart robot,' will free shoppers from the usual hassle of having to push their grocery cart around as they peruse the aisles.

'The LG CLOi CartBot eliminates the worst part of grocery shopping: standing in lines,' LG explained.

'This shopping companion and trolley has a built-in bar code scanner that rings you up as you shop.

'When you’re ready to check out, the automated payment service takes care of the bill. No lines, no drama,' the firm added.

The firm first teased the device at the CES tech conference last year, when it took the wraps off its Shopping Cart Robot, Serving Robot and Porter Robot.

At CES, LG noted that the smart-cart robot features a barcode scanner.

This enables the robot to check prices and display users' shopping list on a built-in display.

What's more, the self-driving cart can help direct shoppers to a particular item they're in search of.

Users can also make requests through LG's own app.

'With the help of LG’s Shopping Cart Robot, customers can scan items using a barcode reader on the robot to view product prices and see their complete shopping list on the face display,' LG explained.

LG noted that the smart-cart robot features a barcode scanner. This enables the robot, which it refers to as a 'smart-cart robot,' to check prices and display users' shopping list on a screen

The robot also also has a barcode scanner to show prices of items as shoppers place them in its basket

'The robot can also guide shoppers to the products they select on a smartphone app.'

It's not yet clear when LG's automated carts will hit E-Mart stores or how they'll get around the store.

LG unveiled prototype designs at CES that feature a cylindrical robot with a face-like screen that displays prompts and other helpful information.

LG's robots could soon arrive at the largest supermarket chain in South Korea. The firm inked a deal with grocery retailer E-Mart to develop self-driving shopping carts that follow shoppers

LG unveiled prototype designs at CES that feature a cylindrical robot with a face-like screen that displays prompts and other helpful information. It has also debuted a robot exo-skeleton

Along with its rolling robots, LG has also developed an exo-skeleton robot that's meant to help enhance leg movements to help warehouse workers lift heavy objects.

Dubbed CLOi SuitBot, the AI-powered robotic suit boosts the leg movements of its wearer, letting them undertake tasks they normally wouldn’t be equipped to handle.

The CLOi SuitBot can communicate with other service robots built by LG to become part of a 'smart working network' to co-ordinate around the factory floor.

====== 1601 ========

HOW YOU INTERPRET THIS 100-YEAR-OLD OPTICAL ILLUSION COULD PREDICT HOW OLD YOU ARE

How we perceive the world around us may be heavily influenced by age.

Researchers suspect faces in particular may be subject to subconscious biases, with the brain relying on both neural processes and social factors to recognize others.

Using the 1915 optical illusion ‘My Wife and My Mother-In-Law,’ a new study has illustrated how age can dictate what we see in ambiguous figures.

While younger viewers tend to see a woman in her mid-20s, older observers were more likely to see a woman in her 60s or older.

Scroll down for video

Using the 1915 optical illusion ‘My Wife and My Mother-In-Law,’ a new study has illustrated how age can dictate what we see. According to the researchers, ‘younger and older participants estimated the age of the image as younger and older, respectively’

‘Although face recognition is governed by low-level neural detection mechanisms, it is also affected by seemingly incidental high-level social processes,’ the researchers explain in the new study, published to the journal Scientific Reports.

‘A good example is the effect of social in- and out-groups. A social in-group is a collection of people with whom a person identifies as a member whereas an out-group is outside one’s identity.’

To find out how these social factors, such as own-age in-groups, affect perception of faces, researchers used the online crowdsourcing platform Mechanical Turk to sample 666 participants over the age of 18.

Participants were each shown a brief glimpse of the optical illusion – a bistable image that from some angles appears to show a young woman with her face turned away, and from others shows the profile of an older woman wearing a headscarf.

The image was only displayed for 500 ms, and participants were subsequently asked a number of questions to verify that they got a good enough look.

Once they passed these tests, they were asked to estimate the age of the woman in the image.

While younger viewers tend to see a woman in her mid-20s, older observers were more likely to see a woman in her 60s or older. This is illustrated in the graph above

WHY DO WE SEE FACES IN INANIMATE OBJECTS? Pareidolia is the psychological response to seeing faces and other significant and everyday items in random stimuli. It is a form of apophenia, when people see patterns in random, unconnected data. There have been multiple occasions when people have claimed to see religious images and themes in unexpected places. On the red planet, one of the most famous is the 'face on Mars' spotted by one of the Viking orbiters in 1976. This was later proven to just be a chance alignment of shifting sand dunes. An image captured in 2015 by NASA’s Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter (MRO), which has been in orbit around the red planet since 10 March 2006, revealed a face-like feature at one of many monitoring sites at the South Pole residual cap (SPRC) on Mars

While there may be default biases in how the optical illusion itself is typically perceived, with the majority of viewers reporting a younger woman, the researchers found the observer’s age may contribute too.

The results showed that the viewers often saw a woman that essentially mirrored their own age; according to the researchers, ‘younger and older participants estimated the age of the image as younger and older, respectively.’

In the version on the left, the features shown in black highlight the young woman, who appears to be looking away from the viewer. On right, the features highlighted in white show the older woman, with a large nose and downward-pointing chin, and a scarf on her head

These findings suggest social groups do affect face processing, even if we don’t realize it, according to the researchers.

‘The effect of the observer’s age on the estimated age of the woman is consistent with an own-age social group bias,’ the researchers explain.

‘Within the respective age-groups, participants have a bias towards processing faces of a similar age.’





====== 1602 ========

WHY YOUR PHONE BATTERY LASTS FOR DAYS WHEN IT'S NEW, BUT LATER LOSES CHARGE AFTER A FEW HOURS

Scientists have finally unpicked the mystery behind why smartphone batteries have such diabolical battery life after a year or so of use.

According to the latest findings, the commonly-held belief of how a lithium-ion battery works is incorrect.

Instead of charged particles flowing in a single, uniform direction inside the battery, they move back and forth in a random pattern of movement.

According to the researchers, this knowledge could be used to create batteries that last longer and hold their charge without damaging the lifespan of the cell.

This could have applications for the mass roll-out of electric vehicles as well as improving the lifespan of billions of gadgets worldwide, scientists say.

Scroll down for video

Scientists have finally unpicked the mystery behind why smartphone batteries have such diabolical battery life after a year or so of use. They claim the understanding of how batteries actually work has been widely misunderstood (stock)

The breakthrough study came from researchers at Stanford University, MIT and the University of Bath who discovered that our understanding of how a lithium-ion battery – the type that powers all our favourite gadgets – works, is incorrect.

It is known that charged particles flow between a positive electrode to a negative electrode through a material (electrolyte) and this movement creates a charge.

However, it was previously believed the lithium was anisotropic, a property that means it flows in a single direction, with the particles in a single, uniform route through the battery.

However, it has now been found that the reality is vastly different and the particles, known as ions, actually ebb and flow back and forth through the electrolyte.

This can create random pockets of densely packed ions inside the cell, which create large amounts of heat, damaging the lifespan of the battery.

HOW DO LITHIUM ION BATTERIES WORK? Batteries store and releases energy by moving electrons from one 'end' of the battery to the other. We can use the energy from those moving electrons to do work for us, like power a drill. These two battery 'ends' are known as electrodes. One is called the anode and the other is called the cathode. Generally, the anode is made from carbon and the cathode from a chemical compound known as a metal oxide, like cobalt oxide. The final battery ingredient is known as the electrolyte, and it sits in between the two electrodes. In the case of lithium-ion batteries, the electrolyte is a salt solution that contains lithium ions—hence the name. When you place the battery in a device, the positively charged lithium ions are attracted to and move towards the cathode. Once it is bombarded with these ions, the cathode becomes more positively charged than the anode, and this attracts negatively charged electrons. As the electrons start moving toward the cathode, we force them to go through our device and use the energy of the electrons 'flowing' toward the cathode to generate power. You can think of this like a water wheel, except instead of water flowing, electrons are flowing. Lithium-ion batteries are especially useful because they are rechargeable. When the battery is connected to a charger, the lithium ions move in the opposite direction as before. As they move from the cathode to the anode, the battery is restored for another use. Lithium ion batteries can also produce a lot more electrical power per unit of weight than other batteries. This means that lithium-ion batteries can store the same amount of power as other batteries, but accomplish this in a lighter and smaller package.

As a result, the battery loses the ability to hold a charge and we often find ourselves relying on portable chargers more often.

William Chueh, an assistant professor at Stanford, said: 'We used very powerful X-rays from an accelerator, and we're using these X-rays to look into these individual nanoparticles.

'Our original expectation was that lithium moves in certain directions only. We actually saw lithium move in the direction it's not supposed to move.'

Random pockets of densely packed ions create large amounts of heat in a cell which can damage the battery. As a result, many of us become reliant on portable chargers (stock)

The research made use of the SLAC National Accelerator Lab's facilities at Stanford, which allowed the team of scientists to look at batteries on the nanoscale.

Dr Chueh elaborates on the phenomenon and explained that previous theories did not account for how the liquid interacts with the solid.

'Kind of like in space, we think about how the particle behaves in a vacuum,' he said.

'But a battery doesn't operate in a vacuum—it operates in a liquid.'

The team believe they will be able to fix this flaw by altering the transport pathway and allowing for more durable batteries in the future.

====== 1603 ========

INTERACTIVE WORLD MAP REVEALS HOW SCARCE WATER WILL BECOME

An interactive map developed by Aalto University has mapped the shocking water shortage the world currently faces.

The availability of clean water is a challenge the world currently faces as climate change and thirsty commercial processes make it scarce in certain regions.

Agriculture, apparel manufacturers and chemical production all require enormous amounts of water and climate change has also made extreme drought become more commonplace.

The average person in Europe now uses 3,000 to 5,000 litres of water per day, researchers claim.

Scroll down for video

An interactive map (pictured) from Aalto University now allows people to track the areas where people live in water scarcity, water stress and water shortage

In the last year, droughts and water shortages have affected Great Britain, South Africa and Australia as well as vast swathes of Africa and central Asia.

The situation in South Africa became so dire that a marine salvage expert was trying to secure funding to bring an enormous iceberg to Cape Town to provide clean drinking water to its parched residents.

Water resources are becoming an even more pressing for future years as populations continue to grow and climate change worsens.

The Water Scarcity Atlas is a web application created by Postdoctoral Researcher Joseph Guillaume and Assistant Professor Matti Kummu at Aalto University and uses interactive global maps to show the problems that arise with limited water and provides information on how to fight it.

The map allows people to track the areas where people live in water scarcity, water stress and water shortage.

Water stress can be thought of as demand-driven scarcity, while water shortage is population-driven. Stress can occur even with a small population if water use is sufficiently high and water availability sufficiently low.

'Choices that consumers make here in the North have an effect on the other side of the world. Understanding water scarcity and the impact of your actions is the first step to shaping the future,' explains Dr Guillaume.

'We wanted to create a capacity building tool so that people can better understand what makes their choices sustainable or not.'

The average person in Europe now uses 3,000−5,000 litres of water per day, researchers claim. Agriculture, textile manufacturing and the chemical industry require enormous amounts of water and climate change has seen extreme drought become more commonplace

The map allows people to track the areas where people live in water scarcity, water stress and water shortage. Water stress can be thought of as demand-driven scarcity, while water shortage is population-driven. Stress can occur even with a small population if water use is sufficiently high and water availability sufficiently low

The tool visualises how water scarcity has evolved over the past 100 years and presents potential scenarios for the rest of this century.

It also allows people to see how different factors, such as changes in diet and food losses, affect water resources all over the world.

'As water use increases, it becomes more difficult to access the resource sustainably. Eating less meat and avoiding food waste can reduce water use,' says Dr Guillaume.

'We need to support initiatives by governments, NGOs, and companies with water stewardship programmes.

'It's hard to strike a balance between environmental and human needs, especially when there isn't enough water to go around.

'We can work together to help farmers and other water users adopt new techniques, and establish effective management arrangements.'

====== 1604 ========

MYSTERY OF THE MASSIVE MILE WIDE 'MONOLITH' ICEBERG:

A strange gigantic 'monolith' iceberg has been spotted by NASA scientists flying over Antarctica.

The rectangular berg was spotted off the east coast of the Antarctic Peninsula, near the Larsen C ice shelf.

NASA experts believe it may have recently broken off the shelf, and say the sharp angles and flat surfaces are evidence the break occured very recently.

Scroll down for video

The rectangular berg was spotted near the Larsen C ice shelf, and NASA experts believe it the sharp edges are evidence it may have recently broken off the shelf

WHAT IS A TABULAR ICEBERG? Tabular icebergs split off the edges of ice shelves in the same way a fingernail that grows too long ends up cracking off. This is why they have sharp edges.

The strange, angular berg is known as a tabular iceberg.

'A tabular iceberg can be seen on the right, floating among sea ice just off of the Larsen C ice shelf,' the space agency said.

'The iceberg's sharp angles and flat surface indicate that it probably recently calved from the ice shelf.'

The image was taken during an IceBridge flight—an airborne survey of the planet's polar ice that gives a 3D view of the ice that makes up the Arctic and Antarctic, providing vital information on how it changes over time.

In an interview with LiveScience, NASA scientist Kelly Brunt said 'tabular icebergs are rather like fingernails that crack of, giving them sharp edges.

'What makes this one a bit unusual is that it looks almost like a square,' she said.

She estimated its size to be about a mile wide.

Scientists have been closely tracking Larsen C since a massive iceberg broke free, and began to spin.

The 'pizzaberg': This berg resembles a slice of pizza. The Triangular iceberg surrounded by many different types of sea ice, off the Larsen ice shelf in the Weddell Sea. In the open water, grease ice is forming.

From yesterday's #IceBridge flight: Mountains in the Shackleton Range, bordering Recovery Glacier, East Antarctica.

From Friday’s #IceBridge flight: A lead (fracture within the sea ice) that is partially refrozen and also continuing to freeze over. New, very thin grease ice is forming.

Experts had previously said the giant area, estimated to be about the size of Delaware, was locked into place, saying it 'likely got stuck on the sea bed'

'But now A68 has started to swing northwards,' said Polar oceanographer Mark Brandon recently, who spotted the movement using temperature data collected by the Suomi NPP satellite.

'You can see at between 7-12 July 2018 the weather conditions and ocean currents conspire to swing the trillion tonnes of the giant iceberg A68 in an anticlockwise direction,' he said.

'My guess is that A68a will continue rotating as it is now around that western point, until what is currently the northern edge collides with the Larsen C ice front.

'It has a spectacular amount of momentum and it's not going to stopped easily. I should think we will see some interesting collisions with the ice shelf in the next few months.'

It is believed a 'temperature anomaly' on 20 July 2018, when it was almost 20 °C warmer than the mean over the Weddell Sea and Larsen Ice shelf, may have triggered the rotation beginning.

Glaciologist and former Project MIDAS collaborator Martin O'Leary told Earther a collision is 'certainly possible' he doubts it would have much of an effect on either the iceberg or shelf given the slow-motion speed at which it would occur.

Eventually, O'Leary says the prevailing ocean currents will push the iceberg northwards and eastwards into the Southern Ocean 'where it will probably break up and melt.'

Left, a 'temperature anomaly' on 20 July 2018, when it was almost 20 °C warmer than the mean over the Weddell Sea and Larsen Ice shelf Right: Sentinel-1 SAR satellite imagery from 29 August 2018 shows that to the north of the iceberg the wind is pushing the sea ice northwards faster than the iceberg is rotating. Iceberg A68 captured from with the Sentinel-1 SAR sensor 29 August 2018 23:58 UTC, showing an area of open water where there is intense sea ice generation happening right now.

last year it was revealed dense ice cover had so far prevented it from drifting far out to sea.

An animation showing its movement over the last few months reveals how the trillion-plus ton Iceberg A-68 has shifted as it's battered by ocean currents, tides, and winds in the Weddell Sea.

While the huge chunk of ice, estimated to be about the size of Delaware, has moved around some, the experts say its surroundings have kept it somewhat locked into place.

An animation showing its movement over the last few months reveals how the trillion-plus ton Iceberg A-68 has shifted as it's battered by ocean currents, tides, and winds in the Weddell Sea

Iceberg A-68 is the sixth largest iceberg on record since scientists began keeping track, and its separation from the ice shelf sparked fears about its future impacts on global sea levels.

Despite all the activity in the Weddell Sea, 'its northern end has repeatedly been grounded in shallower water near Bawden Ice Rise,' according to Project Midas researchers, who have been monitoring the iceberg over the last year.

'These groundings led eventually to further pieces of the iceberg being shattered off in May 2018.

'Whilst not quite large enough to be given labels themselves, the total area of icebergs lost from A-68 in May was the size of a small city.'

Scientists tracking a massive iceberg that broke free from Antarctica's Larsen C Ice Shelf last year say dense sea-ice cover has so far prevented it from drifting far out to sea. It is shown above in July, 2018

While the huge chunk of ice, estimated to be about the size of Delaware, has moved around some, the experts say its surroundings have kept it somewhat locked into place. Its position back in November, 2017 is shown

Earlier this year, scientists released the first-ever footage of 'A-68', a trillion-ton iceberg the size of Delaware that has broken off from Antarctica.

Stunning aerial clips capture the huge crack in Antarctica's Larsen C ice shelf that led to the third largest iceberg ever recorded breaking off from the continent last July.

When A-68 separated from Larsen C, it revealed an ocean hidden under the ice shelf for 120,000 years, and a team of scientists are now studying the region to uncover some of the hidden ecosystem's mysteries.

Led by the Cambridge-based British Antarctic Survey (BAS), the group will study tiny animals, microbes and plankton on the seafloor to see how they cope with severe changes to their environment.

As part of preliminary research for the trip, the team have taken aerial footage of the iceberg to monitor how far it has drifted to sea - the very first video captured of the berg since it calved from Larsen C last year.

Marine biologist Dr Katrin Linse, the BAS researcher leading the mission, said: 'The calving of A-68 provides us with a unique opportunity study marine life as it responds to a dramatic environmental change.

'It's important we get there quickly before the undersea environment changes as sunlight enters the water and new species begin to colonise.

'We've put together a team with a wide range of scientific skills so that we can collect as much information as possible in a short time. It's very exciting.'

The scientists are travelling by ship to collect samples from the newly exposed seabed, which covers an area of around 2,250 square miles (5,800 square kilometres).

The team says their mission is urgent because the ecosystem that's likely hidden beneath the ice for thousands of years may change as sunlight starts to alter the surface layers of the sea.

The team will investigate the area previously under the ice shelf by collecting seafloor animals, microbes, plankton, sediments and water samples using a range of equipment including video cameras and a special sledge pulled along the seafloor to collect tiny animals.

They will also record any marine mammals and birds that might have moved into the area. Their findings will provide a picture of what life under the ice shelf was like so changes to the ecosystem can be tracked.

A-68 is 620 feet (190 meters) thick from top to bottom, with just 100 feet (30 meters) of it is visible above the ocean.

The iceberg was formed by a single crack along Larsen C, its parent ice shelf, and makes up a little over 10 per cent of the shelf.

BAS researchers flew around the iceberg to get a better view of it as it drifts into the Weddell sea.

This newly exposed marine area is the first to benefit from an international agreement made in 2016 by the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR).

The edge of A-68, the iceberg the calved from the Larsen C ice shelf. Nasa took this image in November during a flight that was part of its IceBridge program, which will help researchers understand the bedrock under the ice

This agreement designates Special Areas for Scientific Study in newly exposed marine areas following the collapse or retreat of ice shelves across the Antarctic Peninsula region.

The agreement came following a European Union proposal to CCAMLR, led by BAS scientists.

Professor David Vaughan, Science Director at BAS, said: 'The calving of A-68 offers a new and unprecedented opportunity to establish an interdisciplinary scientific research programme in this climate sensitive region.

'Now is the time to address fundamental questions about the sustainability of polar continental shelves under climate change.

'We need to be bold on this one. Larsen C is a long way south and there's lots of sea ice in the area, but this is important science, so we will try our best to get the team where they need to be.'

====== 1605 ========

'THE BLOB' IS BACK AND CAUSING ABNORMALLY WARM WEATHER AND OCEAN TEMPERATURES IN ALASKA

Alaska's unseasonably warm weather is a result of the 'blob' - a period of high pressure over the state's coast.

This dome of warm air has stunted the progression of autumn and seen the state cling to the remnants of summer.

Unusual weather patterns have extended beyond the air temperature and has spread to the ocean, with an area of warm water found in the usually frigid north Pacific waters.

Scroll down for video

Alaska's unseasonably warm weather is a result of the 'blob' - a period of high pressure over the state's coast. Previous iterations of the blob have appeared and had significant impacts on the Lower 48

Scientists are unsure how long the blob will remain in place and the consequences it may have on the weather for the contiguous 48 states.

Previous iterations of the blob have appeared and had significant impacts on the Lower 48.

Previous experience says the blob causes unseasonably warm and dry conditions in the West and cold and stormy conditions in the East.

This is a result of the high pressure area in the Gulf of Alaska causing the jet stream to rise above the blob.

A wall of high pressure gathers around the northwestern states and brings warm weather while blocking storms.

It is believed the Californian drought of 2013-2015 was partly caused by one of the blob's predecessors.

Previous experience says the blob causes unseasonably warm and dry conditions in the West and cold and stormy conditions in the East. This is a result of the high pressure area in the Gulf of Alaska causing the jet stream to rise above the blob

Seattle's 2015 was also the hottest on record and also blamed on the blob.

The National Weather Service on Thursday predicted a warmer than normal winter for the northern and western three-quarters of the nation.

The greatest chance for warmer than normal winter weather is in Alaska, the Pacific Northwest, Montana, northern Wyoming and western North Dakota.

'How long will BLOB Jr. last? At least as long as we have persistent high pressure over the north Pacific,' wrote Cliff Mass, a professor of atmospheric science at the University of Washington, in a blog post.

Professor Mass added: 'It looks like things are evolving to a pattern with less high pressure offshore, so the BLOB should weaken.

====== 1606 ========

TRIUMPH FOR TEENAGE TETRIS SENSATION JOSEPH SAELEE AT WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP

A 16-year-old Tetris sensation from California burst into tears of joy after he defeated a seven-time champion to win the block-stacking game's world title.

Joseph Saelee plays Tetris on a Nintendo console which dates back to 1985 - more than a decade before he was born.

A large crowd erupted in applause after the teenager defeated reigning champion Jonas Neubauer in the championship finals in Portland, Oregon.

Saelee - who is said to have 'played this game like nobody else in history' - revealed he practises two hours a day the old-fashioned gaming console, BBC News reported.

Joseph Saelee (left) plays the block-stacking game on a Nintendo console which dates back to 1985 - more than a decade before he was born. He defeated reigning champion Jonas Neubauer (right) in the championship finals in Portland, Oregon

He said: 'My friends are like, what is this guy playing. Tetris is easy to learn but it can take years to master.'

'I feel like I could still improve - it isn't just a one-time thing.'

A gracious Neubauer said it was an 'honour to pass the torch' to the teenage Tetris sensation, according to Kotaku.

'He just really had the ability, had the natural ability, and let it shine as bright as he could in his first tournament,' Neubauer said, praising the teenager's 'pure heart'.

Neubauer had won seven of the previous eight tournaments.

One pundit had described the final match-up as 'the 16 year old who has played this game like nobody else in history against the champion who is the greatest in history'.

The two finalists embraced and a large crowd erupted in applause after Saelee's triumph in the Tetris world championships. Neubauer had won seven of the previous eight tournaments

Saelee won the best-of-five final in three games, deploying a difficult 'hyper-tapping' style which proved too much for the reigning champion.

The audience at the Retro Gaming Expo in Portland rose to their feet to applaud the new champion at the end of the final.

Tetris, which was invented in 1984, is almost two decades older than the current world champion.

The Nintendo Entertainment System - known as the NES - on which Saelee practises his Tetris was first released to the public in 1985.

The tournament, which began in 2010, was modelled on the Nintendo World Championships which was first held in the United States in 1990.

====== 1607 ========

'ONCE-IN-A-GENERATION' ARCHAEOLOGY DIG BEGINS ALONG THE ROUTE OF HS2

The body of a bare-knuckle fighter who escaped slavery in America and went on to spar with Lord Byron could be unearthed as archaeologists dig up 10,000 years of British history along the line of HS2.

Researchers will dig up a graveyard next to London Euston station where Bill 'The Terror' Richmond, a fighter who also earned the favour of King George IV, was buried.

Neolithic tools, medieval pottery and Victorian time capsules have already been discovered in the early stages of the dig which organisers say is a 'once-in-a-generation' opportunity to explore British history.

A hunter-gatherer site on the outskirts of London, a Roman British town near Aylesbury and a World War II bombing decoy in Lichfield are among the historic sites which fall along the route of the new high speed line.

Archaeologists excavating a burial at Park Street, Birmingham, during what has been described as a 'once-in-a-generation' opportunity to uncover British history by digging along the route of the high speed line

WHO WAS BILL 'THE TERROR' RICHMOND? Bill Richmond was born in slavery in 1763 in Staten Island, New York, then under British colonial rule. The area was seized by forces loyal to King George III during the American Revolutionary War. Lord Percy - who had commanded the British troops - witnessed Richmond in tavern brawls against British soldiers. Archaeologists will also dig up a graveyard next to London Euston station where Bill 'The Terror Richmond' (pictured), a bare-knuckle fighter who taught Lord Byron, was buried Percy brought Richmond back to Britain in 1777 where he started to fight more regularly. He fought British champion Tom Cribb in 1805, losing after 76 rounds. While in London he earned the favour of Lord Byron who asked Richmond to train him. He was also acquainted with King George IV and attended his coronation in 1821. He died in December 1829.

A burial ground next to Euston station - which will be the London hub of the new high-speed railway - is being dug up as part of the renovation of the terminus.

Some 60,000 people were buried at the St James's Gardens site between 1788 and 1853.

They included Captain Matthew Flinders who led the first circumnavigation of the continent of Australia and is credited with naming it.

Bill 'The Terror' Richmond - an American bare-knuckle fighter who was born a slave but came to London where he taught Lord Byron to spar - was also buried at the Camden graveyard.

Richmond was born a slave in New York but escaped during the Revolutionary War when loyalist forces seized Staten Island in 1776.

King George IV was also among his admirers in Britain and Richmond attended his coronation in 1821.

In total, more than a thousand archaeologists are set to explore more than 60 separate sites over the next two years, from prehistoric and Roman settlements to those from the Industrial Revolution and the 20th century.

The work has already revealed prehistoric flint tools which were made thousands of years ago in what is now the London borough of Hillingdon.

The tools found in the Colne Valley are believed to date from early settlers who lived in the Mesolithic to the Iron Age between around 8,000 BC and AD 43.

In more recent history two Victorian time capsules buried nearly 140 years ago were discovered last year.

They were buried to mark the opening of the UK's first 'sober' hospital, the now-derelict National Temperance Hospital in London.

During the dig along the route researchers will excavate a Romano-British town in Fleet Marston, Aylesbury, and uncover the remains of a medieval manor in Warwickshire.

A thousand-year-old demolished Anglo-Saxon church and burial ground will offer historians the chance to re-tell the story of a Buckinghamshire village.

Archaeologists also hope to out more about the Black Death - which devastated Europe's population in the 1340s - and its impact on medieval villages.

The time capsules were buried to mark the opening of the UK's first 'sober' hospital, the now-derelict National Temperance Hospital in London. Workers on the site are pictured lifting the hospital's foundation stone during excavation work last year

Earth being sifted for artefacts in Buckinghamshire ahead of the construction of HS2, during what has been described as a 'once-in-a-generation' opportunity for archaeologists

In 2017, two Victorian time capsules buried nearly 140 years ago, to mark the opening of the UK's first 'sober' hospital, were uncovered during the demolition of the derelict National Temperance Hospital in London

A hunter-gatherer site on the outskirts of London , a Roman British town near Aylesbury and a World War II bombing decoy in Lichfield are among the historic sites which fall along the route

Prehistoric flints discovered during archaeological excavation. The tools found in the Colne Valley are believed to date from early settlers who lived in the Mesolithic to the Iron Age between around 8,000 BC and AD 43

Ancient skeletons, Neolithic tools, medieval pottery and Victorian time capsules have already been discovered during early digs

A four-part documentary on the history of Britain that is exposed by the project will air on the BBC next year or in 2020.

Duncan Wilson, chief executive of government heritage body Historic England, said it was a 'once-in-a-generation opportunity'.

The dig could increase our understanding of 'how people have shaped England's landscapes over thousands of years, from the first prehistoric farmers through Roman and Saxon and Viking incomers to the more recent past,' he said.

Mark Thurston, HS2 chief executive, said: 'Before we bore the tunnels, lay the tracks and build the stations, an unprecedented amount of archaeological research is now taking place between London and Birmingham.

'This is the largest archaeological exploration ever in Britain, employing a record number of skilled archaeologists and heritage specialists from across the UK and beyond.'

The dig is getting underway ahead of the construction of the high-speed railway, which will first link London and Birmingham and then be extended further north.

A researcher examines a skeleton discovered during the archaeological dig. The dig is getting underway along the London to Birmingham route of the high speed railway which it is hoped will open to passengers in 2026

Prehistoric flints discovered in what is now the London borough of Hillingdon are among the archaeological finds on the HS2 dig. The tools found in the Colne Valley are believed to date from early settlers who lived in the Mesolithic to the Iron Age

A workman investigates one of the archaeological sites with a tablet. The entire HS2 project has a projected cost of £56 billion ($77 billion), revised up from the initial cost of £32.7 billion ($45 billion) in 2010

Medieval pottery which has been discovered in Buckinghamshire ahead of the construction of HS2. In total, more than a thousand archaeologists are set to explore more than 60 separate sites over the next two years

WHAT IS HS2 AND HOW MUCH WILL IT COST? HS2 (High Speed 2) is a plan to construct a a new high-speed rail linking London, West Midlands, Leeds and Manchester. The line is to be built in a 'Y' configuration. London will be on the bottom of the 'Y', Birmingham at the centre, Leeds at the top right and Manchester at the top left. Work on Phase One began in 2017 and the government plans envisage the line being operational by 2026. The HS2 project is being developed by High Speed Two (HS2) Ltd. The project has a projected cost of £56 billion ($77 billion), up from the initial cost of £32.7 billion ($45 billion) in 2010. Last year's annual report showed that the company established by the government to build the railway spent £500 million in the year to March 31 - up almost 30 per cent from £352.9 million the year before. It takes the total amount spent by HS2 so far to more than £1.9billion since 2009. Separate accounts published by the Department for Transport also showed it had spent another £366 million on HS2. The bulk of this was on compensating individuals and businesses who own property and land near the planned line.

Euston station is being revamped with 10 new platforms to house the high-speed trains.

A new station will also be built at Old Oak Common in north-west London, which will link the line to Heathrow Airport via Crossrail.

In Birmingham there will be two new stations - Birmingham Interchange, close to the city's airport and the M42, and Birmingham Curzon Street in the city centre.

The project has a projected cost of £56 billion ($77 billion), revised up from the initial cost of £32.7 billion ($45 billion) in 2010.

The new high-speed lines will also link to existing routes where 'classic-compatible' trains will continue further north, cutting journey times from London to Newcastle and Scotland.

There were initial plans to link the line to the Continent with a branch to High Speed 1 - which connects London to the Channel Tunnel - but that proposal was later dropped.

The first trains are scheduled to run between London and Birmingham in 2026.

The new high-speed rail route is expected to link London to Birmingham by 2026 before the route is extended further north to Manchester and Leeds. There were initial plans to link the line to the Continent but that proposal was later dropped

An artist's impression of the new Euston station which will have 10 high-speed platforms. A burial ground next to Euston - which will be the London hub of the new high-speed railway - is being dug up as part of the renovation of the terminus

====== 1608 ========

$500M MUSEUM OF THE BIBLE FINDS FIVE EXHIBITS OF FRAGMENTS FROM THE DEAD SEA SCROLLS ARE FAKE

Five of the most valuable exhibits at the Museum of the Bible in Washington DC have been found to be fake.

The artefacts, thought to be part of the historic Dead Sea Scrolls, will no longer be displayed, the museum said.

Academics tested the fragments and found that they 'show characteristics inconsistent with ancient origin and therefore will no longer be displayed at the museum,' the institution said.

Scroll down for video

Visitors look at an exhibit about the Dead Sea scrolls at the Museum of the Bible: Academics tested the fragments and found that they 'show characteristics inconsistent with ancient origin and therefore will no longer be displayed at the museum,' the institution said

WHO IS STEVE GREEN? Billionaire evangelical Christian backer Steve Green is well known for his strident views on contraception. Its billionaire evangelical Christian backer Steve Green is well known for his strident views on contraception His arts and crafts retail chain Hobby Lobby burst into the public sphere when it won a 2014 Supreme Court case allowing companies to opt out of paying for the employees' contraception on religious grounds. He won't say how much his family spent for the 16 Dead Sea Scrolls fragments in its collection.

'Though we had hoped the testing would render different results, this is an opportunity to educate the public on the importance of verifying the authenticity of rare biblical artifacts, the elaborate testing process undertaken and our commitment to transparency,' said Jeffrey Kloha, Ph.D., chief curatorial officer for Museum of the Bible.

'As an educational institution entrusted with cultural heritage, the museum upholds and adheres to all museum and ethical guidelines on collection care, research and display.'

The Museum of the Bible has displayed five fragments since its grand opening in November 2017.

The museum has now removed these fragments from display, replacing them with three other fragments that will be on exhibit pending further scientific analysis and scholarly research.

'The museum continues to support and encourage research on these objects and others in its collection both to inform the public about leading-edge research methods and ensure our exhibits are presenting the most accurate and updated information,' said Kloha.

In April 2017, Bible Museum sent five fragments to the Bundesanstalt für Materialforschung und-prüfung (BAM) a German institute for analyzing materials, where scholars tested for 3D digital microscopy and conducted material analyses of the ink and sediment on the papyrus.

Their report, which the Bible Museum said they recently received, 'further raises suspicions about the authenticity of all five fragments.'

The Museum of the Bible has displayed five fragments since its grand opening in November 2017. Pictured, another of the fakes

Kipp Davis of Trinity Western University has been part of the study.

'My research has focused primarily on two aspects of Museum of the Bible's fragments: scribal quality and technique in the penning of the texts as well as the physical composition and current state of the manuscript media,' said Davis.

The privately funded $500-million museum tells the story of the holy book by blending archaeology with history, with exhibits including a portion of the Dead Sea Scrolls and even Babe Ruth's missal.

'My studies to date have managed to confirm upon a preponderance of different streams of evidence the high probability that at least seven fragments in the museum's Dead Sea Scrolls collection are modern forgeries, but conclusions on the status of the remaining fragments are still forthcoming.'

Scholars and scientists have identified more than 70 Dead Sea Scroll fragments that have surfaced on the antiquities market since 2002 - with estimates that up to 90 per cent of them could be fake.

The privately funded $500-million museum in Washington DC tells the story of the holy book by blending archaeology with history and a hint of whimsy

Different versions of Bible are on display at Museum of the Bible. The 430,000-square-foot museum, with a purpose to invite people to engage with the Bible, was opened to the public on November 17, 2017.

The privately funded $500-million museum tells the story of the holy book by blending archaeology with history, with exhibits including a portion of the Dead Sea Scrolls and even Babe Ruth's missal.

But since its genesis the 430,000 square-foot museum, which is mere blocks from the US Capitol building, has raised eyebrows.

Its billionaire evangelical Christian backer Steve Green is well known for his strident views on contraception.

His arts and crafts retail chain Hobby Lobby burst into the public sphere when it won a 2014 Supreme Court case allowing companies to opt out of paying for the employees' contraception on religious grounds.

He won't say how much his family spent for the 16 fragments in its collection.

Just months ago the company came under fire for illegally importing more than 5,500 artifacts, including ancient clay cuneiform tablets that had been smuggled out of Iraq.

Attributing the purchase to naivete, Hobby Lobby agreed to forfeit the pieces and pay a $3-million settlement.

The Green family's Christian convictions and the smuggling debacle had skeptics questioning both the museum's ideological aim and the provenance of its antiquities, more than 500 of which are on view on the institution's 'history' floor.

But Green, who chairs the museum's board, insists it aims only to 'present the facts.'

'This is a journalistic view of the Bible. It's not about espousing our faith,' he told reporters at a preview ahead of the museum's grand opening.

'We're inviting all people to engage with this book, so we embrace all that will come and celebrate the Bible.'

Situated just south of Washington's National Mall esplanade that houses the Smithsonian museum complex, the sprawling eight-floor institution - which includes a ballroom, performing arts hall and biblical garden - lets visitors tour a theatrical exhibit recreating what Nazareth may have looked like in the time of Jesus.

Another area explains the evolution of the Old Testament, displaying artifacts and manuscripts from the Green family as well as the Israel Antiquities Authority.

The museum also shows items on loan from institutions including the British Museum and Paris Louvre.

The first exhibit, a 3,200-pound replica of the Liberty Bell, had to be lowered into the building during construction because it was so large.

Another attraction is a soundscape of the 10 plagues, with glowing red light to symbolize the Nile turned to blood.

====== 1609 ========

ELON MUSK POSTS VIDEO OF BORING COMPANY'S 'DISTURBINGLY LONG' TUNNEL IN LA

Elon Musk has given a detailed glimpse into the Boring Company's first tunnel in Los Angeles.

A 30-second timelapse video shot by the billionaire tech mogul shows his point of view from a walk down the entire length of the rapid-transit tunnel underneath LA.

Musk also reiterated his goal, which was first announced last month, of opening the two-mile-long tunnel next month.

Scroll down for video

Musk didn't say how many miles of the tunnel have been built so far, beyond describing it as 'disturbingly long.'

'Walked full length of Boring Co tunnel under LA tonight. Disturbingly long,' Musk tweeted late Saturday night.

'On track for opening party Dec. 10. Will be very one-dimensional.'

The Boring Company hopes to make the tunnel available for public rides the day after the opening event.

It sits under LA suburb Hawthorne and would be able to deliver passengers in private vehicles on 'skates' at dizzying speeds of 150mph.

Each vehicle can carry up to 16 passengers at once through the 'Loop' system.

The tunnel sits under LA suburb Hawthorne and would be able to deliver passengers in private vehicles on 'skates' at dizzying speeds of 150mph. Pictured is a still from Musk's video

This 'loop' technology differs form the proposed hyperloop technology which would transport people at much greater speeds by sucking the air out of a tunnel to reduce air resistance.

The Hawthorne tunnel runs for 'for up to' two miles along 120th Street and then west under 120th street, the firm claims.

The firm began construction on the tunnel last year. Musk said last month the 'first tunnel is almost done' and would soon be open to the public.

Boring hopes to offer passengers rides on the high-speed tunnels for just $1 in an effort to reduce traffic in congested LA.

For now, the Loop system is limited to one tunnel, but Musk already has bigger plans in mind.

Boring Company founder Elon Musk said he walked the length of the LA tunnel. Musk didn't say how many miles of the tunnel have been built so far, beyond describing it as 'disturbingly long'

The firm uses massive boring machines to dig tunnels that can support high-speed transit systems under Los Angeles, as well as other cities like Baltimore and Chicago in the future

'We do expect to, over time, create a network of tunnels under greater LA,' Musk said in an interview with Recode.

'And I think this is really the key to getting around the city very fast. You've got to go 3D.'

Musk has already revealed plans to build a tunnel called 'Dugout Loop' that would ferry baseball fans to and from Dodger Stadium.

It would stretch over 3.6 miles and would be designed to accommodate about 100 pods.

====== 1610 ========

ANCIENT SCULPTURES WERE COLOURED AND NOT WHITEWASHED PIECES OF ART

The classic whitewashed marble statues that populate art galleries and museums across the world were once vibrantly coloured.

Ignorance of this fact is being labelled as 'the most common misconception about Western aesthetics in the history of Western art' by experts.

Ancient Roman and Greek pieces of art are instinctively assumed to be white by the general public based on their current appearance after centuries in ruin.

Academics delved into the possibility that the statues were colourful - known as polychromatism - and found microscopic evidence of a variety of colours.

A variety of ultra-high resolution imagery was used to detect the presence of past pigmentation.

Alt-right groups have used white sculptures in ancient civilisations as 'proof' of white supremacy, which researchers argue has created a 'blindness' to the possibility that these sculptures were originally colourful.

This is reinforced by the historical popularity in the art world of neoclassic pieces, rising to prominence in the 18th and 19th Century, which also assumed ancient to works to be devoid of colour.

Scroll down for video

The exhibition known as 'Gods in Colour' (pictured) was set-up in 2003 and has since visited 28 cities. It portrayed statues and art with the colouration it would have had when it was first created and before the annals of time erased it from view

Mark Abbe, now a professor of ancient art at the University of Georgia has been investigating the whitewashing of ancient statues.

He told Margaret Talbot of The New Yorker: '[It] is the most common misconception about Western aesthetics in the history of Western art.'

He went on to call it 'a lie we all hold dear'.

Dr Abbe has been studying pigmentation on ancient pieces of art for decades and re-investigated the findings from the ruins at Aphrodisias which was decimated by an earthquake in the seventh century AD.

Remains were studied for the first time in 1961 when archaeologists systematically excavated the city and put thousands of sculptural fragments in storage.

When Dr Abbe went to study the remains several decades later, he found many pieces were splattered with flecks of colour.

The classic whitewashed marble statues (left) that populate art galleries and museums across the world were once vibrantly coloured (right)

In August 2014 colour was projected onto a set of friezes at the Ara Pacis museum, in Rome (pictured). The removal of colour from ancient artwork has become romanticised and accepted over time

These included red pigment on the lips of a statue, black pigment on coils of hair and mirror like gilding on some limbs.

Vinzenz Brinkmann, a master's student in classics and archaeology from Ludwig Maximilian University, in Munich in the 80s reached a similar conclusion.

Dr Brinkmann invented a unique way of looking at the surface of these works of art and found a trove of polychromy.

With his discovery of the unmissable colouration came the simultaneous realisation that this portion of ancient history had all but been erased by time.

He told the New Yorker: 'It started as an obsession for me that has never ended.'

Pictured is a reconstruction of a lion statue that was part of a 2010 museum exhibit in Berlin, Germany. Researchers argue that back in the time of their creation, Roman and Greek monuments were vibrant and multi-coloured

The exhibition featured more than 20 full-size colour reconstructions of Greek and Roman works, alongside 35 original statues and pieces of art

Outrage at the exclusion of this slice of history is not limited to the two individuals who stumbled across the pigmentation over the course of their research.

Jan Stubbe Østergaard, a former curator at the Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek museum in Copenhagen has founded the international research network on polychromy.

'Saying you've seen these sculptures when you've seen only the white marble is comparable to somebody coming from the beach and saying they've seen a whale because there was a skeleton on the beach,' he said.

In response to the lack of education around the topic and the widespread omission of fact from textbooks around the world, Dr Brinkmann and his wife Ulrike Koch-Brinkmann started the exhibition known as 'Gods in Colour'.

This exhibition was set-up in 2003 and has since visited 28 cities.

Ancient Roman and Greek pieces of art are instinctively assumed to be white by the general public based on their current appearance after centuries in ruin

It portrayed statues and art with the colouration it would have possessed when it was first completed and before the annals of time erased it from sight.

Approximations of the original work were done by identifying and applying the pigment that remained on the object and also by studying 'shadows' - a tiny change in the surface that can tell experts what type of paint it once housed.

These included a Trojan archer from 500 BC with garishly patterned tights, a lion with ochre fur and the darkly coloured pubic hairs and bronzed skin and nipples of statues depicting a human likeness.

This portrait of the Roman Emperor Gaius Julius Caesar Augustus Germanius, known as Caligula, hails from 37-41 A.D. The image on the right shows what it would have looked like originally

Previous essays and work from academics in the field has tried to reveal the colourful past of both the artwork and the people of ancient civilisations.

One researcher, Sarah Bond, a University of Iowa classics professor, received hate-mail from the 'alt-right' white nationalists who condemned her claims.

Professor Bond stressed that these much-touted ancient civilisations often separated people based on their race, but not on their skin colour and that this was subsequently reflected in the art of the era.

Identity Evropa, an American neo-Nazi and white supremacist organisation, claimed the classical white marble statues were a historical emblem of white nationalism.

The initial acceptance and romanticisation of white marble statues as the ancient norm stemmed from the belief artists deliberately avoided the use of colour in a bid to distinguish their work from the non-Western art and also reaffirm their sense of a superior rationality.

This misheard notion from modern scholars manufactured an elaborate solution to a simplistic issue; the pigment simply eroded away after many years exposed to the elements.

Improvemnts must be made ot the process which is applied when archaeological sites produce a rare sulpture.

Instead of mercilessly cleaning the specimen to determine what they have found, archaeologists should take greater care to not remove the fragile remains of a long-ago paint.

====== 1611 ========

GIANT 1917 CHALK MAP OF AUSTRALIA CARVED INTO A WILTSHIRE HILLSIDE BY HOMESICK SOLDIERS IS RESTORED

A 1917 chalk map of Australia carved into a Wiltshire hillside has been painstakingly restored in time for the centenary commemorations of the end of World War One.

The vast badge was created by homesick soldiers from the Australian Imperial Force who were preparing to fight - many of whom never made it back home.

Over the years the 150ft (46m) wide map became overgrown and was disappearing.

Now, nearly 100 years after it was made, the badge has been restored to its former glory by a team of volunteers who spent the summer re-digging trenches using 40 tonnes of chalk.

Scroll down for video

A 1917 chalk map of Australia carved into a Wiltshire hillside has been painstakingly restored in time for the centenary commemorations of the end of World War One

The Australian soldiers were stationed near Hurdcott Camp which was one of three large camps between the villages of Compton Chamberlayne and Sutton Mandeville.

Australian battalions had been at Hurdcott Camp since 1916 but it was not until 1917 that it was officially taken over by the Australian Imperial Forces.

'In early 1917, soldiers (following the example of other chalk carvings at nearby Fovant and Sutton Mandeville) dug out an outline of Australia', according to the The Map of Australia trust website.

The lettering is 18ft (5m) tall and is believed to have taken 17 weeks to complete when it was first created.

The restoration started on 24 June this summer.

'The Map of Australia was completed on 3rd October 2018 and is now back on the hillside in time for Armistice Day', the trust website reads.

References in diaries and letters at the time suggest that creating the badge was more punishment than pleasure.

However, trustees of the chalk badge say that 'once created, it was often looked at longingly by men, perhaps when thinking of home.'

The vast badge was created by homesick soldiers from the Australian Imperial Force who were preparing to fight - many of whom never made it back home

Nearly 100 years after it was made, the badge has been restored to its former glory by a team of volunteers who spent the summer re-digging trenches using 40 tonnes of chalk

In early 1917, soldiers (following the example of other chalk carvings at nearby Fovant and Sutton Mandeville) dug out an outline of Australia

'I thought it was an absolute tragedy that it was fading from view,' Helen Roberts, a fire control officer who recruited a band of volunteers to carry out the restoration told The Times.

'We were blessed with a fantastic summer and only had to cancel on one day because of the weather, and that was because it was too hot.

'We never would have completed it in time for the Armistice if it hadn't been so sunny', she said.

In 1918 an Australian soldier named Thomas James Quinn wrote to his family; 'I am enclosing a map of Australia on the hill here at Hurdcott.

'It is done with white chalk stone and is longingly watched by the troops camped here', he wrote.

The lettering is 18ft (5m) tall and is believed to have taken 17 weeks to complete when it was first created. The restoration started on 24 June this summer

References in diaries and letters at the time suggest that creating the badge was more punishment than pleasure. The restoration (pictured) finished on 3rd October

The restoration started in June. Australian battalions had been at Hurdcott Camp since 1916 but it was not until 1917 that it was officially taken over by the Australian Imperial Forces

====== 1612 ========

CONSUMERS IN THE UK THROW AWAY 295 BILLION PIECES OF PLASTIC WASTE A YEAR

People in the UK throw away around 295 billion pieces of plastic every year much of which is single-use and cannot be recycled, a new report suggests.

Campaigner Daniel Webb has revealed the extent of the plastic waste an individual gets through in the UK and how little of it is recycled in this country.

For a year Mr Webb, who lives in Margate, Kent, stored all the plastic waste he threw in the bin, collecting a total of 4,490 individual pieces of plastic.

Some 93 per cent of the plastic he used in a year was single-use packaging and two thirds was used to package, wrap and consume food.

Around 70 per cent was not currently recyclable, his Everyday Plastic report estimates.

Scroll down for video

People in the UK throw away around 295 billion pieces of plastic every year much of which is single-use and cannot be recycled, claims a new report

Based on national collection rates of recyclable material, only 10 per cent of the plastic he got through in a year would be recycled, with just four per cent recycled at UK recycling facilities and the rest exported.

The remaining plastic waste would be sent to landfill or burned.

With Mr Webb's plastic consumption close to average levels, the report says nationwide, the UK is likely to be throwing away 295 billion pieces of plastic every year.

Mr Webb raised concerns that plastic recycling in the UK was a 'poorly funded system' which needs significant investment and improvement.

He said: 'We can't just rely on recycling to fix plastic pollution.

'Most importantly, we need to produce and use much less plastic.

'Our fast-moving disposable society means that we are using more single-use things than ever, so we need to rethink how we consume.'

For a year campaigner Daniel Webb stored all the plastic waste he threw in the bin, collecting a total of 4,490 individual pieces of plastic. This image shows milk cartons he collected

Only 10 per cent of the plastic he got through in a year would be recycled, with just four per cent recycled at UK recycling facilities and the rest exported. This image shows single use products ranging from blister packs to coffee stirrers and straws

The remaining plastic waste would be sent to landfill or burned. This image shows disposable coffee cup lids used by Mr Webb

With Mr Webb's plastic consumption close to average levels, his report estimates that nationwide, the UK is likely to be throwing away 295 billion pieces of plastic every year. This image shows flexible plastic food and other forms of packaging

Earth sciences researcher Dr Julie Schneider, who helped compile the report, added: 'Plastic bottles can be properly recycled, but what about the plastic film that wraps our vegetables, pasta and sweets? All the plastic packaging stamped with the 'not currently recycled' logo?

'It turns out that 70 per cent of Daniel's plastic waste is not currently recyclable. This is an issue that needs to be addressed urgently. '

Hugo Tagholm, chief executive at environmental charity Surfers Against Sewage, said 'The Everyday Plastic report not only exposes the sheer diversity and volume of single-use plastic we all have to navigate daily, but as alarmingly, the inadequacy of current recycling systems, which only return a paltry amount of material back to shop shelves.

'Reducing the use of pointless plastics is a priority – there is just too much plastic currently being made.'

Earth sciences researcher Dr Julie Schneider, who helped compile the report, added: 'Plastic bottles can be properly recycled, but what about the plastic film that wraps our vegetables, pasta and sweets?'. This image shows non recyclable food packaging

'It turns out that 70 per cent of Daniel's plastic waste is not currently recyclable. This is an issue that needs to be addressed urgently', Dr Schneider added. This image shows trays used as containers for vegetables in supermarkets

Hugo Tagholm, chief executive at environmental charity Surfers Against Sewage, said 'The Everyday Plastic report exposes.. the inadequacy of current recycling systems.' This image shows packaging for crisps and other snacks

====== 1613 ========

PLANET NINE DOES EXIST: 'ETERNALLY OPTIMISTIC' ASTRONOMERS SAY WE WILL FIND EVIDENCE OF IT

It is one of the biggest mysteries in the universe - and could be hiding in plain sight.

Many astronomers are still convinced 'Planet Nine' exists beyond Jupiter.

'Every time we take a picture,' Surhud More, an astronomer at the University of Tokyo told the Washington Post, 'there is this possibility that Planet Nine exists in the shot.'

While evidence for its existence stacks up, no telescope has yet been able to spot it.

Scroll down for video

Astronomers are still convinced a mysterious 'Planet Nine' exists beyond Jupiter. 'Every time we take a picture,' Surhud More, an astronomer at the University of Tokyo told the Washington Post, 'there is this possibility that Planet Nine exists in the shot.'

Michael Brown, an astronomer at the California Institute of Technology, says he feels 'eternally optimistic' that someone will soon find it - but experts say it could be essentially invisible to existing observatories.

'It might be lingering bashfully on the icy outer edges of our solar system, hiding in the dark, but subtly pulling strings behind the scenes: stretching out the orbits of distant bodies, perhaps even tilting the entire solar system to one side,' NASA said.

Astronomers have debated whether an elusive ninth planet orbits beyond Pluto for years, but a recent study may finally prove the mysterious world is real.

Researchers spotted a distant rocky object that they suggest was pushed into an 'extraordinary orbit' by the gravitational pull of an uncharted planet.

They say that their finding bolsters the ever-convincing case that a so-called 'Planet Nine' exists.

Planet Nine was first theorised by experts at Caltech in 2016 when they spotted that a group of icy objects on the edges of the solar system have tilted orbits.

They suggested the orbits of these lumps of ice - so-called Trans-Neptunian objects (TNOs) - were warped by the gravitational pull of a ninth planet in the solar system.

An undiscovered world may be lurking in the outer reaches of the solar system. Astronomers have debated whether an elusive 'Planet Nine' (artist's impression) orbits beyond Pluto for years, but a new study may finally prove the mysterious world is real

The objects had elliptical orbits that pointed in the same direction and were tilted 30 degrees 'downward' compared to the plane in which planets circle the sun.

While Planet Nine has never been spotted, a number of astronomers - including scientists at Nasa - have since released research that supports the theory.

In a new paper a group of experts led by the University of Michigan describe a distant object that they spotted in 2014 that could be as large as a dwarf planet.

WHAT IS MYSTERIOUS 'PLANET X'? Astronomers believe that the orbits of a number of bodies in the distant reaches of the solar system have been disrupted by the pull of an as yet unidentified planet. First proposed by a group at CalTech in the US, this alien world was theorised to explain the distorted paths seen in distant icy bodies. In order to fit in with the data they have, this alien world - popularly called Planet Nine - would need to be roughly four time the size of Earth and ten times the mass. Researchers say a body of this size and mass would explain the clustered paths of a number of icy minor planets beyond Neptune. Its huge orbit would mean it takes between 10,000 and 20,000 years to make a single pass around the sun. The theoretical Planet Nine is based on the gravitational pull it exerts on these bodies, with astronomers confident it will be found in the coming years. Those hoping for theoretical Earth-sized planets proposed by astrologers or science fiction writers - which are 'hiding behind the sun' and linked with Doomsday scenarios - may have to keep searching.

The rocky body, dubbed 2015 BP519, peaked the team's interest because its orbit is unusually tilted away from the plane that most objects that orbit the sun lie.

They used computer simulations of the solar system to explore how this strange trajectory may have arisen.

Simulations where our star system had eight planets did not reproduce 2015 BP519's tilted orbit.

When researchers added a ninth planet that matched the properties of those proposed by the Caltech researchers, the simulation reproduced 2015 BP519's current orbit almost exactly.

'It's not proof that Planet Nine exists,' Professor David Gerdes, an astronomer at the University of Michigan and a co-author on the new paper, told Quanta.

'But I would say the presence of an object like this in our solar system bolsters the case for Planet Nine.'

This image shows the orbit of 2015 BP519 (blue) as well as other TNOs as comparisons. For each orbit, the darker regions on the curve show where an object falls below the plane of the solar system. 2015 BP519 has the highest inclination of any extreme TNO discovered to date

The study adds to piling evidence for the existence of Planet Nine, though astronomers remain latched to their telescopes in search of the object.

In October 2017 Nasa weighed in on the debate, highlighting five different lines of evidence pointing to the existence of the object.

It said that imagining that Planet Nine does not exist generates more problems than it solves.

In 2016, researchers examined the orbits of six objects in a distant region of icy bodies stretching beyond Neptune. The objects had orbits that point in the same direction and are tilted 30° 'downward' compared to the solar plane in which the eight planets circle the sun

Dr Konstantin Batygin, a planetary astrophysicist at Caltech in Pasadena, whose team is closing in on finding Planet Nine, said: 'There are now five different lines of observational evidence pointing to the existence of Planet Nine.

'If you were to remove this explanation and imagine Planet Nine does not exist, then you generate more problems than you solve.

'All of a sudden, you have five different puzzles, and you must come up with five different theories to explain them.'

Researchers are now using the Subaru Telescope in Hawaii in the hopes of finding Planet Nine, and hope that its detection will also shed light on its origin.

In 2016, Dr Batygin published a study that examined the orbits of six objects in the Kuiper Belt - a distant region of icy bodies stretching from Neptune outward toward interstellar space.

His findings revealed that the objects all had elliptical orbits that point in the same direction and are tilted 30 degrees 'downward' compared to the plane in which the eight planets circle the sun.

To investigate this further, the researchers used computer simulations of the solar system with Planet Nine included, and showed that there should be more objects tilted at 90 degrees to the plane of the eight planets.

The team realised that five objects already known to astronomers fit the bill.

Following this study, two more clues emerged about Planet Nine.

A second article by Dr Batygin's team, led by Ms Elizabeth Bailey, showed that Planet Nine could have tilted the planets of our solar system during the last 4.5 billion years.

Dr Batygin said: 'Over long periods of time, Planet Nine will make the entire solar-system plane precess or wobble, just like a top on a table.'

Finally, the researchers demonstrate how Planet Nine's presence could explain why Kuiper Belt objects orbit in the opposite direction from everything else in the solar system.

Dr Batygin said: 'No other model can explain the weirdness of these high-inclination orbits. It turns out that Planet Nine provides a natural avenue for their generation.

'These things have been twisted out of the solar system plane with help from Planet Nine and then scattered inward by Neptune.'

The researchers now hope to find Planet Nine itself using the Subaru Telescope at Mauna Kea Observatory in Hawaii, which they describe as the 'best tool' for the job.

Dr Batygin added: 'I think Planet Nine's detection will tell us something about its origin.'

====== 1614 ========

ENVIRONMENTAL PHOTOGRAPHER OF THE YEAR 2018 IMAGES REVEAL THE FRAGILE STATE OF PLANET EARTH

Man screams for help as he clings to the bonnet of his stolen van

====== 1615 ========

'GLACIER FLOUR' DUST CLOUDS SPOTTED OVER THE ICE OF GREENLAND

The biggest dust storm ever seen over Greenland has been revealed in a series of stunning satellite images.

The unusual event is caused by 'glacial flour', a fine-grained silt formed by glaciers grinding and pulverizing rock.

Scientists have never been able to study the phenomenon in large storms until last month, when satellite images captured a storm.

Scroll down for video

The Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) on NASA’s Terra satellite and a sensor on the European Space Agency’s Sentinel-2 collected imagery on September 29, 2018, of a sizable silt plume streaming from Greenland’s east coast

WHAT IS GLACIAL FLOUR? Glacial flour is a fine-grained silt formed by glaciers grinding and pulverizing rock. Glacial flour is the smallest size of sediment, much smaller than sand, and is responsible for the milky, colored water in the rivers, streams, and lakes that are fed by glaciers. Because this sediment is so fine, it is easily transported by and suspended in water. In this case, NASA says the glacial flour was likely made by several glaciers farther up the valley, then carried south by meltwater streams and deposited in the floodplain.

'This is by far the biggest event detected and reported by satellites that I know about,' said Santiago Gassó, an atmospheric scientist at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center.

He first noticed the storm on October 3.

'We have seen a few examples of small dust events before this one, but they are quite difficult to spot with satellites because of cloud cover,' said Joanna Bullard of Loughborough University.

'When dust events do happen, field data from Iceland and West Greenland indicate that they rarely last longer than two days.'

The Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) on NASA's Terra satellite and a sensor on the European Space Agency's Sentinel-2 collected the first imagery of the storm on September 29, 2018, showing a sizable silt plume streaming from Greenland's east coast.

The source was a braided stream valley about 130 kilometers (80 miles) northwest of Ittoqqortoomiit, a village at a latitude of 73 degrees North.

That puts the village north of the northern coast of Alaska.

The series of Landsat and Sentinel 2 images show the floodplain where the stream flows into Scoresby Sound.

As the soil on the floodplain dried out, the floodplain became increasingly gray.

Northwesterly winds on September 29 were strong enough to lift glacial flour into the air.

The series of Landsat and Sentinel 2 images above and below—captured on September 21, 23, 29, and 30—shows the floodplain where the stream flows into Scoresby Sound. As the soil on the floodplain dried out (first two images), the floodplain became increasingly gray. Northwesterly winds on September 29 were strong enough to lift glacial flour into the air.

The glacial flour was likely made by several glaciers farther up the valley, then carried south by meltwater streams and deposited in the floodplain.

As stream water levels dropped in autumn, the floodplain dried out and became susceptible to scouring by the wind.

In this case, Bullard noted, the winds were triggered by the combination of a low-pressure system crossing the Greenland ice sheet followed closely by a ridge of high pressure.

Since high-latitude dust events are poorly understood, they are typically not included in atmospheric and climate models.

Gasso hopes that eventually they will be included because they could have effects on air quality, the reflectivity of snow, and even marine biology.

====== 1616 ========

WORLD'S FIRST TEST TUBE LION CUBS ARE 'HEALTHY AND NORMAL'

The world's first test tube lion cubs are 'healthy and normal' five weeks after they were born in South Africa, raising hopes that other big cats including species of tiger and snow leopard could be saved from extinction.

A lioness gave birth to Victor and Isabel at a game reserve in August after she was artificially impregnated with sperm from a healthy lion, following 18 months of intensive trials.

In the latest pictures at the Ukutula Lodge and Conservation Centre near Pretoria, South Africa, Victor and Isabel are seen playing boisterously with each other and resting under a tree.

Lions are extinct in 26 African countries and numbers in the wild have plummeted 43 percent over the last two decades, with roughly only 20,000 left.

Victor and Isabel - the world's first lion cubs born through artificial insemination - rest under a tree at the Ukutula private game conservation centre in South Africa, five weeks after they were born following a successful experiment

A lioness gave birth to Victor and Isabel, pictured playing together, at a game reserve in August after she was artificially impregnated with sperm from a healthy lion, following 18 months of intensive trials

How does artificial insemination work? Scientists hope artificial insemination could be used to save endangered animals from extinction. Human couples who opt for the technology see specialists who use ultrasounds, blood tests or ovulation kits to check to see if a woman is ovulating at the time of her procedure. A sample of sperm is then required from the woman's chosen donor; the doctor puts the sample in a catheter that is threaded through the woman's vagina and cervix before reaching her uterus. The success rate for the procedure varies. The following can affect the chances a woman has of becoming pregnant thanks to artificial insemination: the woman's age

the quality of the sperm and egg

a condition called endometriosis

fallopian tube damage

fallopian tube blockage Scientists near Chicago recently tried to use artificial insemination technology to impregnate a wolf. Their hope is that the technology can revive the species, which has been considered endangered since 1976.

'These are the first ever lion cubs to be born by means of artificial insemination - the first such pair anywhere in the world,' said the University of Pretoria, where scientists are researching female lions' reproducive systems.

The two cubs born on August 25 are healthy and normal, said Andre Ganswindt, the director of the university's mammal research institute.

He said: 'We collected sperm from a healthy lion, and luckily it was successful. There were several attempts, but surprisingly it didn't take too much effort'.

The breakthrough could be repeated, he said, with scientists hoping the technique can be used to save other endangered big cats.

'If we are not doing something about it, they will face extinction,' he said.

He said that rather than move the lions for breeding, the new technique would let breeders transport the sperm to receptive females, as is done with the captive elephant population in North America and Europe.

The findings are part of research being done by Isabel Callealta, a Spanish veterinarian and PhD student at the University of Pretoria.

The female cub was named after her and the male cub after her fiancé Victor.

Callealta personally trained the lions to lie next to a fence, where they would freely give blood samples to determine hormonal levels and assess the perfect time for insemination.

She said: 'This was a world first for lions and now we start a journey and the idea is to improve or knowledge and understanding of the big cats and move the research quickly forward.

'The research will hopefully mean we can start working towards carrying out similar procedures on some of the much rarer big cats like the snow leopard and the tiger in the future'.

There are thought to be less than 4,000 tigers left in the wild in Asia and less than 7,000 snow leopards in the mountains of Central Asia and as few as 300 Iberian Lynx in Spain.

The research was carried out at the Ukutula Conservation Center, 50 miles north-west of Pretoria in South Africa's North West province.

One of the lion cubs rests their paw on the other's head as the animals play under a tree at the South African game reserve in the latest pictures since a lioness gave birth to Victor and Isabel after she was artificially inseminated

The world's first lion cubs born through artificial insemination press their noses against each other at the game reserve. Scientists believe the breakthrough could help to rescue other big cats including species of tiger from extinction

One of the lion cubs looks straight ahead as it lies under a tree in South Africa. Lions are extinct in 26 African countries and numbers in the wild have plummeted 43 percent over the last two decades, with roughly only 20,000 left

Imke Lueders, a scientist involved in the study, said 'having the first lion cubs ever born from artificial insemination in their natural range country, and not in a zoo overseas, is an important milestone for South Africa'.

'Assisted reproduction techniques are another tool in our conservation box, of course not a sole solution, but another technology that we can use to protect endangered species,' she said.

Andre Mentz, a prominent lion breeder in South Africa's Free State province, described the birth of the cubs as 'very revolutionary'.

But animal welfare organisations are less enthused.

'The captive lion breeding industry in South Africa is exploitative and profit-driven,' said Mark Jones of the Born Free Foundation.

'It generates its income through interaction activities (lion cub petting and lion walks), canned trophy hunting of lions and the lion skeleton trade, while contributing nothing to lion conservation,' he added.

A group of 18 international and African conservation organisations wrote a letter addressed to the scientists saying they do not support the study, but did acknowledge artificial insemination could help other imperilled wild cats like the cheetah.

The two cubs born on August 25 - pictured having a play fight at the game reserve near Pretoria in South Africa - are healthy and normal, said the director of the mammal research institute where scientists are studying lions' reproductive systems

====== 1617 ========

ANCIENT HUMANS IN THE MIDDLE EAST ATE CEREALS, LEGUMES, DAIRY PRODUCTS AND MEAT

Ancient humans in the Middle East ate venison and peas and drank milk from sheep and goats, a very detailed study of the early human diet has revealed.

Research at a farming site in central Anatolia, in what is now Turkey, has uncovered an extraordinary picture of what humans ate more than 8,000 years ago.

Farmers in the settlement of Çatalhöyük had extensive knowledge of dairy farming from sheep and goats and ate meats which scientists were able to narrow down to specific species.

Researchers found evidence of foods that were eaten there by analysing proteins from residues in ancient pots and jars excavated from the site.

Researchers were able to find evidence of foods that were eaten there by analysing proteins from residues in ancient pots and jars excavated from the site

What is the ancient farming site? Çatalhöyük was a large settlement inhabited from about 7100 BC to 5600 BC by early farmers, and is located in what is now central Turkey. The site showcases a fascinating layout in which houses were built directly next to each other in every direction and stands out for its excellent preservation of finds. After over 25 years of excavation and analysis, it is considered one of the best-researched early farming sites in the Old World. An even greater variety of foods, especially plant foods, were likely eaten at Çatalhöyük, which either were not contained in the vessels they studied or are not present in the databases they use to identify proteins.

Although previous studies have looked at pot residues from the site, this was the first to use proteins, which can be used to identify plants and animals more specifically and sometimes down to the species level.

The dairy products were shown to have come mostly from sheep and goats, and also from the cattle family.

Cereals eaten by the ancient humans included barley and wheat, and legumes included peas and vetches.

Scientists from the Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History, the Freie Universität Berlin and the University of York carried out the research.

The non-dairy animal products, which might have included meat and blood, came primarily from the goat and sheep family, and in some cases from cattle and deer.

Many of the pots contained evidence of multiple food types in a single vessel, suggesting that the residents mixed foods in their cuisine, potentially as porridges or soups.

Another vessel indicated that the ancient farmers separated fresh milk into curds and whey.

Lead author Jessica Hendy said: 'This is particularly interesting because it suggests that the residents may have been using dairy production methods that separated fresh milk into curds and whey.

'It also suggests that they had a special vessel for holding the whey afterwards, meaning that they used the whey for additional purposes after the curd was separated.'

Other research techniques can reveal broad classes of food - such as evidence of dairy or animal fat - but an analysis of proteins allows a much more detailed picture of past cuisine, the scientists said.

The residues on the insides of the ceramics were exceptionally well-preserved and contained a 'wealth of information', they said.

Research at a farming site (pictured) in central Anatolia, in what is now Turkey, has uncovered an astonishingly detailed picture of the human diet which included extensive knowledge of dairy farming

====== 1618 ========

ELON MUSK SUGGESTS HE WANTS TO BUILD A GIANT KILLER ROBOT

Elon Musk’s latest Twitter revelation has anime fans around the world buzzing with excitement.

The Tesla and SpaceX CEO tweeted that it’s ‘time to create a mecha,’ in a nod to the killer humanoid robots made popular by science fiction and a slew of anime series, including Neon Genesis Evangelion, Code Geass, and Gundam.

The seemingly unprompted statement came not long after Musk revealed his appreciation for the wildly successful movie, Your Name, which became the highest grossing anime film of all time after it was released in 2016.

Scroll down for video

The Tesla and SpaceX CEO tweeted this week that it’s ‘time to create a mecha,’ in a nod to the killer humanoid robots made popular by science fiction and a slew of anime series, including Neon Genesis Evangelion (right), Code Geass, and Gundam

Don’t start building a doomsday bunker just yet, though; as with many of the eccentric CEO’s previous Twitter claims, the latest statement should be taken with a grain of salt.

In a refreshing change from his recent headline-grabbing outbursts, Musk sparked a positive conversation about anime on Twitter earlier this week after sharing the trailer for the 2016 anime Your Name, noting that he loves the movie.

The tweet prompted enthusiastic replies from fans of the genre, with many wondering what other anime he watches.

One Twitter user went as far as to call him ‘weeblon Musk,’ in a play on both his name and a term commonly used to describe non-Japanese fans of the culture.

After revealing his love for the Studio Ghibli classics Spirited Away and Princess Mononoke, as well as the show Neon Genesis Evangelion in the ensuing thread, the SpaceX boss separately tweeted: ‘It is time to create a mecha.’

But, as is often the case, he failed to elaborate on the idea.

The tech mogul has been embroiled in controversy for the last few months, much of which has sprung up as a result of his Twitter activity.

Most recently, Musk sparked a lawsuit from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission after claiming on the social media site that he was considering taking his electric car company private at $420 per share.

Mecha can be seen in anime and science fiction, such as the 2013 movie Pacific Rim (shown above)

At first glance, you might mistake this enormous robot for a character from the latest Transformers blockbuster. But the 16 foot (five meter) tall machine is a robot called Eagle Prime that is ready to take on Japan in the Megabots Giant Robot Dual league

The move was met with instant backlash, leading up to yesterday’s settlement between Musk and the federal regulator.

On Tuesday, both Tesla and its CEO agreed to pay a total of $40 million in fines, and the firm will be required to tighten its grip on Musk’s communications with investors.

Musk was also hit with a lawsuit last month by British cave explorer Vernon Unsworth, who he referred to online as a ‘pedo guy’ following the diver’s efforts to assist in the rescue of a Thai boys’ soccer team this summer.

====== 1619 ========

UKRAINIAN DEMON DRONE CAN BE FITTED WITH GUNS AND EXPLOSIVES

A 'war drone' that can be fitted with everything form machine guns to explosives and rocket grenades has been revealed.

The founder of Ukrainian firm called Matrix UAV, Yuriy Kasyanov, posted a video of the prototype drone to his Facebook page.

'Armed with a grenade launcher, the unit is designed to inflict sudden, precise strikes on armored vehicles, fire points, air defense equipment, and enemy headquarters at a distance of up to 10 kilometers' Kasyanov says in the post.

Scroll down for video

The Ukranian drone has been tested carrying a grenade launcher, and is designed to inflict 'sudden, precise strikes'

He claims the Demon could also carry out kamikaze strikes up to 12 miles away, diving directly onto its target with a 7-kilogram bomb.

For more remote attacks, Kasyanov says a a 4-kilogram payload could be carried 56 miles.

In the Facebook comments he also claims the firm had successfully test fired the drone without losing control - although no video of this has been posted.

The first prototype of the Demon UAV is fitted with the RPG-26 grenade launcher.

It can also carry small arms and a bomb load weighing up to 5 kg.

The firm says the grenade launcher could be used for surprise attacks on armored vehicles, firing points, air defense systems and enemy headquarters at distances up to 10 km.

The drone will be controlled by an operator.

The threat of drone attacks has heightened in recent weeks after an alleged 'drone attack' against the president of Venezuela.- although many claim it was faked after TV cameras failed to capture the 'missiles' and firefighters said the incident was actually a gas tank explosion.

Nicolas Maduro started rounding up his political opponents after blaming them for what he called an assassination attempt on Saturday.

Maduro had been addressing a military parade in Caracas on live TV, when he suddenly halted and looked to the sky after hearing an explosion.

He and his wife Cilia Flores were swamped with aides carrying bulletproof shields but both escaped uninjured.

Maduro claimed a 'flying device' exploded before his eyes and quickly blamed his 'ultra-right' opponents, but no drones were seen on television footage, which cut out after the incident.

No footage of drones emerged on social media either.

Then, three fire officials at the scene disputed the government's version of events, claiming the attack was actually a gas tank explosion inside the Residencias Don Eduardo apartment building.

====== 1620 ========

SCIENTISTS TAKE ULTRASOUNDS FROM WILD WHALE SHARKS IN THE GALAPAGOS

It's the biggest fish in the sea, often found roaming in warm waters around the globe with its huge mouth agape in search of dinner.

Yet despite its hulking appearance, the whale shark is actually surprisingly docile.

It's thanks to this docile nature that scientists in the Galapagos have been able to complete ultrasounds and take blood samples from the shark for the first time.

The incredible results allowed them to see and identify reproductive organs, such as the ovaries, and even developing follicles.

Researchers say the study could help unlock the mystery of breeding in the world's largest sharks.

Researchers led by conservationists from the Galapagos Whale Shark Project looked at whale sharks near Darwin Island, in the far north of the Galapagos Archipelago.

This remote volcanic island is one of the few places where huge adult female whale sharks, which are up to 14 m (45 ft) in length, are commonly seen each year.

The main aim of the expedition was to assess the sharks' reproductive state.

While they are comparable in size to whales, whale sharks are sharks.

They typically grow to be bigger than a double-decker bus: between 6 to 16 meters (20 to 52 feet) and more than 20 tons.

But as filter feeders, the enormous whale sharks are dangerous only to the plankton, fish eggs and tiny fish they chomp on.

The gentle giants aren't particularly fast when compared to other sharks, but a simple wave of their tail propels them through the water faster than any human could ever swim.

'Almost nothing is known about the reproduction of these giant sharks', said Jonathan R. Green, the expedition leader and founder of the Galapagos Whale Shark Project.

'After I first saw these huge female whale sharks in the far north Galapagos, I realised that this was a great opportunity to learn more', said Dr Green.

'We've been able to put together an experienced team to research sharks in this remote area, one of the world's most isolated dive sites.'

Whale shark breeding is still a mystery.

It's the biggest shark in the sea, often found roaming in warm waters around the globe with its huge mouth agape in search of dinner. Yet despite its hulking appearance, the whale shark is actually incredible docile and only has tiny, almost useless teeth

Researchers say the study could help unlock the mystery of breeding in the world's largest sharks. Pictured is an ultrasound

No one knows how many whale sharks are left but rough estimates put their numbers somewhere in the tens of thousands worldwide. Pictured is an ultrasound

It's thanks to its docile nature that scientists have been able to complete ultrasounds and take blood samples from these sharks in the Galapagos

The incredible results allowed them to see and identify reproductive organs, such as the ovaries, and even developing follicles

WHAT ARE WHALE SHARKS AND ARE THEY ENDANGERED? The number of whale sharks (Rhincodon typus) has more than halved over the last 75 years, with legal and illegal fishing, entrapment in fishing gear, and collisions with boats blamed for most deaths. No one knows how many are left but rough estimates put their numbers somewhere in the tens of thousands worldwide. Fishing for the large, slow-moving sharks is particularly prevalent in China and Oman, though the species is showing some recovery in the Western Hemisphere and in India, the Philippines and Taiwan, thanks to legal protections. While they are comparable in size to whales, whale sharks are sharks. They typically grow to be bigger than a double-decker bus: between 6 to 16 meters (20 to 52 feet) and more than 20 tons They feed by scooping huge amounts of tiny plankton and small fish from the water - particularly near the surface and in warm water. They typically grow to be bigger than a double-decker bus: between 6 to 16 meters (20 to 52 feet) and more than 20 tons. But as filter feeders, the enormous whale sharks are dangerous only to the plankton, fish eggs and tiny fish they chomp on.

'Only one pregnant shark has been physically examined so far, back in 1995 in Taiwan', Dr Simon Pierce, an expedition member from the Marine Megafauna Foundation said.

'That 'megamamma' shark had 304 little whale shark eggs and pups inside, all less than 60cm in length.'

The team conducted scans using a 17kg (38lbs) ultrasound system in a waterproofed case.

Whale sharks have tough protective skin which is more than 20cm thick on some individuals, so the ultrasound system had to be incredibly powerful.

Dr Matsumoto also had to use a propeller system mounted on his air-tank to keep up with the sharks.

Researchers led by conservationists from the Galapagos Whale Shark Project looked at whale sharks near Darwin Island, in the far north of the Galapagos Archipelago

This remote volcanic island is one of the few places where huge adult female whale sharks, which are up to 14 m (45 ft) in length, are commonly seen each year

The main aim of the expedition was to assess the sharks' reproductive state. While they are comparable in size to whales, whale sharks are sharks

They typically grow to be bigger than a double-decker bus: between 6 to 16 meters (20 to 52 feet) and more than 20 tons

The initial results were promising:

'We confirmed the presence of follicles in the ovaries but none of the images captured embryos or egg capsules inside the uterus', said Dr Matsumoto.

'These adult female sharks we saw at Darwin Island might be on their way to mate further offshore.

'I am confident that we can judge the sexual maturity, and probably also determine the pregnancy of whale sharks in the field, using the underwater ultrasound'.

Researchers attached satellite-linked tags to the sharks to track their onwards movements.

'We've tagged whale sharks in Galapagos before, but there are lots of predatory sharks at Darwin and they often try to eat the tags, which can rip them out of the whale sharks almost immediately', said Professor Alex Hearn from the University of San Francisco.

To reduce early tag loss, researchers tried a different method on this trip, clamping the tags to the tip of the dorsal fins.

The gentle giants aren't particularly fast when compared to other sharks, but a simple wave of their tail propels them through the water faster than any human could ever swim

'Almost nothing is known about the reproduction of these giant sharks', said Jonathan R. Green, the expedition leader and founder of the Galapagos Whale Shark Project

'After I first saw these huge female whale sharks in the far north Galapagos, I realised that this was a great opportunity to learn more', said Dr Green

'We've been able to put together an experienced team to research sharks in this remote area, one of the world's most isolated dive sites', Dr Green said

'All tags are transmitting well, so we should get great information on where these sharks swim over the months to come', said Professor Hearn

Kiyomi Murakumo from Okinawa Churashima Foundation, successfully collected blood samples from six adult sharks

'All tags are transmitting well, so we should get great information on where these sharks swim over the months to come', said Professor Hearn.

Kiyomi Murakumo from Okinawa Churashima Foundation, successfully collected blood samples from six adult sharks.

'Sex steroid hormone levels in the blood are an excellent way to monitor reproduction in individual sharks', Dr Murakumo said.

'This study measured levels of estradiol, progesterone and testosterone of wild, adult female whale sharks for the first time in the world.

'Estradiol could be associated with follicular development, and progesterone could be involved in ovulation and pregnancy.

'Over time, as we sample more whale sharks, we can build up a complete picture of their reproductive cycle by combining the blood sampling with the ultrasonography.'

'Sex steroid hormone levels in the blood are an excellent way to monitor reproduction in individual sharks', Dr Murakumo said

'This study measured levels of estradiol, progesterone and testosterone of wild, adult female whale sharks for the first time in the world'

Whale sharks feed by scooping huge amounts of tiny plankton and small fish from the water - particularly near the surface and in warm water

They typically grow to be bigger than a double-decker bus: between 6 to 16 meters (20 to 52 feet) and more than 20 tons

====== 1621 ========

2,000-YEAR-OLD PAINTED TOMB DISCOVERED IN ITALY WITH BANQUET DRAWING

A painted tomb with a 2,000-year-old drawing of a banquet 'frozen in time' has been uncovered in Italy.

Archaeologists found the ornately-decorated burial site in Cumae, a ruined city in modern Italy which was among the first ancient Greek settlements in western Europe.

Researchers have been working at the site since 2001 but all the tombs they had found so far had been painted all red or white.

In June this year they found the more decorative tomb with the wall paintings, which appeared to have been raided during the 19th century.

A painted tomb with a 2,000-year-old drawing of a banquet has been uncovered in Italy where archaeologists found the ornately-decorated burial site in Cumae, a ruined ancient city

What was the settlement of Cumae? Cumae is regarded as the first settlement started by the ancient Greeks in modern Italy. It lies around 15 miles west of Naples, southern Italy. Historians believe the city was first founded in the 8th century BC. The ancient city of Cumae was twice the size of its more famous neighbour Pompeii, researchers said. In archaeological digs since 2001 researchers have found hundreds of ancient sepulchres.

They recovered remains and traces of funerary furnishings, which archaeologists have used to date the tombs to the second century BC.

The people buried in the chamber - which now stands empty - must have had a 'high social status', experts believe.

A naked servant carrying a jug of wine and a vase is one of the most prominent drawings on the 2,000-year-old wall.

Much of the rest of the painting has faded away but it is believed that other guests at the banquet were depicted on the tomb's remaining walls.

In a bid to preserve the fresco archaeologists removed it from the Italian site along with fragments on the ground.

They then re-assembled the décor 'like a puzzle', according to the the French National Centre for Scientific Research.

A statement from the centre said: 'In addition to the excellent state of conservation of the remaining plaster and pigments, such a décor in a tomb built in that period is rare.

'Its 'unfashionable' subject matter was in vogue one or two centuries earlier. This discovery is also an opportunity to trace artistic activity over time at the site.'

A Greek sanctuary, roads and a necropolis have previously been found in the area, around 15 miles west of Naples.

====== 1622 ========

JAPANESE CONSTRUCTION ROBOT CAN PICK UP AND DRILL IN DRYWALL BY ITSELF

A Japanese robot that can pick up and drill in a drywall all by itself could provide a glimpse into the future of construction.

The smart robot, HRP-5P, uses object detection and motion planning to perform its construction tasks – albeit very slowly.

It can use small hooks to grab the board, carry it across the room and then drill it in the desired spot.

CAN AI ROBOTS REPLACE CONSTRUCTION WORKERS? Robotics are common in manufacturing sites, such as auto plants, but those machines are stationery and carrying out the same task over and over, often in sterile and enclosed environments. Robots used in construction sites have to move around. Although much of what they may do is repetitive, they still have to respond to uneven floors and zigzagging routes, depending on a building's design. Shimizu says it is developing its own artificial intelligence systems, using robots made by Kuka Robotics of Germany. If they work successfully, the robots could help reduce safety risks and long hours for construction workers. Using robots makes sense in urban construction, where buildings are high-rise and the same work is repeated on each floor.

Tokyo-based developers from Japan's Advanced Industrial Science and Technology Institute (AIST) say the robot could replace workers assembling ships and aircraft who are often carrying out dangerous work.

They want to use HRP-5P as a development platform for collaboration between industry and academia.

The robot is 182cm (5"10) tall, weighs 101kg (15.9 stone) and can lift things that are 'rug-sized', according to its developers.

Researchers said that 'it is expected that research and development for practical use of humanoid robots in building construction sites and assembly of large structures such as aircraft and ships will be accelerated', writes Tech Crunch.

The robot relies on sensors to take 3D measurements of their surroundings in real-time.

It also relies on augmented reality markers so it knows what object it is picking up.

The robot – which walks using baby steps and moves cautiously – is set to go on show at the World Robot Expo 2018 later this month.

'It is expected that many industries such as the construction industry will fall into serious manual shortages in the future, and it is urgent to solve this problem by robot technology,' according to developers.

A Japanese robot that can pick up and drill in a drywall all by itself could provide a glimpse into the future of construction

The smart robot, HRP-5P, uses object detection and motion planning to perform its construction tasks – albeit very slowly

This is not the first robot Japanese researchers have developed to help cope with a shortage of human workers.

Earlier this year Japanese construction company Shimizu Corporation showed off several worker robots that can weld, lift and bolt things together.

The Robo-Welder and Robo-Buddy will be deployed at construction sites later this year, the company said.

Japan's construction sector is booming but contractors are struggling to fill labour shortages – a problem playing out in other parts of the world, including the US.

It can use small hooks to grab the board, carry it across the room and then drill it in the desired spot. The robot – which walks using baby steps and moves cautiously – is set to go on show at the World Robot Expo 2018 later this month

The robot is 182cm (5"10) tall, weighs 101kg (15.9 stone) and can lift things that are 'rug-sized', according to its developers

Robotics are common in manufacturing sites, such as auto plants, but those machines are stationery and carrying out the same task over and over, often in sterile and enclosed environments.

Robots used in construction sites have to move around.

Although much of what they may do is repetitive, they still have to respond to uneven floors and zigzagging routes, depending on a building's design.

====== 1623 ========

EXTREMELY RARE 900-YEAR-OLD VIKING NECKLACE THAT DEPICTS 'THOR'S HAMMER' HAS BEEN FOUND IN ICELAND

In Norse mythology, Thor's hammer helped prevent giants from destroying Asgard, the celestial home of the gods.

Now a 900-year-old 'Thor's Hammer' Viking necklace carved from sandstone has been found in Iceland for the first time.

The extremely rare lucky charm was discovered at a previously unexplored site alongside an iron pick and a stone called a 'whet' which is used for sharpening blades.

In Norse mythology, Thor's hammer helped prevent giants from destroying Asgard, the celestial home of the gods. Now a 900-year-old 'Thor's Hammer' Viking necklace (pictured) carved from sandstone has been found in Iceland for the first time

WHAT IS THE HAMMER OF THOR? In Norse mythology, Mjölnir (pronounced roughly 'miol-neer') is the name given to the hammer of Thor, a major Norse god associated with thunder. The hammer is described in Norse mythology as one of the most powerful weapons, capable of levelling mountains. It was used by Thor to guard Asgard, the celestial stronghold of the Aesir, the main tribe of gods and goddesses in Norse mythology. As well as being a weapon, legend has it that Thor's hammer also occupied a key role in religous rituals of cleansing. It was used in formal ceremonies to bless marriages, births, and possibly funerals. In one tale, Thor once killed and ate his goats, then brought them back to life by hallowing their bones with his hammer.

Sources say that the site, which is in the Þjórsárdalur valley in south Iceland, was once a Viking farmstead.

Archaeologists also found a buckle and burnt human remains at the site, according to Iceland Review.

Local resident Bergur Þór Björnsson made the incredible find.

His great grandfather had discovered 20 Viking era farms in the 1920s.

'I just thought it was quite far between the ruins here and started to search just for fun,' he said.

The items have not been dated but experts believe they are from the first centuries of settlement in Ireland.

They have been sent to Reykjavík for further research.

Thousands of tiny intricate amulets, similar to this necklace, have been found all over the Viking world since the first millennium CE.

For years, researchers have been unsure whether the amulets were a representation of Thor's hammer or something else entirely.

In Norse mythology, Mjölnir (pronounced roughly 'miol-neer') is the name given to the hammer of Thor, a major Norse god associated with thunder.

Mjölnir (pronounced roughly 'miol-neer') is the name given to the hammer of Thor, a major Norse god associated with thunder. The hammer is described in Norse mythology as one of the most powerful weapons, capable of levelling mountains

Pictured is the Viking-era buckle. Local resident Bergur Þór Björnsson made the incredible find. His great grandfather had discovered 20 Viking era farms in the 1920s

The hammer is described in Norse mythology as one of the most powerful weapons, capable of levelling mountains.

It was used by Thor to guard Asgard, the celestial stronghold of the Aesir, the main tribe of gods and goddesses in Norse mythology.

As well as being a weapon, legend has it that Thor's hammer also occupied a key role in religous rituals of cleansing.

It was used in formal ceremonies to bless marriages, births, and possibly funerals.

In one tale, Thor once killed and ate his goats, then brought them back to life by hallowing their bones with his hammer.

The extremely rare lucky charm was discovered at a previously unexplored site alongside a stone used for sharpening blades (pictured)

Pictured is an iron pick found at the site. In Norse mythology, Mjölnir (pronounced roughly 'miol-neer') is the name given to the hammer of Thor, a major Norse god associated with thunder

====== 1624 ========

DO THESE RUINS PROVE THE BIBLICAL STORY OF EXODUS?

Ancient ruins found in the Israeli wilderness could solve the biblical mystery of the Exodus, archaeologists claim.

According to the Bible, Moses liberated the Israelites from slavery in Egypt and led them through the wilderness of Sinai, before they crossed the River Jordan into the promised land of Canaan.

Yet no historical basis for the legend exists, and experts generally agree the Israelites were in fact native to Canaan - an ancient region covering modern day Israel.

However, scientists are now analysing whether ruins near the River Jordan are proof of a nomadic Israelite people crossing into the ancient land thousands of years ago.

They suggest the small settlement was used by the Israelites during their journey from Egypt, which biblical researchers believe occurred in the 13th Century BC.

If correct, the find would constitute the first scientific evidence of the biblical account.

But some scepticism remains around the legitimacy of the research.

The site has yet to be dated, meaning it could have been built thousands of years after the proposed crossing.

Thousands of nomadic groups have built settlements across Israel over the past 2,000 years, making it extremely unlikely the newly found site was built by a crowd linked to Moses.

Archaeologists behind the find admit it does not prove the Israelites made the crossing, adding that further research was needed in order to draw this conclusion.

An ancient settlement (pictured) found in the Israeli wilderness could solve the biblical mystery of the Exodus

THE STORY OF EXODUS The Book of Exodus is the second book of the Torah and the Hebrew Bible (the Old Testament). It describes how the Israelites were enslaved by the leaders of Egypt, eventually decreeing that all Hebrew boys must be killed at birth by drowning in the River Nile. The Israelites are eventually rescued by Moses, who was given a message by God to return the group to the ancient land of Canaan. Moses confronts the Pharaoh and leads the Israelites in a daring escape. The Israelites complain that Moses has taken them to die in the wilderness, and Moses, at God’s bidding, parts the sea for the people to cross. Pharaoh follows and Moses closes the waters back again, drowning the Egyptian army. The Israelites eventually make it to Canaan, an area of land that covers modern day Israel.

'We have not proved that these camps are from the period of the early Israelites, but it is possible,' said David Ben-Shlomo, an archaeologist with Ariel University.

'If they are, this might fit the biblical story of the Israelites coming from east of the Jordan River, then crossing the Jordan and entering into the hill country of Israel later.'

Archaeologists are now analysing whether the ruins, named Khirbet el Mastarah, are consistent with a newly-arrived nomadic people.

Researchers believe that pottery shard are from the early Iron Age, around the time traditionally associated with the Israelite arrival, though they claim they were unable to date them scientifically.

While the ruins themselves, a number of low walls, are believed to be rudimentary stone fencing for animals - consistent with known nomadic practices.

According to Dr Ben-Shlomo and his American dig partner, Ralph Hawkins of Averett University, this could explain why pottery shards at the site were found outside - not inside - the stone walls.

'The floors of the structures were virtually empty of finds, and thus, we could not date them by conventional archaeological methods,' they said.

According to the Bible, Moses liberated the Israelites from slavery in Egypt and led them through the wilderness of Sinai, before they crossed the River Jordan into the promised land of Canaan (artist's impression)

'In Bedouin settlements, people live in tents made of perishables which are relocated every season, thus artefacts would not be associated with stone architecture.

'So the structures might have housed animals, rather than people, who lived in tents around them.'

The site, five miles north of Jericho, also makes more sense as a nomadic settlement than a permanent one.

Temperatures there can easily reach a searing 45C and annual rainfall is as little as 1cm.

Experts are now analysing whether ruins (pictured) near the River Jordan are proof of a nomadic Israelite people crossing into the ancient land from outside

While the archaeological site is located in an area the Israelites could have passed through, researchers were unable to date the ruins, meaning they may have been built thousands of years after the Biblical story is set

'The landscape is arid most of the time and even in modern times most of the population here are Bedouins,' said Dr Ben-Shlomo.

Furthermore, the site is isolated and is shielded from view by the surrounding hills - perhaps implying a new population in fear of a hostile reception.

Now the archaeologists are working to confirm whether site is as old as they suspect.

Dr Ben-Shlomo said: 'Sites like Khirbet el Mastarah and other similar ones in the Jordan Valley seem - at least from survey material - to appear suddenly during the Iron Age.

'Since this area is not densely populated in many periods, this might indicate a new phenomenon like nomads suddenly creating settlements, or a new population.'

This artist's impression depicts the Israelites crossing the River Jordan. The first ever evidence of the biblical story of Exodus may have been found, after ruins consistent with a nomadic people were found near the river

Samples from beneath the walls will be tested for a build-up of electrons, which get trapped over the years and are only released by light radiation, so they could reveal the age of the structure

Soil samples from Khirbet el Mastarah have now been sent for analysis.

Samples from beneath the walls will be tested for a build-up of electrons, which get trapped over the years and are only released by light radiation, so they could reveal the age of the structure.

While samples from between the walls will be tested for elevated levels of phosphorus, which would be consistent with animal dung accruing in them.

Results are expected in a few months.

The archaeologists are also planning to excavate nearby Uja el-Foqa to determine whether it might be linked to Israelite settlement of the region.

However the work is not without its challenges - archaeologists must look for cultural clues that the site was indeed Israelite.

Samples from between the walls will be tested for elevated levels of phosphorus, which would be consistent with animal dung accruing in them

This image shows an artist's impression of the Israelites enslaved in Egypt. According to the Bible, the nomads were led by Moses in a daring escape around 5,000 years ago

'It is difficult since many aspects of the material culture of different groups (say those from east or west of the Jordan River) may be too similar or not indicative enough,' said Dr Ben-Shlomo.

The Exodus story is spread over the biblical books of Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers and Deuteronomy.

It begins with the Israelites enslaved in Egypt, before the Pharaoh - coerced by 10 terrible plagues - agrees to release them and Moses leads them across the miraculously-parted Red Sea.

Once they reached the Sinai Peninsula, scripture says they travelled to Mount Sinai, where Moses received the 10 commandments.

They then headed to the southern border of Canaan, but being too scared to enter, were condemned to 38 years in the wilderness by god.

After passing the years at the oasis of Kadesh Barnea, the Israelites then travelled to the eastern border of Canaan, where Moses died and was buried on Mount Nebo.

In the subsequent Book of Joshua, Joshua takes over leadership of the Israelites, leading them into the promised land across the River Jordan and conquering Jericho.

====== 1625 ========

WORLD'S FIRST FLYING CARS SET TO GO ON THE MARKET WITH PRE-SALES NEXT MONTH

The world's first flying car is set to go on the market with pre-sales scheduled to begin next month.

The first of the two-seat hybrid-electric vehicles, which can switch between driving and flying modes in less than a minute, will be delivered to customers next year.

According to manufacturer Terrafugia, which belongs to the parent company of Volvo, the Transition can fly up to 400 miles (640km) at top speeds of 100mph (160kmh).

The price has not yet been determined but preliminary sales for the first of the pioneering models will begin in October, according to China's news agency Xinhua.

According to manufacturer Terrafugia, which belongs to Volvo, the Transition can fly up to 400 miles at top speeds of 100 mph. Pictured: a test flight of the Transition

Recent improvements to the vehicle have included a hybrid-electric motor, upgraded seats, more luggage storage, improved seat belts and airbags, the company said.

The vehicle has also been fitted with rear-view cameras and a new parachute system, as well as 'boost' mode, which gives 'a brief burst of extra power while flying'.

It was certified as a Light Sport Aircraft by the Federal Aviation Administration in 2016.

The vehicle also meets National Highway and Traffic Safety Administration standards but consumers will need a pilot's license to operate the Transition.

The company believes Transition could be a useful vehicle for pilots to land at small airports and drive straight home.

The aircraft has fold-out wings, weighing roughly 1,300 pounds, and has fixed landing gear. It can fly to a maximum altitude of 10,000 feet.

The Transition on land. The first of the two-seat hybrid-electric vehicles, which can switch between driving and flying modes in less than a minute, will be delivered next year

The TF-X, a planned four-person follow-up, will be computer-controlled so that passengers can type in a destination before taking off.

'The TF-X won't require an airport for takeoff and landing, and it will drive on all roads and highways - providing the convenience of true door-to-door transportation,' the company said.

The company's CEO Chris Jaran said in July: 'Developing this new technology has allowed us to test several different mechanisms and generate process improvements along the way.

'We are at the critical point where we can implement the best design features based on years of flight and drive testing.

'This will improve function, safety and aesthetics for the optimal flying and driving experience.'

An artist's rendering of the vehicle on road. The vehicle also meets National Highway and Traffic Safety Administration standards but consumers will need a pilot's license to operate it

====== 1626 ========

FIVE KOALAS ARRIVE AT A BRITISH SAFARI PARK AFTER FLYING 10,000 MILES FROM AUSTRALIA

Five southern koalas have arrived at their new home in Wiltshire after flying 10,000 miles from Australia.

The iconic marsupials travelled from Cleland Wildlife Park near Adelaide to Longleat safari park in a bid to protect their species.

Conservation experts hope the koalas will act as ambassadors for the species in Europe.

They form part of an international effort to preserve the species by spreading small groups to parks and zoos across the globe.

Koala numbers have dropped nearly 80 per cent in some regions of Australia over the past two decades.

The fall is due in part to a deadly chlamydia epidemic that has ravaged the species, infecting 100 per cent of some wild populations.

Scroll down for video

Five southern koalas have arrived at their new home in Wiltshire after flying 10,000 miles from Australia. Pictured is one of the koalas at the new enclosure at Longleat safari park

Pictured is Longleat koala keeper Chris Burr with one of the park's new arrivals

Graeme Dick, of Longleat, said: 'We're delighted to announce the arrival of the koalas and wombats here at Longleat.

'All appear in excellent health and are settling in well.

'This is the culmination of a two-year project and the beginning of an exciting new era.

'We hope these animals will act as conservation ambassadors for the species, and promote conservation and education about Australian marsupials.'

The group were special guests on a Singapore Airlines Cargo aircraft, accompanied by keepers and a veterinary team.

After touching down at Heathrow on Thursday night, the koalas were picked up from the runway and transported to Longleat.

Longleat staff have been training in koala care in Australia. Conservation experts hope the koalas will act as ambassadors for the species in Europe

The koalas form part of an international effort to preserve the species by spreading small groups to parks and zoos across the globe. This image shows one of the koalas at the new enclosure in Longleat

Pictured are two of the marsupials at the Koala enclosure at Cleland Wildlife Park in Adelaide

They were given a full health check on arrival and declared fit and well.

The arrival of the koalas is part of an initiative by the Government of South Australia to enhance the management and conservation of the koala.

The project will enable conservation research that will help to protect the koala population in South Australia.

Southern koalas, which have thicker fur and can weigh twice as much as northern koalas, are not an endangered species but are considered to be vulnerable.

Bill Muirhead, agent general of the Government of South Australia, said: 'We are thrilled to welcome our South Australian ambassador animals to the UK, these creatures are an integral part of helping us spread the native conservation message.

South Australia Minister for Environment and Water David Speirs (left) and Cleland Director Chris Daniels are seen with Bel, a 13-year-old Koala, at the Koala enclosure at Cleland Wildlife Park in Adelaide

Pictured is one of the iconic marsupials at Cleland Wildlife Park near Adelaide, where they travelled from this week

'The arrival of the first Southern koalas in Europe is now a milestone in the fight to protect the koala population in South Australia from becoming endangered.'

Longleat will act as a European hub for the newly-created International Koala Centre of Excellence.

The koalas will now spend around six months away from visitors to the part as they settle into their new home.

The koalas will now spend around six months away from visitors to the part as they settle into their new home

They will live alongside a pair of southern hairy nosed wombats, which are the koalas closest relatives.

Their enclosure, named Koala Creek, includes a natural stream, eucalyptus trees, climbing poles, naturally-themed indoor and outdoor habitats and a koala care unit.

The purpose built facility will be open to visitors from Spring 2019.

Chris Daniels, director of Cleland Wildlife Park, said: 'We have been working closely with the team at Longleat to ensure the koalas and wombats receive the very best care and attention when they settle in.

Their enclosure, named Koala Creek (pictured), includes a natural stream, eucalyptus trees, climbing poles, naturally-themed indoor and outdoor habitats and a koala care unit. The purpose built facility will be open to visitors from Spring 2019

'The new facility is fantastic and has been specifically designed with these animals in mind. Their arrival in the UK is a very exciting moment and will undoubtedly help raise awareness of these unique animals.'

Sheldon Hee, general manager of Singapore Airlines UK and Ireland said the airline fully supported the conservation programme.

'We have been delighted to work closely with the team at Longleat to plan the animals' journey and ensure they received the very best of care; including, mostly, lots of eucalyptus,' Mr Hee said.

The koala was listed as vulnerable to extinction in some parts of Australia in 2012.

A koala is checked over by a vet before departure to the UK. Southern koalas, which have thicker fur and can weigh twice as much as northern koalas, are not an endangered species but are considered to be vulnerable

====== 1627 ========

PORTRAIT PAINTED BY AN AI SELLS FOR $432,000 AT CHRISTIE'S IN NEW YORK

Christie's has sold a portrait painted by an AI for an eye watering $432,500.

The AI-generated 'Portrait of Edmond Belamy' depicts a slightly blurry, chubby man in a dark frock-coat and white collar.

Christie's said the winning bidder wanted to remain anonymous, but confirmed the price skyrocketed after a five way bidding battle on the phones and via ChristiesLive.

Scroll down for video

Pierre Fautrel, a member of the French art collective Obvious, poses in front of 'Portrait d'Edmond Belamy,' an image created using Artificial Intelligence

'Behold the future—here it is,' the auctioneer declared before the bidding started on the piece.

The artwork is one of a group of portraits of the fictional Belamy family created by a Paris-based trio of 25-year-olds known as Obvious.

According to an online catalog on Christie's website, the painting had been estimated to go for $7,000-$10,000.

The art work features a fictional person named Edmond de Belamy, described by Christie's as a 'portly gentleman, possibly French and — to judge by his dark frockcoat and plain white collar — a man of the church.'

The signature on the painting is the actual algorithm used to create it.

His off-centre position leaves enough white space to show the artist's signature as 'min max Ex[log(D(x))] + Ez[log(1-D(G(z)))].

To make the painting, artist Pierre Fautrel and his team ran 15,000 classic portraits through a computer software.

In the right hand corner, the portrait is 'signed' with the mathematical formula used to create it

Once the software 'understood the rules of portraiture,' using a new algorithm developed by Google researcher Ian Goodfellow, it then generated a series of new images by itself, Fautrel said.

The French collective selected 11, calling them the 'Belamy family,' one of which on Thursday fetched $432,500 at Christie's in New York, the epicenter of the traditional art market.

The price smashed its pre-sale estimates of $7,000 to $10,000. Christie's said the work was snapped up by an anonymous telephone bidder after a five-way battle on the phone, online and one would-be buyer in the room.

But is it art? Fautrel, 25, insists that it is.

'Even if the algorithm creates the image,' he told AFP 'we are the people who decided to do this, who decided to print it on canvas, sign it as a mathematical formula, put it in a gold frame.'

He compared AI art to early photography of the 1850s, which he says critics rubbished at the time as 'not being art and which would destroy artists.'

Richard Lloyd, international head of prints and multiples at Christie's, persuaded the collective to put the print up for sale in order to foster a debate about artificial intelligence in art.

'I know it's a debate that's going on quite widely, I thought that in a way this marked a watershed -- or slightly a tipping point,' he told AFP.

Leaving aside the art debate, there are legal questions. Is the collective or the algorithm the artist? What are the copyright issues?

The artwork is one of a group of portraits of the fictional Belamy family created by a Paris-based trio of 25-year-olds. Pictured is 'La Comtesse de Belamy' (2018), created by the Generative Adversarial Network (GAN)

For Lloyd, this is just the beginning of AI art.

'This is developing incredibly fast. Only in five or 10 years we will look back on this and it will look very different,' he told AFP.

'Artists who are great adopters of technology, they will seize AI,' he predicted. 'Artists will use it to generate images which they will then modify ... It will be quite seamless.'

There is also a benefit to the client.

'It gives you privilege that only very wealthy people in previous centuries had -- to commission works of art painted just for you,' Lloyd said.

The AI features a 'Generator' which makes a new image, and a 'Discriminator' which attempts to tell which images were made by man or the algorithm.

'The aim is to fool the discriminator into thinking that the new images are real-life portraits. Then we have a result,' said Caselles-Dupré in a statement

A painting created by an algorithm will be sold at Christie's in New York, marking the first time ever that a work of art by an artificial intelligence has been auctioned. Pictured is the artwork, which is titled the Portrait of Edmond Belamy

'We see this as a new branch of art, in the same way as photography was in the 1800s.

'We're a new generation of creatives but we certainly won't replace other innovative artists.'

The three men live together in a flat in Paris and met at university, where Pierre Fautrel and Mr Vernier studied business, and their colleague Hugo Caselle-Dupre studied technology.

Christie's said the winning bidder wanted to remain anonymous, but confirmed the price skyrocketed after 'a bidding battle on the phones and via ChristiesLive'.

They have so far created 11 portraits—and their work has been championed by Nicholas Laugero Lasserre, a celebrated art professor notorious for his collection of urban art by the likes of Banksy, Invader and Shepard Fairey. Pictured is 'La Comtesse de Belamy'

They added that the end products are unique due to a 'very important' randomisation feature in the coding.

They have so far created 11 portraits—and their work has been championed by Nicholas Laugero Lasserre, a celebrated art professor notorious for his collection of urban art by the likes of Banksy, Invader and Shepard Fairey.

In February he bought his first piece of art from Obvious, shelling out £9000 (10,000 euros) for a piece which now hangs in the Paris art gallery Art 42.

They have credited him with having helped grow their popularity.

The portrait is on view at Christie's in London and has an estimate of £5,400-7,700 ($7,000-10,000).

HOW DOES ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE LEARN? AI systems rely on artificial neural networks (ANNs), which try to simulate the way the brain works in order to learn. ANNs can be trained to recognise patterns in information - including speech, text data, or visual images - and are the basis for a large number of the developments in AI over recent years. Conventional AI uses input to 'teach' an algorithm about a particular subject by feeding it massive amounts of information. AI systems rely on artificial neural networks (ANNs), which try to simulate the way the brain works in order to learn. ANNs can be trained to recognise patterns in information - including speech, text data, or visual images Practical applications include Google's language translation services, Facebook's facial recognition software and Snapchat's image altering live filters. The process of inputting this data can be extremely time consuming, and is limited to one type of knowledge. A new breed of ANNs called Adversarial Neural Networks pits the wits of two AI bots against each other, which allows them to learn from each other. This approach is designed to speed up the process of learning, as well as refining the output created by AI systems.

Mr Fautrel said: 'At the beginning a lot of people were like: 'Who are these guys? What are they doing?' But now we are considered true artists.'

They admit they were shocked when a representative from Christie's rang and said they want to sell the portrait, in what the auction house says 'will signal the arrival of AI art on the world auction stage.'

Lindsay Griffith, managing the sale for Christie's, said they were 'interested in opening the dialogue about new technology and its impact on the creation of art and its market.

'At the moment, managing those tools requires rare skills and expensive technology,' she said. 'But we can imagine that tomorrow these tools will be widely spread across the population.'

====== 1628 ========

ASTEROID WITH A SKULL FACE MAKES A COME BACK TO ZIP PASSED EARTH JUST AFTER HALLOWEEN

A 'death comet' will be zipping passed earth just after Halloween this year.

The asteroid with a skull-like face will make its second trip near earth in three years after flying a worrisome 302,000 miles from our planet on October 31, 2015.

This year, the comet will be a much more comfortable 24million miles away on November 11, Mother Nature Network reported.

The comet, officially recognized as 2015 TB145, has a few nicknames including 'Halloween asteroid', 'death comet' and 'The Great Pumpkin' by NASA.

A 'death comet' with a skull face will pass earth November 11 about 24million miles away

A chart form 2015 shows the comets last visit on Halloween 2015 about 302,000 miles away from earth

The 2000-foot-wide rock gets the name 'death comet' not only because of its human skull face, but because it's believed to have been long-dead.

Numerous passes around the sun likely stripped the comet of its volatiles, according to Mother Nature Network.

'We found that the object reflects about 6 percent of the light it receives from the sun,' said Vishnu Reddy, a research scientist at the Planetary Science Institute in Tucson, Arizona said in 2015.

'That is similar to fresh asphalt, and while here on Earth we think that is pretty dark, it is brighter than a typical comet which reflects only 3 to 5 percent of the light. That suggests it could be cometary in origin — but as there is no coma evident, the conclusion is it is a dead comet,' Reddy said.

The Green Bank Telescope in West Virginia captured the asteroid in the early morning hours of Halloween 2015 during a different period in its rotation.

The 2015 flyby was the closest the eerie comet has come to earth.

In this lifetime, the comet's next closest visit will occur on November 1, 2088, at an even more comfortable distance of just over 5 million miles from earth.

====== 1629 ========

HEARTBREAKING IMAGES REVEAL THE 'HORRIFYING' INJURIES THAT PLASTIC WASTE INFLICTS ON BRITAIN'S SEALS

Heartbreaking images reveal the toll that Britain's plastic waste crisis is having on its seals.

Pictures show animals with plastic rings around their necks, some of which cut inches deep into their blubber, hindering the creatures' ability to move and hunt.

The RSPCA has warned that the number of seals with 'horrifying' injuries caused by plastic waste each year is at its worst in a decade.

Items causing such injuries - and even death - include fishing nets or pieces of plastic waste which are plighting areas of the coast, including Horsey beach in Norfolk.

Horsey is known for its vibrant seal population and is a popular spot for British seal tourism, with more than 1,600 pups born there last year.

Scroll down for video

Pictured is a seal at Horsey beach in Norfolk with a plastic ring caught around its neck. It is one of several heartbreaking images that reveal the toll Britain's plastic waste crisis is having on its wildlife

Alison Charles, manager of the RSPCA's East Winch Wildlife Centre, Norfolk, said man made items left in the water or on beaches are killing seals every day.

'Seals are inquisitive, so they get caught in nets from fishing trawlers and the single nylon lines used in mackerel fishing, and frisbees - just all the rubbish that's out there,' he said.

'These poor animals are getting stuck and suffer horrendous and often terrible disgusting slow deaths.

'They cannot extend their neck, so they cannot fish. It is absolutely horrifying.'

The RSPCA has previously rescued and treated between two and four seals each year, and none at all before 2008.

But within the last year 10 seals have been rescued with plastic and metal rings around their necks, as well at rope and plastic nylon netting that they have become tangled in.

Pictures show animals with plastic rings around their necks that sometimes cut inches deep into their blubber, hindering the creatures' ability to move and hunt

The RSPCA has warned that the number of seals with 'horrifying' injuries caused by plastic waste each year is at its worst in a decade

Items causing such injuries - and even death - include fishing nets or pieces of plastic waste which are plighting areas of the coast, including Horsey beach in Norfolk

'It is never natural items, it is always plastic or metal or other things that should not be in the water,' Ms Charles said.

Pictured is a seal rescued at Horsey beach that was caught in a plastic fishing net

'I've even seen a seal with a bikini around its neck. As they get larger and larger, it cuts through the skin and they get an infection.'

The Friends of Horsey Seals charity monitors seals along the Norfolk coast and described the situation as 'just horrendous'.

Ms Charles added that neither the RSPCA or Friends of Horsey were sure of the scale of injured seals on the Norfolk coast but that the numbers are growing each year.

Friends of Horsey volunteer David Wyse said it is extremely difficult to rescue female seals that are being strangled by frisbees.

In order to help any of the seals, they need to be isolated and weakened by infection before they can be captured.

Mr Wyse said: 'The problem is that the females are about to give birth and any serious disturbance to the group could result in miscarriages.'

Once any of the seals are captured they are treated with antibiotics over several months, before being released.

However, the RSPCA this year had to put down a baby seal when its nose was severed by a nylon fishing line.

Ms Charles said: 'It had cut so deep, when I removed the ring I thought I had decapitated her.'

'I felt sick. It was brilliant when Blue Planet raised the issue of rubbish in our oceans - we had been saying it for years.'

Earlier this year the RSPCA released a seal known as 'Frisbee' back into the sea after she successfully recovered from life-threatening neck injuries that cut deep into her neck

Alison Charles, manager of the RSPCA's East Winch Wildlife Centre, Norfolk, said man made items left in the water or on beaches are killing seals every day

====== 1630 ========

LOST TREASURES OF THE DANUBE INCLUDING 16TH CENTURY DAGGERS ARE REVEALED

Unique weapons and coins from the 16th and 17th centuries have been found on the banks of the Danube river.

The finds – which have been revealed thanks to exceptionally low water levels – are believed to be cargo of an unknown commercial ship that probably sank in the 18th century.

Included in the finds are rare coins that can be traced back to Pope Clement XII and Louis XIV.

Iron objects such as ship parts, daggers and cannonballs have also been found at the site which is near Erd, around 16 miles (25km) from Budapest.

Scroll down for video

Unique weapons and coins from the 16th and 17th centuries have been found on the banks of the Danube river. Included in the finds are rare coins (pictured) that can be traced back to Pope Clement XII and Louis XIV

Researchers from the Ferenczy Museum Centre from Szentendre have found the sensational treasures in the past few days, writes Hungary Today.

Gábor Gulyás, director of the Ferenczy Museum, said that an amateur archaeologist first uncovered the treasures, which includes gold coins and ancient weapons.

Experts believe a ship sank in the area and are now looking for clues to find out when it could have gone under.

One of the 2000 coins found so far dates back to 1743, from the age of Maria Theresa, the only female head of the Habsburg Dynasty.

Another 22-carat Hungarian gold coin from the 17th and 18th century was also dug up.

The findings will be shown in an exhibition sometime after 2020, experts say.

The water level is exceptionally low at the moment revealing incredibly rare treasures from the cargo of an unknown ship that probably sank in the 18th century

Researchers from the Ferenczy Museum Centre from Szentendre have found the sensational treasures in the past few days

One of the 2000 coins found so far dates back to 1743, from the age of Maria Theresa. Another 22-carat Hungarian gold coin from the 17th and 18th century was also dug up

Many objects have been found at the site which is near Erd, around 16 miles (25km) from Budapest

Hungary has been struggling with rivers drying up for months.

In August, the Danube receded to 0.61 metres, just above the record low of 0.51 meters recorded in 2003, the National Water Authority said in a statement.

Gabor Spanyik, chief executive of MAHART Passnave, a majority state-owned Hungarian shipping company, said vessels that have sinkage over 1.6 meters had to stop at the city of Komarom in the northeast, as they could not sail to Budapest.

He said authorities banned shipping overnight between 8 p.m. and 5 a.m. for large passenger ships and barges, in order to limit the risks of vessels running aground.

Gábor Gulyás, director of the Ferenczy Museum, said that an amateur archaeologist first uncovered the treasures, which includes gold coins and ancient weapons

Experts believe a ship sank in the area, and are looking for clues to find out when it could have gone under

In Budapest in August the Danube receded to 0.61 metres, just above the record low of 0.51 meters recorded in 2003, the National Water Authority said in a statement

Pictured is a Hungarian archaeologist inspecting coins from the 16th-17th centuries

'We hope that ... in four to five days there will be rains in Austria and Germany ... and this could raise water levels by 0.5-0.6 metres in Budapest and the Hungarian section of the river,' Mr Spanyik said.

He also said MAHART Passnave had lost close to 100 million forints ($355,000) in profits due to the shipping difficulties, as sailing limitations affected 50 to 60 of its vessels.

Mr Spanyik also said some large international passenger cruise ships had been stranded in Budapest for two weeks.

The Rhine is an important shipping route for commodities including grains, minerals, coal and oil products including heating oil.

The Danube is a major route for east European grain exports to west Europe.

====== 1631 ========

ISS ASTRONAUT CAPTURES STUNNING SHOTS FROM SPACE

While sunrises on Earth can be impressive, from orbit, they take on a whole new dimension.

These incredible images, taken by European Space Agency astronaut Alexander Gerst are the lateast in a stunning series of images he has taken from the ISS.

However, these are the images that rendered him speechless.

'I don't know any words, in any language, to match the beauty of an orbital sunrise' he said after witnessing the incredible scene.

Last most he captured amazing images of a super typhoon.

'As if somebody pulled the planet's gigantic plug,' he wrote.

'Staring down the eye of yet another fierce storm. Category 5 Super Typhoon Trami is unstoppable and heading for Japan and Taiwan. Be safe down there!'

Gerst attained the unique perspective from 250 miles above the surface, aboard the orbiting International Space Station.

The stunning photo offers a glimpse into the views seen only by the astronauts on the ISS.

Gerst is currently leading the Horizons mission on the ISS, in his second stint at the orbiting lab.

====== 1632 ========

THE CELLPHONE YOU HAVE TO BUILD: $89 KIT LETS YOU MAKE YOUR OWN MOBILE HANDSET

If you've ever wondered what's really inside your mobile phone, a new DIY kit could help you out.

Called MakerPhone, the $89 kit gives you everything you need to make a mobile.

While the resulting handset might not be as advanced as the latest from apple and Google, it is s fully functioning phone - complete with a Space Invaders game.

Scroll down for video

The Croatian firm behind the Kickstarter kit says its should take about seven hours to build from start to finish

WHAT YOU GET The parts list includes: 1.8-inch, 128 x 160 resolution color LCD display Main circuit board sound module with dedicated 10-bit DAC and electronic volume controller, RGB LEDs laser-cut acrylic housing GSM module, microcomputer with integrated Wi-Fi and Bluetooth and 4 MB of built-in flash memory 128 MB SD card containing apps 600 mAh Li-Pol battery

Croatian tech startup CircuitMess using Kickstarter to fund the project, and says the phone is perfect for anyone over the age of 11.

'With MakerPhone we’re trying to show people that every machine you see was designed by a human being not different nor smarter than themselves,' the firm says.

Although build time will vary according to skill levels, CircuitMess says that the phone should take about seven hours to build.

'MakerPhone will take you from learning how to wield a soldering iron through assembling your very own fully functional mobile phone all the way to coding your very own app or game for your very own DIY mobile phone.'

Purchasers will get all the parts and tutorials they need.

They will have to supply their own soldering iron, pliers and a screwdriver - although they will be taught how to solder.

They will also learn how to code, using Scratch, MicroPython and Arduino IDE (which is based on C/C++).

The kit also comes supplied with a 128 MB SD card containing apps, tools and games.

However, the resulting phone doesn't have a touchscreen, instead using a physical numeric keypad, along with a 4-way mechanical joystick and multi-purpose addressable buttons.

Although build time will vary according to skill levels, CircuitMess says that the phone should take about seven hours to build.

The project's Kickstarter campaign has already met its funding goal of US$15,000, and the firm plans to start shipping in March next year.

Despite the lack of a touchscreen, users will be able to make calls, send texts, play basic games like Snake or Pong and listen to music.

The kit will also teach them how to write their own apps.

The phone doesn't have a touchscreen, instead using a physical numeric keypad, along with a 4-way mechanical joystick and multi-purpose addressable buttons

The project's Kickstarter campaign has already met its funding goal of US$15,000, and the firm plans to start shipping in March next year.

Pledges start at $89, and for $119 CircuitMess includes the tools necessary to build the MakerPhone.

====== 1633 ========

THE $150,000 HOVERBIKE: 'SCORPION' QUADCOPTER CRAFT AVAILABLE FOR PREORDER

It may look horribly dangerous, and fly for less than half an hour a time, but Russian firm Hoversurf has revealed preorders for its Scorpion hoverbike are now open.

The craft, which has already been sold to the Dubai Police force, has been redesigned with a new battery and carbon fiber frame.

It will fly 16 feet (5m) above the ground, reaching a top speed of 60mph (96 km) - although this will be limited to the legal speed in each country.

Scroll down for video

The Russian built craft, which has already been sold to the Dubai Police force, has been redesigned with a new battery and carbon fiber frame.

SCORPION SPECS Carbon fiber frame Four quadcopter blade Will fly 16 feet (5m) above the ground Top speed of 60mph (96 km) Flight time of 10- 25 minutes depending on weather and weight Remote-controlled drone mode offers up to 40 minutes flight time

The craft has also been updated with a hybrid lithium-manganese-nickel battery, which has a flight time of between 10 and 25 minutes depending on the weather and pilot weight.

There is also a remote-controlled drone mode that reportedly offers up to 40 minutes flight time.

'The dimensions of the hoverbike allow it to be rolled in a standard doorway while also having ability to take-off and land from an ordinary parking space,' the firm says.

Buyers can preorder a Hoverbike S3 2019 with a US$10,000 deposit, and the full price is set at $150,000, and deliveries are slated to take place within two to six months from your time of reservation.

'The weight of the hoverbike is 114 kg (253 pounds) limited by law, but by reducing the weight of the frame it allowed us to install a more capacious battery,' the firm said.

Buyers can preorder a Hoverbike S3 2019 with a US$10,000 deposit, and the full price is set at $150,000, and deliveries are slated to take place within two to six months from your time of reservation

The craft can take-off and land from an ordinary parking space

'Our safe flight altitude is 5 meters above the ground (16 feet), but the pilot himself can adjust the limit to their comfortability.'

The craft recently passing the US Federal Aviation Administration requirements to be classified as a legal ultralight vehicle, allowing the hoverbike to be operable with no pilot's license.

====== 1634 ========

AN ICE AGE IN 120 SECONDS: TIMELAPSE REVEALS HOW THE ALPS CHANGED OVER 115,000 YEARS

Scientists have simulated the dramatic changes that took place in the Alps after the onset of Earth’s last glacial period, which began to transform the landscape 115,000 years ago.

During this time, glaciers advanced and retreated throughout the region, caving out valleys and leaving behind boulders and foothills.

The hypnotic simulation made using the Piz Daint supercomputer condenses tens of thousands of years to just two minutes, and reveals there may have been much more movement than previously thought.

The new simulation made with the Piz Daint supercomputer shows the dramatic changes that took place in the Alps after the onset of Earth’s last glacial period, which began to transform the landscape 115,000 years ago

The simulation was made by an international team of researchers using the CSCS supercomputer ‘Piz Daint,’ with a model called the Parallel Ice Sheet Model (PISM).

The team used data on mountain and glacier topography, rock properties, heat flow, and climate conditions to simulate ice build-up and glacier spread.

For this, they combined present-day weather data and paleo-climate records based on sediment and ice core samples.

According to the researchers, the simulations suggest the Alps experienced more frequent glaciation, with glaciers that advanced and retreated more than 10 times over the course of the last 120,000 years.

The hypnotic simulation made using the Piz Daint supercomputer condenses tens of thousands of years to just two minutes, and reveals there may have been much more movement than previously thought. During this time, glaciers advanced and retreated throughout the region, caving out valleys and leaving behind boulders and foothills

The team used data on mountain and glacier topography, rock properties, heat flow, and climate conditions to simulate ice build-up and glacier spread. For this, they combined present-day weather data and paleo-climate records based on sediment and ice core samples

It was previously thought the area experienced a minimum of four glaciations. But, in the last few decades, researchers have increasingly supported the idea that this number was much larger.

The simulation shows swathes of ice expanded furthest roughly 25,000 years ago, stretching into the foothills of the Alps, and to Bern, Zurich, and the Lake Constance region.

This ultra-fast reconstruction shows how, over thousands of years, the glaciers advanced to the Swiss Plateau, carved out features such as the Rhône Valley, and deposited massive boulders through the Swiss Plateau, the Alpine valleys, and the Jura mountains.

According to the researchers, the simulations suggest the Alps experienced more frequent glaciation, with glaciers that advanced and retreated more than 10 times over the course of the last 120,000 years

According to the researchers, the ice may also have been thicker than previous estimates have suggested, too. Eventually, the world transitioned to the current interglacial period, as seen in the simulation

HOW IS GLOBAL WARMING AFFECTING GLACIAL RETREAT? Global warming is causing the temperatures all around the world to increase. This is particularly prominent at latitudes nearer the poles. Rising temperatures, permafrost, glaciers and ice sheets are all struggling to stay in tact in the face of the warmer climate. As temperatures have risen to more than a degree above pre-industrial levels, ice continues melt. For example, melting ice on the Greenland ice sheet is producing 'meltwater lakes', which then contribute further to the melting. This positive feedback loop is also found on glaciers atop mountains. Many of these have been frozen since the last ice age and researchers are seeing considerable retreat. Some animal and plant species rely heavily on the cold conditions that the glaciers provide and are migrating to higher altitudes to find suitable habitat. This is putting severe strain on the ecosystems as more animals and more species are living in an ever-shrinking region. On top of the environmental pressure, the lack of ice on mountains is vastly increasing the risks of landslides and volcanic eruptions. The phenomena is found in several mountain ranges around the world. It has also been seen in regions of Antarctica.

Scientists have simulated the dramatic changes that took place in the Alps after the onset of Earth’s last glacial period. File photo

Eventually, the world transitioned to the current interglacial period, as seen in the simulation.

‘By using glacier models like PISM on supercomputers such as Piz Daint, we are able to reconstruct the history of glaciation with an unprecedented level of detail,’ says Julien Seguinot from ETH Zurich's Laboratory of Hydraulics, Hydrology and Glaciology.

According to the researchers, the ice may also have been thicker than previous estimates have suggested, too.

In the upper Rhône Valley, for example, may have been up to 800 meters thicker than thought.

The researchers say simulations such as this will help to improve our understanding of glaciation.

====== 1635 ========

THE TERRIFYING ROBOT SNAKE THAT CAN SCALE LADDERS, SWIM UNDERWATER AND SLITHER DOWN A PIPE

If you think regular snakes are scary, try a robotic serpent that can scale ladders.

Japanese researchers at Kyoto University have unveiled a prototype 'robot snake' that can slither and curl around surfaces and climb just like the real thing.

Rather than just creating it to trigger nightmares, they believe it could one day be used to save lives.

Scroll down for video

WHAT COULD IT BE USED FOR? Kyoto University researchers say the robot snake could be used to enter dangerous situations that are unsafe for humans. It may also be able to rescue humans that are stuck in hard to reach places. They developed an advanced gait for the device that could enable it to crawl through narrow pipes that would otherwise be inaccessible by search and rescue teams. What's more, a version of the device can be used underwater, perhaps to drag people in need of help out of flooded areas.

Research on the device was presented at the International Conference on Intelligence Robots and Systems in Spain last week.

'We proposed a method of designing the target form of a snake robot by combining simple shapes such as straight line, circular arc and helix,' the researchers explain.

'In addition, the target form is realized by approximating the form of a snake robot to the target form.

'With this method, it is possible to intuitively design complicated movements.'

The robot snake is able to climb obstacles and coil around objects because it's made of smooth material that easily slides over surfaces.

It's made up of a series of 36 different 'joints' and links that enable it to bend into different angles.

Researchers refer to these joints, or grooves, as being similar to the pectinate muscles in the heart, which allow it to expand and contract.

It connects to a power supply and can be controlled by a PC, as well as a PlayStation controller.

Scientists even designed a specific gait for the machine that allows it to wrap around a pipe and gradually climb up.

'We designed a gait that climbs over a flange on pipe,' the researchers explained.

'With this method, snake robot can get over the flange by locally lifting the body while helically wrapping around a vertical pipe to prevent slipping down.'

The robot snake is able to climb obstacles and coil around objects because it's made of smooth material that easily slides over surfaces. It's made up of a series of 36 different 'joints'

It's unclear how fast the device is able to move, but it doesn't seem like it's going to be chasing you down the hall or up an elevator anytime soon, like the quadrupedal ANYmal robot

It's unclear how fast the device is able to move, but it doesn't seem like it's going to be chasing you down the hall or up an elevator anytime soon, like the quadrupedal ANYmal robot.

Instead, Kyoto University researchers say it could be used to enter dangerous situations that are unsafe for humans.

It may also be able to rescue humans that are stuck in hard to reach places.

The researchers have also developed an underwater version of the snake robot that could pull someone out of a body of water or a flooded area.

Meanwhile, another 'screwdriver' version is able to wiggle through narrow areas, such as a pipe.

What's more, its shape-shifting capabilities enable it to traverse various types of terrains, making it optimal for search-and-rescue operations.

====== 1636 ========

EX WHITE HOUSE PHOTOGRAPHER PETE SOUZA RELEASES THE FIRST PICTURES TAKEN USING APPLE'S IPHONE XS

Apple new iPhone Xs goes on sale on Friday, boasting a new big screen version called the XS Max, and a much improved camera system.

Former White House Photographer Pete Souza has released the first images taken using the new phone, showing off its new camera capabilities.

He took these shots exclusively for Dailymail.com around Washington DC, and any editing was done on the phone using Apple's tools.

'Smart phones have turned everyone into a photographer but they haven’t necessarily turned everyone into a “good” photographer,' he told Dailymail.com

'At the same time, the smart phone has also turned everyone into a visual journalist giving us at times an eyewitness account from breaking news events.'

Souza, who was the Chief Official White House photographer for U.S. Presidents Ronald Reagan and Barack Obama, and the former director of the White House Photography Office, recently said he has taken approximately two million pictures of President Barack Obama.

He captured the Commander-in-Chief in all situations - whether it is relaxing with his family or sitting in the situation room, waiting to hear the outcome of the May 2011 mission to kill Osama Bin Laden.

His new book, 'SHADE: A Tale of Two Presidents,' is now available for preorder.

====== 1637 ========

NINETEEN MYSTERIOUS BLACK WOODEN STATUES FOUND THAT ARE MORE THAN 800 YEARS OLD

A room full of 800-year-old black wooden statues that stand more than two foot tall (27.5 inches/70 cm) has been found in Peru.

The archaeological gem has been found in the ruins of the UNESCO World Heritage Site Chan Chan.

Some of the figurines are wearing clay masks and all the figurines are tucked into an individual alcove.

The eerie figures line a passageway through to a ceremonial courtyard in the Utzh An complex.

Scroll down for video

A room full of 800-year-old black wooden statues that stand more than two foot tall (27.5 inches/70 cm) and act as 'guardians' has been found in Peru (pictured)

Chan Chan was the largest city in pre-Columbian America and became a World Heritage site in 1986.

It reached its peak around 900 - 1470 and was home to more than 10,000 buildings.

The settlement crumbled after being defeated and absorbed by the Inca Empire.

After his point the city was on a downward trajectory and eventually fell into a state of disrepair and later abandoned.

'In the passageway, recently found in the citadel of Chan Chan, 19 wooden idols covered with clay masks have been found,' Minister of Culture Patricia Balbuena.

The 108-foot (33-metre) passageway lined by the unusual figures represents a distinct phase i the history of the region. according to the team of archaeologists that unearthed the site.

'We assume they are guardians,' archaeologist Henry Gayoso Rullier told Peruvian newspaper El Comercio.

'They could belong to the middle stage of Chan Chan, between 1100 and 1300 CE, and we would be talking about the oldest sculptures known on this site.'

Some of the figurines have masks made of clay (pictured) and all are tucked into a special alcove along the wall

The settlement crumbled after being defeated and absorbed by the Inca Empire. After his point the city was on a downward trajectory and eventually fell into a state of disrepair and later abandoned

Aarchaeologists assumed the statues are guardians and could belong to the middle stage of Chan Chan, between 1100 and 1300. the are also likely the oldest sculptures at the site

A range of artefacts and specimens were found at the site as well as the statues. For example, the outer walls were found to be decorated with an ornate mud mural depicting waves (pictured) and motifs of scrolls and fishing nets

A range of artefacts and specimens were found at the site as well as the statues.

For example, the outer walls were found to be decorated with an ornate mud mural depicting waves and motifs of scrolls and fishing nets.

A promotional video released by the Ministry of Culture in the country shows skeletons and ceramics also undergoing detailed analysis.

Excavation started at the site in June 2017 and is expected to continue until May 2020.

The archaeological gems have been found in the ruins of the UNESCO World Heritage Site Chan Chan (pictured)

====== 1638 ========

T REX DIDN'T HAVE FEATHERS! KING OF THE DINOSAURS HAD SMOOTH SKIN AND TINY ARMS, EXPERTS SAY

The world's most accurate depiction of a Tyrannosaurus Rex ever made has been created, according to researchers.

Artists and palaeontologists joined forces to build a painstaking computer-generated image of the prehistoric beast, from skeleton to skin.

The results are considerably different to all previous renderings, some of which show the king of the dinosaurs with feathers.

Experts now say the fearsome T Rex was actually smooth-skinned.

It comes after a 2017 paper in journal Biology Letters suggested the animal's skin was comprised of a network of small scales, rather than plumage.

They also believe the predator walked with its stomach very low to the ground, with small arms, due to its low centre of gravity.

Scroll down for video

Unlike previous impressions of the Tyrannosaurus Rex, RJ Palmer's shows a complete absence of feathers on the body - complete with small hands and a low centre of gravity

Mr Palmer and his team studied in excess of 20 published papers on the subject matter, including likely detail of the creature's facial features and expressions

Artists and palaeontologists joined forces to build a painstaking computer-generated image of the prehistoric beast, from skeleton to skin

Scientists have previously argued that the terrifying theropod would have featured feathers on its body, but this has now been disputed - and represented visually.

Concept artist RJ Palmer, who's based in San Francisco and oversaw the project, spent 320 hours creating the finished image.

It forms part of the palaeoart exhibit at Mexico Museum of Natural History and Science.

Mr Palmer and his team studied in excess of 20 published papers on the subject, including likely detail of the creature's facial features and expressions.

'The idea was to create the worlds most accurate T Rex,' he told MailOnline.

'So many artists have taken a crack at it but no one has ever taken so much care to get every aspect right. I wanted the world to see T Rex as an animal, not as some movie monster.

'The process was extremely grueling. I spent months trying to figure out the shapes of muscles from paragraphs of text filled with cumbersome anatomical terminology as my only guide.'

Previously, historians thought the terrifying theropod would've featured feathers on its body, but this has now been disputed - and represented visually - for the first time'

However, this allowed him to up update our modern-day vision of the T-Rex by adding keratin plates on the back of the neck, plus extra oral tissue around the mouth.

They also added blunt claws - something which would have resulted from constant impact with the ground.

'[We] worked from the skeleton up, spent months getting the muscles right, and the results are now available for everyone to see,' dinosaur skeleton artist Scott Hartman, who also contributed to the project, told Science Alert.

'The amount of time invested and attention to detail blew me away.

'As with any reconstruction there are of course some details we can't know, and competing interpretations that are equally likely.

'But I can honestly say this was the most exhaustive attempt at restoring an extinct animal that I've worked on.'

====== 1639 ========

'KILONOVA' EXPLOSIONS FLING GOLD, PLATINUM AND URANIUM ACROSS THE UNIVERSE

Vast explosions that throwing out gold, platinum and many of the world's most precious elements could regularly be happening throughout the universe, a NASA study has revealed.

Known as kilonova, they are a luminous flash of radioactive light that produces large quantities of important elements like silver, gold, platinum and uranium.

The immense explosions are caused by neutron stars colliding into each other, sending an intense jet of of high-energy particles through space.

Scroll down for video

The immense explosions are caused by neutron stars colliding into each other, sending an intense jet of of high-energy particles through space. Pictured, an artist's impression of the explosion

The phenomenon was first seen on October 16, 2017, when an international group of astronomers and physicists excitedly reported the first simultaneous detection of light and gravitational waves from the same source - a merger of two neutron stars.

At the time, that discovery was hailed as a 'new chapter in astrophysics'.

The huge explosion rocked the fabric of the universe, distorting spacetime

Now, astronomers have identified a direct relative of that historic event - and say they could be far more common than thought.

'It's a big step to go from one detected object to two,' said study lead author Eleonora Troja, an associate research scientist in the UMD Department of Astronomy with a joint appointment at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center.

The newly described object, named GRB150101B, was reported as a gamma-ray burst localized by NASA's Neil Gehrels Swift Observatory in 2015.

Follow-up observations by NASA's Chandra X-ray Observatory, the Hubble Space Telescope (HST) and the Discovery Channel Telescope (DCT) suggest that GRB150101B shares remarkable similarities with the neutron star merger, named GW170817, discovered by the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave Observatory (LIGO) and observed by multiple light-gathering telescopes in 2017.

A new study suggests that these two separate objects may, in fact, be directly related.

The phenomenon was first seen on October 16, 2017, when an international group of astronomers and physicists excitedly reported the first simultaneous detection of light and gravitational waves from the same source - a merger of two neutron stars.

'Our discovery tells us that events like GW170817 and GRB150101B could represent a whole new class of erupting objects that turn on and off--and might actually be relatively common,' said Troja.

The results were published on October 16, 2018 in the journal Nature Communications.

'We have a case of cosmic look-alikes,' said study co-author Geoffrey Ryan, a postdoctoral researcher in the UMD Department of Astronomy and a fellow of the Joint Space-Science Institute.

Two super-dense neutron stars collided in a stellar fireball dubbed a 'kilonova' 130 million light years from Earth in a discovery that could 'open a new chapter in astrophysics'. This graphic shows the sequence of events that led to the detection of the gravitational waves

'They look the same, act the same and come from similar neighborhoods, so the simplest explanation is that they are from the same family of objects.'

In the cases of both GRB150101B and GW170817, the explosion was likely viewed 'off-axis,' that is, with the jet not pointing directly towards Earth.

So far, these events are the only two off-axis short GRBs that astronomers have identified.

The optical emission from GRB150101B is largely in the blue portion of the spectrum, providing an important clue that this event is another kilonova, as seen in GW170817.

'Every new observation helps us learn better how to identify kilonovae with spectral fingerprints: silver creates a blue color, whereas gold and platinum add a shade of red, for example,' Troja added.

This image provides three different perspectives on GRB150101B, the first known cosmic analogue of GW170817, the gravitational wave event discovered in 2017. At center, an image from the Hubble Space Telescope shows the galaxy where GRB150101B took place. At top right, two X-ray images from NASA's Chandra X-ray observatory show the event as it appeared on January 9, 2015 (left), with a jet visible below and to the left; and a month later, on February 10, 2015 (right), as the jet faded away. The bright X-ray spot is the galaxy's nucleus.

'We've been able identify this kilonova without gravitational wave data, so maybe in the future, we'll even be able to do this without directly observing a gamma-ray burst.'

While there are many commonalities between GRB150101B and GW170817, there are two very important differences.

One is their location: GW170817 is relatively close, at about 130 million light years from Earth, while GRB150101B lies about 1.7 billion light years away.

The second important difference is that, unlike GW170817, gravitational wave data does not exist for GRB150101B.

Without this information, the team cannot calculate the masses of the two objects that merged.

It is possible that the event resulted from the merger of a black hole and a neutron star, rather than two neutron stars.

As neutron stars collide, some of the debris blasts away in particle jets moving at nearly the speed of light, producing a brief burst of gamma rays.

'Surely it's only a matter of time before another event like GW170817 will provide both gravitational wave data and electromagnetic imagery,' said study co-author Alexander Kutyrev, an associate research scientist in the UMD Department of Astronomy with a joint appointment at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center.

If the next such observation reveals a merger between a neutron star and a black hole, that would be truly groundbreaking,' 'Our latest observations give us renewed hope that we'll see such an event before too long.'

====== 1640 ========

CHINA RELEASES PROPAGANDA VIDEO OF ITS 'MOST POWERFUL DRONE BOMBER'

China has released a new propaganda video of its deadly unmanned fighter jet, which shows the aircraft striking still and moving targets.

CH-5, also known as Rainbow-5, was unveiled in 2016 and is said to be China's largest and most powerful drone bomber.

The aircraft can carry 16 missiles and strike targets while flying at an altitude of 6,000 metres (19,685 feet), Chinese media have claimed.

It can fly up to 60 hours without refuelling with a maximum flight altitude of 8,000 metres (26,246 feet) and a maximum range of 10,000 kilometres (6,213 miles).

CH-5, also known as Rainbow-5, is on display during the 11th China International Aviation and Aerospace Exhibition in 2016. A new propaganda video of the warplane has been released

The propaganda film, shared by Chinese state media People's Daily on its social media account, was released ahead of China's largest airshow which will take place from November 6 to 11 in Zhuhai.

CH-5 DRONE BOMBER: WHAT WE KNOW Wingspan: 21 meters (69 feet) Maximum take-off load: 3,300 kilograms (7,275 pounds) Flight time: 60 hours Maximum range: 10,000 kilometres (6,213 miles) Maximum flight altitude: 8,000 metres (26,246 feet) Maximum external load: 1,000 kilograms (2,204 pounds)

The clip includes a recent live-fire drill during which CH-5, billed as an 'air bomb truck', successfully blew up moving targets.

It also shows the footage of the aircraft's flight test in May on the Tibetan Plateau.

During the test, the warplane successfully took off and landed at an airport 3,500 metres (11,482 feet) above sea level.

CH-5 is developed and manufactured by the China Academy of Aerospace Aerodynamics.

It's the latest member of the country's Rainbow Drone Project.

The drone bomber has reported entered a mass-producing stage.

The latest film shows the deadly military drone striking still and moving targets at live-fire drills

The aircraft can carry 16 missiles and strike targets while flying at an altitude of 19,685 feet

The mass-produced model has a wingspan of 21 meters (69 feet) and a maximum external load of 1,000 kilograms (2,204 pounds), said China Central Television Station.

'Because of its external load, its reconnaissance and attacking capabilities has made a qualitative leap compared to the previous models,' Ou Zhongming, the General Director of the Rainbow Drone Project, told China Central Television Station.

The plane's maximum take-off load is 3,300 kilograms (7,275 pounds).

A redundancy system has been fitted into its flight control, which would enable the drone to carry on with its task even if one component breaks down, Mr Ou added.

CH-5 can fly up to 60 hours without refuelling with a maximum altitude of 26,246 feet

CH-5 is said to be China's equivalent to U.S. drone, General Atomics MQ-9 Reaper (pictured)

The CH-5 is also capable of carrying high-definition radar systems which would allow the aircraft to conduct surveys at different altitudes.

When the CH-5 debuted in 2016, Chinese media said it was the country's equivalent to the American military drone, General Atomics MQ-9 Reaper.

CH-5 is said to be twice as big as China's other drone fighter jet CH-4 and can carry 2.5 times more external load than CH-4.

The head engineer, Shi Wen, said in a previous interview with Global Times that CH-5 would be able to fly 120 hours without refuelling in the future.

The original CH-5 made its maiden flight in August 2015 in China's Gansu Province.

====== 1641 ========

VIDEO SHOWS THIEVES STEALING A MODEL S BY HACKING THE KEY FOB (BUT STRUGGLING TO UNPLUG THE CAR)

A Tesla owner has posted remarkable footage of a pair of thieves hacking their way into his $75,00 (£57,000) Model S.

The three-minute surveillance video shows the crooks using a tablet to pick up the signal from the owner's nearby key fob to unlock the vehicle.

Everything seems to go off with a hitch, that is, until the high-tech hackers can't seem to figure out how to unplug the Model S from its charging station.

In all, it only takes the thieves a few minutes to make off with Essex, England resident Antony Kennedy's Model S.

They appear to use a relatively simple hacking method called a relay attack, to intercept the signal from the key fob.

One thief scans the house with his phone to pick up the signal from the key fob.

The whole debacle could have been avoided had the vehicle owner enabled a security feature recently rolled out by Tesla, called PIN to drive, which requires a driver to enter a PIN code that's displayed on the dashboard in order to drive the vehicle. Pictured is a Tesla key fob

Kennedy noted that his keys were located 'at the back of the house.'

Once the key fob signal is picked up, it's then relayed to another device - in this case, a tablet - that's closer to the car door.

It's supposed to mimic the keyless entry process of holding a key fob near a vehicle to unlock it.

More and more carmakers have introduced keyless entry to their cars, but the method isn't without its security risks.

The thieves are able to unlock the car in a matter of seconds after picking up the key fob signal, at which point the Model S lights flash and the car door opens.

Despite their smarts, the crooks waste quite a bit of time figuring out how to remove the charging cable connected to the car's battery.

They fumble around for several minutes before one of the thieves realizes that all they had to do was push a button to undock the car from the cable.

After that, they quickly hop in the car and speed off.

The whole debacle could have been avoided had the vehicle owner enabled a security feature recently rolled out by Tesla.

The crooks seem to have done some research before stealing the vehicle, as they knew to turn off the Model S' remote access feature, which means the owner can't track the vehicle

Called 'PIN to drive,' it requires a driver to enter a PIN code that's displayed on the dashboard in order to drive the vehicle.

However, Kennedy admitted he had forgotten to turn 'PIN to drive' on before the heist.

'@elonmusk My @tesla was stolen this morning, with just a tablet and a phone extending my fob range from the back of the house,' Kennedy wrote in a tweet.

'I get that I should [have] enabled PIN access. I wish it was harder for them to disable remote access though. I can't track it or disable it.'

The crooks seem to have done some research before stealing the vehicle, as they knew to turn off the Model S' remote access feature.

This means that vehicle owner is unable to track the vehicle's whereabouts.

According to Kennedy, Tesla claims that it would have been able to track the vehicle, but the crooks did something else that made it so they cannot see where it went.

How do thieves steal your car without the keys? The hi-tech 'relay' gadget that uses signals to unlock vehicles parked outside homes What is relay theft? Relay theft occurs when two thieves work together to break into cars which have keyless entry systems. The thieves can use equipment to capture signals emitted by certain keys which are used to start new vehicles. One thief stands by the car with a transmitter, while the other stands by the house with another, which picks up the signal from the key which is usually kept near the front door on a table or hook. This is then relayed to the other transmitter by the vehicle, causing it to think the key is in close proximity and prompting it to open. Thieves can then drive the vehicle away and quickly replace the locks and entry devices. Technically, any vehicle with keyless entry could be vulnerable to relay theft. These included cars from BMW, Ford, Audi, Land Rover, Hyundai, Volkswagen and Mercedes cars. How can you protect your vehicle against relay theft? According to research by the Institute of the Motor Industry, over half of motorists are worried their car could be accessed and stolen by remote thieves. Fifty per cent of people surveyed weren't aware that their car might be vulnerable to cyber attacks, and while drivers shouldn't become paranoid about the safety of their car it's always a good idea to take precautions. This has long been a necessary precaution in order to avoid car theft, but it's important to make sure that your key is as far from the front door as possible so its signal can't be picked up. As hacking devices get more sophisticated, they may be able to pick up signals from further away. This may seem a bit excessive, but a metal box could be the best place to store your keys overnight as the metal could block the signal being detected. Lorna Connelly, head of claims at Admiral, said: 'Unfortunately, we do see a claims from customers who have had their cars stolen due to relay theft and it's a problem that we would advise motorists with keyless cars to be aware of. 'Despite progresses in anti-theft technology, thieves are always coming up with new ways to make off with your vehicle. 'We are urging all of our customers to keep their keys a safe distance from the door and consider storing them in a metal box. While this may seem like an extreme solution, relay theft is an extreme practice.' SOURCE: Admiral

Kennedy believes that the thieves either removed the fob's physical SIM card, which is 'apparently easy to get to,' or used a battery powered device to block internet access in the vehicle.

Many experts recommend vehicle owners store their key fobs in what's referred to as a 'Faraday cage,' which is a container made with conducting material, like wire or mesh.

The cage is then able to block any electromagnetic fields sent out by the devices within the cage.

Tesla has also started to recommend that users turn off passive entry, in an effort to prevent these kinds of attacks in the future.

Passive entry makes it so that the car doors automatically unlock and open up when the key fob is nearby.

While potentially inconvenient, it could save a Tesla owner from having thieves drive off with their car in the dark.

====== 1642 ========

THE $1,000 SMART GLASSES THAT WON'T MAKE YOU LOOK LIKE AN IDIOT

A Canadian startup believes it has created the first pair of 'everyday smart glasses.'

While others have tried their hand at this, such as Google Glass or Snapchat's Spectacles, they haven't yet taken off among mainstream consumers.

But a new line of high-tech eyeglasses, called Focals, may be the pair you actually want to wear.

Scroll down for video

Canadian startup North has launched a new pair of $1,000 smartglasses, called Focals, that it's calling the first pair of 'everyday smart glasses.' They're expected to ship later this year

WHAT CAN FOCALS DO? Display text messages

Reply to texts using voice or emoji

Give real-time weather updates

Show turn-by-turn directions

Order an Uber

Display calendar reminders

Carry out Alexa commands

Control smart home devices

Focals start at $1,000 and are available for pre-order starting today. The glasses are expected to begin shipping later this year.

North, the startup behind Focals, has pitched itself as the Warby Parker of smartglasses.

Consumers are encouraged to visit North's two showrooms - one is located in Brooklyn and the other in Toronto - where they can have their measurements taken for a custom pair of Focals.

The glasses are artfully designed, made of high-quality polymer and come in a variety of colors and styles - a classic square shape and a rounded shape.

Users can also choose from prescription or non-prescription lenses.

At first glance, viewers will hardly notice that Focals are fitted with a slew of futuristic technology.

They come with a holographic display built into the lenses that only the wearer can see.

'The glanceable and minimalist interface gives you control over what’s happening in your digital world without pulling you away from what’s in front of you,' North explained.

A small projector located inside the glasses beams information onto the lenses in front of users' eyes.

Other developers have featured this technology in their smartglasses, but it either came out too clunky or the holographic images weren't rendered in top quality.

North CEO Stephen Lake said he believes the firm has created a solution.

'Previous attempts at this took a little LCD screen, wrapped it around and put it in front of your eyes through some bulky optics,' Lake told Engadget.

Focals are connected to Alexa, so users can give any number of commands like to play music, hear the news, see the weather, control your smart home, and see them carried out on-screen

The glasses are artfully designed, made of high-quality polymer and come in a variety of styles - a classic square shape and a rounded shape. Focals have a holographic display built in

'They never got it small enough to fit in regular glasses. We invented a new technology from the ground up that would.'

The display allows the wearer to scroll through notifications from their phone, such as text messages, real-time weather updates, calendar notifications and turn-by-turn directions. Users can also order an Uber.

'Have the peace of mind that you’re on top of your day without getting lost in your phone,' the firm explained.

'Focals give you access to the time and date, your daily calendar, weather and select notifications.

'Or you can turn on Do Not Disturb if you want to put it all on pause and focus on the task at hand.'

The display allows the wearer to scroll through notifications from their phone, such as text messages, real-time weather updates, calendar notifications and turn-by-turn directions

Focals come with another piece of hardware called the Loop, which is worn like a ring on your finger and lets you to click through notifications and prompts on Focals' holographic display

If users want to go handsfree, they can say Alexa commands how they typically would with any other voice activated device. For example, 'Alexa, show me the weather' brings up a forecast

Focals come connected to Amazon's Alexa digital assistant, so users can give any number of commands like to play music, hear the news, see the weather, control your smart home, and see them carried out on-screen.

The glasses connect to your Android and iOS smartphone using a Bluetooth connection.

The device also comes with another piece of hardware, called the Loop.

Loop is worn like a ring on your finger and allows you to click through notifications and prompts on Focals' on-screen holographic display.

Users press down on Loop's joystick-like mechanism to scroll left or right through notifications.

A small projector located inside the glasses beams information onto the lenses in front of users' eyes. North, the startup behind Focals, said they tried to keep the tech from being bulky

THE RISE AND FALL OF GOOGLE GLASS The Glass headset was first sold online as part of what Google called an 'open beta' known as the Explorer Program, back in 2014. The tech giant said this was part of testing for the device as a concept. This is where concept products are made and tested, but Google promises it would continue to be tested internally and 'built for the future'. But despite several rumours of a new version of the headset since, no announcements have been forthcoming. And the Google Glass official channel on social site Google+ has not been updated since January 2016. Since the demise of Glass, virtual reality headsets have become increasingly popular among consumers.

When the stick is pressed down, it'll bring up more details about a specific notification.

If users want to go handsfree, they can say Alexa commands how they typically would with any other voice activated device.

For example, saying 'Alexa, show me the weather,' will surface the forecast for the week.

Previous smart spectacle designs often appeared too tech-y, or simply weren't built for everyday use.

Instead, Focals are custom fit to each individual wearer's face.

When consumers come to North's brick-and-mortar showroom, their face is digital scanned for specific measurements, such as face shape and nose bridge size.

When consumers come to North's brick-and-mortar showroom, their face is digital scanned for specific measurements, such as face shape and nose bridge size, so that each pair is custom

Focals last about 18 hours on a single charge and they come with a charging case. The glasses are meant to be used periodically, for quick info requests or briefly reviewing notifications

The smart display isn't meant to run full-stop, however.

Many noted that the glasses began to heat up after a prolonged amount of time, which North said is normal.

Focals last about 18 hours on a single charge and they come with a charging case.

The smart display is meant to be used periodically, for quick information requests or briefly reviewing notifications.

The display actually fades away from the lenses after a while. Users just press down on the Loop joystick and it will surface again.

====== 1643 ========

STUNNING NASA FLYOVER VIDEO SHOWS AN UP-CLOSE LOOK AT THE SURFACE OF THE MOON

NASA has released a mesmerizing new video of the moon set to Claude Debussy's famous piano composition, Clair de Lune.

The stunning nature documentary-style footage uses high-resolution images from the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter to reveal an unprecedented look at the surface of Earth’s only natural satellite.

It follows the sun over the course of one lunar day, slowly panning over an endless landscape of craters and other surface features brought to life by elevation maps and image mosaics.

Scroll down for video

The new visualization was created to accompany a performance of Claude Debussy's Clair de Lune by the National Symphony Orchestra Pops.

It was performed at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, DC, on June 1 and 2, 2018, led by conductor Emil de Cou, as part of a celebration of NASA's 60th anniversary.

The incredible digital 3D model of the moon begins with a view of the waxing crescent, before closing in for a much more detailed look.

The flyover-style video zooms in to the Theophilus, Cyrillus, and Catharina craters for sunrise, and moves on to Apennine and Caucasus mountain ranges, Copernicus crater, Aristarchus plateau, and the Orientale basin.

Then, the video takes a look at the huge Schrödinger basin before moving back out to a view of the lunar far side.

NASA has released a mesmerizing new video of the moon set to Claude Debussy's famous piano composition, Clair de Lune. The stunning nature documentary-style footage uses high-resolution images from the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter to reveal an unprecedented look at the surface of Earth’s only natural satellite

The incredible digital 3D model of the moon begins with a view of the waxing crescent, before closing in for a much more detailed look. The flyover-style video zooms in to the Theophilus, Cyrillus, and Catharina craters for sunrise, and moves on to Apennine and Caucasus mountain ranges, Copernicus crater, Aristarchus plateau, and the Orientale basin

‘The visuals were composed like a nature documentary, with clean cuts and a mostly stationary virtual camera,’ the space agency explains.

‘The viewer follows the Sun throughout a lunar day, seeing sunrises and then sunsets over prominent features on the Moon.

‘The sprawling ray system surrounding Copernicus crater, for example, is revealed beneath receding shadows at sunrise and later slips back into darkness as night encroaches.’

The incredible video follows the sun over the course of one lunar day, slowly panning over an endless landscape of craters and other surface features brought to life by elevation maps and image mosaics

The video also takes a look at the huge Schrödinger basin before moving back out to a view of the lunar far side. It was created to accompany a performance of Claude Debussy's Clair de Lune by the National Symphony Orchestra Pops

Over the course of just under 5 minutes, the incredible footage flies through the moon’s North Pole and several more features at sunset, before concluding with a breathtaking look at the waning crescent

NASA has recently ramped up its efforts to get astronauts back to the moon, decades after the final landing of the historic Apollo missions.

The space agency is currently planning to get humans on the lunar surface no later than the 2020s, and set up an orbiting outpost by 2023.

These goals rely on recent advances in commercial space operations and the upcoming Orion spacecraft and Space Launch System rocket.

'This will be the first chance for the majority of people alive today to witness a Moon landing – a moment when, in awe and wonder, the world holds its breath,' NASA said earlier this year. 'However, America will not stop there.'

====== 1644 ========

CHARCOAL INSCRIPTION POINTS TO DATE CHANGE FOR POMPEII...

The volcanic eruption that destroyed the ancient Roman city of Pompeii probably took place two months later than previously thought, Italian officials said on Tuesday.

Historians have traditionally dated the disaster to Aug. 24 79 AD, but excavations on the vast site in southern Italy have unearthed a charcoal inscription written on a wall that includes a date which corresponds to Oct. 17.

The writing came from an area in a house that was apparently being renovated just before the nearby Mount Vesuvius erupted, burying Pompeii under a thick blanket of ash and rock.

The inscription on a wall of the excavations of Pompeii, (Naples), 16 October 2018. A charcoal inscription uncovered during new excavations at Pompeii backs the theory that the Mount Vesuvius eruption that destroyed the ancient Roman city took place in October of 79 AD, not August

HOW EXPERTS GOT THE DATE WRONG The Aug. 24 date derives from an account of the blast given by Pliny the Younger, who witnessed the eruption and wrote about it almost 30 years after the event in two letters to his friend, the Roman historian Tacitus. The Roman author was 17 at the time of the eruption, which he observed from the other side of the Bay of Naples. However, previous excavations have uncovered a calcified branch bearing berries that normally only come out in autumn. The discovery of some braziers over the years also suggested the disaster did not strike at the height of summer.

'Being charcoal, fragile and evanescent, which could not last a long time, it is more than likely that it was written in October 79 AD,' said Massimo Osanna, head of the Pompeii site.

While not listing a year, the graffiti reads: 'XVI K Nov,' meaning the 16th day before the calends of November, or October 17 in the modern calendar.

Archeologists found the inscription in a house that was in the process of being renovated at the time of the eruption, so the writing would have probably been covered with plaster shortly.

'That could help explain why, next to rooms with frescoed walls and ceilings, and with cemented floors -- in some cases with tiles or marble slabs -- there were some areas with plastered walls or even without floors, like the atrium and the entrance corridor,' archeologists said.

The Aug. 24 date derives from an account of the blast given by Pliny the Younger, who witnessed the eruption and wrote about it almost 30 years after the event in two letters to his friend, the Roman historian Tacitus.

However, previous excavations have uncovered a calcified branch bearing berries that normally only come out in autumn.

The discovery of some braziers over the years also suggested the disaster did not strike at the height of summer.

The inscription is dated the 16th day before the calends of November - i.e. October 17. It is the latest in a series of important finds made during recent excavations of the Regio V section of Pompeii

Right, Culture Minister Alberto Bonisoli (L) and the general manager of the archaeological park of Pompeii Massimo Osanna (R) show the inscription on a wall of the excavations of Pompeii, Naples. Left, an archaeologist working on the site

The writing came from an area in a house (artist's impression, pictured) that was apparently being renovated just before the nearby Mount Vesuvius erupted

Pictured is a reproduction of the eruption of Mount Vesuvius, from The Houses and Monuments of Pompeii, by Fausto and Felice Niccolini. Mount Vesuvius erupted in the year AD 79, burying the cities of Pompeii, Oplontis, and Stabiae under ashes and rock fragments, and the city of Herculaneum under a mudflow

Pictured are archaeologists working on frescoes during new excavations at the Pompeii archaeological site. Every single resident died instantly when the southern Italian town was hit by a 500°C pyroclastic hot surge

Experts believe that the Mount Vesuvius eruption that destroyed the ancient Roman city took place in October. The Aug. 24 date derives from an account of the blast given by Pliny the Younger

Osanna suggested the correct date might have been Oct. 24.

'It is highly probable that it can be dated to the October of AD 79, and more precisely to a week prior to the great catastrophe, which according to this hypothesis occurred on the 24th October,' the archeology team said in a statement.

Showing off the faint writing on an uncovered white wall, Culture Minister Alberto Bonisoli hailed it as an 'extraordinary discovery'.

'Today, with a lot of humility, maybe we're rewriting the history books because we're dating the eruption to the second half of October,' Bonisoli said.

A picture of the 'Villa del Giardino' unearthed in the same area where a charcoal inscription was uncovered during new excavations at Pompeii backs the theory that the Mount Vesuvius eruption took place in October

Pliny the Younger witnessed the eruption and wrote about it almost 30 years after the event in two letters to his friend, the Roman historian Tacitus. Experts are uncovering evidence that suggests the eruption took place during the autumn

An archaeologist (pictured) works on a picture of the 'Villa del Giardino' during new excavations. Experts believe the correct date might have been Oct. 24

====== 1645 ========

BOSTON DYNAMICS' REVEALS ITS ROBODOG SPOT DANCING ALONG TO UPTOWN FUNK

Don't believe him, just watch.

Spot the robo-dog has another trick up his sleeve in a new video where he can be seen twerking to Bruno Mars' dance-worthy hit 'Uptown Funk.'

Boston Dynamics, the secretive firm behind the four-legged droid, released the video on Tuesday.

Scroll down for video

If you thought humans were safe from the impending robot takeover on the dance floor, you might want to think again.

In the minute-long clip, Spot can be seen stepping and moving almost perfectly in time with the music.

He shimmies back and forth across the floor, while snapping his claw hand to the tune.

At one point, he even twerks his rear-end up and down, then moonwalks.

And in a testament to Spot's precise motor control, the robot performs his own version of the popular Running Man dance.

Spot Mini, which Boston Dynamics has teased for several years, is a more compact version of its larger counterpart, Big Dog.

It's designed to last for 90 minutes on a single charge and can lift large items, navigate around obstacles, as well as open doors.

Boston Dynamics said it hopes to have Spot up and running for a 'variety of applications' by the second half of 2019.

The video comes just a few days after the startup published a new video showing how it put Spot to work.

The clip shows the sensor-equipped device touring several construction sites.

Spot has previously been shown navigating obstacles and climbing stairs with ease.

But it seems the robotics firm is preparing Spot for use in the workplace.

'We have begun field testing the Spot robot for commercial usage around the world,' Boston Dynamics said.

'After an initial mapping run, Spot autonomously navigated two dynamic construction sites in Tokyo and used a specialized payload for surveying work progress.

'An additional camera in its hand lets Spot do even more detailed inspection work on site,' the firm added.

Spot is currently in preproduction and the firm expects to build about 100 of the robots starting next year.

Boston Dynamics said it hopes to have Spot up and running for a 'variety of applications' by the second half of 2019. It expects to build about 100 of the robots starting next year

Boston Dynamics first showed off SpotMini, the most advanced robot dog ever created, in a video posted in November 2017. It has a camera fitted in its claw hand to inspect things

In the video, Spot can be seen strolling around the Takenaka Corp. and Fujita Corp. construction sites.

He climbs up and down stairs, over obstacles such as wood planks on the floor, as well as around corners.

Spot can also move in reverse and in a circle. At some points, he deploys his claw arm, as if to lift a nearby cardboard box.

The robotic hand is fitted with a camera to perform inspections.

WHAT IS BOSTON DYNAMICS' SPOT MINI ROBO-DOG? Boston Dynamics first showed off SpotMini, the most advanced robot dog ever created, in a video posted in November 2017. The firm, best known for Atlas, its 5 foot 9 (1.7 metre) humanoid robot, has revealed a new 'lightweight' version of its robot Spot Mini. The robotic canine was shown trotting around a yard, with the promise that more information from the notoriously secretive firm is 'coming soon'. 'SpotMini is a small four-legged robot that comfortably fits in an office or home' the firm says on its website. It weighs 25 kg (55 lb), or 30 kg (66 lb) when you include the robotic arm. SpotMini is all-electric and can go for about 90 minutes on a charge, depending on what it is doing, the firm says, boasting 'SpotMini is the quietest robot we have built.' SpotMini was first unveiled in 2016, and a previous version of the mini version of spot with a strange extendable neck has been shown off helping around the house. In the firm's previous video, the robot is shown walking out of the firm's HQ and into what appears to be a home. There, it helps load a dishwasher and carries a can to the trash. It also at one point encounters a dropped banana skin and falls dramatically - but uses its extendable neck to push itself back up. 'SpotMini is one of the quietest robots we have ever built, the firm says, due to its electric motors. 'It has a variety of sensors, including depth cameras, a solid state gyro (IMU) and proprioception sensors in the limbs. 'These sensors help with navigation and mobile manipulation. 'SpotMini performs some tasks autonomously, but often uses a human for high-level guidance.'

Spot is just under three feet tall and has 3D vision, as well as 17 joints to help it move nimbly.

Boston Dynamics CEO Marc Raibert said earlier this year that he hopes Spot can be used in a variety of industries, including construction, delivery, security and home assistance.

Raibert also denied skeptics' beliefs that his firm's robots would one day be used to kill - insisting that they're more likely to take on the role of servant in the future.

'We think about that, but that's also true for cars, airplanes, computers, lasers,' Raibert said.

Boston Dynamics CEO Marc Raibert said earlier this year that he hopes Spot can be used in a variety of industries, including construction, delivery, security and home assistance

CEO Marc Raibert also denied skeptics' beliefs that his firm's robots would one day be used to kill - insisting that they're more likely to take on the role of servant in the future

'Every technology you can imagine has multiple ways of using it. If there's a scary part, it's just that people are scary. I don't think the robots by themselves are scary.'

It comes as the firm just yesterday released an eye-popping video of its Atlas humanoid robot running and jumping over objects.

The firm said the robot's software has been updated giving it the new features.

'The control software uses the whole body including legs, arms and torso, to marshal the energy and strength for jumping over the log and leaping up the steps without breaking its pace.

'Atlas uses computer vision to locate itself with respect to visible markers on the approach to hit the terrain accurately. '

====== 1646 ========

APPLE HAS A 'MORAL RESPONSIBILITY ' TO DEAL WITH TECH ADDICTION, JONY IVE REVEALS

Apple's chief design officer Jonathan Ive told The FT the problems created by Apple technology 'keeps me awake'

The man behind the iPhone and Apple Watch has revealed he believes the firm has a 'moral responsibility' to deal with the effects of its technology.

As technology firms come under increasing fire for their role in phone and app addiction, Apple's chief design officer Jonathan Ive told The FT the problem 'keeps me awake'

'If you're creating something new, it is inevitable there will be consequences that were not foreseen — some that will be great, and then there are those that aren't as positive,' he told the newspaper.

'There is a responsibility to try and predict as many of the consequences as possible and I think you have a moral responsibility to try to understand, try to mitigate those that you didn't predict,' he said.

'I think it's part of the culture at Apple to believe that there is a responsibility that doesn't end when you ship a product. It keeps me awake.'

Part of Apple's answer to the problem, called Screen Time, launched as part of the free iOS 12 software update for iPhones, iPads and the iPod Touch.

Technology firms have come under increasing fire for their role in phone and app addiction

It offers new tools for managing screen time, letting users see will let you see how often they (or their kids) picked up the phone after bedtime or how long they were on Instagram at work for.

Apple's chief design officer also revealed he attended the wedding of Princess Eugenie, saying he first met her father, Prince Andrew, who was pictured at the wedding wearing an Apple Watch, a decade ago.

Last week Ive told the Wired25 conference in San Francisco 'the nature of innovation is that you cannot predict all the consequences.

'In my experience, there have been surprising consequences,' he told Anna Wintour.

'Some fabulous, and some less so.'

Ive spoke to Anna Wintour at the WIRED25 Summit, who opened the questioning with a question about addiction.

'First there were iPhones, and now there's iPhone addiction,' said Wintour.

'How do you feel about that? Is the world too connected?'

'I think it's good to be connected,' Ive replied.

'I think the real question is what you do with that connection.'

'We've been doing a lot of work in terms of not only understanding how long you use a device, but how you're using it,' Ive said.

Ive said the key to beating addiction in human connection.

He said the work Apple has been doing on emoji and messaging are meant to 'restore some humanity to the way we connect.'

He also addressed Apple's secrecy, saying 'I've been doing this for long enough where I actually feel a responsibility to not confuse or add more noise about what's being worked on because I know that sometimes it does not work out.'

Wintour also asked what keeps Ive driven at Apple, and he says excitement was the key.

'If you lose that childlike excitement, I think it's time to do something else.'

Wintour asked if he's at that point, to which he responded 'Oh goodness no.'

====== 1647 ========

STUDENT, 18, CAPTURES AMAZING PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE CORNISH COASTLINE ILLUMINATED BY THE MILKY WAY

An amazing set of photographs shows the Cornish coastline illuminated by the bright stars of the Milky Way.

The images were snapped by 18-year-old student and astrophotography enthusiast Josef FitzGerald-Patrick, who got up during the early hours of the morning to capture the images.

He said taking the photographs was an 'awesome experience' that he found therapeutic, 'like meditating'.

Scroll down for video

Pictured is Kynance Cove, Cornwall, lit up by the Milky Way galaxy. The image is part of an amazing set of photographs of the Cornish coastline under the bright light of our galaxy

Mr FitzGerald-Patrick captured a small cove near Porthgwarra, Carn Les Boel, Kynance Cove, Mullion Cove, Pordenack Point, Mousehole Harbour, and Lanyon Quoit at various times throughout the night.

On one occasion, the dedicated photographer, from Land's End in Cornwall, woke up 2.30am and rode his bicycle six miles (9.5 km) to photograph the stars.

Mr FitzGerald-Patrick, who runs his own astrophotography workshops, used long-exposure techniques to capture the Milky Way.

This picture shows Pordenack Point on the county's southwestern tip. The images were taken over several shoots during the early hours of the morning yet the area is brightly lit up by the stars

This image shows Cornwall's Porth Loe. Mr FitzGerald-Patrick said taking the stunning photographs was an 'awesome experience' that he found therapeutic, 'like meditating'

Mullion Cove in west Cornwall is shown in this image. This cove has a working harbour that has been in operation since 1895 and was financed by Lord Robartes of Lanhydrock as a recompense to the fishermen for several poor pilchard seasons

Carn Les Bowl is pictured under the stars of the Milky Way in this image

His images have won a number of photography awards, including Youth Class Winner of AA Publishing's 2018 Landscape Photographer Of The Year.

The winning photo of Porthgwarra Cove in Cornwall will be published in a book displaying all of this year's finalists.

Mr FitzGerald-Patrick said: 'The views are surreal, I stood out there on the cliffs at crazy hours in the night relaxing, lying back and taking in the universe above.

'When I see the images appear on my camera screen I'm always stunned, it's an awesome experience and therapeutic like meditating.

'I shoot straight out over the Atlantic so have no light pollution at all. I keep an eye on the moon patterns to make sure that it isn't visible in the sky.

'Sometimes you can spend weeks waiting for a window of moonless sky to come around only for the weather to turn against you and rain.

'Not only do you have to be patient with the weather but also shooting the images takes its time.

'For example, with my image of the Milky Way above Pordenack Point, I had to wake up at 2.30am, ride my mountain bike six miles out to the cliffs and spend two hours getting the shots before riding home again.'

On one occasion, Mr FitzGerald-Patrick woke up 2.30am and rode his bicycle six miles (9.5 km) to photograph the stars. Pictured are Porthgwarra (left) and Lanyon Quoit under the Milky Way

====== 1648 ========

NASA REVEALS THE GAMMA RAY CONSTELLATIONS IN FUN INTERACTIVE SITE

You've never seen the constellations like this before.

NASA scientists have re-envisioned the shapes in the night sky using data from the Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope, putting a modern twist on the age-old practice.

Unlike the official 88 constellations, however, which are made up of recognizable forms created by the brightest stars, the new constellations map out the highest-energy form of light in the universe: gamma rays.

The space agency has released an interactive website showing the different gamma-ray constellations in the sky, revealing everything from the Albert Einstein to the USS Enterprise.

Scroll down for video

NASA scientists have re-envisioned the shapes in the night sky using data from the Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope, putting a modern twist on the age-old practice. The new constellations map out the highest-energy form of light in the universe: gamma rays

WHAT ARE GAMMA RAY BURSTS? Gamma ray bursts (GRBs), energetic jets of gamma rays that come from black holes, can be created in two different ways – resulting in long or short GRBs. They are created from some of the most violent deaths in the universe. Long GRBs last about a minute, and scientist think they are produced by supernova: when the core of a massive star collapses to become a black hole. Short GRBs last a second and are produced when two neutron stars merge.

'Developing these unofficial constellations was a fun way to highlight a decade of Fermi's accomplishments,' said Julie McEnergy, the Fermi project scientist at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center.

'One way or another, all of the gamma-ray constellations have a tie-in to Fermi science.'

According to NASA, some of the characters in the new constellation came about as the result of a gamma-ray experiment gone wrong.

The series includes the Little Prince, the TARDIS from 'Doctor Who,' Godzilla and his heat ray, the antimatter-powered U.S.S. Enterprise from 'Star Trek: The Original Series' and the Hulk, along with several landmarks from countries involved in the Fermi project.

Fermi's Large Area Telescope (LAT) has been surveying the sky every day since July 2008 measuring gamma rays.

These are emitted by all sorts of cosmic phenomena, including pulsars, nova outbursts, gamma ray bursts, and supermassive black holes.

According to NASA, some of the characters in the new constellation came about as the result of a gamma-ray experiment gone wrong. The series includes the Little Prince, the TARDIS from 'Doctor Who,' Godzilla and his heat ray, the antimatter-powered U.S.S. Enterprise from 'Star Trek: The Original Series' and the Hulk

Fermi's Large Area Telescope (LAT) has been surveying the sky every day since July 2008 measuring gamma rays. These are emitted by all sorts of cosmic phenomena, including pulsars, nova outbursts, gamma ray bursts, and supermassive black holes

'By 2015, the number of different sources mapped by Fermi's LAT had expanded to about 3,000 – 10 times the number known before the mission,' said Goddard's Elizabeth Ferrara, who led the constellation project.

'For the first time ever, the number of known gamma-ray sources was comparable to the number of bright stars, so we thought a new set of constellations was a great way to illustrate the point.'

The 21 gamma-ray constellations also include Sweden's recovered warship, Vasa, the Washington Monument, and Mount Fuji in Japan, as well as an array of people and concepts important to the scientific community.

The space agency has released an interactive website showing the different gamma-ray constellations in the sky, revealing everything from the Albert Einstein to the USS Enterprise, with artwork from Sonoma State University-based illustrator, Aurore Simonnet

The 21 gamma-ray constellations also include Sweden's recovered warship, Vasa, the Washington Monument, and Mount Fuji in Japan, as well as an array of people and concepts important to the scientific community

The interactive site maps out the gamma-ray sky, as seen by Fermi, with artwork from Sonoma State University-based illustrator, Aurore Simonnet.

'Fermi is still going strong, and we are now preparing a new all-sky LAT catalog,' said Jean Ballet, a Fermi team member at the French Atomic Commission in Saclay.

'This will add about 2,000 sources, many varying greatly in brightness, further enriching these constellations and enlivening the high-energy sky.'

====== 1649 ========

‘PENDULOUS’ LIPS AND A SHAPELY HUMP: SAUDI ARABIA'S MILLION-DOLLAR CAMEL BEAUTY PAGEANTS

When you hear 'beauty pageants' you probably think of human women (and men) competing.

However, a series of pageants on the Arabian Peninsula celebrate the beauty of the dromedary, or one-humped camel.

Interest in camel beauty competitions has grown since the boom of oil production during the 20th century, as camels became associated with status and wealth.

These pageants have become massive. In 2017, some 30,000 camels competed in the King Abul Aziz Camel Festival in Saudi Arabia, which has a prize pool of around AU$45 million.

When you hear 'beauty pageants' you probably think of human women (and men) competing. However, a series of pageants on the Arabian Peninsula celebrate the beauty of the dromedary, or one-humped camel

The winners in six categories each get roughly AU$7.5 million, along with the crown of 'Miss Camel'.

The lure of these glittering prizes has also led to cheating. Earlier this year 12 camels were disqualified from a camel beauty pageant in Saudi Arabia after receiving Botox injections to improve the look of their lips and noses.

So what constitutes a prize-winning camel?

Omani camel contests

Many breeds of camels compete in pageants across the Arabian Peninsula, so they are all assessed differently.

I have worked with the Omani Camel Racing Federation to help develop a new scoring system, which aims to improve transparency and fairness.

A requirement of Omani beauty contests is that only pure-bred camels from Oman may participate.

Camel owners must testify under oath to the authenticity of their animals' pedigree, or they are banned from taking part.

Local committees of experts assess and rank the camels, which are categorised by age after a teeth examination. They look for:

• Coat: a natural appearance with shiny hair of a clearly definable colour.

The brighter the hair, the more beautiful the pageant entrant is considered to be. No hair-colouring, tattooing or other cosmetic modification is allowed.

The winners in six categories each get roughly AU$7.5 million, along with the crown of 'Miss Camel'

Interest in camel beauty competitions has grown since the boom of oil production during the 20th century, as camels became associated with status and wealth

• Neck: must be long, wide, and elegant and lean, neither overly full nor skinny. The area between the neck and the hump should be long and strong.

• Head: should be large and upright as well as proportioned to the rest of the body.

Lips are pouty and pendulous, with the upper lip being cleft, chin is visible from the front and side, and eyes are wide with long, dark lashes. Ears are long, furrowed and pricked up, and also keep the sand out.

• Hump: large and shapely, in the usual position close to the back – a good posture and a large hump may increase a camel's chance of winning.

How competitions happen

Pageant contestants are housed away from the sun and fed milk, wheat, honey and dates before the competition.

During the contest itself, a handful of judges appointed by Omani Camel Racing Federation inspect the camels, consult with each other, and rank the animals.

The whole scoring process is qualitative, and at no point do the judges write a score or explain the reasoning behind their decisions.

The increasing popularity of camel beauty contests has caused some dissatisfaction over the absence of a formal scoring system.

While studying the genetics of a range of animals as diverse as crocodiles, platypuses, oryxes, wild pigs and peccaries, I agreed to take on a project to define criteria for competitions, based on the traditional judging system.

We began with a simple question: 'What features make a camel beautiful from an Omani perspective?' We then developed a numerical scoring card to help judges explain their decisions.

The lure of these glittering prizes has led to cheating. Earlier this year 12 camels were disqualified from a camel beauty pageant in Saudi Arabia after receiving Botox injections to improve the look of their lips and noses

We identified 22 body measurements across the head, upper body, front and rear, as well as general appearance and colour.

Each of these is scored to give a maximum total of 100 points.

The judges we have consulted are happy with the outcome and are looking forward to validating the system in upcoming major contests across Oman.

We are also assessing overall genetic patterns of the pageant contestants and their association with beauty traits.

We will be extending our genetic studies to camels used for racing, milk and meat in Oman.

====== 1650 ========

DEEP-SEA EXPEDITION STUMBLES UPON 'GARDEN' OF MORE THAN A THOUSAND BROODING OCTOPUSES

More than a thousand octopus mothers have been spotted congregating off the coast of California in an otherworldly scene unlike anything observed before.

Octopuses are known to brood their young for exceptionally long periods of time, and have been seen guarding their eggs in large groups.

But, experts say the ‘garden’ of cephalopods seen near Monterey Bay’s Davidson Seamount is the most massive cluster they’ve ever encountered.

Scroll down for video

More than a thousand octopus mothers have been spotted congregating off the coast of California in an otherworldly scene unlike anything observed before

Jaw-dropping footage captured by a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) with the E/V Nautilus expedition shows the undersea landscape dotted with a seemingly endless speckling of octopuses.

Each of the creatures sits with its tentacles wrapped around itself, its body tucked into a nook.

The cephalopods are in the middle of what’s known as brooding, in which they sit atop their eggs for months or even years on end.

In a study published back in 2014, scientists at the Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute revealed the deep-sea creatures in the area brood for upwards of four years.

Experts say the ‘garden’ of cephalopods seen near Monterey Bay’s Davidson Seamount is the most massive cluster they’ve encountered. Each of the creatures sits with its tentacles wrapped around itself, body tucked into a nook

Jaw-dropping footage captured by a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) with the E/V Nautilus expedition shows the undersea landscape dotted with a seemingly endless speckling of octopuses

While the behaviour itself isn’t unusual, stumbling upon over a thousand of them certainly is.

‘Never before seen in such massive aggregations, females were brooding eggs near shimmering fluid seeps – previously unknown to occur in this region!’ the E/V Nautilus team tweeted along with footage of the remarkable encounter.

Researchers shared images of the huge brooding group in a post highlighting the stunning octopus sightings they’ve had so far in the expedition – or, as they’ve dubbed it, ‘Octopalooza.’

The cephalopods are in the middle of what’s known as brooding, in which they sit atop their eggs for months or even years on end

Researchers shared images of the huge brooding group in a post highlighting the stunning octopus sightings they’ve had so far in the expedition

The photo gallery also included a look at the adorable white dumbo octopus the team came across last week.

These cephalopods are also commonly known as umbrella octopus.

This particular creature was spotted during the first of a series of dives at the Davidson Seamount, and with its small wing-like fins flapping slowly through the dark and a ‘web’ that fans out like an umbrella, it bears an uncanny resemblance to a cartoon ghost

During the dive, the team used the ROV to look at an unexplored ‘oasis’ region that sits southeast of the feature, where there are fields of coral and sponge.

Last week, the team revealed they'd encountered a 'ghostly' white dumbo octopus near the Davidson Seamount

HOW DO OCTOPUSES DEFEND THEMSELVES? One of the most effective ways octopuses avoid predation is by camouflaging with their environment. They have special pigment cells allow them to control the colour of their skin, much like chameleons. As well as colour change they can manipulate the texture of their skin in order to blend in with the terrain. As well as camouflage they can escape predators by using a 'jet propulsion' method of escape, where they rapidly shoot out water to propel them through the water rapidly. The jet of water from the siphon is often accompanied by a release of ink to confuse and evade potential enemies. The suckers on the tentacles of the eight-legged beasts are extremely powerful and are used to drag prey towards a sharp beak. As well as protection from other animals, it has been recently found that octopuses can detect the ultrasonic waves that preempt a volcanic eruption or earthquake, giving them enough time to escape.

‘At first the ghostly octopod drifted past the camera on ROV Hercules flapping its pair of wing-like fins, then it inverted its web, spreading it like an umbrella to reveal the eight arms each with a single series of suckers and two series of finger-like muscular structures called cirri,’ the team said.

The team estimates the octopus was about 60 centimeters long (2 feet).

The area near the Davidson Seamount stretches from 3,100 to 3,600 meters deep, and is home to basaltic rocky reef.

Researchers are hoping to survey the area and document the presence of deep-sea life, along with collecting water and sediment samples, and environmental data.

====== 1651 ========

US WARSHIP SHOOTS DOWN MISSILE IN SPACE IN SPECTACULAR TEST OF 'KILL VEHICLE'

The US Navy has revealed stunning footage of its latest successful test of the military's advanced interceptor technology.

It shows the U.S. Navy warship USS John Finn shooting down a medium-range ballistic missile in space.

The test, off the west coast of Hawaii, follows two failed tests of the next generation 'kill vehicle' designed to shoot down enemy intercontinental ballistic missiles should they ever be fired at the U.S.

Scroll down for video

The U.S. Navy warship USS John Finn shooting down a medium-range ballistic missile in space. The SM-3 interceptors destroy incoming ballistic missiles in space using nothing more than 'sheer impact'

The first successful test of the interceptor took place in February 2017 when sailors aboard the USS John Paul Jones took out a missile using an SM-3 Block IIA guided missile.

However, two subsequent tests failed, the last coming in late January 2018.

The SM-3 interceptors destroy incoming ballistic missiles in space using nothing more than 'sheer impact.'

'The interceptor uses sheer force, rather than an explosive warhead, to destroy its target,' maker Raytheon said.

'Its 'kill vehicle' hits threats with the force of a 10-ton truck traveling 600 mph.

'This technique, referred to as 'hit-to-kill,' has been likened to intercepting a bullet with another bullet. '

On October 26, 2018, the target missile was launched from the Pacific Missile Range Facility at Kauai, Hawaii.

The USS John Finn (DDG-113) detected and tracked the target missile with its onboard AN/SPY-1 radar using the Aegis Baseline 9.C2 weapon system.

HOW THE 'KILL VEHICLE WORKS' The SM-3 interceptors destroy incoming ballistic missiles in space using nothing more than 'sheer impact.' This technique, referred to as 'hit-to-kill,' has been likened to intercepting a bullet with another bullet. Raytheon, the maker, says its 'kill vehicle' hits threats with the force of a 10-ton truck traveling 600 mph. The SM-3 will be carried by U.S. Navy and Japanese ships as part of the AEGIS system. Aegis ships could patrol the Pacific Ocean and augment the network of ground-based midcourse defense interceptor missiles in Alaska and California that protect the United States from intercontinental ballistic missile attacks. This next-generation SM-3 will be carried by U.S. Navy and Japanese ships - and the Aegis Ashore land site in Poland, once it becomes operational. Lockheed Martin Corp's Aegis system currently is deployed aboard 36 U.S. Navy ships, as well as at the Pacific Missile Range Facility on Hawaii. Aegis ships could patrol the Pacific Ocean and augment the network of ground-based midcourse defense interceptor missiles in Alaska and California that protect the United States from intercontinental ballistic missile attacks.

Upon acquiring and tracking the target, the ship launched an SM-3 Block IIA guided missile which intercepted the target.

'Whether you fire SM-3 from sea or land, the result is the same; threat ballistic missiles are neutralized before they can ever harm anyone,' said Dr. Mitch Stevison, Raytheon Air and Missile Defense Systems vice president.

'It's not easy, but we are constantly evolving this proven capability to provide the strongest possible shield of protection for the U.S. and its allies.'

'Raytheon and Japanese engineers have designed an eye-watering capability into the SM-3 IIA,' said Roy Donelson, SM-3 program senior director. 'It has a larger rocket motor and more advanced kinetic warhead, giving it a homeland defense capability, if desired.'

This next-generation SM-3 will be carried by U.S. Navy and Japanese ships - and the Aegis Ashore land site in Poland, once it becomes operational.

The SM-3 Block IIA is bigger than the earlier IA or IB variants,

The target missile was launched from the Pacific Missile Range Facility at Kauai, Hawaii

The Poland site, along with the already active Aegis Ashore site in Romania, will provide missile defense protection for all of Europe, according to the U.S. Missile Defense Agency.

'This was a superb accomplishment and key milestone for the SM-3 Block IIA return to flight,' said MDA Director Lt. Gen. Sam Greaves.

'My congratulations to the entire team, including our sailors, industry partners, and allies who helped achieve this milestone.'

Based on observations and initial data review, the test met its objectives, according to the Agency.

Program officials will continue to evaluate the system's performance, it said.

The target missile was launched Friday from the Pacific Missile Range Facility at Kauai, Hawaii.

In August the Pentagon was given the mandate to pursue more options for defeating U.S.-bound North Korean missiles by using radar and more missiles to spot and shoot down inbound threats.

Upon acquiring and tracking the target, the ship launched an SM-3 Block IIA guided missile which intercepted the target

The SM-3 interceptors destroy incoming ballistic missiles in space using nothing more than 'sheer impact,

The military has been exploring whether the United States can add another layer to defenses to those already in place for intercepting incoming missiles.

The Aegis system, used in the latest test, was fitted with a Standard Missile 3 Block IIA (SM-3 IIA) interceptor being developed in a joint venture between Raytheon Co and Japan´s Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.

Lockheed Martin Corp's Aegis system currently is deployed aboard 36 U.S. Navy ships, as well as at the Pacific Missile Range Facility on Hawaii.

Aegis ships could patrol the Pacific Ocean and augment the network of ground-based midcourse defense interceptor missiles in Alaska and California that protect the United States from intercontinental ballistic missile attacks.

====== 1652 ========

LENGTH OF YOUR RING AND INDEX FINGERS 'COULD REVEAL YOUR SEXUALITY'

The length of a person's fingers could provide a clue to their sexuality, with women whose ring fingers are longer than their index digits more likely to be lesbian, a study has suggested.

Researchers at Essex University looked at sets of identical twins where one of the siblings was heterosexual.

They found that the homosexual twin tended to have a greater difference between the length of their index and ring finger, with the difference most pronounced among women.

Previous research has indicated that exposure to the male hormone testosterone in the womb could be linked to differences in finger length and also to sexuality.

Scroll down for video

Researchers found that the homosexual twin tended to have a greater difference between the length of their index and ring finger, with the difference most pronounced among women

How could your fingers reveal your sexuality? Men and women typically have different finger patterns. Women tend to have ring and index fingers of similar lengths while men's are more likely to vary. Babies who were exposed to more male hormone in the womb tend to develop more 'male-typical' hands. The latest study suggests that those with varying finger lengths are also more likely to be gay. Experts believe exposure to male hormone in the womb could also be linked to homosexuality.

Women's index and ring fingers are typically of similar length while in men there is a greater difference.

Both men and women are exposed to the 'male' hormone testosterone in the womb.

The study observed that in 18 sets of female twins, the lesbian twin had more 'male-typical' hands than her straight sister.

In 14 sets of male twins the gay twin had slightly more 'male-typical' hands than their straight brother but the difference between the two was not viewed as significant.

A chart indicated that the index finger of non-straight women was typically around 90 to 100 per cent as long as the ring finger.

Dr Tuesday Watts, from the department of psychology, said: 'Because identical twins, who share 100 per cent of their genes, can differ in their sexual orientations, factors other than genetics must account for the differences.

'Research suggests that our sexuality is determined in the womb and is dependent on the amount of male hormone we are exposed to or the way our individual bodies react to that hormone, with those exposed to higher levels of testosterone being more likely to be bisexual or homosexual.

'Because of the link between hormone levels and difference in finger lengths, looking at someone's hands could provide a clue to their sexuality.'

The findings are published in the journal Archives Of Sexual Behaviour.

HOW CAN YOU MEASURE YOUR 2D:4D RATIO? For readers, there are several ways to figure out their 2D:4D ratio. The new research uses an electronic caliper. Respondents were asked to place their hands on a flat surface, palms facing upwards, and straighten out their fingers. A researcher then measured the length of the index and ring fingers on both hands. This measurement should be taken from the center of the fold between the finger and palm up to the very tip of the finger. That way the upper lip of the caliper does not press against the finger.

Earlier this year scientists found there could be a link between the length of a child's fingers and the pitch of their voice.

A baby is more likely to grow to have a squeaky voice if the index finger on their right hands is longer than the ring finger, the research suggested.

Similarly, scientists said the connection is probably the result of a lack of testosterone in the womb.

Testosterone is known to be key to early body growth and plays an important role in how vocal pitch develops during puberty.

====== 1653 ========

TIME-LAPSE SHOWS 25 YEARS IN THE LIFE OF AN EXPLODING STAR 168,000 LIGHT YEARS FROM EARTH

An amazing timelapse reveals 25 years in the life of an exploding star whose dying embers burned with the power of 100 million suns.

Supernova 1987A sits 168,000 light years from Earth and is one of the brightest events of its kind to be detected in more than four centuries.

Scientists have threaded together the aftermath of the huge explosion using images taken since 1992.

The images show the shockwave expanding outward and slamming into debris that ringed the original star before its demise.

Scroll down for video

An amazing timelapse reveals 25 years in the life of an exploding star whose dying embers burned with the power of 100 million suns

SUPERNOVA 1987A Supernova 1987A was first spotted on February 23, 1987. It is one of the brightest events of its kind to be detected in over 400 years, blazing with the power of 100 million suns. SN 1987A is located in the nearby Large Magellanic Cloud, making it the nearest stellar explosion seen in hundreds of years. It's been observed by a number of instruments, including the Hubble Space Telescope, the Chandra x-ray Observatory, and the Atacama Large Millimetre/submillimetre Array (ALMA).

Since astronomers first spotted it on February 24th 1987, Supernova 1987A has been one of the most studied objects in the history of the field.

The supernova was the cataclysmic death of a blue supergiant star in the Large Magellanic Cloud, a satellite galaxy of our own Milky Way Galaxy.

It was the brightest supernova to appear in our skies since Kepler's Supernova in 1604 and the first since the invention of the telescope.

Researchers at the University of Toronto created a timelapse of the supernova explosion to reveal its progress over time.

The time-lapse was created from radio observations made with telescopes at the Paul Wild Observatory, New South Wales, Australia.

The supernova's shockwave is clearly visible as it expands and contracts into debris that surrounded the star before it died.

In an accompanying paper, University of Toronto researchers add to evidence that the expanding remnant is shaped like a donut - a form known as a torus - rather than a ring, like those surrounding Saturn.

They also confirm that the shockwave has picked up some 620 miles per hour (1,000kph) per second in speed.

Scientists have threaded together the aftermath of the huge explosion using images taken since 1992. The images show the shockwave expanding outward and slamming into debris that ringed the original star before its demise

The acceleration has occurred because the expanding torus has punched through the ring of debris.

SN 1987A is located in the nearby Large Magellanic Cloud, making it the nearest stellar explosion seen in hundreds of years.

Astronomers last year used the Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array (ALMA) to probe the heart of SN 1987A.

It is one of the brightest events of its kind blazing with the power of 100 million suns.

Supernova 1987A (artist's impression) was discovered in February 1987. It is one of the brightest events of its kind to be detected in over 400 years, blazing with the power of 100 million suns

Researchers produce an intricate 3-D rendering of newly formed molecules inside the supernova remnant in a study published last year

It allowed them to produce an intricate 3-D rendering of newly formed molecules inside the supernova remnant, and to discover a variety of previously undetected molecules which shed new light on how stars form and die.

'When this supernova exploded, now more than 30 years ago, astronomers knew much less about the way these events reshape interstellar space,' said Rémy Indebetouw, an astronomer at the University of Virginia.

'Thanks to ALMA, we can finally see cold "star dust" as it forms, revealing important insights into the original star itself and the way supernovas create the basic building blocks of planets.'

====== 1654 ========

MEET THE 'GHOSTLY' DUMBO OCTOPUS CAPTURED ON VIDEO OFF THE COAST OF CALIFORNIA

An adorable cephalopod with a ghostly appearance has been spotted drifting through the deep waters off the coast of California.

Researchers exploring the Davidson Seamount in Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary came across the so-called dumbo octopus earlier this week using a remotely operated vehicle (ROV).

With its small wing-like fins flapping slowly through the dark and a ‘web’ that fans out like an umbrella, the elusive sea creature looks just like a cartoon apparition.

Scroll down for video

An adorable cephalopod with a ghostly appearance has been spotted drifting through the deep waters off the coast of California

The E/V Nautilus team stumbled upon the white dumbo octopus on Oct 23. These cephalopods are also commonly known as umbrellas octopus.

It was spotted during the first of a series of dives at the Davidson Seamount.

During this dive, the team used the ROV to look at an unexplored ‘oasis’ region that sits southeast of the feature, where there are fields of coral and sponge.

‘At first the ghostly octopod drifted past the camera on ROV Hercules flapping its pair of wing-like fins, then it inverted its web, spreading it like an umbrella to reveal the eight arms each with a single series of suckers and two series of finger-like muscular structures called cirri,’ the team said.

With its small wing-like fins flapping slowly through the dark and a ‘web’ that fans out like an umbrella, the elusive sea creature looks just like a cartoon apparition. The E/V Nautilus team stumbled upon the white dumbo octopus on Oct 23

The team estimates the octopus was about 60 centimeters long (2 feet).

The area near the Davidson Seamount stretches from 3,100 to 3,600 meters deep, and is home to basaltic rocky reef.

Researchers are hoping to survey the area and document the presence of deep-sea life, along with collecting water and sediment samples, and environmental data.

Researchers exploring the Davidson Seamount in Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary came across the so-called dumbo octopus earlier this week using a remotely operated vehicle (ROV)

HOW DO OCTOPUSES DEFEND THEMSELVES? One of the most effective ways octopuses avoid predation is by camouflaging with their environment. They have special pigment cells allow them to control the colour of their skin, much like chameleons. As well as colour change they can manipulate the texture of their skin in order to blend in with the terrain. As well as camouflage they can escape predators by using a 'jet propulsion' method of escape, where they rapidly shoot out water to propel them through the water rapidly. The jet of water from the siphon is often accompanied by a release of ink to confuse and evade potential enemies. The suckers on the tentacles of the eight-legged beasts are extremely powerful and are used to drag prey towards a sharp beak. As well as protection from other animals, it has been recently found that octopuses can detect the ultrasonic waves that preempt a volcanic eruption or earthquake, giving them enough time to escape.

Davidson Seamount, an inactive undersea volcanic mountain, sits 129 kilometers southwest of Monterey and has come to be known as an ‘Oasis in the Deep’ due to the abundance of coral forests and sponge fields.

Elsewhere in its surroundings, the seafloor is flat.

But at the Davidson Seamount, the coral and sponge fields flourish with crabs, fish, shrimp, basket stars, and as yet unidentified species.

====== 1655 ========

DESIGN FOR 'ULTIMATE SUPERHUMAN' INCLUDES USAIN BOLT'S LEGS, MICHAEL PHELPS'S ARM SPAN

A physiologist and former British Olympian has unveiled the blueprint for what he describes as the world's 'ultimate superhuman'.

Greg Whyte's design includes the acceleration of Usain Bolt's legs, the arm span of record-breaking swimmer Michael Phelps and the agile feet of gymnast Simone Biles.

The ideal human - a composite of phenomenal humans from across sporting and other disciplines - also features cyclist Chris Froome's heart and boxer Anthony Joshua's ability to withstand punches to his gut.

In a British poll athletics stars Usain Bolt and Mo Farah were named as the top real-life superhumans, with high marks for Roger Federer, Serena Williams and Jessica Ennis-Hill.

Greg Whyte's design includes the acceleration of Usain Bolt's legs, the arm span of record-breaking swimmer Michael Phelps and the agile feet of gymnast Simone Biles. The ideal human - a composite of phenomenal humans from across sporting and other disciplines - also featured cyclist Chris Froome's heart and boxer Anthony Joshua's ability to withstand punches

Who are some of the people forming the 'ultimate superhuman'? Steve Redgrave - British rower who won gold medals at five consecutive Olympic Games (1984-2000) Eero Mäntyranta - Finnish skiier who won titles at the Winter Olympics Laurence Shahlaei - British strongman, winner of a Europe's Strongest Man title Becca Swanson - American powerlifter who holds a series of world records for women Joy Milne - Scottish woman who can smell the signs of Parkinson's Muhamed Kahrimanovic - Capable of breaking baseball bats with his bare hands Daniel Kish - Uses his ears to measure distance and navigate his surroundings after becoming blind as a child

The ultimate superhuman is likely to have legs like record-breaking Usain Bolt, Whyte said, with fast-twitch muscle fibres that provide the ability to accelerate faster than 99.9 per cent of the population.

They will also combine the lungs of British rower Steve Redgrave - whose seven-litre capacity means he can take in a third more oxygen than the average person - with the neck of Lennox Lewis who can withstand punches to the head.

Michael Phelps's arm span of more than six and a half feet - longer than his height - generates incredibly high forces and propelled him to his record 23 Olympic gold medals in swimming.

The feet of gymnast Simone Biles, who won four gold medals at the age of 19 at the Rio 2016 Olympics, would provide 'the perfect combination of agility, balance, strength and control', according to Whyte.

Away from sport, the perfect human would have the brain of 'human calculator' Scott Flansburg - who can add numbers faster than a real calculator - and the vocal range of Brazilian singer Georgia Brown.

The ideal person would have the vision of Veronica Seider, who has the keenest eyesight in the world. She isable to distinguish detail from up to a mile away and her sight is 20 times better than the average human.

Greg Whyte competed in the Modern Pentathlon - which includes fencing, swimming, riding, shooting and running - at the Olympics in 1992 and 1996.

He said: 'Many people possess superhuman powers without even knowing it.

Away from sport, the perfect human would have the brain of 'human calculator' Scott Flansburg - who can add numbers faster than a real calculator - and the vocal range of Brazilian singer Georgia Brown. The ideal person would have the vision of Veronica Seider, who has the keenest eyesight in the world

Michael Phelps's arm span of more than six and a half feet - longer than his height - generates incredibly high forces and propelled him to his record 23 Olympic gold medals in swimming

'Getting to superhuman status is undeniably a combination of nature and nurture; it's not only genetic makeup, but psychology, drive, determination and external environment that come together to create a superhuman.

'It's the perfect combination of all of these variables that's led to the incredible examples included within the ultimate superhuman.'

According to the poll of 2,000 Britons, Olympic heroes Usain Bolt and Mo Farah are the greatest superhumans, followed by much-loved naturalist Sir David Attenborough thanks to his encyclopaedic knowledge of nature.

Tennis legends Roger Federer and Serena Williams and heptathlete Jessica Ennis-Hill were also highly ranked in the survey.

Invisibility (31 per cent), the ability to fly (29 per cent), a faultless memory (29 per cent) and limitless energy (26 per cent) are amongst the most desired superpowers.

Some 45 per cent of respondents define being superhuman as having the ability to do the impossible, while 12 per cent feel superhuman if they manage to get through the day without reaching breaking point.

The research coincides with the return of U.S. series The Gifted, a FOX adventure series centred around mutant characters with incredible, superhuman powers airing Sundays at 9pm on FOX.

In a British poll athletics stars Usain Bolt (pictured left at the Rio 2016 Olympics) and Mo Farah were named as the top real-life superhumans, with high marks for Roger Federer, Serena Williams and Jessica Ennis-Hill (pictured right last year)

The feet of gymnast Simone Biles (pictured in August this year), who won four gold medals at the age of 19 at the Rio 2016 Olympics, would provide 'the perfect combination of agility, balance, strength and control', according to Whyte

====== 1656 ========

SCOTTISH RUM CONTAINER 'PROVES' A 19TH-CENTURY SHIPWRECK BELONGED TO 'FORGOTTEN' BRITISH EXPLORER

A 19th century rum flagon 'proves' an Arctic wreck belonged to a 'forgotten' British polar explorer, say Russian experts.

The container was inscribed with 'Robert K….Wine & Spirit(s) - Peterh(ead)' and is believed to originate from the Aberdeenshire town.

It was found in a shipwreck thought to be the Eira which was captained by forgotten British explorer Benjamin Leigh Smith.

Russia is hailing the 'major discovery' of the vessel, which sank off Franz Josef Land in the Arctic ocean in 1881 after being crushed between two giant ice floes.

Analysis of the remains has confirmed it is the elegant British steam yacht, which was propelled by a 50 horse power engine.

Scroll down for video

Divers rescued a rum container manufactured in Peterhead - the Scottish port where the Eira was purpose built for Benjamin Leigh Smith and his missions to map the unexplored areas of the Arctic ocean

Eira (pictured) sank off Franz Josef Land in 1881 after being crushed between two giant floes. The disaster stranded the 25 men on-board the vessel and forced them to live in the Arctic for ten months in a makeshift hut and surviving on polar bear meat

The disaster stranded the 25 men on-board Eira and forced them to live in the Arctic for ten months.

All crew members survived the ordeal and now divers have completed the first-ever trip to the sunken wooden-hulled icebreaker 65 feet (19 metres) below the surface.

Benjamin Leigh Smith was a leading explorer of the 19th-Century but he has been doomed to obscurity and forgotten by time due to his shunning of acclaim and his reluctance to self-promote.

He was also relatively overshadowed by the success of two powerful women in his life.

His cousin was Florence Nightingale and his sister Barbara was a feminist who was heavily involved with the campaign for women's rights.

Another ceramic fragment which would have been used in one of Eira's laboratories had an inscription 'London', confirming the British origin of the vessel.

The wreckage is located off Cape Flora, named after the explorer's legendary cousin Florence Nightingale, who nursed wounded soldiers during the Crimean War 1853-56.

'Such ceramics are typical for all specialised scientific ships, which, in fact, Eira was,' archaeologist Mark Stepanov told the Siberian Times.

After a 12 year search 'we can confirm 100 per cent that this is the Eira', he said, signalling it was a 'major discovery'.

Divers, operating in treacherous Arctic conditions, contended with difficult currents and icy waters.

Russia is hailing the 'major discovery' of the vessel, which sank off Franz Josef Land (pictured) in the Arctic ocean in 1881

The salvaged rum container is inscribed 'Robert K….Wine & Spirit(s) - Peterh(ead)'. The Russians believe it originates from a local merchant in the Aberdeenshire town

Some 45 small artefacts were collected ‘including ceramic pieces of laboratory dishes and tableware, elements of ship’s decorations, details of the ship’s equipment and mechanisms, rifle cartridges’

Forty-five small artefacts were collected 'including ceramic pieces of laboratory dishes and tableware, elements of ship's decorations, details of the ship's equipment and mechanisms, (and) rifle cartridges'.

The bow and stern of the vessel are missing and are presumed to have been destroyed by the ice crush that led to the Eira's sinking.

A video from a Kaliningrad TV station shows footage from the dives to the wreck and items recovered from the yacht.

Leigh Smith has been dubbed Britain's 'forgotten explorer' because he shunned the self-promotion of Victorian rivals.

The intrepid explorer had sailed on 14 June 1881 on the Eira, with 25 crew, a cat, a canary and a dog called Bob.

En route to the Arctic, a remarkable photograph records a meeting at sea with two other ships from Peterhead.

In all 13 dives were made this summer, lasting 336 minutes, and involving six divers. The first picture of a 19th century rum flagon 'proves' an Arctic wreck belongs to a 'forgotten' British polar explorer, say Russian experts

The bow and stern of the vessel are missing and are presumed to have been destroyed by the ice crush that led to the Eira's sinking. A video from a Kaliningrad TV station shows footage from the dives to the wreck and items recovered from the yacht

‘The visibility was very bad, but still we fulfilled the task’, the divers said of the mission. Another ceramic fragment which would have been used in one of Eira's laboratories had an inscription 'London', confirming the British origin of the vessel

Leigh Smith entertained the senior crew members on board the Eira, including Arthur Conan Doyle, then the ship's surgeon on the Hope, which - with a new crew - would be one of the vessels that rescued him and his men in 1882.

Leigh Smith was fascinated by deep sea currents, and wanted to find new territories in the Arctic.

But the crew were forced to spend ten months - including a harsh winter with temperatures dipping to minus 40°C (-40°F) - in the Franz Josef Land archipelago.

The Eira became trapped by fast moving ice floes - and the men had only two hours to abandon ship and salvage all they could.

The crew built a shelter - called Flora's Cottage - to survive the harsh winter, made from driftwood, rocks and ship masts.

In 1882 he led his men in four lifeboats made with tablecloths as sails and embarked on a perilous crossing to Novaya Zemlya where they were rescued by a British search party.

After a 12 year search 'we can confirm 100 per cent that this is the Eira', said an archaeologist, signalling it was a 'major discovery'. Divers, operating in treacherous Arctic conditions, contended with difficult currents and icy waters

The wreckage is located off Cape Flora, named after the explorer's legendary cousin Florence Nightingale, who nursed wounded soldiers during the Crimean War 1853-56

On his return to London, the explorer shunned the limelight, refusing to personally see Queen Victoria to tell her of his adventures.

He was awarded the Patron's Gold Medal of the Royal Geographical Society.

Ostrov Li-Smita (Leigh-Smith Island), east of Hooker Island (Franz Josef Land), is named after him, as are glacier Leighbreen and Kapp (Cape) Leigh Smith on Nordaustlandet, Svalbard.

He possessed 'a first class scientific mind' and 'in 1872 foresaw the dangers of global warming', according to his grandson Christopher Leigh Smith.

He wrote: 'Anticipating the long winter months ahead, they built a solid hut made from rocks, earth and wood, on a green patch, 20 feet (six metres) above sea level.

'They also built other huts to store the fish and meat they would need to kill and preserve.

'Bob the dog was invaluable in this and without his unremitting courage none of it would have been possible.

WHO WAS BENJAMIN LEIGH SMITH? Benjamin Leigh Smith (pictured) was a British yachtsman and explorer who completed several Arctic missions in the 19th-century Benjamin Leigh Smith was a British yachtsman and explorer who was born in Surrey on 12 March 1828. He was born out of wedlock to Anne Longden, a milliner from Alfreton, Derbyshire and Whig politician Benjamin (Ben) Leigh Smith Sr. One of Ben Sr's siblings (Fanny Smith) produced a daughter called Florence Nightingale, making the famed nurse and statistician the cousin of the intrepid explorer. His mother died of tuberculosis at the age of five in Ryde, the seaside town on the isle of Wight. Ben Smith Jr is one of five children and between 1871 and 1882 he undertook five major scientific expeditions to Svalbard and Franz Josef Land, a Russian archipelago in the Arctic ocean. His Arctic explorations brought him great acclaim and he won the prestigious Patron's Gold Medal of the Royal Geographical Society in 1881 after discovering 32cpoints in northeast Svalbard. During his missions he provided many samples and specimens to the British Museum and Royal Botanic Gardens and even provided London Zoo with live polar bears. After his early exploratory success Smith had his own purpose-built ship made - called Eira. Specifically built for Smith, Eira sailed on 14 June 1881 on the Eira, with 25 crew, a cat, a canary and a dog called Bob. En route to the Arctic the ship was recorded meeting at sea with two other ships from Peterhead. Leigh Smith entertained the senior crew members on board the Eira, including Arthur Conan Doyle, then the ship's surgeon on the Hope. This mission was designed to understand deep sea currents and to find new territories in the Arctic. Leigh Smith's purpose-built research vessel was crushed between two ice floes and sank in the frigid waters north of Siberia. Benjamin Leigh Smith (pictured, right) came from a successful and outspoken family with four siblings. He was 34 years older than his wife, Charlotte (pictured, left) The crew survived for 10 months in makeshift huts, rations of the ship's rescued provisions and walrus and polar bear meat they hunted. Leigh Smith then led a voyage of escape in boats with sails made from table cloths, before they were ultimately rescued by a re-manned Hope vessel. Every single man survived. His calm demeanour and leadership skills were heralded in the 19th-century but the explorer shunned Victorian customs of self-promotion and accolades. The humble man has since faded into obscurity due to his shunning of the limelight and a successful and outspoken family and the pioneering nurse as his first cousin, a father who was active in the campaign against the slave trade and his sister Barbara, a leading feminist and activist for women's rights. He was a family-orientated man and many of his Arctic discoveries were named after family members. He discovered and named Mabel Island after a niece, Amabel and the hut the 25 shipwrecked crew made out of driftwood, rocks and masts of ships on his last expedition was named Flora Cottage after his cousin Florence Nightingale. With the famous nursing pioneer for a first cousin and a father active in the campaign against the slave trade, Leigh Smith came from an outspoken family.

En route to the Arctic, a remarkable photograph (pictured) records a meeting at sea with two other ships from Peterhead. Bottom, from left to right are: David Gray at the helm (Capt. Eclipse), Benjamin Leigh-Smith (Capt./owner Eira), Arthur Conan Doyle (Surgeon Hope), John Gray (Captain, Hope), Dr Walker and Dr Neale, and William Lofley (ice master Eira) right at the stern

'On several occasions during fishing and hunting expeditions one or even several men would fall into the icy waters.

'Bob the dog always managed to save them, sometimes even running back to the camp for help.'

The Russians have saluted his 'great input into the discovery and early exploration' of the Arctic.

Between 1871 and 1882, Leigh Smith undertook five hazardous scientific expeditions to Svalbard and Franz Josef Land, bringing back specimens for the the British Museum and Royal Botanic Gardens - and even live polar bears for London Zoo.

'His leadership was so successful that the veteran Arctic whaling captain David Gray was moved to call him the very model of 'quiet, cool, thoroughbred English pluck',' wrote Peter Capelotti, author of Shipwreck at Cape Flora: The Expeditions of Benjamin Leigh Smith, England's Forgotten Arctic Explorer.

Capelotti says Leigh Smith 'always begged off' attempts in his lifetime to award him with medals.

Between 1871 and 1882, Leigh Smith undertook five hazardous scientific expeditions to Svalbard and Franz Josef Land, bringing back specimens for the the British Museum and Royal Botanic Gardens -- and even live polar bears for London Zoo

====== 1657 ========

3D RECONSTRUCTION OF A 60,000-YEAR-OLD RIB-CAGE REVEALS THAT NEANDERTHALS STOOD UP STRAIGHT

Neanderthals were not hunched-over savages, according to a discovery that could radically alter our image of the ascent of man.

Digital reconstruction of a Neanderthal's rib cage has revealed that the primitive hominid had a better posture than modern humans - as well as stronger lungs.

Far from the knuckle-dragging beasts we thought them to be, the upright walking style of Neanderthals allowed them to walk far farther than Homo sapiens.

This discovery has added more backing to the growing consensus that our ancient relatives were far more sophisticated than originally thought.

Scroll down for video

The 60,000-year-old Neanderthal male known as Kebara 2 underwent complex CT scans to create a 3D model of his chest. Unlike humans, the ribs connected to the spine in an inward direction - forcing the chest out and creating a straighter spine

The March of Progress (pictured) is a now discredited theory that said humans (far right) evolved from chimps (far left). The image gives an illustrative view of different stages in the evolution of hominids. Modern-day humans have many extinct cousin species that share a common ancestor. These include: Homo heidelbergensis, Neanderthals and Homo erectus

Unlike humans, the ribs connected to the spine in an inward direction - forcing the chest out.

This made them tilt slightly backwards, with little of the forward curvature of the lower or 'lumbar' vertebral column that is unique to humans.

Anthropologist Dr Markus Bastir, of the National Museum of Natural History, Madrid, said: 'The differences between a Neanderthal and modern human thorax are striking.'

The thorax includes the rib cage and upper spine which forms a cavity to house the heart and lungs.

Lead author Dr Asier Gomez-Olivencia, a palaeontologist the University of the Basque Country, Bilbao, said: 'The Neanderthal spine is located more inside the thorax, which provides more stability. Also, the thorax is wider in its lower part.'

This shape of the rib cage suggests a larger diaphragm and therefore greater lung capacity.

Senior author Dr Ella Been, of Ono Academic College, Israel, said: 'The wide lower thorax of Neanderthals and the horizontal orientation of the ribs suggest they relied more on their diaphragm for breathing.

'Modern humans, on the other hand, rely both on the diaphragm and on the expansion of the rib cage for breathing.'

This would have had a direct impact on their ability to survive on limited resources in the harsh environments they occupied, explained corresponding author Professor Patricia Kramer.

The first reconstruction of a Neanderthal's ribcage was based on the most complete skeleton unearthed to date.

The 60,000-year-old Neanderthal male known as Kebara 2 underwent complex CT scans to create a 3D model of his chest.

The first reconstruction of a Neanderthal's ribcage was based on the most complete skeleton unearthed to date

The structure of their bones made them tilt slightly backwards, with little of the forward curvature of the lower or 'lumbar' vertebral column that is unique to humans

The thorax includes the rib cage and upper spine which forms a cavity to house the heart and lungs. This shape of the rib cage suggests a larger diaphragm and therefore greater lung capacity

WHEN DID HUMAN ANCESTORS FIRST EMERGE? The timeline of human evolution can be traced back millions of years. Experts estimate that the family tree goes as such: 55 million years ago - First primitive primates evolve 15 million years ago - Hominidae (great apes) evolve from the ancestors of the gibbon 7 million years ago - First gorillas evolve. Later, chimp and human lineages diverge A recreation of a Neanderthal man is pictured 5.5 million years ago - Ardipithecus, early 'proto-human' shares traits with chimps and gorillas 4 million years ago - Ape like early humans, the Australopithecines appeared. They had brains no larger than a chimpanzee's but other more human like features 3.9-2.9 million years ago - Australoipithecus afarensis lived in Africa. 2.7 million years ago - Paranthropus, lived in woods and had massive jaws for chewing 2.6 million years ago - Hand axes become the first major technological innovation 2.3 million years ago - Homo habilis first thought to have appeared in Africa 1.85 million years ago - First 'modern' hand emerges 1.8 million years ago - Homo ergaster begins to appear in fossil record 800,000 years ago - Early humans control fire and create hearths. Brain size increases rapidly 400,000 years ago - Neanderthals first begin to appear and spread across Europe and Asia 300,000 to 200,000 years ago - Homo sapiens - modern humans - appear in Africa 50,000 to 40,000 years ago - Modern humans reach Europe

The young adult, also known as 'Moshe', was found in Kebara Cave in Northern Israel's Carmel mountain range in 1983 and is complete except for the skull.

Using virtual reality and CT scans allowed the team to model the fragile bones in a non-invasive manner that avoids damaging the specimen.

Direct observations of Moshe, currently housed at Tel Aviv University, and medical CT scans of vertebrae, ribs and pelvic bones were combined with specialised 3D software to create the images.

Dr Alon Barash, a lecturer at Bar Ilan University in Israel, said: 'This was meticulous work. We had to CT scan each vertebra and all of the ribs fragments individually and then reassemble them in 3D.'

They then used a technique called morphometric analysis to compare the images of Neanderthal bones with medical scans of those from present day men.

Direct observations of Moshe, currently housed at Tel Aviv University, and medical CT scans of vertebrae, ribs and pelvic bones were combined with specialised 3D software to create the images

Researchers also used a technique called morphometric analysis to compare the images of Neanderthal bones with medical scans of those from present day men

The young adult, also known as 'Moshe', was found in Kebara Cave (pictured) in Northern Israel's Carmel mountain range in 1983 and is complete except for the skull

Debate has lingered over the structure of the thorax, the capacity of the lungs and what conditions Neanderthals could adapt to since their existence was discovered almost 200 years ago.

Lead author Dr Asier Gomez-Olivencia, a palaeontologist the University of the Basque Country, Bilbao, said: 'The shape of the thorax is key to understanding how Neanderthals moved in their environment because it informs us about their breathing and balance.

'The Neanderthal spine is located more inside the thorax, which provides more stability. Also, the thorax is wider in its lower part.'

Professor Kramer said the next step is to learn how Neanderthals breathed and for what purposes they might have required powerful lungs.

This will tell us more about how they moved and the environment in which they lived.

WHO WERE THE NEANDERTHALS? The Neanderthals were a close human ancestor that mysteriously died out around 50,000 years ago. The species lived in Africa with early humans for hundreds of millennia before moving across to Europe around 500,000 years ago. They were later joined by humans taking the same journey some time in the past 100,000 years. The Neanderthals were a cousin species of humans but not a direct ancestor - the two species split from a common ancestor - that perished around 50,000 years ago. Pictured is a Neanderthal museum exhibit These were the original 'cavemen', historically thought to be dim-witted and brutish compared to modern humans. In recent years though, and especially over the last decade, it has become increasingly apparent we've been selling Neanderthals short. A growing body of evidence points to a more sophisticated and multi-talented kind of 'caveman' than anyone thought possible. It now seems likely that Neanderthals buried their dead with the concept of an afterlife in mind. Additionally, their diets and behaviour were surprisingly flexible. They used body art such as pigments and beads, and they were the very first artists, with Neanderthal cave art (and symbolism) in Spain apparently predating the earliest modern human art by some 20,000 years.

Debate has lingered over the structure of the thorax, the capacity of the lungs and what conditions Neanderthals could adapt to since their existence was discovered almost 200 years ago

The Neanderthals were a close human ancestor that mysteriously died out around 50,000 years ago. The species lived in Africa with early humans for hundreds of millennia before moving across to Europe around 500,000 years ago

These physical traits may have made them more or less vulnerable to climate change - the suggested cause of their extinction.

Professor Kramer said reconstructing the thorax was an exercise in starting from scratch, deliberately trying to avoid being influenced by past theories of how Neanderthals looked or lived.

She added: 'Thinking through all the permutations of the different fragments, it was like a jigsaw without all the pieces. What do the pieces tell us?

'People have told you it should be a certain way, but you want to make sure you are not over reconstructing, or reconstructing it the way you think it should be. You are trying to maintain a neutral approach.'

The findings back a virtual reconstruction of Moshe's spine by the same team two years ago that suggested he had an upright posture.

Studies in recent years have suggested humans and Neanderthals interbred.

Once depicted as grunting and slouching sub-humans, Neanderthals are now known to have had brains as large as ours and their own distinct culture.

They buried their dead, tended their sick and co-existed with our own ancestors in Europe for thousands of years before becoming extinct just as modern humans flourished and began to spread throughout the continent.

====== 1658 ========

DIG AT ITALY'S POMPEII VOLCANIC SITE YIELDS 5 SKELETONS

A 'shocking' discovery in Pompeii has found the undisturbed skeletons of five people who tried to take refuge from the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in A.D.79.

It is believe the five, two women and three children, sought safety in a small room - but were either crushed when the roof caved in or burned.

The house where they were found has revealed a string of discoveries in recent weeks - from stunning murals to an inscription that revealed the eruption was earlier than thought.

The remains of five people, probably two women and three children, were found in a during excavations in Pompeii, Italy, 24 October 2018. The group probably took refuge in the bedroom in a desperate attempt to escape a shower of volcanic rocks that had filled the house

The director of the Pompeii archaeological site, Massimo Osanna, called it 'a shocking find, but also very important for history.'

He told ANSA on Wednesday the skeletons were still intact, having been left undisturbed despite looting at the site centuries ago.

The bones - believed to be those of two women and three children - were discovered inside a house holding a charcoal inscription that historians say dates the deadly eruption to October, two months later than previously thought.

Archaeologists think the people sought safety in a small room but were either crushed when the roof caved in or burned.

The Italian news agency ANSA says new excavations in the ancient buried city of Pompeii have yielded the undisturbed skeletons of people who had taken refuge from the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in A.D.79

The house the skeletons were found in. Parts of it wereapparently being renovated just before the nearby Mount Vesuvius erupted

It is the latest in a string of finds at the site.

Last week archaeologists said the volcanic eruption that destroyed the ancient Roman city of Pompeii probably took place two months later than previously thought.

Historians have traditionally dated the disaster to Aug. 24 79 AD, but excavations on the vast site in southern Italy have unearthed a charcoal inscription written on a wall that includes a date which corresponds to Oct. 17.

The writing came from an area in a house that was apparently being renovated just before the nearby Mount Vesuvius erupted, burying Pompeii under a thick blanket of ash and rock.

'Being charcoal, fragile and evanescent, which could not last a long time, it is more than likely that it was written in October 79 AD,' said Massimo Osanna, head of the Pompeii site.

While not listing a year, the graffiti reads: 'XVI K Nov,' meaning the 16th day before the calends of November, or October 17 in the modern calendar.

The remains of skeletons that were found in the Pompeii archaeological site

An archaeologist inspects skeletons in the Pompeii archaeological site

An archaeologist inspects skeletons in the Pompeii archaeological site, Italy, Wednesday, Oct. 24, 2018. The Italian news agency ANSA says new excavations in the ancient buried city of Pompeii have yielded the undisturbed skeletons of people who had taken refuge from the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in A.D.79. The director of the Pompeii archaeological site, Massimo Osanna, told ANSA on Wednesday the skeletons, believed to be two women and three children, were still intact, having been left undisturbed despite looting at the site centuries ago.

Archaeologists found the inscription in a house that was in the process of being renovated at the time of the eruption, so the writing would have probably been covered with plaster shortly.

'That could help explain why, next to rooms with frescoed walls and ceilings, and with cemented floors -- in some cases with tiles or marble slabs - there were some areas with plastered walls or even without floors, like the atrium and the entrance corridor,' archaeologists said.

The Aug. 24 date derives from an account of the blast given by Pliny the Younger, who witnessed the eruption and wrote about it almost 30 years after the event in two letters to his friend, the Roman historian Tacitus.

The inscription on a wall of the excavations of Pompeii, (Naples), 16 October 2018. A charcoal inscription uncovered during new excavations at Pompeii backs the theory that the Mount Vesuvius eruption that destroyed the ancient Roman city took place in October of 79 AD, not August

However, previous excavations have uncovered a calcified branch bearing berries that normally only come out in autumn.

The discovery of some braziers over the years also suggested the disaster did not strike at the height of summer.

Osanna suggested the correct date might have been Oct. 24.

An archaeologist works on a picture of the 'Villa del Giardino' during new excavations at Pompeii archaeological site, Italy, Tuesday, Archeologists have found writings proving that the famous 79 AD eruption happened two months later than what the scientific community currently believes.

'It is highly probable that it can be dated to the October of AD 79, and more precisely to a week prior to the great catastrophe, which according to this hypothesis occurred on the 24th October,' the archeology team said in a statement.

Showing off the faint writing on an uncovered white wall, Culture Minister Alberto Bonisoli hailed it as an 'extraordinary discovery'.

'Today, with a lot of humility, maybe we're rewriting the history books because we're dating the eruption to the second half of October,' Bonisoli said.

====== 1659 ========

NASA TESTS PARACHUTE THAT WILL LAND ON THE RED PLANET WITH MARS 2020 MISSION

NASA has conducted a record-breaking test of the massive parachute that will be used to deliver its heaviest payload yet to Mars.

The 180-pound parachute inflated within four-tenths of a second after it was deployed during the test last month, in the fastest-ever inflation for a parachute of this size.

According to NASA, the successful test indicates the parachute design is officially ready for Mars.

Scroll down for video

NASA has conducted a record-breaking test of the massive parachute that will be used to deliver its heaviest payload yet to Mars. The 180-pound parachute inflated within four-tenths of a second after it was deployed

‘Mars 2020 will be carrying the heaviest payload yet to the surface of Mars, and like all our prior Mars missions, we only have one parachute and it has to work,’ said John McNamee, project manager of Mars 2020 at JPL.

‘The ASPIRE tests have shown in remarkable detail how our parachute will react when it is first deployed into a supersonic flow high above Mars.

‘And let me tell you, it looks beautiful.’

In the Sept 7 test, the parachute was launched with a 67,000 pound payload from a Black Brant IX sounding rocket.

During the ultrafast inflation, the huge Technora and Kevlar-fiber parachute created almost 70,000 pounds of force.

The space agency tested parachutes as a part of its Advanced Supersonic Parachute Inflation Research Experiment (ASPIRE) project, looking at two different parachute designs. While one of these was almost an exact copy of the parachute used for NASA’s Mars Science Lab, the other had stronger materials and stitching

The space agency tested parachutes as a part of its Advanced Supersonic Parachute Inflation Research Experiment (ASPIRE) project, looking at two different parachute designs.

While one of these was almost an exact copy of the parachute used for NASA’s Mars Science Lab, the other had stronger materials and stitching.

The team ultimately went with the stronger design after multiple tests, and deliberation on October 3.

‘Earth’s atmosphere near the surface is much denser than that near the Martian surface, by about 100 times,’ said Ian Clark, the test’s technical lead from JPL.

In the Sept 7 test, the parachute was launched with a 67,000 pound payload from a Black Brant IX sounding rocket. During the ultrafast inflation, the huge Technora and Kevlar-fiber parachute created almost 70,000 pounds of force

‘Mars 2020 will be carrying the heaviest payload yet to the surface of Mars, and like all our prior Mars missions, we only have one parachute and it has to work,’ said John McNamee, project manager of Mars 2020 at JPL. According to NASA, the successful test indicates the parachute design is officially ready for Mars

‘The ASPIRE tests have shown in remarkable detail how our parachute will react when it is first deployed into a supersonic flow high above Mars,' the researcher said

WHAT IS NASA'S MARS 2020 MISSION? The Mars 2020 mission is part of Nasa's Mars Exploration Program, a long-term effort of robotic exploration of the red planet. Nasa hopes the mission will help to answer key questions about the potential for life on Mars. The mission also provides opportunities to gather knowledge and demonstrate technologies that address the challenges of future human expeditions to Mars, including producing oxygen from the Martian atmosphere, and identifying water. The mission is timed for a launch in July/August 2020 when Earth and Mars are in good positions relative to each other for landing on Mars. According to NASA, the new rover will have 23 cameras (artist's impression pictured)

‘But high up – around 23 miles (37 kilometers) – the atmospheric density on Earth is very similar to 6 mile (10 kilometers) above Mars, which happens to be the altitude that Mars 2020 will deploy its parachute.’

The team will now be focusing on work in the lower stratosphere for the time being as they continue to prepare for the 2020 mission.

‘We are all about helping 2020 stick its landing 28 months from now,’ Clark said.

‘I may not get to shoot rockets to the edge of space for a while, but when it comes to Mars – and when it comes to getting there and getting down there safely – there are always exciting challenges to work on around here.’

====== 1660 ========

THE £2.5 MILLION MARTIAN MANSION: MARS'S FIRST HOMES WILL HAVE GARDENS, GYMS AND SPAS

The first humans to colonise the red planet will be living in luxury on the barren wasteland, experts claim.

Martian mansions will feature gyms, spas and the best views overlooking the rouge landscape.

A slice of the high-end real estate market on Mars is expected to cost around £2.5 million ($3.3 million).

Experts create designs for three homes on our galactic neighbour to mark the launch of National Geographic's second series of MARS.

Scroll down for video

Martian mansions will feature gyms, spas and the best views overlooking the rouge landscape. A slice of the high-end real estate market on Mars is expected to cost £2.5 million ($3.3 million)

The first humans to colonise the red planet will be living in luxury on the barren wasteland, according to experts

Mars expert Stephen Petranek and Professor David Dinges, an expert on human behaviour from the University of Pennsylvania, suggest settlers will live in opulence.

The first home is targeted at young professionals and is an apartment that features a garden, tinted windows and a water filled skylight.

The estimated cost for this outlandish piece of real estate would be in the region of £350,000 ($460,000).

A step up the property ladder would be a family home that comes complete with garage, conservatory-style veranda and private garden for approximately £650,000 ($855,000).

The first home is targeted at young professionals and is an apartment that features a garden, tinted windows and a water filled skylight (pictured)

The estimated cost for this outlandish piece of real estate would be in the region of £350,000 ($460,000)

Atop the martian property mountain sits a proposed £2.5 million ($3.3 million) mansion which comes complete with a private garden, gym, spa, car-port and a games room.

An accompanying survey of 2,000 people asked people about the prospect of living on Mars.

The National Geographic survey found that ten per cent of people would happily move to Mars in the opportunity arose tomorrow.

A step up the property ladder would be a family home that comes complete with garage, conservatory-style veranda and private garden for approximately £650,000 ($855,000)

Atop the martian property mountain sits a proposed £2.5 million ($3.3 million) mansion which comes complete with a private garden, gym, spa, car-port and a games room

A further 15 per cent found that buying property on the red planet is more appealing than it is on Earth.

Mr Petranek said: 'Ultimately, living on Mars must seem more appealing and psychologically inviting than living on Earth or not enough people will want to make a new life there.

'As we make these predictions now, we can only wonder what designs we will actually adopt as hundreds of thousands of people eventually move to the Red Planet.'

MARS 2 begins on Sunday 11th November at 8pm on National Geographic.

====== 1661 ========

BRAZEN GRAVE ROBBERS HAVE RANSACKED A PRE-HISPANIC CEMETERY IN PERU

Brazen grave robbers have damaged an ancient burial site by desecrating the human remains and leaving them dumped in a pile in order to steal ornaments and artefacts.

The shocking incident happened in a pre-Hispanic cemetery which could be up to 5,000 years old.

The site is known as Jerusalem K'uchu which is in a small rocky cave in the Combapata district of the Peruvian province of Canchis.

Local media report the thieves almost completely destroyed the graves in order to steal the ornaments the bodies were buried with.

Scroll down for video

Brazen grave robbers have damaged an ancient burial site by desecrating the human remains and leaving them dumped in a pile in order to steal ornaments and artefacts

The burial site is reportedly from 'Andean culture', a term used to describe the indigenous peoples of the Andes mountains, often those controlled by the Inca Empire.

The oldest known Andean civilisation is The Norte Chico civilisation of Peru dating back to 3200 BC and the Inca civilisation, which arose in the early 13th century.

From 1438 to 1533, the Incas controlled a large part of western South America, centred around the Andes mountain range before falling to Spanish conquistadors.

Photos show that the human bones and skulls were dumped in a pile so the thieves could reach the artefacts.

Archaeologists have reportedly confirmed the skeletons were completely disjointed in the raid and the stone and mud structures used to protect the remains were also destroyed.

Authorities are working to identify all the objects stolen and damaged by the thieves.

Fifteen human skulls found in the interior of the cave will need to be conserved.

The shocking incident happened in a pre-Hispanic cemetery which could be up to 5,000 years old. Those responsible have not yet been identified

Local media report the thieves almost completely destroyed the graves in order to steal the ornaments the bodies were buried with

From their ancient capital Cusco, the Incas controlled a vast empire called Tahuantinsuyo, which extended from the west of present-day Argentina to the south of Colombia.

The empire included the mountain-top citadel of Machu Picchu in modern-day Peru -- now a UNESCO World Heritage Site and a major tourist attraction.

The cultural organisation responsible for the site have reported the case to the National Police who have launched an investigation.

Those responsible have not yet been identified.

The burial site is reportedly from 'Andean culture', a term used to describe the indigenous peoples of the Andes mountains, often those controlled by the Inca Empire

The oldest known Andean civilisation is The Norte Chico civilisation of Peru dating back to 3200 BC and the Inca civilisation, which arose in the early 13th century. Photos show that the human bones and skulls were dumped in a pile so the thieves could reach the artefacts

Archaeologists have reportedly confirmed the skeletons were completely disjointed in the raid and the stone and mud structures used to protect the remains were also destroyed

The site is known as Jerusalem K'uchu which is in a small rocky cave in the Combapata district of the Peruvian province of Canchis

Earlier this year researchers in Peru claimed to have found the origins of the Incas using DNA analysis of their modern-day descendants.

After becoming fascinated by the Inca culture, their organizational skills and their mastery of engineering, researchers Ricardo Fujita and Jose Sandoval of Lima's University of San Martin de Porresit became interested in the genetic profile of their descendants.

They said the aim of the study, the first of its kind, was to reveal whether there was a unique Inca patriarch.

'It's like a paternity test, not between father and son but among peoples,' Dr Fujita told AFP.

The cultural organisation responsible for the site have reported the case to the National Police who have launched an investigation. Those responsible have not yet been identified

The scientists wanted to verify two common legends about the origin of the Incas.

'After three years of tracking the genetic fingerprints of the descendants, we confirm that the two legends explaining the origin of the Inca civilization could be related,' said Dr Fujita.

'They were compared with our genealogical base of more than 3,000 people to reconstruct the genealogical tree of all individuals.

'We finally reduced this base to almost 200 people sharing genetic similarities close to the Inca nobility.'

'The conclusion we came to is that the Tahuantinsuyo nobility is descended from two lines, one in the region of Lake Titicaca, the other around the mountain of Pacaritambo in Cusco. That confirms the legends,' said Dr Sandoval.

====== 1662 ========

NASA REVEALS STRANGE COFFIN-SHAPED ICEBERG HAS ENTERED ANTARCTIC 'GRAVEYARD'

A special issue of Nature has published a series of studies looking at how monitoring Antarctica from space is providing crucial insights into its response to a warming climate.

Here are their key findings:

Three trillion tonnes of ice has been lost from Antarctica since 1992

The Antarctic Ice Sheet lost around three trillion tonnes of ice between 1992 and 2017, according to research led by Leeds University.

This figure corresponds to a mean sea-level rise of about eight millimetres (1/3 inch), with two-fifths of this rise coming in the last five years alone.

The finds mean people in coastal communities are at greater risk of losing their homes and becoming so-called climate refugees than previously feared.

In one of the most complete pictures of Antarctic ice sheet change to date, an international team of 84 experts combined 24 satellite surveys to yield the results.

It found that until 2012 Antarctica lost ice at a steady rate of 76 billion tonnes per year - a 0.2mm (0.008 inches) per year contribution to sea level rise.

However, since then there has been a sharp, threefold increase.

At some point since the last Ice Age, the West Antarctic Ice Sheet was smaller than it is today

Researchers previously believed that since the last ice age, around 15,000 years ago, the West Antarctic Ice Sheet (WAIS) was getting smaller

However, new research published by Northern Illinois University shows that between roughly 14,500 and 9,000 years ago, the ice sheet below sea level was even smaller than today.

Over the following millennia, the loss of the massive amount of ice that was previously weighing down the seabed spurred an uplift in the sea floor.

Then the ice sheet began to regrow toward today's configuration.

'The WAIS today is again retreating, but there was a time since the last Ice Age when the ice sheet was even smaller than it is now, yet it didn't collapse,' said Northern Illinois University geology professor Reed Scherer, a lead author on the study.

'That's important information to have as we try to figure out how the ice sheet will behave in the future', he said.

The East Antarctic Ice Sheet was stable throughout the last warm period

The stability of the largest ice sheet on Earth is an indication to scientists that it could hold up as temperatures continue to rise.

If all the East Antarctic Ice Sheet melted, the sea level would rise by 175 feet (53 metres).

However, unlike the Greenland and West Antarctic ice sheets it seems it would be resistant to melting as conditions warm, according to research from Purdue University and Boston College.

Their research showed that land-based sectors of the East Antarctic Ice Sheet were mostly stable throughout the Pliocene (5.3 to 2.6 million years ago).

This is when carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere were close to what they are today - around 400 parts per million.

'Based on this evidence from the Pliocene, today's current carbon dioxide levels are not enough to destabilise the land-based ice on the Antarctic continent,' said Jeremy Shakun, lead author of the paper and assistant professor of earth and environmental science at Boston College.

'This does not mean that at current atmospheric carbon dioxide levels, Antarctica won't contribute to sea level rise.

'Marine-based ice very well could and in fact is already starting to contribute, and that alone holds an estimated 20 meters of sea level rise,' he said.

Decisions in the next decade will determine whether Antarctica contributes to a metre of sea level rise

One of the largest uncertainties in future sea-level rise predictions is how the Antarctic ice sheet reacts to human-induced global warming.

Scientists say that time is running out to save this unique ecosystem and if the right decisions are not made in the next ten years there will be no turning back.

Researchers from Imperial College London assessed the state of Antarctica in 2070 under two scenarios which represent the opposite extremes of action and inaction on greenhouse gas emissions.

Under the high emissions and low regulations narrative, Antarctica and the Southern Ocean undergo widespread and rapid change, with global consequences.

By 2070, warming of the ocean and atmosphere has caused dramatic loss of major ice shelves, leading to increased loss of grounded ice from the Antarctic Ice Sheet and an acceleration in global sea level rise.

Under the low emissions and tight regulations narrative, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and implementation of effective policy helps to minimise change in Antarctica, which in 2070 looks much like it did in the early decades of the century.

This results in Antarctica's ice shelves remaining intact, slowing loss of ice from the ice sheet and reducing the threat of sea level rise.

What saved the West Antarctic Ice Sheet 10,000 years ago will not save it today

The retreat of the West Antarctic ice masses after the last Ice Age was reversed surprisingly about 10,000 years ago, scientists found.

In fact it was the shrinking itself that stopped the shrinking: relieved from the weight of the ice, the Earth crust lifted and triggered the re-advance of the ice sheet.

According to research from the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK) this mechanism is much too slow to prevent dangerous sea-level rise caused by West Antarctica's ice-loss in the present and near future.

Only rapid greenhouse-gas emission reductions can, researchers found.

'The warming after the last Ice Age made the ice masses of West Antarctica dwindle,' said Torsten Albrecht from the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research.

'Given the speed of current climate-change from burning fossil fuels, the mechanism we detected unfortunately does not work fast enough to save today's ice sheets from melting and causing seas to rise.'

The world's ice shelves may be being destabilised by forces from above and below

Researchers found that warm ocean water flowing in channels beneath Antarctic ice shelves is thinning the ice from below so much that the ice in the channels is cracking.

Surface meltwater can then flow into these fractures, further destabilising the ice shelf and increasing the chances that substantial pieces will break away.

The researchers, led by the University of Texas at Austin, documented this mechanism in a major ice break up, or calving, event in 2016 at Antarctica's Nansen Ice Shelf.

The findings are concerning because ice shelves, which are floating extensions of continental glaciers, slow down the flow of ice into the ocean and help control the rate of sea level rise, according to the study.

'We are learning that ice shelves are more vulnerable to rising ocean and air temperatures than we thought,' said Professor Christine Dow, lead author of the study.

'There are dual processes going on here. One that is destabilising from below, and another from above.

'This information could have an impact on our projected timelines for ice shelf collapse and resulting sea level rise due to climate change', he said.

====== 1663 ========

INCREDIBLE IMAGES SHOW TIM PEAKE'S VIEW OF EARTH FROM THE INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION

The incredible images are being released as part of a 130th anniversary edition of the National Geographic Magazine, which is being edited by Peake

It is a view that most people will never get to experience in their lifetime but even astronaut Tim Peake admits the scene outside the window of the International Space Station can look a little unreal at times.

From a smoking volcano to mesmerising aurora, these incredible images show Peake's view of Earth during his time on the ISS.

The British astronaut said it was 'impossible not to be mesmerised' by the spectacular views of our 'fragile' planet.

The incredible images are being released as part of a 130th anniversary edition of the National Geographic Magazine, which is being edited by Peake.

Peake is a European Space Agency (ESA) astronaut who completed a 186-day mission working on the ISS, landing back on Earth in June 2016.

The station orbits at a height of about 255 miles (410km) and supports a crew of up to six, with crews split into groups of three.

It has a total mass of about 990,000 pounds (450,000kg) and has living space roughly equivalent to a five-bedroom house.

It completes an orbit of Earth every 92.91 minutes and moves at 17,100 miles (27,600km) per hour.

Peake said the experience made him realise we must 'focus our attention on ensuring our planet remains a safe environment to support human life.’

‘It was impossible not to be mesmerised by the fragile beauty of our planet', he said.

As part of an in-depth interview, Peake said he wants to launch long-distance spaceflights to Mars.

He said ahead of human missions ‘robotic probes and rovers will take samples of the Martian soil in the quest to find evidence of life there.’

This is happening as part of the ExoMars mission which will launch in Spring 2021 from Kazakhstan.

====== 1664 ========

ONBOARD FOOTAGE OF THE ABORTED SOYUZ RUSSIAN ROCKET LAUNCH RELEASED

Russia's space agency has revealed new video footage of the Soyuz rocket failute that forced astonauts to abandon their mission to the International Space Station 50 miles above Earth.

It shows one of the rockets four boosters failing to release properly, causing the terrifying spin.

Usually, the four boosters fall away perfectly symmetrically, creating a visual phenomenon sometimes referred to as a 'Korolev Cross,' after a Soviet rocket engineer.

Russian investigators say that the rocket itself was sound - and a sensor that sent the signal to jettison the rocket was to blame.

Scroll down for more video

The Soyuz-FG rocket carrying a NASA astronaut and a Roscosmos cosmonaut failed two minutes into the Oct. 11 flight, sending their emergency capsule into a sharp fall back to Earth.

They landed safely on a steppe in Kazakhstan, but the aborted mission dealt another blow to the troubled Russian space program that serves as the only way to deliver astronauts to the orbiting outpost.

Roscosmos' executive director Sergei Krikalyov said Wednesday the probe found that a malfunction of a sensor which signals the jettisoning one of the rocket's four side boosters caused the booster to collide with the second stage of the rocket, but didn't explain why it didn't work.

(L-R) Roscosmos' Deputy Director General for rockets production, operation of ground-based infrastructure and quality control, Alexander Lopatin, acting TSNIIMASH head Nikolai Sevastyanov, Head of the Roscosmos commission investigating the Soyuz rocket accident on 11 October 2018, Oleg Skorobogatov and RSC (Rocket and Space Corporation) Energia head Sergei Romanov take part in a news conference on causes of Soyuz rocket accident which took place on October 11

Oleg Skorobogatov, who led the probe into the accident, told reporters Thursday that the investigation found that the sensor was damaged during the final assembly at the launch pad in Kazakhstan.

Russian rockets are manufactured in Russia and then transported by rail to the Russia-leased Baikonur cosmodrome in Kazakhstan.

Skorobogatov said officials are now taking steps, including putting all assembly staff through competence tests and additional training, to make sure such malfunctions don't happen again.

The rocket producer will also take apart two other rockets that have been recently assembled and are due to launch in the coming weeks and then re-assemble them, Skorobogatov said.

Roscosmos officials on Wednesday met with their counterparts from NASA to give them a full briefing on the malfunction, Roscosmos director general Dmitry Rogozin said Thursday.

FILE - In this Thursday, Oct. 11, 2018 file photo, the Soyuz-FG rocket booster with Soyuz MS-10 space ship carrying a new crew to the International Space Station, ISS, flies in the sky at the Russian leased Baikonur cosmodrome, Kazakhstan. Russia's space agency says an investigation has found that a rocket carrying a crew to the International Space Station failed recently because of a technical malfunction of a sensor.

Russian space officials plan to conduct one more unmanned Soyuz launch from Russia and one abroad before launching a crew to the space station.

Krikalyov said they hope to send the new crew to the orbiting lab on Dec. 3.

That would also mean that the current crew will have to stay there for at least an extra week or two to ensure a smooth carry-over.

Sergei Krikalyov, a senior Roscosmos official, was quoted by state news agency TASS as saying the next manned launch had been planned for mid-December, but that Russia was trying to bring the date forward so that the ISS is not briefly left without a crew.

The three-person crew may return home on Dec. 20, he was quoted as saying.

'The industry is making significant efforts to move the launch to Dec. 3 so that the station does not switch to autopilot mode, and landing is expected around Dec. 20,' he said.

The Soyuz MS-10 spacecraft carrying the crew of astronaut Nick Hague of the U.S. and cosmonaut Alexey Ovchinin of Russia blasts off to the International Space Station (ISS) from the launchpad at the Baikonur Cosmodrome, Kazakhstan October 11, 2018 seconds before the mission was aborted

====== 1665 ========

THE ORANGE PLANET: STUNNING NASA IMAGE FROM THE ISS REVEALS EARTH IN A RARE 'AIRGLOW'

It is the latest in a series of stunning space images.

While sunrises on Earth can be impressive, from orbit, they take on a whole new dimension.

These incredible images, taken by European Space Agency astronaut Alexander Gerst are the lateast in a stunning series of images he has taken from the ISS.

However, these are the images that rendered him speechless.

'I don't know any words, in any language, to match the beauty of an orbital sunrise' he said after witnessing the incredible scene.

Last most he captured amazing images of a super typhoon.

'As if somebody pulled the planet's gigantic plug,' he wrote.

'Staring down the eye of yet another fierce storm. Category 5 Super Typhoon Trami is unstoppable and heading for Japan and Taiwan. Be safe down there!'

Gerst attained the unique perspective from 250 miles above the surface, aboard the orbiting International Space Station.

The stunning photo offers a glimpse into the views seen only by the astronauts on the ISS.

Gerst is currently leading the Horizons mission on the ISS, in his second stint at the orbiting lab.

====== 1666 ========

NASA ANNOUNCES 'QUIET' SUPERSONIC FLIGHT TESTS FOR ITS NEW X-PLANE

Nasa has announced a series of new tests for its 1,100mph (1,770kph) supersonic aircraft tipped to be the follow-up to the legendary Concorde.

The plane, dubbed the X-59 Quiet Supersonic Transport (QueSST), aims to cut out the noise associated with supersonic travel.

Nasa will fire off the aircraft's 'quiet' sonic booms over a small city in Texas this year in a bid to gauge public reaction to the dampened supersonic thuds.

The agency said the first full test flights of the X-59, which could one day fly from London to New York in just three hours, are scheduled for 2022.

Scroll down for video

Nasa has announced a series of new tests for its 1,100mph (1,770kph) supersonic commercial airliner tipped to be the follow-up to the legendary Concorde. The plane (artist's impression) aims to cut out the noise associated with supersonic travel

Dubbed 'son of Concorde' by aviation fans, the vehicle could lead to the first supersonic aircraft to carry commercial passengers since the iconic Anglo-French jet was decommissioned 15 years ago.

Originally named the Low-Flight Flight Demonstrator by Nasa, the agency announced last week that the aircraft was to be called X-59 QueSST going forward.

Before the aircraft takes to the skies, Nasa is investigating whether members of the public are put off by the noise produced by X-59 when it breaks the sound barrier.

Tests scheduled for November will see an F-18 fighter jet conduct a dive manoeuvre off the shores of Galveston, Texas - an island city near Houston.

The plane will dive from almost 50,000 feet (15,200 metres), briefly going supersonic and firing off the sound likely to come from X-59 aircraft.

The noise, which Nasa calls a 'sonic thump', should sound more like a car door slamming as opposed to the booms produced by existing supersonic aircraft.

The agency will measure the sounds using sensors on the ground while gathering public reaction through a series of surveys.

Alexandra Loubeau, Nasa's team lead for sonic boom community response research at Langley, said: 'We'll never know exactly what everyone heard.

'We won't have a noise monitor on their shoulder inside their home.

Nasa pilot Jim Less will fire off 'quiet' sonic booms over a small city in Texas this year in a bid to gauge public reaction to the dampened supersonic thuds. Pictured is Less with the F-18 fighter jet aboard which he will perform the research

'But we'd like to at least have an estimate of the range of noise levels that they actually heard.'

X-59, which Nasa is developing with Lockheed Martin's aeronautics branch, is scheduled to make its first flight in 2022.

Originally named the Low-Flight Flight Demonstrator by Nasa, the agency announced last week that the aircraft was to be called X-59 QueSST going forward.

The US Air Force made the name change in-part as a hat tip American X-plane history, which began in 1947 with the world's first supersonic plane, the the Bell X-1.

'For everyone working on this important project, this is great news and we're thrilled with the designation,' Jaiwon Shin, associate administrator for Nasa's Aeronautics Research Mission Directorate, said in a statement last week.

WHAT IS NASA'S 'SON OF CONCORDE' X-PLANE? Nasa is developing a 1,100mph (1,770kph) aircraft that has been dubbed the 'son of Concorde'. The vehicle is the first in a series of aircraft Nasa is developing with Lockheed Martin in a quest to build a commercially viable supersonic jet. It is designed to fly at Mach 1.4 (1,100mph / 1,700 kph) at an altitude of 55,000 feet (10 miles). Dubbed the X-59 Quiet Supersonic Transport (QueSST), the research craft aims to cut out the sonic booms associated with supersonic travel. Pictured is an artist's impression of the Quiet Supersonic Transport (QueSST) low-boom flight demonstrator (LBFD) The aircraft is shaped to separate the shocks and expansions associated with supersonic flight to reduce the volume of the shaped signature, and was developed by Lockheed's Skunk Works over 20 years. The team is hoping to achieve a sonic boom 60 dBA lower than other supersonic aircraft, such as Concorde. Recent research has shown it is possible for a supersonic airplane to be shaped in such a way that the shock waves it forms when flying faster than the speed of sound can generate a sound at ground level so quiet it will hardly will be noticed by the public, if at all.

The X-59 project aims to cut out the noisy sonic booms that echoed above cities in the era of Concorde, while travelling at speeds of 1,100mph (Mach 1.4 / 1,700 km/h).

The loud booms that rang out whenever a Concorde broke the sound barrier were often described as 'unsettling' by members of the public, which ultimately limited the aircraft to flights over the Atlantic when it began carrying passengers in 1976.

X-59 is designed to stop shockwaves triggered by the movement of air particles when an aircraft breaks the sound barrier from merging - a phenomenon that gives off the telltale sonic boom of supersonic aircraft.

Nasa hopes to reduce the sound of the sonic boom to a quiet thud, similar to the sound of thunder rumbling in the distance or a neighbour closing their door.

Nasa is developing the aircraft with Lockheed Martin's aeronautics branch with test flights planned for 2022. The plane is dubbed the Quiet Supersonic Transport (QueSST) low-boom flight demonstrator (artist's impression)

'With the X-59 you're still going to have multiple shockwaves because of the wings on the aircraft that create lift and the volume of the plane,' said Ed Haering, a Nasa aerospace engineer at Nasa's Armstrong Flight Research Center in California.

'But the airplane's shape is carefully tailored such that those shockwaves do not combine.

'Instead of getting a loud boom-boom, you're going to get at least two quiet thump-thump sounds, if you even hear them at all.'

Nasa's November tests will produce similar shockwaves using an F-18 fighter jet to conduct sharp manoeuvres in the air.

HOW WILL NASA REDUCE THE SOUND OF SONIC BOOMS? In a conventional supersonic aircraft, shockwaves from the nose, cockpit, inlets, wings and other features come together as they move through the atmosphere into strong shocks emanating from the nose and tail. These are known as bow and tail shocks, respectively. As these shockwaves pass over the ground, air pressure rises sharply, declines, then rises rapidly again. It's this that produces the classic 'double-bang' sonic boom. In a conventional supersonic aircraft, shockwaves from the nose, cockpit, inlets, wings and other features come together as they move through the atmosphere into strong shocks emanating from the nose and tail Reshaping the aircraft to produce a longer, more slender shape is the best way to generate shockwaves of lower, more equal strength that do not form into such strong bow and tail shocks. Nasa and other organisations are working on creating shapes to reduce sonic booms. Stretching the nose to break the bow shock into a series of weaker shockwaves is particularly effective. This lowers and spreads that initial pressure peak and softens the first bang of the sonic boom.

The aircraft, pilot by Nasa researcher Jim Less, will dive from 49,000 feet (15,000m) and go briefly supersonic before levelling off at 30,000 feet (9,000m).

Shockwaves produced by the manoeuvre will concentrate directly below the aircraft in the form of a very loud, focussed pair of sonic booms.

A few miles from the dive points, the noise quickly trails off as they spread out and weaken.

Flights conducted by Nasa in November will study the US public's reactions to 'quiet' supersonic noises above their homes. Pictured is an artist's impression of the Quiet Supersonic Transport (QueSST) low-boom flight demonstrator (LBFD)

'The result in that area: a pair of quiet sonic booms – soft thumps, really – which people on the ground, including those Nasa researchers and resident volunteers, might barely notice, if they hear anything at all,' the agency wrote in a statement.

QueSST is the latest addition to the X-series of experimental aircraft and rockets, used to test and evaluate new technologies and aerodynamic concepts.

Their X designation indicates their research mission status within the US system of aircraft naming.

This all dates back to Chuck Yeager's sound-barrier-breaking craft, the X-1, a rocket engine–powered aircraft, designed and built in 1945, that achieved a speed of nearly 1,000 miles per hour (1,600 kmh) in 1948.

The team hopes to reduce the sound of the sonic boom to a quiet thud, similar to the sound of thunder rumbling in the distance or a neighbour closing their door. This graphic compares the F18 sonic boom to the sonic 'thump' that Nasa aims to achieve in the future

Nasa's vision for the X-59 was approved In the latest proposed US budget released by the Office Of Management And Budget In Washington, DC, in February.

The space agency was awarded $19.9 billion (£14.3bn) for the next year, $500 million (£360m) more than the previous year.

It is not known what proportion of this has been allocated for the supersonic aircraft project.

QueSST will be used as a test bed for technologies that could make their way into commercial planes.

Nasa is hoping to see the first flight tests take place in 2022, with public reaction tests to the final aircraft scheduled for the following year.

====== 1667 ========

OCTAVIUS THE LONE OCTOPUS AQUARIUM WORKERS THOUGHT WAS MALE GIVES BIRTH TO THOUSANDS OF BABIES

A curator at the UGA Marine Education Center and Aquarium in Savannah, Georgia, has revealed the shocking moment staff finally realized what sex an octopus was.

Devin Dumont found that the tank holding Octavius, the aquarium's sole octopus resident, was full of tiny white particles.

But upon closer inspection, he realized that the white specks were something quite different: thousands of baby octopuses.

Scroll down for video

Octavius, an octopus at the UGA Marine Education Center and Aquarium in Savannah, Georgia, just became a mom.

'I noticed this cloud of moving dots and I realized, 'Oh my God, she had babies,' Dumont told Savannah Now.

'There are babies. There are babies everywhere.'

'And a sort of panic ensued,'

Aquarium staff did not know that Octavius was female, as the animals are extremely difficult to determine the sex of.

Dumont then began to scoop out the tiny hatchlings, placing them in buckets.

Some of the babies are being kept in nursery tanks and in a research lab but they are unlikely to live for long because baby octopuses rarely survive in captivity.

That's why the aquarium decided to release some of them in a tidal river.

Regardless, for the time being, the aquarium has gone from having just one octopus to having tens of thousands of them.

And more and more are hatching every day.

Unfortunately, the birth of Octavius' offspring spells the end for the cephalopod because females of her species, Octopus vulgaris, typically die after giving birth.

Octopus moms are genetically wired to use all their energy to protect their babies from predators.

Even though sharks, eels, and dolphins are nowhere to be seen, Octavius will be on guard until the last of her eggs has hatched, and will use whatever strength she has left 'to waft or aerate or fluff them,' said Dumont.

'She gives the last part of her life to her kids to protect them.'

UGA Marine Extension and Georgia Sea Grant

====== 1668 ========

EGYPT SAYS ARCHAEOLOGISTS FOUND MORE ARTIFACTS AT CAIRO...

Fragments of Ancient Egyptian stone slabs with inscriptions dating back 4,000 years have been discovered in Cairo.

The limestone fragments date back to various time periods, with some crafted as recently as the Seventh Century BC.



One inscription points to Atum, an important deity, as being responsible for the flooding of the Nile River in the Late Period, from 664-332 BC.

Scroll down for video

Fragments of Ancient Egyptian stone slabs with inscriptions dating back 4,000 years have been discovered in Cairo. Pictured is one of the fragments

Researchers at the University of Leipzig and Egypt's Antiquities Ministry made the discovery in eastern Cairo's Matariya neighbourhood.

Some of the fragments date back to the 12th and the 20th Dynasties and the Third Intermediate Period, while others are more recent.

Egyptologist Dietrich Raue, the head of the mission, said one inscription depicts Atum, a frequently mentioned god also known as the 'great he-she'.

Atum is one of the most important and frequently mentioned deities from earliest times, and features prominently in the famed Pyramid Texts.

Atum was the father of the gods, creating the first divine couple, Shu and Tefnut, from whom all the other gods are descended.

The Antiquities Ministry said the artefacts were the latest finds in Cairo's Matariya neighbourhood.

Researchers at the University of Leipzig and Egypt's Antiquities Ministry made the discovery in eastern Cairo's Matariya neighbourhood

Egypt frequently announces archaeological discoveries, hoping this will spur interest in its ancient treasures and revive tourism.

Atum was the father of the gods, creating the first divine couple, Shu and Tefnut, from whom all the other gods are descended

The country's tourism industry was hit hard by political turmoil following the 2011 uprising.

Archaeologists discovered a 4,400-year-old tomb in February near the country's famed pyramids at the Giza plateau just outside Cairo.

The tomb was found in a wider area of Giza's western necropolis, which is known to be home to tombs from the Old Kingdom.

It likely belonged to a woman known as Hetpet, who archaeologists believe was close to ancient Egyptian royals of the 5th Dynasty.

The tomb was made of mud brick and included wall paintings in good condition depicting Hetpet observing different hunting and fishing scenes.

