Scroll down for video

Diego Maradona led the wild celebrations after Dorados booked their place in the semi-final

The Mexican side, under Maradona's leadership, will battle it out for the Ascenso MX

The Argentina legends worked his players up into a frenzy and acted as the conductor

Hugs were handed out as Maradona congratulated his players on their achievement

Always one for a party, Maradona could be seen at the centre of the dressing room at the final whistle, leading the songs as the Dorados players celebrated the achievement.

It was only as a recent as September that Maradona, now 58, decided to take over at the helm of the Mexican second division club.

In a nomadic career after hanging up his boots, Maradona has moved through a variety of different roles across world football.

Dorados will play the winner of Atlante's clash with Oaxaca in the semi-final round

The Dorados job is the latest in the nomadic managerial career of Maradona

The World Cup winner took up a role as president of Belarus club Dinamo Brest in July, before quickly moving onto his next venture.

Dorados, who entered the play-offs as the seventh seed, will need to win either the Apertura or next year's Clausura to qualify for the play-off.

This will then determine which team will be promoted to Liga MX in May.

Dorados will play the winner of Atlante's clash with Oaxaca in the semi-final round with first legs set for November 21 or 22 and second legs scheduled for November 24 or 25.

====== 2534 ========

LIVERPOOL STAR SADIO MANE FALLS DOWN TO PITCH IN TEARS AFTER MISSING SIMPLE CHANCE FOR SENEGAL

Sadio Mane was helped from the field in tears as Senegal pulled off a 1-0 victory over Equatorial Guinea, after being booed by his own fans.

National talisman Mane missed a glorious chance to double Senegal's lead in the match, and quickly faced the wrath of the supporters.

Senegal had already qualified for the Africa Cup of Nations and now top their group as a result of the victory.

Scroll down for video

Sadio Mane was left in an emotional heap as Senegal recently defeated Equitorial Guinea

The Liverpool man tried to hold it together at the end after missing a chance to make it 2-0

But the emotion quickly got too much for Mane who began to break down on the pitch

As the tears came Mane buried his head into his shirt to hide his face from the fans

Les chaudes larmes de Sadio Mané à la fin du match face à la Guinée Equatoriale (0-1). Cependant, rien n'indique qu'il est blessé.

Le joueur de Liverpool semble triste à cause de son mauvais match.#Senegal #Liverpool #Can2019 pic.twitter.com/eDx7MOHCay — metrodakar.net (@metrodakar_net) November 17, 2018

But the end of the game brought about some emotional scenes for Mane, who had clearly taken incidents in the match to heart.

The Liverpool star could be seen struggling to fight back tears, before pulling his shirt over his face and falling to the turf.

Team-mates quickly arrived to help Mane and escort him from the public gaze, but the striker appeared too caught up in the moment.

Mane eventually left the field flanked by his fellow Senegal players, with the tears still flowing.

Team-mates flocked to Mane's aid while trying to usher him out of the spotlight

Despite being his nation's talisman Mane appears to not always be fully appreciated

Mane was recently nominated alongside his Reds team-mate Mohamed Salah for African Player of the Year, of which Salah scooped last season.

The forward also recently came in for glowing praise from manager Jurgen Klopp, who dubbed him 'world class' while speaking of the variety of positions he is able to play if required.

Mane has not spoken out on the incident, though the brother of the player is believed to have given his opinion via social media platform Instagram.

'It is rare to see a country dislike a star of his country like you do,' the message read.

'He will continue to fight for you, continue to sacrifice himself and continue to give the maximum for Senegal and love and respect the national flag.

'One day you will realise, but it might be too late.'

====== 2535 ========

HARRY KANE TELLS HIS FIANCEE THAT HE MIGHT CRY FOR ENGLAND IF THEY WIN A TROPHY

Harry Kane has joked with his fiancee Katie Goodland that he will definitely cry if England win a trophy but won't guarantee that he will when they get married.

With England having the opportunity to qualify for the inaugural UEFA Nations League finals on Sunday if they beat Croatia at Wembley, giving them the prospect of playing for a trophy next summer, Kane may get the chance to shed tears over an England triumph before he ties the knot.

He said: 'I always wind my missus up that I'd cry if we won a trophy with England. And she said if you don't cry when I walk down the aisle then she won't go through with it! I'm not a crier, I'm not someone who cries a lot. My missus has probably never seen me cry. So we'll have to see what comes first.'

Harry Kane has said he may shed tears over and England triumph before he ties the knot

Kane joked that he can't guarantee that he will cry when he marries fiancee Kate Goodland

The England captain says that he would always burst into tears if England lost as a child and or when he lost a game, but managed to hold in his emotions when England lost to Croatia in last summer's World Cup semi-finals.

'When I was younger [I cried when England lost] and even, to be fair, whenever I lost football: or most games,' he said.

'The Croatia semi-final was a close one. Obviously it was a mixed bag of emotions when we went out.

'Of course I was devastated when we went out but I didn't want to go down in tears. I wanted to stay strong and be there for my team-mates, being one of the leaders in the team as well.'

Kane pointed out that one of his best performances for England came in the 3-2 win over Spain

Kane is also hoping to end his seven-game streak of not scoring for England on Sunday. 'I have showed my game is not just about scoring goals but there is nothing more I want to do than score and win the game,' he said.

Despite his barren run, Kane pointed out that one of his best performances for England came last month in the 3-2 win over Spain where he didn't score but was a crucial influence in the creation of the goals and had the Spanish newspapers eulogising him.

'It was one of my favourite performances in an England shirt,' he said. 'It was a victory I'll probably remember for the rest of my life.

'My Dad was coming home and he was on a train in Spain and he had bought a load of newspapers and he could see my picture on them but obviously he didn't have a clue what they said!'

====== 2536 ========

PAUL POGBA POKES FUN AT HIS UNIQUE PENALTY RUN-UP BY RACING TORTOISE

Paul Pogba and Lionel Messi are currently making the most of their rare break off from football by unwinding in very different ways in Dubai.

Manchester United midfielder Pogba, who was forced to pull out of the France squad with a thigh injury, enjoyed a trip to the zoo where he spent time hanging out with the various animals.

Pogba also posted a video on Instagram of him mocking his unique penalty run-up, which United fans have seen all too regularly this season.

Paul Pogba posted a video on Instagram of him racing a tortoise while on holiday in Dubai

Pogba poked fun of his unique penalty run-up, which has been seen on various occasions

In the social media video, the World Cup winner can be seen jokingly racing against a tortoise, alongside the caption: 'Pogba penalty run vs turtle... I'm not that slow'.

After his visit to the turtle sanctuary, Pogba was then seen feeding a baby bear before being mimicked by a monkey.

Meanwhile, Barcelona star Messi, who has been absent from national duty since the World Cup, opted for a more leisurely time in Dubai. The five-time Ballon d'Or winner decided to spend some quality downtime with his wife.

The Manchester United midfielder feeds a baby bear during his visit to the zoo

The France World Cup winner was mimicked by a monkey as they stick their tongues out

Antonella Roccuzzo posted a picture on her own Instagram account of the pair posing for a picture on their holiday, accompanied by the message: 'Night out in Dubai'.

Pogba and Messi had been entertained by culinary celebrity Salt Bae in Dubai the night before.

The Turkish internet sensation wowed the pair with his meat-cutting skills, and his iconic salt sprinkling style that gave him his popular name.

Both players had a go at re-creating his technique, to differing success, and were then fed a slice piece straight from the knife.

Barcelona star Lionel Messi enjoyed a night out in Dubai with his wife Antonella Roccuzzo

Five-time Ballon d'Or winner Messi shakes hands with culinary celebrity Salt Bae in Dubai

====== 2537 ========

ALEKSANDAR MITROVIC LEFT RED FACED AFTER MISSING PANENKA PENALTY

Aleksandar Mitrovic went from hero to zero in Serbia's clash with Montenegro after missing a penalty trying to score a Panenka style chip.

Mitrovic's gaffe came just six minutes after scoring his side's second goal in the pivotal Nations League clash.

The Fulham striker had doubled the home side's lead over their close rivals with a deft close range volley.

Aleksandar Mitrovic attempted to chip a Panenka style penalty to put Serbia 3-0 up

Mitrovic's penalty came just moments after he had doubled his side's lead over Montenegro

But his miss in the League C Nations League encounter left him red faced in Belgrade

But he wasted the opportunity to put the game beyond Montenegro before half-time.

Serbia were awarded a highly controversial penalty, with Nemanja Matic seemingly kicking the ground to win a spot-kick in the 38th minute. The incident was reminiscent of the penalty Raheem Sterling won for Manchester City against Shakhtar Donetsk earlier this month.

But although Mitrovic left the keeper, who dived down low to his right, beaten his chipped penalty down the centre embarrassingly lopped over the crossbar.

Mitrovic's shot was at the same ground where Antonin Panenka made the penalty famous

Mitrovic was involved in a number of high profile incidents during the first half of the clash

Nemanja Matic won the penalty that led to Mitrovic's miss after appearing to kick the ground

The Manchester United star then collapsed to the turf within just yards of the ref (not in view)

The former Newcastle United star was involved in another highly controversial moment in the game between his goal and penalty howler.

Ready to attack a corner kick, he was punched on the back of the head by Marko Simic, who incredibly was only booked for the incident.

Serbia took a 2-0 lead into the break at the Rajko Mitic Stadium in Belgrade, with Adem Ljacic opening the scoring on the half-hour mark.

Mitrovic had earlier been punched in the back of the head by Montenegro's Marko Simic

Despite the offence in the Montenegro penalty box, Simic was only booked for the incident

Despite a second half reply from Stefan Mugosa, Serbia held on to claim all three points in Belgrade, leaving them closing in on promotion to the Nations League second tier.

Serbia will be promoted later on Saturday if Romania, who have six points from four games, fail to beat visiting Lithuania in the 1945 GMT kick off. Lithuania have no points from four games and face almost certain relegation to League D.

Ljajic and Mitrovic, who also missed a penalty, put Serbia in the driving seat but they were forced to hang on after Stefan Mugosa pulled one back in the 70th minute.

Serbia's Adem Ljajic (right) scores the opening goal on the half-hour mark in Belgrade

Ljajic celebrates after firing Serbia in front against their nearby neighbours

The home side dominated the opening period and Ljajic fired them ahead in the 30th minute when he took a delightful Dusan Tadic through ball into his stride and beat goalkeeper Danijel Petkovic with a cool finish.

Mitrovic doubled the lead two minutes later with a superb header after twisting and turning in mid-air to meet a teasing Aleksandar Kolarov cross from the left.

After his missed penalty, Mitrovic then shaved the far post and forced a good save from Petkovic with headers in the closing stages of the first period as Montenegro struggled to break out of their own half.

Mitrovic doubled Serbia's lead with a fine deft volley attacking a near post cross

Supporters look on as the Fulham strike celebrates his strike at the Rajko Mitic Stadium

Roared on by a small but noisy group of fans, Montenegro looked more purposeful after the break and striker Mogusa fired a thumping shot into the roof of the net from 10 metres.

Mirko Ivanic had Rajkovic at full stretch moments earlier and with their confidence restored, Montenegro came within inches of grabbing an equaliser barely a minute after they scored when Mugosa fired wide from 15 metres.

Predrag Rajkovic kept out two rasping long-range efforts as Serbia defended desperately in the last 15 minutes, triggering muted celebrations from the home crowd after the final whistle.

====== 2538 ========

MANCHESTER CITY STAR BENJAMIN MENDY IN HIGH SPIRITS AS HE LEAVES HOSPITAL FOLLOWING KNEE SURGERY

Benjamin Mendy triumphantly walked out of hospital in Barcelona after undergoing knee surgery.

The Manchester City full back has had his second operation in two seasons, after suffering a small tear to the meniscus muscle in his left knee.

He travelled to Barcelona to have the procedure done by renowned surgeon Dr Ramon Cugat but looked in good spirits as he left hospital.

On Saturday, Benjamin Mendy left hospital in Barcelona good spirits following knee surgery

The Manchester City star underwent surgery on his left knee after suffering a meniscus tear

The injury is not as serious as the ACL rupture in his right knee that kept him out for the majority of last season, although no time-frame for his recovery has been set.

Mendy is a larger than life character and joked on his Twitter that his left knee was jealous of the right one following the successful surgery.

The City full back then left hospital on crutches and despite the second setback of his short career in Manchester, still found time to pose for the cameras.

He walked out on crutches, but spread his arms wide and there was a large smile on the 24-year-old's face as he made his way to a waiting car.

Although Mendy enjoyed a fine start to the season he has been criticised by Pep Guardiola for his social media presence and occasional tardiness.

It is the second knee surgery Mendy, 24, has had since moving to City in the summer of 2017

The latest operation was on his left knee, not the right again, and is not as serious as last year's

City have not set a time-frame on Mendy's recovery and it may keep him out until the new year

'Hopefully we can convince him to forget a little bit the social media and improve a few things,' Guardiola said in August before rebuking him for turning up to training late in September when he was injured.

But the loveable Frenchman, who refers to City as the 'shark team', insists he has changed in recent weeks after talks with Guardiola.

'When the manager said the thing about social media, he said it as a joke. But I understood the message and we spoke about it a few times,' he told Sportsmail last week.

'Everything he says, we need to listen so, when he said this, I calmed down. He is the manager. I did so many stories before but now I've calmed down.'

====== 2539 ========

LIVERPOOL'S ALEX OXLADE-CHAMBERLAIN HAILS SUPPORT OF KLOPP AND BREWSTER DURING INJURY HELL

Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain has sung the praises of Jurgen Klopp and Liverpool youngster Rhian Brewster for their help during his latest injury lay-off.

The Liverpool midfielder, who has been plagued with injuries throughout his career so far, is expected to miss the whole of the current campaign after suffering knee ligament damage last April against Roma.

However, the former Arsenal man is currently on the road to recovery and is doing everything he can to get back out on the pitch as soon as possible.

Liverpool midfielder Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain has opened up on his latest injury lay-off

The 25-year-old is expected to miss the full campaign with knee ligament damage

Oxlade-Chamberlain has hailed the support of Rhian Brewster and manager Jurgen Klopp

And speaking during a video posted on Liverpool's website of him working hard in the gym, Oxlade-Chamberlain has opened up on his injury hell and the support from the club over the last couple of months.

When asked about Klopp's backing with his injury, the 25-year-old replied: 'He has been massive for me. Whenever I see him he has always got a smile on his face and is really positive.

'He keeps me in his thoughts; when he talks about the team he'll mention me, which is obviously really nice, especially when the boys are doing so well.

'The important thing is he has given me time and said: "We know how long this is going to be, don't worry about it, it's not a problem – get yourself right and then we'll go again." It's really nice to hear.'

With the midfielder spending plenty of time in the treatment room of late, he has struck up a close friendship with rising Liverpool and England star Rhian Brewster.

Liverpool posted a video on their website of the former Arsenal man recovering in the gym

Oxlade-Chamberlain picked up the serious injury in the Champions League last April vs Roma

England international Oxlade-Chamberlain is hard at work on the bike in the Liverpool gym

The 18-year-old striker is currently on the sidelines after suffering a setback in his recovery from an ankle injury.

The Liverpool duo have been helping each other through the recovery process and Oxlade-Chamberlain claims that Brewster spends a lot of his time checking up on the him.

'Rhian has been brilliant', the England international added. 'He is a great lad; I don’t really have to tell him too much, a lot of the time he is checking in on me, to be honest!

'He is always so positive, he has got that youthful enthusiasm about him, which is again really good to have around – it keeps me going.

'I’m glad to see him pushing on, he is going to be getting closer. That’s really good and I look forward to seeing what he can do on the pitch now.'

Oxlade-Chamberlain is looking to return for the Anfield outfit before the season finishes

====== 2540 ========

PAUL POGBA AND LIONEL MESSI ENTERTAINED BY SALT BAE IN DUBAI

Not all stars of world football are working hard with their countries during the international break.

Lionel Messi and Paul Pogba have taken advantage of their absences from Argentina and France duties to take a well earned rest.

And the Barcelona and Manchester United stars were entertained by culinary celebrity Salt Bae in Dubai.

Scroll down for videos

Lionel Messi shakes hands with Turkish culinary celebrity Salt Bae in Dubai

Paul Pogba was also entertained by the internet sensation during the international break

Salt Bae impressed the pair with his knife skills and then fed them from the knife

United defender Ashley Young was also entertained along with Pogba and Messi

The Turkish internet sensation wowed the pair with his meat-cutting skills, and his iconic salt sprinkling style that gave him his popular name.

Both players had a go at re-creating his technique, to differing success, and were then fed a slice piece straight from the knife.

While Messi was enjoying his date with Salt Bae, his Argentine compatriots were busy beating Mexico in Cordoba.

Manchester United star Pogba tried his hand at Salt Bae's famous sprinkling technique

Barcelona star Messi opens his mouth wide to eat some of Salt Bae's prepared meat

Goals from Ramiro Funes Mori and Isaac Brizuel gave them victory as Messi continues his break from the international game.

The 31-year-old has been absent from national duty since the World Cup, but may return in time for next year's Copa America.

Pogba was forced to pull out of the France squad with a thigh injury this week that caused him to miss last weekend's Manchester derby.

Messi could find himself spending more time in the company of the Frenchman, who remains strongly linked with a move to Barcelona.

Sportsmail reported last month that Barca's star-studded dressing room is keen for the 25-year-old to join their ranks.

Pogba's relationship with Jose Mourinho is at breaking point after he told the United manager he wanted to leave for the Nou Camp in the summer.

====== 2541 ========

GARY ANDERSON DENIES FARTING IN GRAND SLAM OF DARTS CLASH

Gary Anderson's quarter-final victory over Wesley Harms in the Grand Slam of Darts caused a stink on Friday night.

In one of the most astonishing and unexpected post-match exchanges in sport history, Harms accused his Scottish opponent of farting on stage.

Anderson strongly denied the accusation, and turned the tables on Harms saying there was a 'waft of rotten eggs' coming from his table.

Gary Anderson has flatly denied farting during his match with Wesley Harms

The two-time world champion won Friday's match 10-2, but his opponent was quick to explain his defeat by accusing Anderson of leaving a 'fragrant smell'.

He told Dutch TV station RTL7L: 'It'll take me two nights to lose this smell from my nose.'

In response Anderson launched an astonishing verbal volley: 'If the boy thinks I've farted he's 1010 per cent wrong. I swear on my children's lives that it was not my fault,' he said.

'I had a bad stomach once on stage before and admitted it. So I'm not going to lie about farting on stage.

Anderson insisted he was innocent and thought the smell came from his opponent

'Usually if I fart on stage I s**t myself. If I'd farted and it smelled like that I'd put my hands up and go "sorry, I need to get off".

'Every time I walked past there was a waft of rotten eggs so that's why I was thinking it was him.

'It was bad. It was a stink, then he started to play better and I thought he must have needed to get some wind out.

'If somebody has done that they need to see a doctor. Seemingly he says it was me but I would admit it.'

Harms claimed he was put off his game by his opponent repeatedly breaking wind

====== 2542 ========

DILIAN WHYTE RISKING HIS CHANCE FOR AN ANTHONY JOSHUA REMATCH

Derek Chisora has warned Dillian Whyte that he may be throwing away his chance for a rematch with Anthony Joshua by fighting him.

The British heavyweights will come together in the ring for a rematch on December 22. Whyte claimed a contentious split-decision win in a 12-round battle in their first meeting in 2016.

Whoever wins the fight will likely be the next opponent of Anthony Joshua, but Chisora says Whyte has already done enough to seal what would be a multi-million bout with the darling of heavyweight boxing.

Derek Chisora faced up to his opponent Dilian Whyte in Sky Sports' 'The Gloves Are Off'

The two fighters trade insults across the table ahead of their rematch on December 22

As a result, Chisora sees their own clash as an unnecessary risk from Whyte, whose opportunity to have a rematch with Joshua will be almost certainly gone for good should he lose.

Speaking on Sky Sports show The Gloves Are Off, Chisora said: 'You're telling me you can't wait another five or six months to fight AJ?

'It's right there, the golden gates are already open, saying "come in, my son".

'Guess what though, they don't want you to be sitting and waiting, they don't want to give you the fight.'

Whyte dismissed the claim that he could walk into a rematch with Anthony Joshua

Whyte's professional boxing record of 24-1 is only tarnished by his defeat to Joshua, who won via technical knockout at The O2 Arena in 2015. He has since rebuilt his reputation with eight wins including his fight with Chisora.

Responding to Chisora's claim, Whyte says he has little interest in waiting for Eddie Hearn to cut out a deal for a Joshua rematch and would rather keep himself sharp by fighting lesser opponents in the meantime.

He said: 'What am I going to sit around and wait for? That's the mistake I made last time; I waited two years then went in there and fought him.'

====== 2543 ========

LACAZETTE POKES FUN AT ARSENAL TEAM-MATE OZIL AS HE DONS GERMAN'S TRAINING TOP

Alexandre Lacazette has poked fun at Arsenal team-mate Mesut Ozil by wearing the German's training top and referring to himself as 'the real No 10'.

The French forward posted a photo of himself donning Ozil's training jersey on to Instagram on Friday afternoon.

Lacazette wrote: 'The real No 10,' followed by three laughing crying face emojis, '@m10_official sorry bro.'

Alexandre Lacazette has poked fun at club team-mate Mesut Ozil by wearing his training top

The 27-year-old striker was called up earlier this week to replace Anthony Martial in France's squad for their clashes against Holland and Uruguay.

However he had to inform the national team he was unable to accept the request after consulting with club doctors.

The 27-year-old striker also referred to himself as 'the real No 10' in his Instagram post

Lacazette has impressed under Unai Emery so far in the 2018-19 season, netting six times in 15 games.

Arsenal are in fifth place in the Premier League standings after drawing three games and losing two in their first 12 matches.

Following the international break the Gunners travel to Bournemouth in the league.

====== 2544 ========

BARCELONA TO CELEBRATE 20TH ANNIVERSARY OF NIKE PARTNERSHIP WITH 'MASH-UP' OF LAST 20 YEARS OF KITS

Barcelona are releasing a special edition shirt to celebrate their 20-year anniversary with Nike.

The iconic club and sportswear giant have worked together to produce a shirt that takes inspiration from all the kits warn by Barcelona's superstars over the last two decades.

The famous blue, maroon and red has seen a wide variety of iterations and plenty of thought has gone into this amalgamation of previous shirts.

Barcelona and Nike are celebrating their 20-year anniversary with this special edition shirt

Ronaldhinho and Luis Suarez are just two of the great players to have worn the famous shirt

There are a number of hoops, fine bars and blocked stripes on the anniversary kit, all nods to famous versions of the home strip.

The shirt will not be worn by Lionel Messi, Luis Suarez and Co on the pitch this season.

But it is going to be made available for supporters to get their hands on from November 21.

'This idea really came out of the blue,' says Pete Hoppins, Nike Football Apparel Senior Design Director.

Lionel Messi has worn Nike Barcelona shirts since making his debut for the team

'We wanted to do something different to celebrate the 20th anniversary. The main challenge was ensuring all the previous shirts were represented, but also that each one was carefully placed.

'We had to be mindful of the overall design, rather than just placing each one anywhere on the garment.'

No doubt the Catalan club will hope their next 20 years are as fruitful as the last have been with Nike.

In that period, Barcelona have won 10 Spanish titles, four Champions League trophies and the Copa del Rey seven times.

====== 2545 ========

TOTTENHAM RELEASE SPECIAL NFL SHIRT FEATURING STAR MAN HARRY KANE

Tottenham have released a special NFL jersey featuring Harry Kane in the latest exhibition of their association with the sport.

They teamed up with Nike to take a classic American jersey and give it a Tottenham twist with the shirt featuring their club crest and colours.

Tottenham unveiled the new shirt by posting a video on Twitter of Kane trying to hit the crossbar with an American football at their training ground on Friday morning.

Scroll down for video

Tottenham have released a special NFL shirt featuring star man Harry Kane

The shirt has Kane's name on the back of it and features the club's badge and colours

The shirts have been made available for purchase in time for Christmas and are going for the hefty price of £95 on the club's official website.

Tottenham have had an affiliation with NFL ever since striking a deal with the association back in 2015 to host a minimum of two games per season in their new White Hart Lane stadium.

The inaugural NFL match between Seattle Seahawks and Oakland Raiders was scheduled to take place in their new home on October 14 but had to be moved to Wembley due to delays on the stadium.

They unveiled the jersey by posting a video of Kane throwing an American football on Twitter

Kane was aiming to hit the crossbar and managed to pull it off after a couple of efforts

NFL AGREEMENT WITH TOTTENHAM The 10-year deal was first struck between The Premier League club and the association back in July 2015 to host a minimum of two NFL games per season at their new home. The £1billion stadium has been built with NFL in mind, from sight lines to medical facilities, retractable pitch, media area and oversized changing rooms.

The £1billion stadium has been built with NFL in mind, from sight lines to medical facilities, retractable pitch, media area and oversized changing rooms.

Chairman Daniel Levy also remains confident of bringing a London-based NFL franchise to their new stadium once it opens next year.

With concerns over whether or not it will be completed before May, Tottenham and the Football Association have this week agreed a contingency plan that will allow them to remain at Wembley for the remainder of this season.

====== 2546 ========

ALEX OXLADE-CHAMBERLAIN WORKS OUT WITH 'DEATH SPRINTS' ON £1,500 BIKE

Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain has been sidelined for several months and is likely to be out of action for a few more - but his work-out regime indicates he is on the road to recovery.

The midfielder suffered a serious knee injury against Roma last April which caused him to miss Liverpool's Champions League final and England's run to the 2018 World Cup semi-finals.

Oxlade-Chamberlain is likely to miss the majority of this season too, but is now able to undergo a series of punishing fitness drills, as shown off on his Instagram page.

Scroll down for video.

Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain looks to be recovering well from his serious knee ligament injury

The England midfielder posted clips online of him working hard on a £1,500 exercise bike

Liverpool star Oxlade-Chamberlain was injured in April and will miss most of this season

Among the fitness drills were a session on the top of the range RealRyder indoor cycle, which, if you want to train like a Premier League footballer, will set you back £1,500.

Oxlade-Chamberlain puts the bike through its paces as he leans, steers and pedals at full pace, sending the 66lb flywheel at the beck whirring.

He certainly seems impressed with both his kit and his progress, captioning the clip: 'Nahh this bike is mad... Tour de France soon come!'

Oxlade-Chamberlain has done plenty of work on the high-tech bike to aid his recovery

The workout ended with 'death sprints' which sent his his legs in a blur and his hair waving

Oxlade-Chamberlain suffered a serious knee injury in the Champions League against Roma

The full extent of the work-out is revealed in further clips of Oxlade-Chamberlain at full pelt in what he calls 'death sprints'.

For a few seconds, Oxlade-Chamberlain's legs go into a blur as he pushes himself to the limit. While only for a short sprint, it indicates that the road to recovery is currently smooth for the midfielder.

Oxlade-Chamberlain is self-depreciating however, able to laugh at the sight of his hair waving back and forth as he pedals, captioning the clip: 'The mop nearly flew off mi head top'.

Oxlade-Chamberlain poked fun at himself by captioning this clip 'facials' with a laughing emoji

The 25-year-old has extensively documented his recovery with plenty of social media posts

His humour is also on display in the caption on another clip of his leg workouts as he grimaces as he lifts the weight with his feet.

The clip is simply captioned 'Facials', along with a laughing emoji - but Liverpool fans will want to see the midfielder smiling on the pitch soon, especially on this evidence.

The 25-year-old has extensively documented his recovery, with clips of him in the gym, boxing and even on an anti-gravity treadmill.

====== 2547 ========

FANS GO MAD AS EDEN HAZARD DELIVERS OUTRAGEOUS PASS TO HELP SET UP MICHY BATSHUAYI FOR BELGIUM

Eden Hazard produced a moment of magic in Belgium's 2-0 Nations League victory over Iceland.

The Chelsea star has been shining bright for the Blues and carried his club form onto the international stage, carving the defence open with a brilliant pass.

He picked up the ball slightly infield on the left before teasing a defender with some neat close control and cutting inside onto his right foot.

Scroll down for video...

Eden Hazard picked up the ball around 25 yards from goal and cut inside onto his right foot

The Belgian star then bisected the defence with a brilliant ball for Thomas Meunier

Meunier hardly had to break stride and squared it across goal for Michy Batshuayi to tap in

The 27-year-old then produced a perfectly weighted ball through a gap in the defensive line for Thomas Meunier to gallop onto.

Meunier hardly had to break stride and squared across the six yard box for Michy Batshuayi to slide in and convert with ease.

And the Hazard pass provoked widespread acclaim on social media, with plenty lauding his piece of skill.

Hazard pulled the strings for his side as they eased to a 2-0 victory over Iceland

One called it 'different gravy' whilst another wrote: 'Hazard laughs at your 20/20 vision.'

Another even weighed in with his belief that Hazard has surpassed Lionel Messi as the best player in world football.

Hazard will again be expected to play a central role for Belgium in their Nations League clash against Switzerland on Sunday.

The 27-year-old carried his Chelsea club form onto the international stage with Belgium

====== 2548 ========

SIR KENNY DALGLISH RECEIVES KNIGHTHOOD FROM PRINCE CHARLES

Former player and manager Kenny Dalglish received his knighthood from the Prince of Wales for 'services to football, charity, and the city of Liverpool' at Buckingham Palace on Friday.

Dalglish won six First Division championships and three European Cups as a Liverpool player before guiding the club to three more league titles as a manager. He also led Blackburn Rovers to the Premier League title in 1995.

He won a number of honours with Celtic at the beginning of his playing career and earned 102 caps for Scotland during an international career that spanned 15 years.

Sir Kenny Dalglish has received his knighthood from the Prince of Wales at Buckingham Palace

Liverpool and Celtic legend Dalglish, 67, was knighted for 'services to football, charity and the city of Liverpool' at Friday's investiture ceremony in London

Dalglish speaks with the Prince of Wales after receiving his honour at Buckingham Palace

Off the field, Dalglish, 67, supported the families of the victims of the 1989 Hillsborough Disaster and he has raised more than £10million for charity alongside his wife Marina.

Dalglish told Sky Sports News after the ceremony: 'It is a bit humbling but I'm hugely proud of what's happening.

'You never set out in your life to do anything other than what your parents taught you to do or wanted to do and that was to be decent to people and if somebody needed help, you helped them.

Dalglish and wife Marina after the ceremony at Buckingham Palace on Friday

The former player and manager kneels before the Prince of Wales to receive his award

Dalglish revealed the Prince put him completely at ease with a few words to settle the nerves

Dalglish shakes hands with the Prince of Wales after becoming a Sir at Buckingham Palace

'That's all we've done and the three things I've been recognised for are three things that are close to my heart. All we did, myself and Marina, was what we thought ought to be done.

'You're nervous but it is a strange environment for you to be in. Prince Charles had a couple of words and he was very calming and very pleasant so that helps you to relax a little bit but it doesn't take away all the nerves.

'If you don't have a wee bit of nerves or a little bit of anticipation, you're quite a sad person!'

Dalglish achieved success as both a player and manager - on the left, he is pictured after winning the European Cup with Liverpool in 1978. On the right, with the Premier League trophy as Blackburn Rovers manager in 1995

He added: 'I was lucky to play with two fantastic football clubs at hugely successful times for them and with the Scottish squad we weren't too far away from being successful as well.'

Speaking about becoming a Sir, he said: 'You feel humble. When you start off in your life, what do you want? You just want to play football.

'And when you play football, what do you want to do? You want to try and be successful, be a professional footballer, try and win something.'

====== 2549 ========

REF LAUGHS OFF ROCK, PAPER, SCISSORS BAN AS HE'S PRESENTED WITH COIN

Suspended referee David McNamara is doing his best to make light of his punishment for making the captains in a Women's Super League game play rock, paper, scissors before a match.

McNamara left his coin in the dressing room ahead of the 1-1 Women's Super League draw between Manchester City and Reading on October 26.

Rather than returning or going to the touchline to collect one, he had the two skippers - Kirsty Pearce of Reading and Steph Houghton, captain of City and England - decide their ends and who would take kick-off with the playground game.

Scroll down for video.

Suspended referee David McNamara was presented with a coin by the Royal Navy FA

McNamara made two Women's Super League captains play rock, paper, scissors pre-game

As exclusively revealed by Sportsmail this week, the FA decided to suspend referee McNamara for 21 days from November 26.

However McNamara has gained support from some in the game, including Royal Navy Football Association (RNFA) referee's committee.

The committee posted a picture on their Twitter page of McNamara being presented with a special coin by a member of the navy.

McNamara has been banned from officiating for 21 days by the FA after the bizarre incident

The tweet said 'HMS Victorious Casing Officer Matthew Kromolicki awarding David McNamara a commemorative coin to use instead of RPS', along with emojis of a fist, a piece of paper and a pair of scissors.

The FA however did not see the funny side of the incident, deciding to suspend McNamara from action for three weeks.

An FA spokesman said: 'The FA can confirm that referee David McNamara has been suspended for 21 days, starting from Monday 26 November, after accepting a charge of "not acting in the best interests of the game".

'This follows an incident in the WSL match between Manchester City and Reading on Friday 26 October when he failed to determine which team would kick off the match by the toss of a coin, as required by the Laws of the Game. McNamara will return to duty from Monday 17 December.'

====== 2550 ========

BOURNEMOUTH STRIKER JERMAIN DEFOE RECEIVES OBE AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE

Jermain Defoe admitted he felt proud to receive his OBE (Order of the British Empire), before dedicating his award to Bradley Lowery.

The Bournemouth striker was given the award in June following his work in the Jermain Defoe Foundation that supports homeless, vulnerable and abused children in St Lucia - his family's home country.

But along with his charity work, Defoe also notably struck up a friendship with Lowery - a terminally ill six-year-old Sunderland fan during his time with the Black Cats.

Jermain Defoe stands proud with his OBE award at Buckingham Palace on Friday

Defoe admitted that it was 'an amazing feeling' to receive the award at the Palace

Lowery sadly passed away in 2017 and while Defoe admitted he still hurts from losing his friend, admitted receiving his award was a happy day.

'I would like to dedicate this to my little friend Bradley,' Defoe told Sky Sports News. 'Everyone knows the relationship I had with Bradley.'

'I got this for my Foundation but I think above all of that this relationship I had with Bradley. I had great memories of Bradley - it still hurts. But to receive something like this today it makes me feel good. I'm proud and happy.

Defoe is made an OBE by the Prince of Wales during the ceremony at Buckingham Palace

Defoe dedicated the award to Bradley Lowery, who he developed a friendship with while at Sunderland, with the six-year-old having sadly passed away in 2017 following terminal illness

JERMAIN DEFOE CV 1999 - 2004 West Ham United 2000 - 2001 Bournemouth (loan) 2004 - 2008 Tottenham Hotspur 2008 Portsmouth (loan) 2008 - 2009 Portsmouth 2009 - 2014 Tottenham Hotspur 2014 Toronto 19 2015 - 2017 Sunderland 2017 - present Bournemouth

'It's special, so surreal. Even in the Palace I stood there like "wow this is really happening", it's an amazing, amazing feeling.'

The striker later added with a post on Instagram that read: 'Feeling honoured and blessed to receive my OBE today at the Palace'.

Defoe was presented with the award by the Prince of Wales at Buckingham Palace, with the 36-year-old pictured afterwards posing proudly with his OBE.

The striker's friendship with Lowery started in 2016 while he was at Sunderland, with the young fan seeing Defoe as his hero.

He and Defoe were virtually inseparable as he bravely fought against a rare form of cancer called neuroblastoma.

Defoe has since had 'Brads' tattooed on his arm to serve as a permanent reminder of his special relationship with Lowery.

Jermain Defoe has had his special friendship with Bradley Lowery marked on him forever

====== 2551 ========

LIONEL MESSI SCOOPS ALFREDO DI STEFANO TROPHY AND PICHICHI AWARD

Lionel Messi will need to get himself a bigger trophy cabinet after collecting two more pieces of silverware at an awards ceremony on Monday.

The Argentine, who made his Barcelona return on Sunday in the 4-3 defeat to Real Betis, scooped the Alfredo Di Stefano trophy as well as the Pichichi award.

The Di Stefano award is given to the best player in La Liga while the Pichichi award, named after the Athletic Bilbao striker Rafael 'Pichichi' Moreno Aranzadi, goes to the top goalscorer in the division.

Lionel Messi posed for photos having collected the latest Alfredo Di Stefano award on Monday

The Barcelona star also picked up the Pichichi trophy which goes to La Liga's top goal scorer

Messi was presented with the trophies by Marca Director Juan Ignacio Gallardo and La Liga president Javier Tebas.

There were a host of familiar faces among the award winners which also included Atletico Madrid goalkeeper Jan Oblak.

The Argentine was inspired last season as on route to the title he scored 34 goals in 36 matches, adding 12 assists in the process.

La Liga president Javier Tebas (R) was one of the officials who presented Messi with the awards

All of the award winners, which includes Atletico Madrid goalkeeper Jan Oblak, stood together

Messi, a five-time Ballon d'Or winner, made an immediate impact on his return to the side netting twice but it proved in vein as Real Betis won 4-3 at the Nou Camp.

Ernesto Valverde's side have now split for the international break but face a tough task on their return when they will travel to play Atletico Madrid at the Wanda Metropolitano.

Barcelona lead rivals Real Madrid by just four points - Sevilla just one - at the top of La Liga and will hope Messi can rediscover the sensational form from last season to steady the ship.

====== 2552 ========

BOCA JUNIORS VS RIVER PLATE IN COPA LIBERTADORES WILL BE THE GAME OF THE WEEKEND

There might be anger on either side of the London divide when Tottenham and Chelsea meet this weekend, but it will be nothing compared to Saturday night's clash in Argentina.

River Plate and Boca Juniors will play the second leg of their Copa Libertadores final and it is guaranteed to be a cracker of a contest.

This is the two biggest rivals in a football-mad city playing in the South American equivalent of the Champions League final.

River Plate and Boca Juniors meet in the second leg of their Copa Libertadores final on Saturday evening in Argentina

Over 50,000 people turned up to watch Boca's open training session and the stadium has been shut down as a result

The entirety of Buenos Aires will be split between the two giants of Argentinian football when they meet on Saturday night

Thousands of Boca Juniors fans watch a training session of the team, from the stands of La Bombanera on Thursday evening

WATCHING BRIEF Kick-off: 8pm Where to watch: BT Sport 2/FreeSport

The two teams claim to represent 70 per cent of Argentina's football fans. They have already played the first leg but this pair of games is the only time in history that they have met at this stage of the competition.

'There are other finals that live on, but what happens between Boca and River is the best derby in the world, for people and for folklore,' former Argentina winger Daniel Bertoni told Goal.com.

The rivalry runs back to the early 20th century. Both teams were based in the Boca area — the docklands of Buenos Aires — until River moved to the affluent Nunez district. River became known as Los Millionarios (The Millionaires), and started taunting Boca over the odour of their area, calling them bosteros, or manure collectors.

It is clear that passions will run high on Saturday in what is known as the Superclasico. They already did on Thursday evening, when over 50,000 people turned up at La Bombanera, Boca's ground, to watch an open training session.

The second leg of the Copa Libertadores final will take place at El Monumental in Buenos Aires, the ground of River Plate

Fans produced an incredible atmosphere outside of the ground ahead of the first leg as their team bus departed the stadium

That figure exceeded the capacity of the ground and led to problems. The Buenos Aires city council have decided to close the stadium as a result.

'There were more people than suitable,' Boca president Daniel Angelici told the TyC Sports channel.

'Lots of people were left outside, we went too far and they have closed the stadium.'

Not that any of those in attendance at the open training session will be at Saturday's game. Away supporters have not been allowed at games in Argentina for the last five years, ever since an awful run of football-related deaths led to a ban in 2013.

It will be up to the River supporters to generate an atmosphere. El Monumental does not have the same reputation overseas as the Bombanera, but River's fans care just as much as their cross-city rivals when it comes to getting a win.

The game will be a battle between two distinct areas of Buenos Aires — Boca represent the docklands area of the city

River had origins in the same area but moved to the more affluent Nunez district and became known as Los Millionarios

'This is a very important match, we cannot lose,' said Vicente Zucala, a 29-year old blind fan of River Plate as part of a series of interviews by Reuters. 'If we lose, we're done, it will all be over.'

Byron Stuardo Alquijay, a 33-year-old fan from Guatemala added: 'River Plate for me is my life, my passion. I had to sell my car to come here. I might buy another car in the future but this match will never be repeated.'

The game is taken so seriously by supporters that Argentinian radio even offered up a solution for people with health problems. They had two versions of commentary from the first leg, with one presented in more soothing tones in order to avoid giving anyone listening in a heart attack.

River fan Maria Fe Diaz, whose father once had a heart attack during a Superclasico, admitted: 'Personally, I don't like the River-Boca matches. They are too stressful for me. I didn't want this match to happen. I don't know how I'm going to make it until Saturday.'

There will be no away supporters allowed at the game on Saturday night due to a ban on travelling fans in Argentinian football

A fan of Boca Juniors waves his team's flag during an open training session on Thursday evening, which descended into chaos

Even those involved in what will happen on the pitch have bought into the situation surrounding the game.

'We're going to give our lives to win,' said Boca's manager Guillermo Barros Schelotto ahead of the match. 'For this jersey, we're going to leave everything on the pitch.'

River Plate manager Marcelo Gallardo was not allowed on the touchline for the first leg due to a four-game ban. He believes he 'owes' a victory to the fans. He's also optimistic that the location of the game will have a part to play. 'We simply believe that our ground and our public will play in our favor in the return leg,' said Gallardo.

'The Superclasico between Boca and River is so important because the fans are so passionate,' said Cayetano Milon, a 51-year old Boca fan.

Supporters gathering outside the Bombanera on Thursday evening as they attempt to get into the training session

But the good news is that where the quality of South American football has dipped off in recent years — primarily due to the earlier drain of talent to Europe — the signs from the first leg are positive ahead of the second. This could be worth watching for the on-field action, for once.

River have the superior technical talent on the field but Boca's more brutal style means that this will be an interesting clash.

For European fans, there is a chance that Boca's Carlos Tevez, formerly of Manchester United, Manchester City and Juventus, might be involved, although it is more likely that the man known as the Apache will be on the bench at the start.

The contest is also finely balanced. The game at the Bombonera ended 2-2 with River twice responding to Boca taking the lead. It could go either way when they meet on the field.

So, all eyes should be on Buenos Aires on Saturday night. At least as long as your heart is in good shape.

====== 2553 ========

SKY BET EFL Q&A: TOM EAVES ON DREAMS OF PLAYING WITH ZINEDINE ZIDANE

Gillingham striker Tom Eaves scored the goal of the Sky Bet EFL season so far, juggling the ball on his left instep, switching it to his right before swivelling to strike the sweetest of volleys in his side's victory at League One leaders Portsmouth in October.

With it, the giant striker proved he is so much more than a target man, something he is keen to emphasise in this week's Sky Bet EFL Q&A.

The 26-year-old has flitted his way around seven clubs since starting out as a trainee at Oldham Athletic, but seems to have found a home in Kent, judging by his 28 goals in 48 league starts for Gillingham.

As a Liverpool fan, his boyhood hero was Robbie Fowler, he would loved to have played for Johan Cruyff and whisper it quietly, even at 6ft 5in, he is afraid of spiders.

Gillingham striker Tom Eaves scored the goal of the Sky Bet EFL season so far at Portsmouth

Describe yourself on the pitch in 3 words.

Aggressive. Clinical. Demanding.

Describe yourself off the pitch in 3 words.

Intelligent (without blowing my own trumpet!). Cultured. Easy-going.

Best moment of your career so far?

Making my league debut for Oldham when I was 18 (a week after his 18th birthday in January 2010). That was a really big moment for me. I was in the second year of my YTS. We were playing Millwall. We were hanging on in the game when the manager Dave Penney threw me on a substitute just to hold the ball up for the last 15 minutes and be a nuisance.

It was just a really good experience and something I won't forget. I had travelled with the first team a few times but never made the matchday squad. Then I'd been on the bench once or twice before that game. Then afterwards, I got brought on nearly every week. That game was the catalyst for me to start playing in the Football League and a big moment.

My mum and dad were there. Before I moved down to Gillingham, they very rarely missed a game. My dad still comes to a lot of the Gillingham matches even though he has to come from Liverpool for them. I've got my own loyal fan base there.

Who is the hardest opponent you have faced?

I've played against some big names, although I wouldn't necessarily say they were my hardest opponents. But I remember playing against David Unsworth towards the end of his career. That was a real reality check for me. I think I was 18 at the time. I remember leaving the pitch and I had claw marks all over my chest, like I'd been in with a wolf. He had moved to centre-half and he was a typical old-fashioned defender, really aggressive and threw me about the place.

If I remember right, I think he was playing for Huddersfield at the time. I just remember thinking: 'Wow, what a beast.' I was a scrawny 18-year-old and his legs must have been double me in size. It taught me what men's football was going to be like.

Most embarrassing moment in football?

I'm not sure I've had a really embarrassing moment in football … yet. Long may that continue.

I've missed a few open goals, but I try not to let them bother me that much. I don't lose sleep over them.

It's not major, but I think I may have called the gaffer (Steve Lovell) 'Mate' a few times when he's walked past me and said: 'Alright, Tom..' I haven't really seen who it was and just said: 'Alright, mate.' But nothing really on the pitch.

He has proved he is so much more than a target man, something he is keen to emphasise here

Which song gets you in the mood for a match?

I like 'Sympathy for the Devil' by the Rolling Stones, I like 'Whole Lotta Love' by Led Zeppelin and I don't mind a bit of Queen.

I've got a Spotify account in the car, so I'll play them on the way in for a match while I stop off for a double espresso before every game. And I'll be singing along to them full blast, full tilt with my missus not very impressed in the passenger seat.

What's your guilty food pleasure?

I'm actually very disciplined with my food, but I adore it. Ask anyone who knows me, they know how much I love food. During the week I'm pretty strict and disciplined, but I do have a soft spot for pastries. I really enjoy pastries - any type of doughnut or croissant or even pasties. Anything bread-based. I've got a sweet tooth for Squashies sweets, drumsticks, I love them. And I also love a good fry-up.

Ask the lads what I'm like in the summer. I'm not joking, I came back in the summer and I had put on about four kilos, but I got rid of it. That's what pre-season's for.

That's the thing - we're so disciplined all year and then you've got that time in the summer when you've got to cram everything in that you've not been able to have all year.

It's about finding that balance and allowing yourself to have little treats every now and again. I don't usually allow myself any treats if I haven't scored. It's a good incentive. After I scored that goal against Portsmouth recently, me and the missus stopped off at 'Turtle Bay' on the way back.

Which player in history would you like to play alongside - and why?

It probably wouldn't be another striker, it would be someone feeding me like Zinedine Zidane. That would be immense, playing alongside someone like him who you grew up watching. Or Steven Gerrard, playing alongside him in my home town of Liverpool especially. That would be pretty special.

I'm a big Liverpool fan and my favourite player growing up was Robbie Fowler. He was my hero, the one I watched and aspired to be like.

If I was playing with Steven Gerrard, it would be a case of: 'Just put it in the box for me, Stevie.'

Which famous manager would you have loved to play for - and why?

Johan Cruyff, just because of the way he revolutionised the game. I would have liked to have been there at Barcelona and seen the way he trained his team. You hear a lot of stories. You don't know how many are true, but you hear that he had them playing a lot of five-a-side and small box games. He was way ahead of his time really with regards to that stuff. As an athlete as well.

Would he have appreciated my style? I hope so. A lot of the time, being 6ft 5, you get branded with just being a big lumbering target man. On the opposite end of the spectrum, you get people who are told they are too small and can't compete.

I like to mix my game up and be as unpredictable as possible. I don't like to be boxed as one thing. I just like to express myself when I'm playing and under this manager (Lovell), he gives me the freedom to do that. I believe that's why I'm in the form that I'm in.

The goal against Portsmouth was just something that came to me. I reacted to the way the ball fell in front of me, but it was special, especially with that many people in the ground at Fratton Park. My dad sent me a video of the Portsmouth fans applauding the goal, which was quite flattering to see.

Eaves admits he would love to have played alongside either Zinedine Zidane of Steven Gerrard

What would you be if you weren't a footballer?

I'd like to think I'd be on stage somewhere. I would have loved to pursue an acting career because I've got a habit of dramatising everyday events as they happen to me. So maybe theatre.

Funnily enough, I actually had an acting lesson about four months ago as a gift from someone. It was hilarious because I didn't know what I was getting myself into. I met this guy downstairs in a pub. He was showing me his portfolio, videos of what he wanted me to do and we went through a few exercises. One of the exercises, he said: 'I want you to look directly through my face as if I'm not there.' I did it and no word of a lie, he said to me: 'You've got it.' I thought: 'If I've got it, I don't need any more acting lessons then.'

Tell us a secret that fans won't know…

I am currently teaching myself to play the piano, but I'll also say that I'm absolutely petrified of spiders. I've always been petrified of them.. I know I'm 6ft 5, but I've got no shame in telling you that.

When I was living in an apartment on my own a while back, I woke up and saw a spider that must have been four inches in diameter. I was probably 25 at the time, but I still had to ring my dad up to come and get it.

Centre-halves like David Unsworth? No problem, but put a spider in the room…

Sky Bet are the proud title sponsors of the EFL. For a wide range of markets and price boosts across EFL matches visit skybet.com.

====== 2554 ========

MANCHESTER UNITED BOSS JOSE MOURINHO HITS BACK AT IKER CASILLAS

Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho has hit back at Iker Casillas after the former Real Madrid goalkeeper attacked his style of management in a TV interview.

Casillas criticised Mourinho for creating a war-like atmosphere between eternal rivals Real Madrid and Barcelona.

And he admitted during an interview with former Argentina international Jorge Valdano he regretted staying silent and would now 'take the bull by the horns and confront' Mourinho if he could have his time again.

Jose Mourinho has hit back at Iker Casillas after he attacked his style of management

In a TV interview, Casillas said he would have liked to have confronted Mourinho at Madrid

Mourinho, who dropped Casillas halfway through the 2012-13 campaign after accusing him of leaking stories to the press, reacted by branding the shot-stopper as someone who is in the twilight of his career.

He said of Valdano's TV interview with Casillas, who left Real Madrid for Porto after being sidelined: 'It looks like an interview with someone who is at the end of his career.

'When he says he never confronted me he's not telling the truth.'

In quotes published by Portuguese sports daily Record he added: 'He confronted me and he did it in a way in which no-one does it better than him, secretly.'

The 37-year-old Spaniard, who made his first-team debut for boyhood club Real Madrid aged just 18 and was dubbed Saint Iker for his spectacular saves, has admitted he has no contact with the United manager.

However Mourinho claims Casillas did make his voice heard while they were at the Bernabeu

In recent weeks he has responded to the question marks over David de Gea's performances for the Spanish national side by admitting he would jump at the chance of an international recall.

Former coach Julen Lopetegui left him out of the Spain squad for the 2018 World Cup and new manager Luis Enrique has yet to call on him so he can add to his record 167 caps.

He told fans in October, after De Gea's perceived poor showing in Russia where Spain went out against the World Cup hosts: 'I understand Luis Enrique has new ideas for this new era, but I am still hopeful of a return.'

====== 2555 ========

BARCELONA IS TOO BIG FOR OUSMANE DEMBELE: FORMER BARCA AND REAL PLAYER BERND SCHUSTER

Former Barcelona and Real Madrid player Bernd Schuster believes Barcelona is too big a club for winger Ousmane Dembele.

Frenchman Dembele has struggled to make an impact since joining Barcelona from Borussia Dortmund in August 2017 for a fee that could rise to £131million.

He has also been criticised for turning up late for training and faced accusations of unprofessionalism in other areas.

Ousmane Dembele has struggled for real consistency since joining Barcelona in 2017

'There are some players who are good enough for Barcelona and some who are not, and you find that out from the start - it doesn't take three seasons,' said Schuster.

The 58-year-old spent eight seasons at the Nou Camp between 1980 and 1988, playing 170 league games and scoring 63 goals.

After this he joined arch rivals Real Madrid for two seasons before crossing the city to sign for Atletico Madrid.

The German went on to coach Real Madrid and is currently in charge of Chinese side Dalian Yifang.

'Barcelona is too big for Dembele. At Dortmund he had some great matches, but not that many.'

====== 2556 ========

STEVEN GERRARD EYES QUALITY IN THE JANUARY WINDOW AS HE AIMS TO KEEP HOLD OF RANGERS STARS

Steven Gerrard is keen to pull down the shutters on any January sales at Rangers - and insists he will target quality over quantity in terms of potential additions.

The Ibrox manager will discuss transfer plans with chairman Dave King when the two men sit down ahead of the club's AGM on Tuesday morning.

After making 15 signings to revamp the squad during the summer, Gerrard expects a quiet mid-season window and will only move if an ideal acquisition becomes available.

Steven Gerrard is keen to pull down the shutters on January sales at Rangers

Retaining talent could be just as big a priority. Captain James Tavernier is a long-term target for West Brom, while the form of 15-goal striker Alfredo Morelos may attract fresh interest.

Gerrard, though, is adamant that Rangers would only consider selling any of his key performers if an irresistible offer was put forward.

Asked if he would stress to King a wish to keep his team together, the 38-year-old replied: 'I've already done that. None of our players are available In January. But they all have a price. That never changes.

'We never stop looking to improve. In terms of January, I don't envisage many signings. It's difficult to say if it will be one or two, we'll have to wait and see, but we are looking.

'If that player becomes available in January then I will ask the board to support me on it. Is it about quality rather than quantity? Yes, for sure.

The form of Rangers' 15-goal striker Alfredo Morelos may attract fresh interest

'I always sit down with the chairman whenever he's over. We'll have a dinner together in the next couple of days.

'The chairman hasn't been over for a while, so we can talk about what's happened in the games just played.

'We are also coming up to a window and an AGM, so there will be a lot on the agenda and I'm really looking forward to the meal.'

Meanwhile, Gerrard hopes there will be Celtic fans inside Ibrox for the next Old Firm game on December 29. Parkhead chief executive Peter Lawwell revealed earlier this week that an allocation could be refused if he feels there are safety concerns.

'I don't think it will affect the fixture because there will still be an incredible atmosphere at Ibrox,' said Gerrard.

'That's Celtic's decision if they decide to do that. I hope they don't because I think big football matches and Old Firms are about both sets of fans and the banter and that type of stuff. If they decide not to, that is their decision.'

====== 2557 ========

JURGEN KLOPP INSISTS SADIO MANE'S NEW DEAL AT LIVERPOOL SHOWS THE CLUB'S PROGRESS

Jurgen Klopp believes Sadio Mane's new contract is a statement about the progress Liverpool have made.

The Senegal forward signed a long-term extension on Thursday and his commitment to the Reds has delighted his manager.

Klopp told a press conference: 'He's in the best years of his career. I'm really pleased, really happy that he's signed this contract.

Jurgen Klopp spoke at his press conference ahead of Liverpool's game against Watford

The Reds boss insisted that Sadio Mane's new contract shows the progress the club have made

'If a player is in a very good moment in his career and you can extend the contract, it's a statement. Happy about that and it shows a bit of the change the club did in the last few years.

'A few years ago, players in a really good moment they thought they had to leave the club to make the next step, and now our boys think they can make the next step here.'

Klopp's comments come just days after Egypt manager Javier Aguirre insisted that Mohamed Salah may leave Liverpool if they haven't won a trophy in the next two seasons.

When asked to respond to the claims, the Liverpool boss said: 'Who is manager of Egypt? Who is it? I'll try to be nice, hey?

Mane has signed a new long-term deal with Liverpool worth over £150,000 a week

Klopp also hit back at the Egypt manager over comments he made about Mohamed Salah (left)

'If he [Javier Aguirre] doesn't win a title in the next couple of years, he has to move to another club or another country, for sure. Obviously I don't agree with [his comments], but it's a free world and he can say whatever he wants.

'I shouldn't make any comments, so maybe we should delete what I said a minute ago,' he then joked.

Liverpool face Watford this weekend, and Klopp has a squad in good health ahead of the game.

Jordan Henderson is back fighting fit, and apart from Adam Lallana and long-term absentee Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, Liverpool have no other concerns.

====== 2558 ========

GARY LINEKER JOKES HE 'CAN’T KEEP ANYTHING UP THESE DAYS' IN BT SPORT ADVERT OUTTAKES

It's a well worn path from the football pitch to the BT Sport studio but most footballers-turned-pundits would still back themselves to roll back the years with the ball at their feet.

But as the outtakes for the new BT Sport advert involving Rio Ferdinand and Gary Lineker show, it is not always that easy. Especially when you're wearing a suit.

Ferdinand is filmed showing off his skills with the BT Sport production crew but when Lineker gets passed the ball, he fails to do a keepy-up.

BT's amusing new advert shows Gary Lineker failing to control the ball doing keepy-ups

Lineker looks clearly embarrassed by his failure to control the ball with people watching on

The outtakes, however, show that it wasn't just Lineker who struggled to produce his finest skills, much to the amusement of all concerned.

Ferdinand was caught on camera overhitting a pass after performing some keepy-ups of his own.

Lineker also messed up his practice keep-ups and joked 'I can't keep anything up these days'.

BT Sport pundit Rio Ferdinand looks at Lineker and says 'you were a good player before'

But the outtakes also show that Lineker wasn't the only one to make a mistake with the ball

The two also repeatedly burst into laughter when filming the closing scene where Ferdinand looks at Lineker and says 'you were a good player before.'

Lineker will be back hosting Match of the Day this weekend with the Premier League resuming after the international break.

BT, meanwhile, will show Saturday's late kick-off between Tottenham and Chelsea.

====== 2559 ========

EDDIE HOWE HOPEFUL JOSHUA KING WILL RETURN TO ACTION AGAINST ARSENAL

Bournemouth striker Joshua King could provide boss Eddie Howe with a major boost by returning to action in Sunday's home Premier League game against Arsenal.

Norway international King has been sidelined for a month and will be assessed after missing the Cherries' last four games due to an ankle injury.

'Joshua King has improved and trained with the group and we'll be excited if he is fit,' Howe told a press conference.

Eddie Howe says Joshua King has trained with the group and they will 'be excited if he is fit'

Joshua King and Callum Wilson have formed a good partnership at Bournemouth this season

'We're a lot better than we were after the Newcastle game, when we had a number of players with knocks.

'The (international) break has given us the chance to nurse our players and we'll look at them all and assess their fitness ahead of Sunday.'

King will be hoping to resume his partnership with Callum Wilson after the pair started in all of the Cherries' first 10 league games this season.

They have bagged 10 league goals between them and Wilson marked his full England debut last week by scoring in their friendly win against the United States.

'I'm very pleased for all of our international guys,' Howe said. 'We watched them all very closely.

'There were so many priceless moments. Jack Simpson's (England) Under-21s debut, Ryan Fraser's first (Scotland) goal and Callum Wilson's goal.'

Adam Smith is a definite absentee against the Gunners as Bournemouth bid to put back-to-back league defeats behind them after their impressive start to the season.

The full-back sustained a knee injury in the 2-1 defeat at Newcastle before the international break and is set for a prolonged spell on the sidelines.

Joshua King received an ankle injury while on international duty for Norway against Slovenia

Howe's side had won six of their first 10 league games before successive defeats to Manchester United and Newcastle and sit sixth in the table.

Arsenal are four points and one place ahead of them while their rapid progress under Unai Emery has been checked by three straight Premier League draws.

'I think on paper this weekend's game is set up to be a very good game,' Howe added.

'Arsenal have outstanding attacking players and a good look about their team, it will be a tough game.

'If one to 11 we are very good, then we can do well. It will be an interesting game to see which attack comes out on top and it will be a great battle for our defenders as well.'

====== 2560 ========

MARK HUGHES UNFAZED BY SACK TALK AS STRUGGLING SOUTHAMPTON FACE FULHAM

Mark Hughes is unfazed by speculation surrounding his future as Southampton manager.

Sportsmail reported that the Welshman will be sacked if his side lose at Fulham on Saturday. Southampton have won just once this season and are above the relegation zone on goal difference.

After seven straight defeats, Fulham sacked Slavisa Jokanovic during the international break, installing Claudio Ranieri as his replacement.

Mark Hughes is unfazed by speculation surrounding his future as Southampton manager

'There will always be speculation and I call it noise,' said Hughes. 'Once a manager departs after a lot of noise that noise switches to someone else and all the negative stats come out.

'A little bit of the noise is around me at the moment which is the nature of the role that I have. It will go away with a few good results.

'It becomes a little bit predictable and you understand how it works. After 20 years doing this job, it's nothing I haven't seen and dealt with before. It's part of the job and doesn't faze me.

'We're calm, that's the key. That's helped by my demeanour. I don't feel the need to get panicked because I'm confident in the ability of the group and the club.'

The club are conducting a review after the departure of former vice-chairman Les Reed (r)

The club are conducting an internal review after the departures of former vice-chairman Les Reed and technical director Martin Hunter earlier this month.

'There's not a lot we're doing wrong here,' Hughes added. 'The club felt that maybe we just needed to just be a little bit more open about a few certain things. It's not about ripping things up and throwing the baby out with the bat water. We're not at that point.

'The club is sound. A lot of good work has been done here over a good period, which will enable this club to prosper. We just need to get over this bump in the road and we'll be fine.'

Top scorer Danny Ings is struggling with a hamstring injury and may feature from the bench.

====== 2561 ========

NEAL ARDLEY APPOINTED MANAGER OF LEAGUE TWO SIDE NOTTS COUNTY

Neal Ardley, who was sacked by AFC Wimbledon on November 12, has been appointed the new manager of Notts County.

The 46-year-old takes over from Harry Kewell, who was relieved of his duties a day later after just 10 weeks in charge of the League Two side.

Ardley managed to keep AFC Wimbledon in the Football League on the final day of the 2012-13 season and faces a similar battle to help County, who are 23rd in League Two, avoid relegation.

Neal Ardley has been appointed manager of Notts County, who sit 23rd in League Two

The former Wimbledon and Millwall player will be joined by his AFC Wimbledon assistant Neil Cox and is excited at the challenge ahead of him.

'There are few clubs who could have tempted me into such a quick return to management following what was obviously an emotional departure from Wimbledon, a club I love dearly,' Ardley said.

'But the chance to manage Notts County is one I couldn't let pass and I will come back from my break fully refreshed and determined to drive us up the table.'

The club have confirmed that current caretaker manager Steve Chettle will remain in charge for their next two matches.

County owner and chairman Alan Hardy believes Ardley can help the Nottingham club avoid relegation to the National League.

The 46-year-old manager was sacked by League One outfit AFC Wimbledon on November 12

'Having enjoyed very productive discussions with Neal and following close consultation with the board and key staff, I am very confident we have selected the right man to deliver our short and long-term targets,' Hardy said.

'Our biggest priority is preserving our proud status as the world's oldest Football League club and in Neal we have someone who knows what it takes to survive.

'Neither he nor I are under any illusions it's going to be easy but we are both confident of achieving this very important aim.

'Beyond that, Neal has demonstrated an ability to win promotion from Sky Bet League Two and sustain a club at a higher level. I hope, in time, he will be able to deliver the same for us.

'As I have come to learn all too well, football is a suffocating environment. Neal gave absolutely everything to Wimbledon in his six years as their manager and is deservedly enjoying a family holiday which he'll be cutting short in order to join us in the middle part of next week.'

====== 2562 ========

CHELSEA FORWARD EDEN HAZARD SAYS THE BALLON D'OR 'IS NOT A GOAL' FOR HIM

Eden Hazard is not prioritising winning the Ballon d'Or.

The Chelsea forward had an impressive World Cup, captaining Belgium as they reached the semi-final stage of the competition and has impressed with his club since the season began.

He has scored eight goals and provided four assists while working under Maurizio Sarri.

Chelsea forward Eden Hazard has insisted he is not targeting winning the Ballon d'Or

The Belgian has also said that there are other players who are more deserving of it

Hazard was shortlisted for the honour last month, but he believes that it is Paris Saint-Germain's young star Kylian Mbappe who deserves to take it.

'Even though I had a very good year, I have to keep my feet on the ground,' Hazard told RTFB.

'I do not deserve the Ballon d'Or. I think there are players who have been better than me.

He said that he would pick Paris Saint-Germain's young star Kylian Mbappe to win the award

'Winning the Ballon d'Or is not a goal for me. If I win it one day, great. If I do not, it won't be a problem.

'I would have said Luka Modric but he has played a little less well since August and September.

'So, if we take into account the beginning of the season, I would say Kylian Mbappe.'

Hazard and his Chelsea team-mates will take on Tottenham Hotspur in the Premier League on Saturday as they return to action following the international break.

====== 2563 ========

JURGEN KLOPP INSISTS FABINHO WILL REMAIN A LIVERPOOL PLAYER

Jurgen Klopp has shot down suggestions he is prepared to sell Fabinho as he insisted the Brazil midfielder is ready to become a major influence in the most frenzied part of the season.

Fabinho took time to adjust to life at Anfield following his £43.7million move from Monaco and did not make his first start until September 26, when Liverpool were beaten 2-1 by Chelsea in the Carabao Cup. He did, though, become a more regular starter before the international break.

That did not stop reports emerging that Fabinho is not settled on Merseyside and he was linked with a move to Juventus ahead of the January transfer window.

Fabinho joined Liverpool for £43.7million in the summer and has had a slow stat to Anfield life

When asked about his plans for Fabinho, Klopp gave the implication he wanted to offload Liverpool's No 3 short shrift.

Klopp said: 'He's settled, yes. He played three of the last four, no? He played, he did well. Now the most intense period of the year is coming up. He used the time to adjust to what we want, which was really good in the last games he played.

'Of course he will not leave. I don't talk about transfers but if anybody asks then nobody leaves here.

'That would be completely crazy. He doesn't want to, it's just the crazy world out there where if a player doesn't play in the last five games, you open kind of a transfer market. We are not involved in that.'

Jurgen Klopp insists he is happy with Fabinho's contribution so far and believes more will come

Liverpool face Watford on Saturday and this will be the first match Sadio Mane has played since agreeing a new deal that will keep him at Anfield until the summer of 2023.

Klopp is delighted with the business and believes the Senegal international can take his performance level to new heights.

'We all expect these boys to be finished in their development pretty early in their life,' said Klopp, who will be without Adam Lallana for the trip to Vicarage Road.

'But he's coming up to the best years of his career and he did really well without acknowledging it.

'I'm really pleased, really happy about the fact he's signed this contract. It's really a big signing. If a player is in a very good moment in his career and you can extend the contract, it's more than just a signing, it's a statement. I'm happy about that.

'It shows a bit of the change the club made in the last few years. A few years ago it constantly happened that players in a very good moment thought they had to leave the club to make the next step. Now our boys obviously think they can make the next step here. That's good.'

====== 2564 ========

HOW DO YOU MAKE TOMMY FLEETWOOD ANY COOLER? BY MAKING HIM LOOK LIKE MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ!

With his shaggy hair, fashionable beard and happy-go-lucky demeanour on the course - not to mention his dynamite game - Tommy Fleetwood is fast becoming the coolest golfer around.

Indeed, he might one day usurp the man who has long worn that crown: the cigar-smoking, red-wine-drinking, dodgy-warm-upping Miguel Angel Jimenez.

True to character, the 'most interesting man in golf' doesn't appear bothered. In fact, he gave Fleetwood a helping hand to becoming even cooler - by giving him a new hairstyle... his own.

Tommy Fleetwood is given a new hairstyle by Miguel Angel Jimenez in Hong Kong

Jimenez grabbed Fleetwood's hair, wrapped it round and added a band

The result was making Fleetwood look just like him! (They both seemed happy with the result)

The pair are in Hong Kong this week for the European Tour event at Fanling, with Fleetwood inside the top five at the halfway stage. But while Jimenez has missed the cut he cheered himself up by having some fun with his English chum.

Grabbing hold of Fleetwood's locks, Jimenez pulled up the back, wrapped it round and added a hairband, giving him a ponytail - the flamboyant Spaniard's own signature hairstyle.

The pair then posed for photos afterwards, and Fleetwood appeared delighted with the results.

The pair are playing in the Hong Kong Open this week - with Jimenez wearing his ponytail

Fleetwood has enjoyed a meteoric rise in the last two years, becoming European No 1 in 2017, challenging for majors, picking up victories and, unforgettably, winning four out of four matches alongside Francesco Molinari at this year's Ryder Cup in Paris, forging the 'Moliwood' partnership.

He does, however, still have some way to go to matching many of Jimenez's career achievements, which include 30 wins around the world, top-10s in all four majors and four Ryder Cup appearances.

At the age of 27, Fleetwood does have time on his side; and with Jimenez still competitive at 54, could this new friendship find its way onto the course as the coolest match play partnership in golf?

Let's stop there before Molinari gets too jealous.

====== 2565 ========

IT'S A DIFFERENT BALL GAME... BUT GEMMA FAY IS STILL PLAYING BY HER OWN RULES

It was a lesson in life passed down from grandmother to mother and then to daughter. ‘I always remember my mum telling me when I was young: “Reach for the stars and then go some more”. Her mum had told her the same. It was their way of saying: “Don’t settle for what you have, there is always more you can achieve, more you can have”.’

The speaker is Gemma Fay, now 36. The ‘reach’ aspect is prescient as she was Scotland’s goalkeeper for the best part of 20 years. The desire for more can be gauged by the accumulation of 203 caps by Fay before her retiral last year. It can also be illustrated by her approach to her post at Scottish Rugby as head of women’s and girls’ rugby.

With her road having led from a Perthshire countryside upbringing, through an extraordinary international career and a professional life spent mostly with sportscotland, Fay’s ascent can seem as effortless as a lazy stretch for the stars.

Gemma Fay, now 36, was Scotland’s goalkeeper for the best part of 20 years

However, the relaxed beginnings of playing with her brothers soon met a harsher reality in international playing grounds.

‘My dad made football goals in the back garden and when I was about five I was stuck in goals, not through choice. My three brothers sort of pushed me in there,’ says Fay.

She played for GSC St Johnstone, earning her first break when she was 15 and the regular goalkeeper was on holiday, forcing her to take the gloves.

Fay started her international career at 16 and accumulated 203 caps with Scotland

‘I had played in goals for the Under-13s but I usually played outfield for the Under-16s. This was an Under-18 match and I must have played all right that day because a Scotland scout was there and asked me to go for a trial,’ she says.

There was no immediate happy conclusion.

‘I failed,’ she says simply. A measure of her character is immediately poured out: ‘It just made me want to prove them wrong. I am a stubborn sort of person.’

This cussedness was rewarded with a call-up to the national squad quickly afterwards.

‘Yes, I was still 15 when I joined the A squad. I was too young to play in FIFA qualifiers. I missed a trip to Brazil because of that,’ she says.

She was soon travelling in the fast lane and made her debut at 16.

This says much about the state of women’s football then and the resilience and talent of the teenage Fay. This was an embryonic sport with a callow goalkeeper. It was in those times that the words of her mother, Catriona, came often to her mind.

‘There was a lot of stuff that people said that wasn’t great,’ she says. ‘I grew up in the international game, so that means I grew up making mistakes in international games.

‘You wouldn’t put an international goalkeeper in at that age now. I was the best we had at the time but I was very young. It was tough for me.

‘There are goalkeepers now starting their international career at 25. I started nine years before that. They can make their mistakes in the relative obscurity of club football. I found it tough going.’

Lee Alexander, who took over from Fay after Scotland played in the Euros last year, was 26 when she graduated into the national first team.

‘It is an amazing set-up now,’ says Fay. ‘The game has progressed so much in this country in the past 20 years. It is a completely professional and well-run operation.

‘I suppose we were the trailblazers and that can be a bit challenging. It was exciting at first but when I was 17, 18, I struggled a wee bit. Again, though, I am stubborn…’

Women’s rugby in Scotland is at the beginning of the road, much like Fay’s early days in the football team. But it has grasped its opportunities quickly, perhaps learning from its football cousins. Many of the foundations are firmly in place.

Scotland play Canada on Tuesday at Scotstoun Stadium, with school finals preceding the big match. SP Energy Networks sponsor the national side, who also will have their Six Nations matches broadcast by BBC Alba.

Fay, honed by the round ball game, has ambitions for the oval variety.

‘My message to every girl and woman in Scotland would be that rugby is a game for all,’ she says. ‘It is a growing game that is accessible to everybody. There are different positions that offer different opportunities that may be ideal for girls who are not suited to other sports.’

She addresses parents’ concern over injuries by saying: ‘Player welfare is at the centre of everything we do. That’s paramount. If the game is played well and coached well, it is a very safe sport.’

Fay brings a simple focus with regards to the national team.

‘I want them to qualify for the World Cup,’ she says of the tournament in New Zealand in 2021. ‘And I believe they will and can do well in the tournament.’

Qualification rests on performances in the next two Six Nations.

‘My ambition is to give these girls the best opportunity of getting to New Zealand. Once they get there, they will treasure that experience,’ she says. Fay’s swansong, of course, for the national football team was in the Euros last year in the Netherlands.

This belief in sport as a life experience is central to Fay’s philosophy. ‘Sport is great for mental and physical health and social satisfaction. You are not only competing against others, you are competing against yourself,’ she adds.

‘I always say to young girls that they must enjoy their rugby. I ask them: “What makes you happy? Does playing rugby make you happy? Does playing better make you happier?” That is for them to experience.’

This evangelical streak has been imbued in Fay through experience at the highest level of women’s football. ‘You can become a better person though sports,’ she says. ‘It has made me a better person throughout my life.’

But how? ‘In sport, you can’t hide. You have to be honest with yourself and honest with your team-mates,’ she says. ‘In other areas of society, that seems a hard thing to do but in sport you are forced into doing that.

‘If you make a mistake, you must put your hand up. You must assess yourself constantly so you can become better. If a team-mate makes a mistake you must be honest, too.

‘You take those kinds of skills, that ability to have an open, frank discussion, and transfer that across to different aspects of your life. Those are great skills to develop.’

She is aware, too, that certain positions hold higher risks. ‘The one thing I learned as a goalkeeper is that if I made a mistake, it is a goal,’ she adds. ‘But the ball has to go through ten players before it gets to me. So others have made mistakes, too. You can’t dwell on your personal mistake. You might as well be subbed. You must focus and concentrate on the next challenge. It’s how you react that is important.’

She has taken this belief into Scottish Rugby. ‘I didn’t have a history in rugby but I was welcomed because of my experience on the sports field and off,’ she says.

The father, Alan, who built those goalposts 30 years looks on proudly. Her mother, though, died before seeing her daughter reach 200 caps.

‘That was a great regret,’ she says. But is her mother’s mantra reaching yet another generation? ‘Absolutely,’ says Fay.

The gloves have been put away but she is still stretching.

====== 2566 ========

DINA ASHER-SMITH DETERMINED TO FOCUS ON ATHLETICS ABOVE COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS

Dina Asher-Smith has put a blanket ban on commercial engagements that interfere with her training as she steps up her pursuit of major medals.

The 22-year-old has seen her profile rocket since winning a hat-trick of gold medals at the European Championships in August, and has been tipped to earn into seven figures on the build-up to Tokyo 2020.

However the sprinter, who on Friday collected an award for the British Athletics Writers' Association female athlete of the year, was adamant she will not alter a single session to accommodate media or sponsorship work.

Dina Asher-Smith has enjoyed a succeesful year but is determined to earn more success

It is understood that will extend to skipping next month's IAAF athlete of the year awards, at which she is nominated for best female of 2018.

She said: 'It's quite simple. I have a big obsession this year. I won't miss training sessions. If anything clashes with training I say, "Sorry I can't go".

'I get invited to do nice things because I run fast. But how do I run fast? By training. I am an athlete first and foremost and I definitely know what side my bread is buttered.'

Performance director Neil Black admitted Asher-Smith would have to juggle her commitments

The 4x100m relay was one of three European Championship gold medals won by the sprinter

British Athletics performance director Neil Black admitted juggling her commitments could be a 'test' for Asher-Smith going into 2019, when she will contest the world championships after a winter in which she is unlikely to feature prominently on the indoor circuit.

He said: 'I think the awards that are coming are a reflection of people's understanding of how not only that she has stepped up in performance level but how she is managing a very complicated world that she is now functioning in.

'There is great interest in her as a person, appearances, awards, which are brilliant but they are also distractions.

'Almost the next level of test is can she carry on managing as well when the interest becomes greater and the requests become greater? She has then got to protect herself from being distracted from the key focus of winning medals and the world championships.'

====== 2567 ========

GREGOR TOWNSEND HAS TO KEEP THE KIDS UNDER CONTROL AND LET THEM KNOW WHEN THEY CAN PLAY

Gregor Townsend was a courageous player. He was always looking to try new things and push the boundaries of whatever game plan we had.

Where the fearlessness kicked in, though, was that he didn't just attempt these things in training, he would do them in a match.

The selection for Saturday's encounter with Argentina would suggest this trait has followed him into his coaching career.

Gregor Townsend has shown he is willing to make big decisions during autumn internationals

With five minutes to go against Fiji, the game won and his team playing really well, Gregor decided to put on Adam Hastings at 10 and move Finn Russell to 12. It was a good call and the right one when they combined beautifully to give Hastings his first try at Murrayfield. There is no doubt it looked like an exciting combination, but was it one I expected to see start a game anytime soon? Probably not. But, for a moment, I clearly forgot about how fearless and brave Townsend can be.

Scotland's attack in the last two games has performed well, playing with good shape and tempo, driven by having two playmakers at 10 and 12 in Russell and Pete Horne. They have been a good pairing but Gregor is thinking he might need options, so he wants to see if what Hastings and Russell produced against Fiji was the real thing or not.

There's really only one place to find this out and that's at a sold-out Murrayfield.

Townsend made right call to put on Adam Hastings at 10 and move Finn Russell against Fiji

Of course, there's a world of difference between combining well for a try against a beaten and tired Fiji side and running an international from the first whistle. It's not the first time Russell has played at inside centre, however. He played there for Scotland Under 20s with Tommy Allen - now playing for Italy - at stand-off and Mark Bennett at outside centre.

So much traffic comes down that 10-12 channel that defence is key and Russell has no issue here as he is a very under-estimated defender.

The area of the game that Scotland need to get right is game management. They need to play the right way at the right time in the right areas of the pitch, something we didn't always do in the defeat to South Africa.

When it's right, Scotland have one of the most potent attacks in world rugby, the Pete Horne try being a great example of this. But we need to be better at knowing when to go all-out attack and when to slow things down and be more pragmatic.

Hastings and Russell's first instinct is to attack, from anywhere, so the man inside them, Greig Laidlaw, has a huge role to play. He has the rugby brain and nous to know when it's on.

He holds the key to the toy cupboard and he must decide when to let the youngsters get to play with all their toys.

That is some task for Laidlaw as this must be the most attack-minded back-line I've seen in a Scotland team. Outside him, everyone wants to play, everyone wants to attack, it won't be just Hastings and Russell, it will be Huw Jones, Blair Kinghorn, Sean Maitland and Stuart Hogg. Laidlaw will be like the dad with six kids all wanting to get into the playroom and play with all their toys all the time. He'll need to work hard to keep control and then let them free to create magic when it's the right time.

I would imagine the team will have worked very hard on their technique at the breakdown in training. South Africa managed to get 12 turnovers there and that is, ultimately, what cost Scotland the game.

Argentina can be very competitive in this area - most teams are these days - but they are not as imposing as the Springboks and that will help.

It's testament to the strength in depth Scotland now have that Gregor can make eight changes and still put out a very strong team. I like the look of the balance of the back row with Josh Strauss, returning at No8 after some time away, alongside Jamie Ritchie and Hamish Watson. Stauss gives Scotland 'go forward' and will do the hard yards needed to get them attacking from front-foot ball.

It's vitally important to finish the autumn series with a victory to take some momentum into the Six Nations.

I expect this to happen but I'd love to see it combined with Scotland playing with control and variety, managing the game well, playing in the right areas and then, when it's on, unleashing the kids to let them play with all their toys. Then they can produce the scintillating rugby of which we know they are capable.

====== 2568 ========

RUGBY WORLD CUP 2019 POOLS, FIXTURES, DATES, KICK-OFF TIMES AND CHANNEL

We now have our 20 teams to compete in the 2019 Rugby World Cup in Japan after Canada beat Hong Kong to be named the final team for the pool stage.

England are in pool C and will face tough competition for a Rugby World Cup knockout stage spot from France and Argentina with only two teams able to move forward.

Sportsmail provide you with everything you need to know for Rugby World Cup 2019 including pool fixtures, date, kick-off time and channel.

Rugby World Cup final will take place on 2nd November as two teams battle for this trophy

When is it?

The Rugby World Cup 2019 in Japan kicks-off on Friday 20th September and the final takes place on Saturday 2nd November.

How to watch Rugby World Cup in the UK

All matches will be broadcasted by ITV who have covered the Rugby World Cup since 2011 and will continue until 2023 for France Rugby World Cup.

Rugby World Cup 2019 pools and rankings

Pool A teams and ranks IRELAND (2) SCOTLAND (7) JAPAN (11) RUSSIA (19) SAMOA (16)

Pool B teams and ranks NEW ZEALAND (1) SOUTH AFRICA (5) ITALY (14) NAMIBIA (23) CANADA (21)

Pool C teams and ranks ENGLAND (4) FRANCE (8) ARGENTINA (9) USA (13) TONGA (12)

Pool D teams and ranks AUSTRALIA (6) WALES (3) GEORGIA (15) FIJI (10) URUGUAY (18)

Rugby World Cup 2019 fixtures:

Pool A fixtures and kick-off times (BST)

Teams: Ireland, Scotland, Japan, Russia, Samoa

Fri 20 Sep - Japan vs Russia (Tokyo) - KO 11.45am

Sun 22 Sep - Ireland vs Scotland (Yokohama) - KO 8.45am

Tue 24 Sep - Russia vs Samoa - (Kumagaya) - KO 11.15am

Sat 28 Sep Japan vs Ireland (Shizuoka) - KO 8.15am

Mon 30 Sep Scotland vs Samoa (Kobe) - KO 11.15am

Thu 3 Oct Ireland vs Russia (Kobe) - KO 11.15am

Sat 5 Oct Japan vs Samoa (Toyota) - KO 11.30am

Wed 9 Oct Scotland vs Russia (Shizuoka) - KO 8.15am

Sat 12 Oct Ireland vs Samoa (Fukuoka) - KO 11.45am

Sun 13 Oct Japan vs Scotland (Yokohama) - KO 11.45am

Pool B fixtures and kick-off times (BST)

Teams: New Zealand, South Africa, Italy, Namibia, Repechage winner

Saturday 21 September - New Zealand vs South Africa (Yokohama) - KO 10.45am

Sunday 22 September - Italy vs Namibia (Osaka) - KO 6.15am

Thursday 26 September - Italy vs Canada (Fukuoka) - KO 8.45am

(Fukuoka) - KO 8.45am Saturday 28 September - South Africa vs Namibia (Toyota) - KO 10.45am

Wednesday 2 October - New Zealand vs Canada (Oita) - KO 11.15am

(Oita) - KO 11.15am Friday 4 October - South Africa vs Italy (Shizuoka) - KO 10.45am

Sunday 6 October - New Zealand vs Namibia (Tokyo) - KO 5.45am

Tuesday 8 October - South Africa vs Canada (Kobe) - KO 11.15am

(Kobe) - KO 11.15am Saturday 12 October - New Zealand vs Italy (Toyota), 5.45am

Sunday 13 October - Namibia vs Canada (Kamaishi) - KO 4.15am

Pool C fixtures and kick-off times (BST)

Teams: England, France, Argentina, USA, Tonga

Saturday 21 September - France vs Argentina (Tokyo) - KO 8.15am

Sunday 22 September - England vs Tonga (Sapporo) - KO 11.15am

Thursday 26 September - England vs USA (Kobe) - KO 11.45am

Saturday 28 September - Argentina vs Tonga (Osaka) - KO 5.45am

Wednesday 2 October - France vs USA (Fukuoka) - KO 8.45am

Saturday 5 October - England vs Argentina (Tokyo) - KO 9.00am

Sunday 6 October - France vs Tonga (Kumamoto) - KO 8.45am

Wednesday 9 October - Argentina vs USA (Kumagaya) - KO 5.45am

Saturday 12 October - England vs France (Yokohama) - KO 9.15am

Sunday 13 October - USA vs Tonga (Osaka) - KO 6.45am

POOL D fixtures and kick-off times (BST)

Teams: Australia, Wales, Georgia, Fiji, Uruguay

Saturday 21 September - Australia vs Fiji (Sapporo) - KO 5.45am

Monday 23 September - Wales vs Georgia (Toyota) - KO 11.15am

Wednesday 25 September - Fiji vs Uruguay (Kamaishi)- KO 6.15am

Sunday 29 September - Georgia vs Uruguay (Kumagaya) - KO 6.15am

Sunday 29 September - Australia vs Wales (Tokyo) - KO 8.45am

Thursday 3 October - Georgia vs Fiji (Osaka) - KO 6.15am

Saturday 5 October - Australia vs Uruguay (Oita) - KO 6.15am

Wednesday 9 October - Wales vs Fiji (Oita) - KO 10.45am

Friday 11 October - Australia vs Georgia - (Shizuoka) - KO 11.15am

Sunday 13 October - Wales vs Uruguay (Kumamoto) - KO 9.15am

Knockout stage fixtures and kick-off times:

Quarter-Finals

Saturday 19 October:

Winner Pool C vs Runner-up Pool D (Oita) - KO 8:15am (BST)

Winner Pool B vs Runner-up Pool A (Tokyo) - KO 11:15am (BST)

Sunday 20 October:

Winner Pool D vs Runner-up Pool C (Oita) - KO 8:15am (BST)

Winner Pool A vs Runner-up Pool B (Tokyo) - KO 11:15am (BST)

Semi-Finals

Saturday 26 October:

Winner Quarter-Final 1 vs Winner Quarter-Final 2 (Yokohama) - KO 9:00am (BST)

Sunday 27 October:

Winner Quarter-Final 3 vs Winner Quarter-Final 4 (Tokyo) - KO 9:00am (GMT)

Bronze Final

Friday 1 November:

Loser Semi-Final 1 vs Loser Semi-Final 2 (Tokyo) - KO 9:00am (GMT)

Rugby World Cup Final

Saturday 2 November:

====== 2569 ========

NEWCASTLE 16-8 BATH: TOBY FLOOD SHINES AS FALCONS CLAIM BIG WIN TO MOVE OFF BOTTOM

Newcastle climbed off the bottom of the Gallagher Premiership with a hard-fought 16-8 victory over Bath at Kingston Park.

Falcons captain Toby Flood kicked three penalties and converted a Johnny Williams try as Newcastle edged the visitors in a tight second half to collect four precious points.

Newcastle made a bright start with early running from Simon Hammersley combining with a rumbling Gary Graham and then Williams offloaded for Sinoti Sinoti to charge up the right wing. Bath conceded a fifth-minute penalty at the ruck infield and Toby Flood made it 3-0.

Toby Flood kicked three penalties and a conversion as Newcastle edged out Bath on Friday

Johnny Williams also scored a try in a tightly-contested match to help them win the four points

Bath had much the better of the rest of the half and looked have scored when they kicked a penalty to the corner and drove skipper Matt Garvey over but they were penalised for a clear obstruction.

Semesa Rokoduguni spilled a great chance down the right when Will Chudley broke from a scrum inside his own half and left the Falcons back row trailing - the winger knew it was a real opportunity.

Newcastle's inability to retain the ball cost them when Nathan Catt snapped up a knock on and slick passing from Darren Atkins and Cooper Vuna sent in Ruaridh McConnochie for a 27th minute try in the left half corner to give his side a 5-3 lead.

Ruaridh McConnochie scored a try to give Bath an early lead after some slick build-up play

A Bath player tries to close down Sam Stuart (left) as he looks to punt the ball up field

Just before half-time it was Newcastle's turn to spurn a kick at goal and go to the corner - but it was not the expected line-out drive but a superbly-executed ball off the top from Glen Young for Sam Smith to send Williams surging in for under the posts. Flood converted for 10-5 at the break - a lead Newcastle were slightly fortunate to have.

A 46th minute penalty from Atkins cut the lead to 10-8 after heavy Bath pressure on the Falcons line and Flood missed one eight minutes later - but it sparked a flurry of Falcons attacks which led to a tip tackle on Flood by Josh Bayliss, a yellow card for the flanker and three points from the boot of Flood to make it 13-8 in the 57th minute.

He added another in the 69th minute to make it 16-8 following a line-out infringement and there was a hint of desperation in the Bath ranks as they knocked on a promising attack and then conceded a penalty at the scrum.

The score gave Newcastle a two-score advantage and they were able to run down the clock in the dying minutes.

====== 2570 ========

WORCESTER 20-13 HARLEQUINS: SPIRITED WARRIORS SEE OFF QUINS FOR THIRD PREMIERSHIP WIN

Worcester picked up four valuable Gallagher Premiership points with a hard-fought 20-13 victory over Harlequins in a disappointing game at Sixways.

Worcester's tries came from Nick Schonert and Ryan Mills, with Duncan Weir converting both and kicking a penalty. Chris Pennell also added a penalty.

Joe Marchant scored an interception try for Harlequins which James Lang converted and kicked a penalty, with Marcus Smith also succeeding with a penalty.

Worcester Warriors secured a third Premiership victory with a spirited defensive display

Harlequins dominated the early changes and were rewarded by taking an eighth minute lead when Smith knocked over a simple penalty.

Weir levelled the scores with a more difficult kick but the visitors remained the better side in the opening quarter. They had the lion's share of possession and territory to look dangerous in the outside channels with the hosts struggling to gain a foothold in the game.

Smith missed a penalty so it was 3-3 at the end of an uneventful first quarter in which the Warriors did not come close to entering the opposition 22.

Centre Joe Marchant scored an interception try for Harlequins on Friday night

Worcester lost Weir to a blood injury with Jamie Shillcock introduced but the replacement was badly off target with a straightforward penalty attempt.

Bryce Heem enlivened proceedings with a determined burst but Warriors could not capitalise as they lost the ball at the breakdown but at least it raised the home side from their slumbers.

Weir returned in time to see Worcester take the lead when Schonert finished off a driving line-out. Weir converted, then Smith missed another penalty before Pennell fired over a superb kick from halfway to leave Quins trailing 13-3 at the end of a poor first half.

The visitors made two changes at the interval with Smith and Matt Symons departing to be replaced by Lang and Ben Glynn. Eight minutes later, Danny Care was brought on in place of Charlie Mulchrone in an attempt to provide some spark in Quins' attack.

The changes did not have any immediate impact on the standard of the play as both sides frittered away possession with erratic passing and aimless kicking.

Quins threw on more substitutes in Francis Saili and David Ward and they were rewarded with their first try when Marchant picked off a Weir pass before running 50 metres and score.

Lang's conversion made it 13-10 to Warriors at the end of the third quarter before the home side produced their best move of the match, which ended with Mills forcing his way over.

Weir converted and two minutes from time Lang kicked a penalty to secure his side a bonus point.

====== 2571 ========

ROBIN GOODFELLOW'S RACING TIPS: BEST BETS FOR SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 24

Sportsmail's racing expert Goodfellow dishes out his tips ahead of Saturday's meetings at Haydock, Ascot, Huntingdon, Lingfield and Wolverhampton.

Take MIGHT BITE (Haydock, 3.00) to bare his teeth and gain revenge on Native River in Saturday's enthralling Betfair Chase.

An unseasonably dry autumn has left conditions at the North West venue unusually quick and the good ground will surely nullify the hopes of mud-loving duo Native River and Bristol De Mai, while accentuating the claims of the smooth-travelling selection.

Might Bite has only suffered one defeat at the highest level when completing — he fell at the last in the Kauto Star Novices' Chase in 2016 when well clear — that reverse sustained in last season's Gold Cup at the hands of Native River.

Racing expert Robin Goodfellow brings you the tips you need ahead of Saturday's meetings

However, the four-length loss was surely down to the heavy going which played to the strengths of a grinder like Colin Tizzard's gelding who had won a Welsh National and two Denman Chases on deep ground.

In contrast, Might Bite's premier performances have been recorded on better surfaces. Neither of the two main protagonists has enjoyed the benefit of an outing yet this season, but as both sets of connections have been targeting the £1million bonus on offer for any horse completing the 2018-19 chasing triple crown, fitness should not be an issue.

Might Bite is a best-priced 12-1 to win today's prestigious event, the King George on Boxing Day and go one better in the Gold Cup in March and it will be disappointing if he can't make an ideal start.

Fans of Bristol De Mai will point to his outstanding track record, where three visits to Merseyside have produced victories by 32, 22 and 57 lengths respectively.

However, those displays were also achieved on heavy, soft and heavy ground respectively and, unless there is significant rainfall, Might Bite will have too much pace.

Haydock

ROBIN GOODFELLOW 12.10 Cause Toujours 12.40 Red Infantry 1.15 Kalondra 1.50 Cliffs Of Dover 2.25 Captain Cattistock (nap) 3.00 Might Bite 3.35 Captain Redbeard (nb) GIMCRACK 12.10 Denmead 12.40 Little Bruce 1.15 Full Glass 1.50 Admiral Barratry 2.25 Paisley Park 3.00 Might Bite (nap) 3.35 Takingrisks

Ascot

ROBIN GOODFELLOW 12.20 Trevelyn's Corn 12.55 Cresswell Legend 1.30 Petticoat Tails 2.05 Politologue 2.40 If The Cap Fits 3.15 Cyrname 3.50 Hazzaar GIMCRACK 12.20 Stoney Mountain 12.55 Merry Milan 1.30 Petticoat Tails 2.05 Benatar 2.40 We Have A Dream 3.15 Duke Of Navan 3.50 Roccowithlove

Huntingdon

ROBIN GOODFELLOW 12.00 Enrichissant 12.30 Jet Set 1.05 Starjac 1.40 Cubswin 2.15 Truckers Highway 2.50 Aquarian 3.25 Simply Loveleh GIMCRACK 12.00 Espoir De Loire 12.30 Jet Set 1.05 Starjac 1.40 Collodi 2.15 Here I Am 2.50 Downloadtheapp 3.25 Simply Loveleh

Lingfield

ROBIN GOODFELLOW 11.45 Caring Touch 12.15 Archies Lad 12.50 Briyouni 1.25 Ghazawaat 2.00 Red Impression 2.35 Captain Lars 3.10 Para Mio 3.40 Hackbridge GIMCRACK 11.45 Contrive (nb) 12.15 Feel The Noize 12.50 Chica De La Noche 1.25 Sir Thomas Gresham 2.00 Red Impression 2.35 Captain Lars 3.10 Ban Shoof 3.40 Visor

Newmarket – 11.45 Contrive (nap)

Wolverhampton

ROBIN GOODFELLOW

5.15 Carlovian

5.45 A Sure Welcome

6.15 Fayez

6.45 Foxy Locks

7.15 Astrologer

7.45 West Newton

8.15 Axel Jacklin

8.45 The King's Steed

GIMCRACK

5.15 Napping

5.45 A Sure Welcome

6.15 Sunday Prospect

6.45 Comporta

7.15 Alhaazm

7.45 Pour Me A Drink

8.15 Fume

8.45 Lucky Lodge

Newmarket – 7.15 Alhaazm (nb)

Northerner – 5.15 Carlovian (nap); 6.15 Bravery (nb).

====== 2572 ========

NICO DE BOINVILLE BRACED FOR NATIVE RIVER BATTLE AFTER BEING CLEARED TO RIDE MIGHT BITE

Jockey Nico De Boinville says he has maximum respect for chief market rival Native River even though bookmakers expect his mount Might Bite to avenge his Cheltenham Gold Cup defeat in Saturday's Betfair Chase.

A two-and-a-half-furlong shorter race distance, quicker ground and Haydock's sharper track are seen as more favourable to Nicky Henderson-trained Might Bite, who won last season's King George VI Chase at Kempton and followed his Gold Cup defeat by slamming Bristol De Mai and Clan Des Obeaux at Aintree. Both those rivals are also in Saturday's line-up.

De Boinville, who received clearance on Thursday to return to action after breaking his thumb just over three weeks ago, said: 'Aintree is quite a sharp track as well and Might Bite definitely went well around there where the fences come up quite quickly.

Nico de Boinville will ride Might Bite in Cheltenham Gold Cup rematch with Native River

'The Haydock track should suit him but you have to respect Native River. Going to the second fence last in the Gold Cup, I thought I was slightly getting the better of him but he kept going all the way to the line.

'The conditions just found us out but Native River does grind it out and he has that bit of class. Colin Tizzard (his trainer) and son Joe have been fairly bullish over the last couple of weeks it sounds like Native River will head to Haydock in top condition.'

De Boinville broke his thumb when unseated from Before Midnight at Chepstow on October 30. He had the plaster removed from his hand on Wednesday but did not receive clearance to return from BHA doctor Jerry Hill until Thursday morning.

Might Bite will seek to avenge his Cheltenham Gold Cup defeat in Saturday's Betfair Chase

De Boinville has his comeback ride on Wenyerreadyfreddie in the opening race on Friday at Ascot but reckons the support he has received from the rehabilitation team at the Injured Jockeys Fund Oaksey House centre in Lambourn ironically probably makes him fitter than before he got injured.

De Boinville said: 'I have had physio and a strength and conditioning course to maintain my weight to come out of the place stronger and fitter. I should be in better shape than when I got injured!

'The quicker you can get into surgery the better because then the bone can start to knit and heal and it was also down to the physios at Oaksey House that I had surgery two days after I injured my thumb.'

A fantastic five have been declared for the £200,000 Betfair Chase. As well as last year's winner Bristol De Mai, Clan Des Obeaux, Might Bite and Native River, the latter's stablemate Thistlecrack will run for the first time since sustaining a stress fracture when fourth in the King George VI Chase.

Sponsor's Betfair Chase Betting: Evens Might Bite, 5/2 Native River, 7/1 Bristol De Mai, 7/1 Thistlecrack, 12/1 Clan Des Obeaux,

====== 2573 ========

TOTTENHAM VS CHELSEA HEAD-TO-HEAD: WHO WINS THE ON-PITCH BATTLES?

Two old rivals clash in the fixture of the weekend under the arch on Saturday night as Premier League football returns following the international break.

Just a point separates unbeaten visitors Chelsea, in third, and fourth-placed Spurs, with both aiming to bring the title back to London.

Here, Sportsmail's MIKE KEEGAN delivers his verdict on the expected starting XIs and predicts who will take the Wembley honours.

GOALKEEPERS

Hugo Lloris 7.5

An under-par start to the season, coupled with some unhelpful off-the-field issues, led to the 'L' word – liability – being used in connection with the World Cup winner. Lloris kept a clean sheet at Crystal Palace before international fortnight and will be hoping to carry on where he left off. His distribution is key.

Kepa Arrizabalaga 8

Took the Spanish gloves from David de Gea in the international break and has impressed after his big-money move, with nine clean sheets in 16 appearances. Has made only one notable mistake — in the 3-2 win over Arsenal — and would appear to be the solid presence Maurizio Sarri craves.

Hugo Lloris and Kepa Arrizabalaga will have to be at their best if they are to keep a clean sheet

DEFENDERS

Serge Aurier 6.5

Likely to step in for the injured Kieran Trippier, and his presence will concern Spurs fans. There is no doubting the athletic, rapid Ivorian's talent, but his concentration levels are not what they perhaps should be and a clanger never feels far away.

Cesar Azpilicueta 7.5

Mr Consistent. One of those defenders who you do not notice, which suggests he is rarely at fault. Perhaps not the most dynamic attacking threat, but does exactly what is asked of him.

Serge Aurier and Cesar Azpilicueta will start at right back for their respective sides

Toby Alderweireld 7

Tottenham's only fully-fit centre-half will be looking to put a nightmare evening with Belgium in Switzerland behind him. The hosts found more holes in the Belgium backline than their famous cheese and, while Alderweireld cannot shoulder all the blame, it was a stunning collapse that nobody saw coming. Will need to be at his best.

Antonio Rudiger 7.5

The German has adapted well to life under Sarri, and his distribution, so important in his manager's style of play, has improved. While his theatrical collapse after a glance from Everton lightweight Bernard rightly won him few fans, has been a commanding presence in a defence that has performed well so far.

Toby Alderweireld and Antonio Rudiger have been in fine form for their clubs this season

Jan Vertonghen 7

May well come in for his first start in almost two months following a hamstring injury and will be welcomed with open arms. Mauricio Pochettino is a big fan of the Belgian, who now has six years at the club following his move from Ajax. Had Spurs actually signed someone in the window, he would probably not be back in the mix yet.

David Luiz 7

Back in favour following the departure of Antonio Conte, the Brazilian looks set to win a new contract at the Bridge and no wonder. Earlier this week, Sarri sung his praises, highlighting his 'intelligence' and 'availability'. Is now firmly re-established.

Jan Vertonghen (left) is back in first team training while David Luiz is a reliable defender

Ben Davies 6.5

Held down the left back spot for long periods last season, to the surprise of many. The intelligent, softly-spoken Welshman, however, had a tough time against Palace and there are concerns over his ability to deal with the best of the best. He will relish the opportunity to prove his critics wrong.

Marcos Alonso 7.5

Sarri reckons the Spaniard can be the best left back in Europe, and he may have a point. Brilliant going forward, but questions remain about his defending. If he can answer those, then Sarri's prediction will not be far off the mark.

Left backs Ben Davies and Marcos Alonso will be hoping to make a difference from wide areas

MIDFIELDERS

Moussa Sissoko 7

Appears to have proved his doubters wrong after a sterling start to the season, which is just as well, given Spurs' apparent lack of options in the centre of the park. Back in the France squad, and a dominating presence that Tottenham will need.

N'Golo Kante 7.5

Will step out fresh from signing a new, five-year contract, which should give you some indication of how he is regarded in west London. A tireless player who is everywhere, and key to Chelsea's strong start to life under Sarri.

France internationals Moussa Sissoko and N'Golo Kante will face each other on Saturday

Eric Dier 7.5

Has impressed for club and country and appears to be maturing into a fine player. At 24, he provides a reassuring, controlling presence, and will look to dictate on Saturday evening.

Jorginho 8

Chelsea won the bidding war with Manchester City to ensure he followed his manager from Napoli and the reasons for their efforts have become clear. Has 100 passes more than anyone else in Europe's top five leagues so far this season and makes Chelsea tick.

Tottenham's Eric Dier and Jorginho of Chelsea often play at the base of the midfield

Christian Eriksen 7.5

Fitness worries over Erik Lamela could hand the Dane a start. Pochettino demands loyalty from his players and perhaps the numerous reports linking Eriksen with a move away are behind his relative lack of playing time. On his day, can change the game.

Mateo Kovacic 7.5

Looks set to win his fitness battle after picking up an injury at the same venue during Croatia's Nations League defeat to England last weekend. Another new arrival who has slotted in nicely, although a feeling remains that the best may be yet to come.

Christian Eriksen and Mateo Kovacic will battle it out in midfield during Saturday's duel

Dele Alli 7.5

Presuming he has had some sleep after his late night following England's finals-qualifying win, could be Spurs' key to unlocking Chelsea's resolute defences. Another who came back from a long World Cup who may well improve over the coming weeks.

Willian 7.5

Like his compatriot Luiz, has flourished under the new manager following the departure of Conte. Entertaining on the field and off it, revealing this week that Kante knows the value of a pound and often is last to reach for his wallet in restaurants.

Dele Alli and Willian will be looking to get on the scoresheet for their respective sides

ATTACKERS

Lucas Moura 7.5

There were some who were questioning why Spurs brought the Brazilian across the Channel from Paris Saint-Germain in the middle of last season. With a full pre-season under his belt, he has shown them why. Electric pace, intelligent runs and sound distribution. Like a new signing.

Eden Hazard 9.5

The brilliant Belgian continues to improve and has to be involved in best in the world conversations. When he gets the ball, things tend to happen, unless he gets singled out for a roughing up, which happens with increasing regularity.

Lucas Moura and Eden Hazard will be hoping to steal the show during the London derby

Harry Kane 9

Already a shoe-in for a knighthood and the best old-fashioned striker in the Premier League. His presence, intelligence and ability to hold the ball up are one thing, his lethal finishing another. Spurs fans must have nightmares over what happens if he ever gets injured.

Alvaro Morata 7

Comes in for his fair share of flak and, as the saying goes, often looks like he would not hit sand if he fell off a camel. That is a little harsh, but improvement is needed if he is to justify his hefty transfer fee.

Harry Kane will be buoyed by his England heroics while Alvaro Morata will start at Wembley

TOTALS

SPURS: 80.5

CHELSEA: 84.5

PREDICTION: Tottenham 1-1 Chelsea. A result which will do the away side more favours than the home side, but one an injury-depleted Spurs would probably take.

====== 2574 ========

JOHNNY SEXTON MUST WIN WORLD PLAYER OF THE YEAR... NOT BEAUDEN BARRETT

Well, here we are then. We knew this day would come, but now it has are we all a bit sad or happy for the times we had?

This weekend sees the curtain fall on a fascinating autumn of Test rugby. But come on, wipe the tears away - there is much to discuss and enjoy before internationals crawl back their clubs battered and bruised, the world order completed jolted.

So let's enjoy it while we can. Once more into the breach dear friends, once more!

This is the final weekend of the autumn internationals, so are we all happy or sad about it?

NEWS FROM ROUND THE NATIONS

NORTH STARS

Has there ever been a time when there has been this many good teams in the Northern Hemisphere?

Ireland have just beaten the All Blacks and are nominally - if not ranked - the best in the world, Wales have sneaked quietly to third while shushing anyone who mentions it, a relatively hit-and-miss England are next in fourth and look odds on to beat Australia and South Africa this autumn, and only lost to New Zealand by a point with at least 10 injured.

Then you have Scotland who can be so wonderfully threatening, but can also ingloriously fail too, and France who mix it with the best of them when they can be bothered.

The Northern Hemisphere teams have been hugely impressive during the autumn campaign

Ireland are arguably the best team in the world right now after beating the All Blacks

Unquestionably all the cards lie in the hands of those up here rather than down there with a year to go to the World Cup.

It's fair to say Scrum's the Word has been grinding down the shoe leather this autumn, and has been lucky enough to watch Ireland, New Zealand, Wales, Scotland and Australia live, and has been in press conferences with the Japanese, South Africans, English and Tongans too. So we've been going round doing a bit of straw poll - we might think so, but do the people that matter think the balance of power has shifted from south to north this autumn?

Rassie Erasmus, South Africa head coach, said: 'I think it will be an open race next year. We saw what happened last week with Ireland beating New Zealand.

'We managed to pip New Zealand, Scotland almost had New Zealand last year and England almost had them this month. I really think it is an open race.

'The clear favourites are New Zealand and Ireland but Wales are one of those teams hovering there, almost the silent assassin at this stage.

'They have won eight in a row and they are slowly building depth. In terms of us, if we managed to beat Wales the only team we have not beaten who are real contenders is Ireland. That gives us hope but it won't be easy.'

South Africa coach Rassie Erasmus said: 'It will be an open race next year (at the World Cup)'

Will Genia, 99-cap Australia scrum-half, said: 'It's proving to be more difficult now (playing northern hemisphere teams) with the recent run of results that we've had against teams like England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales obviously.

'All I'll say is that from here until the World Cup there's a lot that can happen. Results can change like that.

'That's obviously been shown by the fact that New Zealand were said to be favourites to the point where they said, 'give them the World Cup' and they've just lost to Ireland. A lot can change, a lot can happen.'

Warren Gatland, Wales head coach, said: 'You would like to think the gap of the southern hemisphere dominance has closed. It is great for rugby and great for the World Cup.

'You see the All Blacks lose one or two games and the people who have turned on them is quite incredible. I look at that aghast. To me they are still the best team in the world. There could easily have been more northern hemisphere success in this autumn campaign.

'France were very unlucky against South Africa, leading 79 minutes on the clock and having a scrum in the South African 22. Scotland had a good performance last week and England were 15-0 up against the All Blacks.

'I think it is absolutely brilliant for rugby that we have got eight or nine teams who if they perform well on the day are capable of beating anybody.'

And while Joe Schmidt, the Ireland head coach, would not play the game - saying: 'We'll leave 11 months for 11 months' time,' at least Steve Hansen kept to the theme.

'It's going to be a cracking World Cup, isn't it? It will be a beauty, and I'm looking forward to it.'

Not half, Steve. Not half.

All Blacks boss Steve Hansen backed that up by saying: 'It's going to be a cracking World Cup'

BEASTS UNLEASHED

Eddie Jones might just field England's biggest ever backline in the second half against the Australians.

If Manu Tuilagi joins Joe Cokanasiga and Ben Te'o then you might just see some wincing Wallabies at Twickenham.

This potential back-line weighs almost 110 stone... Never mind Warrenball, what about Eddieball?

STRENGTH IN NUMBERS

Leigh Halfpenny, Hallam Amos, Scott Williams, Tyler Morgan, Steff Evans, Rhys Patchell, Rhys Webb; Wyn Jones, Ryan Elias, Samson Lee, Jake Ball, Bradley Davies, Aaron Shingler, Josh Navidi, Taulupe Faletau.

Scott Baldwin, Dillon Lewis, Leon Brown, Luke Charteris, James Davies, Aled Davies, Rhys Priestland, Jonah Holmes.

That's 23 players who aren't playing for Wales this weekend against South Africa, for one reason or another. Not a bad position for Warren Gatland to be in, eh?

DUAL FUEL

Gregor Townsend has taken a leaf out of England's book with his selection for the Argentina game. Emulating the George Ford-Owen Farrell axis that led Eddie Jones' men to 17 wins in a row back in 2016-17, Townsend has picked Adam Hastings and Finn Russell together as dual playmakers.

If it comes off it could be a transformative move - and could spell chaos for the Pumas.

Gregor Townsend has picked Adam Hastings and Finn Russell together as dual playmakers

FEELING BLUE

Poor Italy, eh? The last time New Zealand lost to Ireland, the All Blacks' next trip was to Rome. All their pain from Chicago was taken out on the hapless Italians - 68-10, thanks very much.

And now having lost in Dublin the Azzurri are again in the firing line for the Kiwis. Despite a much-changed New Zealand side, expect a similar mauling.

ALLEZ LES ROUGES!

The Canadian Canucks don't miss World Cups - they have appeared at every one since the tournament's inception in 1987.

And now they are one point away from sealing their place at the next one in Japan. All Canada have to do against Hong Kong is take a losing bonus point or better down in France and they're in come 2019.

What is their reward for winning the repechage competition? Joining a group with New Zealand, South Africa...gulp... Italy and Namibia.

Canada (in red) are now one point away from booking themselves a place at the World Cup

HAVING A DOMESTIC

In all the autumn wranglings, you may have forgotten that the Gallagher Premiership has been pootling along.

Another round of fixtures is played this weekend with Newcastle v Bath on Friday night then Worcester v Harlequins, Exeter v Gloucester, Sale v Northampton, Wasps v Bristol and then Leicester v Saracens on Sunday.

This - when the Test players are away - is when the clubs earn their dough. Exeter and Saracens are still unbeaten, and Newcastle (despite their European brilliance) are three point adrift of Sale at the bottom.

There are still only nine points between 11th and 4th, so nightmarish to predict what the hell is going to happen.

SCRUM SOAPBOX – THIS CAN'T BE ALL BLACK FOR ONCE

If Johnny Sexton is not crowned World Rugby Player of the Year on Sunday we might as well give up.

From whacking over a last-gasp drop goal in Paris to orchestrating the first Irish win over the All Blacks in 113 years in Dublin, he has had the best year of any rugby player by an absolute mile.

Not only has he won the Pro14, Champions Cup, Six Nations Grand Slam and inspired a first Irish series win in Australia since 1979 there is also a completely remarkable stat that reflects his dominance over the last 18 months or so.

Sexton has 13 wins & a draw in his last 14 starts for Ireland and the British & Irish Lions.

Johnny Sexton should land the World Player of the Year award for his magnificent 2018

Sexton has 13 wins & a draw in his last 14 starts for Ireland and the British & Irish Lions

Every top Test team has been beaten in the last 16 months by a team with Sexton at 10 – including New Zealand twice. Are you kidding Johnny!?

Meanwhile his competition for the gong, which will be presented in Monaco this weekend, trail in his wake. As we have mentioned before, Tadhg Furlong should definitely have been on the list but seeing as he isn't let's look at the ones who are.

Malcolm Marx has been superb, but completely capitulated against England at Twickenham.

And has anyone seen Rieko Ioane in the last fortnight? We've checked the team-sheets and it says he actually played on the wing against both England and Ireland – but for the life of us we can't remember a single thing he did.

Then we come to the holder. Beauden Barrett has been poor in at least three games this season, shut out by strong defences rather than those which wave him through far too often down south.

Beauden Barrett has been poor in at least three games this season, he should not win

There is no question the two-time player of the year is a superb attacker, but this year it is not his award. Frankly, if those who vote for these things conspire to hand him the prize this time it will be a disgrace.

Faf de Klerk is the only player who can hold a candle to Sexton in 2018 - and he's not won a thing except a big Test against the All Blacks and the series against England. He's outstanding, but this is not his year either.

Kiwis have won this 10 of the last 12 times it has been awarded. It is time for the black pall to be lifted from world rugby.

Time to dye it green.

STATCAVE

Five wins in a row for England against Australia. Not even Sir Clive Woodward's vintage of 2000-03 beat them six times, so if England win again this weekend it will be their best ever run against the Wallabies in 109 years of Tests.

14 points England have beaten Australia by in that five-match run on average. Their biggest win since 2016 came last November, when they won 30-6 at Twickenham.

50 points scored by the All Blacks - at least - in nine of their last 13 Tests against Italy. They have only ever conceded 20 or more once, back in 1991.

14 losses in a row in Rome for Italy. They last won at Stadio Olimpico FIVE years ago in 2013 against - oddly, against Ireland.

Two of their last 14 Tests won away from home by Argentina - they take on Scotland this Saturday.

Zero back-to-back wins for Australia in over a year. They beat Italy 26-7 last weekend, and have not won in consecutive weeks since going on a run of four wins in October and November 2017.

Only two Welsh teams have won more consecutive Tests than the currently lot. In 1999 Wales won 10 in a row, and between 1907-10 they won 11. The current run is eight wins on the spin.

First time Fiji will play at the Stade de France - but they have lost all nine of their previous Tests against France.

Only two Welsh teams have won more consecutive Tests than the currently lot

====== 2575 ========

EDDIE JONES HAS BOTH EXCITED AND BAFFLED ME WITH HIS TEAM SELECTION

I absolutely love the look of the England team to play Australia on Saturday — with one exception. Why is England coach Eddie Jones starting Dylan Hartley on the bench?

I can see it is possible to make an argument for this but it just doesn't feel right. Hartley is playing his best rugby in a long time — brilliant against New Zealand when he was taken off at half-time and very good off the bench against Japan last week.

Hartley is a world-class player coming into very good form and is also a great leader. His replacement, Jamie George, is also a very good player but one or two rough edges have been exposed in the past few weeks.

Jamie George Has been picked ahead of England co-captain Dylan Hartley at hooker

I would love to know what Dylan feels because I don't know a single player of his quality who would be happy about it.

World-class players want to be starters AND finishers. Why would you deny yourselves their services for so long?

I once played devil's advocate with Lawrence Dallaglio about this when he was playing.

I posed the argument that because 80 per cent of matches between top nations have just one score between them after 60 minutes, perhaps we should aim to have our strongest side on the field for the last 20 minutes. Perhaps I should start him, Martin Johnson and Jonny Wilkinson on the bench?

The horror on Lawrence's face and his scorn at my suggestion said it all. No, no, no. You don't limit the participation of your best players. You maximise it.

Hartley starts on the bench against Australia despite an impressive autumn series

England coach Eddie Jones has defended his decision to drop Hartley in favour of George

Where is the data which says Hartley can't play 80 minutes? He is 32 but my eyes tell me he definitely can, and if England have doubts over this, tomorrow would have been the ideal opportunity to keep him on and clock the data.

I remain 'Baffled from Cookham' on this but otherwise I am extremely excited as to what this England line-up could achieve. It's great that the big success stories this autumn have been given the green light and will start against the Aussies.

Kyle Sinckler is maturing as an individual and player and brings much to the table. He is not only the future, he is the present.

Sam Underhill showed against New Zealand and off the bench last week what an important player he can be going forward, and although Mark Wilson is not another Billy Vunipola, he has exceeded expectations as a stand-in at No 8.

Manu Tuilagi is set to be unleashed from the bench by England against Australia

Wilson has been ever-present this autumn and can play right across the back row — he is unquestionably in the England mix for the biggest games.

Joe Cokanasiga, meanwhile, is a major prospect and did very nicely on debut against Japan last Saturday in a position where England are stacked.

He is only just 21 but he is not a bolter: Cokanasiga has been in England squads for two years. Jones knows just how good he may become.

====== 2576 ========

BREAKING NEWS FROM THE UK AND AROUND THE WORLD

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 2577 ========

SYDNEY NEWS, WEATHER ATTRACTIONS AND VIVID FESTIVAL UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 2578 ========

MELBOURNE NEWS, WEATHER AND UPDATES ON MELBOURNE AFL TEAMS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 2579 ========

BRISBANE NEWS, UPDATES AND WEATHER FROM THE QUEENSLAND CAPITAL

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 2580 ========

PERTH NEWS ON WEATHER, PERTH SCORCHERS AND PERTH GLORY FC

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 2581 ========

LATEST ADELAIDE NEWS, PICTURES AND VIDEOS

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 2582 ========

NEW ZEALAND NEWS PLUS JACINDA ARDERN, AUCKLAND & WELLINGTON UPDATES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 2583 ========

TRUMP NEWS, TWITTER UPDATES AND LATEST HEADLINES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 2584 ========

MOTHER TRIPLES HER INCOME AFTER LAUNCHING A DESSERT COMPANY WITH HER SISTER

What started out as a passion for baking has turned into a business that has seen one mother triple her income.

Lynda Nguyen, 26, started Desserts with Lynda with her sister Lisa, 21, almost by accident.

'Cooking and baking was something we did almost everyday after work, so we decided to create an Instagram page to share photos of food and desserts we had created,' Lynda told FEMAIL.

'From there, we gained a high following on Instagram and prospective customers started messaging us to see if we could make desserts for their events.'

Lynda Nguyen (right), 26, started Desserts with Lynda with her sister Lisa (left), 21, almost by accident

In May 2015 the sisters decided to start recipe tasting and a couple of months later they announced that they would be taking orders.

'We couldn’t believe that people were actually ordering from us. We were booked out for the next three months and within eight months I quit my full time job as an early childhood educator,' Lynda said.

As demand continues to increase, in two days they made $20,000 worth of dessert cup sales, which translated to making 5,000 miniature desserts.

Lisa explained that the idea of selling dessert cups came about when they had to cook for a family event.

'Cooking and baking was something we did almost everyday after work, so we decided to create an Instagram page to share photos of food and desserts we had created,' Lynda told FEMAIL

In May 2015 the sisters decided to start recipe tasting before they would take any orders and a couple of months later they announced that we would be taking orders

'We wanted to make something that looked different but at the same time had a punch of flavour,' she said.

'We started brainstorming on what we could do to elevate the cupcakes that we usually made and were thinking as cupcakes are in liners why can’t we put dessert in cups!'.

Their family loved them so the sisters took a photo of the little treats and posted it on Instagram.

Their followers at the time asked if they were taking any orders and from then on, the rest is history.

As demand continues to increase, in two days they have made $20,000 worth of dessert cup sales, which translated to making 5,000 miniature desserts

What is Lynda's main business tip? I believe for anyone that truly wants a successful business, you need to love what you do. If you want to start a cake or dessert business, start one step at a time, don’t overwhelm yourself thinking you need to purchase the high end equipment straight away, buy as you expand. We started with a $15 Kmart mixer then moved on to a 1 litre stand mixer and now we have a 20 litre mixer.

Because business is booming Lynda has been able to quit her full time job so that she can focus on the desserts full time, but this hasn't come without difficulty.

'Recently I’ve experienced the biggest blessing in my life, welcoming my son into the world,' she said.

'Although he has brought so much happiness in my life, it has been hard managing a business with a new born. My son was just two weeks old when I had to go back to work.'

Lisa still has a full time job but in the evenings and on the weekend she helps Lynda with administration.

As well as dessert cups they make decadent cakes that usually take three days to make.

Lisa explained that the idea of selling dessert cups came about when they had to cook for a family event

Because business is booming Lynda has been able to quit her full time job so that she can focus on the desserts full time, but this hasn't come without difficulty

This involves one day of baking then icing the cakes and topping them with treats the next morning.

The signature dessert is deconstructed cakes topped with lots of delicious toppings, such as fruit, cake crumb, nuts, popcorn and chocolate.

'Our cakes range from $90 (feeding 10) to $400 or more (feeding 90 or more). Our desserts range from $4.50 to $6 each,' Lynda said.

'The most desserts cups we’ve made is almost 5,000 in two days and each weekend we make over 1,000 cups, 12 cakes and also do food catering.'

As well as dessert cups they make decadent cakes that usually take three days to make

Lisa still has a full time job but in the evenings and on the weekend she helps Lynda with administration

'The most desserts cups we’ve made is almost 5,000 in two days and each weekend we make over 1,000 cups, 12 cakes and also do food catering,' Lynda said

Social media and word of mouth has helped with the success of their business and they both said they have to thank their customers for talking about it with family and friends.

'50 per cent of our customers have been referred to us by a friend, it’s just incredibly humbling seeing the same faces for the last three years,' Lynda explained.

'We’ve catered for their engagement, kitchen tea, wedding, baby shower and baby’s first birthday.

'It’s like they’ve been through the journey with us and watched our business grow from our garage to our industrial warehouse and it’s such an honour to be a part of special milestones in their lives.'

Social media and word of mouth has helped with the success of their business and they both said they have to thank their customers for talking about it with family and friends

'50 per cent of our customers have been referred to us by a friend, it’s just incredibly humbling seeing the same faces for the last three years,' Lynda explained

Being able to understand when individuals are more likely to be on the social media platform has also been a key factor of their success.

'Coming from a 9am to 5pm job I’m always likely to be on my phone from 7 to 8am commuting to work and then again at 6 to 8pm commuting back home,' she said.

'Lynda and I always made sure we would at least post two photos or videos during those peak times so our posts would reach a higher audience.'

Five months ago the duo also started their new food catering line specialising in Vietnamese cuisine.

Lynda also offers a catering service that specialises in Vietnamese food

In the next few years they aim to be recogised as one of the leading catering companies in Sydney.

One of the reasons Lynda created the catering line is to bring more understanding to Vietnamese cuisine.

'When speaking to customers, I realised not a lot people know about Vietnamese food,' she said.

'I am so proud of my heritage and the variety of dishes we have and I want to share this with the world.

'That’s why I’ve created a menu that will suit all tastebuds and can be shared at special occasions.'

====== 2585 ========

POLICE CLOSE IN ON TOYAH CORDINGLEY'S CAIRNS KILLER AS THE MURDER CASE TAKES A TWIST

Police are closing in on the killer of a 24-year-old dog walker who was found murdered on a secluded beach more than a month ago.

After weeks of scouring the sand dunes of far-north Queensland's Wanghetti Beach - where Toyah Cordingley's body was found - authorities now believe they have uncovered 'several items of interest'.

The focal area of the investigation has shifted from the beach to Lake Placid and Caravonica, about 30km south of the murder scene.

Police snipers were stationed at the head of crocodile-infested Moody Creek.

Scroll down for video

Police believe they're closing in on the killer of 24-year-old Toyah Cordingley (pictured)

Police - including snipers - have been stationed at crocodile-infested Moody Creek (pictured)

Their presence 'does directly relate to the (homicide) investigation', a spokesperson told Cairns Post.

Ms Cordingley, a dog walker, was reported missing by her boyfriend on October 21 and found dead the next morning

Lake Placid appears to be the priority for detectives, with Queensland Police issuing a call to the public for reports of anything out of the ordinary seen in the area on October 21, the day Ms Cordingley was reported missing.

In particular, police are cyclists who rode in the area late in the afternoon to reach out.

Despite the area of interest being shifted away from Wanghetti Beach, locals are still preparing searching parties.

Spearheaded by family friend Wayne 'Prong' Trimble, another search of the beach will go forward on Sunday morning.

Those with aerial drones or metal detectors are urged to join the group.

Detective Inspector Sonia Smith said police were heartened by the enormous show of continued community support.

More than 800 calls to Crimestoppers in relation to Toyah's murder had been made, with dozens providing dash cam and CCTV footage to detectives.

'We remain committed to finding answers for Toyah and her family,' Detective Inspector Smith said.

Hundreds of people have scoured Wanghetti Beach where Ms Cordingley was found

Her grieving parents Troy and Vanessa (pictured) shared the pain of losing their daughter

The focal shift comes days after Ms Cordingley's grieving parents publicly revealed the pain of losing their daughter.

'Life for us will never, ever be the same,' mother Vanessa Gardiner said.

Mrs Gardiner said her daughter had been full of life from the day she was born, and that the young girl had immediately become the centre of her world.

That world shattered on October 21, when Mrs Gardiner got word Ms Cordingley's boyfriend had reported her missing.

She, her son Jack, and Ms Cordingley's father, Troy, headed out to the beach, searching tirelessly with small torches until light finally broke about 5.30am, she said.

'Eventually, I found Toyah's dog Indi, and we kept searching until my phone battery started to go flat, and Jack walked me back to the car.'

Detective Inspector Sonia Smith has praised Ms Cordingley's community for banding together

Ms Cordingley's father Troy (pictured together) found her body in the dunes on October 22

When Mrs Gardiner and her son returned home with the dog, they were met by police and SES volunteers.

Jack took a uniformed officer back to where Indi had been found, but shortly after the pair arrived, tragedy struck.

'Troy had discovered Toyah not long after Jack arrived with the officer,' Mrs Gardiner said.

'It was a truly a heartbreaking moment... the days that followed did not feel real to us.'

The family began to make funeral arrangements, as friends poured in with kind wishes and meals to fill the fridge.

Mrs Gardiner said as the family struggled to come to terms with the great horror that had befallen them, and that they were even unable to eat.

'Our sleeps were short and we didn't eat much,' she said. 'At times, our emotions were numb, other times we were a mess.

'It was an emotional rollercoaster of grief, hate, anger, and nothingness, feeling hollow, guilt, not knowing how to feel.'

====== 2586 ========

GIRL, 15, DIVORCES ALCOHOL-ABUSING PARENTS AND IS ALLOWED TO LIVE WITH HER GRANDMOTHER

A teenage girl has undergone a 'divorce' from her 'dysfunctional' parents.

The girl, 15, whose identity has been suppressed and named X by the court, was caught in a bitter custody battle between her parents and her grandmother.

Judge Tom Altobelli ruled that the girl could decide who she wanted to live with.

'X has expressed a wish to continue to live with the paternal grandmother,' Judge Altobelli stated in a 176-page ruling released online.

The girl, 15, whose identity has been suppressed and named X by the court, was caught in a custody battle between her parents and her grandmother (stock image)

Judge Altobelli said both parents had a history of drug and alcohol issues.

The girl's mother, 44, suffered from mental health issues and the father, 43, spent time in jail for growing drugs.

'The Mother experienced periods of mental ill health. The Father experienced periods of physical ill health,' Judge Altobelli said in the ruling.

'It seems as if the parents were involved in drug cultivation, and the father ultimately spent time in jail relating to this.'

Pictured: Family Court of Australia. 'X has expressed a wish to continue to live with the paternal grandmother,' Judge Altobelli stated in a 176-page ruling

The 15-year-old girl has two siblings, aged seven and 10, who both live with their biological parents.

'The children made disclosures of alleged sexual abuse perpetrated by their Mother,' according to the ruling.

Judge Altobelli said the children's' grandparents became increasingly involved in their lives because of the 'dysfunction of the parental household.'

The ruling includes an injunction to restrain the mother from sharing a bed with the girl when she is 'living or spending overnight time' at her place.

The girls' mother, father and grandmother are further restrained by injunction from taking illicit drugs and drinking alcohol to the point of intoxication in the girl's presence during and 12 hours before seeing her.

The 15-year-old is free to decide who she lives with until she is 18 without returning to court.

====== 2587 ========

INSIDE THE LIFE OF A NINE-MONTH-OLD GIRL WHO WAS 'SACRIFICED BY HER FATHER'

Authorities ignored desperate pleas for help in the days before the alleged murder of a nine-month-old girl, who lived under twigs on a public beach and was raised by her homeless parents.

Police were forced to drive the family across the Queensland border to a relative's home in New South Wales on Monday, two days before the toddler washed up on a Gold Coast beach.

Government sources who spoke to the Gold Coast Bulletin said police had repeatedly tried to alert the Department of Child Safety about the distressed young girl and her living conditions, but their calls for help had been ignored.

The failure comes as Daily Mail Australia can reveal the final moments of the baby, who spent her last afternoon alive playing in the sun with her loving young mother.

The father (left) of a baby girl found dead on a Gold Coast beach had a very different relationship with his daughter (pictured left) than his doting mother (pictured right) did

The nine-month-old girl was allegedly thrown into the water at Jack Evans Harbour in New South Wales late on Saturday, before washing up on a beach at Surfers Paradise, Queensland, on Monday. The 48-year-old father has been charged with murder over the death

On Saturday afternoon, the 23-year-old mother sat at Jake Evans Boat Harbour, on the border, playing with her infant daughter.

Onlookers say the pair looked so happy to be in each other's company, the mother clearly doting on her nine-month-old baby, as the child reached up towards her face.

Hours later, the baby had disappeared, and within two days, her body would wash up on the shore 30 kilometres north.

Her father would be charged with her murder shortly after.

Anyone who knew the couple found their relationship confusing.

The pair could not be more different, and their pairing was always set to be doomed.

The mother is a 23-year-old university graduate, while the father, 48, is understood to have a very limited education.

She was raised in a loving home, attended an all-girls private school in Geelong, and went on to study psychology services at Deakin University.

As she was studying, the father was battling issues with drugs and alcohol.

Before the baby's death, the family were living between a rundown van and a small shack made from twigs and sticks (pictured)

When the pair first got together, the young woman turned her back on her life in Geelong and moved up to Queensland with him.

'She had what you would consider a very normal upbringing,' a member of the mother's family told Daily Mail Australia.

'But she's battled mental health issues and has unfortunately just got mixed up with the wrong people.'

Friends say she was a virgin when they met, and that he would brag about impregnating her the first time they had sex, as though it was a sign they were meant to be together.

Far from the mother-of-two's comfortable life with her family, she and her partner lived rough, sleeping in parks, bus shelters, and most recently, a 'humpy' - which is a teepee-like shelter constructed of branches.

The primitive living conditions (pictured) of the family are in stark contrast to the comfortable upbringing the 23-year-old mother enjoyed

The family first welcomed a son, and soon after a daughter.

While the son is believed to have received the affection of both his parents, locals told Daily Mail Australia the situation was different for the baby girl.

Robin, who lives in a motorhome and spent considerable time camping alongside the couple, said the father was noticeably closer to his son.

The pair played the harmonica, and enjoyed a loving relationship that contrasted harshly with the one he shared with his daughter.

'He was really good to the boy, but the little girl - he didn't want a bar of her,' she said.

The mother, who was arrested after her daughter's body was found, but has been released from police custody without charge and placed into the care of Queensland mental health services, had a strong bond with her daughter, Robin said.

On that fateful Saturday, the mother was sitting on a small hill, behind a watersports rental van, and spent the afternoon showering her daughter with love.

'I watched her play with that baby all afternoon, she loved that baby,' Robin said.

'She was kissing it, the baby was bouncing up and down, reaching up to grab her face.

'That was her last afternoon in the sun.'

The little girl was found dead by the water (pictured) early on Monday. Paramedics desperately tried to revive the little girl but she was pronounced dead at the scene. Her father was arrested soon after

The baby girl was found in the early hours of Monday morning, her naked body washed ashore on a beach near Surfer's Paradise, 30 kilometres north.

Her parents and two-year-old brother had set up camp not far from there, and were living in a humpy in the sand dunes of a Surfers Paradise beach.

Both parents were initially arrested, and police pressed murder charges against the father and had him extradited to NSW.

In New South Wales, court documents indicate police will allege the father lied to his partner about where he was taking their baby on the night he allegedly killed her.

Police claim he had told the 23-year-old mother-of-two he was taking the infant to see an elder - leaving her and their son on their own for about half an hour, while he dumped her body, clothed only in a nappy, in a waterway.

The documents outline the devastating final hours of the young girl, with officers reporting they were called to a park at Broadbeach about 3am on the day she is believed to have died after reports of a domestic violence incident.

There, the officers who visited the pair allegedly raised concerns about 'their ability to provide care and shelter for their children'.

Later that day the family - including their two-year-old - were driven by police south to Kingscliff, across the NSW border, before catching a bus to Tweed Heads.

They spent the remainder of the day in the vicinity of Jack Evans Harbour, at which time the couple reportedly asked another homeless woman to take the baby.

Police will allege the man said to the child's mother: 'Let them have this time to themselves to get to know each other'.

After a short period with the girl, the woman allegedly handed her back and told the couple: 'I can't do it, I'm living on the street (too)'.

A heavy downpour saw the parents and their two children flee to a shopping centre for protection from the rain.

That night the family were captured on CCTV footage pushing a trolley in the Tweed Heads area with their two kids, who were both only wearing nappies.

Police established a crime scene at the Surfers Paradise beach (right), a far cry from the glitz and glamour that is normally associated with Surfers Paradise (left)

It is known the family lived rough and used a rundown black van at one point (pictured)

On Sunday, the family was again spotted on CCTV - this time in the Broadbeach area, and without the baby girl.

About 12.30am the next day the infant was found by a passerby in the surf of the popular beach - about 30 kilometres from where police believe her body was dumped.

Locals in the Tweed Heads area say they are furious the police and child services didn't intervene on the family earlier, and claim multiple reports had been filed with both law enforcement and the government agency.

But Robin, who knew the couple better than most, said many people in the community had shunned them - and shunned her when she stepped in to help.

She claims when she tried to help the struggling family at the shopping centre, she was snubbed by the locals.

'A lot of people look down on them,' she said of the parents.

'[The mother] would go into the parents room at [the shopping centre] to try and get some shelter on a rainy day, and the cleaners would come along and chuck her out.

'Child welfare knew about [their situation], the police knew about it... this town has as much to do with this baby dying as the perpetrator.

'None of you tried to help.'

As the investigation into how the infant died continues and media flood the pristine beaches, speculation has been rife as to how the couple met, and what kept them together.

Tributes for the young girl were laid out at the site where her body was found (pictured)

One included a touching letter lamenting that more was not done to save her young life

Multiple people told Daily Mail Australia they believe 'black magic', a controversial and ancient part of Indigenous culture which is associated with healing, curses and relationships, was involved in the couples' meeting.

'She's been sung up,' Robin said.

'He was into the black magic and stuff… he shape shifted.

'His teeth came down, he made a clicking noise, his shoulders rounded and his eyes were black.

'He'd walk around my van with his head turned away from me, spitting on the ground.'

Local woman Edy Johnson, 53, told The Australian if you are sung up, a tune is put into your head that draws you back to the person who sung you.

'Once you are sung, you can't get out of that relationship and that's what happened here,' she said.

The child's father has been remanded in custody, and will reappear in court on February 25.

====== 2588 ========

OUTRAGE AS SANTA IS SACKED FROM PARADE FOR COMMENTS HE WOULDN’T HIRE A WOMAN TO PLAY THE ROLE

A man who has dressed up as Santa for a Christmas parade for the last five years has been controversially dumped just days before the festival.

Neville Baker, who runs the company My Santa, was slammed by parade organisers after revealing he would never hire a woman to play the role of Santa Claus.

'Putting politically correct things to one side, there's a certain character people expect to find when they come to meet Santa,' he told the Herald on Sunday.

'We employ Santa's Little Helpers, and they wear a little skirt and top ... but I wouldn't put a guy in a skirt and top - right?'

Days later, the organisers of Auckland Farmers Santa Parade revealed they would not be hiring Mr Baker for the role after his 'inappropriate comments'.

Neville Baker who has been Santa at the Farmers Santa Parade was sacked for saying women shouldn't play the role of Father Christmas

Many users on social media sided with Mr Baker's convictions against women playing the role of Santa

Hundreds of furious social media users took to the internet to slam the parade for their decision.

'Santa is not a woman, never has been and I certainly hope I never see the day he is a woman. The world is going nuts,' one person wrote.

'I'm against discrimination but I feel in this instance he was right. You can't hire a female to play 'father' Christmas. You would have a lot of confused children,' one user wrote.

'I'm all for equal rights and inclusiveness but come on @FarmersNZ !! What next- can an elephant apply to be a tooth fairy? They can't fly!' another user wrote.

Others called for a boycott of the parade over the decision to dump Mr Baker.

Chairman of the Children's Christmas Parade Trust Michael Barnett said Mr Baker's comments were 'inappropriate and unnecessary',

'We are distancing ourselves from this company,' Mr Barnett told NZME.

While several users said they were against discrimination and for equal rights, many admitted a woman should not be hired for the role of 'Father Christmas'.

====== 2589 ========

MAN CLAIMS MAGGOTS WERE IN HIS WOOLWORTHS NUTS

A man who allegedly pulled a live maggot from his mouth after eating nuts he purchased at a Sydney supermarket has slammed the store's management.

The 27-year-old, known only as Fauzaan, claimed he bought the mixed bag of dried fruit and nuts at Wetherill Park Woolworths about midday on Friday.

He said he filled the bag from a self-serve dispenser and only realised it was tainted after he started eating and felt something move inside his mouth, 9News reported.

A man who allegedly pulled a live maggot from his mouth after eating nuts he purchased at a Sydney supermarket has slammed the store's management

Shocking video and photos captured from the alleged incident shows moths flickering and maggots crawling inside the self-serve dispenser as well as up close

After making the gross discovery, Fauzaan returned to the store to make a complaint but he alleged the store's management didn't provide 'adequate customer service'.

The customer said when he made the complaint he initially spoke to by female staff member who allegedly told him the store manager 'was in a meeting'.

Fauzaan then spoke to another male staff member, who asked him to show him exactly where he found the creepy crawlies in the store.

'When we went there, while I was waiting for him , I looked in the jar properly and there was a little maggot and a moth in it,' Fauzaan said.

Shocking video and photos captured from the alleged incident shows moths flickering and maggots crawling inside the self-serve dispenser as well as up close.

Fauzaan said he was then given a helpline number to call and offered a $40 voucher by the female employee, who asked him to email photos and videos to Woolworths.

The 27-year-old claimed he bought the mixed bag of fruit and nuts at Wetherill Park Woolworths about midday on Friday

A Woolworths spokesperson told Daily Mail Australia the store is aware of the alleged incident and takes food safety and quality very seriously

He said after making the discovery, the male employee allegedly only removed the identified container and didn't bother to properly inspect other nearby food items.

'All they did while I was there was to take that one jar off the shelf… They should take more care for these things,' Fauzaan said.

After dealing with the store's staff, the 27-year-old believes the supermarket failed to provide him with adequate customer service given how serious the situation was.

'It's negligence. I couldn't sleep last night because I'd just eaten maggots,' he said.

Fauzaan said he was left traumatised by the ordeal and thought he would never have eaten a maggot in his entire life.

A Woolworths spokesperson told Daily Mail Australia the store is aware of the alleged incident and it takes food safety and quality very seriously.

'Our store team has removed the specific product from the shelf and undertaken a full check of remaining products in this range and section so customers can be confident of product quality,' the spokesperson said.

'We have apologised directly to the customer and are providing them with a gift card.'

====== 2590 ========

WHY AUSTRALIA’S SCHOOLS ARE BANNING MOBILE PHONES IN THE CLASSROOM

Some of Australia's top private schools have banned mobile phones in classrooms, claiming they affect the concentration and stress levels of students.

Increased fear of missing out, reduced memory and a skewed view of reality are among other reasons why schools have made the controversial ban.

The recent bans have coincided with the New South Wales government's review on the non-educational use of devices in schools, which include submissions saying mobile phones were useful for learning.

Australia's top private schools have banned mobile phone use in classrooms

Newington College in Sydney's inner-west introduced the mobile phone ban late last year after a failed attempt to encourage students to use the devices responsibly.

Students at the all-boys school could carry their phones as long as they weren't seen or heard using them, before the amendments were made in October.

Phones must now be left in lockers but messages can be checked briefly during recess and lunch, reports The Sydney Morning Herald.

Parents of the school were notified to contact their sons through school reception.

Deniliquin High School's tweeted saying the students 'were busy talking to each other in the noisy yard' instead of playing on their phone on the first day the devices were banned in July.

Tara Anglican School for Girls say they've seen a number of positive effects after forcing students to leave their phones in their locker at the start of the year.

'The best part is the delight in the increase in morning tea and lunchtime conversation. Everyone is engaged with each other and not a screen now,' said principal Susan Middlebrook.

Newington College introduced the mobile phone ban in the beginning of term four after a failed attempt to encourage students to use the devices responsibly

Tara Anglican School of girls have seen a positive impact since the mobile phone ban in the beginning of the year

The New South Wales Teachers Federation said smart phones were needed in public schools as a useful took because they weren't given enough funding to supply enough computers.

The Federation of Parents and Citizens Assocation of New South Wales said educating parents and students about responsible mobile use was more effective than a ban.

Head of the review child psychologist Michael Car Gregg will release the report next year.

The recommendations act as as a guide but schools and aren't compulsory.

====== 2591 ========

LIBERAL LEADER LOADS ONION ON TOP OF HIS SAUSAGE AS VICTORIAN ELECTION BEGINS

Labor looks set to earn another four years in government as Victorians line up to cast their votes in Saturday's state election.

Premier Daniel Andrews has a clear advantage in latest opinion poll released the morning of the election giving Labor a 53.5 per cent to 46.5 per cent lead on a two-party preferred basis.

Opposition Leader Matthew Guy was one of more than 1.6 million voters who cast their ballots early, but showed up at a polling station in Eltham as his parents Vera and Chris voted.

Opposition Leader Matthew Guy was one of more than 1.6 million voters who cast their ballots early, but showed up at a polling station in Eltham as his parents Vera and Chris voted

Mr Guy grabbed a traditional sausage sizzle from volunteers outside the booth - but in another ominous sign for his election bid he put the onions on top of his sausage

Mr Guy grabbed a traditional sausage sizzle from volunteers outside the booth - but in another ominous sign for his election bid he put the onions on top of his sausage.

Onion placement became a hot-button issue earlier this month when Bunnings advised charities and community groups running sausage sizzle fundraisers outside its stores to put them below the sausage.

The advice, which the hardware chain said was just a suggestion, was to prevent people slipping on spilled onions and injuring themselves. Bunnings settled at least one lawsuit arising from an onion injury.

Federal Opposition Leader Bill Shorten, on the other hand, took Bunnings' advice to heart and put the onion on the bottom of his sausage sandwich when he cast his own vote.

Mr Guy was with his parents who were voting at Sherbourne Primary School for Mr Guy's childhood friend Nick McGowan, who is hoping to unseat Labor incumbent Vicki Ward for the seat of Eltham

Seeking to make amends for his widely-mocked sausage-eating at the 2016 Federal Election, Mr Shorten arrived at Moonee Ponds West Primary School in Melbourne on Saturday.

He was snapped taking a bite of the sausage sandwich, but it was only marginally less awkward than his previous attempt when he bit into the middle instead of the end.

Mr Shorten said at the time of the Bunnings kerfuffle that he didn't care if the onions were on top or the bottom of the sausage, he just liked onions.

The politicians weren't the only ones enjoying an election day snack - even voters as far away as Antarctica fired up the barbeque to celebrate their democratic rights.

Researchers at Casey Station, Antarctica, snapped a photo of themselves holding sausage sandwiches as they stood in the snow and ice of the rugged landscape.

The Victorian Electoral Commission also gave some practical advice about when to eat them, suggesting hitting the stand while waiting in line for the ballot box. Mid-afternoon was said to be the quietest time to vote.

Federal Opposition Leader Bill Shorten, on the other hand, took Bunnings' advice to heart and put the onion on the bottom of his sausage sandwich when he cast his own vote

He was snapped taking a bite of the sausage sandwich, but it was only marginally less awkward than his previous attempt at the 2016 Federal Election when he was widely mocked for biting into the middle instead of the end

Seeking to make amends for his widely-mocked sausage-eating at the 2016 Federal Election, Mr Shorten arrived at Moonee Ponds West Primary School in Melbourne on Saturday

As Mr Guy visited Sherbourne Primary School he attempted to stay upbeat despite staring down the barrel of an election loss, and at least had the faith of his mother.

'As a mother of course I think he's going to win. He's worked very hard,' Ms Guy said at the ballot box.

The couple were voting for Mr Guy's childhood friend Nick McGowan, who is hoping to unseat Labor incumbent Vicki Ward for the seat of Eltham.

'We can win seats today. It is going to be a tough road. We know that. But nothing worthwhile is easy,' he told reporters on Saturday morning.

Mr Shorten said at the time of the Bunnings kerfuffle that he didn't care if the onions were on top or the bottom of the sausage, he just liked onions

Mr Shorten casts his vote, presumably for Labor, on Saturday, hoping his fortunes will be similar at next year's federal election to what the polls predict the result will be in Victoria

Mr Guy got a frosty reception at his old school, which he first attended in 1979 and took pleasure in giving the media a tour of, with some voters taunting him.

Some made jokes about lobsters, in reference to Mr Guy having a secret lobster dinner with alleged Mafia boss and longtime Liberal donor Tony Madafferi and three of his relatives last year.

The scandal that erupted after revelations of the dinner made headlines almost toppled Mr Guy from his post as opposition leader, but he was able to recover and lead the Coalition to the election.

Another voter shook his hand but told him he 'didn't have a hope in hell', but a smiling Mr Guy put on a positive face throughout his visit to the polls.

'We've done a lot of that, more than we ever have before, much more than our opponents and we hope that it bears fruit tonight,' he said.

Researchers at Casey Station, Antarctica, snapped a photo of themselves holding sausage sandwiches as they stood in the snow and ice of the rugged landscape on election day

The Victorian Electoral Commission also gave some practical advice about when to eat them, suggesting hitting the stand while waiting in line for the ballot box. Mid-afternoon was said to be the quietest time to vote

The coalition needs a uniform swing of around three per cent to pick up the extra seven seats it needs to form a majority government in the 88-seat parliament.

Labor holds 45 seats to the Coalition's 38 and the Greens' three, and wants to build on its one-seat majority, but would be in trouble if it were to lose just two of its seats.

The latest Newspoll indicated a two-party preferred Labor victory of 53.5 per cent, leaving the Liberal-Nationals with 46.5 per cent.

The poll, which was conducted on November 21 and 22, had 41 per cent of the primary vote going to Labor, 40 to the Liberal-Nationals and 11 to the Greens.

Other pre-election polls published in The Age and Herald Sun delivered similar results, predicting Labor as the winner.

Mr Andrews and Mr Guy were out on Saturday pitching their last-minute plea to the more than two million Victorians who were still to cast their votes when polls opened at 8am.

Premier Daniel Andrews (seen voting with his with Catherine) has a clear advantage in latest opinion poll released the morning of the election giving Labor a 53.5 per cent to 46.5 per cent lead on a two-party preferred basis

Mr Andrews (voting at Albany Rise Primary School in Mulgrave) is urging voters to mark their Labor candidate number one on the ballot paper to ensure stability for the next four years

Mr Andrews is urging voters to mark their Labor candidate number one on the ballot paper to ensure stability for the next four years.

He again ruled out any deals with the Greens if they fall short, describing the party's culture as toxic.

'We need a strong, stable majority Labor government in this state and I would urge for all Victorians to vote for their local Labor candidate so we can keep on investing in the road, rail, and school infrastructure we need,' he told 9 News on Saturday.

Despite a rough end to their election campaign with multiple candidates coming under fire for unethical behaviour, the Greens remain hopeful of forming a minority government with Labor.

The party hopes to hold on to its inner-city electorates of Melbourne, Prahran and Northcote, and to gain Richmond and Brunswick.

Counting starts at 6pm when booths close. The Victorian Electoral Commission will also be counting the pre-poll ballots on Saturday night.

====== 2592 ========

MAN IN SERIOUS CONDITION AFTER BEING BITTEN BY A VENOMOUS SNAKE WHILE SWIMMING

A man has been left in a serious condition after being bitten by a venomous snake.

The 40-year-old was bitten on his ankle after exiting the water of the Nerang River in the Gold Coast, Queensland.

The man made an emergency phone call to paramedics just after midday on Saturday.

A man was bitten in the ankle by a venomous snake after swimming in the Nerang River

The 40-year-old made an emergency call to paramedics and was transported to Gold Coast University Hospital

He was transported to Gold Coast University Hospital by critical care paramedics.

Staff at the hospital told Daily Mail Australia he is still in the process of receiving treatment and is being assessed in the emergency department.

The type of snake which bit the man has not yet been identified.

====== 2593 ========

WALLABIES COACH ADMITS ‘MISLEADING’ THE PUBLIC ABOUT DUMPING STAR PLAYER

Wallabies coach Michael Cheika has admitted he misled the public on the real reason why two star players were axed ahead of a game against England.

Cheika previously said player Kurtley Beale was omitted from the team because of a different game plan for the midfielders.

Now, Cheika has conceded Beale and teammate Adam Ashley-Cooper were kicked out of the upcoming Twickenham game for bringing three women back to their hotel.

Kurtley Beale (pictured, right) and Adam Ashley-Cooper (pictured, left with wife) were kicked out of the Twickenham game for bringing three women back to their hotel

Wallabies coach Michael Cheika has admitted he misled the public on the reasons why a star player was kicked out from playing in a game

The Wallabies coach said the pair were penalised for breaching the team's protocol by allowing guests into their hotel room two weeks ago.

The women were believed to be Ashley-Cooper's sister-in-law and two friends, but it was still considered a breach of a strict rule of no visitors in hotel rooms.

While Cheika admitted he didn't give the full reason in an earlier press conference, he claimed he never lied.

'Sometimes players might lack discipline at training and that might cost them a start - nothing is ever said about it, no one comes out and makes an official statement, I've done that myself.'

The tight-lipped coach stood by his earlier comments and said Beale's form had been a genuine concern at the time he last spoke to media.

Kurtley Beale (pictured) was kicked out of the Twickenham game for breaching the team's protocol and allowing guests into their hotel

'I said he has been in and out of form this whole year, which he has been, he was on the bench last week,' Cheika said.

'I considered leaving him out of the team last week on form.

'I know that's your mentality to think everything is a cover-up, but it's not, I want to be really clear.'

Wallabies team officials backed the story on Friday after it emerged Pocock was set to miss the Twickenham clash against England after failing a late fitness test.

Crusaders forward Pete Samu has now been promoted to fill Pocock's backrow slot to face Eddie Jones's side, with winger Marika Koroibete brought on to the bench.

====== 2594 ========

PICTURED: MAN, 21, ACCUSED OF SEXUALLY ASSAULTING A WOMAN, 51, IN A PARK BEFORE CHANGING CLOTHES

A young man accused of beating up and then sexually assaulting a woman in a park was allegedly seen calmly changing his clothes moments after the attack.

CCTV footage captured the 21-year-old man wearing an hi-vis jumper with blue track pants at about midnight in Lighthorse Park, in Sydney's south-west, on November 11.

He is alleged to have stalked the 51-year-old woman before punching her several times in the face and then sexually assaulting her.

The 21-year-old fled the scene after a group of strangers heard the victim's scream and began chasing him.

Scroll down for video

The 21-year-old man (pictured) was wearing a blue and orange hi vis jumper before changing into a light coloured shirt and shorts

The man has been accused of repeatedly punching a woman before police allege he had sexually assaulted her

The group lost sight of the alleged attacker after chasing him up a set of stairs and into a laneway on George Street.

He is alleged to have made his way back to the area shortly after wearing a different outfit, with a pile of clothes kept in a plastic bag.

'The attack itself was cowardly,' Detective Inspector Dean Johnstone told media last week.

A crime scene was established by police from Liverpool Police Area Command and it was examined by forensic specialists.

The victim suffered facial injuries including lacerations, bruising, and damage to her teeth and was taken to Liverpool Hospital for treatment.

The man was arrested at a Warwick Farm address on Friday where he was charged with aggravated sexual assault inflicting actual bodily harm.

He was refused bail and will front Parramatta Local Court on Saturday.

====== 2595 ========

KATE RITCHIE REVEALS THE REAL REASON SHE'S YET TO WRITE A TELL-ALL AUTOBIOGRAPHY

She starred on long-running soap Home and Away for 20 years.

And now, Kate Ritchie, 40, has revealed why she has never penned a tell-all autobiography about her time in the spotlight.

Speaking in Confidential on Saturday, the TV starlet confessed to being 'worried' the book wouldn't sell because fans wouldn't find it interesting.

Scroll down for video

'I am probably worried': Former Home and Away star Kate Ritchie (above), 40, revealed the real reason she's yet to write a tell-all autobiography about her time in the spotlight on Saturday

'On the one hand I am probably worried that it wouldn't sell, and that I have lived this entire life that I found interesting enough to write a book about but no one wanted to hear it,' she confessed.

The actress just published her second children's book 'It's Not Scribble To Me' after writing 'I Just Couldn't Wait To Me You' in 2016.

Kate starred alongside some of Australian TV's biggest names on the Channel Seven soap series, from 1988 until her departure in 2008.

Child star: Kate starred alongside a number of big names including the late Heath Ledger (above) during her stint on Home and Away from 1988 to 2008

In that time, she starred alongside the late Hollywood star Heath Ledger, Julian McMahon, Ryan Kwanten and Melissa George.

Kate has always remained tight-lipped about her time on the show, with her since making the leap to a successful career at Nova radio.

In August, Kate revealed her most awkward celebrity interview was with country crooner Keith Urban, 51.

Penned: Kate's comments come after the radio star released her second children's book, 'It's Not Scribble To Me', after writing 'I Just Couldn't Wait To Me You' in 2016

The radio host recalled the embarrassing moment she made an off-the-cuff comment about an A-list star's appearance.

'I remember having Keith Urban in the studio once upon a time and before I could stop myself, I was telling him that he was shorter than I expected,' she told News.com.

'Now Keith is a lovely guy and probably couldn't care less what I thought about his height, but I kick myself to this day about such a silly comment.'

Awkward: The Nova radio host recalled the embarrassing moment she made an off-the-cuff comment about Keith Urban's (pictured) height in August

Kate's tied the knot with former rugby star Stuart Webb, 37, in 2010.

The couple share a four-year-old daughter Mae.

Last December, Kate addressed rumours of marriage trouble in an interview with Stellar magazine.

'It doesn't hurt my feelings, not anymore,' she said at the time.

'I think in the old days it did. There's no point in getting bogged down about what other people think is happening in my life.'

====== 2596 ========

GIRL, 7, WHO WAS MAULED BY A NEAPOLITAN MASTIFF DEVASTATED AFTER LOOPHOLE ALLOWS DOG TO KEEP LIVING

The mother of a girl who was mauled by a Neapolitan mastiff has slammed her local council after the dangerous dog called Hank was allowed to keep living.

Two years ago, Veronica made a complaint to Moreton Bay Regional Council, in Brisbane, after her then seven-year-old daughter Lizzie was bitten on the face by a neighbour's dog.

Veronica said the terrifying ordeal left her daughter with horrific facial wounds and bite marks that required surgery, but the dog was allowed to stay in the community.

Scroll down for video

Two years ago, Veronica made a complaint to Moreton Bay Regional Council after her then seven-year-old daughter Lizzie (pictured) was bitten on the face by a neighbour's dog.

Veronica said the terrifying ordeal left Lizzie (pictured) with horrific facial wounds and bite marks that required surgery, but the dog was allowed to stay in the community

'Within half an hour of us coming home, Hank was actually running by our front window, unaccompanied and unrestrained,' Veronica told A Current Affair.

That's when Veronica made a complaint to her local council, which sparked a two-year ordeal.

Following a thorough council investigation, the dog's owner Tammy was ordered to get Hank desexed and install better fencing within a specific time.

'I had no interest in charges on Tammy, no interest in her having fines, penalties, infringements ...in relation to Hank, that's a different situation,' Veronica said.

But when Tammy didn't get Hank desexed, as a result of being provided incorrect information by a council officer, the dog was seized and ordered to be destroyed.

Tammy and her partner Nathan then started a public campaign in order to save their dog Hank, who they say 'innocently nudged' Lizzie.

The dog owners held public rallies, erected signs in the neighbourhood, and created a GoFundMe page, which raised more than $17,000.

Veronica said, as a result of Tammy's campaign, her family has been tormented by the constant signage designed to save the dog from destruction.

Tammy and her partner Nathan then started a public campaign in order to save their dog Hank (pictured), who they say 'innocently nudged' Lizzie

The dog owners held public rallies, erected signs in the neighbourhood, and created a GoFundMe page for Hank (pictured), which raised more than $17,000

She said she felt physically sick when she saw the signage that painted Hank as the victim - despite the fact he 'bit a chunk out of my child's face'.

The matter eventually went before the Queensland Civil and Administrative Tribunal, and at the third appeal hearing, a shocking loophole reversed the destruction order.

Despite having caused significant injuries to Lizzie's face, the tribunal decided Hank could return to the community - under strict conditions - because there wasn't enough evidence.

After he returned home, Hank is now permanently retained in an sectioned off area of the garden that has high fencing and a gate to prevent him from getting out.

'The senior member has determined there's no evidence to the actual cause of injury,' Veronica said.

Veronica has slammed the tribunal's decision, saying: 'There was more than enough evidence of the injury, the circumstances around it, the medical records.'

After he returned home, Hank is now permanently retained in an sectioned off area of the garden that has high fencing and a gate to prevent him from getting out.

His owner's partner Nathan told A Current Affair people can make their own mind up about Hank because there is always two sides to every story.

Veronica said she was in 'utter shock' when the senior member revealed there was no actual cause of injury.

Moreton Bay regional mayor Allan Sutherland said along with having a dog comes great responsibility and at some point dog owners need to make difficult decisions.

He said the result of the tribunal ruling could set a dangerous precedent and Hank should have being seized from the very beginning.

'[Lizzie] is going to carry the injuries for the rest of her life,'he said.

Daily Mail Australia reached out to Tammy for comment.

====== 2597 ========

MONSTER SHARK IS SPOTTED OFF POPULAR SYDNEY BEACH AS LIFEGUARDS SCRAMBLE TO CALL SWIMMERS TO SHORE

A four-metre monster shark that was spotted off a popular surf beach in Sydney's eastern suburbs forced the beach's closure.

Swimmers at Maroubra beach in Sydney's eastern suburbs were forced to make a speedy exit after the shark was seen lurking in the water on Saturday morning.

The shark was seen 150 metres offshore, according to Westpac Life Saver Rescue Helicopters, who dispatched a helicopter to the scene to scour the area.

Scroll down for video

A four-metre monster shark that was spotted off a popular surf beach in Sydney's eastern suburbs forced the beach's closure on Saturday morning

Randwick Council lifeguards were quick to take action and initially closed the beach and Surf Life Saving NSW and an offshore rescue boat patrolled the waters

Swimmers at Maroubra beach in Sydney's eastern suburbs were forced to make a speedy exit after the shark was seen lurking in the water on Saturday morning

Randwick Council lifeguards were quick to take action and initially closed the beach and Surf Life Saving NSW and an offshore rescue boat patrolled the waters.

Several passers-by took to social media to share the news of the shark sighting - albeit with a bit of humour.

After thoroughly searching the area, the air patrol service confirmed on Twitter that there had been no more sightings about 11am.

'Extensive air and water search has been completed,' the message stated.

'No further sightings of any marine life. Maroubra Beach has been reopened.'

News of the monster shark comes just days after another 4.6 metre great white was hauled in from the same beach.

The shark was seen 150 metres offshore, according to Westpac Life Saver Rescue Helicopters, who dispatched a helicopter to the scene to scour the area

Several passers-by took to social media to share the news of the shark sighting - albeit with a bit of humour

On Monday, the shark was captured by Trapman Bermagui, also known as Jason, who shared the details of the find on social media.

'A 4.6m Great White Shark was caught in the beach shark net,' he posted on Facebook.

'The tail alone was 2m tall, with the pectoral fins of over 1m.

Mr Bermagui also posted several pictures of the shark, stressing that he was not the one who caught it, merely the one who found it.

Trapman Bermagui posted the finding on Facebook, telling his followers how big the shark was

The 4.6 metre shark (pictured) was captured by Trapman Bermagui, also known as Jason, at Maroubra beach on Monday

'The shark nets off Sydney are a state government run project,' he wrote.

Following the spate of shark attacks around the country, Dr Barbara Wueringer from Sharks and Rays Australia, has warned swimmers to remain vigilant as the summer season heats up.

'From the perspective of a biologist, it's really hard to tell what happened there but something must have brought these animals in,' she told Daily Mail Australia.

'Sharks are really far roaming predators so you will find them anywhere in the ocean but there must be some reason why these animals are biting people in that area.'

====== 2598 ========

ROXY JACENKO REVEALS SHE'S PAID FOR NEW $6.5 MILLION FAMILY HOME WITHOUT HUSBAND OLIVER CURTIS

Roxy Jacenko has revealed she purchased her family's new $6.5 million mega-mansion without any financial help from her husband Oliver Curtis.

And after paying for the pricey three-storey abode in the ritzy Sydney suburb of Vaucluse all on her own, she's keeping her hubby off the legal paperwork.

When asked by Domain why the PR queen had settled on the property in just her name, the 38-year-old responded: 'That's because I bought it'.

Scroll down for video

'That's because I bought it': Roxy Jacenko reveals she's keeping Oliver Curtis off the paperwork of new $6.5 million family home as she paid for it... but he's still getting his own gym!

During an exclusive chat with Daily Mail Australia in September, the beauty revealed the extraordinarily lavish renovations she has planned for their new family home.

The entrepreneurial blonde explained she would be installing a vanity room, a children's playroom, and a room just for her Hermès Birkins.

And lucky for Oliver, his wife will kindly be installing him his own home gym.

A room JUST for her Hermès Birkins! PR queen Roxy recently revealed the extraordinarily lavish renovations she has planned for the abode in the ritzy Sydney suburb of Vaucluse (pictured)

Roxy, who currently resides with her family in Sydney's North Bondi, revealed she would be working with renowned interior designer Blainey North.

The couple, along with children Pixie, seven, and Hunter, four, are expected to move into their new home in the new year.

'I have a hair and makeup room going in, a full gym for (husband) Oli and I, a bigger cinema and a playroom for the kids,' she confessed.

Roxy, however, admitted that the pièce de résistance on the ritzy renovation would be a room just for her collection of Birkins, by French designer Hermès.

Display room! The blonde powerhouse confessed that she would be creating a room JUST for her Birkin collection (above) - which is thought to be worth approximately $1 million

It's believed the blonde powerhouse has around fifteen of the exclusive bags, with a collective value of $1 million.

The prize in her collection is a black crocodile skin handbag, which Hermès has revealed has an estimated value of AUD $84,350.

Birkin bags can retail anywhere from $11,000 to $300,000.

Never one to skimp on style, the Sweaty Betty PR founder told Daily Mail Australia that some of her collection is very 'rare' and also includes a number of 'Kelly' bags.

The business-minded personality is a diehard Hermès fan, calling her collection 'art' and attending the brand's catwalk show at Paris Fashion Week in the past.

Not up to scratch! Despite the mansion, situated in Sydney's ritzy eastern suburbs being a dream for most people, Roxy said it would undergo a number of changes

Fit for the queen of Sydney's social scene, the palatial residence offers a stand-alone master suite on the top floor, steam room and a pool.

Despite it being a dream home for most, ambitious Roxy said she was all about the improvements.

As for whether it will inspire a stint on hit reality show The Block, Roxy said she was far too busy to commit to a filming schedule.

Family home! The property will be a new family home for Roxy and her family, partner Oliver (pictured) and their children (Pixie, Hunter and their Pomeranian Oreo also pictured)

Away from the renovations, Roxy and Oliver are set to reveal all in a no-holds-barred interview with Melissa Doyle on Sunday Night.

And in a new preview for the tell-all talk, an emotional Roxy is seen admitting that she had a 'nervous breakdown' following her husband's incarceration for insider trading in 2016.

'I couldn't cope,' admits the 38-year-old. 'I had a nervous breakdown.'

'How has this happened to me?' she asks herself, before Melissa says that the PR mogul 'went off the rails.'

====== 2599 ========

VICTIM OF A MAN ACCUSED OF SEXUALLY ABUSING GIRL, 7, IN A DANCE STUDIO TOILET SPEAKS OUT

A woman who was harassed by a predator accused of sexually assaulting a seven-year-old girl in a dance studio toilet has blasted the justice system and accused the parole system of 'protecting' the man.

Anthony Sampieri, who was on parole for raping a woman in 2012, was allegedly found with the young girl and his pants halfway down in Kogarah, Sydney's south, on November 15.

Mother-of-two Kristina C, who did not wish to share her last name, received vile sexual phone calls from Sampieri, 54, claiming to be 'Ron' before he violently raped a 60-year-old woman in the Illawarra region in 2012 and threatened her with a knife.

Speaking to the Daily Telegraph, the 44-year-old mother accused authorities of ignoring the safety of women by 'protecting' the convicted sex offender.

Sampieri remains under guard in hospital while recovering from liver cancer and injuries sustained when two bystanders allegedly caught him in the cubicle.

No charges have been laid.

A woman has slammed the justice system for protecting the man accused of sexually assaulting a seven-year-old girl

Anthony Sampieri, who was on parole for raping a woman in 2012, was allegedly found with the young girl and his pants halfway down in a toilet cubicle (pictured)

Ms C and three of her colleagues in a Wollongong office, south of Sydney, had asked police to show them a picture of Sampieri after receiving the disturbing phone calls.

They were denied despite Sampieri knowing the names of the woman and having access to their photos.

'We were fearful for our safety because he knew what we looked like, he knew where we worked,' she told the Daily Telegraph.

'They were protecting him just as he has been protected now.'

A comprehensive review has begun to determine how the 2012 case was handled, amid revelations the rape of a 60-year-old woman occurred while police postponed charging him over the phone calls.

When a few victims expressed concern the phone calls could escalate, police told them they didn't believe Sampieri was a threat.

The victims were 'gutted' to learn someone had been hurt, claiming that the rape could have been avoided if police acted sooner.

Mother-of-two Kristina C, who did not wish to share her last name, received dirty calls from Sampieri, 54, before he violently raped a 60-year-old woman in the Illawarra region in 2012 and threatened her with a knife (pictured: women comforted at Kogarah dance studio)

NSW Corrective Services Minister David Elliott has called for an 'urgent' briefing on how the offender received early parole.

'I am deeply troubled by the events under investigation at the Kogarah dance studio,' he said in a statement to Daily Mail Australia.

'This offender was on parole and was subject to a number of strict conditions.

'As community safety is paramount, I have asked for an urgent brief on all the circumstances which led to the offender being granted parole.'

Police will also launch their own investigation to determine why a leading senior constable did not charge Sampieri after he made a recent obscene phone call to a woman who notified Kogarah police station.

Had police notified the parole board of the phone call complaint, Sampieri's release could have been revoked and he would have been behind bars last Thursday, New South Wales Police Commissioner Mick Fuller said.

Police Commissioner Mick Fuller (right) said if police notified the parole board about the recent calls Sampieri made, he would have been locked up

Sampieri, 54, was convicted of aggravated sexual assault in July 2013 and ordered to serve at least four years behind bars, backdated to the day of the crime.

Wollongong District Court heard Sampieri was drunk and high on prescription drugs when he invited the 60-year-old woman into his home in Fairy Meadows in 2012.

The woman thought she was going to inspect two second-hand tables he had for sale, but was lured into his room after seeing the first one.

He pulled out a 25cm knife and told her 'now we're going to have some fun' before forcing her to strip and repeatedly raping her, the Illawarra Mercury reported in July 2013.

====== 2600 ========

TZIPORAH MALKAH SHARES A SELFIE WITH HANDSOME COMPANION TO MAKE BOYFRIEND JUSTIN GREEN JEALOUS

She's been dating Justin Green for couple of months now.

But it appears Tziporah Malkah likes to keep her beau on his toes as she shared a selfie with a handsome companion on Friday night.

Taking to Instagram, Tziporah wrote: 'Trying to make my Juzzie a bit jelly with this one.'

Scroll down for video

'Trying to make him jelly!' Tziporah Malkah (left) shared a selfie with handsome companion to make boyfriend Justin Green (right) jealous on Friday

But the model, formerly known as Kate Fischer, conceded Justin was too clever for her tactics.

'However, Boo, is too smart for all these games (sic) lolx.'

Meanwhile Tziporah, 45, recently divulged further details about her four-year relationship with ex fiancé and billionaire James Packer, 51.

Spill: Meanwhile Tziporah, 45, recently divulged further detail about her five-year relationship with fiancé and billionaire James Packer (left), 51

Offering a glimpse into like with the billionaire mogul during a tell-all interview on Sunday Night last week, Tziporah revealed how James endured a difficult relationship with his late father and powerful entrepreneur Kerry, who died in 2005.

And she claimed the rage he suffered at the hands of his father took its toll.

'Kerry would rage at him for hours at a time,' she said.

'He was in the shower and he just was standing there with the water running over his face, and he'd been in there 40 minutes. And this was like a daily occurrence,' Tziporah said. James is pictured with his late father Kerry Packer (right) in 2005

'He never really wanted to show me the extent of his upset, but once I did sneak a look when he thought he was alone.

'He was in the shower and he just was standing there with the water running over his face, and he'd been in there 40 minutes. And this was like a daily occurrence. So I peeked in, and he was a mess.'

Claims: 'He never really wanted to show me the extent of his upset, but once I did sneak a look when he thought he was alone... So I peeked in, and he was a mess' the former model said of her ex-fiancé James and his relationship with his father Kerry

Tziporah and James first began dating in 1994, and were known as the country's hottest couple, sharing a love nest in Sydney's Bondi.

The pair became engaged two years later, before splitting after two years of engagement in 1998

====== 2601 ========

DOCTOR STABBED 14 TIMES BY MENTAL HEALTH PATIENT BEGS FOR BETTER SECURITY AFTER A SURGEON IS KILLED

A doctor who was stabbed 14 times by a mental health patient has demanded better security in hospitals after a respected surgeon was fatally hit by an irate smoker.

On Wednesday, a jury found Joseph Esmaili guilty of killing cardiothoracic surgeon Patrick Pritzwald-Stegmann outside Box Hill Hospital in Melbourne in May 2017.

Dr Pritzwald-Stegmann suffered head injuries after he was struck by Esmaili and neurosurgeon Dr Michael Wong is now calling for improved safety, 9News reported.

Scroll down for video

Neurosurgeon Dr Michael Wong (pictured) has demanded better security in hospitals after respected surgeon Patrick Pritzwald-Stegmann was fatally hit by an irate smoker

Dr Wong (pictured on the ground), who was stabbed 14 times by a mental health patient in a frenzied attack in 2014, said the terrifying ordeal has changed his perception of hospital safety

Dr Wong, who was stabbed 14 times by a mental health patient in a frenzied attack in 2014, said the terrifying ordeal has changed his perception of hospital safety.

The neurosurgeon said he was viciously stabbed in his chest, abdomen, arms, legs, head and hands, and after months of recovery, he fears he may never operate again.

While Dr Wong welcomed Esmaili's guilty verdict, he insisted hospitals need to take better care when it comes to preventing another tragedy from happening again.

Dr Pritzwald-Stegmann, 41, was knocked to the ground by Esmaili after he asked the 24-year-old and his friends to not smoke in the non-smoking section of the hospital.

Shocking CCTV footage shows the terrifying moment when the surgeon fell backwards and hit his head on the ground so forcefully it cracked the tiles.

Dr Wong said he always feared an attack would happen again to someone else, only they wouldn't be as lucky as he was - and he now admits that fear has come true.

The neurosurgeon said he was viciously stabbed in his chest, abdomen, arms, legs, head and hands (pictured in 2014), and after months of recovery, he fears he may never operate again

Patrick Pritzwald-Stegmann (right) suffered head injuries after he was struck by Esmaili and neurosurgeon Dr Michael Wong (left) is now calling for improved safety

'This surgeon was about the same age as me, he had a young family with two children and just like me was attacked in the foyer of the hospital,' Dr Wong said.

'It's so sad and unnecessary; why aren't we doing something about this?'

Dr Wong asked how many more doctors and nurses need to be hurt, traumatised or killed before politicians wake up to the harsh reality of violence in hospital.

The neurosurgeon said violent outbursts have become a 'daily occurrence' in public hospitals, but like his own attack, Dr Pritzwald-Stegmann was attacked in a foyer.

He said foyers are typically unsupervised and could benfit from having security guards like emergency rooms, which could 'have a deterrent effect'.

'We shouldn't be working in warzones. We are not soldiers and shouldn't be put in situations like this,' he said.

====== 2602 ========

KARL STEFANOVIC'S BILLIONAIRE BEST PAL JAMES PACKER WILL SERVE AS ONE OF HIS GROOMSMEN

It has long been known that Karl Stefanovic, 44, is best pals with billionaire businessman, James Packer, 51.

And now, James will take a special place at his extravagant nuptials to Jasmine Yarbrough, 34, by serving as a groomsman.

On Friday, PS Sydney reported that James is tipped to stand alongside the Today Show presenter's two brothers Peter and Tom.

Scroll down for video

He's in the wedding party! Karl Stefanovic's (right) billionaire best pal James Packer (left), 51, is set to be one of his groomsmen at his extravagant nuptials to Jasmine Yarbrough next month

The publication has reported billionaire James bought land in Mexico at Cabos San Lucas, which is nearby where Karl and Jasmine will tie the knot.

The Today Show host reportedly had a 'mild panic' after bride-to-be Jasmine said she wanted 'seven bridesmaids' and a big Queensland wedding.

Karl and James have known to be close, with snaps first emerging of the pair on the multi-billionaire's super yacht in Bora Bora last year.

Big day: It comes after Karl reportedly had a 'mild panic' when Jasmine (left) said she wanted to have seven bridesmaids at the couple's wedding

According to The Sydney Morning Herald, Karl sat front row at James' wedding to Erica Baxter, 41, on the French Riviera in 2007.

When Karl moved out of his marital home in 2016, he reportedly stayed at James' beachfront 'bachelor pad' in Sydney's Bondi - a sign of how close the two men are.

Karl and Jasmine are set to tie the knot on December 8.

Best mates: Karl reportedly sat front row when James married model Erica Baxter (right) in 2007. Picture: The former couple in Sydney in 2008

The wedding will be a three-day affair, with the soon-to-be newlyweds sparing no expense.

They've booked two villas, one at US$8,500 (approximately AU$11,600) per night, and another for US$11000 (approximately $AU15,000) per night.

It comes after Karl revealed some candid details of what punters can expect from his upcoming Mexican nuptials.

Standing next to Peter: Peter Stefanvoic (left) will also serve as a groomsman for Karl. Peter is pictured with wife and Today Show presenter Sylvia Jeffreys

'I'm marrying a Queensland girl, there is going to be a few Queensland elements to the wedding. It's a really important thing for us,' he told The Courier-Mail.

Karl also revealed that his biggest hope was that there was 'a lot of love' for him and Jasmine on their wedding day.

'There's going to be a lot of love in the room, and I think it will be a really nice opportunity to say 'thanks and we're getting on with it',' he told the paper.

Ready to celebrate: The wedding will be a three-day affair, with the soon-to-be newlyweds sparing no expense (pictured is another couple marrying at the chapel)

Karl went on to say that the couple are 'very fortunate to have met each other' and 'just want to focus on getting on with life'.

Karl and Jasmine's guest list reportedly includes 60 people, ranging from family members to well-known public figures.

His Today show colleague Richard Wilkins will also no doubt make an appearance, bringing along his new partner Virginia Burmeister.

Wedding location: Karl and his shoe designer partner are expected to tie the knot in a picturesque chapel at the One&Only Palmilla Resort (pictured) where they'll also be staying

And, of course, Karl's manager Sharon Finnigan will be expected to attend.

Richard's son Christian Wilkins has also confirmed his attendance alongside boyfriend Andrew Kelly.

The aspiring model told Daily Mail Australia at the Melbourne Cup that he expects lots of 'tequila' at the Cabo San Lucas ceremony.

====== 2603 ========

FLIGHTS STILL BEING CANCELLED AT SYDNEY AIRPORT AS AIRLINES STRUGGLE TO CLEAR FRIDAY'S BACKLOG

Thousands of passengers are still stranded at Sydney Airport as airlines struggle to clear the backlog of Friday's cancelled flights.

Winds of more than 80km/h lashed the city over Thursday and Friday, closing all but one runway and cancelling or delaying dozens of flights.

Flights were still being cancelled on Saturday morning despite airlines trying to use bigger planes and extra services to get everyone to their destination.

Thousands of angry passengers have been left stranded at Sydney Airport as strong winds have grounded flights

Many Victorians expressed concern on social media that they would not be able to vote in Saturday's state election as their flights were again called off.

'Is there a way to be excused from voting today under special circumstances? Trying to sort this out in middle of all this is not what I signed up for,' one wrote.

More than a dozen Saturday flights were cancelled and the airport cut the number of flights allowed to arrive and depart each hour.

All airlines were affected with Jetstar cancelling seven flights already and Qantas and Virgin passengers complaining theirs were also scrapped.

'I get that there is weather around but I was supposed to be on a flight at 5pm yesterday,' a Qantas passenger said.

'My flight for midday today has now been cancelled and they are trying to put me on a flight tomorrow. This is now getting ridiculous.'

The weather bureau expected winds to only be 35km/h on Saturday and ease over the day, making getting planes in the air more likely.

Only one runway is in use at the airport due to gusts which are affecting both domestic and international flights

Delays and cancellations on Friday caused pandemonium at Sydney Airport as thousands of irate passengers flooded terminals demanding answers.

Many were forced to sleep in the airport overnight or battle with many others to book hotels and crowds formed in front of airline desks.

About 50 flights leaving Sydney and 25 flights out of Melbourne were cancelled , and a Qantas flight from Los Angeles was forced to abort its landing in Sydney.

The plane circled Sydney for 10 minutes before it landed safely.

Travellers were advised to contact their airline for more information on cancellations.

Disgruntled travellers posted about the delays on social media.

'What the hell is going on with Virgin Australia at Sydney Airport? What a joke, there must be 1000 people queuing,' one person said.

Another passenger complained about the treatment her family, including four children returning from their grandmother's funeral, received from Rex.

'You can not control the weather nor the mechanical issues that this flight had, but you can control your compassion to people in this situation,' she said.

Both Qantas and Virgin Australia are warning passengers to expect delays in both Sydney and Melbourne

'Leaving people on a plane for nearly an hour as the plane could not take off but passengers were unable to leave the plane as all airport staff had gone.

'Then once off the plane telling passengers they need to leave the terminals and calling security over to a mother who had her one-year-old son and 12-year-old sisters.'

Other travellers said the queues were 'mental' and 'chaos'.

'Airline chaos at Sydney Airport yet no announcements, no staff, no information. Epic fail Virgin Australia,' one traveller said.

A woman said she had her birthday weekend ruined due to the disruptions.

'Chaos at Sydney Airport today. Missed my flight with Virgin Australia because the queues are huge, and the flight closing queue wouldn't let me through. So there goes my birthday weekend with my family,' she said.

====== 2604 ========

TEENAGE GIRL'S DESPERATE LAST GASP TO DONATE HER ORGANS AFTER A FATAL CAR ACCIDENT IN NEW ZEALAND

A teenage girl described as having the 'biggest heart you could ever imagine' is being held on life support in a desperate bid to preserve her ability to donate organs.

An aspiring social worker with a drive to help others, 16-year-old Hollie Snell's life was cut short in a two-car crash in New Zealand's Okere Falls Sunday afternoon.

The driver of the other car died while Hollie was airlifted to Waikato Hospital with devastating head injuries she would not survive.

Now, with her family by her side and days dwindling, doctors are doing everything they can to preserve her organs for donation, a cause she was passionate about throughout her life.

Hollie Snell (pictured) is held on life support to preserve her ability to donate organs

The teenage girl is being remembered as having the 'biggest heart you could ever imagine' by her sister Larnie (pictured together)

Hollie and her family had frequently spoken about organ donation in the years leading up to the accident.

Her sister Larnie said donating an organ was like giving a 'miracle' to another family.

'In some ways it helps to know that we have provided peace and opportunity to someone else during our time of tragedy,' Larnie told Daily Mail Australia.

'Hollie would also be incredibly happy to see someone live on because of her decision to donate her organs that she no longer needs.

'She would say 'that's so cool' and more than words her smile would tell us how proud she is.'

An aspiring social worker, Hollie (pictured) was said to have always had a desire to help others

After the horrific head-on crash, Hollie was rushed to hospital and placed in an induced coma with brain swelling.

The family decided against surgery because of the risk of permanent brain damage.

Two days later, doctors and surgeons told Hollie's family they believed a portion of her brain had died.

But, because there was still blood flow to the brain, they had been able to keep Hollie on life support in a desperate attempt to allow her to donate her organs.

According to New Zealand's organ donor authority, there are more than 550 people waiting for an organ or tissue transplant, some of whom will die waiting.

The teenage girl was left with head injuries she would not survive after a horror two-car crash

Her sister Larnie says the family is staying by Hollie's bed and 'keeping her beautiful'

For now, the family remains by Hollie's bed, holding her hand, washing her hair and 'keeping her beautiful', her sister says.

'We have been snuggling her, holding her, praying with her, singing to her and covering her in a million billion kisses and just surrounding her with more love than imaginable.'

Hollie's community have flooded the family's social media pages with tributes and well-wishes, remembering the teenage girl as an 'angel'.

'You will always be like a little sister to me Hollie, I'm going to miss you more than you'd ever know,' a family friend wrote on Facebook.

A GiveALittle fundraiser for Hollie's family was started after the accident to help her parents, Dale and Davey, stay by their daughter's side.

More than $12,000 has been raised by 211 donors in less than a week.

====== 2605 ========

SYDNEY TERRORIST AHMED MERHI CLAIMS HE WAS A VOLUNTEER NURSE AFTER HE WAS SENTENCED TO DEATH

A Sydney terrorist sentenced to death in Iraq has reportedly claimed he never fought Iraqi forces and only travelled overseas to volunteer as a nurse.

Ahmed Merhi, 27, was convicted for being a member of Islamic State in the Central Criminal Court in Baghdad and was sentenced to death by hanging on Thursday.

But Merhi, who lost a leg in an air strike in 2016, has claimed he travelled to Syria for volunteer work, the Daily Telegraph reported.

The former Granville Boys High School student, from Sydney's west, travelled to Syria in 2014 or 2015.

Sydney terrorist Ahmed Merhi (pictured) who has been sentenced to death in Iraq is being held in a crammed prison cell

He has pleaded for Australia to intervene and free him from his sentence, despite turning his back on the country.

The 27-year-old told News Corp he was based in Tel Abyadh, in northern Syria, to assist with aid work. The town never fell to Islamic State.

In court, Merhi was reportedly asked whether he joined Islamic State and he said: 'I never joined'.

'I never fought Iraqi forces, and the first time I saw them was then (sic.) the Americans handed me to them,' he said.

Merhi was arrested by Kurdish soldiers in December 2017 when he was trying to escape to Turkey.

He was given to American troops who took him across the boarder and passed him on to Iraqi authorities.

Merhi, 27, was convicted for being a member of Islamic State in the Central Criminal Court in Baghdad and was sentenced to death by hanging on Thursday night

Merhi's lawyers claimed he was working for NGO Syria Charity International but the organisation is difficult to find on an English-based search online.

The former Sydney man told News Corp about his dire living conditions as he remains locked up in prison in Baghdad.

He shares a three metre by eight metre cell with 14 other criminals.

Merhi is typically fed a small plate of rice each day, some dates syrup and a small portion of jam four times a week.

He has complained about pain from his leg injury but there are claims he has not been given medicine to cope with the injury.

After enquiring with the Australian Embassy to assist with obtaining medicine, his request was declined.

Merhi's lawyers asked the Australian Embassy to pay for some of his legal expenses which was swiftly denied by officials in Sydney.

Born into a Lebanese family at Westmead Hospital in Sydney (pictured), Mehri finished school in year ten and started a job as a builder's labourer

He has, however, been visited by a consular official from the Australian Embassy based in Baghdad.

Born into a Lebanese family at Westmead Hospital in Sydney, Mehri finished school in year ten and started a job as a builder's labourer.

In his early 20s he was unemployed and became a drug-taking petty criminal.

In 2014, he developed an interest in extremist groups and began funneling money to the group.

Merhi travelled to Syria after telling his family he would complete the pilgrimage to Mecca, one of the pillars of Islam.

Instead of arriving in Saudi Arabia for the Hajj, he ventured to warn-torn Syria and ignored family pleas to come home.

In 2014, Merhi developed an interest in extremist groups and began funneling money to the group before travelling to war-torn Syria (stock image)

Merhi told News Corp he would like to come back to Australia and said Iraq had no right to prosecute him as there was no justice and no evidence or witnesses.

'I'm a good person,' he said.

The high profile Australian Islamic State supporter previously shared numerous photos to his social media accounts displaying weaponry and dressed in military uniform.

Merhi compared taking photos with guns to people who take photos with Ferraris - arguing it doesn't mean you own them.

In another comparison Merhi said taking a photo with a model didn't mean it is your wife.

Merhi was arrested alongside his cousin Tarek Khayat who is accused by Lebanese and Australian authorities of plotting to bring down an Etihad Airways flight from Sydney to Abu Dhabi.

Merhi was arrested by Kurdish soldiers in December 2017 when he was trying to escape to Turkey (stock image)

Khayat, 46, admitted to being a financial officer for the terror group Islamic State in Raqqa, Syria, and was ordered to face death by hanging.

Australian police allege Merhi was involved with extremists in Australia who were involved in a number of terror plots.

This included the murder of police accountant Curtis Cheng who was shot dead after he left work in Parramatta, Sydney, by a 15-year-old.

The teenager, Farhad Mohamad Jabar, was shot by police.

Merhi said his cousin's case was starting from scratch following investigation from the appeals court and hoped the same would happen with his case.

====== 2606 ========

SOPHIE MONK SAYS SHE AND NEW BOYFRIEND JOSHUA GROSS ARE TALKING MARRIAGE

Sophie Monk has revealed her plans to marry new boyfriend Joshua Gross after meeting him on a long-haul flight from Europe to Australia five months ago.

Despite remaining tight-lipped on their romance since then, while keeping the marketing executive's identity secret, the 38-year-old is ready to say 'I do.'

During an interview with The Daily Telegraph on Saturday, Sophie confessed that as soon as Joshua's divorce from his ex-wife is finalised, there's nothing stopping them.

Scroll down for video

'When his divorce goes through we are talking about getting married': Sophie Monk reveals her wedding plans with boyfriend of five months Joshua Gross (pictured)

'When his divorce goes through we are talking about getting married,' Sophie told the publication while gushing over her new man.

The star then revealed any upcoming nuptials would be 'on the Gold Coast in my back garden' and an intimate affair with just close friends and family.

Reflecting on her former relationships, Sophie added: 'I have waited and gone through so much s**t to meet someone so good'.

Smitten! Reflecting on her former relationships, Sophie added: 'I have waited and gone through so much s**t to meet someone so good'

Discussing their romantic first meeting at 35,000ft during an interview August, Sophie told Nova 96.9's Fitzy & Wippa they instantly hit it off.

'We were talking for hours, and then I just said, "can I kiss you?" 'cause I'm so awkward.

'And he goes, "yeah!", and I went, "could you get my toothbrush out of that little case?"

'And so he got toothpaste out and a toothbrush and we both went and brushed our teeth and then, yeah... I've been talking to him ever since'.

Has she finally met the one? Discussing their romantic first meeting at 35,000ft in August, Sophie told Nova 96.9's Fitzy & Wippa they instantly hit it off

Since that first meeting, Joshua appears to have got the seal of approval from Sophie's close-knit family, having recently joined the beauty at her sister's wedding.

It is believed Joshua has been helping Sophie as she recovered from her recent endometriosis surgery too, which she admitted she had 'underestimated'.

Captioning her only online photograph with Joshua following her recent surgery, Sophie wrote: 'So lucky to have this guy in my life to help me recover'.

Her hero: It is believed Joshua has been helping Sophie as she recovered from her recent endometriosis surgery, which she admitted she had 'underestimated'

Sophie's last public relationship was with Stu Laundy, who won her heart during The Bachelorette on Channel 10 in 2017.

However, their relationship soon fell apart after the show finale aired last November.

It seems Sophie will be keeping this romance a lot more low-key, admitting that Joshua 'doesn't want publicity.'

====== 2607 ========

SCHOOLIES COME CLEAN ON THEIR OUTRAGEOUS ANTICS AS THEY KEEP SHOCKING ONLOOKERS ON THE GOLD COAST

Schoolies is living up to its notorious reputation as the wildest graduate celebration in Australia.

Online blogger Jamie Zhu went into the belly of the beast on Queensland's Gold Coast to capture some of the annual celebration's outrageous antics.

Footage of teenage girls kissing and sucking suggestively on the host's microphone are peppered throughout the five-and-a-half minute video, which has been viewed more than 1.1million times.

Scroll down for video

Video has emerged on social media of school leavers celebrating Schoolies on Queensland's Gold Coast

The vision, which has been viewed more than 1.1million times, was posted to Facebook as thousands of school leavers descended on the Gold Coast

Rowdy Schoolies-goers have their eyebrows and entire head of hair shaved off while one party-goer sucks on her friends foot.

Chair of the Gold Coast Schoolies Advisory Group Mark Reaburn told the Gold Coast Bulletin some Schoolies-goers would get up to 'mischief'.

'Kids will be kids, and ultimately they have to take responsibility for their actions,' he said.

One teenage girl bragged that she 'f***ed a Red Frog and he was so mint.'

Red Frogs founder Andy Gourley hit back at the claim and said the organisation had to follow strict policies.

'As per the State Government response all Red Frog volunteers come in line with the Department of Child Safety policy with Blue card and volunteer checks, are always in groups, never alone, and under the direction of a team leader.'

TV's Love Island contestant Charlie Taylor and social media star Justin Ryan also appeared in the video as they partied on the Gold Coast.

Even the less-favourable toolies made an appearance.

Mr Gourley said the video should not be taken as an illustration of the entire Schoolies experience.

'This hasn't been typical behaviour for over a couple of decades now, most schoolies these days aren't as big drinkers, and quite a few are not drinking at all.'

A man taking part in Schoolies celebrations was captured having his hair shaved off

Despite the outrageous antics, a Queensland Police Service spokeswoman said arrests were down and police were pleased with the overall behaviour.

She said only a 'handful of schoolies' had come to 'police attention' each night, a good outcome considering the huge scores of revellers that turned up to the coastal city.

Nearly 21,000 Queensland graduates showed to the rowdy celebrations during its first week, a bump up on previous years.

Next week, about 12,000 graduates from New South Wales, Victoria and New Zealand will have their turn and show up to the nightclub precinct.

====== 2608 ========

AMY SHARK DEFENDS HER MEGA SUCCESSFUL CAREER DESPITE SOME PEOPLE THINKING SHE'S A 'SELLOUT'

After skyrocketing to fame with her debut album, Love Monster, earlier this year, Amy Shark has found herself having to defend her lucrative career.

In an interview with The Daily Telegraph on Saturday, the 32-year-old musician said it's difficult to be taken seriously as a pop star.

'It's quite a hard thing to get right, to be proficient in pop music and not be thought a sellout by people who don't get it,' she told the newspaper.

Scroll down for video

'I'm proud of my music and pop is sick': Amy Shark (pictured) defended her mega successful career on Saturday, despite some people thinking she's a 'sellout'

'I am happy to be called a pop music artist. I'm proud of my music and pop is sick.'

But while people may love to hate on pop music, Amy believes there's never been a better time to be a female artist.

In an interview with InStyle Australia in July, she said women in music are at the top of their game.

Making music: In an interview with The Daily Telegraph on Saturday, the 32-year-old musician said it's difficult to be taken seriously as a pop star

Defensive: 'It's quite a hard thing to get right, to be proficient in pop music and not be thought a sellout by people who don't get it,' she told the newspaper

'I think we're ruling the world right now. Every song that I’m hearing and Shazam-ing is a female artist, it's super inspiring,' she told the magazine.

'And everyone's got their own genre, I don't feel like there’s many people in competition, there are no female artists that I look at and think I'm in competition with.

'Everyone's got their signature sound right now and its awesome that people are digging for that.'

Owning it: 'I am happy to be called a pop music artist. I'm proud of my music and pop is sick,' Amy said

Walking away: While she may be one of 2018's reigning female artists, Amy admitted she almost gave up on her music career altogether

But while she may be one of 2018's reigning female artists, Amy admitted she almost gave up on her music career altogether.

In an interview with Junkee in April, she said she was fed up with getting nowhere after years of trying to break into the industry.

'I had just been doing it for so long. You can only do something for so long with no recognition,' she told the website.

'I was putting in so much money into something that wasn't giving anything back. Not that I wanted money back, I just wanted anything back.

'And nothing was really coming back, so I just thought, "I’m not gonna put as much effort in anymore. I'll still write music because I love writing songs but I'm not gonna force it on people anymore."'

====== 2609 ========

RACHAEL FINCH FLAUNTS HER FLEXIBLE FORM AS SHE BALANCES ONE YEAR-OLD SON DOMINIC ON HER PERFECT PINS

She's a fitness entrepreneur known for her flawless beauty.

But on Saturday, Rachael Finch showcased her powerful physique as she balanced her one-year-old son Dominic on her gym-honed pins.

Sharing the image to Instagram, the mum-of-two also explained she and her family were jetting to Townsville after high winds at Sydney airport cancelled her flight the day before.

Flying high! Rachael Finch (pictured) flaunted her flexible form as she balanced one-year-old son Dominic (pictured) on her perfect pins on Saturday... after revealing she 'gave birth in activewear'

She wrote: '(sic) FLYYYYing up to Townsville today (take two from the windy conditions yesterday)!'

Clad in a black halter top and leopard print sarong, the Dancing With The Stars alum, 30, revealed she and husband Michael Miziner, Dominic and their four year-old daughter, Violet, would be staying at the luxurious Orpheus Island resort.

'Can''t wait to see the fam and spend some time on @orpheusisland. Hope you have a beautiful weekend planned guys!' Rachael wrote.

High times: Sharing the image to Instagram, the mum-of-two also explained she and her family were jetting to Townsville after high winds at Sydney airport cancelled her flight the day before. Pictured: Rachael Finch

The getaway comes after the designer revealed she gave birth while wearing activewear.

Speaking to BW Magazine on Saturday, Rachael admitted lycra had played a part in some of the most precious moments in her life.

'I gave birth to both my children in activewear,' she told the publication.

Special moments: The getaway comes after the designer revealed she gave birth to daughter, Violet (left), 4, and one year-old Dominic (right) while wearing activewear

'I met my husband in activewear, I traveled around the world in activewear and every day I get up and open that second drawer which is full of activewear.'

She added: 'There's no denying activewear is my life.'

Rachael, a former beauty pageant queen, launched her own fitness program Body By Finch in 2017.

====== 2610 ========

IS THAT YOU, BRAITH? ANASTA HAS FUN PLAYING DRESS UPS IN A PINK BOW AND MATCHING SUNGLASSES

Ex NRL player Braith Anasta is not afraid to express the many facets of his character.

The star's girlfriend Rachael Lee posted a picture to Instagram on Saturday showing Braith, 36, wearing a pink bow in his hair, with a pair of matching sunglasses on his face.

Rachael captioned the picture: 'Father of two girls. He loves it!'

Scroll down for video

Is that you, Braith? Ex NRL star Anasta had fun playing dress ups in a pink bow and matching sunglasses on Saturday

Braith joined in the fun, writing, '#winner', on the post in response.

Sporting icon Braith, the youngest ever player to captain the Bulldogs, clearly relishes his role as a dad.

In September, the Dally M medal winner revealed what his typical day entails as life as a father to newborn daughter, Gigi.

The star's girlfriend Rachael Lee posted a picture to Instagram on Saturday showing Braith, 36, wearing a pink bow in his hair, with a pair of matching sunglasses on his face. Rachael captioned the picture: 'Father of two girls. He loves it!'

'I would get Gigi out into the lounge room': The football star turned commentator said that he normally takes the 'morning shift' allowing girlfriend Rachael to have two hours extra of sleep. Pictured: Braith and Rachael's daughter Gigi

He revealed he has a very modern parenting style, taking care of 'morning shift'.

'I'd get up between 5.30am and 6am and I would get Gigi out into the lounge room, play with her and feed her,' he said.

Braith, who shares a daughter Aleeia, 4, with former Neighbours star and ex-wife Jodi Gordon, went on to say he makes breakfast for her and Rachael's son Addison.

'I get half a day to spend with the family and helping out at home and then the nights I'm at work': Braith went on to say that his work allowed him to be at home in the mornings

Braith parted ways with Jodi in 2015. Despite their personal differences, the pair happily co-parent their daughter Aleeia.

Braith confirmed his romance with brunette Rachael Lee on Christmas Day in 2016, with the pair moving in together in early 2017.

In January this year, Rachael gave birth to daughter Gigi.

'I get up at 5.30am, feed her, play with her': Former NRL star Braith Anasta (left), 36, has revealed how he shares parenting duties of his newborn daughter with girlfriend, Rachael Lee (right)

The doting father added he likes to allow Rachael a chance to 'sleep in' as she is usually up all night with their daughter, who he admits 'doesn't sleep'.

'[I'll] get them breakfast,' the Fox Sports commentator said.

'I try to get them ready for school and do the drop off,' he finished.

The former elite athlete still has a major focus on fitness, with him then confessing he goes on to spend a couple of hours in the gym each day.

====== 2611 ========

'LISTENING TO THE EARTH'S SOUL SETS US FREE!': ALI OETJEN GOES NEW AGE AT THE GREAT BARRIER REEF

She recently found her prefect match in Taite Radley on The Bachelorette, and it is clear that Ali Oetjen is still in the throes of new love.

The blonde bombshell, 32, took to Instagram on Saturday to share a photo of herself in a black swimsuit while standing on the shore of a beach at Australia's picturesque Great Barrier Reef.

Ali, showing off her curvy figure in side profile, captioned the shot: 'Filling our lives with adventures, not things, and listening to the earth's soul inspiring, beautiful music that sets us free!'

Scroll down for video

'Listening to the earth's soul sets us free!': Ali Oetjen (pictured) went New Age on a beach at the Great Barrier Reef on Saturday

Ali's followers praised the reality star for her positivity, with one writing: 'Focusing on the important things! These adventure will stay with you forever.'

Another follower, however, could not resist taking a potshot at her partner, Taite, writing: 'Ali you deserve better and Taite, he only reply for The Bacholertte because he only wanted to be famous and he thought it will be funny.'

Ali's fans rushed to the couple's defence, however, with one commenting: 'Why would you say that. Does anyone tell you who to date?'

Ali, showing off her curvy figure in side profile, captioned the shot: 'Filling our lives with adventures, not things, and listening to the earth's soul inspiring, beautiful music that sets us free!'

Are Ali and Taite Radley (right) the most shameless couple in Australia? Their first week together included 100 selfies, 25 branded posts and fake 'baby news' after Bachelorette finale (Pictured is an example of their branded uploads, with this loved-up snap endorsing a boutique resort, private sailing experience and tourism organisation)

Indeed, Ali and Taite have achieved more in their first week as a couple than most manage in a lifetime, after finally being able to go public with their romance.

Since The Bachelorette finale aired last Thursday, the lovers have shared more than 100 selfies online, tagged 25 companies and teased some non-existent 'baby news' to fans.

And as their oversharing sways more towards self-promotion than satisfying their followers, have they become Australia's most shameless couple in just one week?

Flying high: The majority of Ali and Taite's endless posts from their first week as a public couple have contained countless tags to various brands and organisations

In their first seven days as a couple that no longer have to hide their romance, Ali, 32, and Taite, 28, have captured every moment together and posted it on Instagram.

And as they continue their loved-up trip to Queensland, almost every post from the pair have tags of a company of some kind, suggesting aspects may be free.

Daily Mail Australia can reveal that the brands they have repeatedly promoted online this past week include two luxury boutique resorts and a tourism organisation.

So much to share: Their constant selfies totalled over 100

Their list of never-ending endorsements also includes seven clothing brands, a celeb stylist, makeup artist, hairdresser and both a brand of eyelash and hair extensions.

And the list of brands Ali and Taite have prompted in just one week, who may have provided their services for free, does not end there.

They have also shared exclusive content promoting a helicopter charter service, private sailing experience and a car rental service.

'Love is something you become,' Ali wrote alongside one selfie with Taite, which was both geotagged at their luxury hotel and linked to the company's direct profile

Promoting the hotels they've stayed at even further, Ali and Taite have also tagged themselves in shots showcasing activities on offer including couples yoga.

'Love is something you become,' Ali wrote alongside one selfie with Taite, which was both geotagged at their luxury hotel and linked to the company's direct profile.

In the midst of their trip, Ali also shared one post, with what appeared to be a throwback picture, dedicated to an organic superfood supplements company.

Meanwhile, the pair's constant selfies posted on their Instagram pages and stories, totalled over 100.

====== 2612 ========

'I GAVE BIRTH IN ACTIVEWEAR!' RACHAEL FINCH REVEALS SHE WORE LYCRA WHILE IN LABOUR WITH HER CHILDREN

She balances life as a fitness entrepreneur and model with her duties as a mother-of-two.

And Rachael Finch has revealed she wore activewear during the most precious moments of her life - including welcoming her kids Violet, 4 and one year-old Dominic, into the world.

'I gave birth to both my children in activewear,' she told BW Magazine on Saturday.

Scroll down for video

'I gave birth in activewear!' On Saturday, Rachael Finch (pictured) revealed she wore lycra while in labour with her children and admits casual apparel has been part of her most precious moments. The model and fitness guru is pictured (right) with her kids Violet, 4 and one year-old Dominic

'I met my husband in activewear, I traveled around the world in activewear and every day I get up and open that second drawer which is full of activewear.'

The 30 year-old added: 'There's no denying activewear is my life.'

Rachael, a former beauty pageant queen, launched her own fitness program Body By Finch in 2017 alongside her husband Michael Miziner.

'There's no denying activewear is my life!' Rachael, 30, regularly shares videos of her workout sessions at home, which often feature her two children making cameo appearances

She regularly shares videos of her workout sessions at home, which often feature her two children making cameo appearances.

Speaking to Woman's Health about her secret to maintaining a healthy body while raising children earlier this year, Rachael revealed that well-timed workouts are the key to success.

'I think you've just got to try to work with them and work within their nap times and getting a routine in place,' she explained.

Mumtrepreneur: Rachael, a former beauty pageant queen, launched her own fitness program Body By Finch in 2017

She also urged her fans not to shy away from asking for help when necessary.

'I'm grateful that my husband is not only my life partner but my business partner as well. We work at home together, we live at home, we often manage the kids together,' she said.

Rachael fell in love with Michael on Dancing with the Stars, where he was employed as a professional dancer.

====== 2613 ========

EMILIE DE RAVIN REVEALS HER SECRET REMEDY FOR BURNS

She's set to welcome her first son in the coming months.

And Emilie De Ravin has revealed she's prepared for any accidents that may happen, after sharing her homemade secret for burns.

Taking to Instagram on Thursday, the Lost actress, 36, appeared to have scalded her arm.

'It actually really works!' Emilie De Ravin (pictured) revealed her secret remedy for burns on Thursday... as she prepares for the birth of her second child with fiance Eric Bilitch

'So if you burn yourself like I did, smartly, this really works,' she said, before showing the burn covered in mustard.

'You just put yellow on, or I tried dijon mustard too, it actually really works!'

The star added the hashtag '#doyouhaveanygreypoupoun', referencing the US mustard brand.

Great tip: Taking to Instagram on Thursday, the Lost actress, 36, appeared to have scalded her arm. 'So if you burn yourself like I did, smartly, this really works,' she said, before showing the burn covered in mustard. 'You just put yellow on, or I tried dijon mustard too, it actually really works!'

The lifehack comes as Emilie gears up to welcome her second child.

Back in June, she took to Instagram to reveal the good news.

Sharing a selfie, the Australian actress wrote: 'Coming this fall... Baby boy makes 4! Eric and I could not be more excited to share our happy news with y’all, and Vera is over the moon about becoming a big sister!'

In the photo, the blonde beauty is seen lying on a patch of grass holding up a Clear Blue pregnancy test.

The couple welcomed their first child together two-year-old daughter Vera Audrey de Ravin-Bilitch, in March 2016.

The actress got engaged to director Bilitch in July 2016, a few months after their daughter was born.

====== 2614 ========

VANCE JOY CUTS A DAPPER FIGURE IN TAILORED GREY ATTIRE AT THE GQ MEN OF THE YEAR AWARDS IN MADRID

He's an ARIA award-winning musician who's topped the charts and sold out stadiums around the world.

But on Thursday night, Vance Joy was every inch the Hollywood leading man in a dapper attire as he attended the GQ Men of the Year bash in Madrid, Spain.

The 30-year-old Melbourne crooner cut a handsome figure in a tailored grey suit as he walked the black carpet.

Scroll down for video

Suits him well! Vance Joy (pictured) cut a dapper figure in tailored grey attire as he attended the GQ Men of The Year awards in Madrid, Spain, on Thursday

Pairing the dashing suit with a white shirt and black tie combo, the singer showcased his model good looks in the polished ensemble.

Attending the glitzy bash in the Spanish capital, the Riptide hitmaker was nominated for the Musician of the Year award.

The singer took to Instagram to voice his gratitude, writing: 'Thank you GQ Spain for nominating me as "musician of the year" and having me as a guest at your awards last night. V fun night.'

Cover star: The 30-year-old Melbourne crooner cut a handsome figure in a tailored grey suit as he walked the black carpet

Meanwhile TV presenter Joel Creasey, 28, revealed there was no more animosity between him and Vance after the two butted heads at last year's ARIAs.

Bad blood began between the pair at the music industry's night of nights after the Take Me Out host's boyfriend Jack Stratton-Smith reportedly heard the musician bad-mouthing Joel backstage.

Speaking about the incident, The Riptide singer defended his comments in an interview with the Herald Sun earlier this year.

Stepping out: Pairing the dashing suit with a white shirt and black tie combo, the singer showcased his model good looks in the polished ensemble as he posed with his brunette companion

'Joel was introducing a category with Julia Michaels, the singer/songwriter,' the artist told the publication.

'He was just being himself, being funny, but at the time I mistakenly interpreted what he was saying as hanging her out to dry. I felt like he was about throw her under the bus so I verbalised my negativity.'

But speaking to Daily Mail Australia in September, the 28-year-old comedian hinted their feud had died down after Vance claimed he had just misinterpreted one of the comedian's jokes as mean-spirited.

Joel described Vance's public response as 'super classy' and added: 'Good to see he has a good sense of humour and I'm still a fan of his music.'

====== 2615 ========

MODEL CHRISTIAN WILKINS SPARKLES IN SEQUINNED GOLD SHORTS ALONGSIDE BOYFRIEND ANDREW KELLY IN SYDNEY

He's hardly known for being a wallflower, but Christian Wilkins definitely stood out from the pack when he attended the launch party for Swarovski's Follow the Light collection in Sydney on Friday.

Wearing a pair of wide-leg gold sequinned shorts, the 23-year-old model posed confidently for photos ahead of the event.

He also wore a long-sleeve cream-coloured shirt with a pussycat bow, and carried a cross-body bag.

Scroll down for video

Making an entrance: Christian Wilkins (pictured) definitely stood out from the pack when he attended the launch party for Swarovski's Follow the Light collection in Sydney on Friday

Christian rounded out his look with a pair of lace-up black leather shoes and white socks.

The son of TV reporter Richard Wilkins was accompanied by his longtime boyfriend, Andrew Kelly.

Andrew opted for a similarly eclectic ensemble, stepping out in a mint green lace blouse, which he wore over a white tank top.

Date night: The son of TV reporter Richard Wilkins was accompanied by his longtime boyfriend, Andrew Kelly (right)

He also wore pale blue denim cut-off shorts, which he teamed with brown slide-on mules with fur trim, and brown Gucci logo-print socks.

He accessorised with a black porkie pie hat and black leather belt.

The couple have become a fixture on the Sydney social circuit in recent months, but Christian admits he wasn't always so comfortable being himself.

Shine on: Wearing a pair of wide-leg gold sequinned shorts, the 23-year-old model posed confidently for photos ahead of the event

Speaking to News.com.au in July, Christian said it took him a long time to accept his sexuality.

'There was a phase when I didn’t like the fact that I was gay. It was very hard for me to articulate [problems] because I didn't really understand them completely,' he admitted.

'I think I am very confident but I think that confidence comes from having low self-esteem. I have come to a point now where I do really like myself… but when I was younger… I was a weird, arty gay kid that didn’t really fit in.'

On the scene: The couple have become a fixture on the Sydney social circuit in recent months, but Christian admits he wasn't always so comfortable being himself

Despite his newfound confidence though, Christian said he's never officially come out, claiming his sexuality was never something he hid to begin with.

'I truly was never in, and I never felt the need to say "I am gay",' he added.

====== 2616 ========

ARE ALI OETJEN AND TAITE RADLEY THE MOST SHAMELESS COUPLE IN AUSTRALIA AFTER JUST ONE WEEK?

Ali Oetjen and Taite Radley have achieved more in their first week as a couple than most manage in a lifetime, after finally being able to go public with their romance.

Since The Bachelorette finale aired last Thursday, the lovers have shared over 100 selfies online, tagged 25 companies and teased some non-existent 'baby news' to fans.

And as their oversharing sways more towards self-promotion than satisfying their followers, have they become Australia's most shameless couple in just one week?

Scroll down for video

Are Ali Oetjen and Taite Radley the most shameless couple in Australia? Their first week together included 100 selfies, 25 branded posts and fake 'baby news' after Bachelorette finale (Pictured is an example of their branded uploads, with this loved-up snap endorsing a boutique resort, private sailing experience and tourism organisation)

In their first seven days as a couple that no longer have to hide their romance, Ali, 32, and Taite, 28, have captured every moment together and posted it on Instagram.

And as they continue their loved-up trip to Queensland, almost every post from the pair have tags of a company of some kind, suggesting aspects may be free.

Daily Mail Australia can reveal that the brands they have repeatedly promoted online this past week include two luxury boutique resorts and a tourism organisation.

Their list of never-ending endorsements also includes seven clothing brands, a celeb stylist, makeup artist, hairdresser and both a brand of eyelash and hair extensions.

Flying high: The majority of Ali and Taite's endless posts from their first week as a public couple have contained countless tags to various brands and organisations

So much to share: Their constant selfies totalled over 100

And the list of brands Ali and Taite have prompted in just one week, who may have provided their services for free, does not end there.

They have also shared exclusive content promoting a helicopter charter service, private sailing experience and a car rental service.

Promoting the hotels they've stayed at even further, Ali and Taite have also tagged themselves in shots showcasing activities on offer including couples yoga.

'Love is something you become,' Ali wrote alongside one selfie with Taite, which was both geotagged at their luxury hotel and linked to the company's direct profile.

In the midst of their trip, Ali also shared one post, with what appeared to be a throwback picture, dedicated to an organic superfood supplements company.

'Love is something you become,' Ali wrote alongside one selfie with Taite, which was both geotagged at their luxury hotel and linked to the company's direct profile

Meanwhile, the pair's constant selfies posted on their Instagram pages and stories, totalled over 100.

Some of the content they've chosen to share, mostly always containing one kind of branded tag, include Taite licking Ali, and Ali showcasing her busty swimwear.

The couple have also been trailed by paparazzi for the duration of their post-Bachelorette break, but it seems newly-famous Taite hasn't minded.

Living their best life? Their list of never-ending endorsements also included seven clothing brands, celeb stylist, makeup artist, hairdresser and brand of eyelash and hair extensions

Were these freebies? Even more posts, plugging a car rental service and room service meal, suggest these could have been sponsored and gifted to the couple at no cost

After the pair put on a loved-up display in Sydney Airport last Friday, Taite later went on to share one of the professional press images to his own Instagram profile.

While being photographed during their trip, the couple also appeared to put on show for spectators, including getting frisky on a public beach at one point.

Whereas Ali and Taite may simply be enjoying opportunities that have presented themselves and the fact they no longer have to hide, it does appear they are also both mutually enjoying the speculation and hype surrounding their romance.

'Baby news': After an Australian magazine stated that the couple were expecting twins, rather than dismiss the news directly on their pages, they teased it and left fans guessing

Too far? Taite also attached a picture of a pregnancy test, with the result blocked out by a baby emoji, before revealing hours later live on TV that Ali is not expecting

After an Australian magazine stated that the couple were expecting twins, rather than dismiss the news directly on their pages, they teased it and left fans guessing.

'Back on The Project tonight addressing the baby news,' Taite wrote on his Instagram Story while actively creating more excitement around the non-existent fetuses.

He also attached a picture of a pregnancy test, with the result blocked out by a baby emoji, before revealing hours later live on TV that Ali is not expecting.

'We're definitely not pregnant,' Ali said while on the Channel 10 show, during a live-link filmed from the luxury boutique the pair had been promoting that day.

====== 2617 ========

KARL STEFANOVIC AND JASMINE YARBROUGH ALREADY LEGALLY MARRIED?

Karl Stefanovic is due to marry Jasmine Yarbrough in Mexico on December 8.

And a source said on Saturday that the couple have already obtained the required marriage license before they officially tie the knot.

'Karl and Jasmine have secured their marriage licence ahead of their wedding in Mexico,' the source told Daily Mail Australia.

Scroll down for video

Almost man and wife! Karl Stefanovic and Jasmine Yarbrough (pictured) have secured their wedding licence ahead of their Mexican nuptials, a source confirmed to Daily Mail Australia on Saturday

'It was done recently ... both are looking forward to celebrating with their family and friends in Mexico,' the source added.

Daily Mail Australia has reached out to Karl and Jasmine for comment.

When the couple marry in Mexico, their nuptials will be legally recognised in Australia, provided they have completed the required paperwork.

Getting ready for the big day! 'Karl and Jasmine have secured their marriage licence ahead of their wedding in Mexico,' the source told Daily Mail Australia on Saturday

'The marriage licence was done recently ... both are looking forward to celebrating with their family and friends in Mexico,' the source added. Karl is pictured with his family including brother Peter (far right) and mother Jenny (centre)

The first of the celebrations: The couple held a commitment ceremony at Palm Beach in Sydney in March

The couple held a commitment ceremony in Sydney in March.

Karl, 44, and Jasmine 34, had an intimate ceremony where they pledged their love for one another at a $13 million Palm Beach mansion, on Sydney's Northern Beaches.

The TV host took the week following the ceremony off from the Today show, with the couple thought to be honeymooning in the South Pacific.

Wedding location: Karl and his shoe designer partner are expected to tie the knot in a picturesque chapel at the One&Only Palmilla Resort (pictured) where they'll also be staying

Karl and Jasmine are expected to tie the knot in a picturesque chapel at the One&Only Palmilla Resort in the seaside town of San Jòse del Cabo, where they will also be staying.

The wedding will be a three-day affair, with the soon-to-be newlyweds sparing no expense.

They've booked two villas, one at US$8,500 (approximately AU$11,600) per night, and another for US$11000 (approximately $AU15,000) per night.

Ready to celebrate: The wedding will be a three-day affair, with the soon-to-be newlyweds sparing no expense (pictured is another couple marrying at the chapel)

According to a Sydney Morning Herald report, Karl's children from his first marriage to Cassandra Thorburn, Jackson, 19, Ava, 13 and River, 13, will travel to Mexico with Karl and Jasmine.

However, the paper went on to claim that the three siblings will not attend the actual wedding ceremony.

Nice views! They've booked two villas, one at US$8,500 (approximately AU$11,600) per night, and another for US$11,000 (approximately $AU15,000) per night

Relaxing: Karl and Jasmine are expected to get married in Mexico on December 8 before heading home to enjoy the Christmas holidays with family

Also missing will be the shoe designer's 92-year-old grandmother Isabel who cannot endure the flight all the way to San Jòse del Cabo for the big day.

Jasmine's parents Cheryl and Bobby hosted a high tea earlier this month so that her beloved nan could be included.

Among those on the guest list are reportedly Jasmine's Mara & Mine business partner Tamie Ingham and her sister Katie, James Packer and his girlfriend Kylie Lim.

Joined in: Jasmine's parents Cheryl and Bobby hosted a high tea so that her beloved nan Isabel (pictured) could be included. The 92-year-old grandmother can't endure the flight all the way to San Jòse del Cabo for the big day

Also rumoured to be attending are Richard Wilkins and his girlfriend Virgina Burmeister, and Karl's manager Sharon Finnigan.

It comes after Karl revealed some candid details of what punters can expect from his upcoming Mexican nuptials.

'I'm marrying a Queensland girl, there is going to be a few Queensland elements to the wedding. It's a really important thing for us,' he told The Courier-Mail.

Karl revealed some candid details of what punters can expect from his nuptials: 'I'm marrying a Queensland girl, there is going to be a few Queensland elements to the wedding. It's a really important thing for us,' he told The Courier-Mail

Karl also revealed that his biggest hope was that there was 'a lot of love' for him and Jasmine on their wedding day.

'There's going to be a lot of love in the room, and I think it will be a really nice opportunity to say "thanks and we're getting on with it",' he told the paper.

Karl went on to say that the couple are 'very fortunate to have met each other' and 'just want to focus on getting on with life'.

Good will: Karl also revealed that his biggest hope was that there was 'a lot of love' for him and Jasmine on their wedding day

He went on to reveal that after the destination wedding in Los Cabos, he and Jasmine will spend the remainder of their honeymoon back home.

As their nuptials take place prior to Christmas, the newlyweds will head back to Queensland to visit with Karl's mother Jenny over the holiday season.

'We've got to go see my mum up in Cairns, which is going to be hot, and we've got other family in Queensland, so we're just going to be hanging around which is going to be so nice,' he said.

The couple confirmed their engagement in February, with New Idea reporting Karl had popped the question to Jasmine during a holiday in Fiji.

====== 2618 ========

KYLE SANDILANDS LAUGHS NERVOUSLY AS HE GETS HIS NOSE WAXED

He recently revealed his new slimmed-down figure after embarking on a strict new diet and fitness regimen.

And Kyle Sandilands' path to self-improvement continued on Thursday, as the shock jock had his nose waxed.

Caught on camera by longtime girlfriend Imogen Anthony, the 47-year-old radio star can be seen lying down with hair remover and cotton buds sticking out of his nose at a beauty salon in Sydney.

The transformation continues! Kyle Sandilands laughs nervously as he gets his nose waxed... after revealing his slimmed-down figure thanks to a strict new diet and fitness regimen

Posting the clip to Instagram with the caption 'our dates with @denellesalon', an unseen Imogen is heard giggling in the background as Kyle laughs nervously before the painful treatment.

'Oh babe, what are you doing?' he asks as Imogen zooms in on his face.

Kindly, the blonde switches the camera off before Kyle undergoes the eye-watering procedure.

The final moments: Caught on camera by longtime girlfriend Imogen Anthony, the 47-year-old is seen lying down with hair remover and cotton buds sticking out of nose at a beauty salon in Sydney

His girl: Pictured is Imogen Anthony

The treatment comes as Kyle continues on a strict diet and fitness regime of 'no sugar and green juices'.

Determined to slim down, the shock jock appeared in a photo shared by KIIS FM, flaunted his shrinking frame as he posed with cookbook author Yumi Stynes while holding a cheesecake.

And while fans raved about his healthy new look, Imogen, 27, made a sweet comment about her man to encourage him to keep going with his new diet.

Green juice and NO sugar: Meanwhile, Kyle revealed his slimmed-down figure on Wednesday after going on a strict diet, left. He is pictured on the right in 2015 when he infamously whipped off his T-shirt on The Morning Show

'Don't eat it, babe! He's been so good on the green juices and no sugar diet!! Very proud,' she commented.

Kyle's diet comes after a series of worrying health issues for the often controversial star.

The radio star, whose weight tipped the scales at 135kg last year, has taken a number of sick days in recent months.

'He's been so good on the green juices and no sugar diet!! Very proud!' Imogen gushed over Kyle's efforts to drop the pounds





====== 2619 ========

KIIS FM PERSONALITY BEAU RYAN REVEALS THE X-RATED FAN ENCOUNTER THAT LEFT WIFE KARA FURIOUS

Beau Ryan has revealed how the simple use of an emoji recently led to an X-rated encounter with a female fan, leaving his wife Kara furious.

On Friday, the former NRL star turned KIIS FM personality, 33, recalled the raunchy exchange on The Kyle and Jackie O Show.

Light-hearted Beau said he was 'big emoji man', but the use of them have led to big miscommunications in the past.

Scroll down for video

'So, I open up my phone and I get a response': Beau said of the interaction with a female fan who sent him a nude with it causing tension with his wife Kara Ryan

'I like emojis, I do emojis big time,' Beau explained. 'I'm massive on emojis ... I love all the different ones.'

But the mood-describing animations recently landed the former sportsman in big trouble.

Beau told of how a fan of The Kyle and Jackie O Show sent him an innocent message on Wednesday.

Furious: 'We talked about it': Beau told listeners the blue love heart that he sent to a fan made his wife Kara furious, after the couple had conversations about the meanings of the emojis

'She just said how much she loved the show,' he explained.

The funnyman went on to say that he wanted to reply so he opted to choose the common 'blue love heart', the 'friendly heart.'

The interaction then got very raunchy, when Beau next checked his direct messages on Instagram to find a rude nude of the woman.

'She just said how much she loved the show': Beau let listeners know the X-rated exchange started off innocently enough before he was sent a nude of a female fan

'So, I open up my phone and I get a response,' Beau said. 'A nude [of the woman].'

Beau said he immediately showed the nude to wife Kara, who was left fuming at the message, asking him why he would send a love heart to a fan.

'[I thought] It was the safe option,' he said of the emoji, adding the red love heart is usually what indicates love or romantic interest.

'I'm stuck where I want to respond to people and do the right thing. I want to respond but I don't want nudes,' Beau said on air. Pictured here with Kara

'I'm stuck where I want to respond to people and do the right thing. I want to respond but I don't want nudes,' he added.

The segment ended with host Kyle asking if the flame emoji was OK for mutual friends who 'look good', which Beau seemed to be alright with.

Putting his spin on it, Kyle asked 'Why don't you just write a word' in order to solve the communication conundrum.

'You almost need to go to school for it,' co-host Jackie O chimed in.

====== 2620 ========

MICHELLE BRIDGES, 48, SHARES THE SECRETS TO HER INCREDIBLE FIGURE

She's got an incredible figure even women half her age would envy.

And on Friday, former Biggest Loser trainer Michelle Bridges, 48, revealed the secrets to her fit physique when she shared her gruelling 'booty' workout with fans.

Taking to Instagram, the mother-of-one flashed her abs in a crop top and tiny shorts as shared her routine in a short video, where she completed deadlifts, squats and lunges with a weight bar.

From deadlifts, squats to lunges: Former Biggest Loser trainer Michelle Bridges, 48, shares the secrets to her incredible figure as she completes a gruelling 'booty' workout

The undoubtedly painful workout appeared effortless for the fitness fanatic, who branded it her 'booty workout'.

'Today's BOOTY workout - it ain't pretty, but it got done!' she captioned the video, admitting she was feeling 'sore' afterwards.

'Each exercise do 10 reps, 5 times with a 30 sec rest between,' Michelle wrote, adding: 'Deadlifts - medium heavy, squats, lunges, lying hip thrusters.'

Intense: 'Today's BOOTY workout - it ain't pretty, but it got done!' she captioned the video, admitting she was feeling 'sore' afterwards

Muscle power: Wearing just black workout shorts and a patterned black and white sports bra, Michelle's bulging muscles were on full display as she trained

Keeping her company in the gym was her two-year-old son, Axel, who she shares with her partner of five years, Steve 'Commando' Willis, 42.

Michelle shared a sweet photo of herself lying on the floor with her son following her energetic workout.

But she's admitted it's not always easy finding the time or the energy to work out with a young child.

In an interview with Essential Baby back in August, the mum of one admitted she would often spend days at home in her pyjamas shortly after Axel was born.

Rest up: Michelle shared a sweet photo of herself lying on the floor with her son, Axel, following her energetic workout

Bikini babe: Michelle looks flawless in a bikini thanks to her gruelling workout regimen

'Nothing prepared me for the lack of sleep. That hit me so hard. I was going nowhere,' she told the website.

But she said she eventually eased herself back into regular workouts.

'Even though I was extremely tired, just going for a walk, being out in the sunshine, helped,' she added.

'I'd go and do three or four kilometres with the pram. That was great.'

====== 2621 ========

PR GURU ROXY JACENKO CLAIMS SHE WANTS TO GIVE TZIPORAH MALKAH AN IMAGE MAKEOVER

Roxy Jacenko wants to give Tziporah Malkah 'a PR makeover'.

The public relations guru believes the former model, who has frequently appeared undressed or disheveled in public, is 'being pulled in a direction that isn't very smart'.

'Whoever's telling her to get into the water and jump up and down for paparazzi – it's not helping,' Roxy, 38 told Now to Love.

'Telling her to jump up and down for paparazzi, it's not helping!' PR guru Roxy Jacenko claims she wants to give Tziporah Malkah an image makeover

'I'd like to see her pulling back from all that publicity.''

The mum-of-two also aired her reservations with Tziporah regularly opening up about her five year relationship with James Packer.

'Having her wheeled out every five minutes to do interviews about a romance that was 25 years ago isn't helping her.

'Having her wheeled out every five minutes to do interviews about a romance that was 25 years ago isn't helping her!' The mum-of-two also aired her reservations with Tziporah regularly opening up about her five year relationship with James Packer

She added: 'I'd rather be seeing her raising awareness for charity.'

The admission comes as the Sweaty Betty publicity founder is set to reveal all in a no-holds-barred interview with Melissa Doyle for Sunday Night.

And in a new preview for the tell-all talk, an emotional Roxy is seen admitting that she had a 'nervous breakdown' following her husband's incarceration for insider trading in 2016.

'I couldn't cope!' The admission comes as the Sweaty Betty publicity founder is set to reveal all in a no-holds-barred interview with Melissa Doyle for Sunday Night

'I couldn't cope,' admits the 38-year-old. 'I had a nervous breakdown.'

'How has this happened to me?' she asks herself, before Melissa says that the PR mogul 'went off the rails.'

In an earlier preview posted on Roxy's Instagram on Tuesday, the couple are emotional as they discuss their marital woes and make candid admissions - with Roxy even confessing she blamed Oliver for 'giving her cancer'.

Diagnosed with breast cancer, three-weeks after Oli went to jail, the blonde reenacted the moment, saying, 'So I told him, "It's your fault. You gave me cancer."'

====== 2622 ========

SOPHIE MONK CUTS A GLAMOROUS FIGURE AS SHE MAKES FIRST PUBLIC OUTING AFTER ENDOMETRIOSIS SURGERY

She pulled out of Maxim's Hot 100 party last Friday after admitting she had 'underestimated' the recovery time of her endometriosis surgery.

But exactly one week later, Sophie Monk was fighting fit once again as she stepped out for her first post-surgery public appearance at a charity event in Queensland.

The 38-year-old cut a glamorous figure at an event for the Daniel Morcombe Foundation, a Brisbane-based organisation dedicated to child safety.

Fighting fit! Sophie Monk (right) cuts a glamorous figure at charity event during first public outing after recovery from endometriosis surgery

Sophie sprinkled some of her star power at the gathering on Friday, delivering a few comical lines in her speech before urging Instagram followers online to donate.

The foundation was created by Denise and Bruce Morcombe after the disappearance of their son Daniel in 2003.

Last month Sophie was announced as an ambassador, telling News.com.au her role will focus on promoting child safety, both online and in the physical world.

'I will talk about child safety at every opportunity I get': Sophie attended an event for the Daniel Morcombe Foundation, a child safety organisation she was recently named an ambassador for

'I will talk about keeping kids safe and child safety at every opportunity I get,' Sophie told the publication.

'I want all children to know they have the right to grow up safe from harm and abuse on and off line always,' she added.

Daniel was abducted in 2003, while waiting for a bus on the Sunshine Coast in Queensland when he was 13 years old.

He was murdered by Brett Peter Cowan, who was sentenced to life in the prison for the crime in 2014.

'I underestimated the operation. I'm so devastated': A bedridden Sophie was a no-show at a Maxim party thrown in her honour last week as she recovered from her operation

Sophie also urged fans online to buy tickets for the upcoming Dance for Daniel ball, an annual fundraiser held by Denise and Bruce Morcombe.

'Get tickets if you want to hang out,' she wrote on Instagram, promising she'll also be making a personal appearance there to meet and greet the attendees.

Prior to stepping out on Friday, Sophie revealed to fans last week that she had 'underestimated' the recovery time of her endometriosis surgery.

Serious business: Sophie shared a confronting video in which she's unconscious in hospital after a surgical procedure earlier this month

Her heartfelt message came after the star shared footage in which she was laying on a gurney, flanked by doctors and nurses earlier this month.

In a further video, the groggy former Bachelorette was tended to by a surgeon, who offers a shock diagnosis of endometriosis.

'We did find some endometriosis,' the doctor revealed, adding: 'But not a lot.'

She captioned the video: 'So many women live not knowing they have endometriosis. If you have annoying cycles. You should ask your doctor.'

====== 2623 ========

LISA WILKINSON, 58, SHARES HER TIPS FOR FOR AGEING WELL AFTER AGE 50 AS SHE SPEAKS AT BOOK LAUNCH

She's an ageless beauty who makes being aged over fifty look effortless.

And on Friday, Lisa Wilkinson shared her thoughts on getting older at the launch of Marcus Riley's book, Booming: A Life-Changing Philosophy For Ageing Well.

The 58-year-old told the gathered crowd at the launch which she hosted: 'There are so many wonderful role models out there for all of us, for how to live a fabulous life beyond 50.'

'Women have more comfort in their in own skin than we've ever seen before': Lisa Wilkinson, 58, shares her tips for for ageing well after 50 as she speaks at book launch. Lisa is pictured with author Marcus Riley

The Project host continued, citing idols of her own like Meryl Streep, 69, and Helen Mirren, 73.

'There are so many incredible women who are just living lives of even more purpose, even more meaning, even more joy, even more comfort in their in own skin than we've ever seen before,' she said.

The television presenter went on to discuss the 'gratitude' she has for reaching the age that she is.

All-smiles: Lisa shared her thoughts on getting older at the launch of Marcus Riley's book and is pictured with a guest

Her thoughts: The 58-year-old told the gathered crowd at the launch which she hosted: 'There are so many wonderful role models out there, for all of us, for how to live a fabulous life beyond 50' (the pair are pictured with a guest)

'More and more of us realise what is possible in our later years it is something that you embrace with incredible joy and enormous gratitude,' she said.

Lisa concluded: 'And the good news is, the truth is, we are all ageing! That's good news right? Everybody's ageing at exactly the same rate.'

At the event, the always-ageless TV personality looked luminous in a pale blue floral dress, giving her a retro silhouette.

Lisa concluded: 'And the good news is, the truth is, we are all ageing! That's good news right? Everybody's ageing at exactly the same rate'

Lovely: At the event, the always-ageless TV personality looked luminous in a pale blue floral dress, giving her a retro silhouette

Her glowing skin looked flawless, highlighted with a makeup palette of glossy pink lipstick and smokey eye shadow.

In July, Lisa spoke out about the trickery of makeup and lighting, telling her fans on Instagram that they should not judge her looks based on how she appears at events.

'Just remember, everything you see from here is all smoke and mirrors,' she said, before thanking her makeup artists.

====== 2624 ========

BEBE REXHA SHOWS OFF HER DERRIERE IN VERY FITTED JEANS AND THIGH-HIGH BOOTS AS SHE ENJOYS DOWNTIME

She's no stranger to bold fashion looks.

And Bebe Rexha turned heads as she stepped out in a pair of very tight denim jeans and intense statement boots on Friday in London.

The Take Me Home singer was spotted having some downtime in the capital after promoting her album, Expectations.

Flaunt it: Bebe Rexha turned heads as she stepped out in a pair of very tight denim jeans and elaborate statement boots on Friday in London

She sported a pair of floral lace-up thigh-high boots over tight fitting jeans which showed off all of the singer's curves, teamed with a pastel green shirt with plenty of tassles and bling.

The blonde beauty teased her hair in a simple up-do and opted for plenty of smokey eye makeup and blusher to show off her features.

Bebe protected her eyes in oversized cat eye glasses which matched her bold hoop earrings.

No stranger to bold looks: Bebe protected her eyes in oversized cat eye glasses which matched her bold hoop earrings

Bebe has become known for her edgy sense of style, catchy pop tunes and stellar songwriting skills since she burst onto the music scene in 2013.

But the singer has revealed she once sold perfume to Rihanna, just one year before writing the singer's number one track The Monster.

She told Good Morning Britain: 'I actually sold perfume to Rihanna, funnily enough.

On a roll: Bebe has become known for her edgy sense of style, catchy pop tunes and stellar songwriting skills since she burst onto the music scene in 2013

Relaxed: The singer was spotted having some downtime in the capital after promoting her album, Expectations

'Saks Fifth Avenue, the Harrods of the US, she came to the counter with red lipstick, sunglasses on, I had no idea that a year later I would have written a Number 1 song she would have been on. It changed my life completely.'

One year later the pair's paths would collide when Bebe's track The Monster was recorded by Eminem and Rihanna, topping the UK and US singles charts.

Bebe has written several songs for other artists - including Like a Champion for Selena Gomez and Eminem and Rihanna's 'The Monster' before signing her own record deal.

She started off her career six years ago when she joined the group Black Cards as lead vocalist- which was formed by Fall Out Boy's Pete Wentz.

====== 2625 ========

PARIS HILTON IS MOBBED BY AUSTRALIAN FANS AS SHE JETS INTO MELBOURNE

She has been showbiz royalty for over two decades now.

And on Thursday, American socialite and heiress Paris Hilton was mobbed by fans as she jetted into Melbourne Airport.

While flanked by security, the 37-year-old was presented with balloons and a princess banner, as Australian fans baring her face on clothing battled through the paparazzi to pose alongside the superstar.

Balloons, a princess banner and flanked by security: Paris Hilton is mobbed by Australian fans as she jets into Melbourne

Social media savvy Paris documented the very warm welcome on her Instagram.

After flying in from Dubai, her A-list arrival first became apparent as two fans, each wearing pink tutus and tiaras, clutched a huge banner in the arrivals lounge.

'Welcome Princess,' the duo had printed across their huge homemade artwork.

'Welcome princess': After flying in from Dubai, her A-list arrival first became apparent as two fans, each wearing pink tutus and tiaras, clutched a huge banner in the arrivals lounge

A scrum of photographers and videographers then desperately scrambled to document each step Paris took on Australian soil.

Among the mayhem many fans confessed their love for the reality TV personality with excitable screams, which echoed across the terminal.

One fan had even donned a T-shirt with Paris' face, complete with a crown, printed below the word 'Hollywood' - referencing her position as showbiz royalty.

The beauty was surrounded by countless security as she made her way through the chaotic scenes in Victoria.

Can you spot the superstar? The beauty was surrounded by countless security and even balloons, as she made her way through the chaotic scenes

Paris -who is single after splitting with ex-fiance Chris Zylka - stepped out in Melbourne wearing all-black.

The beauty appeared to have dressed comfortably for her flight, slipping into a matching velour tracksuit with flared trousers and slim-fitting hooded top.

Keen to give the outfit a bit of star quality, Paris proudly donned a T-shirt with several high-end designer names boldly printed across the chest.

Shielding her eyes from the terminal's fluorescent lighting following her late-night arrival, Paris accessorised the look with a pair of her signature over-sized glasses.

Showbiz royalty: Among the mayhem many fans confessed their love for the reality TV personality with excitable screams, which echoed across the terminal

Over: Paris is single after splitting with ex-fiance Chris Zylka (pictured in March last year)

Paris is in Australia to promote her latest fragrance, Platinum Rush.

The star appeared at the Chemist Warehouse in Melbourne's Highpoint Shopping Centre on November 23rd at 4pm to meet fans.

'Can't wait to see you all,' Paris gushed on Instagram before landing in Australia.

====== 2626 ========

PRIME MINISTER SCOTT MORRISON BOWLS OUT KARL STEFANOVIC AT FITZY AND WIPPA'S BACKYARD CRICKET DAY

Not many people can say they've been whipped at cricket by the Prime Minister.

But on Friday, Today show host Karl Stefanovic experienced just that at Fitzy and Wippa's Backyard Cricket Day.

The 44-year-old suffered a crushing defeat when he was bowled out by the Prime Minister himself, Scott Morrison.

He's an all-rounder! Prime Minister Scott Morrison bowls out Karl Stefanovic at Fitzy and Wippa's Backyard Cricket Day. Karl (centre) poses with Scott Morrison and his wife Jenny (left)

Karl was on team Fitzy, while the Prime Minister was on team Wippa at the charity game, held at Kirribilli House.

Scott Morrison scored four runs but was eventually bowled out by cricket legend Brett Lee.

Karl did end up of a score of 18, which was the most for Fitzy’s cricket team.

Good sports! On Friday, Today show host Karl Stefanovic took part in Fitzy and Wippa's Backyard Cricket Day

Also taking part were Guy Sebastian, Mel Mclaughlin, Sam Frost, Tom Williams and even Wippa's mum.

The game raised money for charity Batting For Change, helping disadvantaged women in other cricket playing Nations.

A whopping $25,000 was raised by the end of what was a fun day for all involved.

Bowling green: Karl was on team Fitzy, while the Prime Minister was on team Wippa at the charity game, held at Kirribilli House

Good cause: The game raised money for charity Batting For Change, helping disadvantaged women in other cricket playing Nations

Despite his defeat, Karl was a good sport, taking to Instagram later in the day to share a photo of himself posing with Scott Morrison and his wife Jenny.

In the photo, the TV host wore his white cricket uniform while the Prime Minister donned the opposing team's red.

Karl captioned the photo: 'Spot of charity cricket with the First Lady and Pm. Great cause @fitzy18 and @wippa1 @battingforchangecharitymatch'.

====== 2627 ========

ALLI SIMPSON SHOWS OFF HER SLIM PINS AT THE SWAROVSKI FOLLOW THE LIGHT EVENT

Alli Simpson was turning heads at the Swarovski Follow The Light Season 19 Collection in Sydney on Friday night.

The singer looked stunning in a black playsuit with sheer layering.

The flirty thigh-length of the 20-year-old's outfit showed off her trim, tanned legs.

Romantic in black! Alli Simpson cuts a stylish figure as she shows off her trim pins in a sheer playsuit at the Swarovski Follow The Light event

Pastel-toned embroidery embellished the bust and cuffs of the outfit.

The outfit had a romantic feel thanks to it's frilled, wide, sheer sleeves and soft layering.

The singer wore her blonde hair long and very sleek, sitting straight down around her shoulders.

Lovely: The outfit had a romantic feel, thanks to it's frilled, sheer sleeves and soft layering

She opted for a natural, glowing makeup look with a matte peachy pink lip and matching eye shadow.

Upon her feet sat gold strappy heels, the eye-catching metallic tone creating some drama.

A delicate gold necklace sat across the collarbone of the stunning I Won't Remember You Tomorrow singer.

Leggy: The flirty thigh-length of the 20-year-old's outfit showed off her trim, tanned legs

She finished the ensemble with freshly-painted toenails in a light tone.

The blonde hitmaker, who is now based in Los Angeles, previously dated Australian singer Conrad Sewell, 30.

The former couple called it quits in June, but Alli recently hinted that she's open to a reconciliation with the Start Again singer.

====== 2628 ========

THE RACY AND RIDICULOUS WARDROBE OF INSTAGRAM STAR TAMMY HEMBROW

Instagram fitness queen Tammy Hembrow is famous for her incredible physique, so it's no surprise that she likes to show off her body outside of the gym.

The blonde bombshell has no problem flaunting her muscular curves in a variety of racy outfits, whether it's showing underboob in the middle of a St Laurent store or channeling Kim Kardashian in busty pink ensembles.

The 24-year-old turned heads at New York Fashion Week in September in a low-cut sequinned mini dress that left little to the imagination.

Stylish? Instagram model Tammy Hembrow is famous for her gym-honed physique, but her style outside the gym has often raised a lot of eyebrows

The frock, which was designed by Melbourne label Discount Universe, was adorned with colourful graphics of a unicorn, rainbow, stars and roses.

The controversial fitness entrepreneur teamed the attire with a pair of white ankle boots and a perspex clutch.

She wore her blonde locks up in a nineties-style updo, revealing her heavily applied makeup.

Colourful: The 24-year-old turned heads at New York Fashion Week in September in a low-cut sequinned mini dress

Gym bunny: Tammy's famous workout ensembles often leave little to the imagination

She later turned heads in a raunchy PVC outfit as she stepped out to hit some NYFW after parties.

Taking to the streets, Tammy wowed in a high waisted leather skirt and a matching bandeau top.

The garment was tied at the bust, accentuating both her generous cleavage and her taut torso.

Leather lady: She later turned heads in a raunchy PVC outfit as she stepped out to hit some NYFW after parties

A month earlier, the buxom beauty flashed her nipples as she posed braless in a sheer, metallic dress at the Your Cosmo Cover Event in Sydney.

Tammy put her ample assets on display in the daring frock, which featured a cut-out detail across the waist, offering a glimpse of her toned abs.

This week, the Instagram babe raised eyebrows yet again for wearing a revealing ensemble while shopping at luxury retailer Saint Laurent.

Feeling nippy? A month earlier, the buxom beauty flashed her nipples as she posed braless in a sheer, metallic dress at the Your Cosmo Cover Event in Sydney

Pretty in pink: The blonde also loves matching pink ensembles, many of which appear to be inspired by Kim Kardashian's wardrobe

Flaunting some serious underboob in a barely-there crop top without a bra, fans quickly labelled the 24-year-old's outfit as 'inappropriate', 'unflattering' and 'not classy.'

Tammy, who is the mother to two young children, flaunted her gym-honed frame in skintight workout shorts and a halterneck crop top by Staple And Hue.

Leaving little to the imagination, it was clear Tammy had neglected to wear a bra during the outing, with the tiny white top barely covering her her chest.

====== 2629 ========

IMOGEN ANTHONY UNVEILS A HEALTHY BODY TRANSFORMATION

She revealed earlier this week that her boyfriend Kyle Sandilands was on a strict diet of 'no sugar and green juices'.

And now it has emerged that Imogen Anthony has joined her beau on the health kick.

On Friday, the 27-year-old unveiled the impressive results of the couple's new diet and exercise regime.

Scroll down for video

'No sugar, no alcohol': Imogen Anthony unveiled her incredible body transformation on Friday (right) after she and boyfriend Kyle Sandilands go on a VERY strict new diet and fitness regime. She is pictured left in 2014

Taking to Instagram, she shared a photo of herself lifting her skimpy green top to debut a fitter, more muscular look.

The model told her fans that regaining her health has been a top priority for her as the year draws to an end.

'I've been kinda MIA,' the petite blonde began in the caption of her post.

'So I get it doesn't look like much and I'll probably delete this half-a**ed picture soon because I'd just woken up when I took it.'

Explaining her strict new regime, Imogen said she wanted to overhaul her health to regain control of it.

'One thousand crunches and f**ken donkey kicks or whatever they're called, I'm feeling the best I have in a looong a** time': Imogen said she has been working hard to transform her figure

'After multiple doctors appointments, chiropractic crackings, kenesiology (sic) potions, no sugar (well minimal lol) no soy with sushi or sashimi.'

She then let fans know details of her workout routine.

'One thousand crunches and f**ken donkey kicks or whatever they're called, I'm feeling the best I have in a looong a** time,' she added.

Body confidence: In the past, Imogen has spoken out about the importance of the body positive movement, documenting her own journey of self acceptance

She finished her serious post by joking that fans should send her a lifetime supply of alkaline water and that she would be bringing out a fitness e-Book.

Imogen's beau Kyle is also a health kick, with the 47-year-old radio host seemingly determined to slim down after a series of recent health scares.

Earlier this week, it was Imogen who revealed that the star had also been following a green juice and no sugar diet.

The revelation came following the appearance of cookbook author Yumi Stynes on KIIS FM's Kyle & Jackie O Show on Wednesday.

Green juice and NO sugar: Meanwhile, Kyle revealed his slimmed-down figure on Wednesday after going on a strict diet, left. He is pictured on the right in 2015 when he infamously whipped off his T-shirt on The Morning Show

The radio program shared a photo of Kyle, his 43-year-old co-host Jackie 'O' Henderson and their 43-year-old guest on Instagram, with a newly slimmed down Kyle seen holding a cheesecake.

'Thanks for the chat and the delicious food today @yumichild! You're DEFINITELY welcome back any time (especially with another one of those cheesecakes),' they captioned it.

But one person who seemingly wasn't bemused by the photo was Imogen.

'Don't eat it, babe! He's been so good on the green juices and no sugar diet!! Very proud,' she commented.

Kyle's diet comes after a series of worrying health issues for the often controversial star.

The radio star, whose weight tipped the scales at 135kg last year, has taken a number of sick days in recent month

'When I was asked to close at Fashion Week wearing nothing but sand, that's essentially when I started truly falling in love with my body': Imogen is pictured wearing a 'sand-kini' in 2014

s.

====== 2630 ========

DO YOU REMEMBER THIS FORMER BACHELOR BOMBSHELL?

She was rejected by Richie Strahan during the 2016 season of The Bachelor.

And more than two years on, fans would be forgiven for not recognising Steph Dixon from her stint on the Channel Ten dating show.

The reality star, 27, attended the Fashion Aid 2018 Launch Party at Mercedes Benz in Melbourne on Thursday evening, showing off a very glam new look.

Remember me? Former Bachelor bombshell Steph Dixon looked very different as attended a fashion event on Thursday night in Melbourne, left. She is pictured on the right during her stint on The Bachelor

The model was a blonde intruder on the dating series, who after six episodes and one date with suitor Richie was asked to leave.

But these days Steph has darker balayaged locks and opts for more contoured makeup looks.

Stepping out in a bold fashion statement for the red carpet event on Thursday evening, Step certainly turned heads.

Taking risks! Stepping out in a bold fashion statement for the red carpet event on Thursday evening, Step certainly turned heads.

She elongated her trim pins with metallic heels and paraded her legs further in a daring pair of red trousers with thigh-high splits.

She also chose to show off her washboard stomach with a white and red crop top.

Steph has previously spoken passionately about the negative affects of cosmetic surgery, telling her fans in 2016 : 'You are perfectly FINE the way you are... If anyone tells you that you need something fixed- tell them to go home.'

The beauty, who entered The Bachelor as an intruder, previously credited her friendship with co-star Olena Khamula for stopping her from leaving the compound early.

What could have been? Steph was rejected by Richie Strahan during the 2016 season of The Bachelor

At the time of her departure from the Bachelor mansion, she dubbed Olena her new 'best friend'.

The models have regularly caught up and have continued their friendship since the show aired in 2016.

Meanwhile, Richie, who has since split from 'winner' Alex Nation, is currently in Fiji filming the upcoming season of Bachelor In Paradise.

====== 2631 ========

SEE INSIDE PIA MUEHLENBECK'S RITZY SURPRISE HEN'S BRUNCH

She's set to tie-the-knot with her hunky photographer fiancé Kate Vato in an extravagant ceremony next month.

And on Thursday, lawyer turned social media influencer Pia Muehlenbeck, 26, shared details of her surprise hen's party in Sydney.

Posting a video to her popular YouTube channel, she took fans inside the event, which was held at a chic beach-side restaurant.

Scroll down for video

A couture gown, free flowing rosé and childhood friends flown from the Gold Coast: See inside 'Bridezilla' Pia Muehlenbeck's recently enjoyed a hen's brunch ahead of her nuptials

The video starts with Pia unaware she was heading to her own hen's party after the Slinkii CEO was initially forced to cancel the bash due to time constraints.

Pia believed only Kane would be having a buck's party on the day, however her husband-to-be had flown in her sister, cousin and childhood friends from the Gold Coast.

Arriving at a restaurant in Sydney's eastern suburbs, Pia was in utter shock as she was greeted by 15 friends and family members.

Surprise: Pia was surprised with a hen's party by fiancé Kate Vato after the stunning beauty was forced to cancel her planned party due to time constraints

Immediately handed a white garment bag from Pallas couture, she slipped into something more appropriate for the event.

'I know what this is,' Pia she said excitedly.

Pia was then gifted presents from lingerie brand Victoria's Secret before she and her gal pals sat down to enjoy savoury boards of salami, olives and cheeses.

Surprise: Pia believed only Kane would be having a buck's party on the day, however her husband-to-be had flown in her sister, cousin and childhood friends from the Gold Coast

Her guests also enjoyed free flowing glasses of rosé and champagne.

Pia and Kane are set tie-the-knot next month, with the chestnut haired beauty remaining tight-lipped about details before the big day in Byron Bay.

However she was recently branded a 'bridezilla' after it emerged that the model has requested that all of her guests wear 'earth tones' for the big day.

Fit for a princess: Pia and Kane are set tie-the-knot next month, with the chestnut haired beauty remaining tight-lipped about details before the big day in Byron Bay

Guests will also not know the location until they are picked up half an hour before the couple exchange vows.

In October, Pia gave her near two million Instagram followers a glimpse of the style of dresses she was taken with.

Standing in Sydney bridal store Pallas Haute Couture, Pia posed in a number of dresses with hefty price tags between $7,000 and $12,000.

'It's going to be a few days of celebration, and the theme will be summery, natural, rustic and a Byron Bay sort of theme,' Pia said.

====== 2632 ========

BRYNNE EDELSTEN PUTS ON A VERY LEGGY DISPLAY IN A TIGHT MINI-DRESS AT FASHION AID IN MELBOURNE

She recently said she's been busy 'playing wife at home' with boyfriend of five months, Leno Cachia.

But on Thursday, Brynne Edelsten, 35, stepped out with her beau for the Fashion Aid event in Melbourne.

Striking a pose by the media wall, the socialite flaunted her trim pins in a bespoke patterned mini dress with fringed shoulders.

Thigh's the limit! Brynne Edelsten put on a leggy display in a VERY short mini dress as she attended the Fashion Aid 2018 launch party at Mercedes-Benz in Melbourne on Thursday

At times, the blonde beauty posed in a way to shield her petite frame with a glittering black clutch.

Brynne chose to wear her platinum blonde hair down around her shoulders.

Affectionate: Brynne and her boyfriend of five months Leno Cachia (above) put on a loved-up display at the fashion bash

The American-born beauty opted for a dewy, high-gloss make-up palette, featuring a glittering blush and high-shine lip gloss.

Brynne finished the outfit with a pair of sky-high black heels.

Meanwhile, boyfriend Leno showed off his own quirky style, wearing blue suit trousers, long-sleeve black shirt and a matching vest.

Case of the ex: Brynne was previously married to millionaire medico Geoffrey Edelsten, 75, (above) before confirming her new romance to Daily Mail Australia in early May

He added a small silver chain with a cross and low-shine slip on shoes to his ensemble.

The outing comes after Brynne hinted she may tie the knot with her new beau.

I have been really quiet lately, very domesticated playing wife at home with the boyfriend,' she told The Daily Telegraph.

'I've been playing wife at home': Brynne Edelsten hinted she is ready to marry boyfriend Leno Cachia (above) earlier this month. Pictured together earlier this year

'My partner hates going to events.

'I guess I have been through a lot of craziness the last few years and so I have been trying to create stability in my life.'

Brynne was previously married to multi-millionaire Geoffrey Edelsten, 75, before confirming her new romance to Daily Mail Australia in early May.

'Yes, I am in a relationship with Leno Cachia,' she said.

All over: 'I wish her the best but have nothing to do with her': Brynne said of her previous relationship with fellow blonde bombshell Coby Boatman (above)

'We met on New Year's Eve and have been seeing each other romantically since March.'

Earlier this year, Brynne announced her split from Coby Boatman, 25, after just two months of dating.

'I actually broke up with Coby and moved out late last year,' she told Daily Mail Australia back in January.

'I wish her the best but have nothing to do with her.'

====== 2633 ========

THE TEN RULES TO FOLLOW IF YOU WANT TO LOOK BETTER IN YOUR INSTAGRAM SNAPS

Nailing the perfect Instagram photo can take dozens of tries, but industry insiders have now revealed their fail-safe tips for making the whole process a little easier.

UK-based style experts at Who What Wear released a handy guide featuring 10 rules on posing, camera angles and framing for anyone wanting to boost their social media star power to follow at home.

They address common questions like the best place to stand in a group shot, and reveal how to find your 'best' side.

Here, FEMAIL pairs these handy hints with examples of celebrities well-versed in the tricks of the trade. Read on to find out more...

Your left side is the best side

Make sure you get my best side! The left-hand side of the face is the most attractive for the majority of people, according to a photographer. Pictured, Holly Willoughby proves the point

Friends often squabble over their positioning in a photo as each person is desperate to show off their 'best' side.

But photographer Garance Doré insists most women have the same 'best' side of their face: their left.

Surprisingly, this has also been backed up by science, with a 2012 study by Wake Forest University, North Carolina, showing it is true for the majority of people.

Stand back

Playing with perspective: Being furthest from the camera can lead to a more flattering photo. Although Julia Roberts, right, proves its possible to look radiant at the front of a picture too

In a group shot make sure you are not the one standing closest to the camera.

Perspective means the person closest to the lens will appear disproportionately large.

Say 'Thursday'

Leave the cheese! Saying the word 'Thursday' makes your face look more relaxed and allow the lips to fall slightly parted - a go-to expression for photogenic stars like Emily Ratajkowski

We grow up being taught to say 'cheese' as a photo is taken. But the reality is that saying the word stretches your mouth - and your face - in a way that is decidedly unflattering.

Instead follow the lead of the stars and say the word 'Thursday' instead.

The word makes your face look more relaxed and allow the lips to fall slightly parted - a go-to expression for photogenic celebrities like Emily Ratajkowski, 27.

Smile with your tongue

Remember to smile! Kendall, left, and Kylie Jenner are experts at smiling naturally in photos. If you struggle, try pushing your tongue behind the teeth to create a grin that's not too wide

If you do want to smile rather than pout, then be sure to push your tongue behind your teeth to help avoid a grin that is 'too wide', the experts recommend.

Pretending to laugh is also a quick and easy shortcut to a genuine-looking smile - and might even lead to a real chuckle, too.

Frame well

Get it right first time: Take time framing your snap like Bella Hadid, above, and avoid using the crop feature

A quick crop might seem a quick and easy solution to cutting out your 'bad bits' from an otherwise top-notch photo.

But the reality is a crop often leads to a photo looking slightly out of kilter.

Instead pay attention to the framing before taking a photo and try to get the entire face - or body if its a full-length shot - into the image.

Look up

All in a tilt: Looking up at the camera slightly like Naomi Campbell helps accentuate angles

As many of us know, the most flattering photos are often those taken from above.

This is because it gives the face more depth than a flat, face-on shot, helping to create flattering angles.

This can be achieved in any situation by simply tilting your chin down and looking up at the camera

Snap from above

Or, if you're fortunate enough to have a patient friend, loved one or passer-by on hand, take this thinking to the next level - literally - by asking them to take the photo from above.

As Doré said simply: 'A shot from above is a godsend!

... Or go low

Long and lean: Rosie Huntington-Whiteley shows just how flattering a low angle can be

The other popular option for angles is to snap from below.

Instagram star Chriselle Lim - who boasts 1.1million followers on the social media site - insists this is a way to elongate and flatter any figure.

The success of this hack can be measured in the number of times it appears on social media feeds - with model Rosie Huntington-Whiteley among those who swears by it.

And finally - relax

This might seem painfully obvious but it is easy to forget to loosen up before a photo is taken. Take a few deep breaths, shake out your body, whatever you need to do to make sure you're as relaxed as possible in front of the lens.

====== 2634 ========

THE BACHELOR'S ROMY POULIER RUSHED TO HOSPITAL AFTER SPIDER BITE

The Bachelor's Romy Poulier found herself in the hospital on Friday after suffering a nasty spider bite.

The 30-year-old showed off the large and swollen bite on Instagram, with the bite being on her index finger.

After getting it treated, Romy asked her fans on her story: 'Do you reckon my finger will last the night?'

Scroll down for video

'Do you reckon my finger will last the night?' The Bachelor's Romy Poulier shows off her swollen spider bite as she heads to hospital after being attacked by an angry arachnid while she slept

She revealed that she was bitten by the spider in her sleep and was forced to take the day off from work to get treated.

'I got bitten by a spider in my sleep,' she wrote online.

'Lucky I love insects.'

The actress also showed herself inside the hospital with an intravenous drip strapped to her hand.

'I'm all G (good) and in safe hands. The little bugger got me the day off work.'

Looks painful! She revealed that she was bitten by the spider in her sleep and was forced to take the day off from work to get treated

Scary: The actress showed herself inside a hospital with an intravenous drip strapped to her hand in an Instagram post

Ouch! 'I'm all G (good) and in safe hands. The little bugger got me the day off work,' the brunette said

Meanwhile Romy recently reflected on her time on The Bachelor earlier this year, saying she now regrets her time on the show because of how she was edited.

'Every single mean or cheeky thing I said was played, every single part of it,' she told Josiah and Elly in September.

'Not one positive thing came out of mouth, which is a real shame because there were so many great times.'

'Not one positive thing came out of mouth': Despite being one of the standout contestants on Honey Badger's season of The Bachelor, Romy has said that she now regrets her time on the show because of how she was edited

She added: 'It's just not how I remember my experience.'

While Romy was rumoured to return to screens on The Bachelor spin-off Bachelor In Paradise, the beauty has since found love in the real world with her new boyfriend, James.

She debuted the new romance on Instagram by posting a sweet selfie of herself and her new beau.

====== 2635 ========

TAHNEE ATKINSON JOINS ALLI SIMPSON AND CHRISTIAN WILKINS AT SWAROVSKI NEW SEASON LAUNCH

Tahnee Atkinson turned heads at the Swarovski Follow The Light Season 19 Collection launch in Sydney on Friday night.

The model looked stunning in a white sheer lace dress featuring a built-in bustier that elevated her ample cleavage.

The 26-year-old wore high-cut white underwear underneath the see-through frock, as she lead red carpet arrivals.

Scroll down for video

Sheer delight! Model Tahnee Atkinson (pictured) stuns in flirty see-through white frock as she joins Alli Simpson and Christian Wilkins Swarovski new season launch

Featuring puffed sleeves, the dress had a vintage look and the beauty paired it with strappy black heels and retro star-burst earrings.

Tahnee wore her hair slicked back and her makeup palette consisted of a smokey eye and a soft pink lip.

The event also helped to celebrate the official 2018 ARIA Awards red carpet launch, with Swarovski being the official red carpet partner for the music event this year.

Also making an appearance on the night was Australian singer Alli Simpson, who looked stunning in a mini black playsuit with romantic sheer layering that showed off her trim legs.

All white: The model looked stunning in a sheer lace dress featuring a built-in bustier that elevated her ample cleavage

Lovely: Featuring puffed sleeves, the dress had a vintage look, and the beauty paired it with strappy black heels and retro star-burst earrings

Dreamy: Also making an appearance was Alli Simpson (pictured), who looked stunning in a mini black jumpsuit with romantic sheer layering that showed off her trim legs

Pastel-toned embroidery embellished the bust and cuffs of her outfit.

The singer wore her long blonde hair out and straight and finished her glowing makeup look with a peachy pink lip.

With gold strappy heels creating some drama, she finished the ensemble with freshly-painted toenails in a light white tone.

Cute! Pastel-toned embroidery embellished the bust and cuffs of her outfit

Never one to hold back at a fashion event, Christian Wilkins worked his best angles on the red carpet in a pair of showstopping glittering gold shorts.

He paired the shorts with a white jacket and a Victorian-inspired soft beige bow around his neck.

The socialite wore his impressive blond mane dangling over his shoulder, styled in gentle waves and completed the look with intricate black creepers worn with socks.

All that glitters: Never one to hold back at a fashion event, Christian Wilkins (pictured) worked his best angles on the red carpet in a pair of showstopping glittering gold shorts

Drama! The socialite wore his impressive blond mane dangling over his shoulder, styled in gentle waves and completed the look with intricate black creepers worn with socks

Christian's boyfriend Andrew Kelly also put on a good show, wearing a green lace shirt with a singlet underneath.

He paired the top with frayed, cut-off denim shorts and Gucci socks worn with Gucci fur slides in complimentary tones of caramel and chocolate brown.

He completed his look with a black hat, Gucci belt with a gold emblem buckle and a fine gold pendant.

Green with envy: Christian's boyfriend Andrew Kelly also put on a good show, wearing a green lace shirt with a singlet underneath

Instagram Influencer Sammy Robinson was all-smiles as she posed in a safari suit inspired two-two outfit consisting of belted shorts and a matching top.

The midriff-revealing crop featuring puffed sleeves and button detailing, as well as a v-neck cut showing off a glimpse of skin.

She wore a nude-toned lipstick along with a bronzed makeup palette, carried Lolita sunglasses on her head and finished the look with cheer strappy heels.

In disguise: Instagram Influencer Sammy Robinson (pictured) was all smiles as she posed in a safari suit inspired two-two outfit consisting of belted shorts and a matching top

Bronzed babe: She wore a nude-toned lipstick along with a bronzed makeup palette, carried Lolita sunglasses on her head and finished the look with cheer strappy heels

Amy Pejkovic scaled great heights at the bling-y shindig, posing on a ladder in extra-wide-leg striped black and white pants.

The model teamed the bottoms with a simple white singlet that clung to her athletic frame and a pair of edgy shoes with chunky, clear heels.

She completed the chic look with dangling statement earrings and wore her hair back, with lined eyes and a soft pink lip making for a fashionable makeup palette.

Up she goes: Amy Pejkovic scaled great heights at the bling-y shindig, posing on a ladder in extra-wide-leg striped black and white pants

====== 2636 ========

FORMER POLITICIAN SAM DASTYARI SLAMS STUDIO 10 AMID HIS ONGOING FEUD WITH HOST JOE HILDEBRAND

There's no chance of Sam Dastyari's feud with Studio 10 dissipating anytime soon.

Speaking to Daily Mail Australia on Friday, the 35-year-old former politician said he was in the middle of a war of words with the Network Ten program.

Sam said the feud started following his appearance on the program on Thursday to promote Triple M's The Night Shift program, for which he's currently hosting

Scroll down for video

'Studio 10 changes hosts quicker than Australia changes Prime Ministers!' Former politician Sam Dastyari has slammed the Network Ten program amid his ongoing feud with host Joe Hildebrand

'I went on their show yesterday, and they had a go at Triple M saying they'd hire anybody,' he told Daily Mail Australia.

'Fancy being told by Studio 10 that Triple M would hire anybody! Studio 10 changes hosts quicker than Australia changes prime ministers.'

Sam discussed his controversial appearance on the TV program during The Night Shift in the early hours of Friday morning, claiming he was simply there to 'plug' the radio program.

'All I got was a barrage of criticism... Screw them,' he said on air.

Where it all started: Sam said the feud began following his appearance on the program on Thursday to promote Triple M's The Night Shift program, which he is currently hosting

Following his inflammatory comments, Sam said Studio 10 came back swinging, with a few choice remarks of their own during Friday's program.

Although he hadn't yet seen the footage, he was looking forward to hearing what they had to say.

'All I know is Joe Hildebrand sent me a text message saying, "I've settled the score with you on-air,"' he told Daily Mail Australia.

Past tensions? Sam admitted he and Studio 10 host Joe Hildebrand have a history, after the 42-year-old journalist interviewed him for a story

Annoyed: 'Fancy being told by Studio 10 that Triple M would hire anybody! Studio 10 changes hosts quicker than Australia changes prime ministers,' Sam said

'I want to have a go at Joe Hildebrand, but with Studio 10's track record, there's no guarantee that he'll be there next week.'

Sam admitted he and Joe have a history, after the 42-year-old journalist interviewed him for a story in The Daily Telegraph's Stellar Magazine in August.

'Baby-faced Labor powerbroker Sam Dastyari had a secret plan to become premier of NSW before he was spectacularly brought down by his ties to shady Chinese figures,' began Joe's profile of the disgraced former senator.

Taking a swing: 'I want to have a go at Joe Hildebrand, but with Studio 10's track record, there's no guarantee that he'll be there next week,' joked Sam

Also fighting: Sam isn't the only notable Australian currently caught up in a feud with Studio 10. The program is also in the middle of an ongoing argument with Nova FM's Sam Pang

Meanwhile, Sam isn't the only notable Australian currently caught up in a feud with Studio 10.

The program is also in the middle of an ongoing argument with Nova FM's Sam Pang, 45, after the radio host claimed the show helps him to sleep.

'How many radio stations do they want to fight with? He's Nova. So they're fighting with Nova and Triple M right now,' Dastyari told Daily Mail Australia.

====== 2637 ========

PARENTS SPENDING $1,000 ON KIDS END OF YEAR DANCE SHOWS

Keeping children entertained is never easy, just as paying for their extracurricular activities is never cheap.

Australian journalist and mother-of-four Alissa Warren recently spoke about the reality of being a 'dance mum', with shows stretching for hours and expensive costumes and shoes.

Since her six-year-old daughter started classes, Ms Warren told 9Honey she has paid more than $1,000 in costume costs for her 'tiny dancer' - not to mention tickets, videos and makeup.

Ms Warren said the hefty costs are always paid by the family, never the dance studio, and described the standard end of year recital as the event which 'squeezes the last breath out of your [bank] account'.

Ms Warren described the hefty costs of costumes, makeup, shoes and recital tickets associated with children's end of year dance shows (stock image)

The first costume generally costs in the region of $130, while every subsequent outfit comes in between $60 and $70 per piece.

'When your girl is in about 13 [scenes] it adds up quickly!' she added.

A friend of Ms Warren's had to fork out for three pairs of ballet pointe shoes which retail for $110 each.

Ms Warren also detailed the heavy duty cosmetics worn by the young dancers, including 'foundation, smoky eyes and red lips'.

She revealed shows often run for between two and three hours to give every child their moment in the spotlight.

Posting in a parenting forum on social media, another mum revealed tickets to her kids' variety shows cost $40 per adult, as well as obligatory 'end of year photos' priced at $10.

Another mum paid $58 per ticket to attend her daughter's end of year recital, in addition to a $50 fee for rehearsals in advance of the actual event.

Others highlighted the miscellaneous costs such as stockings, in-soles and hair pieces which quickly mount up, particularly for those with more than one child enrolled in dancing.

A single pair of kids' ballet pointe shoes like those pictured cost $110

But a number of mothers said they were happy to pay for the classes and all that goes with them, with one saying: 'I do think it can be a bit expensive, but my kids are happy – they enjoy it!'

Ms Warren echoed this outlook, saying: 'My little daughter is happiest when she's dancing.'

The writer said she is proud to see her child participate in a team activity, remembering choreography, achieving a goal and expressing herself.

====== 2638 ========

NINE ANNOUNCES THE LAUNCH OF ONLINE RENOVATION SHOW THE BLOCK 365, BASED ON THE REALITY TV SERIES

Channel Nine is set to launch The Block 365, an online hub featuring a collection of made-for-purpose short clips, based on the reality series The Block.

According to ninehoney.com.au, the site - which will go live in 2019 - will include footage from previous Block seasons and special series' all related to home renovation.

Block contestants Ronnie and Georgia, from season 13 of The Block in Elsternwick, will star in the first video series, titled Quick Room Flips With Ronnie & Georgia.

A daily makeover! On Friday, Channel Nine announced the launch of online renovation show The Block 365, which is based on the popular home reality TV series. Pictured: Block host Scott Cam

Lizzie Young, Nine's Group Content Strategy Director, said: 'Quick Room Flips will launch as an eight-part video series with Ronnie and Georgia battling the clock – and their budget – to deliver a covetable room each week, inspiring the audience with ideas, tips and tricks to transform their own space.'

'Villains' Ronnie and Georgia appeared on the 2017 season of The Block and while they did not win the reality series, they landed on the feet with a special deal from Nine.

In late October that year, the network announced that the duo had signed an 'exclusive deal' to give their renovation tips and tricks across the entire Nine Network.

Reno heaven: Channel Nine is to launch The Block 365, an online hub featuring a collection of made-for-purpose short clips, based on the reality series The Block. Pictured: 2017 Block contestants Ronnie and Georgia Caceres

What's to come! According to ninehoney.com.au , the site - which will go live in 2019 - will include footage from previous Block seasons and special series' all related to home renovation.

That deal now appears to have come to fruition with the launch of The Block 365.

'We live and breathe renovation, so we couldn't be more excited to continue sharing our passion with Australia by staying with the Nine family,' the pair said in an official statement at the time.

Adrian Swift, Nine's Head of Content Production and Development added: 'Ronnie and Georgia were not only seasoned renovators before they joined our 2017 series but one of the most entertaining and creative couples ever to undertake The Block challenge.'

Move over Josh and Elyse! Back in 2017, The Block villains Ronnie and Georgia (pictured) signed an exclusive deal to give their renovation tips and tricks to audiences across the entire Nine Network

'We know our audience will love their insights into the world of the latest makeover, styling and building trends,' he added.

On the final episode of The Block season 17, Ronnie and Georgia's black house was passed in at auction.

The couple, who were often at loggerheads with their fellow contestants, failed to reach their reserve price of $2.62 million.

'That's a disaster. We don't want to go just over reserve. It's not worth it. We'll just pass it in,' Georgia shared to camera, as she cried.

====== 2639 ========

ROXY JACENKO SAYS SHE HAD A 'NERVOUS BREAKDOWN'

Roxy Jacenko and Oliver Curtis are set to reveal all in a no-holds-barred interview with Melissa Doyle on Sunday Night.

And in a new preview for the tell-all talk, an emotional Roxy is seen admitting that she had a 'nervous breakdown' following her husband's incarceration for insider trading in 2016.

'I couldn't cope,' admits the 38-year-old. 'I had a nervous breakdown.'

'I had a nervous breakdown': Roxy Jacenko and Oliver Curtis are set to reveal all in a no-holds-barred interview with Melissa Doyle for Sunday Night

'How has this happened to me?' she asks herself, before Melissa says that the PR mogul 'went off the rails.'

In an earlier preview posted on Roxy's Instagram on Tuesday, the couple are emotional as they discuss their marital woes and make candid admissions - with Roxy even confessing she blamed Oliver for 'giving her cancer'.

In the teaser, the pair are introduced as 'rich', 'glamorous' and 'living the high life' before the voiceover claimed their world soon came 'crashing down around them'.

Host Melissa then asked the pair, 'Have you forgiven each other?' to which Roxy replied: 'I had to lie.'

'I indulged in things I shouldn't have indulged in': Roxy and Oliver will spill all on their marital woes on Sunday Night

The famous publicist admitted: 'I started living a life as soon as Oli went to jail that was fast... And indulged in things in shouldn't have indulged in.'

She later opened up about the brutal words she gave Oli after he lost his insider trading case.

In 2016, three-weeks after Oli went to jail, Roxy was diagnosed with breast cancer. She frequently describes the period as her 'lowest point'.

Struggles: In 2016, three-weeks after Oli went to jail, Roxy was diagnosed with breast cancer. She frequently describes the period as her 'lowest point'

'It's your fault': In the teaser, the PR queen revealed she blamed Oli for her illness - a brutal send off to a man who she felt had just left her as a single mother for the next twelve months

In the teaser, the PR queen revealed she blamed Oli for her illness - a brutal send off to a man who she felt had just left her as a single mother for the next twelve months.

The blonde reenacted the moment, saying, 'So I told him, "It's your fault. You gave me cancer.'"'

In another section of the chat, Oliver became teary eyed as he spoke about the couple's children, Pixie, six, and Hunter, four.

Likely speaking about the most difficult part of his last few moments before being locked up for 12 months, he said, 'Giving the kids a kiss. I said I wouldn't cry.'

Family: Likely speaking about his last few moments before being locked up, Oliver said, 'Giving the kids a kiss. I said I wouldn't cry'. Pictured: Roxy and Oliver with daughter Pixie, six, and Hunter, four

The new interview comes after the couple appeared on KIIS FM's Kyle & Jackie O Show earlier this year and spoke candidly about their previous marriage issues.

Oliver revealed that he discovered Roxy's extra-marital affair with her ex-boyfriend Nabil Gazal while he was still in jail back in 2017.

Admitting he was forced to mull over the news from behind bars, Oliver ripped apart the property developer in a scathing interview on the radio show in February.

'It is absolutely disgusting. What sort of human being moves in on a man's wife while (he's) in jail?' Oliver raged.

'I mean, come on. That is low,' he added bitterly, before wife Roxy tried to move the conversation along by saying: 'It was a mistake. I'm not proud of the mistake.'

====== 2640 ========

MAFS STAR CARLY BOWYER IS SPOTTED WITH BACHELORETTE STAR EX ROB COLANGELO AGAIN

She previously hinted she was jealous that her former flame Robert Colangelo was vying for Ali Oetjen's heart during his stint on The Bachelorette.

But Carly Bowyer had Rob all to herself on Thursday evening as they attended an event in Melbourne together.

It is the third time the pair have spent time together since he was booted from Channel Ten's dating franchise.

Case of the ex! MAFS star Carly Bowyer puts on a busty display with Bachelorette's Rob Colangelo after confessing to having feelings for him

The duo were all smiles as they posed together at the Fashion Aid 2018 Launch Party at Mercedes Benz.

It's unclear if the pair arrived together or knew they'd bump into each other at the event, but they certainly appeared happy in each other's company.

Carly made sure to show Rob what he was missing, strutting her stuff in a sexy tangerine frock at the glitzy soiree.

Robert, who was previously in a 'serious relationship' with the Carly for three years, looked suave in a mixed-hued blue suit with a crisp white button-up shirt.

It's unsure whether the pair, who claim to have remained 'good friends' since their 2015 split, will ever reconcile.

Showing him what he's missing? Carly, 32, stunned in her figure-hugging orange asymmetrical number

Carly, who split from her MAFS co-star Troy Delmege earlier this year, admitted she would have been left 'heartbroken' if Ali choose Rob as her 'winner'.

Reminiscing about their time together to New Idea last month, she said: 'We were definitely in love. It felt like that was it and we'd get married and end up together forever.'

Rob told NW Magazine the former lovers have remained friends and that their split was unfortunate, noting 'we couldn't seem to make it work.'

'We were definitely in love': It's unsure whether the pair, who claim to have remained 'good friends' since their 2015 split, will ever reconcile

It's believed the pair were just hanging out as friends following recent footage of Carly locking lips with her MAFS ex Troy last week.

Troy, 36, and Carly split in August following months of rumours their relationship was in trouble after he relocated to Melbourne to live with her.

Carly previously ran into not one, but three of her ex-boyfriends at the Maxim Hot 100 Party last week.

While attending the event she was faced with Troy, Rob and former on-screen Married At First Sight husband Justin Fischer.

====== 2641 ========

NEIGHBOURS STAR SARAH ELLEN ALMOST SUFFERS AN EMBARRASSING WARDROBE MALFUNCTION

Neighbours star Sarah Ellen came dangerously close to an embarrassing wardrobe malfunction as she posed on the red carpet at an exclusive Tiffany & Co. event on Thursday evening.

The blonde beauty bravely went braless in a revealing jumpsuit that showed off quite a bit of sideboob.

As she posed side on, the 21-year-old gave onlookers an eyeful.

Scroll down for video

One false move! Neighbours star Sarah Ellen almost suffers an embarrassing wardrobe malfunction as she goes braless in revealing jumpsuit

The actress turned fashion blogger looked incredible in the pinstripe all-in-one, which was belted at the waist to accentuate her tiny midsection.

She teamed the attire with a matching blazer and accessorised with delicate jewels.

The stunning star attended the event with her handsome tattooed boyfriend Caleb Jackson.

The pair shared a romantic kiss and sipped on champagne while walking around the Hornby Lighthouse in Watson's Bay, where the event was held.

Stunning: The actress turned fashion blogger looked incredible in the pinstripe all-in-one which was belted at the waist to accentuate her tiny midsection

As she posed side on, the 21-year-old gave onlookers an eyeful

Sarah is a former Neighbours star turned model and blogger who's cementing her status in the fashion world.

After starring on the popular soap, she launched her own website, Perks of Her, to keep her fans up-to-date with all of her pursuits in the world of fashion.

Sarah rose to fame at age 14 with a video that saw her 'dancing her eyebrows' to music on YouTube.

Style star: Sarah is a former Neighbours star turned model and blogger who's cementing her status in the fashion world

The 30-second clip went viral and established the teen as an Internet Queen.

She later went on to star as Madison, the daughter of Scott (Jason Donovan) and Charlene (Kylie Minogue) on long-running Channel Ten soap Neighbours.

The blonde beauty has also landed endorsement deals with Maybelline and Bonds Australia.

====== 2642 ========

MARRIED AT FIRST SIGHT REJECTS DEAN WELLS AND RYAN GALLAGHER CHAT UP GIRLS

They haven't had much luck in the love department since appearing on Married At First Sight earlier this year.

And it appears single Dean Wells and Ryan Gallagher are well and truly ready to mingle.

The two reality stars were seen chatting up the ladies during a boozy night out in Sydney on Thursday.

What lucky ladies! Married At First Sight star Dean Wells and Ryan Gallagher chatted up girls during a boozy night out in Sydney on Thursday

Hello there! The two men, who became friends after clashing on the Channel Nine social experiment, were both seen in deep conversation with two very attractive women on the dancefloor at the Abrand Jeans 5th birthday party

The two men, who became friends after clashing on the Channel Nine social experiment over Davina Rankin, were both seen in deep conversation with two very attractive women on the dancefloor at the Abrand Jeans 5th birthday party.

The pair were also joined by several other reality TV stars from The Bachelor and Love Island franchises.

Cassidy McGill showed off her sensational figure in a pair of figure-hugging jeans and a white strapless top, while Edyn 'Mac' Mackney looked equally amazing in black denim trousers and a low-cut red bodysuit.

Not much luck! Dean and Ryan haven't had much luck in the love department since appearing on Married At First Sight earlier this year

Having a ball! But Ryan certainly appeared to be in his element on Thursday night

Check it out! Ryan and his pal were seen looking around at fellow attractive partygoers

Following the bash, Dean and Ryan kicked on at another bar, Justin Hemmes' The Ivy in the CBD.

At the party, Ryan shocked onlookers as he stripped down to his underwear and pole danced with another man.

Posted to Instagram with the caption 'it's just got weirder', the TV personality was seen 'twerking' as he cavorted around the pole.

Happy: Dean was certainly in a happy mood as he mingled on the dancefloor

The wild display comes after Ryan was recently pictured at Channel Nine studios for an appearance on Today Extra earlier this week .

The sometimes stand-up comedian posed alongside Married At First Sight John Aiken, fueling speculation he was returning to the forthcoming season of the reality series.

'Fans were so obsessed with him, so Channel Nine were desperate to bring him back,' an insider told NW on Monday.

Looking good girls! Love Island's Cassidy McGill showed off her sensational figure in a pair of figure-hugging jeans and a white strapless top (right), while Edyn 'Mac' Mackney looked equally amazing in black denim trousers and a low-cut red bodysuit (left)

Last season, Ryan was 'married' to Davina, 26 - but they split after she was involved in a 'cheating' scandal with co-star Dean, 40.

According to NW, Ryan will not be paired with a spouse but will enter the social experiment a single man in the hopes of luring away one of the 'married' women.

The source added: 'They want to bring him in halfway through the season at a dinner party and see if any of the girls ditch their husbands for him.'

The news comes after Ryan confirmed he is officially back on the market.

Last week, the tradesman told Daily Mail Australia that he had split with New Zealand model Ayla Browne after a whirlwind three month romance.

====== 2643 ========

ROXY JACENKO RELEASES A NEW CHILDREN'S BOOK AFTER HER OWN EXPERIENCE OF BEING BULLIED AT SCHOOL

Sydney PR queen Roxy Jacenko is set to release a new children's book in February, aimed at addressing the issue of school bullying.

Titled Penelope's Playground - and co-credited to Roxy's daughter Pixie Curtis - it will be the mother-of-two's fifth book, but her first aimed at kids.

Roxy, 38, drew inspiration for the story from her own experience of bullying at school.

Scroll down for video

'I too know how it feels to be ostracised': Roxy Jacenko (pictured) announced the release of her new children's book on Friday, aimed to inspiring inclusiveness among kids, after her own experience of being bullied at school

The blonde businesswoman told Daily Mail Australia on Friday: 'As a cross-eyed toddler and teen, I too know how it feels to be ostracised because of being a little different – and more often than not, these differences can be beyond ones control.'

'I think we need to start educating kids from a young age to be far more accepting of one another, no matter what our differences are,' she added.

The book - whose characters are based on Roxy's own kids Pixie, six, and Hunter, four, and pet dog Oreo - follows young girl Penelope, who has a 'unique' style of personal dress.

Fans: The blonde businesswoman's Instagram followers welcomed the news, with one writing: 'Wish books like this and stories this important had been around when I was in school because I went through some similar things'

But a new girl at school 'brings Penelope's world crashing around her', according to the blurb on the back of the book.



Roxy took to Instagram on Friday to share a photo of the book, writing: 'This children's book is an essential for all families with young children.

'It talks about the fact that it's OK to be different and the importance of being kind and accepting of one another no matter what our differences or challenges are.'

Guiding light: The book - whose characters are based on Roxy's own kids Pixie, six, and Hunter, four, and pet dog Oreo - follows young girl Penelope, who has a 'unique' style of personal dress

Roxy's Instagram followers welcomed the news, with one writing: 'Wish books like this and stories this important had been around when I was in school because I went through some similar things.'

Roxy is married to Oliver Curtis, 33, who was jailed for a year for conspiracy to commit insider trading in 2016.

Penelope's Playground is scheduled for release in February next year but pre-orders are available from dymocks.com.au

====== 2644 ========

FORMER BACHELOR STAR NONI JANUR FLAUNTS CLEAVAGE IN PLUNGING DENIM BUSTIER AT FASHION PARTY

She recently opened up about the crippling insecurity that left her unable to leave the house.

But former Bachelor star Noni Janur seemed very confident on Thursday evening, putting on a busty display at the Abrand Jeans 5th Birthday party in Sydney.

Enhancing her assets in a denim bustier, the 27-year-old also turned heads in a pair of ripped Daisy Dukes.

Busting out! Former Bachelor star Noni Janur flaunted her cleavage in plunging denim bustier at fashion party in Sydney on Thursday evening

Wearing a natural make-up palette, she showcased her stunning freckled complexion, something she said she was once hugely secure about.

Also attending the bash were Love Island stars Cassidy McGill and Edyn 'Mac' Mackney.

Noni hasn't always the confident girl that we see today.

The former reality star recently admitted that she was once so self-conscious about her freckles that she couldn't go out without wearing layers of makeup.

'Once upon a time I wouldn’t leave the house without wearing this tattoo cover concealer to cover all of my freckles,' she wrote in an Instagram post earlier this month

Not shy: The reality star seemed very confident while putting on a busty display at the Abrand Jeans 5th Birthday party

'I would put layers and layers of makeup on because I was so insecure,' she continued.

'So to be able to post these photos of me with nothing but my brows and lashes done is actually incredible and it’s so amazing to know how much I have grown!'

She finished: 'We all have been there with having insecurities. Everyone has their own story, everyone has been in a similar situation so remember that you’re not alone.'

Meanwhile, Noni shares a successful long-distance relationship with boyfriend Sam Johnson, despite the pair living over seven thousand miles apart.

After announcing their romance in February last year, Sam moved to Los Angeles six months later to chase a career in acting and modelling, as Noni remained in Sydney.

Speaking to Daily Mail Australia earlier this year, the bikini model revealed: 'Long distance is something you have to plan - plan to see each other, plan to make that phone call every day. It's majority trust, obviously, and effort.'

'I guess this day and age you can use your phone and see each other and it's pretty much like you're in the same country anyway and then it's more exciting when you see each other,' she confessed, adding they see each other every two or three months.

====== 2645 ========

LOVE ISLAND'S CASSIDY MCGILL AND EDYN 'MAC' MACKNEY PARTY IT UP AT BOOZY SYDNEY BASH

They've been a regular twosome on the party circuit since starring on Love Island together earlier this year.

And close pals Cassidy McGill and Edyn 'Mac' Mackney put on a typically glam display at the Abrand 5th Birthday bash on Sydney on Thursday night.

Cassidy, 23 showed off her sensational figure in a pair of figure-hugging jeans and a white strapless top.

Getting messy! Love Island's Cassidy McGill and Edyn 'Mac' Mackney put on glam display while partying it up at a boozy Sydney bash on Thursday night... with plastic trash strewn all over the dancefloor

Meanwhile, Edyn, 22 looked equally amazing in black denim trousers and a low-cut red bodysuit that she showed off while throwing shapes to the music.

However their polished display glaringly contrasted with the party venue, which saw plastic containers and beverage cups lay strewn across the dancefloor.

Meanwhile, many revelers appeared to be largely worse for wear with some offering obscene gestures.

Getting messier: Their polished display glaringly contrasted with the party venue, which saw plastic containers and beverage cups lay strewn across the dancefloor

Throwing shapes: Edyn, 22 made sure to show off all angles of her her glam ensemble while dancing to the music

Cassidy was recently slammed after revealing skipping workouts affected her mental health.

This week, the blonde took to social media to explain she had taken a 4-day break from the gym after rolling her ankle.

'I haven't wanted to look in the mirror. I've just felt really, really sh**t. Mentally, physically, emotionally, spiritually,' she said in a clip posted on Instagram.

Frank: Cassidy was recently slammed after revealing skipping workouts affected her mental health. This week, the blonde took to social media to explain she had taken a 4-day break from the gym after rolling her ankle

'I want to remind you guys that training and exercising even just walking, is a free form of therapy. You should try it,' she said.

Not everyone appreciated Cassidy's positive message however, with one anonymous person writing her a negative message.

It read: 'There's people dying in Africa and your (sic) complaining that having not exercised in 4 days has mad you feel depressed'.

Cassidy replied: 'What must it be like to be the person that looks for the negative in everything?'

====== 2646 ========

FANS SLAM TAMMY HEMBROW'S BRALESS LOOK AS 'UNCLASSY' AS SHE FLASHES UNDERBOOB SHOPPING

She is friends with the Kardashians, owns her own fashion label and has an estimated net worth of $2 million.

But on Thursday, Instagram model Tammy Hembrow raised eyebrows for wearing a revealing ensemble while shopping at luxury retailer Saint Laurent.

Flaunting some serious underboob in a barely-there crop top without a bra, fans quickly labelled the 24-year-old's outfit as 'inappropriate', 'unflattering' and 'not classy'.

Scroll down for video

Would YOU wear this shopping? Fans slam Tammy Hembrow's braless look as 'unclassy' as she flashes underboob and her taut stomach inside luxury Saint Laurent store

Tammy, who is the mother to two young children, flaunted her gym-honed frame in skintight workout shorts and a halterneck crop top by Staple And Hue.

Leaving little to the imagination, it was clear Tammy had neglected to wear a bra during the outing, with the tiny white top barely covering her her chest.

The star carried a jumper in her arms, but chose not to wear it for the in-store selfie.

Fans expressed confusion at her shopping ensemble, writing 'How is this outfit appropriate to shop in?' and 'Is that how she shops? Brave!'

Another joked: 'How does she walk into ysl like this? I walk in my jeans and a top and I get stared down?'

'How does she walk into ysl like this?' Fans expressed confusion at her revealing shopping ensemble as they claimed it was 'so not classy'

That's cheeky! The fit mother-of-two regularly uploads photos and videos at the gym in cleavage-baring crop tops and cheeky shorts

While many labeled it 'so not classy to go to Saint Laurent in this', others complimented the star's extreme confidence.

It comes after the star raised eyebrows for wearing booty shoots that revealed parts of her derriere while at a public gym on the Gold Coast this week.

The fit mother-of-two regularly uploads photos and videos at the gym in cleavage-baring crop tops and cheeky shorts, and has previously performed beachside yoga in a G-string bikini.

Fit mama! Tammy shares two children - daughter Saskia, two, and son Wolf, three - with ex-partner Reece Hawkins, 24

In September, she posted a racy photo bending over in the gym in very high-cut shorts to promote her free Tammy Fit fitness app.

Tammy shares two children - daughter Saskia, two, and son Wolf, three - with ex-partner Reece Hawkins, 24.

The fitness entrepreneur said she and Reece ended their relationship in June because they simply grew apart.

The couple were together for four years.

====== 2647 ========

BAD BOY MODEL JORDAN BARRETT IS IN THE PROCESS OF OPENING UP A DAY SPA IN SYDNEY

Jordan Barrett appears to be looking for a change of pace.

The 22-year-old model, renowned for being a party boy, is currently in the process of opening up a day spa in Sydney's exclusive Double Bay neighbourhood.

Jordan was spotted checking in on the site, which is still under construction, on Friday.

Businessman: Jordan Barrett is currently in the process of opening up a day spa in Sydney's exclusive Double Bay neighbourhood and was seen visiting the site on Thursday

The signage has already gone up for the spa though, and he has decided to call it Shelter.

Jordan was dressed casually for the inspection, stepping out in black cargo pants, which he had teamed with a plain black T-shirt.

He also donned black sneakers with no socks.

Construction workers were seen working on the site, which boasts plenty of natural sunlight.

Model looks: Jordan was dressed casually for the inspection, stepping out in black cargo pants, which he had teamed with a plain black T-shirt

Taking shelter: The signage has already gone up for the spa though, and he has decided to call it Shelter

Hard at work: Construction workers were seen working on the site, which boasts plenty of natural sunlight

Feeling hot? He also donned black sneakers with no socks

The model appears to have opted for a sleek, modern outfitting, with the exterior featuring wooden slats, grey brickwork and neatly trimmed hedges.

Even the signage is simplistic and classic, blending in seamlessly with the rest of the premises.

It's an interesting business move for the star, who is famous for his hedonistic lifestyle.

The new ventures comes after an anonymous fashion insider allegedly claimed Jordan's modelling career was 'over' because of his hard-partying ways.

Changing his ways? It's an interesting business move for the star, who is famous for his hedonistic lifestyle

Trendy: The often model appears to have opted for a sleek, modern outfitting, with the exterior featuring wooden slats, grey brickwork and neatly trimmed hedges

New gig: In an interview with The Daily Telegraph just this month, an anonymous fashion insider claimed Jordan's modelling career was 'over' because of his hard-partying ways

Health-kick: The party boy appears to be changing up his image with his latest business venture

Work in progress: Construction is still underway on Jordan's new spa, but it appears to be nearing completion

'His heyday is well and truly over,' revealed the source to The Daily Telegraph .

'When he first started out, he was this fresh, baby-faced kid, lauded for his laid-back Byron Bay vibe.

'These days he is considered a disheveled and loose party boy. This catches up with you. The modelling world right now is about health, fitness and well-being.'

However, a source close to elite male model hit back, telling Daily Mail Australia that The Telegraph published the story as a way of 'getting back' at the male model for defending his pal Emily Ratajkowski during her clash with the paper's key celebrity journalist recently.

'It's just because he defended Emily after the GQ Awards!' the source told Daily Mail Australia.

Last week, Jordan defended Emily when a Daily Telegraph journalist claimed she acted 'rudely' at the recent GQ Man Of The Year Awards in Sydney.

====== 2648 ========

KARL STEFANOVIC SNACKS ON CARROTS AMID 'SHREDDING FOR WEDDING' TO FIANCÉE JASMINE YARBROUGH

He has enlisted a top celebrity transformation coach and nutritionist to help him lose weight before his wedding to fiancée Jasmine Yarbrough.

And with two weeks until their nuptials, Karl Stefanovic appears to be taking his health kick very seriously.

The TV host, 44, was spotted in his activewear on Wednesday and carrying a snack of carrots and celery in his hands after a sweaty workout in Sydney.

It's crunch time! Karl Stefanovic ramps up health kick by snacking on carrots after a sweaty workout as wedding to fiancée Jasmine Yarbrough fast approaches

Set to tie the knot with Mara & Mine shoe designer Jasmine, 34, in a lavish Mexican ceremony on December 8, Karl has made no secret of the fact he is 'shredding for the wedding'.

While he claims his training with celebrity transformation coach Chief Brabon is always grueling, Karl was all smiles as he left the gym.

Dressed in a black T-shirt, navy shorts and white sneakers, the Nine presenter slung his work clothes over his arm and a large bag over his shoulder.

Happy it's over? While he claims his training with celebrity transformation coach Chief Brabon is always grueling, Karl was all smiles as he left the gym

Shredding for the wedding! Dressed in a black T-shirt, navy shorts and white sneakers, the Nine presenter left the gym in a cheery manner

Refueling: Chatting on the phone with a cheery grin, Karl held an open container of chopped carrots and celery and a bottle of water

Chatting on the phone with a cheery grin, Karl held an open container of chopped carrots and celery and a bottle of water.

Karl recently revealed that his drive to trim down came after a doctor advised him to lose weight and make changes to his physical health.

'I was fatter than I thought,' Karl explained in an Instagram post.

He added that while it's been'tough' adopting a new healthier lifestyle, he's proud of the results he's already seen.

Don't trip! The laces on Karl's sneakers were left untied as he strolled along the footpath

'I was fatter than I though': Karl recently revealed that his drive to trim down came after a doctor advised him to lose weight and make changes to his physical health

'It's been really positive. For anyone out there I truly believe it's never too late,' he wrote of undergoing a strict exercise and diet overhaul.

However, ahead of his Mexican nuptials next month, it has been claimed the Today host was encouraged to lose weight by his fiancée Jasmine.

According to Woman's Day on Monday, the former model wanted them to look fit and healthy so their wedding photos are as 'perfect' as the day itself.

'She doesn't want them to look back at their wedding photos in 20 years with regret,' claimed a source.

'She doesn't want them to look back at their wedding photos in 20 years with regret': Ahead of his Mexican nuptials next month, it has been claimed the Today host was encouraged to lose weight by his fiancée Jasmine Yarbrough (L)

Karl and Jasmine announced their engagement in February, just over a year after the couple met.

They reportedly met on a lavish boat cruise in Sydney in December 2016, just months after Stefanovic's high-profile split from his wife of 21 years, Cassandra Thorburn.

Karl shares three children with his ex-wife Cassandra.

====== 2649 ========

JAKE ELLIS FURIOUSLY HITS BACK AT RUMOURS HE FAKED SPLIT WITH MEGAN MARX FOR BACHELOR IN PARADISE

Megan Marx and Jake Ellis announced their romantic reunion on Thursday night.

And among the congratulatory comments online, Jake furiously hit back at claims the couple faked their split simply to be cast on Bachelor In Paradise's season two.

During his online outburst, the 31-year-old claimed that both he and Megan, 29, were actually approached by Channel 10 to appear, but each chose to decline the offer.

Scroll down for video

'We were both asked but said no': Jake Ellis furiously hits back at rumours he faked split with Megan Marx for invite to Bachelor In Paradise amid reunion

In the comments under Megan's announcement of their rekindled romance, Jake hit back while replying to Married At First Sight's Nasser Sultan, 51.

After Nasser teased that the couple had simply reunited as they 'didn't get invited to Paradise', Jake quickly saw red while addressing the touchy subject.

The reality TV personality told Nasser to 'seriously f*** off', adding: 'We were both asked but said no for the obvious reason'.

However, moments later Megan cast doubt on her boyfriend's claims by briefly adding a note to her caption suggesting only Jake was asked to appear on the show.

Touchy subject? After MAFS' Nasser Sultan teased that the couple had simply got back together as they 'didn't get invited to Paradise', Jake quickly saw red

Hit a nerve! The reality TV personality told Nasser to 'seriously f*** off', adding: 'We were both asked but said no for the obvious reason'

Megan has since deleted the addition to her caption, along with Jake and Nasser's chain of comments, while also blocking the Married At First Sight star.

Taking to Instagram on Thursday, the blonde initially shared a tender image of the couple with a lengthy post announcing the good news.

'I have a pile of love letters in the drawer next to my bed,' she wrote.

'They’re all from Jake and most of them I didn’t deserve. I spent the course of our relationship with one foot in and one foot out, and the letters are pleas to remind me what we had, what I’d be giving up if I ran.'

Who was asked to appear? Moments later Megan cast doubt on her boyfriend's claims by briefly adding a note to her caption suggesting only Jake was asked to appear on the show

Explaining she fled to Bali in the wake of the split, she claimed Jake worked hard to win her back with a string of romantic gestures, with successful results.

'I found someone that took responsibility, fought relentlessly for me, and has taken time to know me, and love me. I said in Paradise that I couldn’t imagine my life without you and that hasn’t changed. You’re my best friend and my home.

Finishing the post, she wrote: 'I love you. Onwards and upwards you sexy hunk of a man.'

However, fans have long questioned the 'split' after the pair were frequently spotted together over the past few months.

And with their break-up announced days after fellow reality stars Keira Maguire and Jarrod Woodgate called it quits, some fans on social media became suspicious after the splits seemed timed with the Bachelor in Paradise casting in September.

====== 2650 ========

VIDEO: MAN SCREAMS FOR HELP AS HE CLINGS TO THE BONNET OF HIS STOLEN VAN

Video: Man screams for help as he clings to the bonnet of his stolen van

Footage recorded by passersby shows a workman clinging to his speeding Ford Transit windscreen driven by carjackers and screaming for help before it races around a corner in Stoke.

====== 2651 ========

VIDEO: LILY ALLEN REVEALS SHE PUT ON 2 STONE DURING HER TOUR IN AMERICA

Video: Lily Allen reveals she put on 2 stone during her tour in America

Lily Allen reveals she put on 2 stone and 'grew a beard because of all the hormones in the chicken' she ate during her tour in America.

====== 2652 ========

VIDEO: NYPD SAID A WOMAN IN QUEENS, NEW YORK, FOUGHT OFF MALE WITH A BITE

Video: NYPD said a woman in Queens fought off man with a well-placed bite

Police in Queens, New York say a woman took a bite out of a man who allegedly attacked her and forced her to perform oral sex. NYPD have released photos and footage of a 21-year-old man they are looking for in...

====== 2653 ========

VIDEO: SCOTT MORRISON REFUSES TO BACK DOWN OVER PLAN TO DEPORT TERRORISTS

Video: Scott Morrison refuses to back down over plan to deport terrorists

Scott Morrison refuses to back down over plan to deport terrorists in interview with Karl Stefanovic and explains why.

====== 2654 ========

VIDEO: VANDERPUMP RULES ACTRESS KRISTEN DOUTE GOES OUT DRINKING IN SYDNEY

0:07

People run away as shots are fired inside a mall in Alabama

====== 2655 ========

VIDEO: WOMAN CAUGHT FOLLOWING AUSTRALIA POST VAN AND STEALING PRESENTS

0:07

People run away as shots are fired inside a mall in Alabama

====== 2656 ========

VIDEO: MAN GUILTY OF BASHING HELLS ANGELS BIKIE TO DEATH WITH SPANNER

Video: Man guilty of bashing Hells Angels bikie to death with spanner

A man has been found guilty of murder after he bashed a Hells Angels bikie to death with a 2kg spanner at a trucking yard.

====== 2657 ========

VIDEO:ALI OETJEN STRUGGLES TO CONTAIN HER AMPLE ASSETS IN RACY SWIMSUIT

Video: Ali Oetjen struggles to contain her ample assets in racy swimsuit

Former Bachelorette Ali Oetjen struggles to contain her ample assets in racy swimsuit while on beach date with Taite.

====== 2658 ========

VIDEO: HIDDEN CAMERA REVEALS SERIAL BURGLAR IS NEIGHBOUR WITH KNICKER FETISH

0:07

People run away as shots are fired inside a mall in Alabama

====== 2659 ========

VIDEO: DAN DOTSON REVEALS MAN FOUND £5.8 MILLION CASH INSIDE STORAGE UNIT

Video: Dan Dotson reveals man found £5.8 million cash inside storage unit

Famous American auctioneer Dan Dotson posted a video telling the story of how he was told by a woman at charity auction in Indio, California that a man's found £5.8MILLION in cash inside a £390 second-hand storage...

====== 2660 ========

VIDEO: AUSTRALIAN MODEL MEGAN GALE USES NON-SURGICAL TREATMENTS

0:07

People run away as shots are fired inside a mall in Alabama

====== 2661 ========

VIDEO: RENAE LAWRENCE GREETED BY MEDIA SCRUM UPON RETURNING TO AUSTRALIA

0:07

People run away as shots are fired inside a mall in Alabama

====== 2662 ========

DISABILITY PENSIONER IS ALLEGEDLY ASSAULTED IN A GOLD COAST UNDERGROUND CAR PARK

A disability pensioner has spoken of the terrifying moment she suffered a fractured skull, broken ribs and a busted eye socket after she was allegedly beaten and kicked to the ground.

Emma Martin, 36, was in her Gold Coast apartment building's underground car park when she was allegedly approached by a fellow tenant.

Ms Martin had been smoking a cigarette.

'You're not allowed to smoke down here mate,' a male voice can be heard saying in a video captured by Ms Martin's friend Kylie Klievens.

Scroll down for video

Disability pensioner Emma Martin (right) has spoken of the terrifying moment she was allegedly savagely beaten and kicked to the ground in her apartment car park

The alleged attack left Emma Martin (pictured) with a fractured skull, broken ribs, a busted eye socket and a burst eardrum

'What is your deal mate? F**k off!' Ms Martin can be heard replying.

The man can be seen in the footage allegedly lunging and striking at Ms Martin who falls to the ground behind a parked car.

The '20 minute incident' also shows the man allegedly kick Ms Martin while she is struggling to get up from the ground.

'My baby's sick... she's got asthma!' a male voice can be heard saying.

The man can be seen in the footage allegedly lunging and striking at Ms Martin who falls to the ground behind a parked car

'I was really scared. I nearly died down here,' Ms Martin told Nine News

The alleged attack left Ms Martin with a fractured skull, broken ribs, a busted eye socket and a burst eardrum.

'I was really scared. I nearly died down here,' Ms Martin told Nine News.

Rewi Borell has been charged with assault occasioning bodily harm and is due to face Southport Magistrate's Court next week.

====== 2663 ========

SYDNEY BOARDING MASTER VICTOR THOMAS HIGGS SENTENCED TO 12 YEARS IN JAIL

A man who was sexually abused as a child by his boarding master at one of Sydney's wealthiest schools says Victor Thomas Higgs is 'pure evil' and hopes he 'rots in hell'.

Before the 81-year-old was sentenced to 12 years' jail on Friday, his victims told the New South Wales District Court about the devastating impact of Higgs' predatory behaviour in the 1970s and 1980s at St Ignatius' College, Riverview.

They collectively described decades of relationship and intimacy issues, anxiety, substance abuse, shame and distrust.

A man who was sexually abused as a child by his boarding master at one of Sydney's wealthiest schools says Victor Thomas Higgs (pictured) is 'pure evil' and hopes he 'rots in hell'

Higgs sexually abused his victims in the 1970s and 1980s at Sydney's St Ignatius' College, Riverview (pictured)

One victim said that because of Higgs, he'd lived for more than 30 years without any self-esteem, his trust in people had been shattered and his marriage had fallen apart.

'He is evil and I hope he rots in hell - in actual fact, hell is too good for him,' he said in his victim impact statement.

Higgs was found guilty in October of 16 charges of indecent assault on six boys in the boarding house and at a NSW beach house.

'To this day, the offender is still in denial,' Judge Christopher Robison said in sentencing him.

Judge Robison said Higgs, who was 34 at the first offence, took advantage of the very young and vulnerable boys boarding in the prestigious Lane Cove college, planning attacks and conducting them in the privacy of his bedroom, office or other locations.

'He was trawling the seas for the weak and vulnerable,' he said.

Judge Robison sympathised with the victims and said they deserved the protection from the 'whole school'.

'Sadly, they did not get it,' he said.

One victim said that because of Higgs (pictured), he'd lived for more than 30 years without any self-esteem, his trust in people had been shattered and his marriage had fallen apart

'They need not be ashamed of anything because they did nothing wrong.'

In one incident, he told a young boy he needed to inspect how he was progressing through puberty and ordered the boy to undress completely.

The older man then touched various parts of the boy's body, saying 'you will grow hair here' and then cupping the student's genitals.

Another victim described hearing Higgs making a 'purring-like sound' as he assaulted them.

Victims applauded as Higgs was led from the courtroom.

'See you later,' one man said.

He was sentenced to a seven-and-a-half-years before he's eligible for parole.

Former deputy prime minister Barnaby Joyce told The Australian after the guilty verdicts that he and other boarders at Riverview knew Higgs was a 'creep' and banded together to try to protect each other from him.

They didn't understand they could have complained about him, Mr Joyce said.

====== 2664 ========

HOW ONE PHONE CALL TO KIDS' HELPLINE SAVED MOLLY'S LIFE DURING AN OVERDOSE AS A TEENAGER

Chances are Molly Koning would be dead if Kids Helpline didn't exist.

The Queensland woman has struggled with mental health issues and has attempted to take her own life on numerous occasions since she was 12, when she first began self harming herself to deal with schoolyard bullies.

Now 21, she still regularly turns to Kids Helpline, which answered its eight millionth call for help this week.

'I've called them at least 25 times over the years, if not more,' Molly told Daily Mail Australia.

Sue (left) and Jon Koning had no idea their daughter Molly (middle) had been calling Kids Helpline until they got a call from a paramedic that Molly, then 14, had suffered an overdose

'That's not counting the times I chickened out and hung up. They mean so, so much to me. The service has 100 per cent saved my life.

'There is nothing else out there that has given me the hope and support they have. They don't have an easy job, especially when they usually don't know the outcome.'

Her parents had no idea of the seriousness of Molly's battle that their youngest child had been turning to Kids Helpline for support until two years later when they let Molly stay at home alone for the day because she had been feeling unwell.

They later received the shock news Molly, then 14, had taken an overdose while on the phone to Kids Helpline.

'I got a call from a paramedic saying "I'm at your house, where your daughter is gravely ill",' Mrs Koning said.

'I had no idea what they were talking about, how they got in contact. We knew she was struggling and that something wasn't right but had no idea of how bad it was.'

But it's not the worst of Molly's many attempts of taking her life.

'One time she was in a coma and we were sitting by her bed, not knowing whether she was going to come out of it,' Mrs Koning told Daily Mail Australia.

Molly Koning (pictured) says she wouldn't be alive today if Kids Helpline didn't exist

Molly (pictured at age 13) was just 12 when she called Kids Helpline for the first time

Molly, pictured with parents Jon and Sue attended Kids Helpline this week, when it answered its eight millionth call for help

Molly's focus right now is on her ongoing journey dealing with mental health issues.

She sees a therapist once a week and has become passionate advocate for mental health.

She can use Kids Helpline for another four years until she turns 25.

'I want to open the conversation about mental illness that it can happen at a young age,' Molly told Daily Mail Australia.

'It's okay to be not okay. It's okay to reach out. You don't have tell the world but telling someone like a makes the world of difference.'

The Koning's will be eternally grateful to Kids Helpline.

'If the service wasn't around, there could have been a very different outcome with Molly,' Ms Koning said.

Her husband added: 'Molly is my hero with what's she's been through.'

The Koning's urged other parents to start a conversation about mental health with their teenage children.

Molly (pictured as a teen) 12, first began self harming herself to deal with schoolyard bullies

'Every day with Molly (pictured) is a bonus,' mum Sue Koning told Daily Mail Australia

'This can happen to any family anytime anywhere,' Mrs Koning said.

'We need to get rid of the stigma that prevents people from talking about it.'

Molly's parents still fear they will one day get that dreaded call.

'We live with that fear and hope that day never comes,' Mrs Koning said.

'Every day with Molly is a bonus.'

Launched in 1991, a young person has attempted to contact Kids Helpline every 56 seconds, which now receives 800 calls or online requests for help every day.

'While the eight million figure is an important milestone for us, we know our work isn't done,' Kids Helpline chief executive Tracy Adams said.

'While we do our very best with the resources we have, more than 186,000 calls and requests for help have already gone unanswered this year alone.'

Kids Helpline: 1800 55 1800

Lifeline: 13 11 14

====== 2665 ========

CHRISTOPHER WATTS' MOTHER-IN-LAW SUSPECTED HIM OF KILLING FAMILY

Shanann Watts' mother immediately expected her daughter's husband had killed her and even warned law enforcement he would cover up the murder by hiding their bodies in oil, it has been revealed.

A 2,000-page case file was released Wednesday after Christopher Lee Watts was convicted of slaying his pregnant wife Shanann along with their two daughters Bella, four, and Celeste, three, and it reveals Sandra Rzucek's correct suspicion.

'She stated that Christopher is acting, "Weird," and out of the ordinary. She said that Christopher is telling people, "He has to go to work," and that just doesn't seem right. She felt that he is going out to pour oil on the bodies to dispose of them somewhere,' The Denver Post reports was in a Frederick Police Department supplemental filing.

Shanann Watts' mother immediately expected her daughter's husband had killed his family. She was pictured as Watts received three consecutive life sentences without parole Monday

2,000-page case file was released Wednesday after Watts was convicted of slaying his pregnant wife Shanann along with their two daughters Bella, four, and Celeste, three

Sandra Rzucek warned police he would cover up the murder by hiding their bodies in oil. Here she is pictured November 6 when he made his guilty plea to avoid the death sentence

Filing says: 'She stated that Christopher is acting, "Weird," and out of the ordinary. She said that Christopher is telling people, "He has to go to work," and that just doesn't seem right'

Christopher, 33, was sentenced to life in prison on Monday for also killing their unborn son Nico.

He pleaded guilty to killing his family on the night of August 12 in their in Frederick, Colorado home. Watts then dumped their bodies in oil he had access to at the company he worked for.

The newly-released documents include chilling text messages between Watts and Shanann discussing their crumbling marriage, and an interview with Watts' alleged mistress, Nichol Kessinger.

Watts, 33, was sentenced to life in prison on Monday for murdering his pregnant wife and their children. New documents shed light on the case

Watts killed his pregnant wife Shanann, their daughters four-year-old Bella and three-year-old Celeste, and unborn son Nico. Text messages indicate the relationship was frayed

Watts' alleged mistress, Nichol Kessinger (above) claimed that his financial troubles were the main catalyst for the murders. Prosecutors say he wanted to start a new life with her, though

Kessinger told investigators that Watts and his wife 'did not get along well and their financial life was also troubling,' investigators wrote.

'She said Chris was struggling with finances and now he had a third kid on the way and she does not know if he could afford another kid,' the report said.

'Shanann was not responsive to this financial trouble. Nichol said Chris always told her he wanted a third child and wanted a boy.'

Kessinger said that while she doesn't believe her affair with Watts was the catalyst for the murders, it may have 'accelerated the process.' She told them that 'money is the biggest catalyst for this event happening.'

Prosecutors disagree, though, believing that Watt's motive for the murder was his desire to start a new life with Kessinger, whom he had been secretly dating for about two months.

May 29, 2018

Shanann films a video revealing to Watts that she is pregnant for a third time. It doesn't seem to reveal any sign of problems in the relationship.

Investigators write: 'Shanann began filming in the kitchen of 2825 Saratoga Trail. she stepped in front of the camera briefly to show off her shirt with the embossed words, 'Oops… we did it again.' When she stepped out of the camera's view Dieter (the family dog) ran off to welcome Watts entering the home.

'As Watts walked into the kitchen, he halted mid stride and stared in Shanann's direction. His confused expression transformed into a grin and he walked to her saying, 'We did it again.'

'When Watts returned in view of the camera he is holding a pregnancy test and they discuss the positive result. Watts leaned in, kissed Shanann and, with a large grin, says, 'l guess when you want to, it happens – Wow.''

Kessinger told police that Watts was struggling with finances, and that she did not know if he could afford another kid.

The video was posted to Facebook on June 11.

July 6: Shanann and Bella are seen during a trip to North Carolina without Watts

July 9

In late June, Shanann traveled to North Carolina with daughters Bella and Celeste for a six-week trip visiting Watts' and her own parents.

Watts joined them for only one week of the trip.

Text messages between the married couple over the five weeks they were apart indicate that relations between Shanann and her in-laws were frayed.

'Shanann discussed how Watts' mother gave Celeste ice cream with nuts in the ingredients,' investigators wrote, summarizing the messages.

'Shanann felt this was done in defiance of Shanann's warnings of Celeste's food allergies.

'Shanann told Watts, 'You should call your dad and tell him you did not appreciate your mom putting your daughter at risk today, nor do you like that she teased our girls.

'You should also say you don't appreciate her saying they have to learn they can't always get what they want! (Referring to ice cream) they are 2 and 4!'

July 24

The couple had been apart for nearly a month now, with Shanann and the children in North Carolina visiting Watts' parents.

At 6.02pm, Shanann texted Watts: 'l realized during this trip what's missing in our relationship! lt's only one way emotions and feelings. I can't come back like this. I need you to meet me halfway. You don't consider others at all, nor think about others feelings.'

Watts replied that he was sorry and he loved her.

Shanann responded: 'l try to give you space, but while you are working and living the bachelor life l'm carrying our 3rd and fighting with our two kids daily and trying to work and make money. lt's not hard texting love you and miss you. lf you don't mean it then I get it, but we need to talk. I kept looking at my phone all night and no response from you. Like seriously! We didn't just start dating yesterday! We've been together 8 years and have 2.5 kids together.'

Shanann and her daughters are seen on July 29 during a six-week visit to North Carolina

August 5

Two days before Shanann and the girls returned to Colorado, her texts with Watts indicate things were not going well in the relationship.

10.34pm: Shanann texts Watts: 'Being away from you, it's not the help I missed because I handle that. lt was exhausting, but with school that's not hard. I missed the smell of you, you touching me when l'm cooking, you touching me in bed, you touching me period! I missed holding you and snuggling with you. I missed eating with you, watching tv with you. I missed staring at you, I missed making love with you. I missed everything about you. I couldn't wait to touch you, hold you, kiss you, make love to you, smell you, laugh with you. I couldn't wait to celebrate 8 years with you… lf you are done, don't love me, don't want to work this out, not happy anymore and only staying because of kids, I NEED you to tell me.'

11.00pm: Shanann asked Watts: 'Would you stay with me if we didn't have kids?'

11.09pm: Shanann asked Watts, 'l just don't get it. You don't fall out of love in 5 weeks.'

Minutes later she pondered, 'How can you sleep? Our marriage is crumbling in front of us and you can sleep.'

August 7 to 12: The murders

Shanann and the girls returned to Colorado on August 7. Her last post on social media was around 4.30pm on August 9.

On August 10, Shanann traveled to Scottsdale, Arizona for a work event, leaving the two young girls behind with Watts.

A photo taken by a friend shows her at a group dinner at Yard House in Scottsdale on August 11. She returned to Colorado the following day.

Shanann (second from right) is seen on August 11 in a group photo with coworkers during a trip to Scottsdale, Arizona. Watts murdered her late the night of the following day

The murders took place late the night of August 12 or early August 13, within hours of Shanann's return home.

Watts wrapped Shanann's body in a fitted sheet and buried her in a shallow grave on the property of the oil and gas company where he worked, investigators said.

August 13

'During a respite following the murder of his family, and disposing of their bodies at a desolate well site, Watts searched Google for the lyrics to 'Battery' by Metallica,' the report says.

The lyrics include the lines: 'lunacy has found me – Cannot stop the battery – Pounding out aggression – Turns into obsession – Cannot kill the battery – Cannot kill the family.'

The following day, Watts gave a television interview making a national appeal for his family's safe return.

Watts gave an interview pleading for the safe return of his wife and daughters. Police say he confessed to their murders the following day

August 15

Frederick Police administered a polygraph test to Watts.

Investigators say he came to the test in loose clothing and was wearing no wedding ring.

The polygraph test indicated Watts was lying, and the tester confronted Watts with the deception. After a long conversation, Watts admitted to killing his wife, but insisted that she had killed the girls. He admitted to putting the girls in the oil tanks.

The bodies of daughters Bella and Celeste were found in an oil tank near the grave on August 15. The report graphically details how the bodies of the girls were recovered from the oil tank.

Watts was arrested and charged with all three murders.

Aftermath

Investigators searched the phone of Kessinger, who was having an affair with Watts. They found searches for sexual videos and positions, and hours' worth of searches for 'Shanann Watts.'

After the murders police say Kessinger searched for 'can cops trace text messages', and made multiple searches for Amber Frey, the mistress of convicted murderer Scott Peterson.

She searched whether 'people hate Amber Frey' and researched Frey's subsequent book deal.

Watts' father Ronnie told investigators that his son 'described Shanann as controlling, narcissistic and possible bi-polar,' though he had not seen any verbal of physical altercations between his son and Shanann.

Watts accepted a plea deal earlier this month to avoid facing the death penalty.

He was sentenced to three life terms in prison, without the possibility of parole.

====== 2666 ========

LEAGUE LEGEND REACHES OUT TO TEENAGE RUGBY STAR FACING PERMANENT SPINAL DAMAGE AND A BROKEN NECK

A rugby league legend has reached out and thrown his support behind a teenage sporting star who was left with severe spinal injuries after an accident at training.

Alex Noble, 16, was training in Wahroonga, on Sydney's North Shore, when he injured his spinal cord on October 21.

The Year 10 student now has no feeling below his upper chest or his elbows, The Sydney Morning Herald reported.

Now Melbourne Storm and Australian Kangaroos star player Cameron Smith has reached out to Noble and encouraged him to continue his battle to recovery.

Scroll down for video

Alex Noble, 16, (pictured) was training in Wahroonga, on Sydney's North Shore, when he injured his spinal cord on October 21

Rugby league legend Cameron Smith (pictured) reached out to Alex Noble encouraging him to continue his fight on the road to recovery

'Mate, I just wanted to send you a really quick message because I heard you are doing it a little bit tough lately,' Smith said via an Instagram video.

'I just want to say stay positive, I know you have got plenty of people, family and friends around you mate that love you very much and are there to support you.'

Smith said the people surrounding and supporting Alex would be key for his road to recovery.

'And obviously all the right people like medical staff around to help you on the road to recovery mate,' he said.

'So keep your chin up mate, keep fighting and I hope you're feeling better soon.'

Alex is the fifth teenager in Australia to be badly injured while playing rugby over the past five months.

Smith said the people surrounding and supporting Alex would be key for his road to recovery (Alex is pictured surrounded by his friends)

Alex Noble (pictured, left) was training when he injured his spinal cord on October 21

Alex's family has had support from members of his school and the local rugby community

Since the incident, the teenager, who is a student at St Ignatius College, Riverview, has only spoken a few words including 'I fight, you fight'.

'Alex was doing what he loves most: Training and playing, any sport, especially a sport with a ball,' his family told the school.

A website dedicated to Alex's story said: 'Alex may never walk again, but we all hope and pray he will regain the use of his arms, hands and fingers'.

The keen rugby player underwent surgery to insert a metal brace between his C4 and C6 vertebrae at the front and back of his neck in order to stabilise his spinal cord.

Four students involved in the Greater Public School competition in Queensland suffered serious injuries earlier this year.

Rugby Australia said there was a thorough review of the circumstances surrounding each injury and a spokesperson added injuries were rare, despite the five in the last year.

====== 2667 ========

BLACK FRIDAY CHAOS AS THOUSANDS OF BARGAIN HUNTERS CRAM INTO SHOPS

An American shopping tradition has swept Australian shores causing chaos at consumer hot spots.

Black Friday sales have brought thousands of bargain hunters to cram into shops around Australia in a bid to catch the best deals.

The eager shoppers were photographed lining the corners of designer stores Gucci and Burberry, in Sydney's CBD, on Friday afternoon.

Scroll down for video

An American shopping tradition has swept Australian shores causing long queues at consumer hot spots

The eager shoppers were photographed lining the corners of designer stores Gucci and Burberry, in Sydney's CBD, on Friday afternoon

Employees of the luxurious fashion label Gucci were seen handing out bottles of water to the consumers as they braced sweltering and windy conditions to purchase the designer goods.

The prominent shopping day continues to infiltrate international markets following its success in America.

Black Friday follows America's Thanksgiving holiday and marks the launch of the Christmas shopping season.

The day, in America, is renown for slashing prices with consumers lining in front of stores in the early hours of the morning to make use of the discounts.

The Australian market continues to follow suit, launching discounts on fashion, electronics and homewares across the country and online.

Department store David Jones has up to 60 per cent already reduced women's, men's and kids' fashion, shoes accessories and homewares.

Employees of the luxurious fashion label Gucci were seen handing out bottles of water to the consumers as they braced sweltering and windy conditions to purchase the designer goods

Black Friday follows America's Thanksgiving holiday and marks the launch of the Christmas shopping season

Electronic retailer JB Hi-Fi has discounts on big screen TVs, computers, mobile phones and plenty more in their 'price blitz'.

Sydney-based online fashion store The Iconic has 30 per cent off on selected items.

E-commerce giant Amazon has marked its first Black Friday shopping event since its Australian launch with thousands of products heavily discounted.

'We are delighted to bring our first ever Black Friday deals event to Australian customers with tens of thousands of products available at discounted prices,' Amazon Australia country manager Rocco Braeuniger said in a statement.

'With deals on everything from active wear brands such as Lorna Jane and Puma, to everyday essentials such as Nivea and big brand skin care products, to consoles such as PS4, Nintendo and Xbox, we hope there is something for everyone.'

E-commerce giant Amazon has marked its first Black Friday shopping event since its Australian launch with thousands of products heavily discounted

Social media reaction to the sales were mixed with not all Australians thrilled about the growth of the American tradition

Most Black Friday sales for Australian retailers continue into the weekend.

'I love that most shops in Sydney are having 'Black Friday' sales. Gotta love Thanksgiving!' one excited shopper wrote on Twitter.

But not all Australians are thrilled about the growth of the American tradition.

'Okay so why is this American bs Black Friday infiltrating Sydney. Like damn I just wanted to buy some pants but y'all made me line up for like 30 minutes just to try them. This capitalist nonsense ain't IT,' tweeted a frustrated customer.

====== 2668 ========

HE'S A WORKING CLASS MAN! EX-PM TONY ABBOTT JOINS FIREFIGHTERS BATTLING OUT-OF-CONTROL BLAZES

Former Prime Minister Tony Abbott has joined convoys of firefighters battling an out-of-control blaze threatening homes in a rural area two hours north of Sydney.

He was one of more than 180 firefighters working to fight the fires burning at Salt Ash, 36km north of Newcastle.

Mr Abbott donned a hard-hat and appeared dusty and dirty but in high spirits as he spoke on the phone and with a fellow firefighter.

Windy conditions have made the blaze difficult to contain, with gusts reaching 90km/h in the region.

Former Prime Minister Tony Abbott has joined convoys of firefighters battling an out-of-control blazes just outside of Sydney

He was one of more than 180 firefighters working to fight the fires burning at Salt Ash, 36km north of Newcastle

Sydney will have a very high fire danger and an air quality forecast alert has been issued due to poor conditions

Firefighters are stationed in every direction attempting to get the flames under control.

Residents in the area have been asked to seek shelter and parts of Nelson Bay Road have been closed in both directions.

The NSW Rural Fire Service issued an emergency warning due to the bushfire burning at Salt Ash in the Hunter region, which is moving towards homes.

More than 1300 hectares of land has been scorched by the blaze, which has also spread across Pacific Dunes and Campvale.

Mr Abbott donned a hard-hat and appeared dusty and dirty but in high spirits as he spoke on the phone and with a fellow firefighter

The NSW Rural Fire Service issued an emergency warning due to the bushfire burning at Salt Ash in the Hunter region, which is moving towards homes

Hot and windy conditions have stirred up bushfires which have forced an emergency response and almost destroyed a hospital

A bush fire burning near Newcastle, north of Sydney, has increased in strength overnight and residents living close by have been urged to seek shelter

