Wild camping

If organising all your gear is the mundane stuff of life with a California, the excitement lies in taking it on adventures.

In reality for most owners, the California will be a camper mostly slept in on a campsite, but that’s not the way VW sells it in the adverts, with artful shots of vans out in the wild.

Relax: Simon Lambert sits down to dinner in the French countryside on an evening out with the California

We decided that at least one night of wild camping was in order and chose southern Burgundy as our destination - the plan being to find a secluded spot for the evening.

There was just one small problem, where we came off the autoroute at Beaune was serious wine country.

The land around villages such as Pommard, Volnay and Meursalt is not accessible grassy fields or woodland you can tuck your campervan away in for the night, this is a landscape of meticulously maintained vineyards that produce bottles that start at €40 a pop.

The sun was dropping lower, the children were getting hungrier and mum and dad’s conversation more fractious, as we scanned for any likely looking spot to make our home for the night.

Doubt had set in and in my wife’s mind the prospective excitement of free camping had turned to the disappointment of a restless night sleeping in a layby.

Eventually, we picked our way up a steep road, through a hillside village called Orches, and found a more promising looking location. There was farmland on one side and some fields and open parcels of grassland on the other.

We pulled into a bigger patch of open land and I jumped out of the van to check it out. I ducked through some bushes and was presented with a magnificent sight.

We were on a plateau above a curve of cliffs, with a panoramic view over wine country at sunset.

Furthermore, the grassy area stretched further to a patch of land hidden from the road by some bushes.

Our luck was in, we’d found the perfect spot for wild camping.

Slide away: The grassy area used for parking for the walking paths at the cliffs offered a handy spot to tuck the campervan into

Into the great wide open: The Falaises de Saint Romain offered a spectacular view out over Burgundy's wine country and a perfect spot for wild camping

Country house: The French are fairly relaxed when it comes to campervans parking up for the night, as long they do so in a way that will not trouble people. But you must stick to the golden rules of wild camping: arrive late, leave early and leave no trace

Suffice it to say, that evening was one of the highlights of our time with the California.

Never has homemade spaghetti carbonara and a few glasses of red wine tasted so good - and a walk at dusk along the cliffs was followed by sitting out under the stars, including a few shooting ones.

It was definitely better than a night in a layby.

We slept soundly and the view when the sun rose the next morning was even more spectacular.

Driving the legendary Route Napoleon… in a van

Later that week, after a three night break from sleeping in the van in an Airbnb near Lake Annecy, we hit the road once more – headed for France’s mini version of the Grand Canyon, the Gorge du Verdon, in the mountains of Provence.

This gave a chance to drive one of Europe’s most famous roads, the Route Napoleon, albeit not in the type of car that you’d dream of doing it.

So-called because it follows the route taken by Napoleon in 1815 on his return from Elba, this winds its way through hills and mountains, from Cannes to the Southern Alps city of Grenoble.

Heading south, the most spectacular section runs from Digne to Castellane, our destination that day, and from there on to the Provence hill town of Grasse.

The narrow Route Napoleon clings to the mountainside, twisting and turning through stunning scenery, and as you come over the pass above Castellane you drive straight through a dramatic rock arch.

I tip my hat to the California, because while it might be a 4.9 metre long, 2.2 metre wide, three ton van, it was seriously good fun on a great road.

Running down a dream: It's a long way from a sportscar but the VW California proved to a surprisingly good fun to drive on the famous Route Napoleon

Campsite life

After the joy of an almost empty summer’s evening on the Route Napoleon, we arrived at our campsite on the Verdon river, near Castellane. Here we’d spend the next three days and car would become house again.

Arriving at dusk on a day when it had rained heavily until mid-afternoon, the advantage of a campervan over a tent was highlighted once more.

There would be no crouching and clambering about in the fading light, trying to get a tent up with a distinct damp chill in the air.

Nor would we need to be digging a trench around our accommodation, as our neighbours under canvas had.

Arriving at dusk on a day when it had rained heavily until mid-afternoon, the advantage of a camper van over a tent was highlighted once more

We simply, pulled onto our pitch, got the van level, popped the roof up, plugged ourselves into the electricity point, switched on the lights, pulled out the awning, got the chairs and table out, and started cooking dinner – an altogether easier experience.

Obviously, the reverse is somewhat true when it comes to going out for the day - you must pack up your home before you can drive off. However, if the weather is relatively kind you can leave some stuff out behind.

The rest of that week was van life at its best. Days spent exploring around the Gorge du Verdon, including a canoeing trip up the canyon down by the huge Lac de Sainte Croix.

Evenings spent sat out eating dinner and enjoying good wine under the incredible stars and bright moon light of the crystal clear sky, soundtracked by the river rapids 20 metres away.

A lesson was learned too. It can get chilly in the van overnight, even in Provence in mid-August. We were still about 650 metres above sea level and the temperature dropped at night. Downstairs in the van is relatively warm, but upstairs the girls got cold in the tented roof and needed bundling up in extra clothes and bedding.

The California does have a nifty parking heater that can be run separate to the engine and main electrics. Unfortunately, we were late to the party in learning to use this and had we got a better hang of it we could have staved off the late night and early morning chill better.

A brief history of VW campervans Park life: The VW camper was made popular by the classic conversions from the 1950s through to the end of the 1970s, such as the T2 pictured here The Volkswagen van was launched in 1950 and given the factory name Type 2, following on from VW's first car, the Beetle, or Type 1. The German car maker's first van was the split-screen model made until 1967 and dubbed the T1. Just a year after it went on sale camper conversions were launched by Westfalia, which VW developed an official relationship with. The T1 was followed by the uprated second generation bay window vans, known as the T2, made until 1979 (although continued in Brazil until 2013). The onset of the eighties ushered in the angular lines of the T3 van (also known as T25) made between 1979 and 1990. Family affair: The California name for the VW campers is now 30 years old, stretching back to the T3 vans of the late 1980s The California name began to be used for Westfalia campervan conversions in 1988, and in 1990 VW's more modern T4 was launched and made until 2003. In 2001, Westfalia was bought out by VW rival DaimlerChrysler, so Volkswagen decided to make campervans in-house. The T5 van was launched in 2003 and today's T6 vans arrived in 2015. An all-electric concept van design called the I.D Buzz was revealed by VW last year, showing what could be the base for the campervans of the future. Electric avenue: A concept design for the VW van of the future, the I.D Buzz

A week as a family runabout and the final run home

After three nights in the Gorge du Verdon, our main camping stretch of the holiday was done.

On the final morning, we packed up and then drove another chunk of the Route Napoleon, through the hills of Provence towards Grasse, before heading off to the coast near Le Lavandou, between Marseille and St Tropez. Here we would stay in a villa with my wife’s sister and her family for a week.

For those seven days, the California reverted to a family runabout, doing trips to the beach, the shops and into town. It manages that more than capably.

Yes, you are driving something larger than most, but it’s not so big as to have trouble getting around or parking, and the ability to sling lots of stuff in the back (including the kids through that big sliding door) is definitely handy.

A nice extra touch of using a campervan as your car is having a fridge in the back to keep the shopping and drinks chilled.

All night long: The final evening in the VW California called for another spot of wild camping, as bad traffic turned an eight hour drive into a 12 hour journey. As we weren't going to reach our campsite destination, we left the autoroute and found a quiet spot off a country road

At the end of that week, it was time for a blast back from the Med to the Channel and onto London in a day-and-a-half, with one final night’s camping. This was a far less interesting drive than our route down, but still allowed for a last bit of adventure.

Dreadful traffic on the Autoroute du Soleil out of the South of France meant that an eight hour journey took more than twelve hours and our plan of getting to a campsite by dinner time was scuppered.

Instead, we tapped into the van’s potential for changing plans once more and stopped for dinner en route, before driving another three hours and pulling off the motorway to find a place to park up and sleep for the night.

This time it was a field farm track just off a rural road. Less spectacular than our other night’s wild camping, but pleasant nonetheless when we woke to early morning sunshine in the central French countryside and not a soul around.

From there it was four hours to Calais, a ferry back to Dover, and the trudge back to London. It’s a mark of a good car that you’ll miss it; and we were sad to have slept our last night in the California, to have done our last stint of roaming about in it, and to have to give it back.

You can see why 30 years into the California’s life and almost 70 years into the VW campervan’s history, the love for them is still going strong.

The Cars & motoring verdict on the VW California

Misty mountain hop: If you use the California for regular adventure, then you’d probably be more than happy to put up with the inconvenience over a standard family car

If you haven’t worked out that I rated the VW California yet, then you skipped the review above. A fortnight-and-half spent on an adventure in one is a lot of fun.

But what if you had to live with it rather than just have a holiday romance, would the VW California be a good buy and could it cut it as a family car?

The first part of that question depends on the owner. Buying a California would mean making a commitment to splashing out and making sure that you made the most of it.

To justify running a hefty van over a family car, you would need to ensure that you were heading out camping on regular occasion and that you want to get into van life sufficiently to justify not simply buying a perfectly good tent.

If you do that, then you’ll probably love the California.

For a couple, it would be perfect, as you can divide living and sleeping space. For a family of four it’s great, but once children get bigger squeezing you all in will get trickier - and when they hit secondary school age youngsters may not want to be sharing a campervan bed.

To justify running a hefty van over a family car, you would need to ensure that you were heading out camping on regular occasion

That said, buy a tent to go with it and your problem is solved.

The California could cut it in normal family life with a few sacrifices.

It will be harder to park, a bit more cumbersome to get around, a little less smooth than a normal car and with the Ocean you don’t have three seats in the back.

There is one issue that bothers British owners though, the California is a straight left to right-hand drive swap, so the rear sliding door is on the driver’s side in the UK.

That means kids are likely to have to be let out road rather than kerbside.

You’ll also spend more on fuel and running costs than with an estate, SUV or saloon.

We averaged 28.8mpg over 2,100 miles but that involved swift autoroute driving and some mountain roads. In everyday life you’d be doing better than that but you’d have to be the judge of whether you’d get the claimed 38.7mpg on the combined cycle.

However, if you use the California for regular adventure, then you’d probably be more than happy to put up with lower fuel economy and some mild practical inconvenience over a standard car.

VW California Ocean VW California Ocean Edition, 2.0 TDI Price: £64,385 on the road Engine: 2.0 litre turbodiesel Power: 204PS at 4,000 rpm Gearbox: 7-speed DSG automatic Front wheel drive Top speed: 121mph 0 to 62mph: 11.0 seconds CO2: 190g/km Gross vehicle weight: 3,080kg Length: 4,904mm | Width: 2,297mm Height: 1,990mm Fuel consumption (mpg): 32.5 urban | 44.1 extra-urban | 38.7 combined

Which brings us to the small matter of the price.

The VW California is expensive. Prices start at £43,000 for the Beach, but if you want the Ocean’s cooker, fridge, sink etc, you need to pay at least £53,000.

Add an automatic gearbox and bigger diesel engine and the price tag rises.

There are two things to note, however.

The VW California holds its value spectacularly well. Figures from the experts at Cap HPI suggest that over its first year on the road an automatic 2.0 TDI Beach version would lose just 3 per cent of its value and over three years it would be worth 83 per cent of the original cost.

Other versions are likely to perform similarly price wise and a well-looked after California will always be in hot demand second hand.

Secondly, you do get a lot for your money. It’s fairly easy to get the price of premium family cars up to the £50,000 mark nowadays. Buy a Jaguar F-Pace, Volvo XC60, or Audi A6 Avant, go up the engine range and choose a few options and you’ll hit the cost of a California easily.

Arguably, a campervan that sleeps four and quite literally throws in a kitchen sink (along with a cooker, fridge, cupboards and more) represents comparable value even if it is a little less luxurious.

It's a testament to the worth people see in their versatility and the VW campervan's enduring appeal that you still see so many vans well into their third or fourth decade of life on the road.

Will the 2018 VW California attract the same love in four decades’ time that my father-in-law’s classic T2 invites today? Maybe it will.

And will VW still be making some version of the campervan in the 2050s? It’ll probably be electric, but I hope so.

====== 541 ========

BREXIT DEAL'S POTENTIAL IMPACT ON BRITAIN'S PROPERTY MARKET EXPLAINED

Theresa May and EU officials are scrambling to cobble together a finalised Brexit deal in time for Sunday's summit of European leaders.

The 585-page draft Brexit agreement contains a number of thorny points yet to be firmed up, including the transition period, the Irish border question and Britain's future access to global financial markets.

An issue less discussed in the last few days is what impact each Brexit scenario, and even a Conservative party leadership contest, could have on the country's housing market.

Turbulence: Theresa May and EU officials are scrambling to cobble together a finalised Brexit deal in time for Sunday's summit of European leaders

Here, Paul Smith, chief executive of estate agency Haart, discusses what a good deal, no deal, Conservative party leadership challenge and an extended transition period for Brexit could mean for homeowners, sellers and buyers across the country.

In Mr Smtih's view, an extended transition period poses the greatest threat.

Scenario 1: Leave the EU with a good deal

Haart's Mr Smith said: 'Although the level of activity our branches are experiencing on the ground continues to defy Brexit doom-mongers’ expectations, we could expect a super-charged property market in 2019 if a positive Brexit deal is agreed.

'In October, the number of people registering to buy a home was up 37% on the year, however many sellers are holding off as they wait for greater clarity from the Government.

Trouble ahead: In Mr Smtih's mind, an extended transition period poses the greatest threat to the UK's property market

'With a strong deal in place, confidence would fuel the market upwards, turning instructions into transactions. We would expect an uplift in transactions of 10% to take place in the second half of 2019, with an increase in buyer demand leading to slight price rises thereafter.'

Even in the event of a hard Brexit, Mr Smith said it would be 'very unlikely' that house prices would fall as sharply as they did during the credit crunch.

Scenario 2: Leave the EU with no deal

Mr Smith thinks a no deal Brexit would lead to a 'short term blow' for the country's property market.

He added: 'The most likely impact would be a slower market, with fewer transactions taking place as both buyers and sellers hit the brakes on their plans.

Capital issues: Property prices in London fell by 0.3 per cent in the last year, the ONS said

'However, I don’t foresee a large-scale property market crash and instead anticipate that in this scenario house prices are unlikely to fall by more than 5% due to a shortage of homes on the market propping up overall prices.

'It is also extremely likely that in the event of the UK leaving the EU without a deal, there will be a fiscal stimulus in the form of a stamp duty holiday, and a drop in the Bank of England base rate to support borrowers.'

Scenario 3: Theresa May's leadership is challenged

It has been a tumultuous few weeks for Theresa May, and while it remains unclear whether the 48-letter threshold has been reached to trigger a vote of no confidence, a leadership challenge could, at some point, kick off.

Mr Smith said: 'Political stability is crucial for a thriving housing market – and for this we need a stable government.

No confidence letter: Jacob Rees-Mogg announced that he had sent his letter to the chairman of the 1922 Committee

'If a leadership bid was triggered we would risk creating further uncertainty in the market. In this instance we’d undoubtedly see more homeowners holding off listing their homes, resulting in a drop in transactions of roughly 2% and potentially house price dips. Unsurprisingly, I would expect London to be hit the hardest.'

Earlier this month, figures published by the Office for National Statistics revealed that property prices in London fell by 0.3 per cent in the last year.

Scenario 4: Extended Brexit negotiation period beyond March 2019

While a ‘No Deal’ scenario could be damaging for the property market, Mr Smith thinks an extended period of negotiations to thrash out a final deal could be even more detrimental. The key problem with this scenario is uncertainty.

Mr Smith said: 'Our latest data shows that house prices across England and Wales have fallen by 0.8% on the year, highlighting the adverse effect uncertainty continues to have on the housing market.

'Extending negotiations would only encourage further uncertainty, resulting in a delay among buyers and sellers. Should this continue throughout 2019, we could expect transaction volumes to dip by as much as 20%, further stunting any opportunity of economic prosperity at a time when we need it most.'

====== 542 ========

HOW TO DELIVER A BUSINESS PITCH THAT INVESTORS CAN'T REFUSE

Pitching is often an inescapable part of being a startup founder.

A good one could land you the backing of an investor who can help get your business off the ground, while a bad one is likely to leave you with your tail between your legs, wondering what could have been.

Fans of shows like Dragons' Den will have seen many budding entrepreneurs flounder while pitching their business ideas or rebuked for not knowing much about their company's financials.

Sometimes it helps to take a step back and remind yourself that you are pitching to a person, just like you, and they want to be wowed by your business

While pitching with the knowledge that the nation will be watching how you get on is a uniquely stressful experience that most business owners won't have to endure, doing so to even an audience of one can be equally nerve-wracking.

Sometimes it helps to take a step back and remind yourself that you are pitching to a person, just like you, and they want to be wowed by your business.

With this in mind, we asked someone who is pitched to on a weekly basis, Mark Pearson of London-based early stage venture capital fund Fuel Ventures, to provide some top tips on what to do, and what not to do, when pitching to an investor. Here's what he said.

1. Prepare

This might seem obvious, but you’d be amazed how many entrepreneurs I’ve had meetings with who quite clearly spent only a few hours on their pitch presentation.

I’m not saying that you should slave away for weeks, but it should be well put together and informative.

Essentially you need to pre-empt what questions the investors will have and be able to answer them confidently. Investors will want to test your knowledge of your industry and business.

If you can’t answer questions like how much money your market generates, how you plan to scale your business and how much disposable income your key audience has, then investors will have no confidence in your abilities as a business founder.

There’s plenty of entrepreneurs around now, if you can’t demonstrate your value then there’s always someone who will.

Mark Pearson of Fuel Ventures warns against trying to pull the wool over investors' eyes or inflate business figures

2. Breathe

Pitch meetings can be stressful, and I completely understand why entrepreneurs get nervous in them, but running a business is stressful, and you need to demonstrate that you can handle the pressure.

My best advice is to remember to breathe. Slow, deep breaths. Before the meeting and during if needed. Investors are not inhumane monsters, if you’re panicking, it will be visible. We have the patience and time to let you take a minute to compose yourself and then continue with the meeting.

Also, people have a habit of speaking really quickly when they’re nervous. I’ve had to ask a few entrepreneurs to slow their speaking down before, which can fluster them even more. So, to avoid this vicious cycle of panic, take your time and breathe, it’s that simple.

3. Communicate

Again, I’m going to point out that investors aren’t inhumane monsters, we like to talk and essentially a pitch meeting is about getting to know an entrepreneur and their business.

Be personable and friendly, which I know can be difficult if you’re nervous, but if an investor is going to invest in you, they need to get to know you on a professional level at least. Allow investors to ask questions during the presentation, or say at the start of the meeting, ‘if you have a question at any point, please feel free to stop me’.

4. Be honest

Business doesn’t run smoothly 99 per cent of the time, investors know that, they’ve most likely been through it themselves, like I have.

Trying to pull the wool over their eyes or inflate numbers is only going to result in being caught out, either in that meeting room or further down the line when that little white lie can have more serious consequences.

If you’re unsure about certain facts or figures to do with your business, just be honest; investors appreciate that there’s a level of uncertainty in what we and you do, as long as you can demonstrate that you’ve put the work in and prepared as much as possible.

5. Be passionate

When you walk into an investor meeting, you’re asking them to put their trust and money into you, which is a lot to ask of a perfect stranger in most cases.

To help sell yourself and your business, the best thing you can do is be passionate. If you’re excited about what you’ve created and built, it’s so much easier for an investor to get onboard.

We want to see your eyes light up and your hands flail when you tell us about your idea and why we should be involved, because behind every great business, is a passionate founder.

Starting your own business is hard, it’s probably one of the most challenging projects someone can pursue nowadays, so without passion driving you forward, the wear and tear of founder life can really grind you down.

It’s one of the main characteristics I look for in an entrepreneur, if I can’t see or feel the passion then I know the business will likely fail.

====== 543 ========

PRUDENT INVESTOR: DEAL OR NO DEAL? PREPARE YOUR PENSION FOR BREXIT

Brexit is beginning to feel like the reality show no one wants to watch as politicians flounce in and out of Downing Street.

If the Government were to collapse and Brexit talks fail, there would be serious implications for investors.

Will we get the soft Brexit Theresa May wants and remain tied closely to the EU? Or will both she and her solution be ejected, throwing the whole process into chaos?

At this crucial stage, I asked four investment experts if there is anything private investors can do to prepare for what may lie ahead.

Uncertain future: Will we get the soft Brexit Theresa May wants and remain tied closely to the EU? Or will both she and her solution be ejected, throwing the whole process into chaos?

All four broadly share a view that, generally, the UK stock market looks cheap and a well-organised Brexit should result in a surge. The consequences of no deal could be very nasty, though.

Ben Yearsley, director of Shore Financial Planning, says: 'I wouldn't bet the ranch either way. A good soft Brexit will lead, in my view, to strengthening currency and a stock market bounce — led by domestically-focused stocks.

'A hard Brexit will lead to a falling currency and stock market.'

For a soft Brexit, several Invesco Perpetual funds, including the Income and High Income funds and the investment trust Perpetual Income & Growth, are well set up.

'The manager has more than 30 per cent in UK domestic value stocks, many of which look cheap,' Mr Yearsley says. 'He also has overseas earners and defensive stocks, however, so it's a decent all-round portfolio.'

But if you expect tears before Brexit, he recommends investors go global 'to take advantage of falling sterling'.

First State Global Listed Infrastructure has only 6 per cent in the UK while Blue Whale Growth holds about 10 per cent UK, he says.

Richard Troue, head of investment analysis at Hargreaves Lansdown, warns: 'To tilt a portfolio significantly in one direction is a big risk. I'd suggest a balanced approach with a slight tilt, depending on your view.

'Brexit aside, the UK is an unloved and undervalued market and I think there's the opportunity to invest now for the long term at a depressed level.' He says Woodford Equity Income 'could benefit if the outlook for the UK improves'.

He adds: 'Neil Woodford thinks the UK economy will continue to grow to the extent that it will end 2018 as one of the world's fastest-growing major economies.

He's invested in companies likely to benefit from this, house builders being a prime example.' Another option is low-cost trackers. Legal & General UK Index provides exposure to the whole market, while the HSBC FTSE 250 Index covers medium-sized companies.

'These tend to be a bit more domestically-focused, so could see a bigger boost in the event of a favourable deal,' Troue says.

If a deal isn't forthcoming, or is thought unfavourable for the UK, then Legal & General International Index Trust is an option.

It follows more than 2,000 companies — more than half of which are based in the U.S., including Apple, Microsoft, Amazon and Facebook, and with a good sprinkling from Europe and the Asia Pacific region.

Jason Hollands of financial planner Tilney says: 'It is important not to confuse the UK stock market with the domestic economy.

'The London Stock Exchange is very international and around 75 per cent of the earnings of FTSE 100 companies is made outside of the UK, primarily in U.S. dollars.'

Medium-sized and smaller companies, such as house builders and property firms, as well as domestically-focused banks like Lloyds (which was share hammered last week) could all benefit from a good deal.

Funds which have significant exposure to medium and smaller firms include AXA Framlington UK Mid Cap and JO Hambro UK Dynamic, Mr Hollands says.

He adds that 'in the event of a collapse of the Brexit process and another steep slide in sterling, big FTSE 100 companies would prove a relative haven'.

He suggests trackers such as Fidelity Index UK as a low cost option. Or Evenlode Income, holding a great deal of large and medium-sized companies that make most earnings worldwide, is a managed alternative.

Adrian Lowcock of Willis Owen says you should avoid big bets and 'focus on long-term goals, invest in good quality companies because these can navigate any scenario better than badly-managed businesses'.

He suggests diversifying across both UK and global markets.

Funds for a soft Brexit include Merian UK Alpha, where the manager buys unloved stocks and waits for the market to change its view. He also mentioned Woodford Equity Income.

For a hard Brexit, he suggests FundSmith Equity as 'one of the strongest options for investors seeking exposure to high-quality global equities.'

Prepare for a rough ride. I'm hedging my bets with plenty in worldwide funds, such as Lindsell Train Global Equity and Newton Global Income, but also holding onto UK-based ones such as HSBC 250 tracker and JO Hambro UK Equity Income even though these stocks are so unloved.

t.hazell@dailymail.co.uk

====== 544 ========

HOW DO I GET MY HOME TO SELL AMID BREXIT UNCERTAINTY?

My home has been sat on the market for several months and I want to give it a push to get it sold.

I am at a bit of a loss as to what to do – how much should I declutter, how much should I dress it up, do I need new photos to make it look fresher on Rightmove and other sites - and how do you keep a family home looking good when it's sitting on the market for a few months?

If you are committed to selling you need a strategy to appeal to buyers, says Yopa

MailOnline Property expert Myra Butterworth replies: With Brexit on the horizon and Britain preparing to leave the EU in March next year there is a lot of uncertainty, which is deterring some would-be buyers from making a decision. Many homes have sat on the market for weeks on end with few viewings and no sign of a serious buyer.

The main concern at the moment is whether Parliament will vote through the withdrawal agreement, or whether the UK could be forced into a no-deal Brexit and even a change of government.

Price is usually considered the most important element in selling a home. If you price a property low compared to rivals, then it should sell. But many sellers are reluctant to take too much off the asking price, as they could then fall short of the money they need to move home.

It is also easy for sellers to focus on an initial asking price and feel they are losing money if they do not achieve close to that. A small price cut may feel palatable to someone whose home has been sitting on the market for some time, but a sizeable reduction may not. So what can you do instead?

Tom Waltham, territory owner for the south-east region for online estate agent Yopa, says: In order to sell a property, you need to get three fundamental basics right – price, strategy and presentation.

If your home is not selling, you need to start again from scratch and address the basics.

Presentation is the most important factor. If you can make your property look more attractive, you are more likely to get the price you want.

If your home has been on the market for a while, it may be worth spending a couple of hundred pounds on better photos.

Photography should be to a professional standard but many agents lack the training to take decent photos and are poorly equipped.

You can tell a bad photo as soon as you see one – the bed might not be made, the laundry basket visible in the corner, or the agent has used their mobile phone to take the photos.

Before any new photos are taken, spend some time decluttering but don't be too clinical or your home will lose all personality.

There shouldn't be a need to upgrade furniture as there is a cost element to this.

But a lick of paint is not a bad idea to neutralise a room; for example, if you have a dark purple wall, it is worth painting it white.

If the property is vacant, then dressing it might help encourage a sale as it gives perspective. It is hard to gauge how big a space is when the room is empty.

Keeping a property spotless when it is on the market for a prolonged period of time can be hard work but be realistic.

The most important time to have a tidy property is for the initial photos, which make the first impression.

When someone is viewing a family home, chances are they have a family themselves so will expect a few toys.

These shouldn't be scattered all over the floor but a quick tidy up before a viewing should suffice.

The most important time to have a tidy property is for the initial photos, which make the first impression, says Yopa

Think about how your property is marketed. Some 98 per cent of buyers will find their next property online so how you use portals such as Rightmove and Zoopla, and their pricing bands, is crucial to get maximum exposure.

If your property is on at £499,950, for example, then someone searching for properties priced £500,000 and above won't have seen it.

So increasing the price by £50 will expose you to a new bracket of buyers for the first time.

If your property hasn't sold within 12 to 16 weeks, it may be time to change agent – leave it any longer and the property is in danger of going stale.

If you are having a lot of viewings and no offers it is not necessarily the agent's fault but if nobody is coming through the door, this should ring alarm bells.

If the agent overvalued the property in order to win your business in the first place, or their marketing material is not very good, it might be better to change agent rather than reduce the price and stick with the same agent.

It is better to have a recently (re)launched property with a new agent rather than sticking a reduced tag on a property.

It is not always the case that the price has to be reduced anyway – we have taken on property at the same price but with a different approach and managed to sell it.

====== 545 ========

ASK TONY: I PAID TWICE OVER FOR INSURANCE AND WAS LEFT £900 OUT OF POCKET

I have a dispute with car insurance company Quotemehappy.com.

It continued to take monthly premiums long after I had cancelled the insurance and obtained cover elsewhere.

I tried to contact the firm via a number I got from the internet, but the call was answered by a person from Aviva who told me Quotemehappy was nothing to do with them, even though it is the parent company.

It ignores emails, and I only got a response when I cancelled the direct debit.

J. K., Salford.

One reader was left extremely unhappy after accepting a quote through car insurance company Quotemehappy.com

Your problem comes down to one core issue. When you took out the policy with Quotemehappy.com in 2013, you chose to pay monthly.

This was set up on an auto-renewal basis, which would have been made clear at the point of purchase, says Aviva.

At renewal time each year, you should have received an invitation directly to the email address that you provided at that time. These renewal notices made it clear that unless you cancelled, your policy would be renewed.

But you changed your email from TalkTalk to Gmail and didn't tell them.

In the meantime, you took out new insurance with Hastings Direct in November 2014, but didn't know you had two policies until your new insurer spotted it and told you in March 2017. You tried emailing, but got no response.

There are two points to make here. The first is that the email — a copy of which you sent to me — is next to useless!

It came from your new email address and you failed to provide a policy number or your home address, so how on earth did you think they could identify you from just your initial and surname?

Then there is the email address: help@quotemehappy.com. Aviva says that this address 'was never used for customers, sent to customers, or featured on the website'. It adds: 'We have double-checked all Mr K's communications and it was never sent to him.'

However, when you phoned Aviva, surely somebody could have escalated your complaint. The good news is Aviva accepts that you had dual insurance throughout this period and has now refunded the full £921.69.

There's a couple of lessons here for all of us. If you are dealing with an organisation by internet, then tell them if you are changing your email address, otherwise they can't contact you.

Secondly, if you're paying monthly for your insurance, then make sure you cancel it when you swap to someone else.

You have YOUR say Every week Money Mail receives hundreds of your letters and emails about our stories. Here are some from our article about motorists being left stranded for up to 12 hours by the AA and RAC. My problem was that I couldn’t get through to the RAC. My annual fee is £129.99, and in 29 years I have called them four times. When I broke down recently, I sat listening to recorded messages on loop for 35 minutes. I felt helpless. V. L., London. I consider the AA to be a remarkable institution. When I had a flat battery, I was told an engineer would be there within 35 minutes. He beat that and made it in 35 seconds. Apparently, he had been in the same car park as me at the time. E. G., Cambs. The RAC kept putting my breakdown premium up year after year. On the two occasions that I needed them during my eight years of membership, they were less than useless and extremely unhelpful. I’ve now moved to Green Flag. A. H., Stockport. I can’t fault the AA. I’ve had to call them twice in 12 months — the joys of having a clapped-out 2005 Ford Focus. I recognised one of the guys who came to help me as a former Britain’s Got Talent contestant. He was a really nice chap. A. K., Wolverhampton. We have smartphones these days. We don’t need the AA or RAC. You can find a million local mechanics and tow trucks without leaving your car. Anyone still paying these big companies for cover each month needs their head examined. B. Y., London. Some of these roadside assistance mechanics are given unrealistic performance targets. It means if they don’t find the fault in about 30 seconds of examining the vehicle, they just pass the job onto the vehicle recovery crew. This causes massive backlogs. M. G., Staffordshire.

I am a landlord. The tenant who has just vacated my property left behind some Virgin Media equipment including a wi-fi box and cabling that protrudes from the ground in a huge loop right across the front door.

Neither Virgin nor the tenant sought my permission to install this equipment.

I rang Virgin to ask for the cable to be removed and what I should do with the equipment.

I was told because I was not 'our customer', and due to data protection issues, it couldn't take notice of my request. I asked to speak to a supervisor, but again data protection prevented this.

M.G., Folkestone.

There are times when data protection is code for 'can't be bothered'. And this is one.

Staff may not have been able to discuss the details of the account with you, but this is your property, so of course someone should have been able to talk about the equipment.

If the person you spoke to did not feel able to handle it, they should have allowed you to speak to a supervisor.

Virgin has apologised that the cables were left exposed, and an engineer has now removed them.

The account was in the tenant's name so will not have an impact on you.

The tenant is unlikely to have needed your permission to have cable TV installed unless you had a term preventing this in the tenancy. If there was damage to your property, this was, no doubt, covered by the deposit.

You also asked about getting rid of the equipment.

Well, you followed the correct practice by putting Virgin on notice that if they did not arrange collection by a specific date, then you would dispose of it. In fact, Virgin does not want the equipment back, so you can do so.

***

I have written to Prudential about an insurance policy passed to me by my mother, who is now deceased. It was taken out when I was nine and I'm now 73. It says it was payable at the end of 56 years.

Prudential has written to me saying that it has no monetary value, but why is this?

P. C., Hertfordshire.

You have an old-style industrial policy which was probably sold by an insurance salesman who visited your parents' house.

People commonly bought these so they'd be able to provide a decent funeral if their children died young or to provide something for the children if they survived.

My mum bought one for each of her children with the idea that it would buy us a suit for our first job at the age of 16 (though I wanted jeans for the sixth form).

It turns out that your policy was surrendered in December 1981 with £27.73 being paid. Prudential has now written to you with full details.

====== 546 ========

THE PROOF THE NORTH/SOUTH HOUSE PRICE INFLATION DIVIDE IS OVER

A distinct North / South divide emerged in the UK property market after the financial crisis slump, with a line between Bristol and the Wash, below which house prices were rising sharply in the South but above which gains were minimal in the Midlands and the North.

Now that has been reversed, with London and the home counties suffering, while the new property hotspots are northern cities, such as Manchester, Liverpool and Leeds, and the West and East Midlands.

In this special report into what's happening in Britain's property market we take a look at what's up and what's down.

Property prices in the East and West Midlands are growing by 6 per cent a year, outstripping all other parts of the country, says the Office for National Statistics

Midlands market town Melton Mowbray knows that the way to Britons' hearts is through their stomachs. Famous for its pork pies (made from hand-raised pigs) and Stilton, it proudly refers to itself as the Rural Capital Of Food.

Last weekend, it hosted ChocFest, a festival attended by the UK's top chocolatiers.

Despite the town's popularity, it is, nonetheless, surprising that property prices are rising faster here than almost anywhere else in the country.

Over the past 12 months, prices in this quiet rural community have soared by 12.8 per cent — more than triple the UK average of 3.5 per cent.

Close to the cities of Leicester and Nottingham, and mainline railway stations such as Grantham, it is now popular with professionals.

Its good-value, spacious properties, beautiful countryside and excellent schools make it perfect for families too, pushing up prices in an area of low supply.

It is a trend reflected all over the East and West Midlands. Property prices here are growing by 6 per cent a year, outstripping all other parts of the country, says the Office for National Statistics.

By contrast, prices are tumbling by 0.3 per cent in London. And in the previously booming regions of the South-East and East, they are rising by just 1.7 per cent and 2 per cent respectively.

The property price explosion in London and the Home Counties in recent years seems finally to be rippling out to other parts of the country.

Midlands towns storming ahead

Five of the top ten local authority areas in the country for house price rises are now in the Midlands, including East Staffordshire and Newcastle-under-Lyme, also Staffordshire, Daventry in Northamptonshire and Broxtowe, Nottinghamshire.

This trend is set to continue, according to experts.

Estate agent Savills predicts prices will rise by another 3 per cent in the Midlands next year compared to just 1.5 per cent across the UK.

In the summer, Stratford-upon-Avon, Warwickshire, was the country's top town for house price growth.

Other parts of the Midlands which have seen double-digit growth in 2018 include Harborough and Blaby, both in Leicestershire, Rugby in Warwickshire, Wellingborough and Kettering in Northamptonshire and Rushcliffe in Nottinghamshire.

The Midlands' economy has been boosted by big firms opening warehouses and offices in the region.

HSBC bank, for example, moved its UK head office to Birmingham, while food and drink firm Nestlé has announced it will build a new £55 million distribution centre in Leicestershire.

HS2, a high-speed railway which will connect London, Birmingham, the East Midlands, Leeds and Manchester, has also boosted prices.

It is set to open between 2026 and 2033, but its impact is already being felt in the property market.

HS2 will cut the journey time between Birmingham and London to just 45 minutes. This should make it easier for workers to commute to the capital, which, in turn, should encourage more businesses to open new offices in the Midlands.

Figures show there has already been an exodus of workers from London to the region in search of more affordable housing.

Most simply find new jobs when they move. But experts say faster broadband and a rise in flexible working has allowed many to keep their London jobs and work from home.

Improved rail and road links mean some workers travel hundreds of miles each day to the capital and back from their Midlands homes.

Even without HS2, it already takes only about an hour to get to many Midlands towns from London by train.

London Euston to Coventry, for example, takes just 59 minutes, while London St Pancras to Wellingborough, Northamptonshire, takes 47 minutes and London King's Cross to Grantham, Lincolnshire, is only one hour and eight minutes.

Does an 18 year house price cycle predict a rise? House prices move in an 18 year cycle. That is the theory of Fred Harrison, who used his cycle to forecast the 2008 slump after the financial crisis. If his theory holds, the housing market will have a short wobble this year and next, followed by a final sharp rise in prices to 2025. Does that stand up to scrutiny? Simon Lambert and Georgie Frost discuss the 28 year property cycle on this excerpt from the This is Money podcast. Press play above or listen (and please subscribe if you like the podcast) at Apple Podcasts, Acast, Spotify and Audioboom or visit our This is Money Podcast page.

Buyers fleeing the capital

Since 2010, the proportion of Londoners moving to the Midlands or Northern England has tripled.

A Hamptons International study found that in the first half of 2018, Londoners bought over 30,000 homes outside the capital, 16 per cent more than last year. Today, one in five London leavers move to the North or Midlands, up from one in 17 a decade ago.

In Melton Mowbray, Charlene Rushton, branch manager at estate agent Connells, says: 'There has definitely been an increase in demand.

'Stock is very low across all agents in the area. First-time buyer properties are gone within a week of going on the market.

'About 75 per cent of our sales have been to people moving into the area — some from the South as they can get far more for their money here. Some buyers are living here and commuting to London.

'We even had a family sending their children on the train to school in the South while they tried to get them settled into a new one here.'

On track: HS2, a high-speed railway which will connect London, Birmingham, the East Midlands, Leeds and Manchester, has also boosted prices

Aneisha Beveridge, Hamptons International head of research, says: 'The Midlands has been lagging behind average price rises in England and Wales and only began out-performing them in 2017.

I believe that after several years of rising prices in neighbouring counties, the Midlands now looks good value.

'People working in London looking to buy a first home are leap-frogging the Home Counties to find a family-sized house they can afford.

Stamp duty is so expensive that people do not want to move, and then move again a few years later.'

It took house prices in the Midlands three years longer to recover from the financial crisis than London.

Prices in the East Midlands and West Midlands peaked in October 2007 at £158,000 and £165,000 respectively before falling. They then failed to exceed pre-crisis levels until summer 2015.

By comparison, London peaked in January 2008 at £298,896 before crashing, and had bounced back by April 2012.

The northern cities on the rise Regional house price statistics show the Midlands as where house prices are rising fastest, but reports that drill down into Britain's major cities show the northern powerhouses are also on the up. The most recent Hometrack UK cities index showed property prices falling in 63 per cent of London postcodes and dipping overall by 0.4 per cent in the capital. In contrast, prices in major northern cities are on the rise, Liverpool was up 6.9 per cent, Manchester up 6.2 per cent, Sheffield up 5.8 per cent, and Leeds up 4.3 per cent. Interspersed with them, were Midlands and Scottish hotspots, including Birmingham, Leicester, Glasgow, Nottingham and Edinburgh. Aberdeen propped up the table, due to the hit its oil industry property market has taken in recent years, while Cambridge, Bristol and Southampton also saw slow growth.

Price rises are rippling out

A typical property in the East Midlands is now £195,000, or £200,000 in the West Midlands compared to £482,000 in London.

For the average first-time buyer struggling to pull together a 10 per cent deposit, it means they would only have to save £20,000 for a house in the East Midlands compared to £48,200 in London.

However, the region's central location means it is still expensive compared to, say, the North-East, where a typical property costs £132,000.

The average UK property is now £233,000.

Lee Wainwright, UK chief of Purplebricks says: 'There is generally a feeling of confidence in the West and East Midlands at the moment.

'In London, prices are waiting to understand the impact of Brexit. There is a nervousness around the London market which is not present in the Midlands.'

Prices are also booming in Scotland and Wales, where they rose 5.8 per cent in both countries this year. Northern Ireland also saw a rise of 4.8 per cent, while the South-West is rising year-on-year by 4.3 per cent.

The North-East is finally recovering from the financial crisis with a 3.5 per cent annual rise, followed by the North-West at 3.3 per cent.

Yorkshire and the Humber lags behind the 3.5 per cent national average at 2.6 per cent, followed by the South-East. Only London properties are now, on average, losing money.

Footballer Jamie Vardy's former home in Melton Mowbray, for was put up for sale last year at £1.25m

Simon Rubinsohn, chief economist at the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, says: 'London tends to be the lead in the property cycle and has been very buoyant over the past few years as the economy has done well.

'What we have seen over the last year is that this is spreading out. Prices are rising elsewhere in the country instead.

'The Midlands and the North-West are doing well, partly because the major cities in these regions are undergoing regeneration and money is being invested in housing and infrastructure.

'Some of the big management consultancy firms are opening big offices in these areas and saying to staff you can have a very good career away from London and, perhaps, a higher standard of living.'

Steve Guest, from Aldridge, Walsall, who runs property investment firm Limestone Property Investments, says London investors are helping to push up prices in the West Midlands.

'I've noticed that there are a lot of people undertaking viewings in Birmingham on behalf of London investors,' says Steve.

'And these investors often offer higher prices, overvaluing the property. It means a home worth £140,000 two years ago may be worth £160,000 now.

'I go to a lot of property network events and there's always a lot of positive talk about HS2 and business investment.'

Families looking further afield

Estate agent Savills says that, as housing affordability in London and the South has become more stretched, households have had to cast their eyes further afield to the Midlands where they can get more house for their money.

A spokeswoman says: 'We are predicting the Midlands will see the fastest house price growth in 2019.

'However, we also expect that ripple effect to keep spreading further. In 2020, we expect the North-West to take over as the region with fastest house price growth.'

Country towns in Leicestershire, Nottinghamshire, Staffordshire, Northamptonshire and Warwickshire — many of which boast beautiful scenery — are in high demand.

This is particularly the case for towns with direct train links to Birmingham, Leicester, and further afield such as Manchester, Leeds and London.

In the towns of Oadby and Wigston, Leicestershire, prices are rising by 5.1 per cent compared to the previous 12 months. They were soaring by double this — 10.2 per cent — in the spring.

Father-of-three Karl Inchley, 53, bought a four-bedroom semi-detached home in Wigston for £174,000 in 2007. But he has just sold the property for £250,000 — £76,000 more than he paid for it 11 years ago.

Considering the financial crisis hit shortly after he bought the house, he is thrilled with how prices have bounced back in the area.

Karl, who has three grown-up children and is currently deciding where to buy next, says: 'It is great news because it means if I really wanted to, I could buy somewhere small and be mortgage-free.

'Wigston has got everything you'd need for families like mine. There are lots of good schools in the town and you're just on the edge of Leicester city centre. I can see why prices have gone up.'

Twenty miles away, in Melton Mowbray, its chocolate-coated pork pies and Scotch eggs are said to have gone down very well at last weekend's food festival — which can surely only add to its popularity among the nation's house-hunters.

Our home rose £65k in two years Will Charlton and Sami Couper with children Angus, two, and Dottie, six Civil servant Will Charlton, 35, has benefited hugely from rapidly rising house prices in Nottinghamshir He bought a four-bedroom Victorian semi in Beeston, Nottingham, two years ago for £260,000, which has since been valued at £325,000. Prices in his local authority area of Broxtowe have risen by 9.5 per cent in the past year alone, partly due to improved tram and train links from Beeston — only 3.5 miles from Nottingham city centre. Will, who lives with Sami Couper, a homewares designer, and their children Dottie, six, and Angus, one, says: 'I went to university in London, but almost all of my friends have now moved out, as they were searching for cheaper properties. 'A friend sold a one-bedroom flat in Hackney, East London, and bought a four-bed house in Birmingham and still had cash left over. 'Beeston has everything — independent shops and restaurants, four supermarkets, good-value houses and transport links to London and Birmingham. 'Hardly any Victorian houses like ours come on to the market, and as demand is high, it is pushing up the prices here quickly.'

l.eccles@dailymail.co.uk

====== 547 ========

SMARTEST WAYS TO INVEST OR SAVE FOR YOUR CHILD OR GRANDCHILD

Planning ahead: Jim Wilkinson with granddaughter Annabel

When Jim Wilkinson's daughter, Sarah, was born 35 years ago, he opened a Post Office savings account in her name and popped in £100.

It meant that when friends or relatives sent cash gifts on her birthday or at Christmas, he and his wife, Sally, could put the money away for her future.

By the time she turned 21, this nest egg had grown to £5,000. Sarah then continued adding to it over the next eight years, until she had enough for a house deposit.

Last month, Sarah, 35, gave birth to Annabel. Now, Jim, 71, wants to do the same for his new granddaughter, so she can put the cash towards university or a house, just like her mum did.

The retired insurance underwriter says: 'I was brought up to believe that if you want something, you need to save for it, and I remember being delighted when I earned sixpence in interest on £1 savings at the end of a year.'

Regularly putting aside even a small amount for a child could make a real difference when they are older.

For example, if you gifted £100 each year in an account paying 3.5 per cent, your child would have more than £2,500 by the age of 18.

If you could stretch to £50 a month, they would have nearly £15,000, according to advice site Savings Champion.

For parents and grandparents looking to follow Jim's lead by ditching the Black Friday sales in favour of giving the kids a savings habit this Christmas, here are your options...

Savings habit: Regularly putting aside even a small amount for a child could make a real difference when they are older

PREMIUM BONDS

Grandparents and parents can already buy Premium Bonds for children.

But, in the future aunts, uncles, godparents and even family friends will also be able to gift Premium Bonds in their loved ones' children's names – the date of this change is yet to be announced.

As of next March, anyone will be able to gift Premium Bonds in their loved ones' children's names

Currently, you must buy at least £100 worth of the bonds but, from March, the minimum investment will be just £25.

Premium Bonds give savers the chance to win tax-free prizes every month, ranging from £25 to £1 million.

Every £1 bond number has a 24,500-to-1 chance of winning. The money is 100 per cent backed by the Government.

Any Premium Bond winnings are automatically sent to the child's parent or legal guardian.

For more information, visit nsandi.com or call 08085 007 007.

JUNIOR ISAS

These are tax-free accounts that let you save money for under-18s.

While grandparents can pay money into these accounts, they can be opened only by parents or legal guardians. You can put away up to £4,260 in this tax year.

Children can begin managing the account when they reach 16, however they cannot withdraw anything until they turn 18.

The money can be kept in cash or split between cash and shares.

Investing in the stock market could give you a better return over time, but you might also lose money. Coventry Building Society currently offers the top Junior Isa with a variable rate of 3.6 per cent.

If the rate drops, you can transfer the funds to a better deal.

Tesco Bank's Junior Isa pays a variable rate of 3.15 per cent.

> Check the best Junior Isa rates in This is Money's independent tables

Children can begin managing the account when they reach 16, however they cannot withdraw anything until they turn 18

SAVINGS ACCOUNTS

For many people, a Junior ISA isn't necessary, as they wouldn't pay tax anyway.

Children have the same tax allowance as adults — £11,850 for this year — and savings tax breaks which mean they could actually earn up to £17,850 in interest tax-free.

But if you are a parent gifting money to your own children, you need to beware of a tax trap that means if the interest on the child's account exceeds £100 in any year, you will have to pay tax on it at your normal income tax rate, unless it is held in a Junior Isa.

Grandparents and other relatives are not affected by this rule.

Skipton Building Society's Children's Saver account pays 2.25 per cent interest a year and can be opened by parents, grandparents and close relatives in branches or by post. You can pay in up to £50,000.

The relative will act as a trustee of the account until the child turns 18 (or 16 in Scotland).

Virgin Money's Young Saver also pays 2.25 per cent interest and can be opened by grandparents. You can save up to £25,000.

For those who want to drip feed cash gifts of between £10 and £100 a month, Halifax offers a Kids' Monthly Saver with an interest rate of 4.5 per cent for a year.

The child must be 15 or under and their parent or legal guardian must give permission.

If you paid in the maximum amount, you would save a total of £1,227, including interest, after a year.

Children have the same tax allowance as adults — £11,850 for this year — and savings tax breaks which mean they could actually earn up to £17,850 in interest tax-free

SET UP A TRUST

Ordinary savings accounts often give the child control from the age of 16 — even if you are named on the account.

If you'd rather they got access to their money when they turn 18, you need to set up the account as a 'bare trust'.

You — or someone else of your choosing — will act as the trustee. But the money is, under law, the property of the child — the beneficiary. They will automatically get access to it when they turn 18 (or 16 in Scotland).

In the meantime, any statements or letters about the account are sent to you as the trustee, who is also in charge of making deposits and withdrawals.

You should be able to set up a bare trust for any account. But the process can be complicated, with extra forms to fill in.

As with all children's accounts, you will need to provide proof of your own identity, as well as that of your grandchild, including their birth certificate and proof of where their parents live.

Nationwide's new Future Saver is automatically set up so that parents retain control of the money until they decide to hand it over to the child — for example, on their 21st birthday.

Only adults with parental responsibility for the child can be named as the account holder, but grandparents and other relatives can add to it.

It pays interest of 3.5 per cent on up to £5,000 a year if the parent has their main current account with the building society or 2.5 per cent if they don't.

It allows one withdrawal in each 12-month period; if you make more, the rate drops to 0.5 per cent for the rest of the year.

moneymail@dailymail.co.uk

====== 548 ========

BANKS THAT OFFER PERSONAL LOANS BIGGER THAN YOUR ANNUAL SALARY

Customers are being bombarded by banks with offers of personal loans larger than their annual salary.

Money Mail has discovered banks are marketing loans with sky-high interest rates, despite warnings that Britain's household debt has reached record levels.

UK families are currently £25billion in the red — equivalent to almost a quarter of the NHS budget, according to the Office for National Statistics.

But, despite alarming echoes of the lead-up to the 2008 financial crisis, lenders are continuing to push more unsecured debt as we approach the Christmas period.

Reckless lending: Banks are marketing loans with sky-high interest rates, despite warnings that Britain's household debt has reached record levels

Exclusive research for Money Mail reveals that half of Britons have been offered a personal loan by their bank in the past year, while a third have received an offer from a rival lender.

One in five say they are sent an email or letter about a loan at least every 12 weeks, according to the study of 1,267 people by researchers Consumer Intelligence.

Even more worrying is the size of the loans banks are offering. A quarter of borrowers say the loan was for more than £10,000, while a fifth say it was for more than their salary.

Even mortgage lenders typically only lend three to four times average salary, putting in perspective the huge sums banks are offering to pay for cars, renovations and everyday spending.

More than half of customers say that, had they accepted the loan offer, the repayments would have put them under financial pressure.

Even mortgage lenders typically only lend three to four times average salary

Separate research also shows major High Street banks are offering poor value interest rates on these loans.

In some cases, the interest rate offered by their own bank costs customers up to £1,400 more a year than the cheapest deals available on the market.

The banks and building societies that admit marketing personal loans to customers include Barclays, John Lewis Finance, Santander and Nationwide.

Lenders insist they only send this type of correspondence to customers who have agreed to receive offers. But this may just mean at some point the customer ticked, or forgot to untick, a box.

Most claim to carry out a detailed assessment of customers' financial history and their credit rating before making an offer.

In one example, Barclays sent a customer who had never expressed an interest in a personal loan an email once a month, offering 'personalised' deals. 'We've got your personalised loan rate.

Ready to go when you are,' it reads. 'If we approve your application, the money could be in your account in a few minutes.'

Addressing the customer by name, the email goes on to say: 'There's no hanging about with a Barclayloan personalised rate.

It's there, ready to help you get your plans moving, as soon as you decide you need it. With a single loan, you could spend less time on your finances, and more on the things you enjoy.'

In September, the City watchdog ordered banks to do more to help credit card customers in persistent debt

The email then breaks down the customer's 'personal example' of what loans he can get and how much they will cost. The biggest is for £50,000 — £10,000 more than the customer's salary.

And, at 12.1 per cent, the supposedly personalised interest rate was far higher than if he had shopped around. It would net the bank £16,000 in interest over 60 months.

According to comparison site uSwitch, NatWest offered the same size loan at just 6.9 pc, with monthly payments of £983 — almost £118 a month cheaper than with Barclays.

James Daley, managing director of Fairer Finance, says: 'It seems cavalier. If I was a Barclays shareholder, I'd be raising more than an eyebrow.

'For someone earning £40,000 to take out £50,000 of debt is potentially life-changing in terms of meeting the repayments. It seems irresponsible.'

In another example posted by a Barclays customer on Twitter, the bank offered her a £22,000 loan at a 'personalised' rate of 23.9 per cent.

By comparison, Sainsburys Bank offers a 2.9 per cent deal on a loan this size.

In John Lewis Finance's emails, it offers 'a loan you can live with', for up to £25,000. It provides an example interest rate of 2.86 per cent over five years, for a £10,000 loan, with monthly payments of £290.14.

Unlike Barclays, John Lewis's rate is very competitive. But lenders are only obliged to offer 51 per cent of successful applicants the advertised rate — so borrowers could end up with a far worse deal.

Andrew Hagger, of financial advice service MoneyComms, says: 'My concern is the banks are emailing you as if they are doing you a favour, so you might think they must be offering a good deal.

That is not always the case.'

This year, Money Mail revealed how banks routinely hike customers' credit card limits unprompted. In some cases, we found banks were tripling or even quadrupling people's limits without them asking.

Experts say banks are pushing personal loans after rules on issuing credit cards, mortgages and payday loans were tightened.

In September, the City watchdog ordered banks to do more to help credit card customers in persistent debt — someone who has in the past 18 months paid more in interest, fees and charges than they repaid of their borrowing.

It means that if customers are struggling, banks must offer them a reasonable way to repay their balance and waive fees.

The new rules followed a crackdown on payday lenders and hefty overdraft charges and an overhaul of the mortgage market in the wake of the credit crunch.

Yet the personal loan market has largely escaped scrutiny. Mr Daley adds: 'The personal loan sector has been relatively unaffected, so providers are pushing them as hard as they can.'

Jane Clack, a money adviser at PayPlan, says: 'Lenders need to take more responsibility to ensure that people are not falling into dangerous levels of debt.'

A Barclays spokesman said it only sends customers marketing about products if they've consented to receiving such messages.

A John Lewis Finance spokesman says: 'We only send marketing emails to customers who have chosen to receive them. Customers can unsubscribe at any time.'

l.eccles@dailymail.co.uk

====== 549 ========

MARKET REPORT: OUTSOURCER INTERSERVE ON THE BLOCK OVER £650M DEBT FEARS

Troubled outsourcer Interserve was back in the doghouse after admitting debt for the year will be higher than expected, and earnings from its waste-to-energy business will be lower than hoped.

The firm, which works for the likes of the Metropolitan Police and Edinburgh Zoo, had previously said its debt pile would end the year somewhere between £575million and £600million.

But it has warned this will be more like £625million to £650million, reawakening worries in the City that Interserve will be unable to pay off the debt.

Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell, said: 'It is encouraging to see management stick to its cost-reduction forecast for the year of £15million and continue to predict a strong increase in earnings.'

Interserve, which works for the likes of the Metropolitan Police and Edinburgh Zoo, has warned its debt pile will be £625m to £650m

There are a number of factors weighing on the support services sector in general.

These include complex company structures, a reliance on big contracts which can become very expensive if anything goes wrong, thin profit margins as contract prices are pushed lower, and high debt levels after long periods of pursuing growth.

Debbie White, an outsourcing veteran who was brought in to turn Interserve around last year, has already embarked on a plan to cut costs and sell parts of the business to pay off the debt burden.

She has said that the company will reveal a plan to further reduce the debt in 2019.

But Mould added: 'Some shareholders – and potential investors –may be wondering why a new plan designed to reduce debt is only being unveiled in 2019, when the share price slide suggests the company's situation remains acute.'

Stock Watch - Amerisur Resources Investors in Amerisur Resources are hoping oil will soon be flowing at its sites in Colombia, as the South America-focused firm signed a deal with a major oil group to pay for the appraisal of its sites. Occidental Petroleum Corporation will acquire 50 per cent of Amerisur's sites, and in return will fund a £72.7million exploration and appraisal programme. This will include a seismic scan of the sites and a drilling programme of five exploration wells. Shares jumped 20 per cent, or 2p, to 12p.

One of the problems for Interserve has been delays in the waste-to-energy plant it is building in Derby for Renewi.

Because the project will not be finished on time, it has had to pay penalties to Renewi.

Interserve's shares dropped 5.6 per cent, or 1.96p, to 33.04p yesterday, meaning £100million has been wiped off its market value since the beginning of the year.

The FTSE 100 briefly fell below 6930, the level it was at the start of the century before the dotcom bubble burst.

But it clawed back some of the losses to end the day down 0.11 per cent, or 7.46 points, at 6952.86.

The index was weighed down by heavyweight oil companies, as concerns that supply is set to outstrip global demand caused a commodities sell-off.

On the FTSE 250, brick-maker Ibstock built up gains after announcing it would sell its US manufacturer Glen-Gery.

Brickworks Limited is buying the division for £86million, more than eight times its earnings in the 12 months to June.

Ibstock said it will use the money to pay down its debt, which should end 2018 at about £50million.

It has also sold off some spare land, bringing in another £3.7million. The firm is still worried about uncertainty surrounding Brexit, but building work will not stop. Shares climbed by 8.2 per cent, or 18p, to 236.8p.

Shares in media company Future, which owns titles such as Real Homes and the official Playstation magazine, climbed 6.4 per cent, or 31p, to 514p as revenue soared.

In its media division, which includes online adverts, shopping and events, revenue shot up 88 per cent to £64.2million.

Even its magazine revenues rose, up 20 per cent at £60.4million, though this was mainly driven by buying five titles from Haymarket for £14million earlier this year.

Meanwhile, Record – a business which helps pension funds and other major investors iron out foreign currency risks – climbed 2.5 per cent, or 0.75p, to 31p on the back of higher client demand.

Graphene producer Directa Plus jumped 7.4 per cent, or 3.5p, to 51p, as it clinched a £177,000 contract with oil services firm GSP Group.

====== 550 ========

OUSTED GRANT THORNTON BOSS HITS OUT AT POISON PEN ENEMIES WHO BRANDED HER A 'SOCIALIST'

Shock departure: Sacha Romanovitch, 41, said she was disappointed by comments from colleagues at Grant Thornton

Grant Thornton's ousted boss has lashed out at internal critics following her shock decision to quit.

Sacha Romanovitch, 41, said she was disappointed by comments from colleagues at the auditing business after being branded a socialist in a poison pen letter.

Romanovitch, who was the only female boss of a large British accountant, last month revealed she was stepping down just days after initially vowing to stay on.

She had been at the centre of a power struggle in the partnership, which saw colleagues leak her annual performance review.

She angered them with an effort to turn the firm into a shared enterprise in which all 4,500 staff had a stake.

An anonymous note sent to newspapers accused her of pursuing a 'socialist agenda' and 'having a high social purpose' ahead of the business's financial performance.

Speaking at an event in London, she said: 'I feel disappointed that a small group – well, one individual – behaved in the way that they did.'

But she added: 'Having said that, the world often moves in mysterious ways and I think I've been through enough of life that, actually, it sometimes just gives you a prompt to say, 'Right, where can I make the biggest difference now?'.'

====== 551 ========

SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT: TRUST AIMS FOR LONG-TERM RETURNS FROM TOP GLOBAL FIRMS

Launched in 1909, Scottish Mortgage is the only investment trust on the FTSE 100

What does it do? The trust aims to invest savers’ money in strong global companies and grow their cash over the long term rather than focusing on income from dividends.

Launched in 1909, Scottish Mortgage is the only investment trust on the FTSE 100.

What does the manager invest in? Amazon and Netflix are both in the trust’s top ten holdings, along with Chinese online shopping giant Alibaba and car makers Tesla and Ferrari.

Faangs account for around 17 per cent of its holdings.

What do the experts say? Darius McDermott of Chelsea Financial Services says: ‘The trust is a big believer in not just the Faangs but the Chinese equivalents too.’

What do the experts like? The trust is cheap in terms of its fees and has an ongoing charge of just 0.37 per cent.

Because of its heavy exposure to US tech stocks, its share price is down 14.5 per cent since October.

For anyone who really believes in the Faang companies, McDermott adds, this makes the fund look attractive.

Are there any downsides? ‘It is very exposed to technology and the internet,’ McDermott concedes.

If the market starts favouring reliable companies which are producing steady dividends now, and risker high-growth companies which are promising a return for the future go out of favour, Scottish Mortgage could suffer.

====== 552 ========

DAILY BRIEFING: 'WE'RE HERE TO STAY', INSISTS DEBENHAMS BOSS

Debenhams boss Sergio Sergio Bucher said the department store is transforming its product range

DEBS VOW Sergio Bucher, the boss of Debenhams, has insisted his company is here to stay amid mounting concerns over its future.

Bucher, 55, said the department store is transforming its product range as it prepares to close a third of its 166 shops.

PUB PROFITS Profits at brewer Fuller’s plunged 12 per cent to £20.8million after a major renovation investment in its pubs. Revenues increased by 6 per cent to £222.1million in the 26 weeks to September 29.

CREDITORS HIT The administrator of newspaper group Johnston Press has warned creditors of a significant shortfall in cash needed to pay off money it owes.

Flying high London airport Gatwick has welcomed 46m passengers over the past year, which is a record high.

PENSION PLAN Outsourcer Capita has agreed a plan to plug its £185million pension black hole.

It will pay £176million into the pension scheme over the next four years. The outsourcing sector has come under pressure to prevent more failures after Carillion went bust in January.

STAKE SALE Israeli tech billionaire Teddy Sagi has completely sold his stake in Playtech, the gambling firm he founded in 1999, pocketing around £69million.

It comes on top of the £23million which the 47-year-old made last week, when he reduced his stake.

VOTER REVOLT More than a fifth of shareholders at miner Petra Diamonds voted against the re-election of the company’s founder to his role as non-executive chairman yesterday.

Investor advisory group Pirc had recommended a vote against Adonis Pouroulis, saying he was not independent enough.

ITALY FEARS Credit rating agency Moody’s has warned that escalating tensions between Italy and the EU are likely to increase risks to the country’s economy.

====== 553 ========

BIG SHOT OF THE WEEK: KATE SWANN IS THE BEST REGARDED BRITISH BOSS YOU MAY NEVER HAVE EVEN HEARD OF

Miracle worker: Kate Swann saved WH Smith from the High Street graveyard, trebled the share price of her current firm SSP

Kate Swann is Britain's best regarded female boss you may not even have heard of.

She saved WH Smith from the High Street graveyard, trebled the share price of her current firm SSP and in the struggling world of retail she has continually found growth where her contemporaries have encountered only despair.

She has the glossy looks of an extra from Dynasty yet eschews the jet-set lifestyle (she loathes flying, if you must know), speaks to the media only when necessary and never, ever struts.

In words of the BBC's late, great Olympics commentator Alan Weeks: 'Isn't she marvellous?'

Investors certainly think so. When Swann announced this week she was standing down from SSP – which runs food outlets such as Caffè Ritazza and Upper Crust –in six months time, the company's share price tumbled 8 per cent.

While she says she has nothing lined up, she insists she's not retiring. A host of plum jobs will soon become available – Rooney Anand's corner office at Greene King; the John Lewis chairmanship Sir Charles Mayfield relinquishes in 2020.

Might any of them appeal? 'I'll see what comes up,' she says nonchalantly.

Born in Hertfordshire, Swann was the first member of her family to go to university, undertaking a business degree at Bradford. Clearly she looks back on her time there fondly. She's currently the university's Chancellor.

After starting her career in 1986 as a trainee at Tesco, she took a string of marketing jobs where she displayed a knack for innovative thinking. At Coca-Cola, she pushed the company to use plastic, resealable bottles.

At Curry's, where she learned at the knee of Dixon's mercurial chief Stanley Kalms, she drove the move into megastores, a trick she repeated in her following job at Homebase.

When Swann landed the top job at WH Smith in 2003 aged just 39, having just served three years as managing director at Argos, the newsagent appeared to be heading down the same plughole that Woolworths was about to vanish. In her first results call, she announced losses of £72million, one of the worst performances in the retailer's history. Vultures hovered.

But where most turnaround plans mean flogging assets and stripping out half the work force, Swann decided to show a bit of imagination.

She separated the news distribution from the shops, concentrated on the store's core sales of books, stationery, newspapers, magazines and greetings cards and began to focus openings on airports and railway stations.

Before long, she had converted those heavy losses into treble digit profits. But it was a demanding role and 14-hour days were not unusual.

The return trip from her home near Stansted to WH Smith's Swindon offices was over 250 miles.

With two young daughters to care for, her husband Michael ended up quitting his job selling fruit and vegetables at the local branch of Sainsbury's to become a house husband.

When Swann announced she was off nine years later, with some £13million in her back pocket, she was hot property.

Many thought she was tailor-made for the top job at ailing Marks & Spencer or, at the very least, a high profile FTSE 100 position.

So it came as a surprise when it was announced she was joining the unglamorous world of travel-hub catering.

But like at WH Smith, she saw a company where improvements could be made and she's certainly achieved that.

In her five years at SSP, she's returned over £350million to shareholders via dividends.

This year's profits have leapt 26 per cent to £182.9million.

Having earned over £16million in her first four years there, her personal shareholding in the company stands at £29million.

Until she decides what to do next, there's a non exec directorship at England Hockey which can keep her busy.

She told The Times she got the role following years of watching her daughters play from the sidelines and decided to email the chairman with a few suggestions. It's hard to escape the notion this is a one woman ideas factory.

Can't wait to see what her Swann song's going to be.

====== 554 ========

THIS IS MONEY'S FIVE FAVOURITE BEST BUY CASH ISAS 2018

Every little helps: Savings rates might be low but at least an Isa means interest is tax-free

Our assistant editor Lee Boyce picks his five favourite cash Isas for savers in 2018 - essential reading to help you choose a top savings account for your money.

This top Isa round-up has keeping our readers updated on the best savings deals since 2014 - and is kept up-to-date throughout the year - bookmark it for the very latest developments.

How an Isa works and why you should have one

Each year in April, savers are given a fresh Isa allowance that qualifies for tax-free interest.

For the 2018-19 financial year, which began on 6 April 2018, the limit is £20,000.

You can transfer Isa money whichever way you wish between an investment account to savings account, whereas previously you could only shift it from saving to investments.

Although cash Isas don't currently offer fantastic rates, it is still worthwhile opening one to shield money away from the taxman.

Isa rules state you can only contribute to one Isa per tax year.

You can also transfer an old Isa for better returns. Here's a quick guide to Isa saving.

It is possible to switch your current year's cash Isa if you move the entire amount, but it is far simpler to get your choice right in the first place.

Rates are low and that makes the best Isa more important

Banks and building societies should be apologising to savers for the slim pickings on offer here.

Savings rates really are dire at the moment and unfortunately, institutions are doing little to shelter savers from the assault of the low interest rate environment.

The cut to 0.25 per cent for the base rate, launch of a new funding scheme to pump cheap money to banks, and expansion of quantitative easing, has made things even worse.

Many now ask themselves why bother?

Yet when rates are low it becomes even more important to make sure you are getting as much as you can from your savings.

We also think an Isa is still worth having, despite the new tax-free savings interest allowance of £1,000 a year for basic rate taxpayers and £500 for higher rate taxpayers.

It's tough to get that much interest now, but one day rates will rise.

Money sheltered in an Isa will deliver a tax-free income, even above that £1,000 level and if you are building up a long-term pot, you may one day be very grateful for that.

And who knows if the personal savings allowance will be around forever - it is much more likely to disappear than the Isa wrapper.

You may also want to look into stocks and shares version of an Isa - how to choose the best (and cheapest) DIY investing Isa.

HOW WE PICK OUR FAVOURITE FIVE ISAS Lee Boyce: This is Money's savings expert Our five favourite Isas round-up is a permanent feature of This is Money. It comes complete with an explanation detailing why we're happy to pick each account. This page will be kept updated as and when new deals pop up or old ones get scrapped. Our team work tirelessly to stay on top of the latest rate changes, but banks and building societies can pull deals without telling us. If you spot a deal here that is not longer available please email us at editor@thisismoney.co.uk Remember, you can open an Isa or transfer (provided you're not tied to a fixed-term) at any time during the year. Note that we don't just copy the best rates from the savings tables - we scour the market for all-around winners. This is a taster of the top deals. For the best rates, visit our savings rates tables, which are comprehensive and independently compiled.

Our five favourite Isas:



- Facts: £1 to open

- Transfers in: Yes

- This is Money says: This new best buy easy-access tax-free account from challenger bank Paragon is the highest rate since June 2016. It can be opened with £1, accepts transfers in - but is 'limited edition'.

- Facts: £1,000 to open

- Transfers in: Yes

- This is Money says: Aldermore Bank offers the top short-term fixed cash Isa rate alongside Al Rayan Bank. It accepts transfers in at opening and requires a minimum of £1,000.

- Facts: £1,000 to open

- Transfers in: Yes

- This is Money says: This account from challenger bank Al-Rayan Bank is the best buy two year fix. It is a Sharia-compliant bank - the 'rate' is expected profit. It allows transfers in - and money is FSCS protected.

- Facts: £1 to open

- Transfers in: Yes

- This is Money says: This account from Virgin Money is slightly behind Paragon Bank as the best buy easy-access option, but only allows access two times a year, hence the name 'double-take' Isa. It is only available to open online.

- Facts: £1 to open

- Transfers in: Yes

- This is Money says: This is the best rate you can get on an Isa - but it requires fixing for five years. United Trust Bank also offer 2.3 per cent over the same term.

====== 555 ========

HOW TO SWITCH ENERGY PROVIDERS AND GET A CHEAPER DEAL

All of the Big Six energy providers have hiked their prices this year - and four have even done so twice - so it's even more important to make sure you are on the best and cheapest tariff as the autumn winds blow in.

Moving suppliers is much easier than you think. Below we explain how to search for the right deal for you, which providers offer the cheapest rates and what switching involves.

We also give you the opportunity to sign up to our Autumn Energy Collective to secure an exclusive tariff and fight back against rip-off energy deals.

Bills: If you've never switched supplier then you could save a substantial amount by moving to a different firm

This is Money has once again teamed up with Energyhelpline to launch an Autumn Energy Collective to help readers fight back against rising energy bills.

We put the squeeze on suppliers using people power to negotiate an exclusive tariff. The last winning offer we whipped up saved switcher's an average £226 per year on their bills.

You can register your interest in with just a few details using the form below and there is no obligation to switch.

Alternatively you can read more about how it works here

Rule number one - ditch the standard variable rate tariff

Standard variable rate tariffs (SVR) are the out of contract deals your energy provider will move you to once your fixed deal ends.

They are much more expensive adding an average £262 to annual fuel bills, according to figures from First Utility last year.

Plus these are the tariffs which energy suppliers can hike costs on.

The Big Six's grip on the energy market is slowly beginning to loosen as more and more households ditch them for smaller suppliers.

These energy minnows now dominate the best-buy tables as well as often offering better service.

And you might be surprised by how simple the switching process can actually be.

Those on the hunt for a better deal have heaps of choice whether it is a long-term fix, variable rate or tariff from a smaller or green supplier you are looking for, with tariffs cut to well under £1,000.

Although the savings from switching are not quite as big as they were a few years ago switching should remain a key part of your personal finance maintenance.

If you are one of the millions of people who have NEVER switched (i.e. stuck with your original supplier), then you could also save a big chunk of cash.

If you want to cut straight to comparison, you can compare energy tariffs, with the choice of entering your own energy use, using our energy price comparison tool - click here

Things to remember

Your bill will show two costs - a fixed standing rate charge and the price per unit (or Kwh of energy used).

Online plans paid by direct debit are still the most competitively priced and if you have never switched, choosing one of these will save you the most money.

You can either opt for a variable rate tariff, where the price can go up or down or a fixed rate tariff which gives you a secure price on each unit of electricity you use for a set period.

SAVINGS: TRICKS AND TRAPS 1) Regular meter readings. Make sure you check every time you receive a bill, rather than relying on an estimate by your energy provider's estimate. 2) Change to online bills. You could save up to 10%. 3) Avoid prepayment meters if you can, and swap to a billed meter. Even if you have to pay to get one, it's probably worth it for the savings you'll gain. 4) If you're in financial trouble some companies offer special deals, which help ease any difficulties you might be facing. But don't just assume this will be the cheapest option - make sure you still do your homework. 5) Dual fuel (gas and electricity from the same supplier) is not always the cheapest option. 6) Monthly direct debit payments could save you 5-10% as companies are more confident that customers won't default and earn interest on any overpayments. Check any extra payments are refunded at the end of the year. 5) Swot up on how to lower your energy use Here's a few top tips to help you save more money by cutting your gas and electricity use

Historically variable rate tariffs have tended to be cheaper. But at the moment the cheapest rates are currently offered on one-year fixes and all of the Big Six have pledged to freeze even their variable rates until 2015.

However you will still pay a premium if you want long-term price security.

But, some may still find that they save money switching to a fixed tariff, particularly if you've never switched and are not signed up to a duel fuel and paying by direct debit.

====== 556 ========

TOP CREDIT CARDS FOR SPENDING, HOLIDAYS OR REWARDS

Are you planning on making a big purchase or doing some home improvements? Do you need to tackle your debts once and for all? Or could you be making more of your everyday spending?

Whatever you are thinking of doing, if it is going to involve a credit card, then it is essential that you get the right one.

Choose the right deal and you can clear your debts faster, spread the cost of an expensive purchase and even earn a tidy sum in airline points, cashback or rewards.

Pick the wrong one, however, or fail to manage it correctly and you can be left with a hefty bill, and a credit rating in tatters.

Play your cards right: This is Money has rounded up the best credit card offers

This is Money has scoured the market and picked out what we believe are the best credit card deals to help you make the most of your money.

We pick these because we think that they offer something that makes them stand out from the crowd, they may not always have the absolute lowest rate or longest special offer, but they are judged by our independent research to offer a good deal.

Do you need to clear existing debt? Before you think about signing up for a new card to use for spending, you should make sure that your existing debts are in order. If you’ve racked up a load of debt and have decided to make a fresh start on tackling it, zero per cent balance transfer cards could be the way to go. Moving your debt to an interest-free card means that you can freeze the size of your debt, rather than continually play catch-up as interest piles on the pounds. Make sure you stick to the rules though and clear your debt within the time period, otherwise you could be hit with high interest rates - and remember card firms offer interest-free periods because they manage to catch so many people out. The right balance transfer card for you depends on your circumstances, so rather than recommend one 'best' option here, we would instead recommend readers go to our in-depth guide to 0 per cent balance transfer cards for the best deal.

Best credit cards for spending on big purchases

Interest-free spending

If you’re planning some home improvements or large purchases in the near future and need some extra cash for spending, as long as you are confident you can pay off the full amount within 24 months or slightly longer to avoid high interest rates , a 0 per cent purchase card could be a good option for you.

Remember, you will need to be disciplined about clearing the balance before the end of the term, otherwise interest on the remaining amount will quickly make it an expensive option.

Before you apply, read more about how to avoid the 0 per cent interest traps here

LONGEST INTEREST-FREE PURCHASE CREDIT CARDS Top deals Purchase offer Extras Standard APR Sainsbury's Bank Nectar Purchase card 29 months 29 months 0% balance transfers, 3% fee, Nectar points for spending, Up to 7,500 point bonus in first 2 months. 19.9% Tesco Bank 28 months 3 months 0% balance transfers, 2.9% fee 18.9% Barclaycard 27 months 27 months 0% interest on balance transfers, 1.45% fee for transfers within 60 days via refund. 19.9% Halifax 27 months 3 months 0% interest on balance transfers, 3% fee 19.9% HSBC 26 months 26 months 0% balance transfers, 2.89% fee. £25 cashback offer on first purchases/balance transfer of at least £300 within 60 days. 22.9% Correct as of October 5 2018

Could you be better with a long-term low rate instead?

If you are happy to sidestep a 0 per cent interest period, another credit card option for anyone wanting to take the pressure off paying within a set time period is a permanent low-interest card.

These give the flexibility of knowing that you have a card to hand to spread big purchases out, without worrying about falling foul of any small print.

Protecting your money Another major bonus with rewards cards is the consumer protection you are entitled to, under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Put simply, if you use the credit card to buy something worth more than £100, here or abroad, the card issuer is equally liable if something goes wrong.

Missing payments, paying late or spending beyond your limit risk losing an interest-free term which can quickly land you in hot water when standard interest at 18 or 19 per cent is slapped on your remaining balance.

The benefit is that if you decide not to pay off the entire balance every month, you will only have to pay minimal interest.

You must have a good credit rating to be approved.

Tesco Bank currently charges the cheapest rate on the market for those preferring a no-frills low rate credit card over a 0 per cent interest deal.

It has an APR of 5.9 per cent and offers shoppers Clubcard points on their spending.

Check out this is Money's favourite low-rate credit card here

Best credit cards for rewards

Over recent years some of the most lucrative schemes have unfortunately been scrapped or scaled back.

But there are still a few cards that if you do it right, could earn you £100s worth of goods and services for free.

Remember: Each company operates under their own points system, so make sure you check what each point is actually worth – something that may appear to offer huge bonuses could in reality be almost worthless.

Below we have picked a few of our favourites, alternatively read more about all of the top deals in our in depth guide:

Travel rewards: pay with a credit card to get deals on trips

Best for airline points: British Airways American Express Premium Plus Card

Your choice of rewards card will largely depend on which airlines you prefer because a combination of credit card and frequent flyer points are going to get you the best discounts.

However, if you are a big spender, the British Airways Premium Plus Amex card is one of the most lucrative deals on the market.

>Read out top five tips on boosting your Avios points pot without spending any more

What do you get?

The major crowdpleaser is the free companion ticket if you spend more than £10,000 a year - remember you still have to foot the bill for taxes, fees and charges though.

The sign-up bonuses are good, too. At the moment you get 25,000 Avios points when you successfully apply and spend £3,000 within the first t hree months.

Cardholders can get automatic enrollment to the British Airways Executive Club, which includes priority on standby waiting lists, 24/7 support when traveling outside the UK through Global Assist, and travel accident insurance of up to £75,000 on public transport when booked with your Amex card.

You get 1.5 Avios points for each £1 you spend. You also get three Avios point for every £1 you spend with British Airways or BA holidays.

As a guideline - You will need 9,000 points for a return flight to Berlin, 15,000 gets you as far as Rome and 20,000 buys you a return flight to Moscow.

The small-print

Points expire after 36 months if you don't add to your account.

There is a £195 annual fee and the 22.9 per cent rate on purchases means you need to make sure you pay the card off in full each month.

To be eligible you must have a household income of £30,000 and no history of bad credit.

If you don't want to pay an annual fee, there is a free alternative, the British Airways American Express card, however thanks to a recent legal ruling against Amex, experts have said this may not be around for long.

You can read more about the ruling, and whether it's still worth signing up to it here.

Tandem: the best deal if you don't mind using an app Challenger Bank, Tandem, pays 0.5 per cent cashback on all spending, including while on holiday. Plus it comes with no fee for use abroad. Watch out Interest on all cash withdrawals (at home and abroad) is applied immediately, so you will want to pay it off as soon as possible. But the newcomer won’t load the rate and users receive the MasterCard exchange rate which tends to be more competitive than Visa's. The major drawback for some however, you can only access your account via its smartphone app, which may put some people off. But the app is a useful tool to help with budgeting and offers personalised spending insights. You can read more about the card, and This is Money's verdict here

Best for overseas spending: Halifax

Halifax Clarity credit card has long been a popular option for no-frills overseas spending.

Dream holiday: A specialist travel credit card won't charge you extra for spending abroad

What it offers

Halifax demands no extra charges for spending abroad anywhere or any extra for withdrawing cash at home and abroad.

Standard interest is set at 18.9 per cent - there are a few options (below) which have lower interest rates on spending.

But its a Mastercard which means conversion rates are much better.

There is no annual fee - so there are zero extra costs as long as you pay off your balance in full every month.

Additional cards on the same account are available and you can manage your account online.

Watch out for

Interest is charged immediately at the card’s standard rate of 18.9 per cent on cash withdrawals, but you can minimise the cost by repaying in full as soon as possible.

Purchases abroad don't incur any interest as long as you repay the amount by the date shown on your statement.

Depending on your credit score applicants may be given a higher interest rate of 25.9 per cent.

You will be charged £12 if you pay your balance late, have a payment returned or go over your limit.

>Skip to This is Money's roundup of the top cards to use abroad

Best rewards cards for supermarkets: Tesco Clubcard Credit Card for Purchases

The card that’s right for you will depend on where you like to shop, but the Tesco Clubcard Credit Card for Purchases is particularly r ewarding for supermarket spending.

It gives one Clubcard point for every £4 you spend on it in Tesco stores or on Tesco Fuel and one point for ever £8 spent elsewhere. This is in addition to the 1 point per £1 you already earn using its loyalty scheme.

One point is worth 1p if spent in-store at Tesco and up to 3p if redeemed using Tesco's Clubcard rewards vouchers.

These can be used for a variety of restaurants, cinemas and other entertainment venues, as well as travel, thro ugh Avios .

The small print

Points expire after two years and rewards vouchers, two-and-a-half.

Make sure you pay the card off in full each month otherwise rewards will be quickly cancelled out.

Points will not be awarded for some products, including tobacco or tobacco related products, lottery, stamps, prescription medicines, infant formula milk, Tesco Gift Cards, saving stamps, Esso fuel, Paypoint payments or for purchases of some Tesco Bank products.

Tip yourself: Earn a percentage of your credit card spending back

Best credit card for cashback: American Express Platinum Cashback Everyday Card

The American Express Platinum Cashback Everyday Card has the highest cashback rate currently available – and, as an added incentive, there is no annual fee to pay.

You will need to spend at least £3,000 on the card each year to qualify for the cashback.

What do you get?

Spend £2,000 on your Platinum Cashback Card in the first three months and you will receive £100 in cashback

You can also earn cashback on supermarket and petrol spends, as well as travel and entertainment. In fact, you can earn money on virtually all your everyday purchases.

After the first three months the rate drops from the 5 per cent introductory offer to a maximum of 1 per cent.

Spend £0 to £5,000 and receive 0.5% cashback on that spend

Spend above £5,000, receive 1% cashback on that spend

You are also eligible for travel accident insurance for up to £150,000 on public transport when you buy your ticket with your card.

Complimentary supplementary cards for family members are available, generating even more cashback for your account.

The small print

You must spend a minimum of £3,000 a year to qualify for cashback.

Cashback is not earned on balance transfers, cash advances, American Express travellers cheques purchases, foreign exchange transactions or interest.

Remember, cashback incentives are there to encourage you to buy more on your card - and pay higher interest charges.

====== 557 ========

TEN TIPS FOR CHEAPER CAR INSURANCE

The mistake most drivers make is failing to shop around for the best premium and simply accepting an insurer's renewal quote, which is likely to be much higher.

The good news is that comparing car insurance is normally simple and easy and you can find the best price in less than five minutes.

You can then compare the quality of the policy and have a idea of the best price to negotiate with your existing insurer, if you want to stay put.

The quick way and easy to save on car insurance We list our ten tips to find the best car insurance deal below - but for a quick money-saver, you can also use our carefully chosen quick comparison engine powered by MoneySupermarket with the link below. > Compare car insurance from more than 130 insurers

Motoring costs: Use our ten-step plan to lower your car insurance costs

Furthermore, comparing prices to find the best car insurance deal is crucial at the moment, as costs are rising.

Thanks to recent reforms to compensation payouts, motorists face a 10 per cent - around £50 - hike in their car insurance premiums. Piling on more pain, bill payers also saw an extra £10 on average added to bills thanks to a rise in insurance premium tax to 12 per cent.

Therefore, it is now more important than ever to make sure you are not overpaying for your car insurance.

There are a handful of ways to help reduce your car insurance costs? Whether you are male or female, old or young, follow our ten steps to lower premiums.

1. Shop around for the best car insurance

This is the number one way to save on car insurance. Savings of hundreds of pounds can be found if you shop around when you renew your cover.

Be careful though. When shopping around for car insurance, it's important to make sure that you are comparing like-for-like cover. Some policies may seem cheaper, but you may find you don't have the same level of cover when you have to make a claim.

Use an online comparison service to do the hard work for you. Put in your details and check the prices that come up. You can alter the excess that you are willing to pay and the mileage you will drive and get new quotes.

Try This is Money's car insurance search powered by MoneySupermarket here - it will search more than 130 insurers for you, remember your details for next year and remind you when it is time to renew.

Also check the insurers that don't feature in comparison sites, the big two are Direct Line and Aviva. It is also worth checking Admiral separately for its Multicar offers if you are looking to insure more than one vehicle.

Other car insurance comparison options include Confused.com, GoCompare, and ComparetheMarket

If you've been happy with the cover your existing provider has given until now but are unhappy with their renewal quote, let them know the best offer you have received from a rival insurer and ask them to at least match it. Comparing prices is essential to finding this information.

BLACK BOX TECHNOLOGY CUT MY PREMIUMS BY £800 Boxing clever: Laura Keely's premium has been slashed All drivers, especially the youngest, can also grab themselves potentially much cheaper car insurance by opting for a blackbox policy (also know as telematics policy) - these monitor your driving and reward those who are careful and don't get behind the wheel at dangerous times. Laura Keely, right, opted to have a black box installed in the dashboard of her Vauxhall Corsa provided by Insurethebox. Previously, she paid £1,800 for a comprehensive policy. Twelve months on, her premiums dropped to just £1,000 — a 44 per cent fall.

2. Don't put everyone on your policy

Ensure that only regular drivers are named on the policy. You can always add someone for a few days when they really need to drive the car.

3. Protect that no-claims bonus

A long no-claims bonus is the single best way of cutting car insurance costs, so protect it.

This may increase the premium by a few pounds, but this fades into insignificance against the potential loss of a 90 per cent discount on a premium of several hundred pounds.

But the definition of a protected no-claims bonus can vary widely between insurers.

Though accidents caused by another driver will normally have no impact on such a bonus, those caused by the insured could. The key is to always check the policy carefully.

4. Increase your voluntary excess

Agreeing to pay more towards the cost of any accident repairs will bring down premiums. If you are not at fault in an accident, the excess can be recovered. Beware being tempted to allow it to rise too high, however, especially if you have a lower value car.

5. Secure your car

Fitting an approved alarm, immobiliser or tracking device can attract a discount of around 5 per cent. Many newer cars will come with these as standard, so make sure you check if you have them and then declare them.

EXTRA TRICKS TO CUT THE CAR INSURANCE BURDEN Don't forget to haggle! The car insurance market is notoriously competitive. Once you've been on This Is Money's comparison and found your cheapest price (below), get on the phone and start bargaining! Avoid paying monthly charges: D irect debit instalments generally come hand-in-hand with high interest rates. An alternative is to borrow the money on a 0 per cent purchase credit card and then clear it within a year. [ Check the best 0% purchase credit cards here ] Think outside the box: An accelerated no-claim s bonus, such as the Bonus Accelerator from Admiral , could give you a year's no claims bonus after just 1 0 months. Named drivers and friends and family: If you have previously been insured as an additional driver on another policy, see if you can transfer a no claims bonus to your own insurance coverage. So me insurers do this, including The AA and Direct Line . Try for a discount by insuring two or more vehicles between friends or family members with the same firm.

No claims discount: It could be worth paying extra to protect yours

6. Do fewer miles

Reduced mileage equates to a greater saving.

For example, a reduction in annual mileage of 5,000 miles could save a typical 35-year-old driver about £50 a year in premiums.

A cut of 10,000 miles a year could save more than £100.

But you must be honest about your annual mileage, as inaccuracy will jeopardise any claim.

Check your use cover - if you don't use your car to drive to work or for business - both things that increase your premium - you may be able to get a cheaper rate.

7. Think carefully about adding young drivers

Adding a young, inexperienced driver to your policy can be a false economy, especially if you have a large or higher powered vehicle.

The premium will still be affected by the youngest driver and he or she may not have a no-claims bonus. Insurers have also been cracking down on fronting, where parents insure cars in their name for children to cut costs, so make sure if you are the policyholder on a car driven by your children that you are actually its main driver, or that you declare otherwise.

8. Watch out for insurance trap cars

If you decide to change your car, check with your insurer if the model will have a significant effect on the premium.

Sporty cars can attract a high premium and often a slightly different model or smaller engine can make a big difference in your favour. It will also probably save you on petrol too!

Be aware that Insurers will try to include administration fees for changes to a policy mid-term. This fee, usually between £25 and £50, will be added if you change a vehicle or your home address.

However, you can ask for the fee to be waived if it is a minor adaptation, such as changing to a personalised registration number.

9. Remember what the garage is for

If your garage is full of junk, clear it out and use it for your car.

Insurers like cars kept in garages overnight and this can dramatically cut your premium.

Aside from the benefit of not having to scrape the ice off in winter, there is a higher risk of theft by keeping the car on the road, so keeping it in the garage will be reflected in your premium.

10. Be a better driver and sign up to a blackbox

Blackbox policies, where the insurer installs a system in your car to monitor your driving, reward those who drive carefully.

Officially called telematics, these check your speed, how aggressive you accelerate and brake and how cautiously you drive, and also whether you are on the road at perceived dangerous times - i.e. the early hours of the morning.

They can cut premiums substantially once you start proving you are a good driver. The biggest win is for those whose premiums are high, especially young drivers.

Some insurers even offer an up front discount if you take out a telematics policy.

Women and cheaper insurance The EU ruled that finance companies can no longer consider your gender when deciding what to charge you. This was triggered by a European Court of Justice ruling on a challenge by a Belgian consumer group. Its case was that the exemption for insurers contradicted the principle of gender equality. The ban came into force on 21 December 2012, after fierce campaign for UK firms which argued that they were not discriminating between the sexes — but instead were basing their prices on statistics. Their argument was that as women live longer they pay less for life insurance, and get cheaper car cover because they have fewer accidents. The move to so-called gender-neutral pricing will affect premiums for all types of insurance — including car, life, private medical and income cover. Despite this, there is still a significant difference between the prices paid by by male and female drivers on average, which is currently almost £100.





====== 558 ========

BEST DEBIT AND CREDIT CARDS FOR OVERSEAS SPENDING

Whether you are jetting off for some winter sun, planning a New Year skiing trip or a weekend city break - sorting your holiday money is a top priority.

Swipe your everyday credit card or debit card abroad and you will end up paying through the nose, as most charge an extra 3 per cent for the privilege.

But there are ways to avoid extra costs when making purchases or withdrawing money abroad.

Here we pick the best accounts which offer small or, even better, no fees - a worthwhile money-saver, particularly if you are a frequent-flyer.

On holiday? Relax and make sure you're not spending too much on fees

While it is hard to predict what rates will do in the future, the pound plummeted against both the US dollar and the euro haven't returned to pre-Brexit vote levels hitting travellers wallets hard.

Now it is more important than ever to avoid hefty fees from your bank to make sure your cash stretches as far as possible while on holiday.

Current accounts

They may be free to use at home, but debit cards can be serious offenders when it comes to extra holiday costs.

Some provider charge as much as £1.50 every time you use your card on top of loading the exchange rate.

Big charges mean that you should avoid taking out small amounts of cash often and try to take out larger amounts less regularly, although this brings its own risks in terms of theft.

Luckily, if you don't want to pay out to spend, there are a few options out there that can help you to avoid extra costs.

Starling - the best of the bunch but you have to bank via an app

Starling was the first of the challengers to launch an app-only current account in the UK.

While banking on your mobile might not be for everyone the fee overseas spending and withdrawals everywhere in the world might be enough to persuade you - a perk unavailable anywhere else.

Rival challenger Monzo previously offered the same deal, but it recently added a cap on free overseas withdrawals of £200 per month, with a 3 per cent charge after that.

There are no guarantees Starling will be able to sustain its free withdrawals, but it is currently the cheapest account on the market for overseas spending and withdrawals.

The app lets you categorise your spending, freeze your card temporarily if you lose it and set up savings goals.

Watch out for

If you stray into your overdraft there are no usage fees, but interest will be applied at 15 EAR per cent.

Selfie banking: Metro says customers can open accounts online within 10 minutes - and it means you don't need to go into branch

Metro Bank - free in Europe

Metro Bank's current account is a relatively small newcomer, proud of its customer-centric approach to banking. Its current account is a straightforward, no-frills option.

Metro only has a few branches but it also allows online applications. The bank also has a new mobile banking tool with beefed-up budgeting features.

No overseas charges in Europe

Metro Bank will not charge you for using your card or withdrawing money from an ATM abroad in Europe, but it will charge you for use in the rest of the world.

It will charge 2.5 per cent on card purchases – and £1.50 on cash withdrawals from ATMs.

Watch out for

Agreed overdrafts and unagreed overdrafts both incur interest at a rate of 15 per cent. You will be charged £10 for paid and unpaid items.

Charges are capped at six a month - but bear in mind you may have to start paying interest on them if it tips you into the red.

Any others?

Virgin Money has an Essential Current Account offering no fees for overseas purchases. You will need to avoid using the card to take cash out at an ATM abroad as it applies a £1.50 charge.

The Essential Current Account is a basic account without an overdraft - these can be a helpful tool for anyone looking to avoid hefty borrowing fees.

It also offers 0.75 per cent interest. You can only apply in branch however.

Watch out: Cash withdrawals abroad often come with flat fees of up to £1.50 each

Credit cards

Most cards add around 3 per cent cost to the exchange rates banks themselves get.

You can avoid this by picking a specialist card, which won't apply non-sterling transaction fees or cash withdrawal charges.

Watch out: Most providers will charge interest on cash withdrawals immediately, until you pay off the amount in full.

To avoid clocking up interest therefore avoid leaving it until you get home to pay off the balance after using an ATM.

Tandem: Spenders earn 0.5 per cent back on any purchase over £1

Tandem Bank

Challenger Bank, Tandem, has a cashback credit card offering 0.5 back on all spending.

Another bonus - it won't charge you overseas fees for spending or withdrawals.

However you can only access your account via its smartphone app, which may put some people off.

The bank also offers an option with no overseas fees for those with a poor credit rating. You can read more about this in our full review of the Journey credit card.

What it offers

You earn 0.5 per cent back on every transaction over £1. It comes with a beefed-up smartphone app which offers personalised spending insights.

You can also link existing current accounts through the app and pull in information from other banks. Plus you to set budgets, see where your money is going and get balance projections based on your regular bills and spending habits.

There are no overseas transaction charges for using the card abroad to spend or withdraw cash.

However interest on all cash withdrawals (at home and abroad) is applied immediately, so you will want to pay it off as soon as possible.

Tandem won’t load the rate and users receive the MasterCard exchange rate which tends to be more competitive than Visa's.

Watch out for

If you use the card to withdraw cash at home there is a fee of 2.5 per cent (minimum £2.50).

Interest on purchases and withdrawals is 18.9 per cent APR, although you may be offered a higher rate when you apply depending on your credit score.

More to spend: Saving money on spending and cash fees means you will have extra for your trip

Barclaycard

Barclaycard's Platinum Travel card charges no transaction fees for purchases or withdrawals abroad - but only until 31 August 2022, after that, you will be charged 2.99 per cent.

Plus it comes with 0 per cent interest on purchases for the first 12 months.

What it offers

Unlike some rival offers you won't be charged interest on overseas withdrawals as soon as they are made, you have the typical 56 day grace period.

Plus it is one of the few overseas spending cards which also offers a 0 per cent interest deal on purchases.

This means you will be charged nothing to use your credit card to spend while abroad even after the statement period, as long as you pay it off before the 12-month 0 per cent deal ends.

Watch out

Standard interest once the 0 per cent promotion ends is 19.9 per cent. Withdrawals at home will clock up interest at 27.9 per cent.

The card is a Visa which typically offers worse exchange rates than Mastercard.

Beach life: Don't let extra charges drive up the cost of your dream holiday

Halifax

Halifax Clarity credit card has long been a popular option for no-frills overseas spending.

Halifax demands no extra charges for spending abroad anywhere or any extra for withdrawing cash at home and abroad.

Standard interest is set at 18.9 per cent - there are a few options (below) which have lower interest rates on spending.

But its a Mastercard which means conversion rates are much better.

There is no annual fee - so there are zero extra costs as long as you pay off your balance in full every month.

Additional cards on the same account are available and you can manage your account online.

Watch out for

Interest is charged immediately at the card’s standard rate of 18.9 per cent on cash withdrawals, but you can minimise the cost by repaying in full as soon as possible.

Purchases abroad don't incur any interest as long as you repay the amount by the date shown on your statement.

Depending on your credit score applicants may be given a higher interest rate of either 21.9 per cent or 25.9 per cent.

You will be charged £12 if you pay your balance late, have a payment returned or go over your limit.

Water sports: Credit card fees can push up the cost of paying for holiday activities

The best of the rest

Creation

Creation's Everyday Credit Card charges no fees for withdrawing money or spending overseas but it is a relative newcomer to the market which may put people off.

It does however have a lower-than-average APR at just 12.9 per cent but those without a spotless credit score couple be offered a rate of up to 21.9 per cent. It applies interest on cash withdrawals as soon as they are made.

Santander

Santander's Zero Credit Card again has no overseas fees for spending or withdrawing cash from an ATM anywhere in the world.

There is no monthly fee and a standard interest rate of 18.9 per cent.

Again withdrawals begin to clock up interest as soon as they are made, and at a higher rate of 29.9 per cent.

Aqua

Aqua Advance credit card is geared towards those with a less-than-perfect credit rating, offering them the change to reduce their APR from 34.9 per cent to 19.9 per cent after three years if they use the card responsibly.

It charges nothing to make a purchase overseas on the card however cash withdrawals clock up a 3 per cent charges (minimum £3).

Post Office

The Post Office credit card comes with no purchase fees on when shopping abroad or when buying in a foreign currency from home, online or over the phone.

There are also no cash fee for using the card to buy travel cash at the Post Office. Withdrawing money from an ATM overseas will incur a 2.5 per cent fee, set at a minimum of £3.

Virgin Money

Virgin Money has a Travel Credit Card which also offers 0 per cent interest on purchases and balance transfers for 12 months and charges nothing for spending abroad.

However the bank applies a 5 per cent cash withdrawal fee on when you use an ATM abroad so watch out. Interest on cash withdrawals will also be applied instantly.

====== 559 ========

BEST 0% BALANCE TRANSFER CREDIT CARDS TO CLEAR YOUR DEBTS

Balance transfer credit cards are a great tool to help clear your expensive debts quicker thanks to lengthy interest-free deals lasting up to three years.

If you use these deals sensibly, these 0 per cent interest terms mean your repayments are focused on clearing your balance, rather than covering interest.

The number of interest-free balance transfer deals on offer however is falling, and promotional terms are shortening as banks tighten lending, but the top deals still offer up to 36 months.

Interest freeze: An extended 0 per cent interest term can help borrowers clear their debts quicker

Those with short to medium-term debts can use such offers to finally get out of the red, while those with much more to repay can look to these cards to provide a lower cost alternative to their existing debts.

But beware: there are caveats to consider and barriers to overcome when applying for such cards (see box) below.

Many balance transfer cards also come with a 0 per cent period for new purchases as well.

Avoid the balance transfer credit card traps

The crucial thing to remember is that card companies aren't providing cheap credit as a favour.

They want you to not clear debts during the 0 per cent period and spend more on the card, which makes them money.

Avoiding falling into this trap is the key to balance transfer success.

Remember, you are trying to repay your debts, not build up more. So think hard before buying anything else with credit.

Work out how much you need to repay each month in order to clear the debt in time and set up a direct debit.

Beware, pay late or spend beyond your limit and you could have the 0 per cent promotion whipped away.

This is Money has compiled a selection of the best deals currently available in the balance transfer market.

This page is kept updated throughout the year - bookmark it for the very latest developments.

Longest balance transfer credit card deals

LONGEST INTEREST-FREE BALANCE TRANSFER CREDIT CARDS Provider





Interest-free term on balance transfers

Interest-free term on purchases

Transfer fee





APR



Extra info





Tesco Bank 36 months - 2.69% 18.9% You must transfer a balance within the first 90 days to get the promotional offer fee. Also comes with 36 months' 0% interest on money transfers (3.94% fee) Halifax 34 months 3 months 3% 19.9% Includes 3 months 0% interest on purchases Barclaycard 33 months 6 months 1.95% 19.9% Requires 3.5% initial fee, but transfers within 60 days receive 1.55% refund. Currently offering £20 cashback when you transfer a £2,000 balance. M&S Bank 32 months 6 months 0.99% 19.9% £5 M&S voucher after first purchase in at M&S. HSBC 32 months 3 months 1.4% 19.9% You must transfer the balance in the first 60 days. £25 cashback on first spend or transfer over £300 within Correct as of September 25 2018

THE SMALL PRINT: READ THIS BEFORE YOU APPLY Being approved for a balance transfer card is by no means guaranteed. In theory, those with the best credit ratings are the most likely to be approved for a card as they will have a history of paying off debt on time and have a stable income. It is more probable that those with poor credit ratings will be rejected. Those who are refused should bear in mind that applying for a number of other balance transfer cards in a short space of time will worsen their credit rating. Many card providers will not allow you to transfer balances from another of its own products, so you should identify the best deal for you outside of your existing providers before making an application. Some providers meanwhile may only accept your application if you already hold a current account with them. There are other restrictions you will also have to satisfy, such as having a minimum level of income (generally £10,000- £20,000 ). And to take advantage of introductory 0 per cent offers, you may have to transfer your balance within a specified time-frame. Most credit card providers increase handling fees after the first 60 or 90 days.

Completely 'free' balance transfer deals

For those confident they can pay off their credit card debts in a shorter time frame getting a balance transfer card with a lower handling fee, but lower interest-free period, can limit the extra charges on your debt.

Competition is tight though and there are a handful offering no handling fees at all with 0 per cent promotions just over two years.

Market leader:

Santander's Everyday credit card is the top pick in this category, offering 27 months 0 per cent interest with no handling fees. You also get 3 months free purchases.

Unlike some rivals there is no 30 or 90 restriction on when the transfer is made in order to qualify for the low handling fees, it must just be withing the 0 per cent interest promotion. There standard interest rate is 18.9 per cent.

Sainsbury's Bank has a 26-month balance transfer credit card with no handling fees and 0 per cent interest on transfers and spending within the first three months. It comes with an APR of 20.9 per cent. It currently also offers up to 7,500 bonus Nectar points on spending in your first two months

Barclaycard gives you 22 months 0 per cent interest on its no-fee balance transfer fee card. You will pay an initial fee of 2 per cent when shifting debt to the card, but if you do this within the first two months you get a full refund and the interest-free term. After that it charges a standard rate of 19.9 per cent. It currently also offers £20 cashback when you transfer a balance of £2,000 or more within 60 days of opening your account.

Best low rate balance transfer credit cards

People who have racked up substantial credit card debt which is unlikely to be paid off within two years can plump for cards which offer lower rates of interest.

However, those who are considering this option should seek advice as to whether there might be a better deal to be a had consolidating such debts into a loan, particularly with borrowing rates at record lows at the moment.

The Tesco Bank Low APR Credit Card charges the lowest long-term rate at 5.9 per cent APR.

It comes with no handing fees on balance transfers if you shift debt to the card within the first 30 days. After that you will be charged 3 per cent.

Read more about the best low-rate credit cards in our round up here

====== 560 ========

PICK THE BEST (AND CHEAPEST) INVESTMENT ISA PLATFORM

The rise of DIY investing has delivered a revolution in the way investors buy shares, investment trusts and funds - offering them huge savings and a big boost to their returns through online brokers.

Not so long ago, investing typically required a stockbroker or financial adviser and the willingness to hand over a big chunk of commission.

Now armed with a computer - or in some cases even just a smartphone - investors can use a DIY investing platform or online broker and the wealth of research at their fingertips to hopefully build their fortune.

But picking the right DIY platform is crucial and the array of different options has left many investors scratching their heads.

We explain how to decide on a DIY investment platform to invest in the full range of options: from shares, funds and investment trusts, to ETFs and direct retail corporate bonds.

Check the table for the brief details and read our full round-up of each platform's features and who they could be good for below. Also read Simon Lambert's column on exit fees and how he got a £750 bill.

Why does an Isa or investing platform matter?

The right Isa wrapper or investing account has the power to boost your investments, helping you to build a portfolio and limiting how your hard-won returns are eaten into by fees.

DIY investing platforms act as a place to buy, sell and hold all your investments and a tax-efficient wrapper around them if you choose to invest in an Isa.

When weighing up the right one for you, it's important to to look at the service that it offers, along with administration charges and dealing fees, plus any other extra costs.

We highlight Isa and non-Isa charges, but don't forget that investing in an Isa makes sense, as it should protect your hopefully growing investments from as much tax as possible.

The good news is that costs are consistently being trimmed and being made more transparent.

Something that complicates picking a platform is that DIY investors can hold a variety of assets in their Isa - not just one fund or a handful of them.

Charges vary for those Isa investors choosing to hold investment trusts, ETFs, shares and directly traded corporate bonds, alongside traditional managed funds in the form of OEICs and unit trusts.

Bearing all of this in mind we've busted the charges of what we consider some of the best (and cheapest) DIY investing platforms. We would advise considering the points below first.

Flat fee vs percentage charge DIY investing platform prices can be chiefly be split into two camps. Some charge a flat administration charge, while others charge a percentage of investors' holdings. The former tend to always charge for buying and selling investment funds, while the latter may bundle this cost in and offer free fund dealing. All charge for buying and selling shares, investment trusts and other products that are not funds, but the dealing fees vary from as low as £5 to about £12. If you are a buy and hold investor putting away a large sum of money then you may benefit from a flat fee rather than percentage-based charging, which can mount up to a hefty amount. But if you plan on buying and selling regularly watch our for dealing charges, as these can also add up substantially and easily erode the gain from a flat fee. Lower charges for regular monthly investing can substantially cut costs.

Five things to consider when picking a platform

1. Cheapest is not always best: You need to think about a combination of price and service - it is worth paying for quality but make sure you are actually getting that.

2. What will you invest in: Different dealing fees for shares, investment trusts and funds mean you need to think about how you will invest and tailor your choice accordingly.

3. Tools and information: What level of useful portfolio building tools and information does a platform offer?

4. Overall charges: Don't just look at the admin fee or dealing charges. You need to combine both to get a true cost, along with costs such as dividend reinvestment and regular dealing charges. A low admin fee might look good but if you are an active investor who buys and sells a lot, then dealing charges will soon rack up and send costs soaring.

5. Extra fees: Check for regular monthly investing discounts, dividend reinvestment fees, transfer charges and other elements

Compare the best DIY investing platform for you

Below we publish our view on the best DIY investing platforms and explain who they are good for and why we have picked them.

We have also created a new tool to help you compare the best DIY investing platforms and online brokers with our partner BrokerCompare.

You can select how you want to invest, whether in a general account, Isa, Sipp or combination of these, and how much you will invest and how often you are likely to buy and sell funds and shares.

It will then do the calculations to show you which DIY investing platforms and online brokers look like the best deal for you. Try it now and if you have any feedback on it, please email editor@thisismoney.co.uk.

How we choose the best DIY investing platforms

We have focused on two vital aspects, cost and quality. This is not a collection of all of the absolute cheapest platforms, these are some we think stand out and that also compete keenly on price.

All discount initial fund charges down to zero in most cases. Some funds can still carry an initial charge though - platforms should provide you with a list to check.



We have picked DIY Isa platforms to suit different investors and focus on those that offer a choice of investments - not just funds. Each one will be better for some investors than others and you should choose depending on your needs. Remember there are plenty of others available too.

This list is in no particular order.

Hargreaves Lansdown is the big gun of DIY investing. The website is packed with information from its advisers and analysts, the shares and fund data is comprehensive and there is a very handy app.

Investors pay a 0.45 per cent fee on their total fund investments up to £250,000; 0.25 per cent to £1m, 0.1 per cent to £2m and nothing above that. Shares and investment trusts also incur a 0.45 per cent charge on the entire holding, capped at £45.

Hargreaves has negotiated some reduced annual management charges from fund managers.

Fund dealing is free. Share, investment trust, corporate bond and ETF dealing costs £11.95 per trade. If you trade more than 10 times per month share-dealing costs step down. Regular monthly share and some investment trust investing is £1.50, dividend reinvesting is 1 per cent, with a £1 minimum charge and £10 maximum.

Hargreaves has its very influential Wealth 150, a range of Master Portfolios, and its Portfolio+ service to make investing progressively easier and more hands off

Standard non-Isa dealing: Hargreaves' non-Isa Vantage account carries the same charges except for removing the fee for holding shares and trusts.

Who is it good for? Those looking for an advice-rich service that is price-competitive but not the cheapest around. It does come with lots of bells and whistles, including a very good app and portfolios for easy investing .

Our tests found Hargreaves platform easy and intuitive to use and its newly revised app is good.

It offers a proven popular service weighted towards funds but with access to investment trusts, ETFs, shares and the corporate bond market under one roof. [ More details on Hargeaves Lansdown ]

Interactive Investor customers has slightly changed its pricing and investors must pay an admin fee of £22.50 per quarter, adding up to £90 per year, BUT you can get that back in free trades.

Standard charges are £10 to buy or sell funds, shares, investment trusts or ETFs, or £1 for regular monthly investing.

The rebated admin fee works out at just over two free trades, or regular investing up to that value at £1 each time. So invest into five funds or trusts per month, at £1 each = £5 x 12 months = £60 and you are within your £90 allowance.

Dividend reinvestment is now also £1. Interactive has a selection of model portfolios for easy investing that cost just £10 each to set up.

Who is it good for? Interactive Investor's pricing structure is good if you play it right, getting all of your admin fee back in free trades. It is definitely worth a look for those with larger sums to invest.

It has upset some customers with the shift to a new platform, but our tests found the platform to be easy to read and use.

It is easy to use and offers a wide range of investments along with solid research and is good for those regularly investing. The model portfolios on offer are well researched and a cheap and easy way to invest. [More details on Interactive Investor]

Fidelity

Fidelity is one of the big investing names and has a platform packed with useful information, guides, market commentary and videos.

A change to its accounts a few years ago removed share-dealing but kept a list of investment trusts and ETFs. Share dealing is now in the process of being reintroduced.

Unfortunately, however, this has involved removing the ability to buy investment trusts and ETFs within an Isa or trading account and pay just 0.1 per cent commissions. Instead a flat £10 fee is being brought in.

The 0.1 per cent trust and ETF dealing remains for Sipps.

Investing in funds carries a 0.35 per cent charge on investments up to £250,000 and 0.20 per cent above that and 0 per cent above £1million.

However, if you are investing small amounts the charging structure is slightly different. Fidelity charges a flat £45 on amounts up to £7,500 before the 0.35 per cent rate kicks in.

There are no fund dealing charges for buying and selling.

Who is it good for? Fidelity offers very useful service. It is one of the big guns, has model portfolios, tools to help you decide how to invest and a wealth of information on offer.

Our tests found the main site easy to read and navigate, but the investment platform itself more fiddly to use.

The limited ability to buy funds and shares in the same Isa will be a major drawback for many DIY investors.

One major attraction was the cheap 0.1 per cent dealing for ETFs and investment trusts, but for all accounts other than Sipps this has now been replaced with a £10 fee. [More details on Fidelity]

IG

Stockbroking platform IG offers an affordable option for those ditching funds and focusing on shares and exchange traded funds, or who would like to use its Smart Portfolio service to build their investments.

The provider offers a range of complex products such as spread betting or forex, but you can also build a share or exchange traded portfolio and put it in an Isa.

Share dealing is £8 per trade but frequent traders pay just £5 by placing ten share transactions.

It now charges £96 per year, or £24 per quarter, which is waived if three trades are made in that period or £15,000-plus is held in its Smart Portfolio.

There are no annual administration platform fees so your only costs would be dealing charges and any management fees on ETFs.

Who is it good for? This is a low-cost way to build an ETF and share portfolio as long as you are unlikely to want to buy funds.

If you make three trades a quarter or hold more than £15,000 in the Smart Portfolio service, IG doesn't charge any administration fees or charges to hold an Isa.

Share-dealing is reasonable value at £8. [More details on IG]

Alliance Trust investors pay £10 per month, which works out at £120 per year.

Investors get four online trades per year included. It charges a flat £9.99 per trade for buying funds, shares, ETFs and investment trusts. However, doing this as regular monthly online direct debit investing slashes the charge to £1.50 per deal, while dividend reinvestment costs £5.

It offers access to the full run of investment trusts, shares, ETFs and direct bonds available. Investors using it can access research and tools from Morningstar with their portfolio.

Standard non-Isa dealing: Charges are the same for standard share dealing, including the administration fee.

Who is it good for? Buy-and-hold investors with large sums invested could do well here as there is a flat fee rather than a percentage charge, however, they need to weigh up the dealing costs, as Alliance Trust charges £9.99 to buy and sell funds.

Investors can buy trusts, shares, corporate bonds and ETFs and it is good for monthly regular investors in these too, although dividend reinvestment is pricey. [More details on Alliance Trust Savings].

The Share Centre - Self-Select Isa

The Share Centre offers investors a full DIY choice in its Self Select Stocks and Shares Isa. It allows investors to hold funds, investment trusts, shares, ETFs and corporate bonds, but charges a monthly fee of £4.80 (£4 + VAT) so £57.60 per year.

Fund, share, ETF, investment trust and corporate bond dealing costs 1 per cent (£7.50 min). Alternatively, if you pay £24 a quarter, there is a flat £7.50 buying and selling charge with its trader option.

Only one live Isa at a time Remember, you can only pay new money into one Isa wrapper each year, but you can keep an old tax year's Isa wrapper open (with no new payments into it) and open a new tax year one, or transfer all your holdings onto the same platform. Beware exit charges typically apply.

Regular monthly investing in funds shares, ETFs, trusts and bonds costs 0.5 per cent (minimum £1).

The Share Centre offers cost-effective share dividend reinvestment into individual stocks, trusts and ETFs at 0.5 per cent (min £1).

Standard non-Isa dealing: The full DIY Self Select dealing account outside of an Isa carries a £1.80 per month admin fee (£1.50 plus VAT) so £21.60 per year and the same trading fees.

Who is it good for? The Share Centre's flat administration fee makes it a good option for those with more than modest sums - anyone with with just over £12,500 invested will pay less annually here than at Hargreaves Lansdown. That needs to be weighed up against fund dealing charges, however, these could soon rack up if you do much buying and selling.

For those with large sums invested it could prove good value compared to percentage-based charges even when dealing fees are taken into account.

It's good for stock pickers who reinvest dividend shares, trusts or ETFs and investors looking for a variety of investments, with some good analysis, tips and advice. [More details on Share Centre]

iWeb run by Halifax sharedealing offers a competitively priced service. Its stocks and shares Isa offers the chance to invest across shares, investment trusts, funds and ETFs, with a big one-off set-up charge but then no annual or quarterly admin charge beyond that.

That set-up fee was £200 but has been cut to £25. It costs just £5 to buy or sell funds, shares, investment trusts or ETFs. Dividend reinvestment is 2% with a £5 maximum charge.

Standard non-Isa dealing: Charges are the same

Who is it good for? iWeb is keenly priced for those looking to regularly buy investment trusts, shares or ETFs thanks to its low £5 dealing fee and the new set-up fee of just £25 is good value. Bear in mind that you do need to pay for fund-dealing here. [ More details on iWeb ]

Bestinvest Isa and standard investors pay annual charge of 0.40 per cent a year on their portfolios up to £250,000, and 0.2 per cent above that to £1million. No extra charges are added above £1m.

Bestinvest has no dealing charges for funds and standard share and investment trust dealing is decent value £7.50.

Unfortunately, however, there are no reduced regular monthly investing charges for shares and trusts, nor is there cheap dividend reinvesting.

In an unusual step those who invest through a Sipp, as self invested personal pensions are known, see their charges cut to 0.3 per cent and 0.2 per cent, respectively.

BestInvest offers a selection of model portfolio funds, rated in an investing risk-style.

Standard non-Isa dealing: Charges are the same.

Who is it good for? BestInvest is a good option for fund investors looking to take advantage of its research and lack of dealing charges.

Those buying shares, investment trusts and ETFs benefit from a £7.50 dealing fee, which is lower than most. The ready-made portfolios offer an easy hands-off route into investing at a reasonable cost.

It's also an interesting offer if you have a small Sipp and want to manage all your investments under one roof, as the Sipp charge is competitive. [More details on BestInvest].

AJ Bell Youinvest has a 0.25 per cent annual administration charge. However, for non-fund holdings in Isas, such as investment trusts, shares and ETFs, this is capped at £7.50 per quarter. In a Sipp the cap is £25 per quarter.

For fund holdings it steps down to 0.1 per cent from £250,000 to £1million, 0.05 per cent to £2million and then nothing above that.

Fund dealing costs have been cut and will now set you back £1.50, previously £4.95. Share, ETF and investment trust dealing is £9.95 - or £4.95 if you have traded ten times in the previous month.

Regular investing costs £1.50 into funds, FTSE 350 shares and a limited range of investment trusts.

Who is it good for? Youinvest scores with a low percentage admin charge that is also capped for shares, trusts and ETFs. It does have fund dealing charges, but a cut down to £1.50 makes these considerably more competitive than before.

There is cost effective regular monthly investing in funds, shares and selected investment trusts. There is no cheap dividend reinvestment. [More details on Youinvest]

The broker's online platform Charles Stanley Direct platform has a low 0.25 per cent annual charge on fund holdings.

Changes arriving on 1 November 2016 will see this cut to 0.2 per cent between £250,000 and £500,000, 0.15 per cent to £1million and 0.05% to £2million.

There is also a 0.25 per cent charge on investment trust or share holdings, with a minimum of £24 and maximum of £240 per year. This is removed monthly if you trade at least once in that month.

A Sipp costs £100 plus VAT per year but this fee is removed if you have more than £30,000 across all the broker's online platform services.

Fund dealing is free, but investment trust and share dealing will cost £11.50 and there is no regular investing option for this.

Investors holding individual bonds and overseas shares must pay £30 per year per holding.



Who is it good for? Active fund investors get a good deal at Charles Stanley with a low annual fee and no buying or selling charges. This is also a decent Sipp option for those with more than £30,000, who can then avoid the extra fee for pensions.

Those buying and holding investment trusts and shares can also do well if they trade each month and lose the platform fee, but that needs to be weighed up against £11.50 dealing charges adding up and the lack of a cut-price regular monthly investing option. [More details on Charles Stanley Direct]

Vanguard

US giant Vanguard has set up a UK investing platform but you can only buy its funds.

It is cheap with a 0.15% per year fee and has no costs for buying and selling. You can use this to buy Vanguard's simple and cheap passive funds, its active range, or its all in one LifeStrategy funds that invest in shares and bonds around the world.

Who is it good for? If you are looking for a simple and low cost investment platform, Vanguard is a good choice. You only get its funds but the firm's trackers and ETFs are among the best in the business - this is a particularly good option for those looking to start out with LifeStrategy funds.

Cavendish Online

Cavendish Online is a funds only DIY investing platform and stands out with its very low percentage charges.

Investors pay just 0.25 per cent as a fee for using the platform and no dealing fees, initial charges, or exit fees if they decide to leave.

Cavendish has long been a low-cost investing option without some of the frills of its rivals. It offers a selection of three model portfolios graded by risk.

Who is it good for? This is cheap investing but it is only for buying funds, you can't add any shares, investment trusts or bonds too. This is a low-cost option for those who want to take charges to the bone and are happy to forgo the tools, tips and content others offer.

[More details on Cavendish]

SOME FINAL THOUGHTS ON DIY INVESTING PLATFORMS Before you make a final decision, think about the points above on picking the best platform, what you want to invest in: funds, ETFs, investment trusts etc, and how you want to do so: lump sum, buy-and-hold, regular investing or trading. Don't forget that there is a delicate balancing act between administration fees and dealing charges. Do your own research, sit down and work out how the DIY investing platforms you favour compare against each other. This homework will be worth it in the long run. If you think you have a better investing DIY investing platform suggestion please tell us in reader comments below

Locked in: Watch out for transfer charges and other fees from investing platforms, as well as dealing and admin charges.

====== 561 ========

RUFFER PROFITED IN 2008 CRASH: WHERE IS IT INVESTING NOW?

Video: Ruffer profited in 2008 crash: Where is it investing now?

Ruffer investment company says ‘we try not to lose money in any 12 month period, and to grow the value of our investors’ wealth over the long haul.’ How does it do that? We speak to co-manager Duncan MacInnes.

====== 562 ========

WAS THE STOCK MARKET SELL-OFF OVERDONE?

Video: Was the stock market sell-off overdone?

Investors suffered in October with the FTSE All Share among the global markets driven down, but was the sell-off overdone and are people too pessimistic on the prospects for UK shares?

====== 563 ========

WHAT THE BUDGET 2018 MEANS FOR YOU

Video: What the Budget 2018 means for you

This is Money editor Simon Lambert runs through the key points of the Budget from an income tax cut next April to money for old roads and a boost for small retailers

====== 564 ========

VIDEO: MCLAREN INTRODUCES ITS NEW £2.1MILLION 3-SEAT SPEEDTAIL IN

Video: McLaren introduce its new £2.1million 3-seat Speedtail in

McLaren Automobile introduced it's brand new model the 3-seat Speedtail. The promo video reveals the new car with a top speed of 250mph. Just 106 examples of the McLaren Speedtail will be built, costing £1.75million...

====== 565 ========

SHARES HIT HARDEST IN THE STOCK MARKET SLUMP

Video: Shares hit hardest in the stock market slump

While the FTSE fell 10 per cent from its peak, some popular shares dropped by much more. Simon Lambert, Richard Hunter and Nick Batsford take a look.

====== 566 ========

BANK OF DAVE AIMS TO RAISE UP TO £7M FROM SMALL INVESTORS

Video: Bank of Dave aims to raise up to £7m from small investors

Fans of popular entrepreneur Dave Fishwick can today buy a slice in his banking venture via crowdfunding website Seedrs. He is aiming to raise up to £7million in the funding round.

====== 567 ========

HOW TO INVEST IN THE COMPANIES IMPROVING OUR ENVIRONMENT

Video: How to invest in the companies improving our environment

A reverse vending machine that recycles plastics, an alternative to cotton better for the environment, and clever software to help farmers grow more with less. Jon Forster explains the fascinating places Impax...

====== 568 ========

WILL OIL SHARES RISE AS THE PRICE OF A BARREL CLIMBS?

Video: Will oil shares rise as the price of a barrel climbs?

The oil price has risen sharply to $80 after hitting lows of around $30 a barrel in 2016. At that time oil companies slashed costs, so will they now profit?

====== 569 ========

VIDEO: JAGUAR DESIGNS ELECTRIC CAR TO PROTECT VULNERABLE PEDESTRIANS

Video: Jaguar's electric car sound to protect pedestrians

Jaguar has designed a unique Audible Vehicle Alert System to protect vulnerable pedestrians. The I-PACE’s sound was tested by members of Guide Dogs for the Blind as part of the testing undertaken by the luxury...

====== 570 ========

MARK MOBIUS: EMERGING MARKETS ARE STILL THE BEST OPPORTUNITY

Video: Mark Mobius: Emerging markets are still the best opportunity

Emerging and frontier markets represent the best opportunity for investors to profit over the next 20 years, according to Dr Mark Mobius. The veteran emerging markets investor, joins us on the Investing Show to...

====== 571 ========

WILL THE STOCK MARKET END 2018 UP? INVESTING SHOW

Video: Will the UK stock market end 2018 up? The Investing Show

The FTSE 100 index has hit record highs this year but is now down on where it started 2018. The next few months will define whether this year was a good one. We take a look at whether the bull market has further to...

====== 572 ========

VIDEO: JAGUAR I-PACE GOES FROM LONDON TO BRUSSELS WITH NO NEED TO CHARGE UP

Video: Jaguar I-Pace goes from London to Brussels with no need to charge up

Jaguar takes the electric I-Pace on a 229 mile trip from London to Brussels – including driving through the Channel Tunnel - without having to charge up.

====== 573 ========

HOW TO INVEST AROUND THE WORLD AND TRY TO DODGE CRASHES

Video: How to invest around the world and try to dodge crashes

Andrew Craig, the author of How to own the world: A plain English guide to thinking globally and investing wisely joins us on the latest Investing Show to share his thoughts.

====== 574 ========

VIDEO: BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: WHAT IS A PENSION?

Video: Big Money Questions: What is a pension?

What is a pension? On this episode of the Big Money Questions, Aegon pension director Steven Cameron looks at what pensions are, why they can mean free money, how much you need and if you could really lose it all if...

====== 575 ========

SHOULD INVESTORS BE WORRIED BY A TRADE WAR?

Video: Should investors be worried by a trade war?

The threat of a trade war between the US and China has rattled investors, but how worried do they need to be? Simon Lambert and Richard Hunter discuss it.

====== 576 ========

HOW IMPACT INVESTING CAN PROFIT FROM SHAPING OUR FUTURE

Video: How impact investing can profit from shaping our future

Could caring about where you invest make you more money? That could be the case for those who back impact investing. Tim Crockford, of Hermes Impact Opportunities fund, explains the concept and how it invests in the...

====== 577 ========

VIDEO: ASTON MARTIN SHOWCASE THE EPIC DBS SUPERLEGGERA

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 578 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: WHAT'S THE BEST WAY TO GIVE TO CHARITY?

Video: Big Money Questions: What's the best way to give to charity?

What's the best way to give to charity to ensure your cash is making a difference? Director of Giving Evidence Caroline Fiennes explains.

====== 579 ========

HAS ENGLAND'S WORLD CUP RUN REALLY BOOSTED THE ECONOMY?

Video: Has England's World Cup run really boosted the economy?

England's run to the World Cup semi-finals saw the team do much better than expected. Already it is being claimed that this will have helped the economy, as fans spent more. Can this be true?

====== 580 ========

HOW TO FIND THE BEST COMPANY SHARES: INVESTING SHOW:

Video: Investing Show: How to find the best companies to invest in

Look for companies that have found their niche and are profiting from that. This is the view of David Miller, investment director at Quilter Cheviot, a committed stock-picker who believes buying individual company...

====== 581 ========

WHY ARE INVESTORS WORRIED ABOUT A TRADE WAR?

Video: Why are investors worried about a trade war?

What is the problem with protectionist tariffs, why are investors worried and how big of a threat is a trade war to portfolios? Simon Lambert, Richard Hunter and Nick Batsford, of Core London, discuss it.

====== 582 ========

WHAT IS HAPPENING TO HOUSE PRICES AND THE PROPERTY MARKET

Video: What is happening to house prices and the property market

The property market is slowing and house price inflation has eased back but is this just being driven by London and the commuter belt? Andrew Montlake, of Coreco, joins the Investing Show to explain what is...

====== 583 ========

HOW DOES RBS STACK UP AGAINST RIVAL BANK SHARES?

Video: How does RBS stack up against rival bank shares?

A landmark sale of RBS shares took place this week, as the UK sold down some of its stake. Why did the Government sell, will more be sold and how does RBS stack up against other bank shares? Richard Hunter joins...

====== 584 ========

WHAT IS BEHIND THE FTSE 100'S SUDDEN SHARP RISE?

Video: What is behind the FTSE 100's sudden sharp rise?

The FTSE 100 has staged a remarkable rally since the end of March, rising 900 points to hit a record high. Why has it suddenly risen? Simon Lambert, Richard Hunter and Nick Batsford take a look.

====== 585 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: HOW TO INVEST TO HELP THE ENVIRONMENT

Video: Big Money Questions: How to invest to help the environment

What are environmental markets and how can you invest to help the transition towards sustainable living? Jon Forster of Impax Environmental Markets explains.

====== 586 ========

WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT GLOBAL FUNDS: INVESTING SHOW

Video: Investing Show: What you need to know about global funds

A global fund is often recommended as the cornerstone of an investment portfolio, but what do they do and how do they differ? In this episode of the Investing Show we speak to get global fund manager Jake Robbins to...

====== 587 ========

MARK CARNEY: ECONOMIC GROWTH DOWN TO 1.4% BUT INTEREST RATES ON HOLD

Video: Mark Carney: Economic growth down to 1.4% but interest rates on hold

Governor of the Bank of England Mark Carney declared today that the UK's economic growth projection was down to 1.4% from predicted 1.8% but interest rates will hold at 0.5%.

====== 588 ========

VIDEO: NEW ROLLS-ROYCE CULLINAN INCLUDES FOLD OUT SEATS FROM THE BOOT

Video: New Rolls-Royce Cullinan includes fold out seats from the boot

The iconic British marque says its first purpose-built sports utility vehicle is inspired by Lawrence of Arabia's military-readied Roller - although it has undoubtedly been designed with the super-rich in mind.

====== 589 ========

RORY SUTHERLAND ON HOW TO GET THE MOST ENJOYMENT FROM MONEY

Video: Rory Sutherland on how to get the most enjoyment from money

It's easy to think of the ways your life would be happier with more money, but what about ways to bring you greater enjoyment from the money you do have? Ogilvy vice chairman and ad man Rory Sutherland shares his...

====== 590 ========

VIDEO: TAKE A LOOK INSIDE THE CLASSIC FORD SIERRA COSWORTH RS500 CAR

Video: Take a look inside the classic Ford Sierra Cosworth RS500 car

Take a look inside the classic Ford Sierra Cosworth RS500 car. This car is being sold by KGF Classic Cars. This record is being challenged by the first one of these ever made, being sold for £120,000 upwards.

====== 591 ========

WHY DO SAINSBURY'S AND ASDA WANT TO MERGE AND WILL IT WORK?

Video: Why do Sainsbury's and Asda want to merge and will it work?

Sainsbury's and Asda have revealed their plan to merge, but what is in it for the supermarkets, customers and investors? We take a look on the Investing Show.

====== 592 ========

MERCEDES-BENZ TEASES ITS NEW ULTIMATE LUXURY SUV CONCEPT

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 593 ========

INVESTING SHOW: WHAT'S GONE WRONG WITH THE FANG STOCKS?

Video: Investing Show: What's gone wrong with the Fang stocks?

Once they could do no wrong but now investors are worried by the Fang stocks, Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google. Simon Lambert, Richard Hunter and Nick Batsford look at why and what that means for UK...

====== 594 ========

WHEN IS A GOOD TIME TO START INVESTING?

Video: When is a good time to start investing?

Investing allows you to put your money to work to earn better returns, but when is a good time to start? Shaun Port, chief investment officer at Nutmeg, explains why investing works, how to get started easily, and...

====== 595 ========

WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT PEER TO PEER AND INNOVATIVE ISAS

Video: What you need to know about peer to peer and innovative Isas

Stewart Cazier, of alternative lending platform Thincats, explains what investors need to know about peer to peer, crowdfunding and Innovative Finance Isas on the Investing Show.

====== 596 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: WHAT IS AN ETF?

Video: Big Money Questions: What is an ETF?

On this episode of the Big Money Questions, Jason Xavier at Franklin Templeton explains what ETFs are, what they're good for and who makes them.

====== 597 ========

HOW TO INVEST IN RETIREMENT: THE INVESTING SHOW LIVE

Video: How to invest in retirement: The Investing Show Live

Justin Urquhart Stewart and Matthew Yeates, of Seven Investment Management, join This is Money's Simon Lambert for an Investing Show Live discussion on how to invest in retirement.

====== 598 ========

VIDEO: ASTON MARTIN SHOWCASE THE NEW VANTAGE WITH A TOP SPEED OF 195MPH

Video: Aston Martin showcase the new Vantage with a top speed of 195mph

The Aston Martin Vantage is priced from £120,900. Under the bonnet is a 510 horsepower 4.0-litre twin-turbo V8 engine, which can accelerate from 0 to 60mph in just 3.5 secs with a top speed of 195mph

====== 599 ========

CAN THE GOOD TIMES RETURN FOR INVESTORS? INVESTING SHOW LIVE

Video: Can the good times return for investors? Investing Show Live

Investors have had a nervous start to the year, after a long-awaited correction finally arrived and markets have turned more volatile. Is this the end of the good times for investors or can they continue? We take a...

====== 600 ========

WILL STOCK MARKETS START TO RISE AGAIN?

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 601 ========

VIDEO: RAY MASSEY TAKES RANGE ROVER NEW PLUG-IN HYBRID PHEV FOR A SPIN

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 602 ========

TIPS TO INVEST YOUR STOCKS AND SHARES ISA

Video: Tips to invest your Isa - and why it is worth doing

Now is the time when investors rush to fill up their Isas before the tax year ends in April. We get Catriona Reed, of Seven IM's, tips for what they should think about.

====== 603 ========

VIDEO: LAND ROVER RACES FERRARI THROUGH THE 99-TURNS OF THE TIANMEN ROAD

Video: Range Rover races through the 99-turns of the Tianmen Road

Can a Range Rover Sport SVR beat a record set in a Ferrari? Watch as Le Mans 24H winner Ho-Pin Tung takes our 575PS performance SUV on the hunt to set a new benchmark on the 99 turns of the Tianmen Road in China.

====== 604 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: WHAT IS DIVERSIFYING?

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 605 ========

VIDEO: TAKE A LOOK AT THE BRAND NEW JAGUAR I-PACE PROTOTYPE

Video: Take a look at the brand new Jaguar I-Pace prototype

Take a look at the brand new Jaguar I-Pace prototype at the 2018 Geneva Motor Show.

====== 606 ========

THE SHARES THAT SHOULD DO WELL WITH HIGHER INFLATION

Video: The shares that should do well with higher inflation

Inflation is tipped to be higher in the year or so to come by everyone from the economists to the Bank of England, so what are the shares that should do well from this?

====== 607 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: DOES TAX HAVE TO BE SO COMPLICATED?

Video: Big Money Questions: Does tax have to be so complicated?

On this episode of the Big Money Questions, Office for Tax Simplification boss Angela Knight discusses if tax has to be so complicated, what can go and if it would make much difference to households and small...

====== 608 ========

INVESTING SHOW: WHY NOW IS A GOOD TIME TO INVEST IN VIETNAM

Video: Investing Show: Why now is a good time to invest in Vietnam

Vietnam is among the best growth stories of the coming decades in Asia, says Baillie Gifford Pacific Horizon trust manager Roddy Snell. He tells Simon Lambert and Richard Hunter why.

====== 609 ========

VIDEO: BENTLEY'S BRAND NEW LUXURY BENTAYAGA V8 SUV IS DRIVEN ON ICE

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 610 ========

HOW TO INVEST IN BIOTECH: CARL HARALD JANSON EXPLAINS

Video: How to invest in biotech: A top fund manager explains

Biotechnology is an exciting industry, where technology creates medicine tailored to individuals. As the West's populations age, this will become even more important. We interview Carl Harald Janson, manager of...

====== 611 ========

UNDERCOVER: SEMINAR ON THE ¿SECRETS¿ TO INVESTING IN BITCOIN

Video: Undercover: Seminar on the 'secrets' to investing in Bitcoin

Daily Mail reporter goes undercover at a 'free seminar' that promises to teach the secrets to investing in Bitcoin and other virtual currencies.

====== 612 ========

VIDEO: JAGUAR CREATE 25 NEW D-TYPE RACERS 60 YEARS AFTER PRODUCTION

Video: Jaguar create 25 new D-Type racers 60 years after production

Jaguar Classic have created 25 new 1950's D-type racers 60 years after the original car went out of production, with each car costing up to £1million

====== 613 ========

CAN EMERGING MARKETS CONTINUE TO CLIMB? WE ASK A TOP MANAGER

Video: Can emerging markets continue to climb? We ask a top manager

Emerging markets have not been regarded as a hot ticket for some time, but those who did invest have been richly rewarded. Can that continue? We ask Gary Greenberg, of Hermes Global Emerging Markets, the top fund in...

====== 614 ========

THE BEST PLACES TO INVEST IN 2018?

Video: Where are the best places to invest in 2018?

Last year was a good one for investors and 2018 has started promisingly, but should we beware being overly optimistic? Ben Kumar, of 7IM, discusses the best places to invest for the year ahead with Simon Lambert and...

====== 615 ========

WHY HAS THE FTSE HIT RECORD HIGHS AND CAN THEY CONTINUE?

Video: Why has the FTSE hit record highs and can they continue?

The FTSE 100 started 2018 with a series of record highs. We look at why the stock market has risen and whether it can continue to do so.

====== 616 ========

VIDEO: A GUIDE TO HELP YOU DECIDE WHETHER TO BUY A DIESEL OR PETROL CAR

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 617 ========

VIDEO: EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT CRYPTOCURRENCY BITCOIN

Video: Everything you need to know about cryptocurrency Bitcoin

A motions graphics explainer of what the payment system Bitcoin is, and how it can be used online

====== 618 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS:HOW CAN YOU GAIN WEALTH?ROB MOORE'S TIPS

Video: Big Money Questions:How can you gain wealth?Rob Moore's tips

How can you up your income so that you have the money you need for the lifestyle you want? Millionaire and entrepreneur Rob Moore shares his tips - and those he has gleaned from other successful entrepreneurs.

====== 619 ========

VIDEO: LAND ROVER UNVEIL 70TH EDITION OF IT'S FAMED DEFENDER MODEL

Video: Land Rover unveil 70th edition of it's famed Defender model

The car maker unveils its 70th edition of it's famed defender series as it showcases it's capabilities across a variety of terrain

====== 620 ========

TIPS TO PROFIT FROM VALUE INVESTING FROM ALEX WRIGHT

Video: How to find cheap shares, with value investor Alex Wright

As manager of Fidelity Special Situations and Special Values, Alex Wright's job is to hunt for bargain shares to deliver profits for investors. We get his value investing tips on the Investing Show and what he...

====== 621 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: WHAT IS A BANK?

Video: Big Money Questions: What is a bank?

On this episode of the Big Money Questions show Metro and Atom Bank founder Anthony Thomson explains what a bank is, how to set one up and how they might look in ten year's time.

====== 622 ========

INVESTING SHOW: WHAT WILL 2018 BRING FOR UK INVESTORS?

Video: Investing Show: What will 2018 bring for UK investors?

On this episode of the Investing Show, Simon Lambert, Richard Hunter and Nick Batsford look forward to what 2018 could hold for investors. (December 2017)

====== 623 ========

ROAD TESTING THE RENAULT ALPINE A110 SPORTS CAR

Video: Road testing the Renault Alpine A110 sports car

The Renault Alpine A110 sports car can be seen traversing various forms of terrain as it showcases it's ability to take corners and move at speed

====== 624 ========

BUY BANKS, NOT BEER: HOW TO INVEST FOR HIGHER INFLATION

Video: Buy banks, not beer: How to invest for higher inflation

Things are looking up in Europe, but many investors are still pricing in low inflation and defensive shares are riding high. Better opportunities lie elsewhere believes Schroders European Equities fund manager James...

====== 625 ========

YOU CAN'T BEAT THE MARKET, SO BE A PASSIVE INVESTOR, SAYS LARS KROIJER

Video: Lars Kroijer: You can't beat the market, so invest passively

Lars Kroijer, the author of Investing Demystified, explains why despite being a successful hedge fund manager he believes trying to beat the market is a mistake and a global tracker fund and bond portfolio is a...

====== 626 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS:WILL AI BE MORE INTELLIGENT THAN HUMANS?

Video: Big Money Questions:Will AI be more intelligent than humans?

In this episode of the Big Money Questions, Max Tegmark says that it won't be long before AI is more intelligent than humans and that we need to prepare now and decide how we want our future to look.

====== 627 ========

DIVIDEND HERO BRUNNER MANAGER'S TIPS TO INVEST FOR INCOME AND GROWTH

Video: Dividend hero manager's tips to invest for income and growth

Brunner is a dividend hero - having raised its payout for 45 years in a row - but success is not just about hunting for income, says manager Lucy MacDonald, you also need growth. She explains why and how good...

====== 628 ========

A BUFFETTOLOGIST’S GUIDE TO FINDING THE BEST SHARES: KEITH ASHWORTH-LORD

Video: How to invest like Warren Buffett in the UK

What would happen if you applied Warren Buffett's school of investing to a UK investment fund? That’s what the UK Buffettology fund has done and manager Keith Ashworth-Lord has made it deliver - up 148% in five...

====== 629 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS:WILL ECONOMISTS FORESEE THE NEXT CRISIS?

Video: Big Money Questions:Will economists foresee the next crisis?

Will economists see the next financial crisis coming? They didn't see the last. Richard Bookstaber has the answers on this episode of the Big Money Questions show.

====== 630 ========

HOW TO INVEST A PENSION POT IN RETIREMENT

Video: This is Money: How to invest a pension pot in retirement

Savers reaching retirement now have more freedom with their pots but also more responsibility to generate an income. How can they do this and what should they consider? Justin Urquhart Stewart, of 7IM, and Simon...

====== 631 ========

WHAT CAN INVESTORS LEARN FROM BLACK MONDAY AND OTHER CRASHES

Video: What can investors learn from Black Monday and other crashes

It’s 30 years since Black Monday – when the FTSE 100 fell 11% and went on to lose a third of its value through the months of October and November. We discuss how investors can learn from it and other crashes for...

====== 632 ========

INVESTING SHOW: ARE COMPANY PROFITS JUSTIFYING SHARE PRICES?

Video: Investing Show: Are company profits justifying share prices?

Stock markets have been hitting record highs recently but are company profits keeping up? We look at whether earnings justify the prices and if investors should see higher inflation as good or bad news.

====== 633 ========

WHY THE FTSE 100 MATTERS TO YOU - EVEN IF YOU DON'T INVEST

Video: Why the FTSE 100 matters to you - even if you don't invest

John Redwood explains why the level of the FTSE 100 affects you - even if you don't invest at all

====== 634 ========

WHAT DOES THE FTSE 100 VALUE MEAN? JOHN REDWOOD ANSWERS

Video: What does the FTSE 100 value mean? John Redwood answers

What does the FTSE 100 value mean? It's a bit above 7,000 at the moment, but 7,000 what? John Redwood answers on the Big Money Questions show.

====== 635 ========

RAY MASSEY TEST DRIVES THE NEW £350K ROLLS-ROYCE PHANTOM

Video: Ray Massey test drives the new £350K Rolls-Royce Phantom

The Rolls-Royce Phantom is the 'most silent car in the world' and the most luxurious: We test the new £350K car from the driver's seat and the back.

====== 636 ========

JAMIE OLIVER HAS LAND ROVER CUSTOM-MAKE KITCHEN ON WHEELS

Video: Jamie Oliver has Land Rover custom-make kitchen on wheels

TV chef Jamie Oliver gives his unusual specs for a new Land Rover Discovery with butter churners in the wheels, a toaster in the centre console and a slow cooker next to the engine

====== 637 ========

INVESTING SHOW: SHOULD YOU INVEST IN A VCT?

Video: Investing Show: Should you invest in a VCT?

Investors have flocked to VCTs over the past few years, attracted by their 30% tax relief and tax-free dividends. But what do VCTs invest in and should you take on this extra risk - even if it comes with a tax...

====== 638 ========

CHECK OUT THE FIRST ASTON MARTIN TO RECEIVE MERCEDES-AMG ENGINE

Video: Check out the first Aston Martin to receive Mercedes-AMG engine

The V8-powered DB11 is the first Aston Martin to receive an engine supplied by technical partners, Mercedes-AMG.

====== 639 ========

HSBC UK TAKES FIRST STEP INTO OPEN BANKING WITH HSBC BETA

Video: HSBC UK takes first step into Open Banking with HSBC Beta

Raman Bhatia and Becky Moffat announce the launch of HSBC Beta at HSBC's Innovation Outpost, the Blue Fin Building, London. It's HSBC UK's first step into Open Banking ahead of the launch of PSD2 in 2018.

====== 640 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS:JIM RICKARDS PREDICTS A FINANCIAL CRISIS

Video: Big Money Questions:Jim Rickards predicts a financial crisis

The next financial crisis will hit us in the next six to eight months and will be triggered by war between the US and North Korea, best-selling author Jim Rickards predicts on the Big Money Questions show.

====== 641 ========

DYSON WILL DEVELOP AN ELECTRIC CAR AT HULLAVINGTON AIRFIELD

Video: Dyson will develop an electric car at Hullavington Airfield

The company, which has its headquarters nearby in Malmesbury, will invest £2.5 billion on the 'radical' project and create up to 4,000 new jobs.

====== 642 ========

HOW TO PROFIT FROM TECHNOLOGY AND HUNT THE NEXT FEVERTREE

Video: Investing Show: How to profit from tech and consumer changes

Investors often hear about how important changing technology and consumer behaviour is, but how can they look for the opportunities to profit from this. To get some ideas we are joined on the Investing Show by Colin...

====== 643 ========

JAGUAR REPLACING PETROL ENGINE WITH ELECTRIC IN ORIGINAL E-TYPE

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 644 ========

ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER FEATURES IN NEW PPI CAMPAIGN

Video: Arnold Schwarzenegger features in new PPI campaign

Arnold Schwarzenegger features in FCA's new campaign to create awareness of the deadline to make a complaint about Payment Protection Insurance (PPI).

====== 645 ========

WHY AREN'T INVESTORS MORE WORRIED BY NORTH KOREA

Video: Why aren't investors more worried by North Korea

Simon Lambert, of This is Money, Nick Batsford, of Core London, and Richard Hunter, of Wilson King, discuss why investors aren’t more worried by North Korea. plus whether the market will keep moving sideways, and...

====== 646 ========

CGON'S NEW HYDROGEN PRODUCT CAN REDUCE ENGINE EMISSIONS

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 647 ========

INVESTING SHOW: IS BUY-TO-LET STILL WORTH DOING?

Video: Investing Show: Is buy-to-let still worth doing?

Buy-to-let long seemed the ideal option for Britons who found themselves with a lump sum burning a hole in their bank account. But then tax changes pulled the rug out from under it, Andrew Montlake, of Coreco,...

====== 648 ========

LAMBORGHINI FROM JAMIROQUAI'S COSMIC GIRL CLIP ON SALE IN THE UK

Video: Lamborghini from Jamiroquai's Cosmic Girl clip on sale in the UK

This is the Lamborghini Diablo driven by Jamiroquai's Jay Key in the 1996 Cosmic Girl and it is going now on sale in the UK

====== 649 ========

ROLLS-ROYCE UNVEILS ITS LATEST LUXURY CAR: THE NEW PHANTOM

Video: Rolls-Royce unveils its latest luxury car: The new Phantom

The new Phantom includes 130kg of sound insulation. It has a 6mm double-layer glazing around the vehicle to make the ride as quiet as possible. The new 'gallery' which aims to turn the car's dashboard into a bespoke...

====== 650 ========

INVESTING SHOW: HOW TO INVEST TO BEAT INFLATION

Video: Investing Show: How to invest to beat inflation

If you have the short-term emergency savings that you need, funds held for the long-term can be put to more productive work and earn a higher return. BlackRock's Jeremy Turner joins the Investing Show to look at how...

====== 651 ========

RANGE ROVER VELAR REVEALED, INSIDE, OUTSIDE AND ON AND OFF ROAD

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 652 ========

INVESTING SHOW: WILL THE SUMMER BRING STOCK MARKET STORMS?

Video: Investing Show: Will the summer bring stock market storms?

Simon Lambert, of This is Money, Richard Hunter, of Wilson King IM, and Nick Batsford, of Core London, discuss whether this will prove to be another testing summer for investors - and some storm clouds that may be...

====== 653 ========

THE GOODWOOD FESTIVAL OF SPEED - A SPECTATOR'S EYE VIEW

Video: A spectator's eye view of the Goodwood Festival of Speed

The Goodwood Festival of Speed is a long summer weekend of fast and exotic cars on the West Sussex country estate. Simon Lambert took a trip to Goodwood to get a spectator's eye view of the action.

====== 654 ========

JAGUAR REVEALS ITS NEW 'BABY' E-PACE FAMILY SUV

Video: Jaguar reveals its new 'baby' E-Pace family SUV

The Jaguar 'baby' E-Pace has been unveiled. It is a mid-sized sports utility vehicle costing from £28,500 and will be manufactured at factories in China and Austria.

====== 655 ========

SMALL COMPANY SHARE INVESTING TIPS FROM GERVAIS WILLIAM

Video: Gervais Williams' tips for investing in smaller companies

Gervais Williams has carved out a reputation as one the of the UK's best smaller cap fund managers. He joins Simon Lambert and Richard Hunter to discuss how to find the best ones, why balance sheets matter and how...

====== 656 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: WHAT CAN ECONOMISTS LEARN FROM FICTION?

Video: Big Money Questions: What can economists learn from fiction?

Morton Schapiro, president of Northwestern University and professor of economics, and Gary Saul Morson, professor of Slavic languages and literature, make a case for putting literature on economists' reading lists...

====== 657 ========

INVESTING SHOW: THE BEST PLACES TO INVEST IN EUROPE

Video: Investing Show: The best places to invest in Europe

European stock markets have surged ahead despite the common perception that the continent is still struggling. What is the state of play and where are the best places to invest? We ask Chris Hiorns, manager of the...

====== 658 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: WHY HAVE WE STILL NOT TACKLED FRAUD?

Video: Big Money Questions: Why have we still not tackled fraud?

In this episode of the Big Money Questions, Ed Balleisen, associate professor of history at Duke University, explains how fraud has changed over time and whether we'll ever manage to eradicate it.

====== 659 ========

PORSCHE UNVEILS THE 911 GT2 RS THE MOST POWERFUL 911 OF ALL TIME

Video: Porsche unveils the 911 GT2 RS the most powerful 911 of all time

Porsche has unveiled its fastest and most powerful road-approved 911 of all time, the 911 GT2 RS.

====== 660 ========

A LOOK AROUND THE MOST POWERFUL JAGUAR EVERY BUILT: XE SV PROJECT8

Video: A look around the most powerful Jaguar every built: XE SV Project8

The XE SV Project8 will become the most powerful Jaguar road car ever built - more potent than the F-Type Project7 and XJ220 supercar of the early '90s. I will cost £150,000 and just 300 are being made.

====== 661 ========

WILL WE SEE M&A BOOM AGAIN? INVESTING SHOW

Video: Investing Show: Will we see M&A boom again?

One of the defining features of the post financial crisis world was quiet times for M&A, but now things have picked up - with cash-laden tech firms particularly hungry. So will we see another M&A boom?

====== 662 ========

INVESTING SHOW: ARE STOCKMARKETS TOO EXPENSIVE?

Video: Investing Show: Are stockmarkets too expensive?

Major stockmarkets have had hit a series of new highs in recent times, do they now look expensive and does that matter? Ben Kumar, of Seven IM, joins Simon Lambert, of This is Money, and Richard Hunter, of Wilson...

====== 663 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: WHAT IS A STOCK AND WHAT IS A SHARE?

Video: Big Money Questions: What is a stock and what is a share?

Watch our simple explainer of what stocks and shares are and how they differ. In this episode of the Big Money Questions Victoria Hasler, head of research at Square Mile investment Consulting and Research, has the...

====== 664 ========

NEW MCLAREN APPLIED TECHNOLOGIES ROAD CAR SIMULATOR

Video: New McLaren Applied Technologies road car simulator

The new McLaren Applied Technologies road car simulator is derived from the F1 team’s technology. It will be used by other manufacturers to test road cars of the future.

====== 665 ========

HOW SHOULD INVESTORS DEAL WITH THE UK ELECTION RESULT?

Video: How should investors deal with the UK election result?

Dominic Rossi and Tom Stevenson of Fidelity International outline how the UK election result has affected markets and what investors can do now.

====== 666 ========

JAGUAR LAND ROVER INTRODUCES ANDY WALLACE AS IT'S NEW TEST DRIVER

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 667 ========

SUCCESSFUL FEMALE LANDLORDS TALK ABOUT CHALLENGES THEY FACE

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 668 ========

JAGUAR LAND ROVER TEASES THE OPENING OF ITS CLASSIC CAR TOUR

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 669 ========

THE NEW NISSAN QASHQAI WILL BE IN THE SHOWROOMS FROM NEXT MONTH

Video: The new Nissan Qashqai will be in the showrooms from next month

Check out the new Nissan Qashqai that will be in showrooms next month.

====== 670 ========

SHOULD YOU WORRY ABOUT THE ELECTION AND YOUR INVESTMENTS?

Video: Should you worry about the election and your investments?

A General Election expected to be a procession for the Tories has turned into a much tighter race with an uncertain outcome. Should investors worry about the result - and can they position themselves for it? Seven...

====== 671 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: WHAT IS AN EMERGING MARKET?

Video: Big Money Questions: What is an emerging market?

In this episode of the Big Money Questions, chief investment officer at Lloyds Private Banking Markus Stadlmann tells us what an emerging market is, who decides, how useful the term is and which are currently...

====== 672 ========

WHAT IS A CONSUMER? WHERE THE IDEA THAT SHAPED OUR LIVES CAME FROM

Video: Big Money Questions: What is a consumer?

The word 'consumer' is used often interchangeably with 'citizen', 'shopper', 'household', 'Briton'. But what is one, where did the term come from and how have their rights changed over time? Frank Trentmann has the...

====== 673 ========

INVESTING SHOW: SHOULD YOU INVEST IN INDIA?

Video: Investing Show: Should you invest in India?

Investors in India have seen sparkling performance over the past year, but the market is also often judged to be pricey. So is it worth investing in India? We discuss the prospects with Ashburton India Equity fund...

====== 674 ========

FOOTAGE SHOWING THE AMAZING EVOLUTION OF THE PORSCHE 911 CARRERA

Video: Footage showing the amazing evolution of the Porsche 911 Carrera

The 911 Carrera is the benchmark for all-round sports cars in terms of driving dynamics. With each new generation, Porsche continues to refine the exemplary combination of everyday comfort and racing performance.

====== 675 ========

BMW SELF-DRIVE CAR COULD ALLOW MOTORISTS TO SLEEP AT THE WHEEL

Video: BMW self-drive car could allow motorists to sleep at the wheel

BMW has developed a self-drive car that could enable a driver to remove their eyes from the road and even sleep for a a brief moment.

====== 676 ========

ROLLS-ROYCE SHOWCASES ITS BESPOKE CAPABILITIES IN STYLISH CAR

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 677 ========

BMW'S PETER VARADI ON THE TECHNOLOGY USED FOR ITS SELF-DRIVE CAR

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 678 ========

TIME TO INVEST IN EUROPE? IT'S NOT FIXED, WARNS TOM BECKET

Video: Time to invest in Europe? It's not fixed, warns Tom Becket

With the French election out of the way and the safe choice of Macron elected, can investors now make some money from Europe? Short-term there are profits to be had, but European leaders are in danger of forgetting...

====== 679 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: WOULD A UNIVERSAL BASIC INCOME WORK?

Video: Big Money Questions: Would a Universal Basic Income work?

Should we give everyone a set monthly lump, regardless of their income or finances? Dr Guy Standing explains why he believes we should - and how it would make people better at decision making.

====== 680 ========

INVESTING SHOW: HOW ARE UK COMPANIES DOING?

Video: Investing Show: How are UK companies doing?

A slew of British firms released results recently, so how is UK PLC faring? Richard Hunter, of Wilson King, takes a look. And TipTV's Nick Batsford, looks at whether investors should be worried by calm and the VIX...

====== 681 ========

JOHN REDWOOD ON THE FRENCH ELECTION AND WHAT IT MEANS FOR EUROPE

Video: Investing Show: John Redwood on the French election

John Redwood joins This is Money's Investing Show to discuss what the French election means for Europe and the euro - and what this could all mean for investors. (April 2017)

====== 682 ========

WATCH THE PRODUCTION OF THE ONE-MILLIONTH PORSCHE 911

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 683 ========

INVESTING SHOW: JOHN REDWOOD ON WHETHER TRUMP CAN DELIVER

Video: Investing Show: John Redwood on whether Trump can deliver

John Redwood joins the Investing Show to discuss whether Donald Trump can deliver his economic plans a president, with This is Money's Simon Lambert and Wilson King IM's Richard Hunter.

====== 684 ========

INVESTING SHOW: WILL SHARES GO OFF THE BOIL OR KEEP RISING?

Video: Investing Show: Will shares go off the boil or keep rising?

The FTSE 100 has surged to fresh record highs in 2017, but can that run continue through the rest of the year? Chris Justham, of Seven IM, looks at what has done best over the past three to six months and whether...

====== 685 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: CAN WE AVOID ANOTHER FINANCIAL CRISIS?

Video: Big Money Questions: Can we avoid another financial crisis?

In this episode of the Big Money Questions, professor Steve Keen questions whether we can avoid another financial crisis. (Spoiler alert: Basically, no. Here's why...).

====== 686 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: IS GDP DANGEROUS?

Video: Big Money Questions: Is GDP dangerous?

We may think that GDP is just an innocuous little number, a way to measure the economy, but it creates all sorts of harm, says Lorenzo Fioramonti, author of The World After GDP and the latest guest on the Big Money...

====== 687 ========

HONDA CIVIC TYPE R SMASHES NURBURGRING LAP RECORD

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 688 ========

WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT ASSET ALLOCATION: INVESTING SHOW

Video: Investing Show: What you need to know about asset allocation

Asset allocation is one of the most important things to get right for investing success. But what does it mean, how do you do it and how do you then profit from opportunities? Fidelity's Bill McQuaker explains the...

====== 689 ========

THE TESLA MODEL X AND ITS FALCON WING DOORS

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 690 ========

EVOLUTION OF THE RANGE ROVER FROM VELAR TO THE SVAUTOBIOGRAPHY DYNAMIC

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 691 ========

INVESTING SHOW: SHOULD YOU INVEST IN AN IPO?

Video: Investing Show: Should you invest in an IPO?

We take a look at the latest news investors need to know about, including the IPO revival in the US and if we will now see more flotations in the UK. Simon Lambert, Richard Hunter and Nick Batsford look at IPO...

====== 692 ========

VISA OPENS ITS LARGEST INNOVATION CENTRE IN LONDON

Video: Visa opens its largest innovation centre in London

Visa opens London's largest innovation centre for the public to experience new technology, with an emphasis on the future of retail, interacting with online shopping using virtual reality sets.

====== 693 ========

WHY IS THE POUND FALLING WHEN THE UK ECONOMY IS SO STRONG?

Video: Why is the pound falling when the UK economy is so strong?

A weak pound tends to reflect weaknesses in the economy, but Britain's is growing faster than almost any other in the developed world. What's going on?

====== 694 ========

INVESTMENTS THAT CAN BENEFIT FROM INFLATION: INVESTING SHOW

Video: Investments that can benefit from inflation: Investing Show

There's debate over how high it will go but there is widespread agreement that more inflation is on the way. What investments should benefit from this? Richard Hunter, of Wilson King, Simon Lambert, of This is...

====== 695 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS:WHAT ADVERTISING TRICKS GET US SPENDING?

Video: Big Money Questions:What advertising tricks get us spending?

Expert in the psychology of financial behaviour Mark Fenton-O'Creevy talks through some of the top tricks and how we can immunise ourselves against them

====== 696 ========

VIDEO: EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT SPOTTING TELEPHONE SCAMMERS

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 697 ========

INVESTING SHOW: WHY SHOULD YOU INVEST IN EMERGING MARKETS?

Video: Investing Show: Why should you invest in emerging markets?

While emerging markets may be seen as risky, they are cheap and have great prospects, argues Carlos Hardenberg of Templeton Emerging Markets Trust.

====== 698 ========

FROM APPRENTICE TO ASSISTANT MANAGER: THIS IS ADAM'S STORY AT ALDI

Video: From apprentice to assistant manager: This is Adam's story at Aldi

Adam Radley started his career at Aldi as an apprentice after finishing college. Nowadays, he is working as an assistant manager.

====== 699 ========

IS GOLD SET TO RISE AGAIN? THE INVESTING SHOW

Video: Investing Show: Is gold set to rise again?

Gold is still 30% off its all-time dollar high, but for some investors it retains an enduring appeal. Adrian Ash, of BullionVault, joins the Investing Show to explain who is buying, why they buy and look at the gold...

====== 700 ========

MAN WINS BENTLEY A DECADE AFTER BET WITH BUSINESSMAN

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 701 ========

WE STRIKE A NEW 12-SIDED £1 COIN AT THE ROYAL MINT

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 702 ========

BIG MONEY QS: HOW WORRIED SHOULD WE BE ABOUT HOUSEHOLD DEBT?

Video: Big Money Qs: How worried should we be about household debt?

In this episode of the Big Money Questions, professor Steve Keen explains why he believes growing household debt levels are more of a concern than government debt.

====== 703 ========

INVESTING SHOW: ARE SUPERMARKETS BACK ON THE UP?

Video: Investing Show: Are supermarkets back on the up?

Britain's big supermarkets posted decent results for Christmas, so are they bouncing back after some terrible years? The Investing Show discusses their prospects and what's happening on the markets.

====== 704 ========

FORD MUSTANG SCORES LOW IN EURO NCAP SAFETY TEST

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 705 ========

INVESTING SHOW: WHERE TO INVEST FOR THE BEST DIVIDENDS

Video: Investing Show: Where to invest for the best dividends

Share dividends appeal for income but also provide long-term investors with a major part of their returns. Justin Urquhart Stewart explains where to invest for the best dividends and how to spot them

====== 706 ========

CAN THE FTSE 100 CONTINUE ITS RUN IN 2017?

Video: Investing Show: Can the FTSE 100 continue its run in 2017?

The FTSE 100 has started 2017 with a bang, but can it continue its run after a record-breaking series of fresh highs? Simon Lambert, of This is Money, Richard Hunter, of Wilson King IM, and Nick Batsford, of TipTV,...

====== 707 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: DID FINANCE MAKE CIVILISATION POSSIBLE?

Video: Big Money Questions: Did finance make civilisation possible?

Big Money Questions: Did finance make civilisation possible? Will Goetzmann, professor at the Yale School of Management, argues that civilisation as we know it would not have been possible without finance.

====== 708 ========

INVESTING SHOW: WILL 2017 BE A GOOD YEAR FOR INVESTORS?

Video: Investing Show: Will 2017 be a good year for investors?

Investors started 2016 pessimistic but despite a series of seismic events, markets have ended the year on a roll. So what does 2017 hold? Simon Lambert, Richard Hunter and Nick Batsford take a look and ask if...

====== 709 ========

HOW TO PROFIT FROM PROPERTY IN THE WORLD'S BEST CITIES

Video: How to profit from property in the world's best cities

Hugo Machin, of Schroders, reveals the winners in its Global Cities Index and why explains why he thinks companies that own a slice of the world's best cities where global growth is concentrated have long-term...

====== 710 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: RECLAIMING ECONOMICS FROM ECONOMISTS

Video: Big Money Questions: Reclaiming economics from economists

The economy is too important to leave in the hands of economists. So says Joe Earle, co-author of The Econocracy and guest on the Big Money Questions show.

====== 711 ========

INVESTING SHOW: SHOULD INVESTORS WORRY ABOUT POLITICS?

Video: Investing Show: Should investors worry about politics?

Henrietta Grimston, of Seven Investment Management, explains how investors can position themselves for big political and economic events and looks at how deeply they need to consider them.

====== 712 ========

INVESTING SHOW: CAN YOU MAKE MONEY FROM CROWDFUNDING?

Video: Investing Show: Can you make money from crowdfunding?

James Codling, of Venture Founders, answers questions on whether investors can make money on crowdfunding. He reveals what he looks for in a business, tells us about the early stage firms he likes the most and gives...

====== 713 ========

INVESTING SHOW: WILL PRESIDENT TRUMP BE GOOD FOR INVESTORS?

Video: Investing Show: Will President Trump be good for investors?

Stock markets confounded forecasts and rose on Donald Trump¿s election to US President, but will the Trumpflation trade run out of steam? The Investing Show looks at what he will mean for the economy, investors and...

====== 714 ========

ALFA ROMEO INTRODUCES THE FIRST SUV IN 106 YEARS 'STELVIO'

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 715 ========

INVESTING SHOW: SHOULD YOU INVEST IN A VCT?

Video: Investing Show: Should you invest in a VCT?

VCTs offer 30% income tax relief and the chance to tap into exciting early stage companies, but this comes at a price and is riskier than a standard investment fund. Stuart Lewis, of Octopus, answers questions on...

====== 716 ========

JONES FAMILY DO THE MOST EXTREME SCHOOL RUN IN SKODA KODIAQ

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 717 ========

TIM HARFORD ON WHY MESS IS GOOD ON THE BIG MONEY QUESTIONS

Video: Tim Harford on why mess is good on the Big Money Questions

The FT's undercover economist Tim Harford tells This is Money's Rachel Rickard Straus why mess makes us more productive, creative and successful.

====== 718 ========

'YOU'RE JOKING': ASTONISHED GIRL DISCOVERS SHE'S WON LUXURY CAR

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 719 ========

INVESTING SHOW: WILL BANK SHARES DO WELL IF RATES STAY LOW?

Video: Investing Show: Will bank shares do well if rates stay low?

Britain's big banks have seen their share prices suffer even as the FTSE 100 has risen after Brexit. Investors uncertain about the economic outlook and low interest rates have been shunning banks, so are they an...

====== 720 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: IS THE POST-WORK WORLD COMING?

Video: Big Money Questions: Is the post-work world coming?

Technology is supplanted the role of humans in the world of work at an unprecedented rate. Soon those in white-collar jobs will start to feel it, says senior economics columnist at The Economist Ryan Avent. Is this...

====== 721 ========

THE NEW MINI COUNTRYMAN: FROM CITY TO COUNTRY AND BACK AGAIN

Video: The new Mini Countryman: From city to country and back again

The second generation of the Mini Countryman has grown in size!

====== 722 ========

IS NOW A GOOD TIME TO INVEST IN EMERGING MARKETS? THE INVESTING SHOW

Video: Investing Show: Is it time to invest in emerging markets?

Emerging markets have bounced back, as sentiment has switched from pessimism to optimism. But which emerging markets offer the best opportunities and what should UK investors do in light of sterling's fall? Justin...

====== 723 ========

SLICK PROMO SHOWS HOW TO USE LYNK & CO CAR SHARING ON MOBILE

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 724 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: SHOULD EVERYONE PAY THE SAME TAX RATE?

Video: Big Money Questions: Should everyone pay the same tax rate?

In this episode of the Big Money Questions, politics professor at NYU David Stasavage discusses how we decide how much tax everyone should pay - and which system is fairest.

====== 725 ========

INVESTING SHOW: WHY DO US EARNINGS MATTER TO UK INVESTORS?

Video: Investing Show: Why do US earnings matter to UK investors?

All eyes are on the US election, but companies are also delivering their third quarter results. Richard Hunter takes a look at why US earnings matter to UK investors, while Simon Lambert discusses how many shares...

====== 726 ========

ALL YOU NEED TO KNOW: THE ALL NEW BMW 5 SERIES SEDAN

Video: All you need to know: The all new BMW 5 Series Sedan

Be one of the first to discover the all new BMW 5 Series.

====== 727 ========

INVESTING SHOW: RICHARD BUXTON ON BANKS AND THE FTSE

Video: Investing Show: Richard Buxton on banks and the FTSE

The FTSE 100's rise is being driven by the weak pound, says Old Mutual Global Investors chief executive Richard Buxton. 'It¿s just straight translation into profit upgrades,¿ he says. Simon Lambert gets the UK Alpha...

====== 728 ========

INVESTING SHOW: HOW LONG CAN THE POUND FLATTER EARNINGS?

Video: Investing Show: How long can the pound flatter earnings?

Simon Lambert, of This is Money, Richard Hunter, of Wilson King IM and Nick Batsford of TipTV discuss how long the pound can flatter company figures and get some lessons from Warren Buffett.

====== 729 ========

THE HARLEY-DAVIDSON FORTY-EIGHT PUT TO THE TEST

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 730 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS SHOW: THE SPATS DESTABILISING THE EURO

Video: Big Money Questions show: The spats destabilising the euro

Princeton economists Markus K. Brunnermeier, Professor Harold James talk about how the two countries' key differences cause chaos - and will have knock-on effects for Brexit.

====== 731 ========

INVESTING SHOW: HOW TO USE ETFS TO INVEST IN TRICKY TIMES

Video: Investing Show: How to use ETFs to invest in tricky times

Ursula Marchioni, chief strategist EMEA at iShares, discusses the trends that she¿s seen investors follow this year and what the prospects for the future are.

====== 732 ========

2016 PORSCHE 911 TURBO REVIEW: AN EVERYDAY SUPERCAR?

Video: The everyday supercar? We test the Porsche 911 Turbo

Porsche's 911 Turbo is back in a refreshed 2016 guise that can hit 60mph in 3 seconds and reach almost 200mph. But can a vehicle this fast really be well-mannered everyday supercar when it needs to be? Simon Lambert...

====== 733 ========

INVESTING SHOW: SCOTTISH MORTGAGE'S TOM SLATER ON US TECH

Video: How Scottish Mortgage backs the future (Sept 2016)

Shares in US-tech stars like Amazon, Google and Tesla may be expensive but that reflects how great they could one day be, says Scottish Mortgage's Tom Slater. (September 2016)

====== 734 ========

WHY DOES LONG-TERM INVESTING PAY OFF?

Video: Why does long-term investing pay off?

Investors are often told to think long-term but why does the stock market grow over time? Richard Hunter, of Wilson King IM, explains to Simon Lambert, of This is Money, why long-term investing pays off.

====== 735 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: HOW TO READ SIGNALS ABOUT THE ECONOMY

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 736 ========

INVESTING SHOW: THE CHART LONG-TERM INVESTORS SHOULD SEE

Video: Investing Show: The chart long-term investors should see

Richard Hunter, of Wilson King IM, reveals the chart that long-term investors need to see and Nick Batsford, of TipTV and a former trader, explains the signs to watch out for in a market top.

====== 737 ========

CAN YOU MAKE MONEY THROUGH SIMPLE INVESTING?

Video: Can you make money through simple investing?

Gemma Godfrey joins Simon Lambert and the Investing Show regulars in the studio to discuss who to demystify the investment world.

====== 738 ========

INVESTING SHOW: WHAT CAN WE LEARN FROM THE BREXIT BOUNCE?

Video: Investing Show: What can we learn from the Brexit bounce?

Richard Hunter looks at what's on the cards next for investors and what we can learn from the post-Brexit rally and Nick Batsford discusses Jesse Livermore, the legendary trader.

====== 739 ========

BIG MONEY QS: IS BIG DATA A 'WEAPON OF MATH DESTRUCTION'?

Video: Big Money Qs: Is big data a 'weapon of math destruction'?

Author and mathematician Cathy O'Neil talks about the rising use of big data, and how it can increase inequality, affect who goes to jail, how much we pay for insurance - and even how long we're left waiting on...

====== 740 ========

CAN THIS NEW DEVICE PROTECT YOU FROM CONTACTLESS CARD FRAUD?

Video: Can this new device protect you from contactless card fraud?

The 'Defender Note' is the new product that has been developed to keep cards protected from contactless fraud. The video gives a demonstration for how to effectively use the 'Defender Note' in a handbag, purse and...

====== 741 ========

INVESTING SHOW: WHY INFRASTRUCTURE IS THE NEXT OPPORTUNITY

Video: Investing Show: Why infrastructure is the next opportunity

Tom Becket, of Psigma Investment Management, looks at whether markets can continue their strong run, and why he thinks the Bank of England's rate cut was pointless but infrastructure spending should provide the...

====== 742 ========

HOW A 1920S RAF BASE WAS TRANSFORMED INTO A CLASSIC CAR HUB

Video: How a 1920s RAF base was transformed into a classic car hub

Bicester Heritage, with 30 businesses on one elegant site, is the brainchild of businessman Dan Geoghegan, who believed that the fragmented but highly-valuable British classic car industry needed a fresh way of...

====== 743 ========

INVESTING SHOW: HOW DOES TECHNICAL ANALYSIS WORK?

Video: Investing Show: How does technical analysis work?

Richard Hunter, of Wilson King IM, reveals why there may be some good news for both the US and UK, and Nick Batsford, of TipTV, explains how technical analysis works for traders and investors, as they join Simon...

====== 744 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: WHAT IS THE BANK OF ENGLAND BASE RATE?

Video: Big Money Questions: What is the Bank of England base rate?

The Bank of England has just cut the base rate to just 0.25 per cent - its lowest level for more than 300 years. But what is the base rate, why is it so low and what does it mean for our finances?

====== 745 ========

IS THERE A HOUSING CRISIS AND CAN PRICES KEEP RISING?

Video: Is there a housing crisis and can prices keep rising?

Declining ownership is seen as another sign of property market in crisis, but is this true? Ed Mead, of Douglas and Gordon, joins Simon Lambert and Jenny Hammond to look at whether prices will keep rising and who...

====== 746 ========

WHAT HAPPENS TO YOUR PENSION AT RETIREMENT?

Video: What happens to your pension at retirement?

Many of us know about saving into a pension, but what happens to that pot when you retire? Adrian Walker, of Old Mutual Wealth, explains to This is Money's Simon Lambert

====== 747 ========

INVESTING SHOW: BEST PLACES AROUND THE WORLD TO BEAT BREXIT

Video: Investing Show: Best places around the world to beat Brexit

Justin Urquhart Stewart, of Seven Investment Management, joins Simon Lambert and Richard Hunter on This is Money's Investing Show to take us on a trip round the globe to weigh up where the best prospects lie. He...

====== 748 ========

INVESTING SHOW: HOW HEALTHY IS THE FTSE 100 LOOKING?

Video: Investing Show: How healthy is the FTSE 100 looking?

A slew of major UK companies reported results this week, but how healthy are our big firms looking? Richard Hunter, Simon Lambert and Nick Batsford discuss the outlook from banks, to builders and airlines and if we...

====== 749 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: HOW IS MONEY CREATED?

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 750 ========

CLASSIC FORD CARS IN TRAFFIC IN LONDON IN THE LATE 1980S

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 751 ========

BE FRAUD SMART: BARCLAYS INCREASING AWARENESS OF CARD FRAUD

Video: Be fraud smart: Barclays increasing awareness of card fraud

A distraction scam involves someone trying to distract you while you're at a cash machine in order to get your PIN, card or money. Don't let anyone distract you when you're at a cash machine, cover your PIN when you...

====== 752 ========

INVESTING SHOW: THE VALUE INVESTOR WHO IS BUYING BANKS

Video: Investing Show: The value investor who is buying banks

Nick Kirrage, of Schroders, explains to Simon Lambert, of This is Money, why he believes value investing is the best way to grow wealth and reveals why he is picking up unloved banks and supermarkets. Joining them...

====== 753 ========

INVESTING SHOW: THE BREXIT STOCK MARKET WINNERS AND LOSERS

Video: Investing Show: The Brexit stock market winners and losers

Simon Lambert, of This is Money, and Richard Hunter, of Wilson King, discuss the shares that have done well and badly since Brexit and why - and also look at why the FTSE 100 and 250 have taken separate paths.

====== 754 ========

WHAT DOES BREXIT MEAN FOR HOUSE PRICES AND MORTGAGE RATES?

Video: What does Brexit mean for house prices and mortgage rates?

Simon Lambert, of This is Money, Jenny Hammond, of TipTV, and Andrew Montlake, of mortgage broker Coreco, discuss whether interest rates will be cut, how much cheaper mortgages can get and whether this is a good...

====== 755 ========

BIG MONEY QUESTIONS: IS SUCCESS DOWN TO HARD WORK OR LUCK?

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 756 ========

HOW FIDELITY PICKED TOP FUNDS FOR THE SELECT 50

Video: How Fidelity picked top funds for the Select 50

Tom Stevenson, Investing Director at Fidelity Personal Investing is joined by Tom Ewing at Fidelity Solutions who is responsible for ensuring that only the best funds make it onto the Select 50 list.

====== 757 ========

PORSCHE PANAMERA TURNS HEADS WITH SPLIT REAR WING

Video: Porsche Panamera turns heads with split rear wing

The stunning Porsche Panamera Turbo and Porsche Panamera 4S race through the streets in this promotional video. The car features a clever split rear wing which divides in the centre before gracefully lifting.

====== 758 ========

WHERE SHOULD YOU INVEST AFTER BREXIT? INVESTING SHOW

Video: Investing Show: Where should you invest after Brexit?

Ben Kumar, of Seven IM, joins Simon Lambert, of This is Money, and Richard Hunter, of Wilson King IM, to discuss the shares that have done badly and well after Brexit and where to invest now.

====== 759 ========

WHY HAS BREXIT HIT THE MARKET AND BANKS? INVESTING SHOW

Video: Investing Show: Why has Brexit hit the market and banks?

Simon Lambert, Richard Hunter and Nick Batsford discuss how hard Brexit has hit the market and why certain shares have suffered badly.

====== 760 ========

WHERE WILL HAPPEN TO STOCK MARKETS AFTER THE EU REFERENDUM?

Video: What will happen to stock markets after the EU referendum?

Dominic Rossi, global chief investment officer equities at Fidelity International, and investment director Tom Stevenson discuss the outlook for shares, the pound and the economy after the Brexit vote.

====== 761 ========

BANK OF ENGLAND CHIEF MARK CARNEY REACTS TO LEAVE RESULT

Video: Bank of England chief Mark Carney reacts to Leave result

Bank of England Chief Mark Carney said the Bank can provide liquidity in foreign currency if needed. He said the institution is prepared to deal with the market volatility that is under way following Britain's...

====== 762 ========

THE NEW LIMITED EDITION VANQUISH ZAGATO, FROM ASTON MARTIN

Video: The new limited edition Vanquish Zagato, from Aston Martin

Aston Martin have introduced their new limited edition Vanquish Zagato, unveiled at Concorso d'Eleganza Villa d'Este at Lake Como, Italy. Only 99 cars will be made to order at their production facility in Gaydon,...

====== 763 ========

WHAT DO INVESTORS NEED TO THINK ABOUT AFTER THE BREXIT VOTE?

Video: What do investors need to think about after the Brexit vote?

Brexit has dominated investors' thoughts recently, but what else should they be thinking about? Simon Lambert, Richard Hunter and Nick Batsford discuss the outlook and what could do well or badly depending on a...

====== 764 ========

FIVE THINGS YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT INVESTING IN SHARES: INVESTING SHOW

Video: Investing Show: Five things you need to know about shares

Richard Hunter, of Wilson King IM, joins Simon Lambert, of This is Money, to discuss five important measures investors need to know about when picking shares.

====== 765 ========

INVESTING SHOW: SHARE IDEAS TO PROFIT FROM EURO 2016

Video: Investing Show: Share ideas to profit from Euro 2016

Richard Hunter, of Wilson King IM, identifies companies for whom Euro 2016 could prove a catalyst for better long-term performance, while Nick Batsford, of Tip TV, highlights some signs markets could improve

====== 766 ========

EXPERT REVEALS FIVE MOST COMMON TECHNIQUES USED BY CONMEN

Video: Expert reveals five most common techniques used by conmen

Fraud prevention expert James Freedman reveals five of the most common techniques scammers use to get you to part with your cash and personal information, in a new advert from TalkTalk

====== 767 ========

INVESTING SHOW: TIPS TO BUILD AN INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO

Video: Investing Show: Tips to build an investment portfolio

Justin Urquhart Stewart of Seven Investment Management joins Simon Lambert, of This is Money, in the studio to discuss how to build a balance portfolio and invest long-term

====== 768 ========

HOW GOOD IS THE NEW FORD MUSTANG GT V8? WE PUT IT TO THE TEST

Video: How good is the Ford Mustang GT V8? We put it to the test

It's been a 50-year wait, but the Ford Mustang is finally available to UK buyers in right-hand drive. This is Money and MailOnline's Simon Lambert tests the 2016 Mustang GT to see whether this 5 litre V8 American...

====== 769 ========

INVESTING SHOW: SHOULD WE WORRY ABOUT BREXIT AND DEFLATION?

Video: Investing Show: Should we worry about Brexit and deflation?

The Brexit debate is dominating the headlines at the same time as the threat of deflation is worrying central bankers. How worried should investors be? Simon Lambert, Nick Batsford and Richard Hunter discuss the...

====== 770 ========

CAPTIVE MEDIA ON THE SEED AND EIS HOUR CROWDFUNDING SHOW

Video: Captive Media on the Seed and EIS hour crowdfunding show

An excerpt from Captive Media's pitch on the Seed and EIS hour crowdfunding show - full episodes can be seen at intelligentcrowd.tv

====== 771 ========

NEW FUEL: HONDA CRACKS DOWN POLLUTION WITH FUEL CELL CAR

Video: New fuel: Honda cracks down pollution with fuel cell car

Honda cracks down pollution with fuel cell car. Pollution free cars get a boost as new hydrogen filling station opens marking the start of an eco superhighway.

====== 772 ========

WHERE IS THE BEST PLACE TO INVEST FOR THE REST OF 2016?

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 773 ========

HOW TO SPOT RELIABLE INCOME SHARES: FIDELITY'S MICHAEL CLARKE ON THE INVESTING SHOW

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 774 ========

WHAT IS THE OUTLOOK FOR SHARES AND BONDS?

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 775 ========

INVESTING SHOW: TIME FOR GOVERNMENTS TO START SPENDING?

Video: Investing Show: Time for governments to start spending?

Richard Hunter, of Wilson King, Simon Lambert, of This is Money, and Nick Batsford, of TipTV, look at what calls for an end to austerity and borrowing and spending on infrastructure would mean for investors.

====== 776 ========

TAKE A LOOK AT THE SLEEK NEW AUDI TT RS COUPÉ AND ROADSTER

Video: Take a look at the sleek new Audi TT RS Coupé and Roadster

The second-generation Audi TT RS has been unveiled in both coupé and roadster forms at the Beijing motor show, prior to UK sales starting in October. The TT RS is the first recipient of Audi's new turbocharged...

====== 777 ========

INVESTING SHOW: TOP SHARES OF A DIVIDEND HERO

Video: Investing Show: Top shares of a dividend hero

City of London investment trust has raised its dividend payout for 50 years in a row, Job Curtis - the trust's manager for the past 25 years - joins the Investing Show to discuss income investing and his best ideas.

====== 778 ========

ARE MERGERS GOOD NEWS FOR INVESTORS? INVESTING SHOW

Video: Investing Show: Are mergers good news for investors?

Richard Hunter, head of research at Wilson King, looks at the pick-up in mergers and acquisitions and how investors can work out if a deal is good news. While Nick Batsford takes a look at some bearish calls that a...

====== 779 ========

THE NEW JAGUAR F-PACE DIESEL R-SPORT IN ITALIAN RACING RED

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 780 ========

'I'M EXTRA VIGILANT': ONLINE FRAUD VICTIM WARNS ABOUT DANGERS

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 781 ========

INVESTING SHOW: WHAT IS SMART BETA AND CAN IT BOOST RETURNS?

Video: Investing Show: What is smart beta and can it boost returns?

Hector McNeil, of ETF specialist Wisdom Tree, joins Simon Lambert, of This is Money, on the investing show to explain index investing, exchange traded funds and why some investors prefer to tilt these to try and...

====== 782 ========

MAZDA MX-5 RF FEATURES TRANSFORMER-LIKE FOLDING ROOF DESIGN

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 783 ========

INVESTING SHOW: WHAT NEXT FOR DRUG COMPANY SHARES?

Video: Investing Show: What next for drug company shares?

Richard Hunter, market strategist, takes a look at the big FTSE 100 drug companies, their dividends and whether poor sentiment in recent times makes them a decent prospect now.

====== 784 ========

WHAT THE BUDGET AND LIFETIME ISA MEAN FOR YOU

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 785 ========

INVESTING SHOW: HOW TO HUNT FOR FUTURE DIVIDEND STARS

Video: Investing Show: How to hunt for future dividend stars

Laura Foll, co-manager of Lowland investment trust, looks at the outlook for dividend shares, why she's buying some oil and commodities stocks and where she and fellow manager James Henderson are looking for future...

====== 786 ========

BEHIND THE WHEEL OF THE NEW ROLLS-ROYCE DAWN

Video: Behind the wheel of the new Rolls-Royce Dawn

Rolls-Royce has launched its new Dawn convertible, the luxury British carmaker shows us what it's like on the road

====== 787 ========

INVESTING SHOW: HAS THE STOCK MARKET STORM ENDED?

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 788 ========

PRESENTER PAUL WOODFORD REVIEWS THE FORD CAPRI 280

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 789 ========

INVESTING SHOW: HOW TO PICK THE BEST FUNDS

Video: Investing Show: How to pick the best funds

Marcus Brookes, head of multi-manager at Schroders, reveals how his team pick the best funds for investors - and highlights some ideas on where to invest now

====== 790 ========

INVESTING SHOW: ARE BANK SHARES A BUY?

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 791 ========

INVESTING SHOW: JAPAN IS A 'STANDOUT' VALUE OPPORTUNITY

Video: Investing Show: Japan is a 'standout' opportunity

Against a backdrop of bad headlines, contrarian investor Tim Price explains where he's looking for good news in the latest episode of the Investing Show.

====== 792 ========

INVESTING SHOW: TIPS FOR PENSION INVESTORS

Video: Investing Show: Tips for pension investors

Lydia Fearn, head of DC and Financial Wellbeing, at consultancy Redington, discusses how people can make the most of their pension savings on the Investing Show.

====== 793 ========

HEXAGON SHOW OFF ICONIC CLASSIC CARS TO PROMOTE SHOWROOM MOVE

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 794 ========

INVESTING SHOW: OPPORTUNITIES IN THE STOCK MARKET SLUMP

Video: Investing Show: Opportunities in the stock market slump

Justin Urquhart Stewart, of 7IM, and Tom Walker, manager of the Martin Currie Global Portfolio Trust, reveal their tips for riding the storm and where they see the chance to buy into good investments cheaper.

====== 795 ========

ADAM MCKAY ON HIS DECISION TO MAKE BLOCKBUSTER THE BIG SHORT

Video: Adam McKay on his decision to make blockbuster The Big Short

The Big Short's Adam McKay on why he went from making films like Anchorman to one about subprime mortgages and who he would lock up for the financial crisis.

====== 796 ========

TAKE A LOOK AT THE NEW 200MPH F-TYPE SVR JAGUAR IN ACTION

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 797 ========

LUKE HOBBS PLAYS AND TUNES UP FOR THE NEXT GUITAR AUCTION

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 798 ========

HOW THE RAC PLANS TO KNOW ABOUT A BREAKDOWN BEFORE YOU DO

Video: How the RAC plans to know about a breakdown before you do

A new system set to be launched by the RAC will compare real time data from your car with records of other car breakdowns

====== 799 ========

THE INVESTING SHOW: SHOULD INVESTORS TAKE COURAGE?

Video: The Investing Show: Should investors take courage?

The start of 2016 has been a rocky ride for investors, but should they worry or ride out the storm? Liz Field, of the WMA, joins Simon Lambert, Richard Hunter and Nick Batsford for the latest Investing Show

====== 800 ========

WHAT'S IT LIKE TO DESIGN AND COLLECT A ROLLS-ROYCE?

Video: What's it like to design and collect a Rolls-Royce?

Rolls-Royce buyers are invited to the carmaker's Goodwood HQ and get the full luxury treatment. What's that like? Rob Hull found out.

====== 801 ========

CHARLES TYRWHITT'S NICK WHEELER EXPLAINS THE COMPANY MISSION

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 802 ========

WHAT DOES CHINA'S STOCK MARKET STORM MEAN FOR INVESTORS?

Video: What does China's stock market storm mean for investors?

Stock market storms have hit the start of 2016, but what do problems in China mean for investors? Dominic Rossi, Fidelity's global chief investment officer for equities, explains

====== 803 ========

THE BIG REVEAL: HOW OWNERS FIRST SEE THEIR NEW ROLLS-ROYCE

Video: The big reveal: How owners first see their new Rolls-Royce

Picking up your brand new Rolls-Royce doesn't just mean a trip to a dealer to collect the keys. We visited the carmaker's Goodwood HQ to see the treatment owners get.

====== 804 ========

JARGON BUSTER: WHAT'S A MORTGAGE AGREEMENT IN PRINCIPLE?

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 805 ========

THE ZENOS E10 R IS A £40K BRITISH MINI-SUPERCAR

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 806 ========

STEPHEN JONES: WHERE CAN INVESTORS FIND INCOME IN 2015?

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 807 ========

INVESTING SHOW: JEREMY LANG¿S TIPS TO AVOID PROBLEM SHARES

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 808 ========

JARGON BUSTER: WHAT TYPES OF MORTGAGES ARE THERE?

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 809 ========

THE INVESTING SHOW: THE BEST PLACES IN THE WORLD TO INVEST

Video: The Investing Show: The best places in the world to invest

Tom Becket, of Psigma, joins Simon Lambert, Nick Batsford and Richard Hunter to discuss where investors can make the best returns.

====== 810 ========

CAN THE RENAULT KADJAR COMPETE WITH THE NISSAN QASHQAI?

Video: Can the Renault Kadjar compete with the Nissan Qashqai?

The best small SUVs go head-to-head: Can Renault's Kadjar knock the Nissan Qashqai off its perch?

====== 811 ========

STEPHEN JONES: DO EMERGING MARKETS LOOK GOOD VALUE?

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 812 ========

ODDBINS LAUNCH #WHATTHEFOX CHRISTMAS CAMPAIGN

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 813 ========

LAND ROVER COMPLETES WORLD'S FIRST DRIVE ACROSS PAPER BRIDGE

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 814 ========

INVESTING SHOW: HOW TO INVEST FOR RETIREMENT INCOME

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 815 ========

BRITISH ARTIST'S FULL SCALE REPLICA OF THE NISSAN JUKE

Video: British artist's full scale replica of the Nissan Juke

They say the best ideas start with just a blank piece of paper. See how British origami artist Owen Gildersleeve created a full-scale replica of the Juke entirely from paper, to celebrate our popular crossover's...

====== 816 ========

RESEARCH SAYS 90% OF PEOPLE STRUGGLE RECOGNISING ROAD SIGNS

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 817 ========

INVESTING SHOW: WHAT NEXT FOR THE PROPERTY MARKET & BUY-TO-LET?

Video: Projections for buy-to-let ahead at the end of 2015

Rob Ellice, of easyproperty, joins Simon Lambert, Nick Batsford and Richard Hunter to discuss the prospects for the property market and buy-to-let.

====== 818 ========

I DON'T WANT TO PICK INVESTMENTS MYSELF, ARE THERE FUNDS THAT CAN DO IT FOR ME?

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 819 ========

THE COLTON COLLECTION FERRARIS TAKE TO THE COUNTRY'S ROADS

Video: The Colton Collection Ferraris take to the country's roads

The Colton Collection Ferraris take to the country's roads touring over the last few months.

====== 820 ========

INVESTING SHOW: SHOULD YOU BUY LLOYDS AND REASONS TO BE CHEERFUL

Video: Investing Show: Should you buy Lloyds and reasons to be cheerful

The Lloyds share sale is considered and David Miller, of Quilter Cheviot, joins Simon Lambert, Richard Hunter and Nick Batsford to discuss when the market turmoil will end and why he is optimistic.

====== 821 ========

BUILT FOR BOND: THE ASTON MARTIN DB10 FOR NEW FILM SPECTRE

Video: Built for Bond: The Aston Martin DB10 for new film Spectre

007 will once again drive an Aston Martin in the forthcoming James Bond film Spectre. On this occasion it will be the stunning Aston Martin DB10.

====== 822 ========

CIO STEPHEN JONES SAYS COMMODITY PRICES UNDER PRESSURE

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 823 ========

NEAR MISS AS TESLA AUTOPILOT TRIES TO SWERVE INTO ANOTHER CAR

Video: Near miss as Tesla autopilot tries to swerve into another car

Near miss as Tesla autopilot tries to swerve into another car in the road.

====== 824 ========

WHY SHOULD I BOTHER WITH FINANCIAL ADVICE FOR RETIREMENT?

Video: Why should I bother with financial advice for retirement?

Adrian Walker, retirement planning expert at Old Mutual Wealth, joins This is Money editor Simon Lambert to discuss how to make a good plan for retirement.

====== 825 ========

INVESTING SHOW: RELIABLE BIG DIVIDEND SHARES AND BEST EMERGING MARKETS

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 826 ========

GOLD IS A HEDGE AGAINST INFLATION AND ULTIMATE SAFE HAVEN

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 827 ========

JAGUAR SPORTS CAR PERFORMS WORLD'S LARGEST EVER LOOP-THE-LOOP

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 828 ========

THE INVESTING SHOW: STOCK MARKET STORM WINNERS AND LOSERS

Video: The Investing Show: Stock market storm winners and losers

Simon Lambert, Richard Hunter and Nick Batsford discuss the winners and the losers from the stock market storm and what the Fed's rate decision means for investors.

====== 829 ========

THE INVESTING SHOW: HOW TO INVEST IN BONDS SAFELY

Video: The Investing Show: How to invest in bonds safely

Christine Johnson, of Old Mutual, joins Simon Lambert, of This is Money, to discuss why investors should still hold bonds and how to navigate the dangers in the market.

====== 830 ========

NICK TRAIN AND TERRY SMITH ON INVESTING LIKE WARREN BUFFET

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 831 ========

INTRODUCING THE NEW ROLLS ROYCE DAWN CONVERTIBLE

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 832 ========

BENTLEY UNVEIL THEIR NEW 4X4: THE STUNNING 187MPH BENTAYGA

Video: Potential fresh wheels for the Queen? Bentley's new 4x4

Has Bentley delivered the ultimate 4x4? New Bentayga will hit 187mph and costs as much as TWO Range Rovers.

====== 833 ========

THE INVESTING SHOW: TEN DIVIDEND SHARES FOR THE NEXT FIVE YEARS

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 834 ========

INVESTING SHOW: WHY ASIA IS A GREAT OPPORTUNITY

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 835 ========

THIS IS MONEY: SHOULD YOU FIX YOUR MORTGAGE NOW?

Video: This is Money: Should you fix your mortgage now? (related)

This is Money's Simon Lambert explains why now is a good time to consider a fixed rate mortgage

====== 836 ========

THE PENSIONS ADVISORY SERVICE WARNS ABOUT PENSION SCAMS

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 837 ========

HAVE YOU BEEN MIS-SOLD A PACKAGED BANK ACCOUNT?

Video: Have you been mis-sold a packaged bank account?

An estimated 11 million people pay as much as £300 a year for current accounts with added benefits - have you been mis-sold?

====== 838 ========

INVESTING SHOW: JAMES HENDERSON ON EXCITING SMALL CAP SHARES

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 839 ========

INVESTING SHOW: SHARES TO WATCH AND HOW WILL A RATE RISE HIT INVESTORS

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 840 ========

HOW MUCH SHOULD I PAY INTO A PENSION BEFORE I RETIRE?

Video: How much should I pay into a pension before I retire?

Should I pay as much of my wages as possible into a pension just before I retire? Alan Higham, of Fidelity, answers.

====== 841 ========

INVESTING SHOW: ARE UK INCOME SHARES EXPENSIVE?

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 842 ========

SIMON LAMBERT EXPLAINS THE ATTRACTION OF BUY-TO-LET

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 843 ========

INVESTING SHOW: WHY VALUE INVESTING BEATS THE MARKET

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 844 ========

INVESTING SHOW: DIVIDEND TIPS AWAY FROM THE USUAL SUSPECTS

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 845 ========

INVESTING SHOW: BEST BANK SHARES AND SHOULD BUY THE FTSE

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 846 ========

HOW TO SPOT A PENSION FRAUDSTER

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 847 ========

DANGER FOR CAUTIOUS INVESTORS, FUND MANAGERS VS TRACKERS, THE POUND AND PROFITS

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 848 ========

BUYING A HOUSE AT AUCTION: TWO BIDDERS FIGHT IT OUT OVER PROPERTY

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 849 ========

MICHAEL LEWIS TALKS ABOUT HIS EXPOSE BOOK ON WALL ST TRADERS

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 850 ========

THE INVESTING SHOW: HOW TO SPOT A MARKET TOP AND MORE

Video: The Investing Show: How to spot a market top and more

Simon Lambert, Richard Hunter and Nick Batsford are joined by Justin Urquhart Stewart, of Seven Investment Management, on the show to help you make more of your money

====== 851 ========

SHOULD I TAKE A TAX-FREE LUMP SUM FROM MY PENSION?

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 852 ========

HALF OF INVESTORS EXPECT UK STOCK MARKET TO FALL OVER NEXT SIX MONTHS

The recent sharp sell-off in shares worldwide has unnerved many UK investors – and half expect the market downturn to persist until the end of the tax year.

This is according to new research by financial services firm Willis Owen, which also found that 17 per cent of UK investors expect the UK stock market to fall by a tenth between now and then.

Some 6 per cent of the 1,000 UK investors surveyed gave a more gloomy outlook, anticipating a correction of more than 15 per cent.

Of those expecting the UK stock market to fall, 71 per cent believe that Brexit will continue to drive UK share prices lower

UK shares have been and remain fragile amid Brexit turmoil. The UK stock market has slipped lower amid the political fall-out from the struggle to get a Brexit plan sorted before the UK leaves the EU on 29 March 2019.

Of those expecting the UK stock market to fall, 71 per cent believe that Brexit will continue to drive UK share prices lower, and two-fifths (42 per cent) intend to reduce their exposure to UK shares and and bonds over the next six months as a result.

Meanwhile, 41 per cent and 37 per cent of respondents believe increased political risk - the danger that the actions of governments might reduce the cash-flows that investors expect from their investments - will be the key reasons behind future falls.

Adrian Lowcock, of Willis Owen said: 'Even after the sell-off in markets in October investors remain nervous of the UK market.

'Our research reveals Brexit is putting off investors, and this is a dominant trend across both professional and retail investors and is reflected in industry wide data.

'However, investors should think longer-term when considering their portfolios. The UK looks good value for long-term investors.'

Projected falls in the UK stock market Percentage fall in UK stock market over the next six months (%) Percentage of UK retail investors who think it will fall by this much between now and April 2019 (%) Up to 5 11 Between 5.1 and 10 22 Between 10.1 and 15 11 Between 15.1 and 20 4 Over 20 2 Dont know 4

Another interesting statistic from the study is 46 per cent of investors believe that any correction in the UK stock market over the next six months could be an attractive long-term investment opportunity.

But following the famous buy low, sell high investment maxim is easier said than done, as market timing is a hard art to master.

Seasoned investors can testify that selling when markets are falling does not usually pay off, but it can also be hard to find the confidence to buy when markets are down substantially

History shows that steep falls are often followed by a bigger rebound over the long term, however.

A separate study by investment management firm Quilter Cheviot found a person who invested £10,000 in the stock market through the average UK equity fund in March 1993 would now have £58,755 if they were brave enough to leave it untouched.

This figure takes into account loss that would have occurred during the global financial crisis of a decade ago.

Two UK funds tipped to prosper

For investors looking to invest more in the UK, Lowcock favours Merian UK Smaller Companies and Man GLG Undervalued Assets funds which levy ongoing charges of 1.03 per cent and 0.9 per cent respectively.

He said: The Merian fund has one of the most highly regarded small and mid-cap teams, headed by Dan Nickols who is the manager of this fund.

'Companies must demonstrate one or more of the following characteristics: the ability to grow earnings faster than the market average for an extended period of time; the scope to generate a positive surprise; or the potential to be re-rated relative to the market.

'A pragmatic approach is taken to valuation, with various ratios and timescales used depending upon the situation. This flexible approach allows growth, value, and recovery names to be held, but the portfolio has tended to show a growth bias.'

When it comes to the Man GLG Undervalued Assets, Lowcock says fund manager Henry Dixon and co-manager Jack Barrat believe they can add value through thorough analysis of company balance sheets to understand a company’s true, 'real-world' assets and liabilities.

He adds: 'They seek to identify two types of stock: those trading below their estimate of the company’s asset value and those where the company’s profit stream is being undervalued relative to the cost of capital, in their opinion.

'The portfolio has a value bias relative to peers, but it does steer the managers towards elements of quality and positive earnings momentum. Dixon has demonstrated his ability to consistently execute the investment process with discipline.'

====== 853 ========

GOVERNMENT BACKS NEW PARKING CODE OF PRACTICE BILL

A new bill will be introduced to help motorists challenge unfair charges issued by unscrupulous private parking firms, after it got the green light in the House of Commons today.

The Parking (Code of Practice) Bill, which will deliver on a Tory manifesto commitment to tackle rogue parking operators, received Government backing after MPs recognised that drivers need an easier process to appeal tickets being dished out in supermarkets, train stations and pubs and other locations.

The code of practice written into the bill is also expected to include a raft of new rules, including a 10 minute grace period for drivers who overstay the parking restrictions and a £100 fine limit.

Victory for motorists: The bill will see the introduction of a 'one-stop shop' appeals process for drivers fighting unfair charges from rogue private parking firms

The Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government said the parking bill would help the increasing number of motorists who have been 'complaining of inconsistent practices, substandard signage, confusing appeal processes and intimidating payment letters'.

The bill will see the installment of a new single, independent appeals service for drivers to seek if they do receive a charge in the post and tackle the shocking practice that's rife in the industry and resulted in uproar from drivers.

But despite tougher new rules the DVLA will still be able to sell on drivers' details to parking firms, something that is estimated to make it £16.2million this year.

If passed in the House of Lords, the bill will cover England, Wales, and Scotland – creating consistency for motorists anywhere in Britain.

Stop parking sharks This is Money has been campaigning for change after receiving hundreds of emails from motorists who have told us about the unfair tickets they've received. And while we welcome the introduction of this new bill to help make it easier to challenge these fines, we remain disappointed that the DVLA continues to be given free rein to sell motorists' details to private parking firms without the consent of drivers. In a world in which our right to privacy has been heightened by GDPR rules, we ask how is it that the DVLA is allowed to pass on this information without permission?

Local government minister, Rishi Sunak, said: 'Millions of drivers use private car parks every day, and far too many of them are receiving unjust fines at the hands of rogue firms.

'We need a fairer, clearer and more consistent system that puts the brake on the unfair practices being experienced by too many drivers.

'I am delighted that MPs have unanimously backed these changes and that the Government is on track to create a better system for our nation's motorists.'

Motoring organisations have given their support for the amendment to create a single appeals service.

Steve Gooding, Director of the RAC Foundation, said: 'We particularly welcome the proposal for a single, independent appeals service, which, together with a single, clear code of practice should establish a better, clearer framework and a level playing field that is fairer for all.'

The DVLA is set to make over £16 million this year by selling motorists' details to private parking firms overseeing car parks at supermarkets, pubs, restaurants and other locations

A stringent new Code of Practice will also be developed by the secretary of state James Brokenshire in conjunction with motorists' groups and other experts, including conservative MP Sir Greg Knight.

The secretary of state would also have the power to raise a levy on the sector to fund the production, publishing and enforcement of the code.

We need a fairer, clearer and more consistent system that puts the brake on the unfair practices being experienced by too many drivers Local government minister, Rishi Sunak

Andrew Pester, the British Parking Association's Chief Executive, said: 'We welcome Sir Greg Knight's amendments which chime with our call for a single standard body, single code of practice and a single independent appeals service.

'This framework provides a unique opportunity to deliver greater consistency and consumer confidence – and as a not-for-profit association we are focused on working closely with government and others, including consumer groups, to push for a positive outcome for all.'

This is Money hopes further action will be taken to restrict the DVLA from selling motorists' details to unprincipled private parking companies.

Get in touch Have you been hit by an unfair parking charge? Do you, or have you in the past, worked for a private parking firm? Get in touch: editor@thisismoney.co.uk

This has become a profit generator for the government agency, which is set to make a staggering £16.2 million from selling driver details for £2.50 each this financial year.

It made just over £14 million by selling motorists' information to parking firms last year, who are installing automatic number plate recognition cameras at stations, supermarkets, shopping centres, pubs, restaurants, hotels and more to catch drivers.

We are also calling for the DVLA to initiate investigations when large numbers of applications are made for a specific location frequently to see if the charges are fair.

====== 854 ========

YOUNG WORKERS RECKON THEY ARE BEST AT SAVING FOR RETIREMENT.

The younger generation believe they are best at saving for retirement but risk a false sense of security by overestimating their pensions, according to a new report.

BlackRock’s new DC Pulse survey revealed that 39 per cent of savers between the ages of 25 and 34 believe they are saving enough for their retirement.

This is opposed to just 18 per cent of 45 to 54-year-olds and 31 per cent of 55 to 64-year-olds, with the introduction of auto-enrolment for pensions being thanked for the increase in the younger generation putting away money each month.

However, the research also discovered that many believed they had better pensions than they actually did - thinking income would be guaranteed by employers rather than dependent on the stock market.

Younger generation are saving more than other age groups but still not as much as they think

The survey spoke to 1,000 UK residents, aged 25 to 69 years old, who are earning £10,000 or more and who have, or are, contributing to a defined contribution workplace scheme.

Over a third (35 per cent) of young savers believe that they have a defined benefit pension scheme with their current employer, but the latest Office for National Statistics figures reveal the number is much closer to 20 per cent for under 29 year olds.

The survey also found that 45 per cent of 25-34 year olds believe there should ideally be a contribution of 15 per cent or more into their pension, paid in between them and their employer. But, in reality, just 29 per cent are currently doing so.

A defined benefit pension scheme is where an employer takes responsibility for providing an income in retirement, with the amount someone receives based on how many years they have worked for their employer and the salary they have earned.

An employer has to make sure that there is enough money at the time of your retirement to pay your pension income. Employees can also be asked to contribute.

In contrast, defined contribution schemes see workers and their employers contribute to a pension, which is invested to deliver a pot that they must use for retirement income. The eventual size of that pot depends on what goes in and how investments perform, while the income from can fluctuate.

The introduction of auto-enrolment for pensions has helped young people save for their future

Savers in their thirties put more of their income away A report by Charter Savings Bank has reinforced the fact that the younger generation are working harder at saving. It discovered that savers in their 30s are putting away 58 per cent of their disposable income a month, which comes out at £280 a month - much higher than the national average of 42 per cent, which averages out at £190 a month. UK AGE GROUPS AND HOW MUCH THEY SAVE Age Group Monthly disposable income Average saved each month Average saved each year % of disposable income saved each month Average total savings 20's £361 £191 £2,290 53% £5,440 30's £486 £280 £3,364 58% £10,212 40's £488 £213 £2,557 44% £20,675 50's £389 £136 £1,634 35% £30,105 60's £457 £159 £1,904 35% £39,968 70's £506 £145 £1,735 29% £44,542 UK £452 £190 £2,291 42% £23,629 Source: Charter Savings Bank Most people said that the main reason for saving was in case of needing money for emergencies. However, having enough cash for holidays was the second most common reason given. Paul Whitlock, director of savings at Charter Savings Bank, said: 'Everyone will have different priorities for how much they can afford to save and what they are saving for, depending on what stage of life they're at. 'The important thing is to try and save as much as you can afford to, from as early an age as possible, and seek out the best rates possible. It may not seem worth putting a small sum away each month, but it's a brilliant habit to get into, plus that money soon grows.'

Claire Felgate, head of UK defined contribution at BlackRock said: 'According to the ONS, more than 9.5 million people have now been enrolled into a pension scheme, but we worry that for younger savers, it's given them a false sense of security.

'While they are the most likely age group to feel confident their retirement savings are on track, they need to factor in a much longer life than previous generations.'

Although many young savers are optimistic about saving, they admitted that they were more likely to prioritise saving for a 'rainy day' fund (71 per cent) as opposed to paying into their nest egg (52 per cent).

A further 44 per cent also admit to putting off saving or investing for their long term plans as they believe it is 'silly to focus on something so far away'.

More worryingly, just 14 per cent of those surveyed knew how much was in their defined contribution pension.

BlackRock said it believes that those in the younger generation should be saving more towards their retirement, with an ideal minimum contribution of 15 per cent of their earnings, whereas the limit will be at 8 per cent from April 2019.

However, only 2 per cent said, that should they have an extra £200 month, they would pay it into their pension.

Felgate added: 'Given the level of trust people generally place with their workplace, employers can play a massive role in helping young savers to contribute more to their pension and help bridge the gap between what they are actually putting away and what they would ideally like to put away.'

====== 855 ========

COUPLE WIN STATE PENSION CREDITS AND HMRC APOLOGY OVER CHILD BENEFIT 'MISTAKES'

A couple have won four years of state pension credits and £250 compensation from HMRC after a 'crazy' battle to set their child benefit records straight.

The pair had reached deadlock in the lengthy dispute and were threatening to take their fight to the Parliamentary Ombudsman, when the taxman abruptly backed down and apologised for 'several mistakes' it made in the case.

Anna Smith will be potentially tens of thousands of pounds better off in retirement, after she and husband John (not their real names) forced HMRC into a u-turn.

It marks a second victory struck by parents since This is Money launched a campaign against the unfairness of parents getting smaller state pensions after being caught in child benefit red tape or making simple errors over forms.

Child benefit: This is Money is campaigning on behalf of parents facing a smaller state pension due to red tape or simple errors on forms

But John condemns the treatment he and his wife have received since 2013, when Anna opted out of child benefit because his earnings meant they no longer qualified for the payments.

That includes his complaint letters going ignored, and a wrangle over how and when they notified HMRC about a change of address from Spain back to the UK, which This is Money reported on previously.

'There are clearly big issues in that department. I can't believe how many women must have suffered injustice over this. To have to fight for four years over this is crazy,' says John.

He adds that he doesn't think £250 is fair compensation for how he had to push for his wife's rights, saying: 'While we have accepted it I don't think it's sufficient. I do feel for the other women who clearly have been messed about.'

Have you lost state pension by not signing up for child benefits or filling form in wrong? If this has happened to you, contact tanya.jefferies@thisismoney.co.uk and tell us your story.

An HMRC spokesperson says: 'Mrs Smith ceased to be entitled to child benefit because she moved overseas.

'Following our investigation, we uncovered that several mistakes had been made handling her claim when she returned to England. In light of these errors we have apologised and put her case right.' Read HMRC's full response below.

John says a reader question answered by This is Money's pension columnist Steve Webb in January made him sure that 'as a matter of principle' his wife was entitled to state pension credits.

John says he is grateful to the former Pensions Minister, who is now director of policy at Royal London and has highlighted the issue of parents unfairly losing state pension for several years.

Webb says about this case: 'I am delighted to hear that Anna has finally been awarded the state pension credits to which she should always have been entitled.

'It is quite wrong that she has had to battle like this, and right that HMRC have acknowledged their poor service.

'The recent changes to child benefit have led to thousands of mothers missing out on National Insurance credits and HMRC should be systematically contacting those mothers and making sure they claim this crucial help.'

Last week, Webb launched a petition to win back vital credits towards the state pension for mums who fail to claim child benefit.

He says that with each passing year more and more mothers are choosing not to claim child benefit because high earnings mean they no longer qualify for it.

Controversial changes reduced the entitlement for those earning £50,000-plus a year or wiped it out entirely for those earning £60,000-plus.

Those who failed to sign up when new rules began in 2013 could have lost six years of state pension credits by now.

Each annual credit is worth around £244 per year in state pension, or £4,880 over the course of a typical 20-year retirement. But current rules only allow parents to backdate credits by three months when they make a belated child benefit claim.

However, the Smiths' case was different because Anna originally signed up for child benefit when the couple had twins in 2010. Parents who were already in the system but opted out after 2013 still automatically receive state pension credits.

According to HMRC, the case also hinges on Anna moving overseas.

Read more below about the child benefit rules, and what to do if you think you've lost state pension credits.

How did Anna and John win their case - and could it help other parents?

HMRC initially refused to reinstate Anna's credits as we previously reported, so the couple were planning to take their case to the Parliamentary Ombudsman.

That is the final stop for complaints that have not been resolved by Government departments including HMRC, the NHS or other public organisations, though you have to gain the support of your MP before you can use the free service.

However, John says he then got a call from a staff member in 'Tier 2 Complaints' at HMRC, who told him Anna would be given four years' worth of credits and £250 would be credited to the couple's bank account.

He reports the staff member was 'very apologetic', said there were 'flaws' in the way the issue had been handled, admitted correspondence HMRC received from the couple had not been addressed, and that the case should have come to Tier 2 Complaints sooner.

John goes on: 'She said I can tell you that there will be action taken and new guidance going forward. There were incorrect judgments by various people.

'My wife was lucky. I was persistent. As a matter of principle I knew my wife was entitled to this.'

John offers the following advice to other parents who have lost state pension credits: 'You have got to be extremely persistent. Write to Tier 2 Complaints team which I didn't even know existed. Don't accept rejections you get.

'Keep all your correspondence. If necessary go through the Parliamentary Ombudsman route. Don't be afraid of asking for compensation because clearly there is a pot of money there.'

Mum and campaigner Emma Maslin: 'This is a great result for this family'

Emma Maslin, a parent who writes a blog for families called The Money Whisperer, lost four years of state pension credits by not claiming child benefit that she didn't qualify for after her daughter was born.

However, Emma was never originally in the child benefit system - unlike Anna, who first claimed before 2013 - and only got three months of credits backdated when she belatedly filled in the form.

She says of the Smiths' case: 'This is a great result for this family. It frustrates me however that they needed to threaten to take their case to the Parliamentary Ombudsman in order for HMRC to sit up and do something about it.

'If HMRC are prepared to back-date state pension credits on a case-by-case basis, it gives me hope that they may consider doing a proper review for ALL of us who have been affected by opting out.

'After all, the numbers are only going to grow; people still aren’t understanding how the system works, and continue to opt out of child benefit leaving themselves without valuable state pension credits.'

What does HMRC say about this case and the child benefit rules?

'In recognition of the mistakes HMRC made with this particular case involving Mr and Mrs Smith, we chose to reinstate her credits and pay £250 into her bank account by way of an apology for the distress caused,' says HMRC.

How does moving overseas affect child benefit claims? The rules depend on a number of factors, such as where you move to, your reason for being abroad and how long you remain away. Read more here.

On the wider issue, it says: 'No-one should miss out on their full state pension entitlement and the Government has always urged families in the UK to claim child benefit to help protect their future right to the state pension.

'Parents are advised to claim at the birth of their child, through gov.uk and through partners such as Citizens Advice Bureau.

'If your circumstances change at any time please let HMRC know so we can help make sure you pay the right amount of tax at the right time as well as receive any benefits due.'

Parents who signed up for child benefit before the rules changed in 2013, and then subsequently opted out because they no longer qualified for the payments, are still automatically awarded credits.

This is important because Government figures show the number of families claiming child benefit dropped dramatically following the 2013 changes.

Dramatic fall: Many people who previously claimed child benefit stopped doing so after 2013

In cases where people had claimed prior to this, HMRC says: 'When people contact the child benefit office and ask for their payments to be stopped, providing they are still entitled to claim child benefit, they will only be opted-out of receiving payment and they will continue to receive credits.'

The situation is different if a parent terminates a child benefit claim because they are no longer entitled - for example, if they are no longer responsible for a child, or move abroad for longer than allowed - but later make a new claim because they become entitled to it again.

When this happens, claims are only backdated by three months as they are considered essentially ‘new’.

====== 856 ========

TOP CREDIT CARDS TO GET NOW FOR INTEREST-FREE SPENDING AT CHRISTMAS AND REWARDS

The John Lewis Christmas TV ad is up and London's Oxford Street lights are on, officially marking the start of the festive madness.

While we are not ones to jump on the Christmas bandwagon too early at This is Money, if there is one thing you should think about in advance, it’s how you are going to pay for all of the extra spending this year.

For many households, the answer will be with a credit card to help spread the cost while others will use the period of high spending to earn a tidy sum in cashback or rewards.

With this in mind we have put together a list of the best cards to use this Christmas – and when you need to apply by.

Feeling festive? Christmas lights are up on Oxford street already

Most rewards cards come with introductory bonuses handed to you if you spend a certain amount, such as a bundle of airmiles or a boosted cashback rate.

Just before Christmas is therefore a great time to sign up as the expensive time of year will help you reach these minimum spending thresholds.

For those aiming to make the festive period more affordable, a 0 per cent interest credit card is the best option - allowing you to spread the cost over several months without your debt inflated further by interest.

Best for spending

Joint first - Sainsbury’s Bank

The Sainsbury’s Bank Dual Offer Credit Card comes with 29 months 0 per cent interest on spending (and balance transfers).

That’s just over two years to clear purchases before you're charged interest. Standard interest is set at 19.95 APR per cent so again, do make sure you clear it in time. It also comes with reward points on spending.

A current promotion is offering 750 bonus points each time you spend £35 or more on Sainsbury’s shopping in your first two months – up to 7,500 Nectar points, worth £37.50.

You also get two Nectar points for every £1 you spend on Sainsbury's shopping and fuel plus one point per £5 spent elsewhere.

Nectar credit cards are not the most generous of supermarket rewards schemes – each point is worth 0.5p - but it’s a nice little bonus if you do shop at the supermarket frequently.

Time to arrive: Seven to 10 days after successful application.

Joint first - Tesco Bank

Just behind Sainsbury’s is Tesco Bank’s 28-month Purchase Credit Card.

While a slightly shorter deal, Tesco’s Clubcard scheme is a little more generous, and certainly a better pick if you are likely to shop in its stores.

You get five Clubcard points in total for every £4 you spend on the card in Tesco stores or on petrol and one point for every £8 spent elsewhere.

One point is worth 1p if spent in store at Tesco and 3p if redeemed using Tesco's Clubcard rewards vouchers.

Again you will need to keep on top of your repayments as interest jumps to 19.9 per cent once the purchase deal ends.

Time to arrive: You’ll receive your card within five to seven days after your application is accepted.

Runner up - There are a whole host of purchase deals out there. We have picked some more of the top deals in out complete guide to credit cards for spending.

It must be Christmas? Sir Elton John features in the John Lewis advert this year

How to spread the cost of Christmas wisely Think carefully before you apply - The best deals on the market, including those in this roundup are naturally going to be the most popular. This means the providers have the pick of the bunch when it comes to who they will accept and those without a spotless credit history may miss out. In reality only 51 per cent of successful applicants need to be offered the advertised deals, so even if you make it past the first hurdle, you could be given an offer with a shorter 0 per cent promotion or higher interest rate. Set up a direct debit before you spend – First off, even credit cards with 0 per cent promotions attached require monthly minimum deposits. Remember to clear the whole balance before standard interest kicks in, you will need to pay more than the minimum when possible. The best way to do this is to leave the card at home, look at the amount owed and calculate how much you need to repay each month to clear it. Then set up a direct debit for that amount. Be wary of rewards and cashback - while we have included this type of card in our roundup, you should only consider these if you know you will handle your debt sensibly. Tempting rewards are designed to get you to spend more as the higher your spending, the more card companies will potentially earn in interest.

Cashback cards

Can you clear the balance each month? You could consider a top cashback or rewards card.

This is not an exhaustive list – for this, check our guide to the best rewards cards for big spenders.

To make the most of these cards, you should aim to put as much of your spending on them. They also come with slightly higher than average interest so you MUST repay each month, or they are not worth having at all.

First place - American Express

The American Express Platinum Cashback Credit Card costs £25 per year, but for that you can earn up to 5 per cent in the first three months (up to £125) – perfectly timed for Christmas.

After that you earn 1 per cent up to £10,000 and up to 1.25 per cent after that.

As with most rewards card it comes with a higher than average interest rate on spends at 22.9 per cent (28.2 APR per cent) so make sure you clear the balance each month.

When we crunched the numbers a £1,000 monthly spend earns £195 in the first year after fees, and £100 every year after that.

Anyone likely to spend under £9,000 per year on the card would be better off with the fee-free version - the Platinum Everyday Credit Card.

Time to arrive: Takes up to 10 days from application to arrive.

Runner up - Tandem

App-only bank Tandem offers 0.5 per cent cashback on all spends on its cashback credit card. It carries no annual fees and charges 18.9 APR per cent interest.

The card also benefits from no overseas spending or withdrawal fees.

Festive spending: Christmas is typically the most expensive time of year for households

Virgin Atlantic: The revamped credit card sign up bonus offers 10,000 Flying Club Miles

Best for rewards

Our current top pick for airline rewards is from Virgin Atlantic, thanks to a boosted sign-up offer.

But if you are a loyal British Airways passenger instead you can consider the BA American Express Premium Plus or BA American Express Credit Card.

First place - Virgin Atlantic

Virgin Money has just upped the sign-up bonus on its free Virgin Atlantic Rewards card.

It offers 5,000 Flying Club Miles after your first purchase within three months. If you spend £1,000 within that time, it will hand over an extra 5,000 miles.

Over the festive period reaching this limit is likely to be fairly easy for most families once you factor in food costs, presents and Christmas gatherings with family and friends.

If you spend £20,000 you get a free companion ticket or premium upgrade - this is pretty high, but it could be feasible if you use the card for home improvements or big ticket items.

You get 0.75 points per £1 spent on the card, or 1.25 per £1 spent on Virgin holidays or Virgin Atlantic flights.

The card comes with an APR of 22.9 per cent so make sure to clear the balance each month to avoid interest.

A better option for big spenders is the The Virgin Atlantic Rewards+ .

It comes with an annual fee of £160, but you get up to 25,000 miles thanks to its boosted new customer offer.

This requires a £1,500 spend within the first three months, again, possible over Christmas.

It's easier to get the companion voucher with this one, needing a smaller £10,000 spent. Swiping your card gets you 1.5 miles per £1 and interest is set at 22.9 per cent on top of the monthly fee.

While the card is expensive, if you qualify for the bonus points and the companion voucher you will likely be quids in by a few hundred pounds for flights for a couple.

Time to arrive: Both cards arrive within seven to 10 working days if you are approved.

Runner up: John Lewis

Our runner up prize goes to John Lewis' Partnership credit card. While it doesn’t offer the most lucrative deal there are many people out there who like to shop at Waitrose and John Lewis. If you fall into this camp it could be worth applying for the Partnership credit card.

It’s currently offering £30 in John Lewis vouchers when you spend £250 within 90 days plus you earn 1 point per £1 spent in stores and per £5 elsewhere. It carries an APR of 18.9 per cent.

An honourable mention also goes to the M&S Reward Plus Credit Card. It only offers six months 0 per cent on purchases (19.9 APR per cent after) but it comes with a 2,000 M&S point bonus and double points on all M&S shopping for the first 12 months.

Top deals for clearing Christmas debts

If you don’t get round to applying for a new credit card before Christmas, a balance transfer credit card is a useful tool to help spread the cost of clearing any debt build up on an existing credit card.

First Place - Barclaycard

Our top pick is the Barclaycard 31-month balance transfer Platinum credit card deal, offering the longest 0 per cent transfer deal on the market and with a relatively low 1.45 per cent handling fee.

To get the deal you must shift the debt over within the first 60 days. You will pay a 3 per cent handling fee initially but Barclaycard then refunds you 2.05 per cent.

The card comes with six months 0 per cent on purchases. After the 0 per cent terms end, interest is charged at 19.9 per cent so make sure you have cleared the balance before then.

Time to arrive: The card takes seven to 14 days to arrive if you are successful.

Runner up - Sainsbury's Bank

Sainsbury's Bank's balance transfer credit card offers 30 months 0 per cent interest if you transfer a balance to the card within the first three months.

It's slightly shorter than the Barclaycard deal, and it comes with a slightly higher fee but it's second in the best buy tables.

You pay 3 per cent in handling fees for a balance transfer initially, but receive a refund of 1.5 per cent.

====== 857 ========

LATEST SERIES OF ESCAPE TO THE CHATEAU SEES DICK AND ANGEL UNVEIL STRIKING COPPER BATH

It's a mantra they've stuck to ever since they swapped their two-bedroom flat in Essex for a derelict chateau in the north-west of France.

And in the latest series of Escape to the Chateau, Dick and Angel continue to 'reduce, reuse and recycle' as they indulge their love of vintage items.

Dick told us ideally the couple would love to live a 'zero waste' lifestyle, but although that is hard they try to reuse as much as possible. And in this weekend's episode, the lovable couple unveil the latest suite in the chateau, which includes a recycled copper bath.

In the latest episode of Escape to the Chateau, Dick and Angel focus on their love of recycling

Star of the show: The couple install a recycled copper bath at the chateau

In an exclusive interview with MailOnline Property, Dick - a retired lieutenant colonel - explained how he would like to live a 'zero-waste' life.

However he said: 'It is truly difficult to live a zero-waste life. But we are aware that every time you spend money, it has an impact.

'I cannot say we are totally green at our chateau. But we are talking about reducing, reusing and recycling - and we try to do that wherever we can.'

Dick and Angel have spent almost four years renovating their chateau, which today includes a walled garden full of vegetables

The striking copper bath looks impressive against the dark green tiles

The bathroom with the copper bath also includes a relaxed seating area and footstool

This is the fifth series of the popular Channel 4 show in which Dick and Angel strike a more comfortable work-life balance after spending almost four years renovating the chateau in Pays de Loire.

Dick said: 'We tend to use vintage and quality items. For example, there is almost nothing in our dining room that is new.'

He added: 'When you look at the materials you use, you need to look at the energy used to make them.

'We could not afford to initially install all the green items we wanted to, but we have put in the basics so that we can make the changes later on. For example, the pipes are in so that we can install a biomass heating system later on.

'The long-term goal is to make the changes... to reduce, reuse and recycle.'

The new potagerie suite includes wallpaper thoughtfully designed by Angel

The new suite is unveiled in the latest episode of Escape to the Chateau on Sunday

The major renovation works at the chateau in France are drawing to a close

Dozen of windows were refurbished at the chateau, but they will eventually need to be replaced with double-glazing to 'stop wasting heat', according to Dick.

He said: 'Angel has learnt to put on a jumper. Living in the chateau is nothing like modern living. You cannot turn up the heating dial a few clicks.

'We don't heat the whole chateau in the winter. Four years in and Angela has hardened up to that.'

Previous episodes have seen various parts of the chateau renovated, including this room on the top floor

The couple have built a floating dome, which they rent out to guests

A love of vintage! Most of the furniture throughout the chateau is recycled

The latest episode this Sunday reveals their latest room makeover – the Potagerie suite, which includes wallpaper thoughtfully designed by Angel to reflect the edible plants in the chateau's walled garden.

Dick said: 'We are into seasonal eating and grow our own stuff in the garden. That is important for sustainability.

'All of the food that we use for the weddings we hold at the chateau is local. We have 1,000 guests through the doors every year and so could not feed them only from our walled garden.

'We look at what the chateau is giving us to put into our home,' he concluded.

The couple have self-published a book about their journey called 'The Chateau: The Beginning' and the latest series of Escape to the Chateau on Channel 4 this Sunday at 8pm.

====== 858 ========

SUPERMARKETS CUT THE PRICE OF FUEL AGAIN BY 1P FOR A LITRE OF PETROL AND 2P FOR DIESEL

Asda has trimmed the cost of fuel at its 319 forecourts across the UK for the fourth time in as many weeks.

The supermarket chain - along with Tesco - has promised the cut 1p a litre off unleaded and 2p off diesel in response to falling wholesale prices for both fuels, with Morrisons and Sainsbury's vowing to do the same from Saturday.

Just last week Asda was the first of the big four supermarket fuel retailers to slash 3p off the price of both fuels, sparking similar cuts by competitors.

Fourth fuel cut in four weeks: Asda has lopped another 1p off the price of petrol and 2p off a litre of diesel from Friday

Asda's announcement to yet again reduce fuel prices means drivers will pay no more than 118.7p for a litre of unleaded and 129.7p for diesel at any of its fuel stations from Black Friday.

The reduction means diesel has fallen below £1.30 per litre for the first time in three months following 19 consecutive months of increasing prices.

According to the latest fuel price data, the supermarket will be offering substantial savings on the rest of the market from today (Friday 23 November).

The RAC's Fuel Watch figures show the average cost of petrol across the country on Wednesday was 126.8p and diesel was 135.6p.

That means drivers are saving over 8p a litre on unleaded and 5p on diesel if they fill up at Asda today.

Based on an average-size family car with a 55-litre tank, that works out at a £4.40 saving if you brim your vehicle with petrol and £2.75 if you fill up with diesel.

The company's senior fuel buyer, Dave Tyrer, said: 'Further decreases in the wholesale market mean we are able to reduce our prices again, with Asda's unleaded price dropped by up to 9p per litre since the end of October, and now we're seeing the diesel price drop below £1.30 for the first time in three months.'

Tesco will reduce the price of a litre of petrol by 1p and diesel by 2p from 5pm on Friday, it confirmed

Tesco will also slash the same amount off a litre of petrol and diesel at its forecourts from 5pm on Friday.

Morrisons and Sainsbury's announced they would be doing the same - cutting the cost of unleaded by 1p per litre and diesel by up to 2p per litre - but delayed the reductions at their filling stations until Saturday.

Ashley Myers, Morrisons head of fuel, said: 'With oil prices continuing to fall, we can now make the third cut in fuel prices this month.'

David Pegg, fuel buying manager for Sainsbury’s, also commented: 'At this busy, festive time of year we are committed to helping our customers live well for less and that’s why we’re dropping the price of unleaded petrol and diesel from tomorrow.

'Whether in store or at the pumps, customers know they will get fantastic value with Sainsbury’s.'

The supermarket was the first to cut fuel prices by 3p a litre last week, sparking competitors to do the same

Morrisons confirmed it will reduce petrol prices by 1p a litre and up to 2p for diesel from Saturday

RAC fuel spokesperson Simon Williams said it was great to see motorists benefiting from more reductions but added that they now 'need to be followed swiftly by other retailers so the UK average price comes down'.

'After so much of 2018 being characterised by rising fuel prices, it's heartening to see prices falling just as we enter the expensive festive period,' he added.

The RAC has consistently been calling for fuel retailers to reduce pump prices with more urgency, claiming that they are quick to inflate forecourt charges when wholesale prices rise but delay reductions at filling stations when they fall.

The failure to correlate pump prices with wholesale falls ultimately hits the pockets of motorists and sees fuel providers generate increased profits.

Over the past six months, the cost of filling up a typical 55-litre family car that runs on petrol or diesel has risen by around £6.

Williams said: 'While this is obviously good needs, it's disappointing that it has not come sooner as the wholesale price of petrol has been falling for weeks.'

====== 859 ========

MORTGAGE RULES ARE BLOCKING FIRST-TIME BUYERS AND CREATING A GENERATION OF 'RENTAL PRISONERS'

Hopeful first-time buyers are being unfairly blocked from getting on the property ladder by regulators leaving them stranded in the rental market, a damning new report has claimed.

The report, commissioned by trade body the Building Societies Association, warns strict affordability rules brought in after the financial crash are now stopping young people from getting approved for mortgages they could afford.

The BSA has urged others to join it in challenging the regulator to relax these rules in what it says is a bid to help first-time buyers.

The BSA said: '[Stress tests] deliver a form of financial stability, but do so by denying many young households the opportunity to buy a property that they are likely to be able to afford.'

Affordability rules are stopping young people from getting on the housing ladder say the BSA

How is mortgage affordability calculated?

Before the financial crisis, mortgage affordability was calculated using income multiples, meaning you could borrow up to a multiple of your salary. This was usually three times one person's salary, or two-and-a-half times a couple's salary.

This was extended over the years, with some lenders offering mortgages worth up to six times a person's salary at the height of the 2000s property boom.

The financial crash ended this practice and affordability-based lending became the norm from 2014.

These new rules include 'stress tests' on a borrower's ability to repay their mortgage if they lose their job or interest rates go up.

Now, the lender looks at your monthly income and outgoings, as well as stress testing whether you'd be able to keep paying the mortgage if interest rates go up or in the event of a life changing event.

It's these stress tests which the BSA says are the main blocker for first-time buyers.

In its report Building on the Bank of Mum and Dad, published this month, the BSA said: 'The main issue is the introduction of stress tests, where in a market where most mortgage rates are below 3 per cent, a stress is applied which requires that the mortgage be affordable at rates more than twice this level.

'Such a level of prudence risks freezing many would-be first-time buyers out of home ownership.

'The situation is aggravated by the rules in which no consideration can be given to the likelihood of income growth, even if this is prescribed in certain professions.'

The BSA claims that one consequence of this has been to create ‘rental prisoners’, where someone who is paying rent at £800 a month, for example, cannot get a mortgage for £500 a month on affordability grounds.

'This makes no sense to the general public,' it said.

Are lending rules really blocking first-time buyers?

Despite low mortgage rates, barriers to home ownership remain high as a combination of high house prices and rents make saving for a deposit incredibly difficult for many.

Earlier this year estate agents Hamptons International revealed that the average single first-time buyer who started saving for a 15 per cent deposit in 2018 would not be able to buy a home until 2028 in certain parts of England and Wales.

Thirty ago, full-time employees could typically expect to spend 3.6 times their annual earnings on purchasing a house, according to data from the Office for National Statistics.

Today, homebuyers can expect to spend 9.7 times annual earnings on purchasing a newly built property and 7.6 times their annual earnings on an existing property.

But much of the research out there points to large deposits as the primary reason for the affordability barrier rather than stricter lending rules.

The Financial Conduct Authority and the Bank of England declined to comment.

====== 860 ========

PROBATE FEE RISE TO UP TO £6,000 IS 'ABUSE OF POWER', SAYS ICAEW

The Government is being accused of 'abusing its constitutional powers' over plans to impose stealth death taxes of up to £6,000 on the bereaved.

An influential accountants' group went on the attack over the new probate fee system, joining resistance mounted by a House of the Lords committee, charities, lawyers and financial experts.

The 'drastically' increased fees must be paid upfront by loved ones before they can raise money from someone's estate, for example by selling a house, points out the ICAEW body of chartered accountants.

Probate 'stealth tax': Drastically increased fees must be paid upfront by loved ones before they can raise money from someone's estate

The fees are 'effectively a tax on wealth', which is expected to raise £150million to pay for running the Ministry of Justice, so should be subject to scrutiny like any other tax, it says.

The Government plans to hike the cost of applying for probate, an important step to gain control over an estate after someone dies, from next April by using its existing powers not passing a new law.

Critics claim the new fees system, based on the size of an estate, will be unrelated and in many cases disproportionate to how much it costs to process a probate application - which makes it a tax, requiring legislation.

But the Government disputes this, saying: 'Parliament gave us the power to set these proposed fees, and they will be fully scrutinised and debated by both Houses.'

At present, applying for probate costs a flat fee of £215, or £155 if a lawyer does it on your behalf.

In future, it will cost nothing for estates under £50,000, which is more lenient than the current £5,000 threshold for exemption.

But £250 will be levied on estates worth £300,000-£500,000, rising to £6,000 for those worth £2million-plus. See the chart below.

New probate fees: System will be based on the size of an estate, replacing fees fixed at £215 for all (Source: Ministry of Justice)

The fees are lower than under previous proposals, which were ditched just ahead of last year's election. These would have set the bottom rate at £300 for those inheriting £50,000-£300,000, escalating to £20,000 for estates worth more than £2million.

A joint committee of Parliament made up of MPs and peers claimed the old plan was unlawful, because the fees were equivalant to a new tax.

The Government's latest proposals have sparked a similar outcry, and prompted experts to raise a range of practical issues.

The ICAEW points out higher probate fees will be levied on a entire estate including a house, while at the same time a recent Government allowance now lifts most homes out of inheritance tax.

10 ways to avoid inheritance tax legally How to stop the taxman grabbing some of your estate from your loved ones - read more here.

It adds: 'The probate offices will need to gear themselves up for an influx of applications in advance of the planned increases as executors rush through the process to try and beat the price hike.'

A Ministry of Justice spokesperson says: 'Our system will see thousands of bereaved families paying no probate fees at all – protecting an additional 25,000 estates each year.

'Fees are vital to the effective running of our courts and tribunals, ensuring access to justice and protecting vulnerable victims.'

The Government says the Anti-Social Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act 2014 allows it to propose a fee, or scales of fees, without restrictions on how it does that. The MoJ announcement of its plans is here.

What do finance and legal experts say?

Probate fee hike of 3,771% for biggest estates

'The house of cards the Ministry of Justice has based its probate hike on is coming crashing down as the ground from under them is shifting in every different direction,' said Rachael Griffin, tax and financial planning expert at Quilter, following the ICAEW's intervention today.

'The House of Lords also turned their backs on the MoJ labelling the hike, as it should be, a stealth tax.

'The move from a flat rate fee structure to one which is tiered based on assets could, in theory, have been an acceptable model, but the level of fees imposed are unjustified.

'They are far more expensive then covering the cost of the administration, which is what the fee should be. This current suggestion needs to go through the proper process for introducing a tax, not a back-door conjured up by the MoJ.'

Quilter says that while the Government has ensured fees will never be more than 0.5 per cent of the value of an estate, a £500,000 estate will pay more 10 times more at £2,500, while an estate worth more than £2million could pay up to 3,771 per cent more.

Government should increase MoJ budget instead

When the new fees were first announced this month, Ian Dyall, head of estate planning at Tilney, said: 'This is essentially a form of stealth tax.

'There is no reason that a large estate is any more costly to administer than a smaller estate so the additional cost is pure revenue raising.

'I appreciate that the courts are under pressure financially, but, in my opinion, if they need more money, then the Government should provide them with a higher budget rather than creating these hidden sources of revenue.'

People will gift rather than will assets to avoid fees

James Ward, head of private client at law firm Kingsley Napley, said: 'My greatest fear is that this "tax”" will push people away from using wills as the means for leaving assets on death.

'In order to reduce their estates before death, individuals may turn to gifting during their lifetime which could leave them financially vulnerable or use the survivorship rules of joint property and bank accounts.

'The survivorship rules see property automatically passed on death rather than via the will and therefore the value is not included in the value of the estate at the grant application stage.

'It is very effective in some cases but can be lead to inequality between children and a misunderstanding as to who gets what and not fulfil the deceased’s wishes.'

Government will lose inheritance tax so it's counter-productive

Nick Rucker, national head of tax, trusts and estates at law firm Irwin Mitchell, said: 'The announcement that hugely increased probate fees are going ahead in April - a new "death tax" - is a new tax in all but name and could have serious consequences for the collection of inheritance tax.

'It will present real problems for those who have land but don’t have cash. An example would be widows where the property remained in the name of a late husband.

'In such a case no inheritance tax would be payable but a widow would still need to pay the much higher fee in order to get probate and the property transferred into her name.

'It’s also potentially going to lose a lot of inheritance tax for the government and prove counterproductive as a measure.

'Many providers of "trusts to avoid probate" will get people to pay for setting up trusts in their lifetimes so that probate is not needed when they die.

'There are already such schemes out there, often sold with dubious claims, and it is likely they will be sold even more aggressively now.

'People may be enticed to sign up to them and once set up, there is a risk that these trusts do not pay the proper tax that is due on a death because an inheritance tax account is one of the essential elements of obtaining probate.'

Last attempt to raise fees dropped 'coincidentally' at election time

Matthew Yates, partner at Hunters Solicitors, said: 'This is essentially a form of taxation, being proposed outside of the Budget presumably to attract less attention and scrutiny.

'The last attempt by government to substantially increase probate fees was quietly dropped last year, coincidentally just at the time Theresa May decided to call an election. However there is no likelihood of an imminent poll to allow electors to express their view.

'The Government is probably banking on there being less opposition to an increase which is significantly less than they proposed in 2016.

'Without a concerted effort by practitioners, professional groups and the general public, the Government may well be able to push this increase through.'

====== 861 ========

BITCOIN PRICE NOSEDIVES TO A 13 MONTH LOW: THOSE WHO BOUGHT AT PEAK ARE SITTING ON A 77% LOSS

The price of bitcoin plunged to a 13 month-low, leaving many punters who jumped onto the crytocurrency bandwagon last winter sitting on substantial a paper loss.

Billions of dollars have been wiped from the value of the original and best known cryptocurrency in the past week alone, having tumbled by over 30 per cent to $4,450.

The coin hasn't traded under $5,000 since early October last year when it reached the milestone amid its meteoric run-up to an all-time of $19,343 just before Christmas.

Until last Wednesday, bitcoin had managed to maintain a two month period of relative stability relatively trading between the $6,000 and $7,000

Many may have invested in the coin in hope of make some serious money before it was too late, but those who bought at that peak are now sitting on a 77 per cent loss - and that's before investment fees are taken into account.

To put this into context, it means a £10,000 investment in bitcoin on 17 December 2017 would now be worth just £2,300.

It is not just bitcoin that has seen prices nosedive. Other cryptocurrencies like ethereum, bitcoin cash and litecoin have tumbled by 53 per cent, 54 per cent and 33 per cent to $134, $244 and $33 respectively.

The jury is out over the cause of the latest tumble in crytocurrency market, but much of the speculation has focused on bitcoin cash - an offshoot of bitcoin - splitting into two separate currencies that are now effectively in competition with each other on 15 November.

Bitcoin cash is now known as bitcoin ABC and the new 'fork' is called bitcoin SV.

Another reason being touted is the recent enforcement by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission - America's financial watchdog - against startup cryptocurrency companies Paragon and AirFox for unregistered sales of securities.

Both have been ordered to repay millions of dollars in initial coin offering revenues to investors, as well as pay a civil money penalty of $250,000 (£195,000).

Highs and lows: Bitcoin has fallen to a 13 month low - down from a peak of $19,343 in mid-December last year

Until last Wednesday, bitcoin had managed to maintain a two month period of relative stability relatively trading between the $6,000 and $7,000. But the recent fall will be grist to the mill for those who think that bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies can't be classed as credible investments.

Ben Yearsley of Shore Financial planning said: 'Quite simply it isn’t an investment proposition. It never has been. It’s pure speculation.

'I’m not a fan of cryptocurrencies as they are for short term speculating and trading and not for proper investors.'

Mati Greenspan, analyst at online broker eToro, disagrees. He said: 'In the same way previous cycles have not signalled the end for broader markets, these price movements don’t signal the end for cryptoassets.

'We’re still very much at the beginning of the crypto journey. At this stage, volatility is to be expected.'

He added: 'What we’re seeing now are the after-effects of the unprecedented rise of bitcoin and other cryptoassets seen in 2017. This year is simply a retracement of that.

'The same is happening in broader markets as well where tech stocks, for example, are following a similar pattern.

'As with all markets, if prices reach levels that are higher than can be justified they need to pull back. These cycles can sometimes be accentuated in the crypto market due to the riskier nature of this nascent industry.'

====== 862 ========

POUND ON THE UP AS THERESA MAY TAKES MOMENTOUS STEP IN BRINGING BRITAIN CLOSER TO BREXIT

The pound spiked today as British business got a boost from a major step forward in securing Britain's future trading relationship with the EU.

Reflecting business and market optimism, the pound jumped from $1.2783 just after 9am this morning. At the UK stock market close it was up 0.85 per cent today at $1.2876.

The move came after European Council President Donald Tusk said the 'future framework' outlining terms of a trade deal had been agreed by negotiators.

British businesses have been pushing for a trade deal to be sorted to settle the uncertainty they face over the UK's exit from the EU on March 29, 2019. The alternative no-deal scenario could cause chaos for UK firms that import and export.

The pound spiked as news came through that the European Commission had agreed Theresa's May's proposed EU withdrawal agreement - now the 27 EU countries must give their stamp of approval

British Prime Minister Theresa May made a statement stating she is 'confident' that a good deal is 'in our grasp' and that she will 'deliver it' this weekend.

Mr Tusk's announcement clears the way for a special Brexit summit to go ahead in Brussels on Sunday, when leaders of the 27 remaining EU states are expected to give their stamp of approval to the deal.

The pound also rose 0.62 per cent against the euro to €1.292.

Reaction from business groups and insiders was cautiously optimistic, suggesting that while today's draft agreement is a step forward, more needs to be done to provide true certainty in the long run, particularly for once the transition period ends.

Josh Hardie, deputy director-general of the Confederation of British Industry, said: 'It appears that we’re on the cusp of a much-needed agreement. This shows a deal can be done and businesses across the Continent will be watching this weekend’s EU Summit closely.'

He added: 'The progress made is a credit to both sets of negotiators. But hard work lies ahead. A 20 or so page vision needs to become a 2000-page agreement that secures trade and jobs before the spectre of no deal can be put to rest.'

Mr Tusk announced that the text had been agreed in draft form by EU and UK negotiators and 'agreed in principle at political level.'

Dr Adam Marshall, director of the British Chambers of Commerce, said: 'The reality is that the clarity and precision businesses need to plan for the long term can only be delivered when the details are hammered out and fully agreed.

'There are still big questions to answer - including whether businesses will be able to conduct trade between the UK and the EU without significant new barriers or costs.

'For business, this is just the end of the beginning of the Brexit process. Our trading firms will be paying close attention to what happens next, particularly as the proposals are debated in Parliament over the days ahead.'

Stock market reaction While the pound was up today, it was a different story for the stock market. The blue-chip FTSE 100 index closed down 1.28 per cent at 6,960.3. However, the FTSE 100 often moves in the opposite direction to the pound as it is dominated by major international companies, with big overseas earnings. A fall in the pound boosts profits when translated back into sterling, while a rise dents them The FTSE 250 index, which is often seen as providing a more accurate insight into the health of the economy and British business, closed down 0.3 per cent at 18,530.

Allie Renison, head of Europe and trade policy at the Institute of Directors, told This is Money: 'The objectives outlined are ambitious at a high level but there is a fair amount missing in terms of specifics, and we hope that the final draft following the forthcoming EU summit can rectify this to some extent.

'That said, much of the detail firms are in need of can only be realised through our future trade negotiations once the withdrawal agreement is in place.

'One notable bright spot was the prioritisation of an adequacy decision on data protection.

'Without this the many businesses that send personal data across the Channel would face serious disruption and cost.

'On the other hand, the lack of ambition on arrangements to replace freedom of movement will cause concern.'

Mike Cherry, chairman of the Federation of Small Businesses, thinks there is still uncertainty in respect of how small companies will operate after the end of the transition period

Meanwhile, Tom Kibasi, director of the left-leaning thinktank the Institute for Public Policy Research, has warned that the 'declaration is warm but the message in brutal.'

In a statement published on Twitter, Mr Kibasi said: 'The political declaration confirms that Britain is heading for a hard Brexit - if it can solve the Irish border problem and avoid the backstop.

'The language is warm but the message is brutal: if the UK aligns to EU regulations, trade will be easier.

'But no one should be in any doubt that this declaration rules out frictionless trade. And should the UK diverge its regulatory framework new barriers will be erected.'

He added: 'The political declaration will only deepen the Prime Minister's political problems: a Brexit that both disrupts trade and breaches red lines on the role of the ECJ is unlikely to gather significant support from either side of the divide.'

Small businesses play a major role in Britain's economy and the sector is keeping a keen eye on the daily twists and turns of negotiations.

Speaking to This is Money, Mike Cherry, chairman of the Federation of Small Businesses, said: 'Last week’s draft withdrawal agreement brought with it the promise of hope that the coveted transition period was a step closer to being secured - a transition period that avoids a damaging and dangerous no deal Brexit that would be catastrophic for the UK’s small businesses.

Dr Adam Marshall, director of the British Chambers of Commerce, said: 'There are still big questions to answer'

'As today’s political declaration outlines, this is just the start of what will be a monumental task in shaping what our eventual future relationship with the EU will be once we actually leave.

'Once we leave the EU on the 29th March 2019, the job must start in earnest to negotiate this comprehensive partnership and secure the easiest and least costly access to the EU single market and those countries we currently have trading relationships with through our membership of the EU. Small businesses need and want a trading relationship that does not bring with it extra costs or administrative burdens.'

Within the UK, the services sector comprises around three quarters of the country's economy. A crucial part of the sector is hospitality, which often relies heavily on EU workers coming to work within the UK.

Kate Nicholls, chief executive of UK Hospitality, said: 'This is a positive step forward for businesses looking for stability and clarity in order to plan their investment.

'Hospitality operators need to know they will have the reassurances provided by a deal. It cannot be stressed enough that a no deal Brexit would present the sector with severe problems and would have a serious impact on confidence. This agreement demonstrates a clear alignment on a direction of travel.

'This crucial step in securing a Brexit withdrawal agreement will provide much-needed confidence that a no deal scenario will be avoided.'

Cautiously optimistic: Kate Nicholls, chief executive of UK Hospitality, told This is Money, 'This is a positive step forward for businesses looking for stability and clarity'

Today's draft political declaration on the future relationship between the UK and the EU foresees a free-trade area with deep regulatory and customs cooperation.

The draft statement, which comprises 26 pages, sets out the structure for the future UK/EU relationship, which will be fully negotiated after the UK exits on 29 March.

Commenting on the pound's movements, Simon Harvey, an analyst at Monex Europe, said: 'This week ’s lull in news flow has finally been broken, but sterling still faces a difficult few days.

'Questions regarding May’s ability to navigate her draft deal through Parliament and whether all EU countries will sign off on the deal remain, along with the likely Brexiteer reaction.

'This has undoubtedly capped sterling’s kneejerk reaction this morning. However, the reaction itself is more telling than its magnitude. Optimism still remains in the market and sterling's ability to explode at the blink of an eye is captivating.'

Currency matters: The pound is marching ahead this morning as embattled Prime Minister Theresa May took a major step forward in securing Britain's future relationship with the EU

Hamish Muress, currency analyst at OFX, said: 'Reports this morning that the EU have agreed to a draft deal on future trade relations has seen sterling bounce, but the currency is still much weaker than it was 8 days ago, before Raab’s surprise resignation.

'The post Brexit trade relationship has been pushed to one side over the last few weeks as focus shifted to the backstop issue in Ireland, as issue that remains a stumbling block for Theresa May.'

Craig Erlam, an analyst at OandA, told This is Money: 'The price action over the last couple of hours clearly demonstrates how sensitive the pound is to any Brexit developments, regardless of source or significance.

'I don’t think anyone expected the final details on the future relationship to derail the deal and yet reports that it has been concluded ahead of the meeting triggered a strong rally.

'Naturally there’s been a flood of comments since then that has brought volatility but the currency remains buoyed ahead of a potential announcement by Theresa May this afternoon. It is worth remembering though that this is only a small first hurdle of many larger to come, which may offer insight into the kind of upside we can expect in the coming months'

I have just sent to EU27 a draft Political Declaration on the Future Relationship between EU and UK. The Commission President has informed me that it has been agreed at negotiators’ level and agreed in principle at political level, subject to the endorsement of the Leaders. — Donald Tusk (@eucopresident) November 22, 2018

Earlier this month, the pound slumped as Theresa May struggled to cobble together support for the 585-page draft agreement documenting the UK's future relationship with the EU.

A string of high-profile resignations, including Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab and Work and Pensions Secretary Esther McVey, exacerbated the pound's decline.

The pound plunged by 1.5 per cent against the dollar to below $1.28 after the shock resignations.

Bank of England governor Mark Carney asked major UK banks to talk to City regulators and give their feedback on the market reaction to the shock ministerial resignations.

====== 863 ========

MIKE ASHLEY SLAMS POLITICIANS AND DEMANDS AN AUDIENCE WITH MPS IN BID TO SAVE THE HIGH STREET

Retail tycoon Mike Ashley demanded an audience with MPs as he slammed politicians and landlords for not doing enough to prop up the embattled High Street.

Ashley has a hefty retail portfolio. He runs Sports Direct and House of Fraser and holds shares in Debenhams, French Connection and Game, to name but a few.

Today, the billionaire pledged to take the job of saving the High Street into his own hands. He vowed to 'make a real difference' when he appears before a select committee in December.

Mike Ashley owns and has shares in a cluster of retail firms like Game and French Connection

According to a Sports Direct spokesperson, Ashley has insisted on addressing MPs for a full hour, after a House of Fraser representative was initially invited to speak for just 15 minutes.

'Since we acquired House of Fraser, we've been working around the clock to save as many stores and jobs as possible,' Ashley said in a statement.

'I believe politicians and landlords should be doing more to save our struggling high streets, so I intend to make the most of this opportunity to make a real difference.'

Ashley's Sports Direct bought House of Fraser out of administration in a pre-pack deal earlier this year. At the time, he pledged to keep most of its stores open and transform the fallen chain into the 'Harrods of the High Street'.

However, Ashley has had to concede to making some closures, putting hundreds of jobs at risk, after negotiations with landlords turned sour.

The entrepreneur, who also owns Newcastle United FC, has been unabashed in his criticism of retail landlords who he openly blames for the imminent closures.

He urged them to be 'more proactive' earlier this month after announcing the closure of four House of Fraser branches in shopping centres owned by Intu.

Mike Ashley (above) hopes his meeting with MPs will 'make a real difference' to the High Street

Ashley has himself come under criticism, however, for reportedly making unreasonable demands and for snapping up companies in such a manner that wipes the debt slate clean and leaves unsecured creditors, such as suppliers, landlords and pension funds, out of pocket.

Reports earlier this month suggested that Ashley's dealings have threatened more than 6,000 retail jobs. But his supporters claim that he has saved more by giving failing firms a second chance.

The meeting of the Housing, Communities and Local Government Committee will take place on December 5 as part of an ongoing inquiry into the future of the High Street.

A spokesman for Sports Direct added: 'The MPs originally wanted somebody from House of Fraser to speak for about 15 minutes as part of a panel of four, and said they didn't mind who it was.

'Mike thought that wouldn't achieve anything, so instead he demanded to go along in person for a full hour.'

Sports Direct's most recent acquisition was that of Evans Cycles. Ashley's firm picked up the ailing cycling firm in a pre-pack deal for £8million but is only keeping half of its 62 shops open.

====== 864 ========

CITY DIARY: MIKE ASHLEY SAYS THE CHANCELLOR'S PLAN TO HELP THE HIGH STREET IS 'THE WORK OF A CHILD'

Business bruiser: Sport Direct tycoon Mike Ashley

Podgy Sports Direct tycoon Mike Ashley hits out at Chancellor Philip Hammond's Budget, describing his attempt to help the High Street last month as 'the work of a child.'

Perhaps Theresa May should consider making Ashley a business tsar. The useless stiffs on Whitehall who've made such a balls-up of Brexit would certainly benefit from the thirsty bruiser's whip hand.

And as US president Lyndon Johnson said of FBI chief J Edgar Hoover: 'It's probably better to have him inside the tent p****** out, than outside the tent p****** in.'

Like Japanese soldiers in the Pacific unaware the war is lost, a letter from City dignitaries appeared in yesterday's Financial Times demanding a second vote on Brexit.

The signatories were all the usual suspects – millionaire PR man Roland Rudd; ex-Lloyd's of London gargoyle John Nelson; 'City Superwoman'-cum-Liberal Democrat stooge Nicola Horlick.

Yawn, yawn. Why continue with these self-important missives? It's not like they did any good during the referendum.

Lastminute founder Baroness Lane Fox will guest edit (groan) Radio 4's Today programme this Christmas, looking at what influence Silicon Valley has had on our daily lives.

What impact has Westminster-educated Martha, 45, had on our daily lives since David Cameron anointed her a peer in 2013?

Not a great deal by the looks of things. Her voting record over the past year stands at a measly 16 per cent. 'Below average,' deems the website Theyworkforyou.

The new Lord Mayor of London, Barclays adviser Peter Estlin, is in for a busy year.

In his arduous (not to mention unpaid) ceremonial role, he can expect to make some 800 speeches promoting the City of London.

Yesterday, he visited Tec Marina, an 'innovation hub' near Cardiff. 'Hugely enjoyed my visit,' he tweets. Pace yourself, Peter!

Firebrand socialist John McDonnell's presumptuous assertion he won't live in Downing Street 'when' he's Chancellor of the Exchequer, wouldn't make him the first Labour minister not to do so.

Former premier Ramsay MacDonald didn't care for Number 10, instead preferring to remain at home in Hampstead. He travelled back from Westminster each evening on the London Underground. Another time, another time.

====== 865 ========

DAILY BRIEFING: IPHONE ASSEMBLER FOXCONN WARNS OF SLUGGISH DEMAND

Slowdown: iPhone assembler Foxconn Technology Group is cutting its expenses in half

IPHONE FEARS The biggest assembler of Apple iPhones has warned of sluggish demand, becoming the fifth supplier to raise alarm bells.

Foxconn Technology Group is cutting its expenses in half because of the slowdown. The warning comes after iPhone parts makers AMS, Lumentum, IQE and Japan Display said demand had weakened.

SORRELL HIRE Sir Martin Sorrell has hired a former WPP executive Michel de Rijk to run the Asia-Pacific arm of his new advertising company S4 Capital.

PLANE PLANS China is mulling tariff cuts for plane parts it imports to build aircraft. It is part of the country’s ‘Made in China’ strategy to boost high-tech manufacturing.

AUDIT SWITCH High Street lender Lloyds has swapped auditors. It appointed Deloitte to take over from Big Four peer PwC.

EATING APP Israeli billionaire Teddy Sagi’s property investment firm Labtech, which owns London’s Camden Market, has launched a new app to allow customers to ‘click and collect’ food from local outlets.

SHARE BUYBACK Lender Standard Chartered could launch a share buyback to revive its stock price.

The plan would depend on the size of a fine expected from US regulators over past dealings that may have broken sanctions against Iran.

SALES RISE Pub operator Mitchells & Butlers posted a 1.3 per cent increase in sales in the 12 months to September 29 compared with a year earlier. Profits fell to £178million from £180million during the previous period.

CHINA OPENINGS Legoland and Thorpe Park owner Merlin Entertainments has opened three attractions in China, including a Peppa Pig World of Play in Shanghai.

NEW FACTORY Vaping retailer Vaporized has invested £2million in a factory in Edinburgh.

CORNISH FLIGHTS London airport Heathrow will begin running direct flights to and from Newquay in Cornwall from April.

DIY DEAL Embattled DIY chain Homebase has secured a £95million refinancing with US bank Wells Fargo.

PRICE CUT Elon Musk’s electric car maker Tesla has cut prices of two models in China by 12 to 16 per cent to counteract tariffs imposed in the trade war with the US.

====== 866 ========

TOY TRAIN MAKER HORNBY SEES LIGHT AT THE END OF THE TUNNEL AFTER PUTTING THE STOPPERS ON DISCOUNTING

Toymaker Hornby has signalled to a brighter future today as its losses narrowed in the last six months.

The firm, best known for its model trains, trimmed its half-year losses to £3.2million, compared with £5.7million at this point last year, after 'slamming the brakes' on an aggressive discounting strategy that was eroding sales.

Hornby, best known for toy trains, said it was getting back on track after stopping discounting

Boss Lyndon Davies said the business ditched the cost cutting to focus instead on the 'long-term health of the brands'.

He said: 'Having slammed on the brakes as hard as we could to prevent further damage to the brands from discounting, the trust in the supply chain is starting to move in the right direction.

'Perhaps most importantly, our loyal employees are beginning to believe in the business again. There are some incredible products in the pipeline that will finally get us back on the front foot and give us the ability to take back the market share that we have given away.'

The news sent shares up by more than 5 per cent to 34p, despite group sales plunging 18 per cent to £13.8million during the period.

A Hornby train once featured on a Royal Mail stamp but the firm more recently lost its way

Earlier this year, a derailed Hornby blamed full-year losses on poor decisions by former management.

It has since signed a deal with Warner Bros to make toys for the Harry Potter franchise - a move that saw shares jump 27 per cent.

The firm's annual performance this year will be dependent on the critical Christmas trading period as the firm looks to 'rebuild trust' among consumers and suppliers.

====== 867 ========

CAPITAL'S CAR CLONING EPIDEMIC REVEALED WITH A 50% SPIKE IN CASES

Motorists are being warned that cases of car cloning are on the rise and criminals could be driving around the UK in a similar vehicle to theirs, using the exact same number plate to avoid fines and prosecution.

New research by HonestJohn.co.uk uncovered a spike in the number of cloned vehicle cases in London after obtaining data from Transport for London.

It showed the number of Penalty Charge Notices issued for failed payments to enter the Congestion Zone increased by 50 per cent in 2017 - and warns it could be rife across the rest of the UK.

The consumer motoring website analysed previously unseen TfL figures for Congestion Charge zone fines and found that 1,652 cases had been cancelled last year due to the offending vehicle being a clone of an innocent motorist's car.

Clone: There's been a 50% recorded rise in the number of cancelled Congestion Charge fines because it has been proved to TfL that the offending vehicle has duplicated number plates fitted

There were 1,099 cancelled Congestion Charge-related PCNs in 2016.

Data obtained for the first six months of 2018 also showed that car cloning continues to rise, with official figures up by a third for the months of January through to June.

And vehicles fitted with duplicated number plates to evade ANPR (Automatic Number Plate Recognition) cameras are thought to be a more severe problem than TfL's cancelled fine records suggest.

'The true figure for the number of cloned cars on the road in London is thought to be much higher, given the complex and lengthy PCN appeals process and the fact that the Congestion Charge zone only operates Monday to Friday,' the report said.

Not only does this mean criminals are eluding up to £214,760 worth of fines (based on an unpaid fine being £130), it is also causing unnecessary distress for blameless motorists.

In the event of a PCN being issued due to a cloned vehicle, the legitimate keeper of the car with that number plate is required to provide evidence to satisfy the issuer of the ticket that their motor was not at the time and place where the alleged offence occurred.

While the data reviewed was only for London - using Congestion Charge fine stats - experts have warned that it could be an increasing UK-wide problem

'This is just the tip of the iceberg,' warned HonestJohn.co.uk managing editor, Daniel Powell.

'On the grounds that it is down to the car owner to prove they are innocent, it would be safe to assume that the true figure for car cloning in London is significantly higher as many drivers will be unable supply the evidence TfL requires to cancel the PCN,' he said.

'For those involved it can be a very frightening and stressful experience, because they will be threatened with crippling fines and court action if they cannot provide comprehensive proof that they were not on the capital’s roads.

'It also raises an important question - how many drivers simply pay the fine to avoid the stress?'

The investigating consumer site said there are steps owners can take to best protect themselves from falling victim to this type of car crime.

This includes having photos of their own vehicles that could show how it is different to another that might be using cloned plates.

HonestJohn.co.uk also said it was worth having evidence of your plates showing the vehicle manufacturer at the bottom, as many duplicated versions don't show this information.

Criminals are cloning genuine vehicles and their registrations plates to fool Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) cameras, like these

Motorists are even told to take extreme measures such as gathering CCTV footage of their own car at the time of the offence or using dash camera data - which use GPS tracking technology - to show that their vehicle was not present when infringement occurred.

Transport for London said it does take precautions by matching the offending vehicle's number plate with the DVLA's database before issuing fines, but has no other measures in place to combat cloning.

'Prior to issuing the PCN we manually verify that the image of the vehicle observed in the zone matches the vehicle information provided by the DVLA,' a spokesperson for the government agency said.

'Only when there is a match is a penalty issued. At the point of issuing the penalty we would not know if a vehicle had been cloned.

'On receipt of the penalty a motorist can follow the representations and appeals procedure and challenge a PCN.

'If we receive a representation stating a vehicle has been cloned we request evidence to confirm this.'

What lawyers advise if you fall victim to car cloning

Clive Robertson from leading London law firm Healys said drivers need to be vigilant and act immediately they receive a penalty or other charge notification which they know was not them.

'Often that is the first you know – when your car seems to have been living a double life, and not with you driving it,' he said.

'The issue here is to be able to prove that you were not the motorist who was ‘captured’ speeding or committing other motoring offences.

'If you cannot establish that it was a physical impossibility for you to have been where you are reported to have been, at the time of the offence, then you will be liable.

'Failure to pay can result in Court action which in turn can affect your credit score or, more seriously, bring points on your licence or disqualification. The knock on effect will almost certainly increase your insurance premiums.'

He went on: 'What proof might the affected driver need? Diary entries, mobile photos showing dates and probably most helpfully, footage from a dash cam, or if you have a tracker fitted with data logging – ideal!

'If you can show you were driving down to Brighton whilst the clone was speeding along the A 40 at Northolt, it is concrete proof. Dispute it successfully once and the police will be aware that your number has been cloned.

'I’m very much afraid that this is a case of guilty until proven innocent.'

====== 868 ========

MINISTERS TOLD TO 'MAKE LIFE EASIER FOR ELECTRIC CAR OWNERS'

Electric cars should be made easier to own by being able to be plugged into any public charge point in the country, one MP has advised ministers in the House of Commons this week.

Bill Wiggin, conservative representative for North Hertfordshire, presented his Electric Vehicles (Standardised Recharging) Bill to ministers, which highlighted the importance of a single connector type for plug-in cars.

He's called for current law to be amended to create an industry standard, so that all electric models can access the public network of almost 20,000 charging points currently available in the UK.

A warning was sounded that failure to do so could leave significant hurdles preventing the uptake of ultra-low emissions vehicles.

Easier life for electric car owners: An MP has presented a new bill to the House of Commons calling for new laws to be introduced to demand electric car makers and charge point providers use a single universal connector type

Introducing his bill to ministers on Wednesday, Mr Wiggin told the Commons: 'The main problem is the charging points.

'Our goal must be for every car to be able to recharge at every charging point. If we can achieve this, we will allow more people to switch to electric vehicles.'

He went on to clarify the difficulties electric vehicle owners face today when they want to charge their zero emissions cars away from home.

'The first problem with the charging points is that there are various different connectors to attach an electric vehicle to the charging points,' he explained.

'The two main connectors are the type 1 five-pin connector and the type 2 seven-pin connector. The combined charging system used in the rest of Europe is not currently in widespread use in the UK.

'Charging points are often tethered, which means they already have cables attached to them, and that is great if someone does not have the right sort of cable, but it is no use if they have the wrong sort of card to pay with.

'Even when charging points are untethered, car owners have to go to great lengths and significant expense to be able to charge their car publicly.'

There are two types of electric vehicle connectors, with this seven-pin version seen here in the Renault Zoe being the type 2 version

Mr Wiggin said the difficultly in easily charging an electric car away from home was one of the biggest hurdles restricting the uptake of greener models

The second issue highlighted was the multitude of public charger providers in the UK - many of which require drivers to subscribe if they want to access electricity in public places.

'Each charging point is owned by a particular company, and each requires a particular card or key fob to operate it,' Wiggin went on.

'This may be linked to a membership with a monthly or annual fee.

'Electric vehicle users in the UK are currently disadvantaged compared with our European neighbours due to our lack of an interoperable payment system for EV charging.

'EV drivers in the Netherlands, for example, are able to charge their cars using a common payment card system.

'I believe that we could make the current British model more effective and efficient by introducing a similar scheme here.'

He also called for the advent of contactless and mobile payment technology to allow for pay-as-you-go charging that doesn't require a membership or key fob.

There are around 15 different major charge point provides already in the UK, most of which require a subscription to use their network

Mr Wiggin said the government has the power to create such uniformity through the Automated and Electric Vehicles Act 2018

Mr Wiggin said these problems could be easily solved by replicating what is currently happening in the technology sector.

He commented: 'Mobile phones, computers, cameras, all manner of computer accessories have individualised ports on the device but they all connect to the power in through a USB port – we should apply this to electric vehicles and create a universal standard for car chargers.'

There is legislation in place that could make a universal connector requirement a reality.

The government has the power to create such uniformity through the Automated and Electric Vehicles Act 2018, which states: 'Regulations may impose requirements on operators of public charging or refuelling points…in connection with the components of public charging or refuelling points that provide the means by which vehicles connect to such points.'

There are almost 20,000 individual public charge points in the UK, according to Zap Map

AA president called the bill a 'breath of fresh air in a complex market'

The AA has welcomed the parliamentary motion by Bill Wiggin, describing it as a 'breath of fresh air' in a complex market.

Edmund King, president at the Automobile Association, said: 'How to pay for a charge at different charging stations can be baffling.

'Many charging networks require their own Apps or RFID cards which are necessary to start a charge.

'Some of these require a subscription; others require pre-loading with funds while some make a separate 'connection charge' as well as payment for the energy purchased.

'A few charging networks accept a contactless debit or credit card as well as a network RDID card and surely this is by far the simplest method.

AA president Edmund King said charging an electric car can be baffling, even for current owners

'There is nothing more frustrating than arriving at a charger for which you don't have the appropriate App and then spending time finding, installing, registering and perhaps loading with funds before you can plug in and charge – assuming your smartphone is itself charged and has a signal.

'Meanwhile the operator has retained your deposit and you may never use that charging network again.'

Mr King warned that the complexity of charging an electric car can be a 'disincentive to prospective EV buyers' and more simple charging methods, as suggested in the bill, could remove barriers for their adoption.

'Drivers simply want to fill their car's battery with energy as simply as filling a conventional car's tank with petrol and pay for what they take,' the AA president added.

The next stage for the bill is a second reading in the House of Commons.

This has been scheduled to take place on Friday 8 March 2019.

====== 869 ========

EIGHT IN TEN DRIVERS SAY IT'S ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE TO NOT STOP IN SOME YELLOW BOX JUNCTIONS

London councils made between £8 million and £16 million generated by fines issued to drivers who stopped in yellow box junctions in the previous financial year, according to the RAC.

But many drivers claim they simply couldn't avoid stopping in them, with the majority blaming poor sequencing of traffic lights around the junctions or other drivers blocking their path.

And more motorists could soon face the same penalties.

While only London and Cardiff councils have the powers to use cameras to catch motorists coming to a standstill in yellow boxes, declining police numbers could result in them being installed across England and Wales.

Boxed in: Eight in 10 drivers said they struggle get through some yellow box junctions without stopping

TfL data seen by the RAC showed that councils in the capital issued a total of 123,071 Penalty Charge Notices (PCNs) in the last financial year for yellow box contraventions - up from 108,164 the year before.

Motorists who receive a PCN face a fine of £130, though it is reduced to £65 if they pay within the first two weeks of receiving the notice.

If all fines were paid at the reduced rate, authorities would have raked in £7,999,615, while the total for the full penalty amount would hit a whopping £15,999,230.

The top location for yellow box contraventions was the exit of the Wandsworth fire station on West Hill where 16,707 PCNs were issued to drivers in the period, followed by the fire station exit on Homerton High Street where 12,071 were issued to drivers.

London locations where the most PCNs were issued last year 1. Wandsworth fire station exit on West Hill, SW18 - 16,707 PCNs 2. Homerton fire station exit on Homerton High Street - 12,701 PCNs 3. Hanger Lane / Ealing Village junction, W5 - 8,033 PCNs 4. Euston Road / Judd Street / Midland Road junction - 5,595 PCNs 5. Peckham High Street / Peckham bus station exit (east box) - 5,432 PCNs Source: RAC

However, many drivers argue that it is not their fault that they've had to stop in the hatched yellow lines.

The motoring organisation's research found that eight in 10 motorists find it a struggle to get through some yellow box junctions without stopping, and almost half (46 per cent) have been caught in one by accident.

Of the 1,990 RAC members surveyed who've fallen foul of a box junction, more than three-quarters said it was due to poorly structured traffic management.

Some 78 per cent said they are forced to hit the brakes in yellow box junctions because of poor sequencing of traffic lights beyond the turning.

A third blamed their infringement on other motorists.

The poll found that 32 per cent pointed the finger at fellow drivers who had broken road rules to either block their path or cause additional tailbacks outside the yellow box junctions, forcing them to come to a standstill.

One in five (20 per cent) simply said the junction they were caught in was badly designed and 15 per cent believe they are often located in the wrong places.

However, 13 per cent of the panel said they have no issues with yellow box junctions and find them easy to negotiate without coming to a halt on the hatched lines.

Could more drivers face yellow box junction fines soon?

Some 123,071 Penalty Charge Notices were issued to drivers in London in the last financial year, TfL stats showed

Currently, only local authorities in London and Cardiff are able to enforce yellow box junctions with cameras and issue PCNs.

But the RAC claims that many more councils in England and Wales would like to be able to use cameras to enforce these often troublesome and controversial junctions - simply because it generates substantial funds through penalties.

And there's an increasing likelihood that Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) cameras could be located at junctions across the country because of reduced policing numbers.

The rules of yellow box junctions are normally enforced by officers, however declining personnel and the difficulty of catching offenders has resulted in little to no enforcement at all, leading to calls for a roll-out of cameras instead.

And under the Traffic Management Act 2004 local authorities in England and Wales could be given the powers to enforce such 'moving traffic' contraventions.

If the Government was to grant local authorities the same powers that are already being used in London and Cardiff it's highly likely we would see a massive rise in the number of drivers being issued penalty charge notices. Simon Williams, RAC

Despite a recommendation from the House of Commons Transport committee seven years ago for councils to be given the green light to use cameras at box junctions by 2013, the Government said in 2015 it had no plans to activate them.

The Local Government Association, however, has called for them to be put into place nationally, arguing that offences haven't been enforced because of the dwindling police numbers.

Scotland would have to introduce new legislation if it was to allow camera enforcement as it's not covered by the same traffic management act.

RAC spokesperson Simon Williams said: 'There is a strong feeling that many junctions are not set up fairly which leads to drivers having no choice but stop in them, whether that's due to poor traffic light sequencing, poor design or being used in the wrong place.

'Box junctions can also heighten stress for drivers as those at the front of traffic lights often feel pressured to move on as a result of impatient drivers behind who don't realise they are being prevented from doing so by the presence of yellow lines.

'If the Government was to grant local authorities the same powers that are already being used in London and Cardiff it's highly likely we would see a massive rise in the number of drivers being issued penalty charge notices.'

The rules of yellow box junctions are normally enforced by officers, however declining personnel and the difficulty of catching offenders has resulted in little or no enforcement, leading to calls for a roll-out of camera enforcement across England and Wales

Currently, only London and Cardiff have the powers to enforce these junctions with ANPR cameras

How should box junction infringements be dealt with?

Asked whether councils across the country should be able to issue PCNs to any driver that comes to a standstill in one, more than a third (36 per cent) of drivers surveyed by the RAC thought it was a good idea that would help prevent congestion at junctions.

Another 36 per cent agreed they ought to have this power, but should limit penalties only to problem junctions.

There were also differing opinions on how they should be enforced.

Almost two-thirds said offending motorists should initially receive a warning letter for their first infringement and a fixed amount PCN for subsequent violations.

A fifth (21 per cent) think there should be a lower penalty charge for a first infringement, but a higher one for subsequent offences if caught again within a 12-month period.

Some 13 per cent claim offending motorists should continue to be fined in the same way as they are in London, with a fixed amount PCN, reduced for early payment, no matter how many times a driver gets caught.

A quarter (24 per cent), however, were adamant that local authorities should not have the powers to issue PCNs at all.

What is a yellow box junction and how do they work? Everything you need to know about box junctions Box junctions are a traffic control measure designed to prevent gridlock at junctions. They're easy to spot in the UK - it’s a yellow box filled with hatched yellow lines painted on the road. They tend to be found on large busy junctions such as crossroads, T-junctions and occasionally roundabouts to keep traffic flowing. They’re usually controlled by traffic lights, but not always. Box junctions may also be used outside fire stations to keep a road space free to ensure fire engines always have a clear exit. Under the rules of the Highway Code, you’re not allowed to enter the yellow box unless your exit is clear and there is enough space on the other side of the junction for your car to clear the box completely without stopping. The exception is turning right and waiting for oncoming traffic to pass. In this situation then you are allowed to enter the box and wait if you’re prevented from turning by oncoming traffic, or by other vehicles waiting to turn right. It’s perfectly legal for you to wait on the yellow criss-cross provided your exit road is clear. Be careful when queuing inside the box, though, as you might not have time to clear the junction before the traffic lights change.

The RAC said it favours the format of an initial warning letter followed by PCNs for repeat infringements.

'The RAC is generally supportive of local authorities having the power to enforce yellow box junctions because of the value of local knowledge, but has concerns that it could lead to local authorities being inconsistent in their application of road traffic law,' said Mr Williams.

'There is also a risk that cash-strapped authorities may see it as a lucrative revenue stream. To prevent this, we think warning letters for a first contravention would be appropriate.

'We therefore believe it is essential that every yellow box junction where a camera is installed is comprehensively tested to ensure it is easy to negotiate without stopping.'

====== 870 ========

MOT EMISSION FAILURES DOUBLE UNDER TOUGHER NEW TEST

Twice as many cars failed the emissions test component of their MOT this year thanks to stricter rules brought in six months ago.

The new tests, which were introduced in May as part of a wider shakeup of the MOT test thanks to an EU directive, now include additional checks which can make it more difficult to pass.

Among these changes are stricter rules on emissions from vehicles fitted with diesel particulate filters. And under the new regime, if the mechanic sees smoke of any colour coming out of your diesel's exhaust, they'll fail you.

A total of 238,871 diesel and 505,721 petrol cars failed the new test and cannot pass their MOT

Since May there has been a staggering 448 per cent increase in the number of diesel vans failing their emissions tests, increasing from 3,585 in 2017, to 19,648 in 2018.

A total of 238,871 diesel and 505,721 petrol cars failed the new test and cannot pass their MOT until they have been repaired.

Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency chief executive Gareth Llewellyn said: 'DVSA's priority is to help everyone keep their vehicle safe to drive.

'We are committed to making a real difference to those in society whose lives and health are blighted by poor air quality.

'Since introducing the new tighter MOT emissions test in May, nearly 750,000 vehicles have been taken off the road or fixed.'

Other changes to the MOT introduced in May include new checks on vehicle lighting, checks on fluid leaks posing an environmental risk and clearer defect categories.

Half of motorists didn't understand the new MOT rules when they came into force last May.

The Government has set out in its Air Quality Plan that the UK will end the sale of new petrol and diesel cars and vans by 2040.

New checks as part of the MOT Stricter rules for diesel car emissions A vehicle will get a major fault if the MOT tester: • can see smoke of any colour coming from the exhaust • finds evidence that the DPF has been tampered with Other new checks include: • if tyres are obviously underinflated • if the brake fluid has been contaminated • for fluid leaks posing an environmental risk • brake pad warning lights and if brake pads or discs are missing • reversing lights on vehicles first used from 1 September 2009 • headlight washers on vehicles first used from 1 September 2009 (if they have them) • daytime running lights on vehicles first used from 1 March 2018 (most of these vehicles will have their first MOT in 2021 when they're 3 years old) Source: DVSA

Is the new MOT test letting more dangerous cars on the road?

Overall, car MOT failure rates have actually fallen since the more stringent rules came into force in May.

A Freedom of Information request by comparison site Motorway.co.uk to the DVLA found that that across June, July and August the average failure rate was 34.1 per cent, compared to 35 per cent for the same period last year, before the new rules came into force.

Alex Buttle of Motorway.co.uk said: 'It's surprising to see MOT fail rates drop since the more comprehensive tests came into force, when logically you'd expect them to rise.

'Other than 2014 and 2015 being very strong years for new car sales and these new cars needing an MOT for the first time, there's no clear evidence to explain why rates have fallen in 2018 and it might just be a coincidence.

'However, it could also reveal a lot about the time most garages allocate for tests and the tight profit margins they are operating under.'

Buttle added that while the new tests are more time consuming for garages, there hasn't been a parallel rise in the costs of MOT prices, with the maximum fee garages can legally charge for an MOT capped at £54.85.

'It's very hard to pin the reasons for the MOT failure rate fall on any particular thing, but if a garage spends more time on some cars, they may need to make up the time by "waving through" other cars with issues that under the previous rules might have failed,' added Buttle.

====== 871 ========

YOUR KEYLESS CAR COULD BE GONE IN SECONDS AMID NEW HIGH-TECH CRIMEWAVE

Under cover of darkness, two hooded figures approach a house in Billericay, Essex. One waves a laptop-sized device by the front door while the other holds a similar object near the £40,000 Mercedes-Benz parked on the drive.

The latter then nonchalantly opens the driver's door and drives away while the first man departs in a getaway vehicle. The theft of the luxury car has taken 23 seconds.

No picking of locks, smashing of windows or stealing a car key have been necessary.

Unsurprisingly, the car's owner, company director Danny Talbot was 'beyond angry' when he viewed CCTV footage showing the ease with which his car was stolen on May 17.

He, his wife and two children had been in the house at the time, but the first he knew about the theft was when he saw the empty driveway.

High-tech car thieves working together can steal your keyless car within a few seconds

The high tech relay boxes scan for car keys and broadcast their signal to a second unit beside the motor which opens the door and allows it to start - fooling the car's security system

'It happened in the early hours,' says Mr Talbot, who bought the Mercedes C-Class new in 2015.

How to protect your vehicle: Everyday items like a drinks can or your fridge can stop the criminals in their tracks Every make and model of car which can start 'keylessly' is susceptible to a relay attack. While this might put drivers on edge, there are easy steps you can take to stop you becoming the next victim of a relay theft. Certain metals are capable of blocking key signals, which means if you store your fob with one of these metals around it, criminals won't be able to pick them up and steal your vehicle. The most simple and most ingenious is a metal can. The aluminum in a drinks can will stop radio signals being transmitted from your key and stop burglars in their tracks. Some experts have suggested keeping your keys in the fridge, as the material on the inside will block signals too. If you're looking for a low-cost option, some people wrap their fobs in tin foil - although this isn't endorsed by security firms. Keeping your keys in a small metal box however can work efficiently. Special faraday pouches — cheap wallets which shield the key's radio signal from being transmitted — are also useful for storing your keys when you're away from home - in motorway service stations and public car parks. Experts also encourage drivers to keep them at least 5m away from their front door, to give thieves the worst chance of being able to relay a signal. But some security specialists advise against hiding your car keys too obscurely in your house — because if serious criminals truly want to steal your car, they will break in and do anything to find the keys. Old-fashioned methods like parking in a well-lit area, using a steering wheel lock and installing a proper tracking device to your vehicle are still highly recommended to keep your car safe.

So how did the thieves make off with the Mercedes with such ease? The answer is by using a swift and silent technique so successful that it's one of the major factors behind car thefts in England a Wales hitting a six-year high last year.

Yesterday official figures showed the number of cars reported stolen to the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency in 2017 rose to 43,308 — up almost 9,000 since 2016.

Yet crime surveys from the Office for National Statistics suggest the true figure is even higher, with 89,000 vehicles stolen in England and Wales last year. In certain areas, such as the West Midlands, car theft has soared by 80 per cent.

Insurers paid out a record £271 million in theft claims in the first nine months of this year, says the Association for British Insurers, with keyless theft the 'main driver'.

So-called 'relay' theft occurs when two thieves work together to break into keyless cars. They use equipment to capture electromagnetic signals emitted by keyfobs.

One thief stands by the car with a transmitter, while the other stands by the house with another, which picks up the signal from the electronic key, usually kept near the front door on a table or hook.

This is then relayed to the transmitter by the vehicle, causing it to think the key is in close proximity and prompting it to open. Thieves can then drive the vehicle away thanks to the keyless ignition and quickly replace locks and entry devices.

Any vehicle with keyless entry could be vulnerable to relay theft. These include cars from BMW, Ford, Audi, Land Rover, Volkswagen and Mercedes.

The same method could conceivably be used in a car park. And the distance between the device and key could be up to nine metres.

Mr Talbot blames car companies for their flawed technology, and a government failing to tighten laws to prevent such crimes. After all, it is not illegal to sell or own a relay box device.

The only way police can arrest someone is under the 'going equipped to steal' law — meaning they would have to catch the thief red-handed with it, or prove an intent to use it for theft.

This CCTV footage showed a car thief opening the door of a Mercedes in Chigwell, Essex

The same law applies to other gadgets supposedly designed to help owners who have lost their keys, such as key programmer devices, which tell the car to trust a new key and forget the code for the original one.

But police sources, security experts and locksmiths specialising in vehicles have all told the Mail there is 'no legitimate reason' to be in possession of a relay device.

If a driver was to lose their key, a relay box wouldn't help them get back into their car, as the devices only work when the key is nearby. Car manufacturers and service centres would instead use special keys called 'one time use' keys that let them key in a new code for the driver.

An auto-locksmith already has tools to pick the lock of the car and gain access to it. They would then need to work with the owner and manufacturer to code a new key.

West Midlands Police and Crime Commissioner David Jamieson — who also decried Britain's car theft 'epidemic' — said: 'They can only be used for one thing — breaking into a car which you don't own.'

You'd be forgiven for assuming it's difficult to lay your hands on such a device. But a Daily Mail investigation has revealed it couldn't be easier.

Insiders have warned that Britain's unregulated locksmith industry is awash with traders selling relay devices — some of which use their memberships of trade bodies as a masquerade for supplying them to criminals.

As well as making and selling theft devices, some retailers also provide YouTube videos demonstrating their use.

We discovered one Bulgarian electronics company has been using a small locksmiths in West London as a distributor of the gadgets in Britain.

With prices starting at £14,500, the 'Keyless Go' devices sold by Bulgarian-headquartered Edilock Ltd, are favoured by crime gangs. When a reporter visited its high-street distributor, Greenford Security Services Ltd in Ealing earlier this month, he was told cash could be left behind the counter with 'no questions asked'.

Ron Cliff, who declined to comment, is the owner of Greenford Security and a member of the Master Locksmiths Association. He had boasted that the technology was 'dead easy' to use, and would be delivered 'by DHL' to any address from Bulgaria.

Employees at Greenford Security said customers visit the suburban locksmith from as far afield as the Midlands.

Simon Touch, an automotive locksmith operating from Beirut in the Lebanon, was also named by vehicle recovery experts as a vendor of kits capable of being used for car theft used in Britain.

Both Edilock and Simon Touch exhibited at the Master Locksmith Association (MLA) expo in London last year, while Edilock is a frequent presence at locksmiths' conventions around the country, having also sold its wares at shows in Telford, Coventry, Nottingham and Edinburgh.

Last year, Ireland introduced laws compelling all locksmiths to be government-registered in order to stamp out cowboy vendors. But in Britain no accreditation or registration is required.

Earlier this year, at an emergency summit between police groups, vehicle manufacturers and the Master Locksmith Association (MLA), the MLA said this was one of the main reasons for car crime being at such high levels.

Peter Thompson of CanTrack Global, a vehicle recovery company, said: 'There's a real danger that saying 'I'm a proper locksmith' means being part of an association where they can sell these devices and legitimise themselves.

'At global locksmith events there are law enforcement agents [from outside of Europe] buying off the same guys that are supplying to the criminals.' The Mail worked with Mr Thompson to demonstrate just how effective relay boxes are, using a device he obtained ethically through his work recovering stolen vehicles, to 'steal' three cars in under 60 seconds.

We simulated a situation in which keys were in a house, with a box held up to the front door. The other box was passed from one vehicle to the next. This allowed us to keylessly enter and start the vehicles in under 60 seconds.

Meanwhile companies like Edilock continue to tout their wares. Edilock was founded by Voskan Pehlivanyan, 42, a Bulgarian electronics expert who has been accused of using his skills to help steal cars — a claim he denies. He says instead that his expertise has been called in by car manufacturers and police in Europe.

How we drove away with three luxury keyless cars in less than 60 seconds By Sian Boyle for the Daily Mail With a pair of relay boxes similar to those which criminals use in car-theft sprees, the Daily Mail was able to simulate the theft of three cars in less than 60 seconds. Using the boxes, which bypass the need for the car's key to start the car, we accessed and drove away the volunteered premium cars which are collectively worth almost £200,000. Working with car recovery specialist CanTrack Global, our ethically-sourced relay boxes foiled the security of a £94,000 Tesla model S, a £76,000 Range Rover Sport, and a £28,000 VW Golf GTD – which all have keyless entry and keyless start built into them as standard. Peter Thompson, managing director of CanTrack, said: 'We used one set of relay boxes to 'talk' to each of the vehicles. 'We simulated a situation in which the keys would normally be inside a house with a box held up to the front door. Here, we were placing the car keys next to our relay device. 'The other box was passed from one vehicle to the next. 'This allowed us to keylessly enter and start the vehicles in under 60 seconds - a shocking example of just how effective relay theft devices are.' He added: 'It shows just how quick and efficient relay technology is to open those vehicles without having the key in our pockets, then start the engine and drive away.'

Both Mr Pehlivanyan and Ron Cliff, 77, claim to be members of the European branch of the International Association of Auto Theft Investigators (IAATI) which counts Interpol, police bodies, car insurers and licensing companies among its members.

Edilock's website is visited thousands of times a day, with the UK one of its largest sources of traffic.

A description of one device retailing at 16,000 euros (£14,500) says: 'The device is produced to open and start any car, without the use of any pick tools, equiped (sic) with Intelligent/ Keyless Go key system.'

Another says it can work on Mercedes up to 300m away and 'when you do not have a clear view'.

Notes in red alongside the devices warn: 'All devices are sold for official use only!!! If you use them for any illegal purposes, this is your own responsibility!!!' When a reporter posing as a buyer contacted Edilock over Skype, he was not asked why he required the device and was told he could pay 16,000 euros in cash by flying to Bulgaria or depositing the sum at Greenford Security.

An employee said its Keyless Go devices worked on 'almost all' cars, and it had 'sold many' in the UK.

The seller boasted that the device could 'pick a key signal through a pocket or door' and could be used an unlimited number of times.

In a statement on behalf of Edilock, Mr Pehlivanyan said he began creating Keyless Go devices 'at the request of several police departments and secret services around Europe'. He said they later declined to pay for development of the technology and refused to buy it.

'When you go to the supermarket and buy a knife and next minute you kill a man. Whose fault is it then?' he added.

Similarly, Hans Kooijman, executive director of the IAATI board, acknowledged Edilock being accused of supplying kits capable of being used for car theft, but said the responsibility wasn't on product vendors to check who was buying.

'If you go to a warehouse and buy a hammer are you going to use it to nail a hammer in the wall or to kill someone?' he said. IAATI itself refused to formally comment.

Ian Elliott, a former Scotland Yard officer who specialised in detecting organised car crime for 30 years, said: 'While I was in the job, I came across a number of criminals using Edilock-type devices.' Mr Elliott said he wanted to see a change in the law preventing the manufacture of relay theft boxes, adding: 'A legitimate business would never need one.'

With a relay box being of no use to a driver who has lost keys, and official car companies using one use keys in such situations, experts believe they are for criminal use.

When shown the offending websites, the Home Office said it would 'continue to work with the police, industry and others to consider the evidence around new technologies and what more can be done to tackle emerging threats'.

A spokesman for Mercedes-Benz said: 'All Mercedes-Benz vehicles have extensive security and anti-theft protection systems, which are continuously developed, taking account of the latest knowledge about criminal methods and attacks on security systems.

'Customers have the option of deactivating the Keyless Go entry system with two clicks of the button on the key.'

Meanwhile, the police investigation is ongoing. Mr Talbot says: 'I can't believe that technology is available allowing thieves to make off with my property so easily.'

A sentiment no doubt echoed by many.

====== 872 ========

MEET THE 23 YEAR-OLD BEHIND VIDEO PRODUCTION FIRM PERSPECTIVE PICTURES

The rise of YouTube has spawned a generation of entrepreneurs who use the video-sharing platform to launch their business with very little overhead.

Rupert Rixon of video production company Perspective Picture is one of them.

As it turns out, ordinary people talking about what they like and what bothers them, or displaying some sort of talent can be interesting to the public. And for Rixon, his videos promoting a business he ran with his mother Angela loaning Nerf guns for children's parties caught the attention of throngs of people.

This is Money spoke to the young go-getter to find out how he went from YouTubing at home to running a fully-fledged business.

Videos produced by Rupert Rixon's Perspective Pictures have collectively reached over seven million viewers worldwide

Rixon's entrepreneurial streak was born from troubled circumstances.

His parents found themselves in a financial straits when a property investment went south on the back of the Northern Rock crisis in 2007. At one point, the whole family slept in the same room.

Rixon, who was 13 at the time, said: 'I saw the amount of pressure my parents were under, but I had become used to a comfortable lifestyle.

'I still wanted the latest games console among other things but I also wanted to support them, so I started to think about how I could make money.'

'We had no budget to market the business so I came up with the idea of producing action videos,' explains Rixon. 'I didn't study media or anything like that. I drew inspiration from videos I'd watch around the web.

'If I wanted to find out how to do something like make an explosion in a video, I'd research it. I didn't think the videos were anything special at first.'

But they took off. Collectively, the videos have reached over seven million viewers worldwide.

As the view count on his videos notched higher, so did the interest from advertisers and marketing people from big brands.

What started out as a YouTube channel created by a 16 year-old Rixon grew into a business creating adverts, documentaries and even music videos.

Today Rixon, now 23, presides over an experienced team of eight - with an average age of 23 - and a business which turned over £150,000 in 2017.

He says the firm's turnover is on course to exceed £500,000 this year and has produced marketing videos tailored for a millennial audience for leading brands including Google, Sony and Red Bull.

Put simply, these brands pay the company to produce digital content that millennials would view cool to improve brand awareness.

His videos have seen Rixon travel 3,000 miles across America on a longboard, trek mountains and race across some of Bolivia's most dangerous roads.

The teen entrepreneur

The process of scaling a business proved to be a steep learning curve for a young Rixon.

His YouTube videos earned him a 'couple hundred of pounds' a week from advertisers which is a good amount for a teenager living with his parents with minimal living expenses, but not enough to turn his passion into a bona fide venture.

Rixon found himself in a Catch-22 situation where he realised that to earn more money, he needed to produce more varied videos of greater quality, but he required cash and good camera equipment to do just that.

Rupert Rixon presides over an experienced team of eight - with an average age of 23 - and a business which turned over £150,000 in 2017

Too young to get a loan from a bank, Rixon resorted to approaching lifestyle brands for sponsorship.

He said: 'I worked out how to do telesales. I was 17 and rang companies asking to speak to someone in the sales team. When they put me through, I'd tell that person that I was meant to be put through to the marketing department. I would then pitch the video I was working on and ask for sponsorship.

'I did get a few nos, but I also got a few yeses. Sponsorship didn't always mean money. Sometimes companies gave us free stuff.'

As the business diversified to produce branded marketing content, Rixon demanded clients pay 50 per cent of the cost upfront - as a deposit - then invoiced the other half once the job had been completed.

An education

As business boomed, Rixon's school education fell to the wayside.

'When I was making films my attendance dropped by 40 per cent. I chose subjects for A-Levels I held a real interest in so I didn't have the hardest time in hitting the basic minimum to pass.

'I was really frustrated with the education system and what was expected of me. I didn't want to go to university, I wanted to make films and I was told that university would be the be all and end all if I wanted to get anywhere in life.

'School education definitely took a hit but I was still working really hard and learning a lot - but maybe not in the traditional sense.'

Rixon's efforts saw one of his short films, called 'The Fallen' featured in the Short Film Corner at Cannes Film Festival 2015.

After opting against going to university and a brief career in marketing, Rixon spent two years producing two documentaries to prove his film-making skills to prospective clients.

He spent a year travelling a 3,000 miles America on a longboard with a film team capturing and documenting the entire journey.

The following year, he went to India to do a cross-country hitchhike resulting in a 52 minute branded documentary for a drinks brand.

Before departing for Asia, Rixon set up Perspective Pictures as a limited company and, on returning, convinced friend Oliver Spain to work for him in his parents' garden shed.

Within six months he’d made enough money to move into a studio space in London.

Age discrimination

Like many entrepreneurs of a similar age, Rixon has had to overcome some obstacles that older company founders don't necessarily have to face as frequently - age discrimination being the top challenge.

'I once turned up to a meeting and the receptionist assumed I was the son of the person I had the meeting with, when, in fact, the man in question had invited me to discuss some marketing projects,' he recalls.

'I didn't take it personally and found it quite amusing.

'My brother Charlie also works in the business. He's 18 years old and and has a talent for editing but I've seen clients not show him the same respect as they would if they were dealing with me.

'I think in their heads they see an 18-year old and think they've been palmed off to the intern, but he runs the development team.

'Overall, I have been fortunate because of the industry I'm in. We create content often so that brands can speak to my peers. With social media, I can be seen as a voice of authority. Whereas if I went in as a management consultant and I told people how they should run their business then I think I'd get a different response.'

The only external funding Prospective Pictures raised came from a Seedrs crowdfunding campaign that secured £150,000 in just over two weeks - £30,000 above their target.

Rixon said the funds will be used to improve the quality of the company's work through new hires and workshops for staff, but the bulk of the sum will be spent on marketing.

====== 873 ========

WHAT ARE THE RULES ON HAVING A BLACK FRIDAY 'SALE' ON MY JEWELLERY?

I am self-employed as a jewellery designer and mostly sell through my website and Instagram account.

It's impossible to ignore the hype around Black Friday with loads of companies already offering massive discounts.

Christmas is probably my busiest time of year and it's really important for my income as I usually sell items full price, but I feel under pressure to offer discounts on Black Friday this year.

How do I get this right?

Not all Black Friday offers are actually as good as they claim to be, according to research (Pictured posed by model)

Sarah Davidson, of This is Money, replies: As you rightly point out, it's virtually impossible to avoid the flood of Black Friday promotions in the shops and online at the moment, with many firms starting their cut-price offers as early as a week ahead.

Wanting to get in on the act is understandable, but as you say - it's important to get it right.

There are various retailers out there taking advantage of the hype but not actually offering customers a good deal at all.

Data from product price comparison website Idealo reveals that a large proportion of items on 'sale' are actually cheaper a month either side of the event.

Ultimately, whether you decide to put your products on sale and join the Black Friday rush is up to you, but if your do staying on the right side of the rules on 'sale' pricing is essential.

Gemma Lockyer, a solicitor at technology and digital media focused law firm Kemp Little, replies: In recent years Black Friday has become an important date in the calendar for retailers.

For many it signifies the start of the holiday shopping season and is seen as a potential indicator of a retailer’s likely sales performance over the whole Christmas period.

Consumers are keen to spend during this time and, with increasing trouble on the high streets as online sales grow, rates increase and stores close, retailers are likely to be running a wide range of promotions and advertising campaigns to get consumers spending online and in store.

The Advertising Standards Authority has recently set out new guidance to make sure retailers get their promotional activity right.

This guidance applies to all non-broadcast marketing communications, from traditional print advertisements in newspapers or leaflets to online advertisements, e-mails or advertorials.

The guidance focuses on four types of claims often made in promotional campaigns and the potential pitfalls to be aware of when making those claims:

Savings claims: Was £100, now £50

If you're making a claim that an amount can be saved, that claim must be genuine, accurate and must not exaggerate the saving that could be made.

To decide how to describe a savings claim, retailers will need to consider pricing history and sales data.

The 'was' price should be the normal selling price and should have been consistently charged over a reasonable period.

Increasing the price of the product for a week in the run up to the sale period to then describe the saving as bigger than it truly is would mislead consumers.

Availability claims: Subject to availability

Hopefully the promotion is a success and goods or items will be in high demand.

Retailers should estimate the likely demand for the goods or items in the promotion before running the campaign to avoid disappointing consumers.

It is important to communicate with consumers in a timely manner if, during a promotion, the estimated demand can no longer be met.

Phrases such as 'subject to availability' are not always enough and it is important to consider how to communicate with consumers when stock has become limited, for example if an offer has been promoted through a website or social media then an update through the same channel could be used to update consumers.

Advertising standards apply to all retailers, even if you sell exclusively online

From and up to pricing claims

Any from or up to pricing claim must represent the true overall picture of the price promotion.

This requires a significant proportion of sale items to be discounted at the maximum saving stated.

To ensure consumers are not misled, it is important to also consider the distribution of sale items across different pricing bands.

Placing a significant proportion of items with a disproportionately lower starting price in the maximum saving band will likely be seen to mislead consumers.

Misleading claims: 5 per cent off everything in store*

*subject to terms and conditions

If an offer does not apply to everything then retailers should not claim that it does.

Even with restrictions in footnotes or a note that certain items are excluded, if the headline message is that the promotion applies to all items then that headline claim is likely to be misleading to consumers if it is not true.

It applies to everyone

If you're making a claim that an amount can be saved, that claim must be genuine

Whether a retailer is running a small independent boutique, operating online only or responsible for running the promotional campaigns for a high street giant, the Advertising Standards Authority has the power to require retailers to amend or withdraw an advertisement that breaks the rules set out in its CAP Code.

They also have the power to ask internet search websites to remove the paid-for search advertisements if those advertisements link to a page on the retailer’s website that contains material which breaks the rules.

The risk of reputational damage should also never be underestimated as the name and details of the problem with the advertisement may be featured on a dedicated section of the Advertising Standards Authority’s website which has been designed to appear in search engine results when a consumer searches for a retailer’s website.

With the risks involved in getting promotional marketing wrong, the overarching themes retailers should always keep in mind are the need to always be honest; ensure promotions are prepared with a sense of responsibility towards consumers and society; and always adhere to the principles of fair competition.

====== 874 ========

CALL TO BRING BACK 100% MORTGAGES FOR FIRST-TIME BUYERS TO HELP THEM GET ONTO THE PROPERTY LADDER

First-time buyers should be allowed to take out controversial 100 per cent mortgages where no deposit is required, says a major industry body.

The home loans were blamed for fuelling the 2008 financial crisis, but the Building Societies Association (BSA) says lenders should 'revisit' them to help young people get on to the property ladder.

Controversial: 100 per cent mortgages were blamed for fuelling the 2008 financial crisis

Seven building societies and two banks, Barclays and Aldermore, already offer 100 per cent mortgages.

However, these lenders either insist on having a parent act as a guarantor or demand a relative put some of their own money into a ring-fenced account in case the borrower cannot meet the repayments.

The BSA is suggesting lenders go a step further and consider offering regular 100 per cent mortgages 'in selective circumstances'.

It says that 'there are circumstances in which the risk can be mitigated — borrowers in certain professions [or] those with high probabilities of substantial inheritance'.

But critics warn borrowers could face negative equity, where they are left with debts higher than the value of their home, if house prices fall.

Dominik Lipnicki, of the broker Your Mortgage Decisions, says: 'It's too risky — we've been down that road before. These mortgages were scrapped for a reason.'

And Conservative MP Sir Peter Bottomley adds: 'Anyone who borrows 100 per cent thinking that interest rates will not go up or that the property's price will rise is potentially making a life-changing mistake.'

l.eccles@dailymail.co.uk

====== 875 ========

THREE MILLION BRITONS 'WILL STILL BE PAYING THEIR MORTGAGE DURING THEIR RETIREMENT', STUDY CLAIMS

About 3million homeowners will still be paying off their mortgage during retirement, figure have revealed.

And one in ten homeowners over the age of 55 fear that they will never be mortgage-free.

Experts say that soaring property prices mean buyers now cannot afford a home until much later in life, and then have to take on bigger mortgages.

