6. Balquhidder to Inverlochlarig, Perthshire

Rob Roy is buried in the churchyard in the little village of Balquhidder next to Loch Voil. From his grave, it is a joy to walk along the water’s edge all the way to Inverlochlarig, about eight miles (or further if you feel like it), with the hills rising all around you. The Monachyle Mhor hotel, by the loch, makes a good stopping off point for refreshments (monachylemhor.net).

Sublime: Langdale Valley in Cumbria, pictured, has breathtaking views of the mountains

7. Hadrian’s Wall, Northumberland

Hadrian’s Wall Path is another official National Trail that runs for 83 miles along the Unesco World Heritage Site (nationaltrail.co.uk/hadrians-wall-path). Visit the old forts, stop at cosy pubs and go as far as you feel like – the website has a good distance calculator. Don’t miss the stretch after Haltwhistle heading east to Newcastle.

8. Martinhoe to Heddon Valley, North Devon

From the Old Rectory Hotel in Martinhoe (oldrectoryhotel.co.uk) it is about a three-mile walk along the North Devon coastline – another part of the South West Coast Path and within Exmoor National Park – to Heddon Valley. The views are awesome and at the end there is a terrific pub, the Hunter’s Inn (thehuntersinnexmoor.co.uk).

9. Langdale Valley, Cumbria

Pit stop: The Daily Mail's Tom Chesshyre recommends rewarding yourself with a drink at Wainrights Inn in Cumbria

It is a ten-mile walk from Wainrights Inn (langdale.co.uk) taking in a big loop around this sublime valley in the Lake District. Pass an old quarry and head across isolated heathland before curving back. Wainrights makes a good target thanks to its great food and crackling fires.

10. Gravesend to the Isle of Grain, Kent

Who couldn’t have a soft spot for this 20-mile walk through the mysterious marshland that Charles Dickens describes in Great Expectations? This walk came at the end of my 350-mile hike following the course of the Thames from its source in Gloucestershire. This is old smuggler land and the estuary views are atmospheric.

====== 1100 ========

GREAT BRITISH BOLTHOLES: RATHFINNY WINE ESTATE IN EAST SUSSEX

You may not have heard of Rathfinny, but head to the South Downs, beyond the pretty village of Alfriston in East Sussex, and you’ll discover an exciting new destination for English wine.

Rathfinny Wine Estate is a labour of love for husband-and-wife owners Mark and Sarah Driver, who bought the 600 acres in 2010. They recognised that the undulating slopes and chalky soil would be perfect for grapes to produce sparkling wine.

The first vines were planted in 2012 and last month Rathfinny harvested a bumper crop. By 2022, the estate expects to produce more than 80,000 cases of sparkling wine.

Bumper crop: Vines outside the 40-seater Winery Tasting Room

Rathfinny offers bed and breakfast at the restored Flint Barns, which can also be hired for parties. With ten bedrooms, it’s a small, modern retreat where you can enjoy meals in an airy loft-style communal dining room with open kitchen and bar.

While it’s a great place to stay for walkers who want to explore the South Downs Way, Rathfinny is all about the wine, and tours reveal its breathtaking scale.

There is also the Rathfinny trail, a well-marked 30-minute route around the estate – keep an eye out for skylarks, hares and Adonis blue butterflies.

Back at the barns, settle into a sofa in the lounge and warm yourself next to the wood-burning fire. In summer, enjoy a Seven Sisters gin and tonic (Rathfinny-produced) in the cobbled courtyard.

The USP: The 40-seater Winery Tasting Room opened last summer and attracts quite a crowd. The outdoor wraparound terrace is where you can enjoy a drink and admire the vines in the sun.

Comfort and style: A family room at Rathfinny, which features bunk beds

The rooms: Luxury meets functional in flint-walled bedrooms, with iron beds and pristine bedding, all softened by a posy of fresh flowers. Family rooms have bunk beds.

The food: The Flint Barns serves a cracking English breakfast, and Saturday suppers and Sunday lunches are very popular. For a foodie adventure, try the Winery Tasting Room’s tasting menu offering fish, meat and vegetarian options, including delicious morsels such as baked squash stuffed with chestnut, sage and ricotta risotto. Wine is not included but the list is not crazily expensive and the sparkling Sussex rosé is sublime.

====== 1101 ========

FORGET ITALY - I'VE DISCOVERED GOLD IN GORGEOUS GREECE

It's a sparkling July morning in the Pindus mountains of north-west Greece. Three dogs dig energetically at the base of an oak tree on the green, forested slopes. In seconds, they strike metaphorical gold: a clutch of truffles, the biggest one half the size of my fist.

Our guide, Vasilli, beams. Since we set off an hour earlier, he has almost filled his backpack with the precious fungi – a harvest worth hundreds of euros.

Each time the dogs unearth lumpy delicacies, their owner, Katerina Nola, prises the truffles from them – their reward is a sliver she cuts off with her penknife. ‘I realised the climate, soil and vegetation here were similar to Tuscany about 15 years ago,’ she explains. ‘I was convinced we’d find enough truffles to make hunting commercially viable. And I was right.’

Rocky highs: The Meteora monastery, perched on rocky pinnacles hundreds of feet high

My wife Carolyn, son Daniel and I join the hunt, chasing dogs across the rugged landscape. Summer truffles, such as these, can fetch £500 a kilo. The white ones found in autumn and winter are rarer, but more valuable: they are worth about £2,000 a kilo.

Afterwards, at a table in Katerina’s garden, she makes a delicious lunch: mushroom and truffle soup, potato gratin with truffle chips, and a truffle omelette, all washed down with excellent local red wine.

Truffle hunting is arranged by the Metsovo Grand Forest, a five-star resort where you can dine in an exceptional restaurant with sensational views.

Few Britons ever visit, but it’s gorgeous: a land of craggy limestone peaks, thick forests, clear rivers and stone villages. The hiking is superb. There is even skiing in winter.

The Pindus lie in the Epirus region, close to the Albanian border. We’d driven from sightseeing in Athens, where we’d stayed at the Radisson Blu Park and found it blessed, with a rooftop restaurant commanding a full view of the Parthenon.

Driving in Greece – Athens to Epirus takes about five hours – turned out to be easy and the roads were good.

While in Metsovo, we took a day to visit the Byzantine monasteries of Meteora, perched on rocky pinnacles hundreds of feet high. The next day, we drove through the hills further west to the mighty Vikos gorge.

Jackpot: David and his family went truffle hunting in the Pindus mountains

We then checked into the Aristi Mountain Lodge, an excellent boutique resort with spectacular views. We took a rafting trip on the Aos river with Hellas Trekking (trekking.gr.) In high summer the rapids are not extreme, but the water was the bluest and clearest I’ve ever seen.

We later moved from mountain to the Sesa Boutique Hotel at Karnali. It was easy to take day-trips from here south to Lefkadia, with its wooded hills and pristine beaches, and north to Nekromanteion, the ancient entrance to the underworld.

Archaeologists who excavated its underground vaults, temple and oracle are said to have followed directions they found in The Odyssey. Homer, it seems, was not only a poet but a reliable guide.

No Greek trip is complete without a few days on an island. We chose Corfu and the stunning Villa Piedra, the loveliest we’ve visited thanks to its tranquil garden and infinity pool.

Greece, we learned, has much more to offer than white-sand beaches, white-walled villages and the package holidays of the Aegean islands.

====== 1102 ========

SEE ANDRE RIEU PLAY IN MAASTRICHT

Showcasing his impressive repertoire of delightful melodies from opera, musicals, film and, of course, dazzling waltzes, international violin star Andre Rieu continues to enchant audiences year after year.

One of the greatest modern contributors to classical music, the man dubbed ‘The Waltz King’ performs in his home city of Maastricht each year – and you could delight in the unrivalled opportunity of seeing him live next July.

Delivering the experience of a lifetime, the three- and five-day packages allow you to enjoy some of the world’s finest music in a relaxing atmosphere. They also include guided tours of the delightful Dutch city.

Musical maestro : Andre's concert in Maastricht earlier this year, pictured above

Why go to Maastricht?

As one of The Netherlands’ oldest cities, Maastricht exudes charm, with a new discovery waiting to be made at every corner. Explore the remains of Roman ruins on show in the Derlon Museum Cellar, admire buildings left by the city’s Spanish rulers in the 16th Century, take fascinating medieval city walks, and unravel a labyrinth of beguiling tunnels in this beautifully historic place.

Box office sensation

Not only will you uncover the history of Maastricht, you will watch Andre Rieu perform in his home city. Every year, he attracts more than 700,000 fans to his concerts, making him one of the top-ten touring acts in the world.

His concerts in Maastricht in July are broadcast live in cinemas around the world and have been known for smashing box office records.

Something special

Championed in the world of classical music for his pioneering style of performance, Andre started playing the violin at the age of five, and plays a 1667 Stradivarius.

Did you know?

The record-breaking maestro boasts over 40-million worldwide sales – no wonder the musical sensation continually sells out tours all over Europe year after year.

====== 1103 ========

THE BEST EUROPEAN CHRISTMAS MARKETS FOR 2018

They’ve never been more popular.

So pour the gluhwein and wrap up warm as Europe’s cities twinkle with lights, stately trees and a million-and-one Yuletide shopping opportunities.

From Strasbourg to York, here’s our pick of the best Christmas markets for 2018 . . .

Winter wonderland: Haumpmarkt square in Nuremberg, pictured above

POLISHED IN POLAND

Krakow’s seasonal shindig — when 80 stalls cram into its 13th-century market square — promises choral music, horse-and-cart rides and a ‘best nativity’ competition. There’s fall-off-the-bone pork knuckle and morsels of Tatra mountains sheep’s cheese. A dusting of snow usually ramps up the festive-o-meter too.

STAR BUY: A tiny, blue and white Boleslawiec pottery Christmas tree.

WHEN AND WHERE: November 30 to Boxing Day, Rynek Glowny (discovercracow.com).

BOOK IT: Doubles at the five-star Hotel Stary on December 14 cost £251, hotelstary.com. Ryanair flies to Krakow from £130 (ryanair.com).

GO FOR EXPERIENCE

Self-styled capital of Christmas, Strasbourg’s sprawling 300-chalet tinsel-fest is so impressive visitors often stay three days. The centuries-old market has French and German influences in bretzels (doughy pretzels), foie gras, sauerkraut and tarte flambees.

STAR BUY: Tins of bredele, Alsace biscuits.

WHEN AND WHERE: November 24 to December 30, across the city (noel.strasbourg.eu/en/accueil).

BOOK IT: Doubles at the four-star Le Moon hotel from £171 (lemoon-strasbourg.com). Go to Strasbourg in December on Eurostar from London’s St Pancras from £198 return (eurostar.com).

BRITISH FAVOURITE

York’s medieval streets, circled by 13th-century walls, provide an atmospheric spot for the St Nicholas Fair. Imaginative gifts abound too; from hand-made puppets to Viking-style drinking horns, a nod to the city’s erstwhile inhabitants. And York Minster is always within view.

STAR BUY: Crumbly Christmas Wensleydale.

WHEN AND WHERE: November 15 to December 23, Parliament Street (visityork.org).

BOOK IT: Five-star Principal York from £179 a night on December 14, (phcompany.com, 01904 653 681).

SCANDI-STYLE

Advent brings a village of little red huts to Gamla Stan, Stockholm’s old town. Beat the cold with toasty Swedish dishes like lussekatter (saffron buns), glogg (mulled wine) and — gulp — reindeer meat served with almond potatoes.

STAR BUY: Traditional hand-carved wooden Dala horses.

WHEN AND WHERE: November 24 to December 23, Gamla Stan (visitstockholm.com)

BOOK IT: Sunvil has three-night breaks to Stockholm in December for £650pp, based on two sharing at Nobis Hotel. Price includes breakfast, flights, private transfers and a 48-hour Stockholm Pass (sunvil.co.uk, 020 8758 4722).

Winter warmer: These Christmas markets are sure to get you feeling festive (stock image)

FESTIVE FUSION

A happy collision of cultures takes place in late November when Florence’s central piazza transforms into a German Weihnachtsmarkt.

The 55-hut market, close to the Duomo, has plenty of traditional Bavarian fare but Firenze — and Italy — is well represented, too, with delicious Florentines and soaps infused with Tuscan herbs among the retail delights.

STAR BUY: A divinely-boxed panettone (festive Italian cake).

WHEN AND WHERE: November 28 to December 20, at the Piazza Santa Croce (visit florence.com).

BOOK IT: Citalia has a three-night break to Florence from £408 pp, flying BA from London on December 1. Price includes B&B at the four-star plus Hotel Brunelleschi, (citalia.com, 01293 831 970).

TRADITION RULES

Bavaria is aglow with festive cheer come early December and Nuremberg leads the way with its Christkindlesmarkt in historic Hauptmarkt square. Candy-striped huts serve up rum-laced Gluhwein and small mountains of Lebkuchen — soft, spicy gingerbread. Check out the international market for gifts from further afield.

STAR BUY: A Drei im Weggla (three sausages in a roll), the city’s signature festive snack.

WHEN AND WHERE: November 30 to Christmas Eve, Hauptmarkt (christkindlesmarkt.de/en)

BOOK IT: Two nights at the five-star Meridien Grand Hotel Nuremberg costs £448 based on two sharing, marriott.com. Flights with BA to Nuremberg in mid-December cost from £100, ba.com

FULL FIESTA

As enchanting as it is huge, Basel’s market is among the most visited Christmas attractions in Switzerland. Across its 180 stalls, melting cheese features heavily, with giant fondues and raclettes offering bubbling hot sustenance for shoppers. There’s a fairytale forest attraction for children too, with candle and decoration making.

STAR BUY: Bespoke baubles glass-fired while you watch.

WHEN AND WHERE: November 22 to December 23, on Barfüsserplatz and Munsterplatz in the old town, (basel.com).

BOOK IT: Stay at the five-star Hyperion Hotel Basel from £120 a night for a double room, h-hotels.com. Fly to Basel with Swiss from Heathrow for £207 in mid-December, swiss.com.

A CHILD'S DREAM

Merry: The traditional Christmas market is held in Tallinn's Town Hall Square in Estonia

There’s been a Christmas tree in Tallinn’s Town Hall Square in Estonia since 1441, and the market now forms a star shape around it, with rustic huts often cloaked in fresh snow. An authentic-looking Old Saint Nick welcomes children into his festooned house, and there’s Baltic winter specialities including hearty portions of steaming black pudding and cabbage.

STAR BUY: Fruit bowls crafted from pine, cosy felt slippers.

WHEN AND WHERE: November 16 to January 7, Town Hall Square (visitestonia.com).

BOOK IT: Two nights at the boutique five-star Three Sisters Hotel costs £339 including breakfast, relaischateaux.com. Air Baltic flies to the Estonian capital from £112 based on December 11 flights, airbaltic.com.

====== 1104 ========

FROM THEME PARKS TO SAFARIS: DUBAI IS THE ULTIMATE PLAYGROUND FOR KIDS

Aaaarghh,’ screamed Imogen, at the fabulous moment of surprise when we came face to face with Toothless from How To Train Your Dragon, feeling the beast’s breath on our cheeks.

We were suspended from coaster tracks in Motiongate, one of the main attractions in the new Dubai Parks complex.

Dubai has long been a favourite family destination, but Dubai Parks seems to have raised the bar. Designed to mimic Florida’s theme parks, the difference here is that the six inter-connected attractions are all in one place.

Dazzling: Dubai’s Business district, which is home to the world’s tallest building

It opened in December 2016, with the final part, the Six Flags rollercoaster Park, due to launch next year.

Until then it is perhaps best suited to families with younger children — perfect for us with Maisie, eight, and Imogen, six, in tow. And if crowded theme parks are not your bag, the trick is to avoid weekends and public holidays.

The parks are vast, but time it right and you won’t have many queues. In fact, How To Train Your Dragon was the only ride we queued for all day.

We began in the Legoland Water Park, for children from two to 12, with all the classic waterpark ingredients. Our favourite was the racer, where you slide on a mat and twist through individual tubes before rejoining for a final sun-kissed race through the rollers.

Almost as exhilarating is a desert safari tour. In times past, caravans of camels carried traders through the sands. Today the caravans are Toyota Land Cruisers, racing through the landscape picking out every feature, banking on dunes and dropping off their steep slopes like freestyling sandboarders.

Our driver, Alfred, has been doing this for 22 years, and it takes real skill to keep control on the deflated tyres with dust flying up from the other vehicles.

You end up at a camp where the children get to ride a camel, try sand-boarding, get a henna tattoo and watch a starlit belly dancing and fire-juggling show. It’s a somewhat hackneyed tourist staple, but the children love it.

We were staying at the Oberoi in Dubai’s Business Bay district, home to the world’s tallest building, the Burj Khalifa.

The Oberoi is well positioned for the city’s parks and malls, and has a large rooftop pool. On Fridays, it hosts Karnival, a renowned brunch, the highlight being your own dragon’s breath passion fruit meringue ‘cooked’ in liquid nitrogen. It is astonishing to think that this whole mini-city has been built from scratch in just 12 years — the pace of building here as breathtaking as the view of the Burj from our 17th-floor hotel window.

Fun in the sun: Legoland Water Park is geared for children aged 2-12 years old

Perhaps the most intriguing current development project however is Al Zorah, in Ajman, aka the forgotten Emirate, located 25 minutes from Dubai International airport. Al Zorah is an eco-development centred around some of the Middle East’s most beautiful mangroves, with a marina, championship golf course, wildlife reserve and long stretch of prime coastline.

Visit it now and you’ll have it practically to yourselves.

The man to know is Brian Parry from Questforadventure.net, who has set up kayaking mangrove tours here as well as a wakeboard cable park.

Brian explained what makes the area special as we kayaked through a network of narrow channels. ‘The eco-system is extremely healthy as it has been untouched for so long,’ he said. ‘The mangroves are the tallest in the UAE and we have 118 different bird species.’

We felt like proper explorers and the girls howled in delight as a flock of pink flamingos came into view. ‘The flamingos follow the tide through the mangroves, feeding as they go,’ said Brian.

Later that day, we tried wakeboarding, the expert English instructors getting Maisie to stand up. She is now hooked.

Instead of being towed by a boat, wakeboarding involves holding on to a rope attached to a cable mechanism that takes you around a circuit.

All the infrastructure is in place to develop accommodation for 100,000 people, but currently the only hotel that has been built is (yes, another) Oberoi, a low-key limestone-clad design by the world-famous architect Pierro Lissoni.

The children loved the 85 metre-long pool and wave-jumping on the private beach, while we lapped up the serene architectural design, complimentary yoga classes and excellent food. It felt special to be here at the start of the project. But hurry, with the pace of building work, there will be a whole city in place before too long.

====== 1105 ========

AN ENCHANTING ADVENTURE IN A DREAMY REGION OF SWEDEN

Swedish children grow up enraptured by trolls. Stories handed down the generations feature the big-nosed creatures, roaming from forest dwellings to make mischief in towns.

Could it be that these rascals have scuppered my plans in Smaland, a wild region of southern Sweden? My troll-themed boat trip has been cancelled because a tree fell that morning, blocking the route.

But eventually I arrive at the edge of a forest, where sunbeams break through the canopy to give an other worldly quality to silver cobwebs and birch trees’ creamy bark. A scarlet toadstool shines like a ruby in the moss. A fairy surely will soon fly past.

Solitude: An island cabin on Orken lake, which is where Siobhan spent a night

Swedes have a name for a place like this: ‘Bauer forest’. The artist John Bauer, born in 1882, captured a fantasy world of nature in his paintings for children’s fairy tale books, featuring giants, princesses and trolls. This month marks the centenary of his death. So, I have come to where he was born and died.

Smaland is a land of vast spruce, pine and birch forests, bogs and swamps — including a ‘marsh sea’ called Storre Mosse — around 5,000 lakes.

My first base is the John Bauer Hotel in Jonkoping (pronounced ‘Yon-sherping’), 90 minutes from Gothenburg airport. Exploring its suburbs on the windswept shore of Lake Vattern, Sweden’s second largest lake, I learn that despite their fantasy worlds, Swedes have a deadpan side, too.

‘This city has thousands of free parking spaces,’ my guide informs me. ‘Smalanders are known as the Scotsmen of Scandinavia — we don’t like to pay.’ Free too, is the Jonkopings Lans Museum, where an exhibition is dedicated to the area’s famous illustrator. It features ‘singing’ moose stepping out of the walls.

On November 19, 1918, a boat set off on the lake with John Bauer, his wife Esther, and their two-year old son Bengt. Next day, the only sign of it was a floating toddler’s shoe. The steamer had sunk, along with 24 people on board. Locals have no qualms recounting this tale. But then, Smalanders have never been head-in-the-clouds types.

One of these is Jan, an engineer who quit the rat race to build the Ramoa Adventure Village in the wilderness an hour and a half from the city. Jan explains his masterplan. ‘For Swedes, being in nature is a spiritual experience. So we want people to feel as close to it as possible.’

Fantasy: John Bauer captured a fantasy world of nature in his paintings for children’s fairy tale books, featuring giants, princesses and trolls

There’s adventure here, if you want it, with watersports on the lake in summer and ice-skating in winter. But the focus is on connecting with your surroundings.

Accommodation takes different forms. Jan hands some people a map and they head off into the forest to find a hammock between the trees. I opt to stay on a tiny island in the wide Orken lake, alone, in a 2 metre by 2 metre wooden hut.

Jan says: ‘It was built for crayfish parties.’ (A Swedish tradition where everyone dons pointy paper hats to feast on their haul).

The growl of Jan’s speedboat fades, not to return until daylight. I feel a twang of apprehension.

But then, it’s so calm. No mod cons or distractions. No insects singing. The lake is still, with light from the full moon reflected onto it as if it’s rolled out a glittering VIP carpet, just for me. In the morning, seeing mist drift against the sunrise, I remember Jan’s departing words: ‘If you see mist rising from the lake, it means elves have been dancing on it.’

Bauer’s friend believed the artist deep down thought the creatures he painted all truly existed. After my night on this fairytale island, I might be persuaded to agree.

====== 1106 ========

AN INSPECTOR CALLS... A REVIEW OF BLYTHSWOOD SQUARE HOTEL, GLASGOW

There are few better locations than the Blythswood Square Hotel to enjoy what Glasgow has to offer, a mere six-minute walk or so from George Square, where — presumably to the chagrin of Nicola Sturgeon — statues of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert stand near the central column celebrating Sir Walter Scott.

The hotel used to be the HQ of the Royal Scottish Automobile Club and the square itself was the haunt of ladies of the night — hence the red lights in the windows.

A super-polite American (‘I come from a little west of here’) shows us to our room, which has high ceilings, grey walls and a marble bathroom with huge shower.

Location, location, location: Blythswood Square Hotel is close to the iconic George Square

On the first floor running practically the width of the building is the Salon, with its snazzy cocktail bar. It’s a Saturday night. Plenty of high heels, colourful shirts, bulging muscles.

The restaurant is on the ground floor, where we order two dreary shrimp cocktails (watery and not nearly enough Marie Rose sauce) and a couple of goodish steaks. Service is slow.

Then there’s an unfortunate back-up in the morning. Too many people have come down for breakfast at the same time. We are asked to take a seat in a holding area. Our room number is noted. ‘We’ll call you when a table becomes available.’

That’s not ideal at these prices. But once we are allowed down the sweeping red carpet, the buffet is generous. We wolf far more than is good for us before heading off to explore arguably the most self-deprecating city in the world.

As Billy Connolly said: ‘The best thing about Glasgow is that if there’s a nuclear attack, it’ll look exactly the same afterwards.’ Nonsense, but refreshing that a Scot can joke about it so mercilessly.

Stylish: One of the rooms at the Blythswood Square Hotel, pictured above

====== 1107 ========

LNER ROLLS OUT APP THAT TELLS PASSENGERS WHICH SEATS ARE FREE IN EVERY CARRIAGE

Sensors that detect whether a seat is free have been rolled out across an entire UK train fleet for the first time.

London North Eastern Railway (LNER) has begun using the technology above seats on all its trains to make it easier for passengers to avoid having to stand.

The system, which was first trialled in August, detects which seats are occupied by activating beam sensors twice between each station the train stops at.

LNER's digital seat maps show passengers which seats are free and which are taken using a traffic light system

Passengers can view digital maps showing which seats are free by connecting their smartphones to the onboard wi-fi.

A traffic light system has also been installed above seats to display their current and future availability.

This consists of:

Green when a seat is unreserved for the whole journey.

Amber when a seat is reserved for part of the journey.

Red when a seat is reserved for the whole journey.

Research by the train operator showed the lengths that passengers will go to secure a seat on a service, with almost a quarter (22 per cent) admitting they have a strategy to ensure they travel in comfort.

A survey showed that two-thirds (64 per cent) of passengers have deliberately lingered near seated passengers just before the train pulls into a station, while over a third (39 per cent) use the tactic of 'kestrelling' - hovering over an apparently vacant seat to wait and see whether it's free.

Thirty per cent regularly 'coach patrol' – walk up and down train carriages to search for an available seat - whilst 65 per cent use the ping-pong tactic of frantically turning left and right to figure out which way to go to find a seat.

The research also revealed that confronting someone who's sitting in a reserved seat is too much for some.

LNER took over the operation of trains on the East Coast Main Line from Virgin Trains East Coast in June

Forty per cent of passengers regularly book seats in advance to avoid run-ins with others, while over a half of people (56 per cent) have felt too awkward to ask another passenger to move out of their reserved seat or move bags off seats.

Meanwhile 36 per cent admitted to having sat elsewhere because someone was sleeping in their reserved seat and nearly a quarter (24 per cent) have moved coaches following a 'seat altercation'.

And half of those surveyed (51 per cent) would actually prefer to stand or look for an alternative seat than ask a passenger to vacate their reserved seat.

LNER took over the operation of trains on the East Coast Main Line from Virgin Trains East Coast (VTEC) on June 24, returning the route to public ownership.

Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn was involved in a long-running row over seats with VTEC after recording a video in which he sat on the floor of a London to Newcastle train in August 2016.

Mr Corbyn claimed the service was 'ram-packed' but VTEC insisted he and his team walked past available seats before filming started.

LNER commercial director Suzanne Donnelly said: 'We know some of our customers can become anxious when they are trying to find a seat, whether they are asking for their reserved seat back from another passenger or struggling to find an available unreserved space.

'The innovative seat sensor technology addresses this by making it much easier for all of our customers to find a seat. We hope this improves their overall journey experience.'

====== 1108 ========

VIRGIN ATLANTIC COULD FACE PILOTS' STRIKE OVER BENEFITS

Virgin Atlantic could face a pilots' strike during the busy Christmas period in a row over benefits.

The UK-based carrier, which is owned by Sir Richard Branson's Virgin Group and U.S. airline Delta, has refused to negotiate with the Professional Pilots Union (PPU), the union says.

The PPU represents 450 of the company's 800 pilots but says Virgin Atlantic has only negotiated with rival union Balpa.

Virgin Atlantic could face a pilots' strike during the busy Christmas period in a row over benefits

And in a statement, the PPU explained it would be balloting members on strike action after the airline 'refused to consult with the union on the deal'.

It said: '(The) union is threatening strike action unless the company include them in the negotiations and scrap the (benefits) review.'

However, a spokeswoman for Virgin Atlantic said there was currently no strike action planned but added that it could work with the PPU in future if it dropped a demand.

She explained: 'We've always been willing in principle to recognise the PPU, but we won't agree to their demand that we de-recognise Balpa, and disenfranchise the hundreds of pilots who belong to this union.'

It is believed that Virgin Atlantic had informed pilots last week of changes to the terms and conditions in their contracts.

Air France-KLM is due to buy 31 per cent of Virgin Atlantic from Virgin Group, making it the second-largest shareholder after Delta

According to the Financial Times, these included capping an income protection scheme at five years, cancelling a dependents’ pension scheme, and reducing corporate pension contributions from 15 per cent to 10 per cent.

But the PPU has reportedly branded these proposals as a 'cost-cutting exercise' and a vote for industrial action could see walkouts at the busiest time of the year for aviation.

Air France-KLM is due to buy 31 per cent of Virgin Atlantic from Virgin Group, making it the second-largest shareholder after Delta.

The deal is expected to be completed in 2019.

====== 1109 ========

CORNWALL IS YOUR OYSTER: ENJOYING A MASTERCLASS IN NEWQUAY ON THE ORIGINAL SUPERFOOD

The worst thing you can do is gulp and swallow. Luxuriate, let it roll around your tongue, I am told.

Taking my cue, I tip my head back and let the contents of the oyster shell slide into my mouth as white horses sweep onto Newquay beach behind me.

Don Draper in TV's Mad Men once referred to oysters as like eating a mermaid. But this, according to Katy Davidson, aka The Oyster Lady, is wide of the mark. 'Oysters are more like wines,' she tells me before the start of her masterclass, an experience tailored for everyone from mollusc lovers to refusniks.

The Oyster Lady: Katy Davidson demonstrates shucking an oyster for one of her masterclasses

Earlier in the day, Katy, 42, whose passion for oysters began on childhood family holidays to France, takes me to the source for rock, or Pacific oysters.

Rock Shellfish, a clutter of sheds overlooking the harbour of the chic village of Rock - home to Gordon Ramsay and Harry Enfield - is where Porthilly oysters from the river Camel, grown in mesh bags on the nearby estuary for between 16 months and two years, are harvested, purified and sold to restaurants from Cambourne to Canary Wharf.

It's the most luxurious conveyor belt I've ever seen, groaning with oysters of all sizes, glistening in their mottled shells.

Father and son Tim and Luke Marshall, who have been farming in this region for five generations, select, grade and sort the oysters according to size.

'There are so many myths about oysters,' says Luke. 'The main one is about the time of year. It's true for native oysters that they should be eaten in months that end in an 'r'. But the rock oysters we produce here are fine at any time.' Back at Catch, a seafood restaurant in Newquay, five of us sit down to taste oysters, drink wine and learn to shuck.

Surf and Slurp: The views over Towan beach, Newquay, where The Oyster Lady holds her classes

Wielding a sharp knife, Katy patiently shows us how to slide the blade into the 'hinge' of the oyster before gently levering it open and severing the muscle that attaches the flesh to the shell. There are more than a few 'fails' before I get the knack.

But, within an hour, we're happily cracking open the mountain of oysters in front of us and swapping tasting notes with descriptions ranging from 'teardrops' to 'black olives' to 'seaweed'.

The original superfood: Once plucked from the river Thames and handed out in pubs, now served in high end restaurants across the country

'You're eating something incredible here,' Katy tells us. 'These are the original superfood. And don't worry about eating them raw. If you want toput tabasco on them, or lemon juice, or grill them, then that's fine. I'm passionate about getting rid of the snobbery surrounding oysters.' In Victorian London oysters were cheap. Found in their millions in the River Thames, they were often handed out free in pubs to entice in customers.

Shucking away to my heart's content, I wonder if oysters will once again become as commonplace as peanuts. Katy is certainly fast winning converts. I began the day as an oyster sceptic and ended it a believer.

====== 1110 ========

THE INCREDIBLE AIR MILES HACKS THAT CAN GIVE YOU 93% OFF BUSINESS AND FIRST CLASS SEATS

Flying business or first class is always an eye-wateringly expensive activity – or is it?

A frequent flyer who runs a flight-tips website has revealed how it’s possible to make utterly sensational savings on top-tier tickets – for example snaring a $10,000 first class seat on a Qantas flight for just over $1,300, an $18,000 first class Cathay Pacific flight for the same, and buying business class seats for mere hundreds.

It sounds almost criminally cheap – but there’s nothing illegal afoot. The secret, it turns out, is to use an incredible air miles offer from Alaska Airlines.

A frequent flyer who runs a flight-tips website has revealed how it’s possible to make utterly sensational savings on top tier tickets – for example snaring a $10,000 first class seat on a Qantas flight for just over $1,300

The frequent flyer, London-based Gilbert Ott, who runs www.godsavethepoints.com, explains that Alaska is currently offering a 50 per cent bonus when you buy points.

Mr Ott says that this is the highest bonus that Alaska has ever publicly offered.

So you can purchase 60,000 points for $1,182 (£900) or 70,000 for $1,389 (£1,060).

That’s a lot of points - enough to snag incredible savings on business class and first class seats on its partner airlines around the world - Qantas, Cathay Pacific and Japan Airlines, for example.

Mr Ott said: 'If you want to experience flat beds without the $2,500 and up price tag, this is your opportunity.'

The catch? Your account needs to be open for 10 days before you can book, but the sale is on until December 21 and you can book flights up to 355 days away.

Here’s how you can grab jaw-dropping deals.

Asian bargain

These tickets could be yours for $467 if you use Mr Ott's cunning strategy

Mr Ott, writing on his site, said 25,000 points means you could ‘fly from anywhere in Southeast Asia served by Japan Airlines to Tokyo, stopover for as long as you want in Tokyo, and then carry on to wherever else in Asia you want to go, even including India’.

The cost? Mr Ott says that these two flat-bed flights would cost around $3,000 (£2,300) ordinarily – using your 25,000 points, you’d have paid just $467 (£356).

To book, search to see if what you want is available on JAL by searching ‘multi city’ and ‘using miles’ on AlaskaAir.com.

Mr Ott added: ‘It’s that simple. The JAL flights will show up if any are available on the dates you want. Key operating principle: Don’t buy points unless you find what you want.’

Hong Kong to New Zealand round trip

London-based Gilbert Ott runs www.godsavethepoints.com

For 30,000 or 60,000 points Mr Ott claims you can snare a deal that is ‘nothing short of incredible’.

Spend $1,200-worth of Alaska points and you can get a $5,000 (£3,800) Cathay Pacific Business Class seat from Hong Kong to Auckland, which is a saving of 75 per cent.

To book it is a strange process, though.

Mr Ott explains all: ‘Only certain airline seats using points appear on certain airline websites. Alaska is unable to display Cathay seats most often, but BA or Qantas can.

‘So if I wanted to do this deal I would make a free account with BA or Qantas. I would then use their “search using points” feature to search on this route, for example HKG-AKL, looking only for Cathay Pacific flights. If I find something I want available, I’d buy the points and call Alaska, and give them the dates I found for available seats using points on the Cathay Pacific flights. I’d book the seats over the phone, stating that I’d like to use my miles for flights on Cathay between AKL-HKG, or vice versa and make the booking.'

But he has a word of warning: 'This one is high stakes and for a novice the best advice would be to use a booking service like AwardExpert or JuicyMiles to find the seats and actually do it for you.’

The unicorn seats

This $10,000 ticket could be yours for around 85 per cent less if you use Mr Ott's hack

Some deals are so incredible that frequent fliers call them ‘unicorn seats’.

And the Alaska points can land you one. If you spend all 70,000.

Mr Ott says that you can use them to buy first class on Cathay Pacific or Japan Airlines between either Europe or the USA and Asia, or the Middle East to North America.

You might be lucky to find two seats in a month – so it’s important never to buy miles until you’ve found something you can actually use – but move on it immediately. ‘For 93 per cent off, it was never going to be a cakewalk Gilbert Ott

He writes: ‘That’s a truly awesome deal. This is a YOLO, which translated from millennial means “you only live once” and is not for everyone, but if you want to see what it’s like at the very, very front of a top airline cabin, this is as reasonable an opportunity as you’ll find. The same 70,000 points applies with Qantas between the US and Australia in either direction as well, but those seats are just very hard to come by.’

And no wonder, because first class between the USA and Australia on Qantas is a $10,100 (£7,700) ticket. And you’d be getting it for $1,389 (£1,060). That’s a saving of just over 85 per cent.

And you can get an $18,000 Cathay Pacific first class flight from New York to Hong Kong for the same money. That's a staggering saving of 93 per cent.

Here’s how to book.

You can buy this deal one-way for just over $1,300 if you use Mr Ott's hack

Use the ‘search using points’ feature on BA or Qantas to search for seats – and remember, they both show Cathay Pacific flights.

Then buy the points, call Alaska and give them the dates you’ve found for available seats.

Then book the seats over the phone, stating you want to use your miles for the booking.

Again, AwardExpert and JuicyMiles can help.

Mr Ott adds: ‘You might be lucky to find two seats in a month – so it’s important never to buy miles until you’ve found something you can actually use – but move on it immediately.

‘For 93 per cent off, it was never going to be a cakewalk.’

====== 1111 ========

PICTURESQUE COTTAGE THAT FEATURED IN THE VICAR OF DIBLEY IS NOW A £2,000-A-MONTH RENTAL

A picturesque cottage that featured in TV comedy The Vicar of Dibley as the home of one of its much-loved characters is now available to rent.

Windmill Cottage in the picture-postcard village of Turville, Buckinghamshire, was the home of stuttering parish councillor Jim Trott, played by Trevor Peacock, in the BBC sitcom.

The St Mary the Virgin Church, which is directly opposite the cottage, also doubled as Dibley's St Barnabas, where Dawn French's character Geraldine Granger was vicar.

Windmill Cottage in the Buckinghamshire village of Turville, which featured in the TV sitcom The Vicar of Dibley and is now available for rent

The master bedroom has a free-standing bath at the foot of the bed and out of the window there is a sweeping view across the English countryside

The rear garden has a gravel patio and lawn, where the new tenants would be able to entertain guests

The quintessentially English village was also used in Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, four episodes of Midsomer Murders and three shows of Marple.

More recently, it featured in BBC thriller Killing Eve where it doubled as the fictional hamlet of Bletcham, where contract killer Villanelle is sent to assassinate an MI6 agent.

The current owners of three-bed Windmill Cottage have lived there for 20 years but have now decided to rent it out for £1,995 a month with estate agent Savills.

The cosy cottage has just 857 sq ft of space with a kitchen/breakfast room, sitting room, three bedrooms and two bathrooms.

It dates back to 1630 and the sitting room has a traditional fireplace with a log burner.

In the hit BBC show, Windmill Cottage doubled as the home of stuttering parish councillor Jim Trott, played by Trevor Peacock

The cottage boast a modern kitchen and dining room, with large doors that lead out to a gravel patio and back lawn

The current owners of three-bed Windmill Cottage have lived there for 20 years but have now decided to rent it out for £1,995 a month. Pictured is the master bedroom

Trevor Peacock, left, played Councillor Jim Trott in the hit comedy alongside Dawn French, who took the role of local vicar Geraldine Granger

The master bedroom has views over the church, while another bedroom looks out to the rear over countryside towards a windmill.

The rear garden has a gravel patio and lawn and there is also an allocated parking space.

Alex Lee, from Savills, said: 'Turville has been a popular filming location over the years, the famous windmill that featured in Chitty Chitty Bang Bang can be seen from the back garden of Windmill Cottage.

'The current owners bought it 20 years ago and have lived in it themselves but have now decided to let it out.

'The cottage has been really beautifully finished to a nice standard. It would be ideal for someone wanting a pretty holiday or weekend home, or for a professional couple commuting.

Alex Lee, from Savills, which is marketing the property, said: 'It would be ideal for someone wanting a pretty holiday or weekend home, or for a professional couple commuting'

The St Mary the Virgin Church, which is directly opposite the cottage, also doubled as Dibley's St Barnabas, where Dawn French's character Geraldine Granger was vicar. Pictured is one of the smaller bedrooms

The cosy cottage has just 857 sq ft of space with a kitchen/breakfast room, sitting room and three bedrooms. Pictured is one of the cottage's two bathrooms

'Turville is gorgeous, very idyllic, with the beautiful old church that featured in The Vicar of Dibley and lots of beautiful period character homes.

'Houses there don't often come up to rent or to buy, because it's the kind of place people move to and don't move away for some time so this is a rare opportunity.'

In Chitty Chitty Bang Bang Cobstone Windmill is the home of Dick Van Dyke's character Caractacus Potts and his family.

====== 1112 ========

ICELAND IS SAFEST PLACE TO HOLIDAY, SOUTH AFRICA AND TURKEY THE MOST DANGEROUS

Iceland is the safest place to go on holiday followed by the United Arab Emirates, according to a new report by Which? Travel.

Its study looked at crime rates, as well as the risk of a natural disaster, health issues in the country and the likelihood of a terrorist attack.

And researchers found that the most dangerous places to go on holiday include Turkey and South Africa.

Iceland, pictured, has been named as the safest holiday destination, according to a study by Which? Travel

To compile the list, Which? Travel picked 20 of the most popular holiday destinations around the world.

The researchers then analysed crime statistics from the World Economic Fund, natural disaster risk assessments from the World Risk Report, health risk data from the NHS Fit for Travel site and terrorism risk levels from the Foreign Office.

Iceland ranked top due to violent crime in the country being 'extremely rare', along with having one of the lowest probabilities of a natural disaster.

Which? Travel also noted that there was a low risk of visitors contracting health problems and a low risk of terrorism although 'it cannot be ruled out'.

A table by Which? Travel, which ranked 20 of the most popular holiday destinations in order of safest to least safest

Second place UAE, home to popular destination Dubai, also ranked highly across all categories although the risk of terrorism was classed as being 'likely'.

The third safest country in the ranking is Singapore, although researchers note the country has a moderate risk of zika virus.

Spain comes in fourth, while Australia rounds off the top five with Which? Travel explaining there is a risk of Dengue fever and that terrorism in the country is 'very likely.'

Countries that also make it into the top 10 are Canada (sixth), Japan (seventh), Morocco (eighth), Jordan (ninth) and Barbados (10th).

Bottom ranked South Africa had the lowest score when it came to the safety index based on crime statistics. Pictured is the South African city of Cape Town

At the other end of the table, bottom ranked South Africa had the lowest score when it came to the safety index based on crime statistics.

Which? Travel also pointed out that health risks in the country include diptheria, hepatitus A, malaria and schistosomiasis and that terrorism is 'likely'.

Turkey also fared badly when it came to the safety index with one of the highest risks of crime and a 'very likely' probability of terrorism.

Thailand finished third bottom after having a low safety index score, being 'very likely' as a location for a terrorist attack and a risk of visitors contracting dengue fever, tetanus and malaria in some areas.

====== 1113 ========

HOW TO CRAM A MONTH'S WORTH OF HOLIDAY GEAR INSIDE ONE CARRY-ON BAG

Airlines are cracking down on the size of cabin luggage and making it harder to avoid paying extra to put your suitcase in the hold.

But there are still ways to take everything you need with you without having to make an airline richer.

In fact, according to a new infographic, it's actually possible to take up to a month's worth of belongings with you in one carry-on bag.

Handy: Follow this packing guide and you can avoid paying extra to put your suitcase in the hold, according to Stasher

For starters, the guide states you will need a four-wheeled suitcase no larger than 56cm (22 ins) in length, 45cm wide (18ins) and 25cm (10 ins) deep. Plus a smaller bag such as a purse, backpack or tote bag.

In terms of clothes, you need to be fairly strict with your packing.

You will be able to take four T-shirts, five long-sleeved tops, three pairs of trousers, seven pairs of underwear and seven pairs of socks, a sweatshirt or a hoodie, a protective outer jacket, one pair of shoes and a pair of sunglasses.

The backpack can be used for extra space - but it must be packed in the correct way.

Medium weighted belongings should be packed at the bottom and along the sides, such as a jacket, the T-shirts, socks and underwear.

Heavier items like shoes, trousers and sweater in the middle, and then light things on top including shirts and formal clothes.

Savvy packer: The guide details the exact number of clothing items you will be able to take, plus all the travel essentials

If you've followed these few simple rules, you should still have space left for all the essentials, including your travel documents, currency, toiletries under 100ml and electrical equipment.

And one final top tip, leave books at home and instead invest in a tablet device so you can download ebooks.



The infographic was put together by Stasher, which describes itself as the ‘the Airbnb of luggage’, and the world’s largest luggage storage network.

====== 1114 ========

BRITS CAN NOW JET OFF TO LAPLAND FOR AS LITTLE AS £22.99

Brits can fly to Lapland for a winter getaway this year from as little as £22.99 thanks to budget airline Wizz Air.

The carrier is offering the deal on its new route from London Luton to Tromso in Norwegian Lapland from December 14.

The service will operate every Monday and Friday, with a flight time of three hours and 40 minutes.

Wizz Air has announced it will operate services from London Luton to Tromso, pictured, in Norwegian Lapland for the winter months

The service will run until March 29 and Visit Lapland says it will help open up the Arctic region to British holidaymakers.

Wizz Air has trumpeted a £22.99 ticket price, but MailOnline Travel found a £17.99 one-way fare - although prices do fluctuate.

It should also be pointed out that the route flies to Norwegian Lapland, not Finnish Lapland, which is home to the famous Santa Claus Village.

However, there are still a huge range of activities to get stuck into in Tromso including excursions to see the Northern Lights.

Other activities up for grabs include snowmobiling, dog sledding, whale watching and meeting other polar animals.

The Wizz Air flights will operate every Monday and Friday, with a flight time of three hours and 40 minutes

Visitors can also learn about the local Sami indigenous culture and feed the native reindeer.

Chad Blakley from Visit Lapland said: 'Tromso is a safe bet for many travelling to Lapland with a city full of culture and cuisine and activities set up for everyone from couples, to families and large groups .

'There are literally hundreds of things to choose from and with the new flights from London set to land into Tromso this December, I can’t help but think it’s going to be a popular winter destination.'

====== 1115 ========

LONDON BEATS PARIS, NEW YORK AND TOKYO TO BE NAMED THE BEST CITY IN THE WORLD 2019

London is the best city in the world, according to a new study.

The UK capital came top of a ranking of the globe's 100 best performing cities thanks to its luxury shops, coveted universities and colleges and eclectic mix of restaurants.

The French capital Paris came second, while New York is third and Tokyo is fourth.

London has come top of a ranking of the globe's 100 best performing cities thanks to its luxury shops, coveted universities and colleges and eclectic mix of restaurants

The research was carried out by consultancy company Resonance, which looked at seven different factors to compile its list for 2019.

The factors were house affordability and job opportunities, quality of the natural and built environments, quality of key institutions, attractions and infrastructure, diversity of people, promotion online, economic prosperity and quality of the arts, culture, restaurants and nightlife.

The report said of London: 'London’s magnetism is certainly world renowned, with visitors streaming into the city in record volumes - 19.8 million in 2017, almost a million more than the record set the previous year.

'Perhaps most impressive is its food scene, which overtook Tokyo this year globally according to traveler and resident sentiment. Given the clichéd reputation of British cuisine - historically passable at best - this is an incredible development. As of 2018, the city had 70 Michelin-starred restaurants.'

Second-place Paris was praised for its massive infrastructure upgrades ahead of it hosting the 2024 Olympics.

The report said: 'Paris boasts the best Airport Connectivity in the world, finished sixth in the Convention Center subcategory and ranked 11th in quality of museums. Infrastructure investment has also sped up, and the city is building more hotels than ever - almost two dozen are scheduled to open by late 2019.'

Paris came in second place in the ranking and was praised for its massive infrastructure upgrades ahead of it hosting the 2024 Olympics

New York came third in the ranking. There are a total of three US cities inside the top 10

Researchers highlighted third-place New York's diverse neighbourhoods and praised its cultural virility: 'New York is still a cultural powerhouse - ranked No1 in our Culture subcategory globally. Next year will also see the opening of the new 26,000 square foot Statue of Liberty Museum; Lehman Center for the Performing Arts in the Bronx is growing; and the already awesome Whitney is getting new galleries.

'Even the sense of arrival to the city is getting an upgrade: the TWA Hotel at JFK opens in 2019, offering visitors a glossy, retro-futuristic launchpad into city life. It’s going to be a great year. Again.'

Fourth-place Tokyo was lauded, meanwhile, for its parks and outdoor activities.

Finishing in fifth place is Barcelona, for being an 'intoxicating mix of beach, architecture and creativity'.

In sixth place is Moscow, which is described as 'hungry for global attention' and Chicago is seventh, the second US city in the top ten.

Tokyo's parks and outdoor activities helped it to gain fourth place in the global ranking

Singapore takes eighth place while Dubai is ninth and San Francisco is 10th.

Resonance president and CEO Chris Fair said: 'With the World’s Best Cities ranking, our goal is to provide city leaders—from destination marketing organizations to economic development teams—with new tools and perspectives on the key factors that shape a city’s competitive identity, community well-being, and future prosperity.

'While other rankings consider similar statistics such as airport connectivity or educational attainment in their methodology, no other ranking incorporates data from online channels such as TripAdvisor and Instagram to measure the experiential quality and performance of a city.'

====== 1116 ========

THE FOOD ITEMS THAT HOMESICK BRIT EXPATS ARE HAVING SHIPPED ACROSS THE GLOBE

Baked beans, crumpets and squash are among the top items homesick British expats are getting shipped across the globe.

New data has revealed that Brits abroad are enjoying a taste of home by having a string of traditional foods sent to them, with cheese and onion crisps, squash and Bisto gravy granules also common shelf fillers.

Scampi Fries, Frazzles and tomato soup also emerged on a list of goods those who have left UK shores cannot live without.

According to figures released by online retailer British Corner Shop - which also produced an interactive map to illustrate its findings - Brits who now live in Australia are rushing to cram their cupboards with Heinz baked beans and Aptamil baby milk.

Ex-pats who now enjoy life in the U.S are also opting for Heinz baked beans as well as Warburtons crumpets and Robinsons squash.

And those who now live in Spain are also fans of Warburtons crumpets and Robinsons orange squash, plus McVities ginger nuts.

A spokesperson for British Corner Shop said: 'Moving abroad to sunnier climates or more exotic scenery makes sense for thousands of Brits every year, and many take the plunge and up sticks.

'Though regardless of the exciting new life you find in a new country, it can be hard to let go of those familiar home comfort which may not grace the shelve of your new local supermarket.

Crumpets are among the top foods that British expats living abroad are having shipped around the globe, new figures have shown

THE MOST POPULAR BRITISH EXPAT ORDERS IN THE PAST 12 MONTHS United States 1. Heinz Baked Beans in tomato Sauce – 5,870 2. Warburtons Crumpets 6 pack – 3,454 3. Robinsons Apple and Blackcurrant Squash – 2,720 4. McVities Jaffa Cakes 10 pack – 2,645 5. Robinsons Orange Squash – 2,614 6. Milupa Aptamil Follow On Milk Ready to Drink – 2,448 7. Heinz Cream of Tomato Soup – 1,958 8. Cadburys Flake 4 pack – 1,840 9. Cadburys Crunchie 4 pack – 1,587 10. Bisto Gravy Granules – 1,576 Spain 1. Warburtons Crumpets 6 pack – 1,125 2. McVities Ginger Nuts – 1,114 3. Robinsons Orange Squash – 645 4. Robinsons Apple and Blackcurrant Squash – 530 5. Aptamil Follow On Milk Ready to Drink – 473 6. Aptamil First Milk Ready to Drink – 468 7. Bisto Gravy Granule – 439 8. Paxo Stuffing Mix – 400 9. Rubicon Lychee Juice Drink – 361 10. Robinsons Squash’d Summer Fruits – 305 Australia 1.Heinz Baked Beans – 2,230 2. Milupa Aptamil First Milk Ready to Drink – 535 3. Walkers Cheese & Onion Crisps 6 Pack – 443 4. Smiths Bacon Fries – 399 5. Smiths Scampi Fries – 351 6. Walkers Frazzles 8 pack – 307 7. Nestle Shreddies – 294 8. Mr Porky Prime Cut Scratchings Single Bag – 274 9. Heinz Oxtail Soup – 271 10. Walkers Prawn Cocktail Crisps 6 pack – 270 Source: British Corner Shop

'Weirdly, many of our expats have baby milk on their minds, as well as the odd Brit-centric snacks and treats we seem to have a taste for here, like Frazzles, Jaffa Cakes and a good buttery crumpet.

'It gives an interesting insight into the diet of the typical Brit, who when taken out of their natural habitat still craves Heinz baked beans, Robinsons squash and McVities ginger nuts.'

Meanwhile British Corner Shop also revealed some of the orders it has shipped to more unusual parts of the world.

One expat in the Philippines got in contact to fulfill their craving for Ambrosia, with an order of five milk chocolate custard pots and four strawberry rice pots.

====== 1117 ========

HOTEL LAUNCHES ROOM DEAL THAT COMES WITH UNLIMITED CHAMPAGNE

A luxury London hotel is set to leave its guests fizzing with joy - because it has introduced room deals that include an all-you-can-drink supply of champagne.

The idea has been termed 'Bottomless Bedrooms' by its creators at Home House, in Marylebone, which is offering private suites that come with complimentary Moët & Chandon champagne.

But the hotel has imposed one strict rule - guests must not use the fizz to shower, bathe or spray at each other.

Bottoms up: The complimentary bubbles start flowing at 6pm and end at midnight

Guests will have a dedicated member of staff on hand throughout the evening to top-up flutes and replenish ice buckets.

However, the bubbles will need to be drunk fairly swiftly as the champagne will only flow for free from from 6pm until midnight.

Guests can also order dishes designed by executive chef Sophie Michell available via 24-hour room service.

Guaranteed hangover: The packages are available to both members and non-members

The packages are available to both members and non-members and can be booked on Fridays and Saturdays for the George Hanbury suite, which has views over Portman Square, and the James Wyatt suite.

There are two packages that feature unlimited champagne - and neither are cheap.

One is called the Couples Package and is priced at £800 for members, and £1,200 for non-members.

This offers a private suite and complimentary free-flowing fizz for two.

There's also a Party Package priced at £1,400 per night for members, and £2,100 per night for non-members, which allows two guests to invite up to 10 friends to join them for 'a night of depravity'.

Regarding the Couple's Package, Home House said: 'Naughtiness is de rigueur at Home House, and what says I love you better than champagne? The Couple’s Package offers the ultimate weekend getaway.'

Pop the cork: Pictured is the stunning living room in the George Hanbury suite, which is available for the free champagne package

Home House was built in 1775. It was commissioned by Elizabeth, Countess of Home, who wanted a sophisticated 'Pavilion' designed purely for enjoyment and entertainment.

The interior was designed by the celebrated architect Robert Adam who, according to the Home House website, 'conceived as a series of grand reception rooms'.

These include the Front Parlour and Eating Room on the ground floor and on the first floor the 'Ante-room, the Music Room and the Great Drawing Room'.

From 1989 to 1996 Home House was vacant and included on the World Monuments Watch List of 100 most endangered sites.

It was launched as a private members club in 1998.

====== 1118 ========

RYANAIR CLAIMS NEW BAGGAGE POLICY HAS SLASHED QUEUES AT SECURITY AND IMPROVED PUNCTUALITY BY 11%

Ryanair has claimed that its new baggage policy has so far been a success, claiming that it has slashed security queues at security and improved punctuality by 11 per cent in its first week of operation.

Since November 1, the no-frills airline has no longer allowed passengers to take a small suitcase in the hold for free, forcing them to pay a minimum of £6 for any bag that won't fit under the seat in front.

Despite reports of confusion at airports across Europe when the policy came into force Ryanair claimed that it has been welcomed by both customers and airports across Europe.

Ryanair has claimed that its new baggage policy that was implemented last week, has slashed queues at security and improved punctuality by 11 per cent

It said that the new rules meant passengers were moving through security more quickly because the volume of carry-on bags had fallen.

The airline also said there had been faster boarding times, fewer flight delays and that punctuality had improved. It is now 88 per cent compared to 77 per cent in the week before the policy change.

The new policy stipulates that all passengers can take one small personal bag on board for free, which must be no bigger than 40x20x25cm - a 40 per cent increase in size allowance - and it must fit under the seat in front.

Any bag bigger than this must be paid for one way or another.

Passengers can pay £6 for priority boarding, which means they can take a second bigger bag into the cabin, or pay between £8 and £10 to check-in a bag up to 10kg, or £25 for a bag bigger than that.

Ryanair's Kenny Jacobs said: 'We've received lots of positive feedback from our customers and airports across Europe that our new bag policy has reduced airport security queues and improved the boarding gate experience, with 11 per cent better punctuality, as we eliminate free gate bags and related flight delays.

'Ryanair customers have already saved millions of euro as they switch from our £25 x 20kg checked bag to our new lower cost £8 x 10kg checked bag option.

'Up to 50 per cent of customers continue to bring two free carry-on bags as they choose our priority boarding service.'

However, there are several passengers who it's doubtful would share Ryanair's rosy appraisal of the policy.

Since November 1, the no-frills airline no longer allows passengers to take a small suitcase in the hold for free, forcing them to pay a minimum of £6 for any bag that won't fit under the seat in front

Passengers also took to Twitter to complain about the new policy which came into force last week

When it was introduced last week, many passengers complained that the policy was confusing and had 'ripped them off'.

For example, a children's football team heading to Dublin faced charges of up to £400 they had not budgeted for when they arrived at Stansted Airport.

Mother, Selina McManus from Watford who was taking her son Dylan, 10, to Dublin on tour, said: 'It has cost me £40 and if you look in total it will cost the entire team £200 each way. I just feel like I have been ripped off, it doesn't feel great.'

Rozhin Amini , 30, was heading home to Germany after holidaying in the UK and was also faced with extra charges.

He said: 'We booked back in September and none of this had come in, we've had to pay an extra £10. Luckily me and my friend were able to put two bags in one.

'You just have to expect Ryanair to get you to pay more for everything. In our situation it wasn't very good.'

We booked back in September and none of this had come in, we've had to pay an extra £10. Luckily me and my friend were able to put two bags in one Ryanair passenger Rozhin Amini

While Andrew Rutherford, from Kingston, south west London, who was catching a Ryanair flight to the south of France last week, added: 'You might as well quadruple the price of their flights because you end up paying so much more than they say you will.

'They are not doing themselves any favours. You can pay £9.99 for the flight and then £69 in add-ons.

'I'd rather they just tell you it's going to cost £70 from the start. It is like they are trying to charge us for everything nowadays.'

Meanwhile the airline was slammed earlier this week for refusing to waive its £55 airport check-in fee on Thursday, despite passengers being unable to check-in for free online for a 12-hour period up to 5am on that day.

The carrier confirmed on Monday that its online services including its website and mobile app will be closed from 5pm on Wednesday, November 7, for 12 hours for an upgrade.

The airline encourages all passengers to check in online or on the mobile app, charging a £55 fee for those who forget and have to check-in at the airport.

The fact that it won't waive its fee following the system shutdown has been described by Rory Boland, the Which? Travel editor, as a stance that's 'wholly unfair'.

However, a spokesman for Ryanair told MailOnline Travel: 'Our existing boarding card reissue fee will apply, which is why we're giving customers travelling on Wednesday and Thursday sufficient notice to check-in for their flights before the website closure.'

====== 1119 ========

RYANAIR WILL REFUSE TO WAIVE £55 AIRPORT CHECK IN FEE DESPITE WEBSITE CLOSURE

No-frills airline Ryanair has been slammed for refusing to waive its £55 airport check-in fee on Thursday, despite passengers being unable to do so online for free for a 12-hour period up to 5am on that day.

The carrier confirmed yesterday that its online services including its website and mobile app will be closed from 5pm on Wednesday, November 7, for 12 hours for an upgrade.

The airline encourages all passengers to check in online or on the mobile app, charging a £55 fee for those who forget and have to check-in at the airport.

No-frills airline Ryanair has been slammed for refusing to waive its £55 airport check-in fee despite the fact that it will close its website and mobile app for 12 hours later this week, where checking in is carried out for free

The fact that it won't waive its fee following the system shutdown has been described by Rory Boland, the Which? Travel editor, as a stance that's 'wholly unfair'.

He said: 'Hot on the heels of a summer of cancellations and confusing changes in baggage policy- this latest bit of bad news won't do much for the airline's bad reputation.

'It's wholly unfair that Ryanair refuses to waive its airport check-in fee for the period its free check in via the website and app is unavailable. Some passengers will almost certainly get unexpectedly stung with this £55 charge at the airport.'

Criticism over the airline's attitude was also voiced by Hannah Maundrell, Editor in Chief of money.co.uk.

She said: 'There are obviously occasions when websites need to have some downtime to carry out essential maintenance, and it's good that Ryanair have given customers prior notice.

'What isn't acceptable is the fact passengers will face a £55 fee if they don't check in online early and try to do so at the airport.

'Considering the downtime is being forced upon customers, I would have expected the fee to have been waived for passengers, or at the very least reduced. £55 is extortionate – travellers who are in the middle of trips and don't have access to their emails may miss Ryanair's communication.'

And Ryanair customers took to Twitter to vent their anger at the airline not waiving its airport check-in fee.

Christian Hankins said: 'Ryanair to shut online operations for upgrade (12 hours on Wednesday/Thursday) > But don't worry, if you need to get your boarding pass during this time, Ryanair will still kindly charge you £55 to print it at the airport.'

Ryanair customers took to Twitter to vent their anger at the airline not waiving its airport check in fee after its website shutdown

Anthony J Myers added: 'Ryanair will charge people for boarding passes even through it is shutting down its website and app for an upgrade.'

Tony Swanson wrote: 'So, get this right. @Ryanair will be doing an upgrade to its systems which means that customers will not be able to check-in online as required, however they will still be charging customers £55 if they don't check in prior to the T&C's and are forced to do so at the airport wow.'

And Katie Conlon tweeted: 'Ryanair not allowing customers to check in online for 12 hours because of system updates is fair enough. But to then charge them €55 to check in at airport when the customers have no choice in the matter?'

However, a spokesman for Ryanair told MailOnline Travel: 'Our existing boarding card reissue fee will apply, which is why we're giving customers travelling on Wednesday and Thursday sufficient notice to check-in for their flights before the website closure.'

Announcing the temporary shut down of the website and mobile app yesterday, Ryanair's Robin Kiely said: 'As part of our continued digital development, a web closure and system upgrade will take place for 12 hours, from 17:00hrs (UK time) on Wednesday November 7, until 05:00hrs (UK time) on Thursday November 8, during which time our online check-in service will not be available.

Ryanair say they are giving customers sufficient notice to check in for their flights before the web closure

'Flight bookings and changes will also be unavailable during this period. Customers travelling on Wednesday or Thursday should check-in for their flight on Tuesday 6th November.

'We sincerely apologise for any inconvenience caused by this upgrade, which will further improve Ryanair.com, Europe's largest travel website.'

News of the web closure follows chaos at the airline last week when it introduced its new luggage policy.

Ryanair no longer allows passengers to take a small suitcase in the hold for free, forcing them to pay a minimum of £6 for any bag that won't fit under the seat in front.

But following widespread confusion at airports across Europe, the carrier waived some of the controversial new baggage fees.

A spokesman for the airline said: 'While our new bag policy has come in to effect, we have briefed our gate agents to take a reasonable approach while customers get used to the new rules.'

====== 1120 ========

CABIN CREW REVEAL THE METHODS ECONOMY PASSENGERS USE TO TRY TO SNEAK INTO BUSINESS CLASS UNNOTICED

The difference between economy and business class on planes can be vast.

And for some the temptation to try and sneak into the posh cabin without having to stump up the huge fare is just too much.

MailOnline Travel spoke to several flight attendants about passengers trying to snag unauthorised upgrades and it seems to be a common occurrence, with the methods deployed including hiding under a blanket and hoping for the best and claiming an upgrade was ‘doctor’s orders’.

MailOnline Travel spoke to several flight attendants about passengers trying to snag unauthorised upgrades and it seems to be a common occurrence, with the methods deployed including hiding under a blanket and hoping for the best and claiming an upgrade was ‘doctor’s orders’

Are there any methods that have duped the crew? The consensus among cabin crew seems to be that there is no foolproof tactic, but there are some out there claiming they get away with it constantly.

The sitting-in-business-class-under-a-blanket tactic is one of the most widely deployed by daring economy passengers. But as one stewardess said: ‘It’s not an invisibility cloak.’ When she caught someone doing this she 'asked him for his boarding pass and he asked me why he couldn’t stay there if nobody is sitting there...'

Another cabin crew member recalled an economy passenger sitting in business class and when challenged said he was ‘lost’.

Producing a doctor’s note that says flying business is a medical requirement has also been tried, according to another flight attendant. Her method for dealing with this is to charge for the full amount and tell the passenger to reclaim it through health insurance.

One steward said a passenger popped his head through the economy/business curtain and asked an attendant in business class for a glass of wine in the hope of quaffing something extra tasty.

It didn’t work.

Jay Robert, a cabin manager at an international airline and founder of A Fly Guy's Cabin Crew Lounge, told MailOnline Travel that some passengers think trying to sneak into business class is a fun game.

Jay Robert, a cabin manager at an international airline told MailOnline Travel that some passengers think trying to sneak into business class is a fun game. But he warned that the consequences can be serious

But he warned that cabin crew do not see it that way – and that the consequences can be serious.

He said: ‘A passenger might think it's a fun game trying to sneak into a higher class of service, but as crew, we are not amused. Those seats are the products we sell, and when you try to take something you didn't pay for, that's stealing.

‘The most common punishment for upgrade theft is embarrassment. While making you take the walk of shame back to the cabin you paid to sit in, crew often talk very loudly so your fellow passengers know the reason you are being escorted back to your seat. We will also tell all the crew on the plane about your antics and put you on our "watch list". You will probably notice the crew’s attitude towards you will change once you have been singled out from the rest as the annoying person who tried to sneak past the curtains.

‘If you cross the wrong crew member you could be facing security and a gate agent ready to accept payment for the difference in fare you tried to dodge paying once you reach your destination.’

He added: ‘Crew in business or first always know how many passengers they have and check their seat list many times during the services, so your addition to the workload is not likely to go unnoticed.’

Indeed, one steward commenting on Jay’s site said: ‘Once someone managed for the ground staff to tell him which [business class] seat was free and just went and sat there without paying the upgrade fee. Luckily I always check the seat map and noticed 1G was supposed to be empty. Went to double check with ground staff before challenging him but even then he kept claiming it was his seat and didn't want to show his boarding pass.

‘At the end he admitted what happened and offered me $60 cash to let him sit there... like seriously? Am I going to risk my job for SIXTY dollars?’

The 'I'm lost' tactic is sometimes deployed by economy passengers trying to sneak into business class

Sneaking into business class, then, should be seen as a foolish lost cause. After all, if you try it you could end up being not only humiliated, but in trouble with the law. As Mr Robert said, it's technically stealing.

Even so, there are some brazen passengers who just don't seem to care and claim to have been upgrading themselves for years in a Russian roulette game of chance - simply by hoping the cabin crew aren't on the ball.

For example, a commenter called ‘Penguin’, contributing to a discussion on thepointsguy.com, said: ‘In all honesty I have been doing this for years.

‘My strategy is to ask at check in if there are upgrades available. Then ask again at the gate. If they say yes you know there are a few empty seats. I also download the app and know which seats are free based on the seating chart. Board with the last group, flash your ticket and sit.

‘I've been caught once. It was after take off on a flight from SF to Sydney, turns out I took the pilot's seat (on long haul there are multiple pilots to prevent fatigue and they take shifts). The flight attendant asked to see my ticket and I admitted what I did. She just asked me to move. The worst part was someone had taken my seat in coach and I got stuck in a middle seat for the majority of the 14-hour flight.’

====== 1121 ========

HOW TRAVELLING HOME BY CAR INSTEAD OF THE TRAIN THIS CHRISTMAS COULD SAVE FAMILIES MORE THAN £300

Travelling by car instead of train this Christmas could save families enough to buy a new PlayStation 4, it's been claimed.

Families could save more than £300 by driving to visit relatives for the holidays instead of getting the train, research found.

The average cost of a family of two adults and two children travelling by train between cities in the UK was £221.75 - compared to just £55.87 for the average drive.

Travelling by car instead of train this Christmas could save families enough to buy a new PlayStation 4, it's been claimed

This map shows the cost comparison for car and train journeys from London

Family journeys between London and 28 cities around the UK - including Manchester, Birmingham, Newcastle, York, Edinburgh, Leicester, Cambridge, Bristol, Cardiff, Plymouth and Southampton - were an average of 75 per cent cheaper by car.

The biggest saving to be made was on the journey between London and Newcastle, where it would cost a family of four £412.20 to travel by train - a huge £315.84 dearer than going by car, which would cost £96.36.

Families travelling to Leeds or Leicester could also save more than 80 per cent by driving instead of getting the train, with a journey to Leeds nearly £264 cheaper and one to Leicester more than £152 cheaper.

The smallest savings were on shorter journeys, with trips to Cambridge and Canterbury, in Kent, only around £36 cheaper by car than by train.

But short journeys by train were not always good value. A family travelling between London and nearby Reading, in Berkshire, this Christmas could expect to pay £84.90 by train - a massive 83 per cent more expensive than the £14.16 cost of driving.

Car rental comparison site easyCar.com carried out the research using data from train booking site thetrainline.com and the RAC's Journey Planner.

Prices for train travel were based on booking off-peak tickets in October for trains leaving on Friday, December 21, and returning on Thursday, December 27.

Family journeys between London and 28 cities around the UK - including Manchester, Birmingham, Newcastle, York, Edinburgh, Leicester, Cambridge, Bristol, Cardiff, Plymouth and Southampton - were an average of 75 per cent cheaper by car

And prices for driving were based on a fuel-efficient family car, like a Toyota Corolla, at the current average petrol price of 131p per litre.

The figures did not take into account time spent in Christmas traffic, the cost of service station breaks or the need for overnight stays on long car journeys with children.

Unlike the car costs quoted in this analysis, our fares don’t come with hidden extras like insurance or the cost of actually buying a vehicle Rail Delivery Group

They also excluded the cost of wear and tear on the car or the costs of hiring a car.

EasyCar said families could use the savings from driving to buy 'the ultimate gift' for their children and would not have to worry about carrying bags and presents, or train delays.

CEO Richard Laughton said: 'Families travelling home for Christmas can be savvy about their journeys and budget better for the festive period by taking the car. This will leave them with a bit more holiday cash to spend during the Christmas period.'

However, the Rail Delivery Group, which represents the rail industry, countered that there are great rail deals to be had.

A spokesperson said: 'Unlike the car costs quoted in this analysis, our fares don’t come with hidden extras like insurance or the cost of actually buying a vehicle. There are some great savings for people who want to take advantage of the speed and ease of rail travel and we encourage customers to check online and book early for the best deals.'

====== 1122 ========

LATEST ADELAIDE NEWS, PICTURES AND VIDEOS

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1123 ========

AFGHANISTAN NEWS, INFORMATION AND OIL AND CONFLICT UPDATES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1124 ========

ALCOHOL NEWS ON WITHDRAWAL, ALCOHOLICS AND BINGE DRINKING

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1125 ========

AMAL CLOONEY NEWS UPDATES ON HUSBAND GEORGE AND TWINS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1126 ========

ANGELA MERKEL NEWS AND GERMAN CHANCELLOR UPDATES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1127 ========

ANONYMOUS NEWS, LEAKS AND VIDEOS FROM THE HACKER GROUP

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1128 ========

ARGOS NEWS ON SALES AND DISCOUNTS AND TRADING UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1129 ========

ASDA NEWS ON GEORGE CLOTHING, DIRECT AND CHRISTMAS OFFERS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1130 ========

AUTUMN STATEMENT NEWS INCLUDING PHILIP HAMMOND UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1131 ========

BRITISH AIRWAYS NEWS ON FLIGHTS AND BA STRIKE UPDATES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1132 ========

BBC UK AND WORLD NEWS HEADLINES, PICTURES AND UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1133 ========

BERLIN BREAKING NEWS AND UPDATES FROM GERMANY'S CAPITAL CITY

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1134 ========

BERNIE SANDERS NEWS, DEBATES AND TWITTER UPDATES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1135 ========

BILL COSBY GUILTY VERDICT NEWS FROM SEXUAL ASSAULT TRIAL

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1136 ========

BIRMINGHAM NEWS UPDATES ON THE CITY'S WEATHER AND AIRPORT

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1137 ========

BLACK FRIDAY 2018 DEALS PLUS NEWS ON BEST SALES AND BARGAINS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1138 ========

BORIS JOHNSON NEWS ON FOREIGN SECRETARY AND BREXIT UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1139 ========

BRAZIL NEWS ON RIO DE JANEIRO, CARNIVAL AND SAO PAULO

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1140 ========

BREAKING NEWS FROM THE UK AND AROUND THE WORLD

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1141 ========

BREXIT NEWS, TALKS AND LEAVING THE EU NEGOTIATIONS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1142 ========

BREXIT POLL RESULTS AND LATEST NEWS ON EU REFERENDUM 2016

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1143 ========

BRIGITTE MACRON NEWS PLUS PHOTOS AND STYLE UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1144 ========

BRISBANE NEWS, UPDATES AND WEATHER FROM THE QUEENSLAND CAPITAL

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1145 ========

BRUSSELS NEWS FROM THE BELGIAN CAPITAL AND EU HEADQUARTERS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1146 ========

BRUSSELS ATTACKS NEWS ON AIRPORT AND METRO SUICIDE BOMBINGS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1147 ========

UK BUDGET NEWS, PLANS, SUMMARY AND UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1148 ========

CALIFORNIA NEWS ON WEATHER, DROUGHT PLUS LOS ANGELES UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1149 ========

CANADA NEWS, POLITICS AND ECONOMY UPDATES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1150 ========

CANCER NEWS, SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT UPDATES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1151 ========

CHILDREN IN NEED 2018 NEWS ON PUDSEY BEAR AND DONATIONS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1152 ========

CHINA NEWS PLUS UPDATES ON SHANGHAI, HONG KONG AND BEIJING

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1153 ========

CHRISTMAS 2017 NEWS ON GIFT IDEAS, RECIPES AND TRADITIONS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1154 ========

CLIMATE CHANGE AND GLOBAL WARMING NEWS AND FACTS

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1155 ========

CNN NEWS AND BREAKING STORIES PLUS UPDATES ON ANCHORS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1156 ========

CONSERVATIVES NEWS, MANIFESTO, POLICIES AND ELECTION UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1157 ========

DAVID CAMERON NEWS, TWITTER UPDATES AND SPEECHES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1158 ========

DEMOCRATS 2018 NEWS PLUS UPDATES ON MIDTERM ELECTIONS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1159 ========

DEMOCRATIC PRIMARY 2018 POLLS, RESULTS AND SENATE NEWS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1160 ========

DEPRESSION NEWS ON SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT & MEDICATION

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1161 ========

PRINCESS DIANA NEWS, PICTURES AND VIDEO UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1162 ========

TRUMP NEWS, TWITTER UPDATES AND LATEST HEADLINES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1163 ========

NEWS ON DUP POLICIES, MANIFESTO AND BREXIT STANCE

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1164 ========

EBOLA VIRUS NEWS, PICTURES AND VICTIM UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1165 ========

EGYPT NEWS UPDATES ON TERRORIST ATTACKS AND TRAVEL AND CAIRO

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1166 ========

EL CHAPO NEWS AND UPDATES ON THE SINALOA CARTEL KINGPIN

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1167 ========

DAILY MAIL ONLINE

Martyn Evans was told he would be fined for disembarking at Darlington, near his home, rather than waiting until Durham, where he works at the university’s philosophy department. The state-run East Coast train company said ticketing regulations meant he could get off only at the stop he had paid for – and nowhere else. But transport campaigners warned the restriction risked driving passengers off trains and back into their cars. ...read

====== 1168 ========

FRENCH PRESIDENT MACRON NEWS AND EN MARCHE'S POLICIES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1169 ========

EU REFERENDUM RESULTS AND BREXIT POLLS AS UK VOTES TO LEAVE

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1170 ========

EU NEWS ON MICHEL BARNIER, BREXIT & EUROPEAN UNION MEMBERS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1171 ========

FIDEL CASTRO NEWS AS CUBA'S FORMER PRESIDENT DIES AGED 90

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1172 ========

FIJI NEWS, TRAVEL AND TOURISM UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1173 ========

FLORIDA NEWS AND UPDATES ON HURRICANES, SHOOTINGS AND MORE

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1174 ========

UK FOREIGN AID NEWS, BUDGET UPDATES AND BREAKDOWN

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1175 ========

FRANCE BREAKING NEWS WITH UPDATES ON LATEST ISIS ATTACKS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1176 ========

UK GENERAL ELECTION 2017 NEWS ON THE RESULTS AND VOTE

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1177 ========

GEORGE OSBORNE NEWS ON WIFE AND TWITTER UPDATES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1178 ========

GERMANY NEWS AND UPDATES ON ISIS ATTACKS AND THE COALITION

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1179 ========

GLASGOW NEWS, PICTURES AND VIDEOS FROM MAILONLINE

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1180 ========

GOLD COAST NEWS AND UPDATES ON THE QUEENSLAND CITY

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1181 ========

GREECE NEWS ON ATHENS, GREEK ISLANDS AND IMMIGRATION

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1182 ========

LATEST HALIFAX NEWS PLUS ONLINE AND LOCAL BANKING UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1183 ========

HALLOWEEN 2018 NEWS ON COSTUMES, DECORATIONS AND MASKS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1184 ========

LATEST HILLARY CLINTON NEWS, TWITTER AND EMAIL PROBE UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1185 ========

HIV & AIDS NEWS UPDATES ON CURES, SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1186 ========

HSBC - LATEST NEWS ON THE BRITISH BANK'S LOCAL AND GLOBAL OPERATIONS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1187 ========

INDONESIA NEWS FROM JAKARTA, BALI AND THE EARTHQUAKE

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1188 ========

INTERNATIONAL WOMEN'S DAY 2018 NEWS, EVENTS AND UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1189 ========

LATEST IRAN NEWS ON THE NUCLEAR DEAL AND MORE

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1190 ========

IRAQ NEWS WITH HAWIJA, MOSUL AND IRAQI KURDISTAN UPDATES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1191 ========

ISIS NEWS PLUS VIDEOS, PICTURES AND UPDATES ON ISLAMIC STATE

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1192 ========

LATEST ISRAEL NEWS UPDATES, VIDEOS AND PICTURES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1193 ========

ITALY NEWS WITH UPDATES ON ROME, MILAN AND PM PAOLO GENTILONI

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1194 ========

IVANKA TRUMP NEWS ON DONALD TRUMP'S DAUGHTER

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1195 ========

JAPAN NEWS UPDATES ON TOKYO AND JAPANESE PM SHINZO ABE

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1196 ========

JEB BUSH NEWS, TWITTER UPDATES AND NET WORTH

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1197 ========

JEREMY CORBYN NEWS AND TWITTER UPDATES FROM LABOUR LEADER

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1198 ========

JEREMY MEEKS NEWS AND UPDATES ON THE HOT FELON MODEL

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1199 ========

JOSH DUGGAR NEWS, INSTAGRAM PICTURES AND VIDEOS

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1200 ========

JUSTIN TRUDEAU NEWS ON THE PRIME MINISTER OF CANADA

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1201 ========

KATE MIDDLETON NEWS ON ROYAL BABY LOUIS AND DUCHESS OF CAMBRIDGE'S STYLE

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1202 ========

KIM JONG-UN NEWS, PICTURES, QUOTES AND INTERVIEWS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1203 ========

LABOUR NEWS ON MANIFESTO, CORBYN & GENERAL ELECTION UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1204 ========

LAS VEGAS NEWS ON STEPHEN PADDOCK PLUS SHOWS AND TOURISM

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1205 ========

LEEDS NEWS, PICTURES AND VIDEO UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1206 ========

LIBERAL DEMOCRATS NEWS, POLICIES & VINCE CABLE UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1207 ========

LONDON NEWS, WEATHER AND TUBE UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1208 ========

LONDON MAYOR ELECTION 2016 POLLS AND NEWS ON CANDIDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1209 ========

LONDON TERROR ATTACK NEWS, UPDATES ON ISIS AND VICTIMS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1210 ========

MALAYSIA NEWS AND WEATHER FROM KUALA LUMPUR AND BORNEO

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1211 ========

MALCOLM TURNBULL NEWS ON THE FORMER AUSTRALIA PRIME MINISTER

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1212 ========

LATEST MANCHESTER NEWS AND UPDATES ON ATTACKS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1213 ========

MARCO RUBIO NEWS, SENATE AND TWITTER UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1214 ========

MARTIN LUTHER KING NEWS AND MLK DAY UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1215 ========

FIRST LADY MELANIA TRUMP NEWS AND PHOTO UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1216 ========

MELBOURNE NEWS, WEATHER AND UPDATES ON MELBOURNE AFL TEAMS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1217 ========

MET OFFICE UK NEWS AND WEATHER FORECAST

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1218 ========

MEXICO NEWS, CURRENT EVENTS, FACTS AND TRAVEL UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1219 ========

MICHELLE OBAMA NEWS AND UPDATES ON BARACK AND SPEECHES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1220 ========

MIGRANT AND REFUGEE CRISIS NEWS FROM SYRIA AND EUROPE

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1221 ========

MIKE PENCE NEWS AND UPDATES ON THE VICE PRESIDENT OF THE US

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1222 ========

DAILY MAIL ONLINE

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1223 ========

NATIONAL LOTTERY AND EUROMILLIONS NEWS, RESULTS AND WINNERS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1224 ========

NATO NEWS PLUS UPDATES ON MEMBERS AND RELATIONS WITH RUSSIA

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1225 ========

LATEST NEW YORK NEWS, VIDEOS, WEATHER AND TRAVEL UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1226 ========

NEW ZEALAND NEWS PLUS JACINDA ARDERN, AUCKLAND & WELLINGTON UPDATES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1227 ========

LATEST NHS UK NEWS ON JOBS, PAY, DOCTORS AND MARCHES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1228 ========

NICOLA STURGEON NEWS PLUS SNP, BREXIT AND INDYREF2 UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1229 ========

NIGEL FARAGE NEWS ON LBC RADIO SHOW, BREXIT AND TWITTER

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1230 ========

NIGERIA NEWS, FOOTBALL AND BOKO HARAM UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1231 ========

NORTH KOREA NEWS, PICTURES AND UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1232 ========

NORTHERN IRELAND NEWS ON BELFAST, SINN FÉIN AND BREXIT DEAL

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1233 ========

OBAMA NEWS ON HIS SPEECHES, TWITTER & NETFLIX DOCUMENTARY

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1234 ========

OJ SIMPSON PAROLE NEWS AND UPDATES ON CHILDREN

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1235 ========

ORLANDO SHOOTING NEWS AS MAN SHOOTS PEOPLE DEAD AT GAY CLUB

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1236 ========

LATEST OSCAR PISTORIUS NEWS, PICTURES AND VIDEOS

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1237 ========

PAKISTAN NEWS, INFORMATION AND TALIBAN UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1238 ========

PALESTINE NEWS ON THE ISRAEL AND GAZA STRIP CONFLICT

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1239 ========

PARIS NEWS, PICTURES AND VIDEOS FROM FRANCE'S CAPITAL

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1240 ========

PARIS ATTACKS 2015 NEWS ON THE TIMELINE, ISIS TERRORISTS AND VICTIMS

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1241 ========

LATEST PAULINE HANSON NEWS, ONE NATION AND SENATE UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1242 ========

PERTH NEWS ON WEATHER, PERTH SCORCHERS AND PERTH GLORY FC

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1243 ========

PHILIP HAMMOND NEWS AND UPDATES ON BREXIT AND THE BUDGET

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1244 ========

PIPPA MIDDLETON WEDDING NEWS, DRESS STYLE, PHOTOS & VIDEOS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1245 ========

POPE FRANCIS NEWS AND UPDATES ON VATICAN CITY

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1246 ========

PRINCE CHARLES NEWS, PICTURES AND WIFE CAMILLA UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1247 ========

PRINCE GEORGE NEWS, PICTURES AND SCHOOL UPDATES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1248 ========

PRINCE HARRY NEWS AND UPDATES ON MEGHAN AND THE ROYAL BABY

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1249 ========

ROYAL BABY NEWS AND UPDATES ON PRINCE LOUIS ARTHUR CHARLES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1250 ========

PRINCE WILLIAM AND KATE NEWS PLUS ROYAL BABY LOUIS UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1251 ========

PRINCESS CHARLOTTE OF CAMBRIDGE NEWS AND PICTURES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1252 ========

QANTAS NEWS ON FLIGHTS, FREQUENT FLYER, DELAYS AND DIVERSIONS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1253 ========

RAND PAUL NEWS, HEALTHCARE AND TWITTER UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1254 ========

REPUBLIC OF IRELAND NEWS ON DUBLIN AND PM LEO VARADKAR

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1255 ========

REPUBLICAN PRIMARY 2018 POLLS, RESULTS AND SENATE NEWS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1256 ========

REPUBLICANS NEWS PLUS GOP HEALTHCARE AND TAX PLAN UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1257 ========

ROYAL MAIL NEWS ON STRIKE DATES AND SHARE PRICES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1258 ========

LATEST NEWS ON THE ROYALS AND THE BRITISH MONARCHY

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1259 ========

RUSSIA NEWS PLUS GRU, HACKING AND TRUMP PROBE UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1260 ========

SADIQ KHAN NEWS ON LONDON MAYOR'S POLICIES AND BREXIT

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1261 ========

LATEST SAUDI ARABIA NEWS, PICTURES AND VIDEOS

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1262 ========

SCOTLAND NEWS ON GOVERNMENT, ECONOMY AND GENERAL ELECTION

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1263 ========

SCOTT MORRISON NEWS ON THE AUSTRALIAN PRIME MINISTER

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1264 ========

ALEXANDER BLACKMAN PRISON RELEASE NEWS FOLLOWING APPEAL

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1265 ========

SGT ALEXANDER BLACKMAN NEWS ON THE PETITION AND APPEAL TO FREE HIM

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1266 ========

SINGAPORE NEWS, WEATHER FORECASTS AND TOURIST ATTRACTIONS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1267 ========

SNP NEWS PLUS MANIFESTO 2017 AND LATEST POLICIES UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1268 ========

SOUTH AFRICA NEWS ON RAMAPHOSA PLUS CAPE TOWN, JOHANNESBURG UPDATES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1269 ========

SOUTH KOREA NEWS ON SEOUL, ECONOMY & CHINA RELATIONSHIP

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1270 ========

SPAIN NEWS UPDATES ON BARCELONA, MADRID & CATALAN LEADERS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1271 ========

SUPER TUESDAY 2016 NEWS, POLLS, PREDICTIONS AND RESULTS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1272 ========

SWEDEN NEWS ON STOCKHOLM, IMMIGRATION & ECONOMY UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1273 ========

SYDNEY NEWS, WEATHER ATTRACTIONS AND VIVID FESTIVAL UPDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1274 ========

SYRIA NEWS ON BOMBINGS, RAQQA, ALEPPO AND THE SYRIAN WAR

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1275 ========

TED CRUZ NEWS ON THE US SENATOR PLUS TWITTER UPDATES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1276 ========

TESCO NEWS ON UK STORES, DIRECT AND MOBILE PLUS SHARE PRICES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1277 ========

TEXAS NEWS ON SHOOTINGS AND UPDATES ON AUSTIN AND HOUSTON

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1278 ========

TFL NEWS ON THE LONDON TUBE STRIKE, OYSTER FARES AND BUSES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1279 ========

THAILAND NEWS AND UPDATES ON FLOODING AND BANGKOK

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1280 ========

THE QUEEN NEWS ON HER SAPPHIRE JUBILEE AND ROYAL FAMILY

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1281 ========

THERESA MAY NEWS, TWITTER, HUSBAND, PLANS & POLICIES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1282 ========

TONY ABBOTT NEWS ON THE FORMER PRIME MINISTER OF AUSTRALIA

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1283 ========

TONY BLAIR NEWS ON CHILCOT REPORT, IRAQ WAR, BREXIT AND EU

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1284 ========

TOP GEAR NEWS, SERIES 25 EPISODES, SPECIALS AND PRESENTERS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1285 ========

LATEST TUNISIA NEWS, PICTURES AND VIDEOS

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1286 ========

TURKEY NEWS, PICTURES AND VIDEOS PLUS ERDOGAN UPDATES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1287 ========

UK WEATHER NEWS, FORECASTS AND WEATHER WARNINGS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1288 ========

UKIP NEWS, POLICIES PLUS MORE ON ACTING LEADER GERARD BATTEN

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1289 ========

UKRAINE NEWS AND UPDATES ON KIEV, ODESSA AND RUSSIAN CONFLICT

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1290 ========

UN NEWS AND UPDATES ON THE UN SECURITY COUNCIL

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1291 ========

US ELECTION 2016 NEWS, RESULTS AND HACKING PROBE UPDATES

Bella Hadid and The Weeknd 'close to getting engaged' only SEVEN months after they reunited... and only one year after his split from Selena Gomez

====== 1292 ========

US ELECTION 2016 POLLS AND NEWS ON THE PRESIDENTIAL RACE

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1293 ========

MIDTERM ELECTIONS RESULTS, NEWS, POLLS AND CANDIDATES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1294 ========

VIVID SYDNEY 2018 FESTIVAL NEWS AND PHOTOS OF OPERA HOUSE

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1295 ========

VLADIMIR PUTIN NEWS ON RUSSIA, NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND TRUMP

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1296 ========

WALES NEWS ON WELSH CAPITAL CARDIFF, SWANSEA AND CARWYN JONES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1297 ========

WALMART NEWS AND UPDATES ON HOURS, STORES AND ONLINE DEALS

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1298 ========

WEIGHT LOSS NEWS AND PHOTOS OF DIETS, TIPS AND WORKOUTS

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

====== 1299 ========

ZIKA VIRUS NEWS, SYMPTOMS AND THE EFFECTS ON BABIES

Monica Lewinsky reveals for the first time that Bill Clinton urged her to lie under oath and then called her in for one last tryst before ditching her - which led her to consider suicide

====== 1300 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: HARRY REDKNAPP ADMITS WIFE SANDRA WOULD MISTAKE HIS CRIES OF PAIN FOR PLEASURE

Harry Redknapp has made a seriously X-rated confession about his beloved wife Sandra and their bedroom antics.

The football manager, 71, admitted he would often get cramp during romps with his partner of 54 years, in Friday's episode of I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!

He then candidly revealed that Sandra would mistake his cries of pain for pleasure and assume 'B****y hell, Harry's getting excited!'

Oh dear: Harry Redknapp has made a seriously X-rated confession about his beloved wife Sandra and their bedroom antics

Redknapp made the confession when he woke up Noel Edmonds in the morning with cramp in his leg, complaining: 'I can't tell you how painful it is.'

Noel joked: 'I'll have to take you off at half time,' before propping the 71-year-old's leg up and massaging it.

Harry then revealed he normally gets his beloved wife Sandra to massage out the cramp - and joked that she sometimes didn't understand he was in pain.

'I've had it at home before and normally shout for Sandra. I have had it before during a difficult time,' he explained.

TMI! The football manager, 71, admitted he would often get cramp during romps with his partner of 54 years, in Friday's episode of I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here

Misunderstanding: He then candidly revealed that Sandra would mistake his cries of pain for pleasure and assume 'B****y hell, Harry's getting excited!'

'I think Sandra thought I was really enjoying myself at that time but it was cramp, I was screaming, I bet she thought "b****y hell, Harry's getting excited' but it was the cramp I had.'

Talking in the Bush Telegraph, Emperor Noel said: 'I woke up to the cries of Harry Redknapp in agony with cramp.'

He added: 'It was a very difficult moment for me - I don't know Harry that well. We've only been sleeping together for 24 hours. He did make a bit of a fuss about it.'

Honest: He said: 'I've had it [cramps] at home before and normally shout for Sandra. I have had it before during a difficult time'

Saucy: He added: 'I think Sandra thought I was really enjoying myself at that time but it was cramp, I was screaming, I bet she thought "bloody hell, Harry's getting excited' but it was the cramp I had'

After Noel and Harry emerged from their shack, Harry joked that the TV star had been massaging him inappropriately to the other campmates.

'I woke up from cramp and Noel was rubbing my leg under my clothes! I said "the cramp is in my calf, not in my groin!" ' he quipped as the camp laughed and Noel protested: 'Shut it!'

Harry's saucy anecdote comes after he left his pals in tears when he talked about his enduring love for his 71-year-old partner on I'm A Celebrity.

In pain: Redknapp made the confession when he woke up Noel Edmonds in the morning with cramp in his leg, complaining: 'I can't tell you how painful it is'

Helping out: Noel joked: 'I'll have to take you off at half time,' before propping the 71-year-old's leg up and massaging it

He melted viewers' hearts as he revealed he calls her 10 times a day and likened his relationship to 'winning the lottery'.

During a chat with Fleur East and Sair Khan, Harry, who has two sons with Sandra, said: 'Even when I'm out I ring her 10 times a day.

'She's my life. I'm a bit scared, getting a bit older. I love her too much, if anything happened it would just kill me.

'We just get on so well, I only want to be with her. I can never wait to see her. Jamie [his son] says "you've won the lottery".'

====== 1301 ========

FAYE TOZER ADMITS STRICTLY HAS PUT A STRAIN ON HER NINE-YEAR MARRIAGE

Strictly’s Faye Tozer has admitted the show has put a strain on her nine-year marriage - after those cosy lunch snaps with dance partner Giovanni Pernice.

The Steps singer, 43, has confessed to The Sun that she has found it ‘tricky’ being away from her second husband Michael Smith when training with the 28-year-old professional.

Last week the pair were caught enjoying a boozy one-on-one lunch between rehearsals, with the handsome dancer appearing to feed the pop sensation.

'Tricky': Strictly’s Faye Tozer has admitted the show has put a strain on her nine-year marriage - after those cosy lunch snaps with dance partner Giovanni Pernice

Cosy: Last week the pair were caught enjoying a boozy one-on-one lunch between rehearsals, with the handsome dancer appearing to feed the pop sensation

Yet Faye has insisted Giovanni was simply wiping some food from her cheek, adding: ‘I can feed myself thank you very much. But I had a bit of salad on my face so he took it off and that was it.’

Speaking about her home life, the star admitted that it’s ‘tough being away from home’ but that communication is key.

She went on: ‘It’s always tricky being away from home. You just have to keep your head above water.

Tough times? The Steps singer, 43, has confessed that she has found it ‘tricky’ being away from her second husband Michael Smith when training with the 28-year-old professional

‘We’ve just got to keep really tight as a family unit and make sure we communicate — I think that’s the only way. But it is tough being away from home because we miss each other.’

Faye, who has a nine-year-old son with Michael, said she is steering clear of the Strictly ‘curse’ after professional dancer Katya Jones, who is married to fellow dancer Neil, was caught sharing a smooch with celebrity partner Seann Walsh.

Dancer Dianne Buswell is said to be dating her YouTube partner Joe Sugg after splitting from Emmerdale actor Anthony Quinlan.

Nothing happening: Yet Faye has insisted Giovanni was simply wiping some food from her cheek

And Faye added that if it was going to happen, it would happen anywhere, while she explained how that lunch was a birthday celebration and a break from rehearsals - which her husband knew about.

And the dancing duo were quick to laugh off romance rumours last week, in a tongue-in-cheek video shared on Instagram.

In a cheeky nod to the image that saw him brushing food from her face, Giovanni posted a clip of him carefully picking a piece of lettuce from the corner of the Steps singer's mouth.

Cheeky: Giovanni picked a piece of lettuce from Faye's mouth in a tongue-in-cheek video poking fun at THAT boozy lunch

The Tragedy hitmaker's husband Mick was also keen to quash any rumours there was anything more than friendship between them, as he posted a selfie with rice grains stuck to the corner of his mouth to poke fun at the images taken of the pair.

He wrote: 'Where’s @pernicegiovann1 when you need him? Help me out @fayetozersmith'.

Faye has credited her husband for being 'so supportive' of her Strictly Come Dancing stint, revealing her husband has come down to the studios to support her 'every week' in an interview with OK! magazine.

You've got a little something... The clip kicked off with Giovanni leaning across the table to Faye and plucking the salad leaf from her face at a busy restaurant

====== 1302 ========

CELEBRITY TAN ARTIST SHARES HIS TOP TIPS ON HOW TO NAIL THE PERFECT BRONZED GODDESS LOOK

With the festive party season just around the corner, it is time to start thinking about how you’re going to nail that bronzed party look.

But as many of us know, it is not always easy to flawless, glowing coverage - and avoid streaks - when self-tanning at home.

Isle of Paradise has been created by red- carpet tan artist Jules Von Hep, who describes the brand as a much wanted 'love child' of 10 years of tanning expeirence

Fortunately celebrity tan artist Jules Von Hep, who has worked with A-list stars including Kendall Jenner (her older sister Kim is a huge fan of Isle of Paradise), Kate Moss, Millie Mackintosh and Blake Lively, has come to the rescue with Glow-Ho-Ho, a new three-step self-tanning set from his hit Isle of Paradise range.

The Glow-Ho-Ho set has 40% off exclusively to Boots this Black Friday weekend (now just £29), gives you three full-sized versions of the brand’s best-selling tanning products allowing you to prep, tan, and then remove the look once the party is over.

The brand has developed a cult following due to its salon quality and ease of use (pictured is one fans results after using the 'medium' shade at home)

As well as his innovative colour-correcting formulas, Jules is a huge body-positivity advocate

The secret to the success of Isle of Paradise - Boots’ biggest & most successful self-tan launch ever - is that it is the first ever self-tanning brand to incorporate colour correction into its formula to colour correct skin with the same benefits as make-up.

'Working on shoots, TV and backstage, I found myself customising spray tans by layering colour-correcting powers and foundations onto the skin.

'I literally began to dream about blending green, peach and violet colours into self tanning formulations to create super bright, even skin tones alongside real looking tans. That's where the product journey began,' Jules explains.

Not only that, but all products are vegan and cruelty free, making it the perfect choice for ethically-minded party queens.

Speaking to MailOnline, London-based Jules, whose team criss-cross the globe working with a star-studded list of clients clients, explained exactly how to achieve the perfect bronzed, glowing look.

Isle of Paradise tans are packed with Vitamin C, avocado chia seed and hydrating coconut oils, which combined with the priming Prep It spay means getting an even, streak free tan is easy

BEFORE YOU START

'The trick to a truly flawless glow is ALL in the prep,’ Jules explained. ‘Ensure any shaving or waxing is carried out at least 24 hours prior to application.

‘I recommend exfoliating 24 hours before self tan application using Isle of Paradise Over It. This removes any dead skin cells and also any unwanted old self tan and gives your skin an even surface, so the final result will be uniform and, more importantly, it will fade evenly. Remove any make up using a foam cleanser and deodorant prior to application.’

And his best pro tip? Don’t use a cleansing oil to remove make up as this will act as a barrier to the tan’s penetration.

STEP ONE: PREP IT

‘You wouldn’t apply your make-up without a primer, so why apply your tan without one?,’ asked Jules. That is the idea behind Prep It, the first step of the Glow-Ho-Ho kit.

The product is a pre-tan primer designed to lower the pH of the skin, resulting in a deeper, longer lasting tan. ‘Think of it as three days extra tan on us,’ Jules added.

You can chose from three colour correct shades: peach for a light tan, green for a median tan and violet for a dark tan, all of which are available in drops, water and mouse

STEP TWO: THE ISLE OF PARADISE COLOUR CORRECTING TANNING WATER

Once the Prep It has been fully absorbed, apply the Isle of Paradise Colour Correcting Tanning Water in your desired shade: Peach, a light tan and sun-kissed glow; Green, a medium tan with an anti-redness complex designed to reduce redness; or Violet; a dark tan to reduce orange or sallow tones while providing a deep, natural bronze.

HOW TO TACKLE THE BACK The back is a notoriously difficult part of the body to tackle solo. Fortunately, Jules has a solution. He said: ’If you’re alone and need to reach that infamously hard to tan area – the back – simply lean forward, spray the water into the air above you and let it fall onto your back – this will give a super natural looking finish – no extra pair of hands necessary.’

Jules explained: ‘Tanning waters are the most hydrating self-tan possible as spraying them onto your body is quite literally giving your skin a drink.’

The key is to apply liberally. ‘Your skin should be drenched after application and then gently blended with a mitt, swept carefully over skin to avoid any streaks,’ Jules continued. If you use your hands instead, ensure you wash them thoroughly after application.

If you’re in a hurry, speed up the drying process by using a hairdryer on cool or set the tan using a translucent powder.

And as if it couldn’t get any better, the colour correcting tanning waters are packed with 100 per cent naturally derived tanning actives and avocado, chia seed and coconut oils, giving you a happy, hydrated glow.

STEP THREE: OVER IT

Isle of Paradise is developed to offer everyone a natural looking tan, and are free from phthalates, parabens, sulfates as well as being 100% vegan, cruelty free and organic!

Once you’ve had your fun and want to reset, reach for Isle of Paradise Over It Glycolic Tan Remover, a self-tan remover that lathers and exfoliates the skin, removing any unwanted tan and leaving the skin smooth, refreshed and hydrated.

Explaining how it should be used, Jules said: ‘Spray onto the skin and massage in with your hand so that a lather is formed, leave the formula to sit for five minutes.

Black Friday deal: Get the Isle of Paradise Glow-Ho-Ho gift set for 40% off at just £29 this weekend at Boots!

‘Re-massage every minute paying special attention to those areas that are slightly dryer - elbows, knees, in between the thighs, knuckles and arm pits. Shower off and if needed use exfoliating gloves to work off any stubborn old self tan.’

He added: ’If you have time, I love spraying a sheet mask with this and applying to my face for a hydrating mask with benefits.’

JULES’ TOP EXPERT TIPS It all comes down to keeping the skin moisturised. Jules suggests using an aloe vera based body lotion or butter to make your tan last longer. Also be sure to drink plenty of water to keep yourself and your skin hydrated. Jules said: ‘I always tell my clients before they travel to avoid drinking alcohol on the aeroplane as the combination of pressure mixed with alcohol cause severe drying in the skin and the tan will fade much, much quicker. ‘If you suffer with dry hands, immediately after you have applied your self tan, moisturise your hands again – this will blend the self tan underneath and prevent sticking on the knuckles.’

Get your hands on Isle of Paradise Glow-Ho-Ho gift set for 40% off at just £29 online or in your local Boots store this weekend!

====== 1303 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: EMILY ATACK LEFT PETRIFIED AS SHE'S CIRCLED BY SNAKES

Emily Atack was left petrified when she was faced with pythons in the latest bushtucker trial on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!

The Inbetweeners actress and John Barrowman were pitted against Thompson-Dwyer and Rita Simons in the 'Drown And Out' challenge in Friday's episode, which saw the teams trying to find stars in a tank filling slowly with water.

Emily squealed in panic as water snakes swam around her legs and was forced to cling to a ladder while John, 51, stepped in to try to complete the task.

Look out! Emily Atack was left petrified when she was circled by pythons in the latest bushtucker trial on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here

The trial kicked off with Rita and Malique entering the colosseum as Holly Willoughby, Dec Donnelly and the others stood on podiums.

Dec introduced Emperor Noel and his Inner Circle, which so far comprises of Advisor Harry Redknapp, Fleur East and Sair Khan.

Dec told Emperor Noel that the public had voted Rita and Malique to do today's Trial and that he had to choose two gladiators to compete against them.

The winning team would have a place in the Inner Circle meaning that they would eat from the six stars that were up for grabs in the Trial. They would also be exempt from all duties around camp.

Oh dear: Hosts Willoughby and Dec Donnelly looked on in horror as Emily became surrounded by water snakes

Eeek: Emily squealed in panic as water snakes swam around her legs and was forced to cling to a ladder

It's behind you! The 28-year-old shrieked as one of the pythons squirmed around her in the tiny tank

Emperor Noel consulted his Inner Circle and chose John and Emily. All four hugged as John said: 'I didn't realise this was going to happen. I thought it was a day out with the family however, something different and I'm game for it.'

Meanwhile, Emily cheekily quipped that she was glad she'd put some knickers on.

The rules stated that both teams would start the Trial at the bottom of two tanks. When the time started, the water in the tanks would begin to rise. The teams' aim was to find the keys at the bottom of the tank and undo the padlocks on the coloured levers down the wall of the tank.

Once they had undone all the padlocks on each lever, they would need to remove the chain and pull the lever down. That would make water pour out of the corresponding tap on their opponents' tank.

Tough: The Inbetweeners actress and John Barrowman were pitted against Thompson-Dwyer and Rita Simons in the 'Drown And Out' challenge in Friday's episode, which saw the teams trying to find stars in a tank filling slowly with water

Oh dear: . The teams' aim was to find the keys at the bottom of the tank and undo the padlocks on the coloured levers down the wall of the tank

Challenging: Once they had undone all the padlocks on each lever, they would need to remove the chain and pull the lever down. That would make water pour out of the corresponding tap on their opponents' tank

When the water lever in the rival tank rose and forced then out of the top then the team had won. Dec warned that there would be dummy keys and jungle critters with them in the tanks.

Each celebrity climbed down a ladder into the two tanks. There were yabbies, eels and mudcrabs already in there.

The klaxon sounded to indicate the start of the game. Both teams swung into action but with very different strategies. Rita and Malique retrieved a key at a time and tried to get it to fit a lock where as John and Emily tried to get as many keys as possible, putting them in their pockets before then trying to unlock the padlocks.

Hold your breath: Emily and John were submerged in water during the horrifying task

You can do it: John told Emily to be calm as she squealed as the snakes swam around her legs. 'They don't like you as much as you don't like them. Stick to the plan. It might be a s**t one but keep to it,' he said

Oh no: Emily got more and more bothered about the snakes so John instructed her to give him all the keys whilst she clung to the ladder

Malique and Rita went under the water and retrieved a key and almost straight away unlocked one of their padlocks.

John handed Emily a key but in his haste and to her shock also handed her a yabbie. When they had hands and pocket full of keys they climbed to the top of their tank to start trying to unlock the padlocks.

Bearing in mind, she didn't like water, Rita retained her composure and was focused. Malique also had a great technique of holding his breath for long periods of time whilst sitting on the base of the tank and passing up the keys. This strategy worked and they finally released one of the levers forcing water to pour into Emily and John's tank.

The tanks filled up quickly and more jungle critters started to appear in the tanks including water pythons and crocs. John told Emily to be calm as she squealed as the snakes swam around her legs.

'They don't like you as much as you don't like them. Stick to the plan. It might be a s**t one but keep to it,' he said.

Smashed it: Bearing in mind, she didn't like water, Rita retained her composure and was focused. Malique also had a great technique of holding his breath for long periods of time whilst sitting on the base of the tank and passing up the keys

They can't watch! Holly and Dec observed the task in horror

Meanwhile Rita opened another lever and then Emily and John released one. Emily got more and more bothered about the snakes so John instructed her to give him all the keys whilst she clung to the ladder.

The water rose in both tanks but it was Emily and John's that flooded out first meaning that Rita and Malique were the winners.

Holly revealed that they both released three of their five levers but because Rita and Malique did theirs first they won.

They did it! The water rose in both tanks but it was Emily and John's that flooded out first meaning that Rita and Malique were the winners

Champs: Holly revealed that they both released three of their five levers but because Rita and Malique did theirs first they won

'We didn't give up. We kept on to the end. We're still winners,' said John. But sadly only one team could be made members of the Inner Circle.

'Welcome to the Inner Circle,' Emperor Noel said to Malique and Rita and told Malique: 'You were awesome.'

He added: 'I thought that was terrifying to watch. We were just having kittens. It was awful. They are just awesome.'

Elsewhere, Harry had viewers in stitches as he made a saucy joke about his wife Sandra while revealing he often gets cramp.

Hmm: Meanwhile, Holly Willoughby's £350 yellow floral print dress received a mixed reaction from viewers

Not loving it? Some fans joked that the dress made her resemble the popular cartoon Fred Flintstone

The footballer manager woke up Noel Edmonds in the morning with cramp in his leg, complaining: 'I can't tell you how painful it is.'

Noel joked: 'I'll have to take you off at half time,' before propping the 71-year-old's leg up and massaging it.

Harry revealed he normally gets his beloved wife Sandra to massage out the cramp - and joked that she sometimes mistook his cries of pain for pleasure.

'I've had it at home before and normally shout for Sandra,' he explained.

Cheeky: Elsewhere, Harry had viewers in stitches as he made a saucy joke about his wife Sandra while revealing he often gets cramp

Candid: Harry revealed he normally gets his beloved wife Sandra to massage out the cramp - and joked that she sometimes mistook his cries of pain for pleasure

'I have had it before during a difficult time. I think Sandra thought I was really enjoying myself at that time but it was cramp, I was screaming, I bet she thought "bloody hell, Harry's getting excited' but it was the cramp I had.'

Talking in the Bush Telegraph, Emperor Noel said: 'I woke up to the cries of Harry Redknapp in agony with cramp.'

He added: 'It was a very difficult moment for me - I don't know Harry that well. We've only been sleeping together for 24 hours. He did make a bit of a fuss about it.'

After Noel and Harry emerged from their shack, Harry joked that the TV star had been massaging him inappropriately to the other campmates.

'I woke up from cramp and Noel was rubbing my leg under my clothes! I said "the cramp is in my calf, not in my groin!" ' he quipped as the camp laughed and Noel protested: 'Shut it!'

Saucy: He said: 'I think Sandra thought I was really enjoying myself at that time but it was cramp, I was screaming, I bet she thought "bloody hell, Harry's getting excited' but it was the cramp I had'

Later in the episode, Anne Hegerty impressed her campmates as she excelled in the 'Terror Cotta' challenge.

Anne, James McVey and Nick Knowles had to smash terracotta vases by firing rocks from crossbows to win care packages for the rest of the camp.

Despite being covered in fish guts and critters, the TV star managed to shoot several vases before yelling 'I'm A Celebrity' to get out of the task.

Both James and Nick were full of pride for her, declaring how impressed they were with her for persevering with the task for so long.

Altogether, they managed to score eight care packages for camp out of a possible 11.

Nailed it: Later in the episode, Anne Hegerty impressed her campmates as she excelled in the 'Terror Cotta' challenge

Gruelling: Anne, James McVey and Nick Knowles had to smash terracotta vases by firing rocks from crossbows to win care packages for the rest of the camp

Success: Anne, as well as James McVey and Nick Knowles, managed to score eight care packages for camp out of a possible 11

At the end of the episode, Malique Thompson-Dwyer broke down in tears when he received news about his baby daughter in a letter from home.

The Hollyoaks actor couldn't hold back the emotion when Rita Simons revealed in a note from his mum that his little girl shouts 'Dada' every time she sees him on the TV.

The 20-year-old, who became a father as a teenager, was even given a photo of the one-year-old, which he sweetly said he'd be hugging that night as he went to sleep.

Emotional: Malique Thompson-Dwyer broke down in tears when he received news about his baby daughter in a letter from home

Proud dad: The Hollyoaks actor couldn't hold back the emotion when Rita Simons revealed in a note from his mum that his little girl shouts 'Dada' every time she sees him on the TV

Cute: The 20-year-old, who became a father as a teenager, was even given a photo of the one-year-old, which he sweetly said he'd be hugging that night as he went to sleep

Malique was one of eight campmates to receive a care package from home in Friday's episode - after just five days in the jungle.

EastEnders star Rita Simons had his letter, which read: 'Your daughter screams when she sees you on the screen shouting 'Dada!' '

Malique also received his favourite chocolate and a photo of his girl, whose name he has never revealed.

Discussing the emotional moment, the actor said: 'Seeing that picture is just making me miss her even more. I'll definitely sleep and hug that tonight.'

Adorable: The actor welcomed his child - who he refers to only as his 'princess' on social media - in 2017 when he was 19. It is not known who is the girl's mother

Viewers flocked to Twitter to express their shock at the young actor being a father.

'Wait, what?! Malique has a kid?! Isn't he about 12?!' One baffled fan asked.

Another added: 'As if Malique has a daughter..he's an embryo! lets hope the mom is the brains of the operation eh!'

The actor welcomed his child - who he refers to only as his 'princess' on social media - in 2017. It is not known who is the girl's mother.

Can't believe it: Viewers flocked to Twitter to express their shock at the young actor being a father

He previously admitted his life completely changed as he adjusted to becoming a first time father at 19.

He told his Instagram followers that year: 'I'm not going to lie, 2017 broke me, matured me, whooped my ass, humbled me, blessed me, made me smarter and wiser.

'It showed me snakes are everywhere & family & friends are just titles if the love isn't real.'

Meanwhile, elsewhere on I'm A Celebrity fans were also left unimpressed at the decision to give the campmates care packages after they'd spent less than a week in the jungle.

'Bit early for the care packages bit on #ImACeleb isn't it?' one user wrote.

'They've been in the jungle like five days why are they already getting letters from home ain't that like a last week thing #imaceleb,' another agreed.

Too much: Eight out of the 11 celebrities received care packages from home - despite only having been in the jungle for five days

Getting tearful: The Vamps guitarist comforted Rita when she started crying

Emily Atack got teary when Fleur East read out a letter from her sister and then opened her package to find her favourite crisps.

Anne was next and John read a letter from her family. The TV star was pleasantly surprised to find that they'd sent her favourite crisps.

Sair Khan started to cry before Rita even had chance to read her letter from her boyfriend Simon.

Meanwhile, John Barrowman’s letter from his husband Scott. Emily read Fleur’s letter from her sister and she also started to cry. Nick, James and Harry didn’t have care packages.

Can't handle it: James McVey read Rita’s letter from her daughters

====== 1304 ========

EASTENDERS FANS DISGUSTED AS SHARON IS INTIMATE WITH PHIL WHILE KEANU REMAINS UNDERNEATH BED

EastEnders fans were disgusted with Friday night’s episode after Sharon Mitchell had a steamy romp with her husband Phil - all while her naked lover Keanu remained trapped crying underneath their bed.

Letitia Dean’s character was gobsmacked when her hardman husband unexpectedly returned home while she was mid-steamy session with her young beau, who was handcuffed to the bed.

The adulterous pair narrowly escaped being caught but Keanu (Danny Walters) wasn’t left with enough time to escape.

Disgusting: EastEnders fans were left sickened by Friday night’s episode after Sharon Mitchell had a steamy romp with her husband Phil - all while her naked lover Keanu remained trapped crying underneath their bed

Instead he remained hidden underneath the bed while Phil (Steve McFadden) treated Sharon to a gift that can’t be bought in the shops, following his business trip abroad.

And while the Mitchell matriarch tried to convince her husband to leave, the pair eventually fell into bed together.

With tears streaming down his face, Keanu had to listen not once, but twice, to the pair getting it on.

Struggles: The adulterous pair narrowly escaped being caught by Phil but Keanu (Danny Walters) wasn’t left with enough time to escape

Sad times: With tears streaming down his face, Keanu had to listen not once, but twice, to the pair getting it on

Taking to Twitter, viewers were quick to share their disgust with the BBC Soap’s scenes.

One animated user wrote: 'So just watched tonight's @bbceastenders ... And I am literally seething! How the hell could Sharon do that to Keanu! Phil or no Phil!

'He had to actually listen to them together and all she could say was "Am sorry"... Grow a pair woman and tell Phil to sling his hook!'

Reaction: Taking to Twitter, viewers were quick to share their disgust with the BBC Soap’s scenes

Another added: 'I've got sick in my mouth listening to Phil and Sharon.'

A third said: 'Oh please tell me they haven't had sex with him laying under the bed listening to it all? He'll be in therapy for years.'

Others were equally disturbed by the scenes, with one writing: 'Imagine being stuck under Phil and Sharon's bed whilst they're doing the nasty. You nasty!'

EastEnders airs Mondays and Fridays at 8pm and Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7.30pm on BBC1

====== 1305 ========

VICKY PATTISON FLAUNTS HER TONED BODY AS EX FIANCÉ JOHN NOBLE PARTIES WITH SCANTILY CLAD WOMEN

Their split was officially announced on Friday, two weeks after he was caught getting close to a bevy of women on a lads' holiday.

And Vicky Pattison showed off her toned bikini body in a sizzling snap, as her ex fiancé John Noble partied with scantily-clad women on a night out in Durham on Friday.

The ex Geordie Shore star, 31, flaunted her ample assets and toned midriff in a scanty yellow string bikini, as she enjoyed a relaxing spa break with her mother at County Durham's Seaham Hall.

Good spirits: Vicky Pattison showed off her toned bikini body in a sizzling snap, as her ex fiancé John Noble partied with scantily-clad women on a night out in Durham on Friday

Looking in good spirits in the midst of her heartbreak, the star's tresses were styled in loose waves while her pretty features were enhanced with a radiant dusting of make-up.

Just 13 miles away from his ex John partied up a storm with champagne and scantily-clad women at Players Bar in Durham.

Taking to his Instagram stories, he documented his wild night out as women in scanty outfits held flaming bottles of champagne.

Selfie: Just 13 miles away from his ex John partied up a storm with champagne and scantily-clad women at Players Bar in Durham

Party on: Taking to his Instagram stories, he documented his wild night out as women in scanty outfits held flaming bottles of champagne

Raucous: John was out on the town very close to ex Vicky

This comes as insiders exclusively revealed the news to MailOnline, as it was revealed that Vicky has decided to part ways with her beau after previously admitting she was 'heartbroken and humiliated'.

She is said to be 'concentrating on her busy work schedule' while trying to stay positive in the midst of the drama, which John has remained silent on, instead sharing a host of shirtless snaps on Instagram.

Sources revealed: 'Vicky and John are officially over. She is concentrating on her busy work schedule and surrounding herself with positivity, friends and family...

Heartache:This comes as insiders exclusively revealed the news to MailOnline, as it was revealed that Vicky has decided to part ways with her beau after previously admitting she was 'heartbroken and humiliated'

'It’s been a difficult couple of weeks but she is moving on with her life and looking forward to the future.’

Prior to the news coming out, Vicky took to Instagram to reveal she was suffering with anxiety on Thursday evening following a night out in London.

Vicky and John were first pictured together in the X Factor audience in October 2016, having already dated 10 years previously, when she was just 20.

Moving on: Insiders exclusively revealed the news to MailOnline, as it was revealed that the 31-year-old former Geordie Shore star has decided to part ways with her beau after previously admitting she was 'heartbroken and humiliated'

Shock: She is said to be 'concentrating on her busy work schedule' while trying to stay positive in the midst of the drama, which John has remained silent on, instead sharing a host of shirtless snaps on Instagram

Moving on: Vicky has maintained steely in the face of the controversy yet admitted she was feeling 'crippling' humiliation surrounding the scandal

After confirming their romance in November 2016, they went on to announce their engagement in July last year, when Vicky proudly flaunted her 3.6-carat marquise-cut diamond engagement ring before easing herself into wedding planning.

Vicky and John's ill-fated romance Around 2008: Vicky and John first enjoyed a brief romance October 2016: The couple were spotted together at The X Factor sparking romance rumours November 2016: After joining Vicky in Australia during her I'm A Celeb commitments, the couple confirmed their romance July 2017: The couple confirmed their engagement with a dramatic magazine spread where Vicky flashed her 3.6-carat marquise-cut engagement ring January 2018: Vicky revealed she had postponed their wedding 'by a year or two' as she 'wasn't ready to be a wife' despite having planned a lavish £175,000 ceremony this summer November 2018: Images surfaced of John getting close to a bevy of women during a trip to Dubai, before the official end to their relationship days later

News of the split comes after it was revealed the couple had began filming a bridal show just days before John headed on his fateful trip.

Despite the fairy-tale aspects of their romance, sadly things came crashing down earlier this month when John was exposed for his love rat ways when a number of images and videos came to light showing her beau mingling with other revellers.

To add to her heartache, the betrayal will see the end of the wedding lead-up show however it has been revealed she will tackle the programme solo.

Insiders told MailOnline: 'Vicky and John had a wedding special confirmed and started filming just a few days before John went on the boys' trip to Dubai.

'Obviously it was devastating for Vicky to have all this come out just after they started shooting. Vicky has decided to carry on filming with the crew. She's a professional and didn't want to let anyone down.

'It goes without saying it won't be a wedding show, but will follow Vicky on the next chapter as she bounces back from John's betrayal. She was excited to be starting wedding planning and looking at venues, but life has changed now.'

History: The pair first dated 10 years ago and rekindled their relationship in recent years, with John proposing to Vicky in July last year

Defiant: Far from weighing in on the situation, John has been sharing a number of saucy selfies on social media - undoubtedly to Vicky's shock

Vicky also scooped a number of other wedding-themed projects.

Prior to John's Dubai trip, Vicky had launched her inaugural bridal column with The Sun, while she also launched an Instagram page to follow her body transformation ahead of the big day.

The page, Vicky's Bridal Bod has not been used since November 8, just two days before the imagery of John partying with other women was unearthed.

What heartache? Vicky put on a brave face as she hosted an I'm a Celebrity segment on This Morning on Friday

High spirits: The star giggled incessantly with hosts Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford as she discussed the I'm a Celebrity stars' eventful first week

Onward and upwards: Vicky is seemingly throwing her self into work after confirming the split

Moving on: Prior to John's Dubai trip, Vicky had launched her inaugural bridal column with The Sun, while she also launched an Instagram page to follow her body transformation ahead of the big day

Happy days: Additionally, Vicky appeared on TLC's Say Yes To The Dress last year in a bid to find her perfect gown for the big day that never was

Put on hold: John's betrayal was not the first time the couple's romance was dragged to a halt as in January Vicky confessed she has postponed her wedding by up to two years

Additionally, Vicky appeared on TLC's Say Yes To The Dress last year in a bid to find her perfect gown for the big day that never was.

John's betrayal was not the first time the couple's romance was dragged to a halt as in January Vicky confessed she has postponed her wedding by up to two years because she doesn't feel 'ready to be a wife'.

She revealed her plans to tie the knot in a lavish £175,000 ceremony this summer, yet told OK! magazine she and John did not leave enough time to plan their perfect nuptials, and so have decided to delay the proceedings by 'a year or two'.

====== 1306 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: MALIQUE THOMPSON-DWYER GETS LETTER FROM HIS DAUGHTER.

Malique Thompson-Dwyer broke down in tears when he received news about his baby daughter in a letter from home.

The Hollyoaks actor couldn't hold back the emotion when Rita Simons revealed in a note from his mum that his little girl shouts 'Dada' every time she sees him on the TV.

The 20-year-old, who became a father as a teenager, was even given a photo of the one-year-old, which he sweetly said he'd be hugging that night as he went to sleep.

Emotional: Malique Thompson-Dwyer broke down in tears when he received news about his baby daughter in a letter from home

Malique was one of eight campmates to receive a care package from home in Friday's episode - after just five days in the jungle.

EastEnders star Rita Simons had his letter, which read: 'Your daughter screams when she sees you on the screen shouting 'Dada!' '

Malique also received his favourite chocolate and a photo of his girl, whose name he has never revealed.

Discussing the emotional moment, the actor said: 'Seeing that picture is just making me miss her even more. I'll definitely sleep and hug that tonight.'

Proud dad: The Hollyoaks actor couldn't hold back the emotion when Rita Simons revealed in a note from his mum that his little girl shouts 'Dada' every time she sees him on the TV

Cute: The 20-year-old, who became a father as a teenager, was even given a photo of the one-year-old, which he sweetly said he'd be hugging that night as he went to sleep

Viewers flocked to Twitter to express their shock at the young actor being a father.

'Wait, what?! Malique has a kid?! Isn't he about 12?!' One baffled fan asked.

Another added: 'As if Malique has a daughter..he's an embryo! lets hope the mom is the brains of the operation eh!'

The actor welcomed his child - who he refers to only as his 'princess' on social media - in 2017. It is not known who is the girl's mother.

Overwhelmed: Discussing the emotional moment, the actor said: 'Seeing that picture is just making me miss her even more. I'll definitely sleep and hug that tonight'

Adorable: The actor welcomed his child - who he refers to only as his 'princess' on social media - in 2017 when he was 19. It is not known who is the girl's mother

He previously admitted his life completely changed as he adjusted to becoming a first time father at 19.

He told his Instagram followers that year: 'I'm not going to lie, 2017 broke me, matured me, whooped my ass, humbled me, blessed me, made me smarter and wiser.

'It showed me snakes are everywhere & family & friends are just titles if the love isn't real.'

Can't believe it: Viewers flocked to Twitter to express their shock at the young actor being a father

Meanwhile, elsewhere on I'm A Celebrity fans were also left unimpressed at the decision to give the campmates care packages after they'd spent less than a week in the jungle.

'Bit early for the care packages bit on #ImACeleb isn't it?' one user wrote.

'They've been in the jungle like five days why are they already getting letters from home ain't that like a last week thing #imaceleb,' another agreed.

Emily Atack got teary when Fleur East read out a letter from her sister and then opened her package to find her favourite crisps.

Too much: Eight out of the 11 celebrities received care packages from home - despite only having been in the jungle for five days

Can't handle it: James McVey read Rita’s letter from her daughters

Anne was next and John read a letter from her family. The TV star was pleasantly surprised to find that they'd sent her favourite crisps.

Sair Khan started to cry before Rita even had chance to read her letter from her boyfriend Simon.

Meanwhile, John Barrowman’s letter from his husband Scott. Emily read Fleur’s letter from her sister and she also started to cry. Nick, James and Harry didn’t have care packages.

Getting tearful: The Vamps guitarist comforted Rita when she started crying

====== 1307 ========

X FACTOR FAVOURITE DALTON HARRIS REVEALS CHILDHOOD ABUSE THAT LEFT HIM FEELING SUICIDAL

X Factor star Dalton Harris has revealed he was abused as a child, with one of his mother’s boyfriends punching him ‘so hard he crashed through a window’.

The 24-year-old, who is tipped to win this year’s competition with his soulful voice, has spoken about how performing is therapy for him and how he has forgiven those he claims hurt him.

One of at least 22 siblings, the Jamaican-native described to The Mirror the horror of growing up in poverty and, he claims, being often beaten.

Troubled times: X Factor star Dalton Harris has revealed he was abused as a child, with one of his mother’s boyfriends punching him ‘so hard he crashed through a window’

He said: ‘There’s a cut above my right eyebrow and cuts around my ears and head but I grew my hair to hide them.

‘There are more on my chest, arm, shoulder, back, thighs, legs and feet. I was punched so hard by a guy dating my mum I crashed through a window.’

‘I was told that I should walk into the road and kill myself. I was told I was ugly and illegitimate,’ Dalton added.

Candid: The 24-year-old, who is tipped to win this year’s competition, has spoken about how performing is therapy for him and how he has forgiven those he claims hurt him

The performer, who now has no relationship with his mother and promiscuous father, was only 15-years-old when he was made homeless, spending his time living behind a shop, a church, and in basements.

He scraped a living by painting houses and recycling school books into diaries, but his incredible voice, which was first spotted at Sunday school when he was seven, was a lifeline.

Having heard him sing, a teacher entered Dalton into a competition. Following this win, he was crowned a national talent show winner in 2011, with a prize of £6,000 (one million Jamaican dollars).

Tough times: The performer, who now has no relationship with his mother and promiscuous father, was only 15-years-old when he was made homeless

Nonetheless, at the age of 17, Dalton was struggling to overcome his negative childhood, adding: ‘When people tell you to go and kill yourself, after a couple of years you feel like you probably should.’

But the singer says he ‘got through that stage’ and started forgive those that had hurt him.

And while Dalton explained to the publication his aspirations of one day having a family, for now he is focused on his singing ambitions.

For confidential support call the Samaritans in the UK on 08457 90 90 90, visit a local Samaritans branch or click here for details.

====== 1308 ========

7 DAY WEIGHTLOSS: HOW TO SLIM DOWN BEFORE CHRISTMAS PARTY SEASON

One of the best bits about this time of year is the fact we get to enjoy cosy nights in, wrap up in warm layers and dine out on comfort food.

The downside of that is our waistlines (and portion sizes!) tend to run away with themselves. While 'tis certainly the season to be jolly, it's also a time jam-packed with socialising, canapés and cocktails.

However, if the idea of slipping into a LBD or a tailored tux for your festive parties is already making you feel slightly panicked, don't worry. Thousands of people across the country claim to have discovered a way to shape up before a big event in just seven days - and it couldn't be simpler!

Boombod, Holland & Barrett's best-rated weight-loss supplement, is the pre-Christmas gift we've all been looking for - whether you want to lose a few pounds, battle bloating or just avoid unnecessary weight gain.

Here we reveal how these real women achieved fantastic results by making just one change to their daily routines...

Victoria, 23, Office Administrator from Derby

Victoria loved her results after using Boombod over seven days (pictured one week apart)

The 23-year-old felt less bloated, felt her sugar cravings disappeared and had much more energy during the plan

'I’ve always suffered from bloating and have seen this advertised on Instagram and other people's amazing results so thought I’d give it a go.

'Bloating has been a major issue of mine for as long as I can remember; no matter what I seem to eat or drink it affects my tummy and digestive system. But I have found the main culprits are carbohydrates.

'I started taking the Boombod shots - one before a healthy breakfast, another before lunch and then one before dinner - and within days I felt amazing! I felt so much more comfortable, didn’t have the right bloating feeling and had more energy.

'The most obvious changes physically was a drastic reduced my bloating but I noticed it cut down my cravings massively, especially for sugary foods.

'After the first week I felt 100 per cent more confident in my body. I have always been conscious of how much I bloat, and this has made such a difference and everyone has commented on how good it has worked! I now have recommended it to all my friends - and even my mum is doing it!'

Kayde, Entrepreneur and mother of two from Florida

Mum of two Kayde, who suffers from Crohn's disease, used the Boombod plan to help cut her snacking and decrease her bloating (before and after two weeks apart)

Kayde found Boombod ideal for kickstarting her healthy routine, giving her the energy to go back to the gym and even helping her sleep better

'I suffer from Crohn's disease and there are some days that no matter how disciplined I am with eating or working out, I still have gut. I also have a problem with craving and snacking, so I decided to try Boombod to help with this and also to see if it had any impact on my bloating.

'Within a few days of taking the three daily shots alongside healthy meals I noticed my cravings were gone! Literally no snacking - didn't even think about it. Also my bloating disappeared.

'But one of the best parts was I felt full and energised. I was able to concentrate and focus more at work, had more regular bowel movements and also slept better than usual. I also believe that I felt better because my water intake increased - something which is essential when taking soluble fibre like Boombod.

'The week-long plan has kickstarted a whole new 'me' and the early changes have got the ball rolling with getting back into the gym. I have done an additional week - will stop to allow some indulgence over Thanksgiving - and then get back on the Boombod plan.'

Since its launch, Boombod has helped thousands of people achieve their weight loss goals by reducing cravings and bloating and giving them more energy to focus on their health

Party season plan: Feel confident this Christmas with Boombod While this is the time of year we all enjoy a spot of indulging in good grub and delicious drinks, it's easy to let the good times roll away with themselves. So, if you want to keep on top of your weight or lose a few pounds so your party outfits better, Boombod is the simple and efficient way to look and feel fantastic. Just add three daily shots to your daily routine before healthy meals and see bloating and cravings reduced dramatically. Here's an example of your daily party season plan with Boombod: MORNING: Take your Morning Energiser shot, which contains glycomman and essential energy boosting vitamins such as Iron, Magnesium and Vitamin C. Thirty minutes later have your first meal of the day, such as low-fat yoghurt with blueberries and banana or two poached eggs on wholemeal toast. LUNCH: Mix up your midday shot; the Afternoon Motivator helps ease afternoon fatigue and included vitamin Zinc, Vitamin B12, B6 and B1. Thirty minutes later eat lunch, whether a tuna salad sandwich on a whole-grain roll with spinach and low-fat mayo or chicken breast with couscous mixed with fresh herbs and peppers. DINNER: Time to take your evening shot - the Night Rejuvenator helps to hair and skin to rebuild overnight with vitamins including Biotin, Selenium and Vitamin D3. Your final meal of the day could include a palm-sized piece of portion such as lean steak with roasted tomatoes in garlic, asparagus and a sweet potato. SNACKS: Rather then reaching for a chocolate or crisp fix, Boombod will help your cravings ease off. However, if you're hungry try having a handful of cashew nuts or a slice of Granny Smith apple with a tablespoon of peanut butter. NOW FOR THE SCIENCE BIT... The secret ingredient is glucomannan. This natural fibre makes up each sachet, and containing only 10 calories, helps to reduce appetite, cleanse and decrease bloating and has been used in China for hundreds of years as part of their daily diets. Start your 7-day plan TODAY by buying your Boombod from Holland & Barrett HERE... now currently on sale for better than half price at £14.49 in the lead up to Black Friday.

Gemma, 18, Customer Service Apprentice from Basingstoke

Gemma also tackled her long-term bloating issues with a helping hand from Boombod (pictures taken nine days apart)

Gemma now feels more confident, has had the energy to join a bootcamp class and even found her skin was clearer

‘Boombod appealed to me because it’s so easy to use and you don’t have to stick to a strict diet plan whilst losing weight.

‘I used to bloat after eating carbs, or overindulging in sugary and high-fat foods and now that isn’t something I have to worry about.

‘Within the first two days of using Boombod I felt a lot better, and even a little slimmer.

‘I was definitely less bloated and felt generally healthier as I wasn’t snacking on snacks in between meals. I also had a lot more energy which encouraged me to join a bootcamp exercise class which helped aid my weight loss.

‘But the biggest benefit for me was it helped me not to eat until I felt stuffed and bloated. I found it easier to control my portion sizes while taking the sachets and it was a relief to wake up in the mornings and not feel uncomfortable from eating lots of food before bed.

‘By taking Boombod I feel a lot more confident in my body - I even found my skin was a lot clearer within the first week - and its giving me the boost I needed for my weight-loss journey.

‘I have told all my friends and family who are dieting to try it out as you get quick results which last.’

See more incredible transformations HERE...

====== 1309 ========

NICK KNOWLES DID 'JAM' ON A ROOF WITH BIFFY CLYRO, HOTEL'S OWNER CONFIRMS

I'm A Celebrity star Nick Knowles did ‘jam’ with Biffy Clyro on a roof in Soho, the hotel’s CEO has claimed.

The DIY:SOS presenter, 56, recently claimed his musical career was kick-started after he ‘jammed’ at the top of the Karma Sanctum Soho alongside the Scottish band - with the rock group’s drummer denying this had occurred.

Yet the establishment's owner, Mark Fuller, revealed to The Sun Online: ‘They got the guitar out and jammed on the roof 'til the early hours. Nick is a really great friend of mine, and always up for a party.’

It happened!I'm A Celebrity star Nick Knowles did ‘jam’ with Biffy Clyro on a roof in Soho, the hotel’s CEO has claimed

A source added: ‘No idea why Biffy Clyro are being so coy about it - they were up all night jamming with Nick.

‘Everyone was buying champagne and getting tipsy. It was such a good night!’

Mailonline has contacted reps for Biffy Clyro and Nick for comment.

Nick's new single, Make You Feel My Love topped the iTunes' chart on Wednesday, with the tune beating the likes of Cheryl, Lady Gaga and P!nk.

The DIY:SOS presenter, 56, recently claimed his musical career was kick-started after he ‘jammed’ at the top of the Karma Sanctum Soho alongside the Scottish band (pictured)

The TV presenter said his record deal came following his jamming session with the rock band when speaking to Emily Atack on I'm A Celeb on Tuesday night: 'Somebody heard me, I was playing on a rooftop bar in Soho with some other bands... it was Biffy Clyro.

'Somebody from a record company saw me doing it and I got a phone call saying, "I'm from Universal, want to do an album?"'

Yet Biffy Clyro drummer Ben Johnston has laughed off Nick's stories when calling into Greg James' Radio 1 Breakfast Show on Thursday morning to set the record straight.

Fast and loose: Biffy Clyro drummer Ben Johnston [R] has laughed off Nick's [L] stories

After @MrNickKnowles claimed on #ImACeleb that @BiffyClyro started his music career we thought we'd find out their side of the story 🤔@gregjames spoke to Ben from the band and it turns out not all is as it seems... pic.twitter.com/ve5bLBTEIc — BBC Radio 1 (@BBCR1) November 22, 2018

He told the radio host: 'I think he was being a bit fast and loose with the truth there. It wasn’t quite the Kumbaya situation he made it out to be.'

He explained: 'We were at the same party in Soho after an awards ceremony and Nick bought a bottle of champagne. There might have a been a guitar there but I don’t know.

'I won’t say a bad word against him he’s a nice guy but it wasn’t quite like that.'

Star caller: Ben called into Greg James' Breakfast Show on Radio 1 on Thursday morning to set the record straight

Greg then suggested Nick support Ben's band on their next tour, which Ben agreed was a good idea.

'Yeah he could put up and take down the stage with his DIY skills,' he joked.

Biffy Clyro seemed to encourage the rumours before Ben's appearance on Radio 1.

After Holly Willoughby and Declan Donnelly suggested the nation get '#BiffyClyroNotEmbarrassedTheyJammedWithNickKnowles' trending, the band were quick to tweet with the hashtag.

His version: Ben [L] told Greg, 'I think he was being a bit fast and loose with the truth there. It wasn’t quite the Kumbaya situation he made it out to be'

Number one: Nick's song topped the iTunes download charts on Wednesday

While one breakfast show was doing it's bit to sabotage Nick's music career, another was championing it.

Chris Moyles spearheaded a campaign on Radio X to get crooner Nick in the charts.

But not everyone's a fan. Last year, Noel Gallagher slammed Nick's singing skills in an interview with Alan Carr's Chatty Man which aired on Christmas day.

He said: 'My delivery is better than that. I don't sound like I'm having a stroke when I'm singing it.'

Kind: Nick's generosity in giving autistic campmate Anne Hegerty, 60, his pillow in the jungle, also won him an army of new fans

Joining in on the digs, boisterous Chatty Man host Alan, added: 'His delivery was less album, more audiobook.'

Of his move into singing, Nick told MailOnline last year: 'I used to be the guitarist at school in a band but it was never going to turn into a career.

'And then I started to do acting. That then led to TV work - mostly factual and news stuff. So I was busy trying to build a TV career.

'But with my TV work I went to Australia and Africa – and I took my guitar with me, to the ass-end of nowhere. I was always playing. It kept the wildlife awake.'

DIY make-up: Nick had an interesting look to promote his music back in 1996

Getting wiggy with it: A red hairpiece and backing dancers was all Nick needed back in the day

In his younger days, Nick also hosted gigs on Friday nights in one of the rooms of a local pub in London, when people leaving the West End shows would come and watch afterwards.

He continued: 'Music has always played a big part of my life,' he said. 'With DIY:SOS, we are always away on location. So I'd take my guitar and whoever's on location with me, I'll play for them. We have had some great nights.'

'I didn't seek this path, it found me really,' he said. 'I’m a story teller. I write scripts too. I have written a movie that toured around the world. These are all creative areas.

'It's a very British thing to stay in lanes. I got a tweet from a teacher about why I'm moving into music, and I was like "are you going to teach your students to only ever do one thing with their lives".'

His new single, Make You Feel My Love, he thinks compliments his deep voice, and 'raised eyebrows' because he'd chosen to cover an Adele track.

'Actually it was written by Bob Dylan,' he said. 'So it was written for a male voice.'

====== 1310 ========

I’M A CELEB VIEWERS STUNNED AS HOLLYOAKS' MALIQUE THOMPSON-DWYER IS CAUGHT SMOKING IN CAMP

It's a show which often gives the impression that the celebrities are without any type of luxuries - except those they win.

Yet eagle-eyed I’m A Celeb viewers spotted Hollyoaks’ Malique Thompson-Dwyer casually smoking on Friday’s episode.

The 20-year-old could be seen with a cigarette in hand as he spoke with his campmates around the fire.

Eagle-eyed: I’m A Celeb viewers spotted Hollyoaks’ Malique Thompson-Dwyer casually smoking on Friday’s episode

The obvious blunder - as the ITV reality show doesn’t usually air the stars smoking on screen - left fans wondering how the actor got his cigarettes.

But he isn’t the only contestant who smokes, with newcomer Noel Edmonds, 69, suggesting EastEnders actress Rita Simons, 41, was also partial to the odd cigarette.

Shortly after entering the jungle the entertainer told viewers how the actress had always ‘got a fag in her mouth’.

Spotted: The 20-year-old could be seen with a cigarette in hand as he spoke with his campmates around the fire

A spokesperson for ITV told The Sun: ‘Celebrities who smoke are allowed to smoke in camp.

‘They have to smoke near the campfire and then put stubs out in the fire.

‘We don’t have an allocation regarding cigarettes, if a celebrity smokes, they can smoke. Smoking is not hidden on screen.’

With the power to allocate jobs to his co-stars when entering the campsite, Noel decided to make Rita one of the people responsible for wood and keeping the fire alight as she is often spotted smoking by her fellow campmates.

Reaction: Yet fans were quick to question what they were seeing

Pals: But he isn’t the only contestant who smokes, with newcomer Noel Edmonds, 69, suggesting EastEnders actress Rita Simons, 41, was also partial to the odd cigarette

Speaking in the Bush Telegraph, Rita said: ‘I’ve got the dream job; I’m in charge of fire and fags.’

Yet fans were quick to question what they were seeing, with one tweeting: ‘Malique is smoking! Since when are they allowed to smoke in there? Has that always been allowed and I’ve missed it!?’

Another said: ‘Do my eyes deceive me… smoking in I’m A Celebrity? What’s going on?’

While a third added: ‘Is Malique smoking in camp?!!!! That is a bit of a luxury!’

I'm A Celebrity continues on November 24 at 9pm.

====== 1311 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY'S HARRY REDKNAPP, 71, MELTS HEARTS AS HE TALKS ABOUT HIS LOVE FOR WIFE SANDRA

He has entertained his campmates with his anecdotes about how he ran over his wife Sandra and accidentally destroyed her beloved flowerbeds with a jet-wash.

But Harry Redknapp left his pals in tears on Thursday night as he talked about his enduring love for his 71-year-old partner on I'm A Celebrity.

The football manager, also 71, who has been married to Sandra for 54 years, melted viewers' hearts as he revealed he calls her 10 times a day and likened his relationship to 'winning the lottery'.

Sweet: Harry Redknapp left his pals in tears on Thursday night as he talked about his enduring love for his 71-year-old partner on I'm A Celebrity

During a chat with Fleur East and Sair Khan, Harry, who has two sons with Sandra, said: 'Even when I'm out I ring her 10 times a day. She's my life. I'm a bit scared, getting a bit older. I love her too much, if anything happened it would just kill me.

'We just get on so well, I only want to be with her. I can never wait to see her.'

'Jamie [his son] says "you've won the lottery".'

True love: The football manager, 71, who has been married to Sandra for 54 years, melted viewers' hearts as he likened his relationship to 'winning the lottery'

Soulmates: During a chat with Fleur East and Sair Khan, Harry, who has two sons with Sandra, said: 'Even when I'm out I ring her 10 times a day. She's my life.'

The heartwarming conversation left viewers taking to Twitter in their droves to remark on his deep love for Sandra.

One tweeted: 'I want to have a relationship like Harry Redknapp and his wife!!'

'How endearing #HarryRedknapp bet his wife is proud to have a husband who's love for her is just beautiful', with another fan adding: 'The way Harry Redknapp talked about his wife Sandra was just so beautiful and touching #truelove. I love Harry more and more every night what a guy.'

'Harry Redknapp talking about his wife and how much he loves her made my heart melt. The don't make men like that anymore,' another commented.

Touching: The heartwarming conversation left viewers taking to Twitter in their droves to remark on his deep love for Sandra

The couple met at a dance above London's East End pub the Two Puddings more than 50 years ago, when Harry was just 16.

They went on to have two sons together; retired footballer Jamie, 45, and Mark, 48, a model.

During his stint in the jungle Harry and John Barrowman, 51, struck up the 'loveliest' of friendships when the pair shared the stories of how they both met their partners.

I'm A Celebrity: John Barrowman, 51, and Harry Redknapp, 71, have struck up the 'loveliest' of friendships as the pair shared the stories of how they both met their partners

Romantic: The couple met at a dance above London's East End pub the Two Puddings more than 50 years ago, when Harry was just 16 (pictured together in 1976)

Love at first sight: The former Birmingham City manager revealed how his wife Sandra, picked him over his ‘good looking’ friend at the dance

The former Birmingham City manager revealed how his wife Sandra, picked him over his ‘good looking’ friend at the dance.

Speaking to his campmate, Harry explained: 'Me and my mate Macca, he was a goalkeeper for West Ham, saw these two lovely girls and I said to Macca shall we have a dance with those two.

'Macca is a good looking geezer and I look back on it now and think Sandra must have seen us both coming over and thought "I hope I ain't got him" (referring to himself) and she went for me, 54 years later we’re still going strong.'

Footballers: They went on to have two sons together; retired footballer Jamie, 45, (pictured with father Harry as a child) and Mark, 48, a model

Funny man: He has entertained his campmates with his anecdotes about how he ran over his wife Sandra and accidentally destroyed her beloved flowerbeds with a jet-wash

The uncle of Chelsea legend Frank Lampard laughed: 'And Macca ended up as an undertaker so really Sandra had the better deal in the long term.'

Talking in the Bush Telegraph afterwards, John said of his chat with the ex-footballer: 'We needed to get wood for the campfire so Harry and I went down to collect some wood and we had one of the loveliest talks I’ve had in a long time.'

While Harry cheekily added: 'While John was having dinner with Cher I was with Sandra at the Two Puddings, I know who got the best of the deal.'

Oh dear: And while their meeting was romantic, Harry left his campmates in stitches when he recalled the 'nightmare' moment in 2017 he accidentally ran over his wife

Telling all: During his first challenge, which saw him in the passenger seat of a jeep, the sports legend said he used to consider himself 'a good driver' until the accident

And while their meeting was romantic, Harry left his campmates in stitches when he recalled the 'nightmare' moment in 2017 he accidentally ran over his wife.

During his first challenge, which saw him in the passenger seat of a jeep, the sports legend said he used to consider himself 'a good driver' until the accident.

He said: 'I used to think I was a good driver but I had a nightmare and ran over my wife one day.

Loving family: The couple went to have two sons; retired footballer Jamie, 45, (pictured with Harry) and Mark, 48, a model

'She got out the car and I thought she’d crossed the road. I pulled forward and she fell into the road, a bus stopped literally yards away and the most amazing part of the story probably, my granddaughter is sitting on top of the bus and sees all of this. Unreal.'

Sandra is the twin sister of footballer Frank Lampard’s late mother Patricia, who passed away in 2008.

Before Harry entered the jungle, he admitted being away from Sandra would be his biggest struggle.

He told The Sun: 'That’s the biggest problem I have got. We do everything together. I have been with Sandra for 54 years and I hate being away from her.'

Sweet: Before Harry entered the jungle, he admitted being away from Sandra would be his biggest struggle, he told The Sun: 'That’s the biggest problem I have got.'

====== 1312 ========

AMANDA HOLDEN, 47, SHOWCASES HER INCREDIBLE FIGURE IN A TINY GREEN BIKINI IN THE MALDIVES

She has jetted to the Maldives to celebrate her ten-year wedding anniversary with her husband Chris Hughes.

And Amanda Holden showcased her incredibly-toned figure in a green bikini as she posted a bikini-clad Instagram snap on Friday.

The Britain's Got Talent judge, 47, looked thoroughly relaxed as she lay on the seabed gazing at the sky in the tiny two-piece.

Stunning: Amanda Holden showcased her toned figure in a green bikini as she posted a bikini-clad Instagram snap on Friday as she holidays in the Maldives with husband Chris

The television personality seductively posed as she modelled the tiny triangle bikini top, which highlighted her washboard abs while the string bottoms made the most of her lithe limbs.

She captioned the snap: 'And #breathe #theplacetobeMaldives #secondhoneymoon #love'.

Amanda and Chris tied the knot in December 2008 at Babington House in Somerset - two years after welcoming their first child together; daughter Alexa (Lexi), 12.

Sun-worshiper: The television personality regularly litters her Instagram with bikini snaps (posting this one during her time in Corsica earlier this year)

10 years on: Amanda and Chris tied the knot in December 2008 at Babington House in Somerset

They are also parents to daughter Hollie, six - who they welcomed a year after Amanda's tragic stillbirth after falling pregnant with son Theo.

Amanda has since candidly spoken of the heartbreak she endured losing her son, admitting it was 'one of the most surreal moments of my life.'

Speaking about her loss in an interview on Giovanna Fletcher’s Happy Mum Happy Baby podcast recently, Amanda recalled the moment her son's heart stopped: 'They scanned my tummy... and it was one of the most surreal moments of my life.

'I remember hearing this woman screaming and shouting and I was thinking, "Where is that coming from?" And it was coming from me and I didn’t even know I was doing it.

Milestone: The Britain's Got Talent judge has jetted to the Maldives to celebrate her ten-year wedding anniversary with her husband Chris Hughes

'The obstetrician was trying to tell me that my baby's heart had stopped beating and was not alive anymore and I just was saying, "I don’t know what I’m going to tell Lexi," and this is the woman I could hear, screaming that. And I didn’t know it was me. It was the oddest, most awful thing.'

Adding to the pain was the fact that Amanda then learned that she would have to give birth to her son, just moments after learning he'd passed away.

'The weirdest thing was, I forgot completely that I would have to give birth,' she recalled. 'That’s the other thing. You go, "Oh my god I have... get this baby out of me. And I absolutely cannot do that..." I don't how I did that.

'The hours that followed were awful. I refused to have a natural birth, because I just thought I can’t do that, I need to have an operation and I need to get this baby out of me, and I was really cross and really heart broken and all the things.

'You just can’t imagine, I was absolutely scared to death and I kept saying to my midwives, "When he comes out, I don’t know if I am going to be able to hold him..." You know, I was so cross, scared to death.'

She continued: 'I remember Jackie [Amanda’s midwife] saying, "We are really struggling to pull him out of you, he doesn’t want to leave you," which was really sad.

'She held him in her arms and Chris left the room. He waited 'til right to the moment and said, "Mandy, I can’t you know I need to leave the room."

'And I respected anything he wanted to do, was totally fine by me, and he left the room and Jackie just described him to me and I just said, "I just need him, I’m still a mummy." It’s the weirdest sensation. And I just held him and he was perfect.'

====== 1313 ========

STRICTLY'S STACEY DOOLEY CUTS A CHIC FIGURE IN A BLACK DRESS AS SHE LEAVES IT TAKES TWO STUDIOS

She is one of the frontrunners on this year's Strictly Come Dancing.

And Stacey Dooley looked happy as she left the It Takes Two studios after an appearance on sister show It Takes Two on Friday.

The presenter, 31, looked stylish in a flowing black dress which cinched in at her toned waist

Chic: Stacey Dooley looked happy as she left the It Takes Two studios after an appearance on sister show It Takes Two on Friday

Pals: The presenter, 31, looked stylish in a flowing black dress which cinched in at her toned waist as she left with pro dancer AJ Pritchard

The star's hilarious appearance on the show saw her confess she hasn't washed her hair since the show's Blackpool extravaganza, six days ago, as she proudly proclaimed that 'it stinks'.

She paired her dress with leather loafers and accessorised with glittering gold jewellery.

Her flame-red tresses were slicked back into a ponytail while a radiant dusting of make-up enhanced her pretty features.

Appearing on the show alongside Kevin, the star candidly discussed her love for her voluminous curls in Blackpool, and her desire to preserve them.

Wow factor: She paired her dress with leather loafers and accessorised with glittering gold jewellery

Chic: Her flame-red tresses were slicked back into a ponytail while a radiant dusting of make-up enhanced her pretty features

Dance duo: The star's hilarious appearance on the show saw her confess she hasn't washed her hair since the show's Blackpool extravaganza, six days ago, as she proudly proclaimed that 'it stinks'

She said: 'That's why it's tied back like this, because it's so dirty. I just loved it so much.

'It stinks. It absolutely stinks,' she added.

Partner Kevin added: 'It smells of hairspray and bacon.'

Speaking about her nerves around Blackpool, she said: 'I never in my life thought I would be in this situation.

'The rock was 12ft-long, the ceilings are sky high. I felt anxious. I was so anxious.'

Staying clear of the shower: Appearing on the show alongside Kevin, the star candidly discussed her love for her voluminous curls in Blackpool, and her desire to preserve them

Glam: Lauren Steadman looked sensational in a glittery mini skirt

She was joined at the studios by pro AJ Pritchard, his partner Lauren Steadman as well as judge Craig Revel Horwood.

Stacey's first foray onto the dancefloor - a quickstep - earned a predominantly positive reception from the judging considering its difficult steps - and earned a score of 24 out of 40.

Stacey has been the presenter of numerous investigative documentaries for the BBC, and was awarded in MBE earlier this year for services to broadcasting

Dapper: Steely judge Craig Revel-Horwood was all smiles at the studio

Speaking about taking part in the show Stacey said: 'It's happening! I'm taking part in Strictly Come Dancing this year and my mother is going to explode.

'2018 has already been such an incredible year for me, I've done some amazing things and I'm excited to add 'becoming a dancing GENIUS' to the list!

'Typically, work for me is very serious and can be quite hard core so I'm going to soak up the escapism and bathe in the sequins. See you on the dancefloor!'

====== 1314 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: RITA SIMONS' OFF AIR RANT OVER NOEL EDMONDS' DEBUT

Noel Edmond's late entry to the camp caused quite a stir on I'm A Celebrity on Thursday night.

And Declan Donnelly revealed the 69-year-old Deal or No Deal presenter's jungle debut as Emperor, left Rita Simons somewhat disgruntled.

The ITV host, 43, said the ex-EastEnders actress, 41, launched into a huge rant after his big reveal, in scenes that never aired.

Not impressed: Declan Donnelly revealed Rita Simons launched into a huge rant after Noel Edmons made his dramatic entry as Emperor on I'm A Celebrity on Thursday night

Speaking on the spin-off show Extra Camp, Dec said: 'John (Barrowman) has already started to crack, and Nick (Knowles) is biting his lip. Rita wasn’t happy yesterday down at the trial.

'It wasn’t in the show tonight but when we were filming the trial, Rita had a go didn’t she?

'Noel and Harry were kind of talking amongst themselves, and she went 'weren’t you two listening?!' And we were like "woaah."

Tempers fraying: The Deal or No Deal presenter's jungle debut as Emperor, left Rita Simons somewhat disgruntled

Annoyed: The ITV show said the ex-EastEnders actress, 41, launched into a huge rant after his big reveal, in scenes that never aired

Noel instantly divided viewers as he was crowned the Emperor of camp during his regal arrival.

The television star quickly settled into his role as camp leader as he barked orders at his campmates - but his monarchical persona received a mixed reaction from fans, with some branding the Deal or No Deal host 'annoying' while others claimed he was TV gold.

But Rita found herself further irked by Noel during the Dingo Dollar challenge as she was forced to swim through a foul-smelling swamp with Malique Thompson-Dwyer to retrieve pieces of a jigsaw, for the presenter to put together.

Unhappy: Speaking on the spin-off show Extra Camp, Dec said: 'John has already started to crack, and Nick is biting his lip. Rita wasn’t happy yesterday down at the trial'

Furious: 'It wasn’t in the show tonight but when we were filming the trial, Rita had a go didn’t she?'

Both Harry and Noel told the cameras they were scared of Rita as tempers frayed when they struggled to form the puzzle.

Noel's appearance also caused friction in the camp, particularly John Barrowman who was told to stop scratching his groin.

After John stood up to ask Noel a question, the star asked John not to scratch his groin when he spoke to him.

Oh dear: The former Deal or No Deal host, 69, invoked the ire of actor John, 51, on his first day in the camp, as the 'emperor' accused him of scratching his groin

An incensed John said 'I'm not, I'm scratching my waist' to which Noel retorted 'either way it's unpleasant.'

Talking later in the Bush Telegraph, John let rip at Noel, as he said: 'I know he was trying to make a joke and be funny but it didn't land well with me and for that moment I'm probably being overly sensitive and it's at this exact time that my husband would say I need a sandwich.

'It's not his fault and I'm an adult, I know that, it was just that moment and some of us are feeling 'arhhh'.'

I'm A Celebrity continues at 9pm on ITV.

====== 1315 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY'S HARRY REDKNAPP THROWS TANTRUM AFTER GETTING SMACKED IN THE HEAD WITH A FOOTBALL

Harry Redknapp unleashed a furious, expletive-laden rant after getting smacked in the head with a football in a newly-resurfaced clip.

The football manager, 71, was being interviewed by the side of the pitch during a Portsmouth training session in the amusing throwback video.

A ball came flying through the air while he was chatting away to the camera, prompting the baffled ex Spurs boss to turn around and yell: 'Who was that? Why the f**k did you kick that over here?'

Fuming: Harry Redknapp unleashed a furious, expletive-laden rant after getting smacked in the head with a football in a newly-resurfaced clip

The sheepish voice was heard owning up the crime off-camera, explaining that he'd been aiming for the goal.

An enraged Harry replied: 'What? You tried kicking at the goal and you got me? You got some f***ing brains aintcha?'

He turned back around and the interviewer tried to ask the former West Ham and Bournemouth player another question.

But Harry couldn't contain his irritation as he muttered in earshot of the player: 'No wonder he's in the f**king reserves.'

Not impressed: The football manager, 71, was being interviewed by the side of the pitch during a Portsmouth training session in the amusing throwback video

Livid: A ball came flying through the air while he was chatting away to the camera, prompting the baffled ex Spurs boss to turn around and yell: 'Who was that? Why the f**k did you kick that over here?'

Harry is known for his fiery opinions, and recently lashed out at Gary Neville after the former football player branded Tottenham teams over the last 30 years 'spineless and soft'.

'Listen, I've got the raving hump, I really wouldn't want to speak to him to be honest,' he said in retaliation in October.

'I've got the raving needle with him, I think he's totally out of order, I really do.'

Despite his hardman persona, Harry melted hearts on Thursday night when he talked about his enduring love for his wife Sandra.

Sweet: It comes after he left his pals in tears on Thursday night as he talked about his enduring love for his 71-year-old partner on I'm A Celebrity

The football manager, who has been married to Sandra for 54 years, revealed he calls her 10 times a day and likened his relationship to 'winning the lottery'.

During a chat with Fleur East and Sair Khan, Harry, who has two sons with Sandra, said: 'Even when I'm out I ring her 10 times a day. She's my life. I'm a bit scared, getting a bit older. I love her too much, if anything happened it would just kill me.

'We just get on so well, I only want to be with her. I can never wait to see her. Jamie [his son] says "you've won the lottery".'

True love: The football manager, 71, who has been married to Sandra for 54 years, likened his relationship to 'winning the lottery'

====== 1316 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: HOLLY WILLOUGHBY COMPARED TO FRED FLINTSTONE THANKS TO YELLOW DRESS

She always looks preened to perfection on This Morning and has been impressing viewers with her edgier jungle style on I'm A Celebrity! too.

But Holly Willoughby suffered a rare fashion misstep in Friday's episode when she donned a £350 yellow floral dress and cowboy boots.

Unimpressed fans accused the 37-year-old of 'dressing in the dark' and even compared her quirky look to that of the beloved prehistoric cartoon, Fred Flintstone.

Seeing double: I'm A Celebrity: Holly Willoughby is accused of 'dressing in the dark' and compared to Fred Flintstone as she dons £350 yellow printed dres

'Holly seems to be channelling fred flintstone's dress sense tonight...and still looks great,' one user wrote on Twitter.

Another added: 'Holly Willoughby is magic, she’s ever the professional, comes across as a genuinely beautiful person inside and out and has a great sense of humour, BUT by f... is she wearing some strange outfits. Tonight's Flintstone attire has to be the worst so far!!'

'Did the airline lose Holly Willoughby's luggage? That's the only possible explanation for that combo,' a third viewer penned.

However, her eclectic look was a winner for other viewers, who gushed that she looked 'amazing'.

Oh dear: Unimpressed fans accused the 37-year-old of 'dressing in the dark' and even compared her quirky look to that of prehistoric cartoon, Fred Flintstone

'Holly!!! You look AMAZING! That booty! Her hips! My woman crush right now,' one user wrote.

'Holly's dress tonight. She looked amazing,' another added.

It's not the only time the I'm A Celebrity! presenters have stolen the limelight, as fans previously mocked Dec Donnelly for his unfortunately designed shirt.

Hmm: Holly suffered a rare fashion misstep when she donned a yellow floral dress and cowboy boots

Not impressed: Fans likened the dress' floral print to 'bats' and even 'crisps'

Fans went wild on social media over Dec's 'nipples' as he donned a navy shirt with two cheekily placed buttons over the chest area.

#Decsnips began trending on Twitter as the pair did the opening link from the bridge, with fans soon flocking to social media.

One wrote: 'Can't unsee #decsnips' while another added 'hilarious #decsnips'

Supportive: However, her eclectic look was a winner for other viewers, who gushed that she looked 'amazing'

Dedicated pet owner! Meanwhile, Holly took the time to FaceTime her cat from Down Under

Another added: 'I can't take my eyes off them' while another wrote: '

Blown away by the response online, a blushing Holly squealed: 'It’s a little nipply!' as Dec played up to the camera by tweaking the buttons.

Even Holly, 37, weighed in on the Twitter trend, writing 'can't unsee #decsnips'.

Dec's nips: Meanwhile, on Thursday all eyes were on Declan Donnelly's unfortunately designed shirt

====== 1317 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: EMILY ATACK CHEEKILY SUGGESTS SHE'LL 'S**T' IN NOEL EDMONDS' TENT

I'm A Celeb's Emily Atack joked she would take a dump in Noel Edmonds' luxury tent as she threw her support behind John Barrowman after that clash.

John, 51, and Noel Edmonds, 69, were caught in a furious war of words after the Deal or No Deal legend called out the actor on 'scratching his groin'.

Following the bitter fall-out of the fight, 28-year-old Emily made the very cheeky suggestion that she and John should 's***' on Noel's carpet.

I'm A Celebrity: Emily Atack cheekily suggested she'll 's**t' in Noel Edmonds' tent as she threw her support behind John Barrowman after THAT clash

The pair entertained the thought when they had a sneaky look around the game show host's special tent.

The funny scene, which didn't make the cut for I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here's main reality series, was shown on Extra camp.

The drama unfolded after John's husband hinted that the actor would clash with new arrival Noel as he rang into spin-off Extra Camp on Wednesday night.

And that prediction seemed to be coming true for John as he endured an awkward encounter with the presenting legend on Thursday's episode of I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!

The former Deal or No Deal host invoked the ire of actor John on his first day in the camp, as the 'emperor' accused him of scratching his groin as he delegated campmates duties.

Outrage: John, 51, and Noel Edmonds, 69, were caught in a furious war of words after the Deal or No Deal legend called out the actor on 'scratching his groin'

Noel had already ruffled feathers with his late arrival into the camp, with the star appointed Emperor and setting his fellow campmates to work in a Roman gladiators inspired challenge.

After John stood up to ask Noel a question, the star asked John not to scratch his groin when he spoke to him.

An incensed John said he wasn't scratching his groin and was not impressed with the comment.

Talking later in the Bush Telegraph, John let rip at Noel, after his sensational late arrival into the jungle.

Oh dear: The former Deal or No Deal host, 69, invoked the ire of actor John, 51, on his first day in the camp, as the 'emperor' accused him of scratching his groin as he delegated campmates duties

Rage: After John stood up to ask Noel a question, the star asked John not to scratch his groin when he spoke to him. An incensed John said he wasn't scratching his groin and was not impressed with the comment

He said: 'I know he was trying to make a joke and be funny but it didn't land well with me and for that moment I'm probably being overly sensitive and it's at this exact time that my husband would say I need a sandwich.

'It's not his fault and I'm an adult, I know that, it was just that moment and some of us are feeling 'arhhh'.'

This comes after John's husband Scott Gill hinted that the person most likely to rile up John will be the ex Noel's House Party host.

'Didn't land well with me': Talking later in the Bush Telegraph, John let rip at Noel, after his sensational late arrival into the jungle

At odds:This comes after John's husband Scott Gill hinted that the person most likely to rile up John will be the ex Noel's House Party host

Scott - who married John in 2013 after 20 years together - spoke to hosts Joel Dommett and Scarlett Moffatt about the Doctor Who star's time in camp so far, saying he's surprised how well he's taken to the camping side of things.

But the British architect then hinted that John will butt heads with Noel after he arrives in jungle, especially as the veteran presenter will expected to stir up the drama.

Asked whether there's anyone in camp that will irritate John, he said: 'Not yet. I think there may soon be.

'I don't know but I think he's really liking the balance of people in there, they're all meshing really well. When you throw something new into the mix it's always gonna stir, I don't know how he's gonna react to that.'

Controversial: John's husband Scott rang into sister show Extra Camp, where he hinted that the person most likely to irritate the Doctor Who star is yet to enter the jungle

Explosive: Fans will see Noel's dramatic arrival in the jungle on Thursday night, as he takes on the role of jungle emperor

Scott added: 'Noel's a big character, so there is the possibility they're gonna clash which makes for great telly! Sit back and see what happens.'

Fans will see Noel's dramatic arrival in the jungle on Thursday night, as he takes on the role of jungle emperor, pitting the other ten celebrities against each other as gladiators.

The 69-year-old legendary entertainer was confirmed as this year's late arrival on Tuesday, with bosses reportedly offering a £600,000 salary to sign him.

Glamorous: It comes as 2017 jungle champion Georgia Toffolo was on Thursday's This Morning to provide all the latest jungle gossip

It comes as 2017 jungle champion Georgia Toffolo was on Thursday's This Morning to provide all the latest jungle gossip.

The ex-Made In Chelsea star showed off her quirky sense of style in a silky cream ruffled blouse and gold snake necklace, teamed with skinny blue jeans and jeweled slippers.

With her blonde hair in effortless curls, Georgia showed off her pretty complexion in au naturelle makeup as she gave hosts Phillip Schofield and Rochelle Humes the I'm A Celebrity news.

====== 1318 ========

LAUREN GOODGER NAILS AIRPORT CHIC AS SHE TOUCHES BACK DOWN IN LONDON FROM BOOTCAMP STINT

She has been putting her body through its paces at a bootcamp overseas in Portugal in recent days.

And returning to London on Friday, Lauren Goodger cut a chic figure as she made her way through the terminal at Gatwick Airport.

The former TOWIE star, 32, was clad in an all-black ensemble while hiding behind a stylish pair of huge shades, as she touched back down on home soil after revealing she recently lost 6lbs in one week.

Stylish display: Lauren Goodger cut a chic figure as she made her way through Gatwick Airport on Friday, after touching back down in London from Portugal

Lauren caught the eye in her glamorous ensemble that paired together a plain black tee and form-fitting leggings that framed Lauren's curvaceous physique.

She sported a casual pair of trainers on her feet and covered up from the cold in a chic winter coat that boasted furry panels around the sleeves, collar and hem.

It came complete with a ruched belt that buckled together at the waist, highlighting Lauren's svelte frame, and no doubt kept the chill at bay, as she returned to her native Essex.

Chic: The former TOWIE star, 32, was clad in an all-black ensemble while hiding behind a stylish pair of huge shades, as she wheeled her case through the terminal

Glamorous: Lauren caught the eye in her glamorous ensemble that paired together a plain black tee and form-fitting leggings with a statement furry coat

Despite her travels, Lauren wasn't without her usual glamour and was seen with her brunette locks perfectly blow-dried and styled over to one side as they fell past her shoulders.

She sported immaculate make-up and accentuated her plump pout with a slick of gloss across her lips.

Lauren was seen holding onto her suitcase as she made her way through the terminal, having just returned from Prestige Bootcamp in Portugal.

The beauty had documented her time at the bootcamp on social media, where she was put through her paces with a number of training sessions including boxing, and told fans she had 'worked so hard' during the 7-day program.

Statement outerwear: Her coat came complete with a ruched belt that buckled together at the waist, highlighting Lauren's svelte frame

Her return to London came after Lauren was seen displaying her body transformation so far after upping her gym regime. She shared before and after photos with fans, as she revealed she lost 6lbs in one week last month.

Looking noticeably slimmer and more taut around the stomach, Lauren credited the Skinny Coffee Club for the 'amazing results' and revealed her considerable weight loss in just seven days.

Recently, Lauren has kept herself busy with her new business venture — a salon offering fake tans, brows and glamorous makeovers.

As well as turning her hand at being a make-up artist, the reality star reckons she has a gift for matchmaking people as she revealed she is launching her very own dating app.

Lauren announced on Instagram: 'Making my own dating app!!! Girls and guys keep eyes peeled! I'm going to find you (and me) love'.

Before and after: Lauren was seen displaying her body transformation so far on Instagram as she revealed she lost 6lbs in just seven days last month

Focused: Along with her fitness journey, Lauren has kept herself busy with her new salon business venture and revealed she is launching a dating app

It comes after she appeared to unveil her very own X-rated hook-up website called Lauren's Little Secret, which offers users naughty sex, uncensored photos and flirty messages with other members.

On Lauren's Little Secret, it offers users the opportunity of 'no strings attached' hook-ups and to keep it secret with the business not appearing on their bank statements, say if they already have a partner.

The website reads: 'Welcome to Lauren’s Little Secret, a casual site for adult dating. If you’re a big fan of Lauren Goodger you will love it here!

A source told The Sun: 'Lauren is always looking for ways to make some extra cash and she's convinced this project will earn her a fortune.'

Sultry: She appeared to unveil her own X-rated hook-up website called Lauren's Little Secret, which offers users naughty sex, uncensored photos and flirty messages with other members

The single star has been making the most of her freedom after her bitter split from her ex-boyfriend Joey Morrison. The reality star was devastated when she split from her jailbird beau in July, following a two year romance conducted while he was behind bars.

Joey was given a 16-year prison sentence for a violent offence, but was released after nine years.

After waiting for him, Lauren and Joey split close to his release date amid claims he sent a slew of x-rated snaps to other women from his prison cell.

Previously Lauren had dated Jake McLean from 2012 on and off but they parted ways for good in 2016, with her branding the romance 'toxic.'

Before this, Lauren had been engaged to TOWIE co-star Mark Wright, but they called off their engagement in May 2011, after just five months, but they had been dating for ten years beforehand.

====== 1319 ========

STACEY SOLOMON REVEALS HER CAR WAS STOLEN OUTSIDE HER HOME

Stacey Solomon revealed that her car was stolen recently from outside her family home in Essex on Friday's episode of Loose Women.

The panellists were discussing the recent reports surrounding Hartlepool, where a population of 90,000 only have ten officers on duty at a time.

To which Stacey, 29, revealed that her car had been stolen recently from outside her home after the thieves copied her electric key.

Scary: Stacey Solomon revealed that her car was stolen recently from outside her family home on Friday's episode of Loose Women

Yet the former X Factor star went on to claim that the police didn't have the time to look into her report and instead put it on file.

She said: 'Only recently my car was stolen from outside my home.

'I didn't realise how understaffed and what a small crime that was to the police, because when I called up and reported it they said they were just going to put it straight on file.

Terrifying: The panellists were discussing the recent reports surrounding Hartlepool, where a population of 90,000 only have ten officers on duty at a time

'Without CCTV on the road there was nothing they could do. That was it, no investigation. They immediately put it straight on file and said get in contact with your insurers.'

Stacey went on to reveal that the incident and the lack of response from the police has left her feeling imbalanced.

She continued: 'I was insured thank goodness and they didn't come into my house, thank God, but it's the feeling that someone is watching and the feeling that it's so easy for someone to walk up to your house and copy your electric car key.'

Stacey was then grilled by her panellists over what she meant by thieves copying her car keys, to which she replied: 'If it's close enough to them, outside of your house, they can get the technology to copy the same code as your key from inside your house and then get in your car and drive off.'

Worrying: Stacey went on to reveal that the incident and the lack of response from the police has left her feeling imbalanced

Sweet: Only recently, Stacey moved in with her boyfriend of two years, Joe Swash, and her two sons Zachary, 10, and Leighton, six

She added: '[It makes you think] if they couldn't have got my car, would they have broke into my house? It leaves you imbalanced!'

Essex police declined to comment when approached by MailOnline.

Only recently, Stacey moved in with her boyfriend of two years, Joe Swash, and her two sons Zachary, 10, and Leighton, six.

The Loose Women panellist and EastEnders actor, who began dating in 2016 after meeting on I’m A Celebrity in 2010, settled into their new home in Essex in October.

====== 1320 ========

STRICTLY JUDGE SHIRLEY BALLAS, 58 SHARES THE STORIES BEHIND HER FAVOURITE SNAPS

Celebrities share the stories behind their favourite photographs. This week, it’s the turn of Shirley Ballas, 58.

Strictly Judge Shirley Ballas, pictured, shares the stories behind some of her favourite snaps

1967: This is my father Andrew with my brother David and me when I was seven. Dad left home when I was young and it was my mother Audrey who raised us in Wallasey, Merseyside. He wasn’t there at all when I was growing up, and getting into dance, so I never knew what it was like to have a male influence in my life. After my brother David died in 2003, though, I did start to see him a couple of times a year

1973: Here I am with David Fleet, my first male dance partner. I used to wear fake tan, so at school all the kids picked on me, but I didn’t care. Until I was 13, I’d only done all-girl contests with my partner Irene Hamilton. She loved dancing but wasn’t as dedicated as me. I’ve always been married to the business – that’s probably why I haven’t had a boyfriend for three years

1976: I still owe a debt of gratitude to my dancing partner Nigel Tiffany’s family for taking me in at 14 until Nigel and I got engaged and moved to London two years later. He lived in Shipley, Yorkshire, and it was too far for me to travel on buses from Merseyside to train together, and my mum didn’t have a car. I loved doing competitions in Blackpool, because if you came in the top three you won a prize, such as an electric fire. Nigel is now my financial adviser

1978: I have big eyelashes glued on here for my first professional photoshoot in Manchester, organised by Sammy Stopford, my then dance partner and future husband. I’d left London and broken off my engagement to Nigel to dance with Sammy. I’d been working at a firm of solicitors in London and I thought my boss was being nice when he let me go to pursue my dancing dreams, but now I realise it was because I was an awful secretary!

1982: This was taken with Sammy Stopford at a dance contest in Canada. Even though Sammy could afford for me to have dresses made, there was an instinct in me that said, ‘I can do this myself.’ So I stitched the rhinestones on that dress myself, and on Sammy’s shirt, and I did my own headbands and make-up as well as decorating Sammy’s shoes. Just a year or so later, Sammy and I split up and I got together with my second husband, Corky Ballas from Texas

1986: Here’s proof we thought we were having a girl! Corky and I had decorated the room with pink things, thinking a baby girl Elizabeth would be coming home, but my beautiful boy Mark was born. I always say he came out doing the cha-cha-cha – and he’s now a professional dancer. My mother lived with me and Corky in Houston from when Mark was two until we returned to the UK when he was four, and continued to take care of him until he was 22 and left home. I’m so proud Mark was influenced by us all

1995: All our Christmas cards that year had this photo of Corky, Mark and me on them. Corky and I had had a very successful dance partnership, but our careers were coming to an end. Corky came from a rich family – his father invented a strimmer called the Weed Eater – but by the time we returned to the UK in 1990, business wasn’t going so well and money was tight. We had to start again from nothing, renting a flat in south London, and I would sit on the stairs in dance studios, waiting to take classes that other teachers couldn’t make it to

====== 1321 ========

VICKY PATTISON EXCLUSIVE: STAR OFFICIALLY SPLITS FROM FIANCÉ JOHN NOBLE FOLLOWING DUBAI BETRAYAL

Vicky Pattison has officially split from her fiancé John Noble, two weeks after he was caught getting close to a bevy of women on a lads' holiday.

Insiders exclusively revealed the news to MailOnline, as it was revealed that the 31-year-old former Geordie Shore star has decided to part ways with her beau after previously admitting she was 'heartbroken and humiliated'.

She is said to be 'concentrating on her busy work schedule' while trying to stay positive in the midst of the drama, which John has remained silent on, instead sharing a host of shirtless snaps on Instagram.

Heartache: Vicky Pattison has officially split from her fiancé John Noble, two weeks after he was caught getting close with a bevy of women on a lads' holiday

Sources revealed: 'Vicky and John are officially over. She is concentrating on her busy work schedule and surrounding herself with positivity, friends and family...

'It’s been a difficult couple of weeks but she is moving on with her life and looking forward to the future.’

Prior to the news coming out, Vicky took to Instagram to reveal she was suffering with anxiety on Thursday evening following a night out in London.

Vicky and John were first pictured together in the X Factor audience in October 2016, having already dated 10 years previously, when she was just 20.

Moving on: Insiders exclusively revealed the news to MailOnline, as it was revealed that the 31-year-old former Geordie Shore star has decided to part ways with her beau after previously admitting she was 'heartbroken and humiliated'

Shock: She is said to be 'concentrating on her busy work schedule' while trying to stay positive in the midst of the drama, which John has remained silent on, instead sharing a host of shirtless snaps on Instagram

Moving on: Vicky has maintained steely in the face of the controversy yet admitted she was feeling 'crippling' humiliation surrounding the scandal

After confirming their romance in November 2016, they went on to announce their engagement in July last year, when Vicky proudly flaunted her 3.6-carat marquise-cut diamond engagement ring before easing herself into wedding planning.

Vicky and John's ill-fated romance Around 2008: Vicky and John first enjoyed a brief romance October 2016: The couple were spotted together at The X Factor sparking romance rumours November 2016: After joining Vicky in Australia during her I'm A Celeb commitments, the couple confirmed their romance July 2017: The couple confirmed their engagement with a dramatic magazine spread where Vicky flashed her 3.6-carat marquise-cut engagement ring January 2018: Vicky revealed she had postponed their wedding 'by a year or two' as she 'wasn't ready to be a wife' despite having planned a lavish £175,000 ceremony this summer November 2018: Images surfaced of John getting close to a bevy of women during a trip to Dubai, before the official end to their relationship days later

News of the split comes after it was revealed the couple had began filming a bridal show just days before John headed on his fateful trip.

Despite the fairy-tale aspects of their romance, sadly things came crashing down earlier this month when John was exposed for his love rat ways when a number of images and videos came to light showing her beau mingling with other revellers.

To add to her heartache, the betrayal will see the end of the wedding lead-up show however it has been revealed she will tackle the programme solo.

Insiders told MailOnline: 'Vicky and John had a wedding special confirmed and started filming just a few days before John went on the boys' trip to Dubai.

'Obviously it was devastating for Vicky to have all this come out just after they started shooting. Vicky has decided to carry on filming with the crew. She's a professional and didn't want to let anyone down.

'It goes without saying it won't be a wedding show, but will follow Vicky on the next chapter as she bounces back from John's betrayal. She was excited to be starting wedding planning and looking at venues, but life has changed now.'

History: The pair first dated 10 years ago and rekindled their relationship in recent years, with John proposing to Vicky in July last year

Defiant: Far from weighing in on the situation, John has been sharing a number of saucy selfies on social media - undoubtedly to Vicky's shock

Vicky also scooped a number of other wedding-themed projects.

Prior to John's Dubai trip, Vicky had launched her inaugural bridal column with The Sun, while she also launched an Instagram page to follow her body transformation ahead of the big day.

The page, Vicky's Bridal Bod has not been used since November 8, just two days before the imagery of John partying with other women was unearthed.

What heartache? Vicky put on a brave face as she hosted an I'm a Celebrity segment on This Morning on Friday

High spirits: The star giggled incessantly with hosts Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford as she discussed the I'm a Celebrity stars' eventful first week

Onward and upwards: Vicky is seemingly throwing her self into work after confirming the split

Moving on: Prior to John's Dubai trip, Vicky had launched her inaugural bridal column with The Sun, while she also launched an Instagram page to follow her body transformation ahead of the big day

Happy days: Additionally, Vicky appeared on TLC's Say Yes To The Dress last year in a bid to find her perfect gown for the big day that never was

Put on hold: John's betrayal was not the first time the couple's romance was dragged to a halt as in January Vicky confessed she has postponed her wedding by up to two years

Additionally, Vicky appeared on TLC's Say Yes To The Dress last year in a bid to find her perfect gown for the big day that never was.

John's betrayal was not the first time the couple's romance was dragged to a halt as in January Vicky confessed she has postponed her wedding by up to two years because she doesn't feel 'ready to be a wife'.

She revealed her plans to tie the knot in a lavish £175,000 ceremony this summer, yet told OK! magazine she and John did not leave enough time to plan their perfect nuptials, and so have decided to delay the proceedings by 'a year or two'.

====== 1322 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY'S JAMES MCVEY 'BLAMES HIMSELF' FOR HIS MODEL GIRLFRIEND KIRSTIE'S INFIDELITIES

James McVey has finally lifted the lid on his relationship with his model girlfriend Kirstie Brittain, saying he blames himself for her infidelity.

The Vamps guitarist, 24, who has been with Kirstie for four-years, spoke about her betrayal at the start of their romance, saying he was too 'emotionally immature'.

It comes as the 23-year-old politics student took to Twitter to hit out at trolls after she was subjected to a barrage of abuse following James' revelation.

Honest: James McVey has finally lifted the lid on his relationship with his model girlfriend Kirstie Brittain, saying he blames himself for her infidelity

Pictures emerged back in 2014 of Kirstie kissing another man, but James has since assured they completely trust one another, with the reality star even planning on popping the question within the next six months.

He told The Mirror: 'In hindsight, I really, really feel for her, because she was 19, she'd never been in a relationship, and I'd just had a difficult kind of relationship with an ex girlfriend.

'I think it was that weird territory of I thought something more was happening than she thought, she was quite scared, and we weren't technically together.

Cheating: The Vamps guitarist, 24, who has been with Kirstie for four-years, spoke about her betrayal at the start of their romance, saying he was too 'emotionally immature'

'I jumped the gun, I was really excited, so I think I kind of was probably quite emotionally immature back then, and I really feel for her, because she got a lot of negative press around that, but we weren't even officially together.'

Kirstie took to Twitter after Thursday night's episode, after she was deluged with comments from trolls, as she wrote: 'Truly trying to block out the haters.

'I'm always trying to remember that personal lives are personal for a reason and all that matters is that you yourself knows what's right and who you really are - but these f***ers make it hard!!

Loved up: Pictures emerged back in 2014 of Kirstie kissing another man, but James has since assured they completely trust one another, with himplanning on popping the question soon

'I'm getting there, thank you for being kind.'

The blonde beauty is set to fly out to Australia next week to cheer James on as he battles with creepy-crawlies, snakes, rats, spiders and a whole host of challenges.

It comes after latest contestant Noel Edmonds shared his not-so-nice thoughts on the current contestants of the series.

Awkward! The 69-year-old TV presenter poked fun at James McVey (L) as he branded the singer 'vain', while claiming Anne Hegarty (R) has 'terrified creepy crawlies' during her appearance

The 69-year-old TV presenter poked fun at James as he branded the singer 'vain', while claiming Anne Hegarty has 'terrified creepy crawlies' during her appearance.

Starting off with his thoughts on the Vamps star, he said: 'If he could have a luxury item, it would probably be a caravan with a framed photograph of himself on the side.'

Noel also went for Anne, 60, who famously quit a mealworm-laden Bushtucker trail on Tuesday's episode.

Insisting that the creepy crawlies are afraid of her, the broadcaster added: 'I can absolutely guarantee that Anne Hegerty has terrified every spider, snake and cockroach within a hundred miles of here. I mean I’m terrified and I haven’t met her.'

Noel didn't hold back when it came to sharing his opinion on John Barrowman, stating: 'I think he is the self-styled queen of the jungle and I expect him to sit on the throne and dominate proceedings and we will all be his loyal subjects.'

The comedian also claimed Harry Redknapp 'might not be the greatest with outdoors because I've seen him driving too many range drivers and posh cars.'

====== 1323 ========

STRICTLY COME DANCING'S JOE SUGG AND DIANNE BUSWELL FUEL DATING RUMOURS

They have been at the centre of romance speculation since the dancer split from Emmerdale's Anthony Quinlan.

And Joe Sugg and Strictly Come Dancing partner Dianne Buswell fuelled dating rumours as they made a cosy exit from a London studio together on Thursday evening.

The YouTube star and professional dancer looked to be enjoying a low-key evening together as they stocked up on food after a long day of rehearsals.

More bonding: Joe Sugg and Strictly Come Dancing partner Dianne Buswell fuelled dating rumours as they made a cosy exit from a London studio together on Thursday evening

Dianne was casually clad in a black jumper and skinny jeans, with the Australian beauty giving her look some added pizzazz with the addition of a silver shearling jacket.

Joe mimicked her casual style in a beige hoodie and shorts, which he layered above thermal trousers for some extra warmth.

The dancing duo, who have struck up a close bond since meeting on the show, looked completely at ease with one another as they shared a chat and laughed at one another's anecdotes.

Joe and Dianne recently revealed they have been spending 13 hours together in training every day for their samba amid claims the pair are dating each other.

Hanging out: The YouTube star and professional dancer looked to be enjoying a low-key evening together as they stocked up on food after a long day of rehearsals

Dianne said on It Takes Two: 'It’s a very hard dance but we are working so hard we’ve worked from nine till ten everyday so far.

'So I have every bit of faith that Joe will deliver the goods, but we’re working hard so we’re doing very well.'

They have reportedly been growing closer and reports claim they are enjoying a secret romance following Dianne's split from Anthony.

Working hard! Joe and Dianne recently revealed they have been spending 13 hours together in training every day for their samba amid claims the pair are dating each other

More than friends? They have reportedly been growing closer and reports claim they are enjoying a secret romance following Dianne's split from Anthony Quinlan

It's been reported by The Sun that the pair often spent time at Joe's home together, with Dianne said to have stayed over a few times.

A BBC source told the publication: 'Joe and Dianne are keeping things low-key but they’re having a lot of fun. Everyone on set has noticed how close they’ve become.

'They’re definitely more than just friends. They are very fond of each other. They are hoping to stay in the contest for as long as possible and are trying to focus on dancing for now, but they’re seeing where things go.'

====== 1324 ========

EMILY ATACK WAS BULLIED AT SCHOOL FOR 'SHOWING OFF' FAMILY RELATIONSHIP WITH SIR PAUL MCCARTNEY

Emily Atack has revealed she was bullied at school after admitting she was related to Sir Paul McCartney, who is her grandmother’s cousin.

The I’m A Celebrity hopeful also spoke about how she was branded a sl***** for wearing makeup and fake tan, reported The Sun.

The Inbetweeners star, 28, discovered makeup earlier than her peers as she came from a showbiz family made up of actors and musicians.

Troubled times: Emily Atack has revealed she was bullied at school after admitting she was related to Sir Paul McCartney, who is her grandmother’s cousin

She added: ‘I looked different, so I was an easy target. I wore make-up and fake tan so everyone called me a sl***** and worse, even though I was really nice to everyone.

‘I was also accused of showing off about my family, which wasn’t true. It really knocked my confidence and it’s taken me until now to recover.’

The daughter of ex-Crossroads actress Kate Robbins, 56, also told about The Beatles legend’s caring nature.

Stunning: The I’m A Celebrity hopeful also spoke about how she was branded a sl***** for wearing makeup and fake tan

Famous family: The star's grandmother is a cousin of the Beatles icon

She said: ‘He is really big on family. These days I call him Paul, and he always takes an interest in what I am up to.’

Elsewhere, the English actress also had to deal with being sent death threats on Twitter before her time on I’m A Celeb, telling her it was 'time for her to leave this world'.

Emily contacted the police after she was sent a barrage of abusive tweets from a user named 'Jeff Jones'.

A message from Twitter account @jeffjon56599388 said: 'Emily its time 4 u to leave this world, ur last hours wnt be pleasant, it will achieve the objective.'

Radiant: The Inbetweeners star, 28, discovered makeup earlier than her peers as she came from a showbiz family made up of actors and musicians

Horrible: The English actress also had to deal with being sent death threats on Twitter before her time on I’m A Celeb

Disgusting: Emily contacted the police after she was sent a barrage of abusive tweets from a user named 'Jeff Jones'

Atack, who has also appeared on ITV’s Dancing On Ice, replied to her abuser: 'Prison for you'.

A Bedfordshire Police spokeswoman said at the time: 'I can confirm that we received a complaint reporting malicious communications and our investigations are ongoing.'

Meanwhile, during Thursday's episode of Extra camp, Emily joked she would take a dump in Noel Edmonds' luxury tent as she threw her support behind John Barrowman after that clash.

I'm A Celebrity: Emily cheekily suggested she'll 's**t' in Noel Edmonds' tent as she threw her support behind John Barrowman after THAT clash

John, 51, and Noel Edmonds, 69, were caught in a furious war of words after the Deal or No Deal legend called out the actor on 'scratching his groin'.

Following the bitter fall-out of the fight, Emily made the very cheeky suggestion that she and John should 's***' on Noel's carpet.

The pair entertained the thought when they had a sneaky look around the game show host's special tent.

====== 1325 ========

I'M A CELEB STAR NICK KNOWLES RECALLS HORROR OF BURNING HIS MANHOOD ON THE OVEN

He is in the snake-infested I'm A Celeb jungle, and Nick Knowles recalled the pain of burning his manhood before submerging it in a jug of Pimms in historic tweets.

The DIY SOS star, 56, live tweeted the painful moment when he charred his parts on the open oven door eight years ago in 2010.

Nick reminisced how he tried to soothe the pain with butter but when that didn't work he put his manhood in a pint of Pimms and ice.

Bizarre: I'm A Celeb star Nick Knowles recalled horror of burning his manhood on the oven before he submerged it in PIMMS in historic tweets

He penned in a series of historic tweets: 'Ow! Just singed the end of my Hampton when I accidentally touched it on the open oven door while putting the crumble in a preheated oven!'

The I'm A Celeb campmate informed his followers that he was talking about his manhood when he referred to the 'rhyming slang Hampton Wick'.

He later added: 'Hampton, as in rhyming slang, Hampton Wick, work it out!

Ow! The DIY SOS star, 56, live tweeted the painful moment when he charred his parts on the open oven door eight years ago in 2010

'Tried butter but now have relief with it in a pint of Pimms and ice! Phew.'

The unlikely accident happened when the presenter had been putting the crumble in the preheated oven.

In 2018, the television personality has now grafted as many as 125,000 followers on his Twitter platform.

Nick has been courting the attention since the reality star returned to our screens with I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here earlier this week.

Ouch: Nick reminisced how he tried to soothe the pain with butter but when that didn't work he put his manhood in a pint of Pimms and ice

An impressive feat! In 2018, the television personality has now grafted as many as 125,000 followers on his Twitter platform

As well as making his I'm A Celeb appearance, Nick has landed himself a chart-topping hit with his cover of Make You Feel My Love.

When Nick was at the top of the charts on Wednesday, Cheryl was perched at number 11 on iTunes.

The hunk has been enjoying musical success outside of the jungle, he's also been coming up trumps in the I'm A Celebrity challenges.

====== 1326 ========

SOPHIE ELLIS-BEXTOR SHOWCASES BABY BUMP IN SPARKLING PURPLE MINI DRESS

She is expecting her fifth baby in a little under two months.

And Sophie Ellis-Bextor was every inch the glowing mum-to-be as she attended Amazon's Home of Black Friday event in London on Friday.

The singer, 39, showed off her seven-month baby bump in a sparkling deep purple mini dress as she posed up, before taking to the stage.

Glow: Sophie Ellis-Bextor was every inch the glowing mum-to-be as she attended Amazon's Home of Black Friday event in London on Friday

Bumping along: The singer, 39, showed off her seven-month baby bump in a sparkling deep purple mini dress as she posed up, before taking to the stage

The sparkling sequin gown revealed the star's blooming stomach while also drawing the eye to her toned legs.

She teamed the dress with sheer tights and added height with black and gold heels.

The Groovejet hitmaker's brunette tresses were styled sleek and straight while her pretty features were enhanced with smoky shadow, fluttery lashes and a scarlet lipstick.

Looking in her element as she performed, the star wowed as she took to the stage at the glitzy event.

Hot mama: The sparkling sequin gown revealed the star's blooming stomach while also drawing the eye to her toned legs

Leggy: She teamed the dress with sheer tights and added height with black and gold heels

Stylish: The Groovejet hitmaker's brunette tresses were styled sleek and straight while her pretty features were enhanced with smoky shadow, fluttery lashes and a scarlet lipstick

Pose: Looking in her element as she performed, the star wowed as she took to the stage at the glitzy event

The Murder On The Dancefloor hitmaker who is due to give birth on January 11, married The Feeling bassist Richard Jones in 2005 and are parents to sons Sonny, 14, Kit, nine, Ray, six, and Jesse, two.

Sophie chose to casually drop her baby bombshell while promoting her new album, The Song Diaries, on Chris Evans' BBC 2 breakfast show in August.

Discussing her new music and release, Sophie left listeners stunned as she announced her album, The Song Diaries, will be released at the same time she is due to give birth:

'The album will come out around the same time as my fifth infant because I'm having my fifth baby. Mental!'

Looking good: The star looked sensational as she counts down the days to her baby

The former Strictly Come Dancing star admitted she doesn't yet know whether she'll be having a boy or a girl.

Chris asked the pop star if pregnancy and being a parent ever gets easier, given the number of her brood, with Sophie simply replying: 'No, I don't think it does.'

The songstress added she would 'bring her bubba' when going on tour.

Sophie and husband Richard met in her rehearsal room in 2002. She previously said of their romance: 'Our relationship was dramatic early on. We found out we were having a baby when we'd only been dating for six weeks.

'Then I gave birth two months early. So, comically, our baby was born when we'd only been going out for eight months.'

====== 1327 ========

ADVENTURER STEVE BACKSHALL ON THE BITTERSWEET JOY OF BECOMING A FATHER AFTER LOSING ONE OF HIS TWINS

Helen Glover already has a few gold medals. The highest-ranked female rower in the world, she’s a two-time Olympic champion, a triple world champion, quintuple World Cup champion and triple European champion.

Phew! It sounds like she deserves another gold medal, though – for being a rather epic wife.

Why? Because when her husband, the wildlife show presenter and adventurer Steve Backshall, sat down to talk to her about how his work would impact on the arrival of their first child, she didn’t throw a screaming fit.

Most women in her position would, he admits. Most famous for his BBC children’s series Deadly 60, which brings him face-to-face with venomous snakes and scorpions galore, Steve, 45, is fast becoming a more mainstream household name when it comes to adventuring and natural history broadcasting.

Some 12 years ago – long before he met Helen in 2014 – Steve set about trying to secure funding for a year-long round-the-world jaunt which would see him visit some of the most unforgiving terrains on the planet.

Steve Backshall's wife Helen Glover, pictured with their son Logan, had a difficult pregnancy - one that saw the couple lose one of the twins she was carrying

The adventurer, pictured, says parenting is more difficult than swimming with a great white shark - and admits that he has been reduced to a nervous wreck in the face of a crying baby

The audacious project finally got the go-ahead last year (it will be broadcast on the BBC and UKTV next year), just as Helen discovered she was pregnant, and with a difficult pregnancy too – one that saw the couple lose one of the twins she was carrying.

Logan, the surviving twin and their ‘miracle baby’, as his proud father puts it, was due in July, bang in the middle of the year that would see Steve hotfooting it from the Arctic to the jungles of Belize, via Oman and the Himalayas. All of which would rather spectacularly rule him out of nappy duty back home.

‘The timing couldn’t have been worse,’ Steve admits during a rare trip back to the UK.

‘I had been trying to get the go-ahead for this for 12 years, so it couldn’t have happened at a more difficult time. Helen and I sat down and had a frank and honest conversation about it and thank goodness she was completely behind me.

‘As an athlete herself, she understood that this has been my whole life’s work, working towards this, and to give up on it would have been crazy.’

There are advantages to having a wife with the mentality of an Olympic champion, it seems. ‘She absolutely knows about training goals, about working towards objectives and she totally understands. She said from the off she would do everything she could to try and make it possible.’

By giving the trip her blessing, though, Helen was signing herself up for sole parenting duties. What if she had said no, though?

‘I think if she had said that, then I would have had to take a raincheck,’ he admits. ‘There are some things that are more important than the job.’

Little Logan did indeed arrive in July, and while Steve managed to be home for the birth, he jetted off again just weeks later. Since then he’s been away for weeks at a time, missing the majority of Logan’s young life so far.

He’s just returned from a six-week trip to the rainforests of Central America. ‘When I left for that one he was ten weeks old, and when I came back he’d doubled in size,’ Steve says, the regret palpable in his voice.

‘But Helen has been quite pragmatic about it. She’s said that of all the times in his life for me to be away like this, this is the easiest because he’s too young to understand.

‘But for me it’s really tough. I’ve been really homesick. I was out in the jungle and all I could think was, “I miss my little man.” It was never like that before.

‘I’ve been doing expeditions for a living for more than 20 years and know all about what you have to go through psychologically to separate yourself from the modern world. This time it was different. I just missed home.’

Helen is a two-time Olympic champion, a triple world champion, quintuple World Cup champion and triple European champion, and hopes to get back to competing once Steve returns from his adventures

He also missed huge swathes of his baby’s development. ‘On these trips some of the crew find it easier that they can’t be in constant contact with home. It means that you can immerse yourself into the job.

‘I found it so hard, though, particularly because every day I knew that I was missing something new with Logan – a smile, a particular sound he was making for the first time.’

Today, he admits he isn’t entirely sure Logan recognises him as his father. ‘Well, he definitely knows Helen, no doubt about that.

‘I get lovely reactions from him – but a lot of other people get lovely reactions from him too. You want to believe that smile is for you and you alone, but at four months it’s way too early to tell.’

Suffice to say that the minute he landed this time, he was on Dad duty. ‘Yep. Straight off a plane, and handed a baby with the words “deal with that, change that nappy,”’ he admits.

‘It’s brilliant. And I’m completely into the idea of being a dad. If the opportunity arises for us to switch roles and let Helen get back into competition, then yes I’d take on the role of a stay-at-home dad. I’d be all over it.’

And he would genuinely embrace it if the roles were reversed? ‘I would do everything I can to make it happen. Just as she has.

‘It would involve spending more time at home, but there are lots of things I can do in this country that don’t involve that same level of travel.’

Interestingly, Steve admits that it would be more challenging than any of his previous adventures (quite an admission given that his usual adventures involve swimming with sharks and getting close to crocodiles).

‘Oh, much more challenging. Since Logan arrived, my respect for parents has gone through the roof.’ The man who seems to be fazed by nothing does admit that he has been reduced to a nervous wreck in the face of a crying baby.

‘It’s such a hard job, particularly when there are protracted fits of crying. As parents we’re comparatively lucky because he’s a pretty chirpy little chap, really.’ He sighs. ‘Parenting has got to be the hardest job in the world.’

All the more reason to bow down to Helen, who’s largely doing it on her own, albeit with help from family. ‘For my longer trips she’s gone down to stay with her family in Cornwall, but how she’s doing it is absolutely beyond me,’ he admits.

He said: 'I’m completely into the idea of being a dad. If the opportunity arises for us to switch roles and let Helen get back into competition, then yes I’d take on the role of a stay-at-home dad. I’d be all over it'

‘One of the big issues is that Logan doesn’t sleep much – just three hours a night. As an athlete, Helen was used to training hard, then getting a good eight or nine hours’ sleep.

‘Now, she’s not only getting by on three hours, but she’s still managing to find ways to train. She has Logan sleeping in his basket at the end of the rowing machine, and she does indoor bikes and free weights.

‘She’s phenomenal. She’s already got back to the figure and condition she had before. It’s a long way off her peak competing condition, but if she wanted to go back to professional sport, I’ve no doubt she could do it.’

Is another Olympic bid a possibility then? It certainly seems so. ‘It would have to be incredibly important to her. I mean to be able to win an Olympic gold, it has to be everything to you.

‘For the eight years she was working towards that goal, at London and Rio, there was nothing in her life apart from rowing. Now there is, so it would depend on her drive. We haven’t decided yet. Tokyo is too close, but we’re not ruling out Paris in 2024.’

Is there a hint here that little Logan has quenched his father’s famous wanderlust and turned him off the more high-octane adventures? ‘Not yet, but then the risks I take are very measured, and based on years of experience.

‘A lot of people think it’s insane to swim out in blue water with a great white shark, but my experience tells me I can do it safely. Other people might consider it mad, granted, but then I might think what they do is mad.’

The emotional upheavals of the past year have clearly been immense. He admits that the loss of Logan’s twin devastated the couple. The second baby died in the womb at 20 weeks.

‘It was late in the proceedings so we were already prepared for a life with twins – mentally, emotionally. That was what our life journey was going to be, then all of a sudden it was halted.

‘We’ve had contact with a lot of people since who’ve lost youngsters, at various stages, and it’s always an absolute tragedy, but in our case we had our little miracle to focus all our love and attention on. For that we are incredibly blessed.’

Logan, their ‘miracle baby’, as his proud father puts it, was born in July - just before Steve jetted off around the world for a year-long jaunt which would see him visit some of the most unforgiving terrains on the planet for a new TV series

Their lost baby will always be a part of their lives, he says. ‘We said a very fond and emotional goodbye down in Cornwall together. We are not going to forget, or pretend it didn’t happen.

‘It will always be a part of our lives, but from here it is about focusing on Logan. We are so lucky. So many people, even close friends and family, have been through the same thing but not had that wonderful bundle of joy at the end of it to focus on.’

Steve and Helen met at a Sport Relief event in 2014, married in 2016, and make the ultimate go-getting couple. While she has the gold medals, he’s no slouch in the achievement stakes either.

Aside from his TV trips, he has a black belt in martial arts, runs marathons and has written dozens of books. This year he also completed his PhD in the rather niche subject of the ‘venom construction of the Pleurodeles waltl’ – or the Iberian sharp-ribbed newt, to the rest of us.

They are pretty awesomely connected too; between them they seem to know everyone in the fields of sport, TV and exploration. In December, the couple are co-hosting a charity event called One Wild Night in conjunction with the Royal Geographical Society, raising funds for rainforest conservation.

Steve’s own childhood in Bagshot, Surrey, sowed the seeds for his passions of travel and natural history. He credits his parents, keen travellers (mostly thanks to the fact that they were both employed by British Airways), with instilling in him a love of adventure.

Logan will clearly be a little globe-trotter too. He made his first flight (to Scotland) when he was just a few weeks old.

And in January, Logan and Helen will join Steve on a trip to Australia, where he has a lecture tour. ‘That’s pretty frightening, the idea of a long-haul flight, but we’ll find out if he likes travelling,’ says Steve.

Ditto sport and nature. ‘If he’s not into those things then we will secretly be disappointed, but the thing about kids is that you have to let them find their own paths. If you try and create a budding young naturalist you will probably drive him into something completely different.’

Will Logan inherit either of his parents’ competitive zeal, though? Heaven forbid, says his dad. ‘God help us if he’s got Helen’s competitiveness,’ he laughs.

Steve and Helen will host One Wild Night at the Royal Geographical Society on 14 December to raise money for World Land Trust. For tickets and more information, visit pleasance.co.uk.

====== 1328 ========

NEWLYWEDS RHIAN SUGDEN AND OLIVER MELLOR LOOK SMITTEN AS THEY HOLD HANDS AT IVY RESTAURANT LAUNCH

They tied the knot in a blissful beach ceremony in Turkey in September.

And Rhian Sugden and Oliver Mellor enjoyed a romantic day out as they celebrated the launch for The Ivy Restaurant in Manchester with Brooke Vincent and a bevy of soap stars.

The newly-weds looked smitten as they held hands as they made their way to the trendy eatery side-by-side on Friday night.

Cute: Newlyweds Rhian Sugden and Oliver Mellor looked smitten as they held hands on the way to Ivy restaurant launch on Friday

Rhian looked stunning in a sleek blue jumpsuit which had a daring side slit to show off her toned legs.

The glamour model boosted her figure with a pair of gold platform heels, while she wrapped up warm in a khaki green longline coat.

Her blonde tresses were styled into glamorous waves, and she wore nude lipstick and she wore a generous amount of mascara for a dramatic look.

Party time: The couple joined Brooke Vincent and a bevy of soap stars at the event

Legs for days: Rhian looked stunning in a sleek blue jumpsuit which had a daring side slit to show off her toned legs

Staying warm: The glamour model boosted her figure with a pair of gold platform heels, while she wrapped up warm in a khaki green longline coat

Looking good: Her blonde tresses were styled into glamorous waves, and she wore nude lipstick and she wore a generous amount of mascara for a dramatic look

Oliver looked dapper as he donned a grey blazer over a black shirt which he teamed up with matching jeans and boots.

The former Coronation Street star completed his look with a black scarf, while he styled his raven locks into a sleek up-do.

Brooke also upped the glamour in a furry jacket which she donned over a white lace top and flared velvet star-spangled trousers.

She completed her look by stepping out in silver heels, while she kept her personal items with a small black handbag.

Handsome: Oliver looked dapper as he donned a grey blazer over a black shirt which he teamed up with matching jeans and boots

Dazzling: Brooke also upped the glamour in a furry jacket which she donned over a white lace top and flared velvet star-spangled trousers

Finishing touches: The Coronation Street star completed her look by stepping out in silver heels, while she kept her personal items with a small black handbag

Looking good: Brooke brushed on a slick of dark red lipstick and mascara for a pretty look

Rhian wed Oliver, 37, her boyfriend of six years, in a blissful ceremony by the Mediterranean sea in Turkey, with their close friends and family in attendance.

Guests were reduced to tears as Oliver's sister Kate read an emotional poem while the couple read their own vows.

The bride chose a gorgeous dress with a figure-hugging bodice in delicate white.

A simple silver pendant was the only bit of bling the low-key bride needed, while her blonde locks were styled into loose curls and pinned back with a glittering diamante hair clip.

Oliver proposed at a sold-out Manchester theatre in 2014.

Warm: Corrie star Katie McGlynn looked cosy in a white fluffy jacket which she wore over a printed shirt and leather-look skirt

Chic: Victoria Ekanoye, who starred in Corrie since 2017 looked stunning in a multi-coloured jumpsuit and quirky heels

Suited and booted: Hayley Tamaddon looked sharp in her mint green suit

Elegant: Former middle distance runner Diane Modahl looked chic in a white embroidered dress and nude pumps

Before she met Oliver, Rhian was involved in a scandal with Vernon Kay, with the starlet first coming to the forefront when she went public with several racy messages sent by the married TV presenter in 2010.

It was then revealed the pair had got back in touch in 2015, with Vernon sending hundreds of texts asking to 'reconnect' with the model.

After a break of six years, the busty blonde candidly and shockingly admitted that it felt like an 'old friendship coming back'.

The blonde beauty recently claimed however that she had been treated as 'the villain' in the light of the sexting scandal, while the radio host has had a career boost.

The 44-year-old was famously forced to make an apology to his wife Tess Daly on BBC Radio 1 following the sexting scandal.

Vernon went on to promise live on air that he would no longer contact Rhian or the four other women he had been caught messaging at the time.

Gothic look: The Pins looked striking in their punk chic ensembles

Stunning: Corrie star Bhavna Limbachia looked glamorous in black dungarees and a sheer floral shirt

Date night: English football coach Phil Neville was joined by his wife Julie at the party

Dapper lads: Alan Halsall and Simon Rimmer looked sharp in their smart attire

====== 1329 ========

STELLA MCCARTNEY EARNED HALF OF WHAT SHE TOOK HOME IN 2017

Stella McCartney is unlikely to find favour with Immigration Minister Caroline Nokes, who remarked this week that it was not ‘appropriate’ for anyone to be paid more than £1 million a year — ‘whatever business they are in’.

I can disclose that the fashion designer’s eponymous company rewarded her with £3.9 million last year. However, the sum represents little more than starvation wages for the 47-year-old compared with the £8.3 million she received the previous year, when the company’s profits were £9.5 million — just £500,000 more than in the latest accounts.

Stella McCartney's eponymous company rewarded her with £3.9 million last year

Oscar-winner Rachel Weisz captivated fans with her post-baby figure just three months after giving birth to her first child with James Bond star Daniel Craig.

However, the 48-year-old actress, who was once engagingly frank with the media, has become notably more guarded about her personal life since taking up with cantankerous Craig, 50.

Rachel Weisz attends the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences' 10th annual Governors Award

And now the Cambridge graduate seems to be becoming more reserved in her screen roles, too. Her film Disobedience, out next week, is based on a Naomi Alderman novel that describes a steamy affair between two Orthodox Jewish women.

However, the film sees Weisz and her co-star, Rachel McAdams, 40, wearing clothes as they canoodle.

Weisz’s spokesman declines to comment on a claim that she refused to appear in any nude shots. The actress had promised tantalisingly: ‘The sex scene is massively important and beautiful.’

Weisz and her co-star, Rachel McAdams, 40, wearing clothes as they canoodle

Spread-bet tycoon Stuart Wheeler is celebrating some good fortune in his family.

The former Tory donor has a new grandchild after his model daughter Jacquetta gave birth to a girl on Tuesday.

She and her hedge fund manager husband Jamie Allsopp, cousin of TV’s Kirstie, have called her Edie.‘Mother and daughter are absolutely fine,’ says Stuart — whose wife, photographer Tessa Codrington, died in 2016. He tells me: ‘Tessa would have been delighted. She is a very nice-looking baby and I’ve suggested she should begin her modelling career about now.’

Jacquetta Wheeler attends a drinks reception at the British Fashion Awards in 2015

Former Tory donor Stuart Wheeler is celebrating some good fortune in his family has he welcomed a new grandchild after his model daughter Jacquetta gave birth to a girl on Tuesday

Who says it’s all sex, drugs and rock’n’roll? Roxy Music founder member Andy Mackay’s latest project involves setting Psalms to music.

Mackay, 72, who worships at St Anne’s in London’s Soho and co-wrote Roxy hits including Love Is The Drug, tells the Church Times: ‘There is a certain amount of militant atheism that is still quite fashionable . . . but reactions to the piece have been incredibly good.’

Flame-haired crooner Mick Hucknall, who called his band Simply Red after his mane, is considering a name change. ‘I should probably think about changing it to Simply Grey,’ admits Hucknall, 58.

The Mancunian, whose exes include Danish supermodel Helena Christensen, Hollywood star Catherine Zeta-Jones and Lady Victoria Hervey, has been quoted as saying he slept with more than 1,000 women a year.

‘I’d never talk about that kind of thing,’ insists Hucknall, who has an 11-year-old daughter with his wife, Gabriella. ‘What I actually said, reflecting on those early years, was that it felt like I was sleeping with three women a day.’

The smart set seem to live their lives on social media these days, but is everything all it seems?

Society figure Immy Waterhouse — sister of model Suki — admits she faked a party scene on her Instagram account, which has 95,000 followers, after forgetting to fulfil her promise to the company that provided free booze.

‘We got so wasted that we forgot to take the picture,’ Immy confesses at the opening of fashion label Maje’s store in Regent Street.

‘So we recreated the night and pretended.’

Well, Immy is an actress . . .

====== 1330 ========

ABBEY CLANCY SHOWS OFF HER SARTORIAL PROWESS AS SHE DOES SOME BLACK FRIDAY SHOPPING IN LONDON

She has forged a career as a model and television presenter as well as being a mother to three adorable tots with footballer husband Peter Crouch.

Yet Abbey Clancy took time out from her busy schedule for a spot of Black Friday shopping in London's Chelsea as she cut a casual figure in an all black ensemble.

Shortly before her outing, the blonde beauty, 32, candidly confessed that pregnancy caused everything to go 'wrong' with her usually flawless appearance.

Chic: Abbey Clancy took time out from her busy schedule for a spot of Black Friday shopping in London's Chelsea as she cut a casual figure in an all black ensemble

Abbey was sure to show off her lithe frame in the ensemble as she strutted her stuff with the loose sillouhette hanging loosely off her famously flawless frame.

The former Strictly Come Dancing champion paired the sleek ensemble with on-trend snakeskin boots to add a touch of detail to the otherwise muted look.

Dressing for the winter chill, Abbey added a winter coat, while she proved her sartorial prowess yet again by adding a simple black handbag to the look as she teetered through the exclusive district.

It comes as Abbey candidly revealed that her three pregnancies caused everything to go 'wrong' with her appearance.

On trend: Shortly before her outing, the blonde beauty, 32, candidly confessed that pregnancy caused everything to go 'wrong' with her usually flawless appearance

Gone wrong: Abbey said her three pregnancies caused everything to go 'wrong' with her appearance (pictured in 2015 while pregnant with daughter Liberty)

The Britain and Ireland's next top model presenter shares Sophia, seven, Liberty, three, and ten-month-old son Johnny with husband Peter.

She confessed it has not been a smooth ride, as she admitted to suffering a variety of different problems, including acne and hair loss, during her pregnancies.

The model told OK! Online: 'It was really scary - every time I got a shower, there was just clumps of hair coming out...

Doting mum: Abbey took time out from her busy work schedule to treat her three children with a trip to Disneyland Paris last week

'Every time I brushed my hair, it would fall out. It happened throughout my pregnancy, and after giving birth. I was just thinking 'when is this going to stop? Am I going to be left with any hair?

'It was scary, but the things we go through to have our lovely babies. You'd give your whole head of hair to have a healthy baby. But for anyone, hair loss can be a very scary thing.'

Abbey also revealed her pregnancies caused her skin to breakout in spots.

Sweet: The Britain and Ireland's next top model presenter shares Sophia, seven, Liberty, three, and ten-month-old son Johnny with husband Peter

She said: 'I really suffered in my pregnancies, and everything that could go wrong with your appearance, did...

'Obviously my hair fell out, then my skin just went mad and I was covered in spots - but literally as soon as the baby came out, my skin cleared up...

'The tough thing is, you can't use a lot of products when you're pregnant, because everything has to be natural...

Bombshell: Abbey showed off her incredible post-baby body in a maroon bikini as she told MailOnline she's thinner now than before she had kids

'I got really bad pigmentation, and all the treatments that combat that you just can't use during pregnancy...

'When I had bad acne, all of the LED lights or peels or anything like that, you can't use. You have to ride it out...

'That's on top of morning sickness which can last 24 hours a day for nine months - so it can get on top of you when you're spotty with no hair and feel sick all day!'

Alongside her pregnancy confessions, she recently exclusively told MailOnline that she's thinner now than before she had kids.

Speaking about her body hang-ups, she said: 'I don't like my stomach. I think after having children and getting older your body changes...'

Meeting the characters: The family posed with Daffy Duck during their trip

'I'm thinner than before I had children but my skin is not what it was before after being stretched to oblivion. I would like younger skin. I think when you feel tired you feel down on yourself.'

While her sensational good looks are the focus of her career, she admits there are elements she would change - although she says husband Peter would oppose any plans.

She said: 'Beauty has changed so much it's not just about putting on creams now. Times have changed so much and you just look at the Hadids and Kendall Jenner and all the stuff the young people are having done.'

====== 1331 ========

KATE SILVERTON TELLS HOW STRICTLY'S PUNISHING ROUTINES HAVE HELPED HER DROP TWO SIZES

Kate Silverton has little truck for the Curse of Strictly.

She prefers to think of her nine weeks on the BBC show as weaving 'marriage magic'.

The other day her husband, former Royal Marine Mike Heron, grabbed her by the waist and said: 'Babe, you look incredible.'

And then? 'I'm loath to talk about that,' the sylph-like newsreader says with a grin.

Today the 48-year-old's silk blouse is unbuttoned to the cleavage, while the skinny leg corduroy trousers that she hasn't been able to get past her thighs for the best part of six years now sit loosely on her hips.

Kate Silverton has dropped two dress sizes since appearing on Strictly three months ago (left). She says the show's strict routines have fast-tracked her to a slender physique (right)

When we met little more than two months ago she was ... well, let's just say a good sight heftier.

When she shook her stuff in her sensible pleated skirt to show to me her pre-Strictly dance moves you couldn't help but think she'd be lucky to make it through her first cha-cha-cha let alone to the iconic Blackpool Tower Ballroom.

Last Saturday Kate did just that with her dance partner Aljaz Skorjanec, inspiring many who have watched her transform over the weeks.

'I have gone down two dress sizes,' she said. 'It has been so rewarding – I feel fitter and healthier. I can fit into my wedding dress, which is just heaven.

'About two weeks ago I took it out of the attic thinking, 'I just wonder...' That was probably when I felt at my best. I shouted, 'Come on everyone, look at Mummy!' The kids [Clemency, seven, and four-year-old Wilbur] were, 'What are you doing?' Mike was like, 'Wow'.

The other day Kate's husband, former Royal Marine Mike Heron, above, grabbed her by the waist and said: 'Babe, you look incredible.' And then? 'I'm loath to talk about that,' the sylph-like newsreader says with a grin

'Basically, I'm back at my pre-baby weight. Mike thinks it's fantastic.'

Always an athletic woman, she swam regularly until children, a career and running a home left her little time.

'Any mum will relate to that,' she said. 'You think, 'I just won't get into a bikini again and I won't get to a place where I can walk around in front of my husband'.' Does she now? Again, she grins.

'It's nice to have this week when the children are at school and Mike's not travelling so we can go out on a lunch date,' said Kate, who lost in last week's dance-off to cricketer Graeme Swann. 'There is an element of getting ourselves back as a couple and we're celebrating that.'

During her time on Strictly she missed her children desperately. 'Although I tried to do the school run, I was away all Friday and Saturday,' she said. 'I knew they were old enough to cope with the separation but even so... My time as a mum is so much more precious to me than anything else.'

She added: 'Strictly was lovely ... I had a really good stint. I thought we were going to go [last week]. The judges had put us in the bottom two each week so I felt we'd been dodging the bullet.

'My mantra has always been to leave the party when you're having fun so I felt it was a good time to go. My only sadness is my Argentine tango.'

When she shook her stuff in her sensible pleated skirt to show to me her pre-Strictly dance moves you couldn't help but think she'd be lucky to make it through her first cha-cha-cha let alone to the iconic Blackpool Tower Ballroom with dance partner Aljaz Skorjanec

Three weeks ago, the day before the live show, a muscle in her rib cage 'popped' during rehearsals. She needed gas and air to ease the pain.

She soldiered on but the marking for her tango was low. Now, she says philosophically: 'It's a television programme. I've lived enough of a life to face lots of challenges, as many people have.'

Kate had five years of failed IVF attempts after meeting Mike 12 years ago, and had all but resigned herself to never having children when Clemency was conceived naturally two years after they married.

She lost her father Terry to cancer 'a few years back' and her best friend Jamie to pancreatic cancer when she was 26.

'It was Jamie who made me go into journalism. I was working in corporate finance but was rubbish at figures. I remember him lying there, hooked up to his medication saying, 'I don't have long – you need to live your life loving every minute of it'.'

The day after he died she picked up the phone to the BBC.

Now, she said: 'I don't make decisions any more based on fear. When I accepted Strictly I did it for joy.

She prefers to think of her nine weeks on the BBC show as weaving 'marriage magic'. During her time on Strictly she said she missed her children desperately

'On the first show in that red dress, which was like a hankie, I thought, 'This is how I look. I am a woman of 48 who has had children late in life'. It wasn't in a self-pitying way but in a 'Thank God for my body' way. I'm really proud of what my body's been able to do.'

The psychology graduate is now researching a series on children's mental health and is to train with a charity as a children's counsellor in the new year.

'My work in childhood trauma next year is my ultimate focus,' she said.

'The person people saw on Strictly wearing a pink dress and being giddy was not there because she hasn't had it tough. I just want to demonstrate that whatever people face, we can heal and then we can help others to do the same.'

====== 1332 ========

CELEBS GO DATING EXCLUSIVE: MEGAN MCKENNA 'SET TO COMPLETE LINE-UP'

They called time on their romance in October 2017 after a string of fiery rows - which were well-documented on The Only Way Is Essex.

And exes Megan McKenna and Pete Wicks will reportedly be forced to come face-to-face in the most awkward capacity as a source told MailOnline she is the secret final contestant.

A source previously said: 'A country singer is set to complete the line-up for the forthcoming series, which also includes Kerry Katona, Chelsee Healey and Georgia Steel.'

On the lookout for love! A source told MailOnline Megan McKenna is rumoured to be the last celebrity to sign up for the forthcoming season of Celebs Go Dating, meaning the beauty will reunite with ex Pete Wicks

The line-up means that not only can viewers look forward to watching Megan attempt to find love with a handsome new suitor, but there could also be fireworks between the TV personality and her ex following their acrimonious split last year.

And the pair haven't been the most amicable of exes. Shortly after striking up a romance with Shelby Tribble, Pete revealed his new flame had banned him from contacting his ex and even went as far as to label Megan 'irrelevant'.

However Pete, 30, has been back on the market since ending his relationship with Shelby in September, while Megan broke up with Love Island star and Celebs Go Dating alumni Mike Thalassitis for the final time in July.

Could there be fireworks? Megan and Pete called time on their romance in October 2017 after a string of fiery rows - which were well-documented on The Only Way Is Essex

Ahem! Megan and Pete dated on and off from April 2016 to October 2017

Following the success of the current series, featuring stars including Chloe Sims and Olivia Attwood, E4 bosses have are said to be 'really happy' with the next line-up afer managing to scoop a number of big names.

There will also be a revamp among the dating experts as life coach Anna Williamson will join Paul Carrick Brunson as a matchmaker on the show.

Speaking ahead of her debut, Anna enthused: 'I am so excited to be joining Paul and Tom in the Celebrity Dating Agency. I’ve been a big fan of the show since it launched.

All-star: Kerry Katona, Chelsee Healey and Georgia Steel have also joined the line-up for the forthcoming series (left-right Ibiza Weekender head rep David Potts, Kerry, Chelsee, Sam Thompson, Georgia and Pete)

'Celebrities are known for not being backwards in coming forwards in their work life, however being unlucky in love seems to be the common theme amongst many of the celebrities I've met throughout my career.

'I’m looking forward to taking them under my wing, dishing out some tough love where needed, and making changes to help them bag the date of their dreams - and this time, keep hold of them!'

Speaking ahead of the series, former Atomic Kitten star Kerry said: 'I’ve never done anything like this before. If what I’ve been doing before hasn’t been working I may as well try something new!

Her girls: Kerry has five children, Molly, 17, and Lilly-Sue, 15, (right-left in 2016) from her first marriage to Westlife star Brian McFadden. She also has, Heidi, 11, and Max, 10, from her second marriage to cab driver Mark Croft. While the youngest of the brood, Dylan-Jorge, four, is shared with ex-George Kay

'I’ve been on dating apps but to be honest they didn’t work. I’m so excited to be joining the agency and see who Anna and Paul set me up with!'

Kerry is undoubtedly the biggest signing to the show, with her chequered romantic history set to delight audience members following her many tried and failed stabs at love.

Speaking in a teaser clip for the show, self-deprecating Kerry said: 'Hi it's Kerry, I'm a serial marriager and divorcer. And I have come on here to start dating because I have actually never done the dating scene!...

Here he is! Following the success of the current series, featuring stars Chloe Sims and Olivia Attwood, sources tell The Sun that scooping celebrities such as Kerry means the show will boast a revamp

'I tend to meet men, fall in love, get offered a paycheck from OK Magazine, marry them, get pregnant, pop a baby out and divorce them and it's not worked out too well!'

Kerry's signing comes after she called it quits with her toyboy Ryan Mahoney, 29, after four months together.

The couple, who first started dating in June, called time on their relationship after a 'make-or-break' Thailand trip. Sources said: 'Kerry and Ryan decided to end their relationship after they landed back in the UK from Thailand...

'It was a make or break holiday and they wanted to get away to discuss their future and whether they wanted to be together. They looked happy in pictures, but that wasn't a true reflection of what was really going on.'

Kerry has five children, Molly, 17, and Lilly-Sue, 15, from her first marriage to Westlife star Brian McFadden. She also has, Heidi, 11, and Max, 10, from her second marriage to cab driver Mark Croft. While the youngest of the brood, Dylan-Jorge, four, is shared with ex-George Kay.

Here she is! Georgia will be returning to screens in yet another stab at love, following her divisive stint on Love Island over the summer, where she was mirthlessly mocked for her self-professed 'loyalty'

He's back! Returning to the show will be Made In Chelsea star Sam Thompson who is having his second stab at love on the show, following his first stint earlier this year - where he was unsuccessful in his hunt for love

Georgia will be returning to screens in yet another stab at love, following her divisive stint on Love Island over the summer, where she was mirthlessly mocked for her self-professed 'loyalty'.

Returning to the show will be Made In Chelsea star Sam Thompson who is having his second stab at love on the show, following his first stint earlier this year - where he was unsuccessful in his hunt for love.

Speaking about the show, Sam said:I’ve had a rough old run in the love stakes so I’m back to my spiritual home at the dating agency! It’s about time I got lucky in love, so let’s see if this time round I can find that special someone!'

Ibiza Weekender head rep David Potts is also on the prowl as he hopes to find love on the show.

Mummy's looking for love! Kerry is undoubtedly the biggest signing to the show, with her chequered romantic history set to delight audience members following her many tried and failed stabs at love (pictured with Dylan Jorge)

Happy days: Ibiza Weekender head rep David Potts is also on the prowl as he hopes to find love on the show

====== 1333 ========

KERRY KATONA SHOWS OFF HER ABS IN WORKOUT GEAR AFTER SIGNING UP FOR CELEBS GO DATING

She's been announced as the latest signing for Celebs Go Dating.

And Kerry Katona proved confidence won't be an issue in her quest to find love as she slipped into some revealing workout gear and showed off her toned figure on Instagram on Friday.

The former Atomic Kitten singer, who has become a serious fitness enthusiast, flashed her rock hard abs in a crop top and leggings ahead of a morning yoga session.

Ab fab: Kerry Katona proved confidence won't be an issue when she stars in Celebs Go Dating as she slipped into some revealing workout gear and showed off her toned figure on Instagram on Friday

Kerry offset her tanned complexion in a white crop top with pink straps, while black high waisted leggings with pink and white panels added to her stylish workout wardrobe.

The TV personality chose to forgo make-up for the snaps and left her blonde tresses to cascade in a naturally straight style around her face.

'@outfitt_co thank you soooo much for my workout gear!! Perfect for my morning yoga,' she captioned the snaps that were taken in what appeared to be a hotel room.

Toned: The former Atomic Kitten singer has undergone a complete body transformation since 2017 and has seriously shed the pounds [pictured right in October 2016]

Top of the crops! Kerry flashed her rock hard abs in a crop top and leggings ahead of a morning yoga session

The shots came shortly after Kerry was confirmed for this year's Celebs Go Dating, with the singer enthusing: 'I’ve never done anything like this before. If what I’ve been doing before hasn’t been working I may as well try something new!

'I’ve been on dating apps but to be honest they didn’t work. I’m so excited to be joining the agency and see who Anna and Paul set me up with!'

Kerry is undoubtedly the biggest signing to the show, with her chequered romantic history set to delight audience members following her many tried and failed stabs at love.

Speaking in a teaser clip for the show, self-deprecating Kerry said: 'Hi it's Kerry, I'm a serial marriager and divorcer. And I have come on here to start dating because I have actually never done the dating scene!...

Natural: The TV personality chose to forgo make-up for the snaps and left her blonde tresses to cascade in a naturally straight style around her face

'I tend to meet men, fall in love, get offered a paycheck from OK Magazine, marry them, get pregnant, pop a baby out and divorce them and it's not worked out too well!'

Kerry's signing comes after she called it quits with her toyboy Ryan Mahoney, 29, after four months together.

The couple, who first started dating in June, called time on their relationship after a 'make-or-break' Thailand trip. Sources said: 'Kerry and Ryan decided to end their relationship after they landed back in the UK from Thailand...

'It was a make or break holiday and they wanted to get away to discuss their future and whether they wanted to be together.

'They looked happy in pictures, but that wasn't a true reflection of what was really going on.'

Kerry has five children, Molly, 17, and Lilly-Sue, 15, from her first marriage to Westlife star Brian McFadden. She also has, Heidi, 11, and Max, 10, from her second marriage to cab driver Mark Croft. While the youngest of the brood, Dylan-Jorge, four, is shared with ex-George Kay.

Chelsee Healey, Pete Wicks and Georgia Steel are also on the bill.

Looking for love: The shots came shortly after Kerry was confirmed for this year's Celebs Go Dating

====== 1334 ========

BEN SHEPHARD FIGHTS BACK TEARS AS HE WATCHES £50 CHRISTMAS FILM

Ben Shephard fought back tears after watching a viral Christmas video which has been hailed by fans as better than the John Lewis advert.

The short film called Love is a Gift by Phil Beastall, which was made for under £50, was shown on Good Morning Britain on Friday and caused the presenter, 47, to well up.

‘I'm going again, I've just done it again! Phil what have you done to me,’ the host asked before Kate Garraway told the 32-year-old filmmaker from Gloucestershire: ‘We both started crying and we are hard as nails.’

Emotional: Ben Shephard fought back tears after watching a viral Christmas video which has been hailed by fans as better than the John Lewis advert

The short fictional tale racked up more than six million views on Facebook this week after Phil posted it in response to the store's big-budget production.

The clip shows a man - played by actor Chris Ilston - ticking off the days to Christmas, seemingly in anticipation of festivities and presents.

Instead, on the day, he opens up a cassette box - an annual tradition - and listens to a tape of his tragic mother's final Christmas message from beyond the grave.

Close to tears: The short film called Love is a Gift by Phil Beastall (left), which was made for under £50, was shown on Good Morning Britain on Friday and caused the presenter to well up

Talking about his reasons for making it, Phil told the presenters: ‘It was a last minute decision really, I was a frustrated filmmaker and I really wanted to get a film out there.

‘I really wanted to create something that resonated with people because especially in today's society we need a reminder that we are not just defined by our career, and family does come first."

He added: ‘I wanted to make something that makes them hug their dads, wives or their family.’

Much loved: The short film racked up more than six million views on Facebook this week after its creator, Phil Beastall, posted it in response to the store's big-budget production

Excited: The clip shows a man - played by actor Chris Ilston - ticking off the days to Christmas, seemingly in anticipation of festivities and presents

Speaking about the first time he watched the video back, he continued: ‘I remember when I had the first edit together and I played it for the first time.

‘The hairs on the back of my neck stood up and I welled up myself. Since then it's always the film I speak most proudly of.’

Since the emotional tale went viral, Mr Beastall has been inundated with messages from fans who claim the video could have been used instead of the expensive Elton John-themed John Lewis advert.

‘I've just been so distracted on my phone, getting all these notifications from people saying it's better than the John Lewis advert which is the ultimate compliment,’ Phil explained.

Tear-jerker: Instead, on the day, he opens up a cassette box - an annual tradition - and listens to a tape of his tragic mother's final Christmas message from beyond the grave

Touching: Mr Beastall, from Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire, made the video in 2014 but was inspired to share it again now after seeing the Elton John advert on TV

‘From people who have lost loved ones recently, saying it's allowed them to cope better. Parents saying they've given their kids an extra squeeze, I've cried,’ he confessed.

When asked by Kate if the company had called to offer him a job yet, the creator revealed: ‘Not yet, where is my call!’

While the highly-anticipated John Lewis advert cost £7million to create, Love is a Gift was done on a budget-friendly £50.

Big spender: While the highly-anticipated John Lewis advert cost £7million to create, Love is a Gift was done on a budget-friendly £50

But Phil revealed on the morning programme that in fact the film cost a little less.

He said: ‘I must admit it cost a bit less. It was just the fuel to get to where Chris lived, we used Christmas decorations we already had, and maybe lunch was a tenner.

The father-of-three added: ‘Chris had a Walkman, he went into the attic and a little spoiler, if you do watch closely the Walkman doesn't work!’

====== 1335 ========

OLA JORDAN STOPS SEXY CALENDARS AS HUSBAND JAMES AGREES 'LEAVE IT TO THE YOUNGER STARS'

She recently revealed she won't be posing for any more sexy calendars, leaving many of her fans disappointed.

But explaining her decision to give up her annual sultry shoots, Ola Jordan exclusively told MailOnline that she feels her 'time is up' when it comes to stripping down for the camera.

The Strictly Come Dancing star, 36, insisted that you need to be aware of when to pull the plug on certain things, with her husband James, 40, agreeing and claiming she should leave it to 'younger stars' instead.

'You need to know when it's your time': Ola Jordan, 36, exclusively told MailOnline that she feels her 'time is up' when it comes to stripping down for her annual calendar shoots

Ola made the admission at the start of November where she confessed she now feels 'too old' to release the annual stocking filler, which usually see her in an array of scantily-clad outfits and pulling provocative poses.

Speaking to MailOnline, she said: 'I suppose I feel that I've had my time. There's a lot of Love Island people who are young girls, I'm 36 now.'

The professional dancer revealed that her decision hasn't sat well with her fanbase, with many expressing their disappointment that they won't be able to get their hands on her calendar this year.

'You can't do it forever?' Husband James Jordan, 40, supported Ola and agreed with her decision, as he claimed she should leave it to 'younger stars' instead

Calling it a day: Ola claimed, 'You need to know when it's you time to do certain things, there's a lot of Love Island people who are young girls, I'm 36 now'

Ola continued: 'I've had loads of emails and tweets from people saying that they can't believe I'm not doing it anymore and wives saying their husbands are going to be so disappointed - which is lovely, but you need to know when it's your time to do certain things.'

Her husband James supports her decision and he agreed with Ola's reasons, as he added: 'You can't do it forever, can you?'

The dancing star likened it to the pair deciding when it was the right time to leave hit BBC series Strictly Come Dancing and suggested they are now faced with competition from younger stars, as he said: 'It's the same thing... leave it to the younger ones.'

Outgrown it: James likened Ola's decision to the pair deciding when it was the right time to leave hit BBC series Strictly and referencing competition from younger stars, he said: 'It's the same thing... leave it to the younger ones'

Missing out: Although, the professional dancer revealed her decision hasn't sat well with fans, with many expressing their disappointment that they won't get their hands on her calendar

James had been first to leave the dancing competition in 2013, while Ola followed suit two years later in 2015 after competing in the show's thirteenth series with Iwan Thomas.

Despite leaving the show, the duo admit that they still watch Strictly every week and are heavily invested in this year's series. James tipped Stacey Dooley and Kevin Clifton to win the competition, but said that Ashley Roberts and Faye Tozer have been stand-out stars for him.

Ashley has faced criticism from Strictly viewers because of her background as a dancer in the Pussycat Dolls. Defending her place on the show, James - who has faced the same criticism over his addition to Dancing On Ice - insisted that Strictly needs talent like Ashley.

He claimed: 'If you didn't have people like that on the show, it wouldn't be what it is. At the end of the day, people still want to see good dancing. Is she going to win? No probably not... but as long as Ashley goes out and does the best job she can, you can't blame her.'

Support: Ashley has faced criticism from Strictly viewers because of her background as a dancer in the Pussycat Dolls, but James made sure to defend her place on the series

Fan: Crediting Ashley for her flawless performances, James claimed: 'If you didn't have people like that on Strictly, it wouldn't be what it is' as he said fans want to see talent on the show

James added that he is 'feeling the pressure' when it comes to his Dancing On Ice debut - set to air on ITV next year - as he thinks people are expecting him to be good, because he is a dancer.

'I've never actually ice skated before,' he claimed. 'Dancing and ice skating are totally different things. People are going to assume that I'm going to be amazing because I'm a dancer. I'm hoping that I will live up to everyone's expectations but it's only because I'm working really, really hard.'

Although, wife Ola couldn't help but poke fun at her beau, as she confessed the first time she watched James in rehearsal, he was 'really bad'.

He joins the likes of Brian McFadden and Gemma Collins on the new series - with James revealing he has made firm friends with both stars.

Their friendships have taken the star by surprise, as he admits he had pre-judged Gemma before meeting her, while former Westlife star Brian had done the same to him.

Expectations: James is 'feeling the pressure' when it comes to his Dancing On Ice debut - set to air on ITV next year - as he thinks people are expecting him to be good, because he is a dancer

Big change: James revealed he has 'never actually ice skated before' and claimed dancing and ice skating 'are totally different'

'I'm really good friends with [Brian], we get on famously, but he hated me on Big Brother the first time round.'

James then referred to a tweet he had posted previously saying he 'couldn't stand' TOWIE star Gemma, but he admits he has since been pleasantly surprised by her.

'Now I've met Gemma, she's absolutely adorable. I get on really, really, well with her, she, for some reason, finds me really funny. We have a laugh,' he claimed, before adding: 'It's human nature to judge people, I've done it before and then you meet them and actually they're decent people.'

He is known for publicly sharing his opinion on Twitter and came under fire for suggesting Danny John Jules' mother 'looked miserable' in the audience of Strictly while watching the star perform.

Firm friends: James revealed how Dancing On Ice has seen him become friends with both Gemma Collins and Brian McFadden - unlikely friendships as Brian had previously slammed James on Twitter, while James had done the same to Gemma

Danny had seen the tweet and was quick to reply, hitting out at James for targeting an elderly woman suffering from Alzheimer's.

Defending his tweet, James insisted it had been in 'light humour' and 'no malice was ever intended'. Although, he did add that he wasn't surprised by Danny's reaction, adding: 'He came across in his tweets the way he came across on the show.'

'I could understand if I personally tweeted him with his handle, but I put something up there in light humour. In hindsight it wasn't the most clever tweet I've put out there... maybe it was a little insenstive,' he added.

James stressed that he didn't know about Danny's mother suffering from Alzheimer's and insisted he too is 'sensitive' to the condition as he has had family members suffer from it.

Oops: James came under fire by Danny John Jules after he was seen suggesting the star's mother looked 'miserable' while sat in the audience of Strictly Come Dancing

Having his say: Danny had seen the tweet and was quick to reply, hitting out at James for targeting an elderly woman suffering from Alzheimer's - with James insisting he didn't know about Danny's mother's condition and there had been 'no malice' behind his tweet

Suggesting the exchange has been blown out of proportion, he claimed: 'The world has gone so PC mad it's driving me insane, people need to take a chill pill.'

One person that he can always go to for support is wife Ola, with James crediting the dancer for keeping him 'grounded'.

Agreeing, Ola said: 'James is much calmer than he used to be in his younger days,' before revealing how she keeps him in check, joking: 'I tell him off, I say to him, "It's not worth it"... we work well together.'

The duo have been together for 18 years and revealing the secret to their long lasting relationship, James said: 'We take the p*ss out of each other. We're mates, we have a laugh and we don't take ourselves too seriously.'

United: James has credited wife Ola for keeping him 'grounded' during their 18-year romance

Meanwhile, he and Ola are looking forward to taking part in the world's largest disco dance in celebration of the release of Mamma Mia: Here We Go Again on DVD.

Revealing they are huge fans of the movie, the couple are joining a force of 340 dancers to beat the Guiness World Record currently held for the largest group dance.

Joking that a feat of that size is much easier than teaching a celebrity how to dance, James said: 'With a group of people it's just about getting the energy up and this is a celebration, it's going to be great fun whereas Strictly can be very stressful at times...'

The Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again attempt at the World's Biggest Disco Dance takes place on Monday 26 November when the DVD and Blu-Ray will be released

Getting involved: James and Ola are looking forward to taking part in the world's largest disco dance in celebration of the release of Mamma Mia: Here We Go Again on DVD

====== 1336 ========

DANCING ON ICE'S FIRST TRAILER SEES POLAR BEAR CUB DANCE WITH A SQUIRREL IN AN ADORABLE SEQUENCE

Last year, their promotional clip was heralded as 'the advert that John Lewis should have made'.

And ITV revealed the first trailer for the new series of Dancing On Ice on Friday, which was sure to match the original with its adorable winter theme.

The clip opened with the cub of the polar bears from last year's advert taking a tumble down a mountain, jolting a tree along the way which made a squirrel fall onto a frozen lake with the mammal.

Cute! Dancing On Ice's first trailer returned to the world of the skating polar bears from last year as their cub danced with a SQUIRREL in an adorable advert aired on Friday

As the unlikely pair sit on top of the ice it begins to crack, prompting the polar bear to jump in the air until he slides along towards the squirrel.

Another crack in the ice splits the two apart, they stare at each other in fright as the bushy-tailed rodent drifts towards a waterfall, before it jumps onto the bear's face.

The bear tries to shake the squirrel off, and soon they begin to skate along the ice, putting on a sensational performance which included plenty of pirouettes and jumps.

It ended with the squirrel making a magnificent landing back on the snowy hilltop, only to look up and try to catch the bear as it fell down into its arms.

Dramatic opening: The clip opened with the cub of the polar bears from last year's advert taking a tumble down a mountain and falling onto a frozen lake, with the squirrel in tow

Adorable: The polar bear and squirrel then become an unlikely duo put on a sensational performance which included plenty of pirouettes and jumps

This year's edition of Dancing On Ice sees TOWIE star Gemma Collins, Love Island's Wes Nelson and former Westlife singer Brian McFadden take to the ice.

James Jordan, Melody Thornton and former-X Factor contestant Saara Aalto are also among the lineup.

Bosses told MailOnline that the popular skating show has been given a massive shake-up and while popular judge Ashley Banjo will return, his brother Jordan won't be back to present the backstage rink segment.

Big finish: It ended with the squirrel making a magnificent landing back on the snowy hilltop, only to look up and try to catch the bear as it fell down into its arms

Ta dah! The pair gave their performance a wonderful finish as the squirrel held up the bear

Ashley judges alongside Jason Gardine, Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean.

A spokesperson for Dancing On Ice told MailOnline: 'Jordan isn't able to return due to scheduling conflicts, and the whole team at Dancing on Ice wishes him well.'

Won by Jake Quickenden and Vanessa Bauer, last year's edition of Dancing On Ice was the first series since 2014, with the show relocating from Elstree Studios to RAF Bovingdon in Hertfordshire in a bid to revamp the competition.

Dancing On Ice will return to screens in the New Year.

They're back! Holly Wiloughby and Philip Scofield will be back as hosts for the show

====== 1337 ========

LISA ARMSTRONG SHOWS OFF HER VERY SEXY SIDE AS SHE POSES IN A WEDDING DRESS

She got divorced from Ant McPartlin just weeks ago, but Lisa Armstrong showed off her very sexy side as she posed in a wedding dress for her pop band Deuce in 1995.

Ant McPartlin's ex-wife, who married the TV presenter in 2006, was just 19 when she danced in her thigh-grazing gown which put her stockings on display.

As the bitter fall-out of Lisa and Ant's divorce rumbles on, a sexy clip of the make-up artist in a bridal dress and veil has now re-surfaced.

Different: Lisa Armstrong showed off her VERY sexy side as she posed in a wedding dress... as throwback video emerged just weeks after Ant McPartlin divorce

Pictured: As the bitter fall-out of Lisa and Ant's divorce rumbles on, a saucy clip of the make-up artist in a bridal dress and veil has now surfaced

While she shunned a demure wedding dress, Ant's ex added traditional bridal touches to her look with a veil and a tiara.

Lisa boogied in the wedding-themed music video for Deuce's 1995 hit On The Bible.

The brunette bombshell was the tender age of 19 in the historic clip and still part of her former pop band Deuce.

Beautiful bride: Lisa went onto marry Ant at the youthful age of 30, 11 years after she performed in the music video in 1995

Deuce had a short-lived success in the mid-1990s and the band went their separate ways for good in 1997.

Lisa went onto marry Ant 11 years later at the age of 30.

The throwback clip comes as Lisa comes to terms with the breakdown of her 12-year marriage and a total of 23 years with Ant.

She's so sexy: Ant McPartlin's ex-wife, who married the TV presenter in 2006, was just 19 when she danced in her thigh-grazing gown which put her stockings on display

Blushing bride: While she shunned a demure wedding dress, Ant's ex added traditional bridal touches to her look with a veil and a tiara

In October, they were finally granted a divorce in a 30-second hearing after Ant admitted he committed adultery with his current love Anne-Marie Corbett.

Recently, Lisa showed she was still bruised by her lost love as she liked a tweet about the 'vilest betrayal'.

She liked a tweet which read: 'I think your an inspiration to all wronged women you managed to hold your head high and maintain dignity in the face of the vilest betrayal.

Having the best time: Lisa boogied in the wedding-themed music video for Deuce's 1995 hit On The Bible

She looks amazing: The brunette bombshell was the tender age of 19 in the historic clip and still part of her former pop band Deuce

'I had a similar thing happen to me and I suffered a nervous breakdown and lost three years of my life! You are incredibly (crown emoji).'

Lisa has been unable to resist liking a number of sympathetic posts from fans who have been reassuring her things will get better while sharing their own heartache.

She also liked a post which read: 'Just sayin’ been where u are #betrayed by my best mate and husband and it ended up being the best thing ever happened to me.

Blast from the past: Deuce had a short-lived success in the mid-1990s and the band went their separate ways for good in 1997

'Stay dignified girl you’ll fly and be happier than ever before you know it.'

Lisa's ex husband Ant released a statement back in January that the couple, who were married for 12 years, were to split.

Meanwhile, Ant has stepped down from his television duties as he continues his recovery out of the spotlight.

Sadness: The throwback clip comes amid Lisa struggling to come to terms with the breakdown of her 12-year marriage and a total of 23 years with Ant

====== 1338 ========

SOAPWATCH: JACI STEPHEN'S ULTIMATE INSIGHT INTO THIS WEEK'S SOAPS

Why are soapland’s siblings so disloyal to their nearest and dearest? Far from the adage that blood is thicker than water, their relationships are less solid than air.

Remember when EastEnders’ Phil did the dirty on his bruvver Grant with wife Sharon? Well, Sharon is no spring chicken in the unfaithful department, as we discovered when Grant got bruvver revenge two years ago. Ever heard of the word ‘No’, Shazza?

A couple of weeks ago, Max blew a gasket when he discovered that brother Jack had slept with Rainie. You’d think he’d be grateful.

Despite the unusual arranged marriage to the ex-druggie, surely he’d have gone down on bended knee and given thanks for the arrival of anyone who took her off his hands for five minutes (and Jack’s been more than willing to do that with a lot of ladies).

One thing all siblings have in common is they eventually forgive each other, whether the offences be murder, theft, bigamy or adultery – although Corrie’s Sally might not see it that way now Gina is intent on stealing Nice But Dim Tim from under her nose.

Kat bumps into Maurice, a friend of her dead dad Charlie, in EastEnders before getting on to her moped

EASTENDERS: LIKE A KAT OUT OF HELL

You can die but you can’t hide. When Kat bumps into Maurice, a friend of her dead dad Charlie, she’s suspicious about his behaviour.

That’s no surprise, given there are skeletons forever leaping out of closets, it’s a mystery everyone doesn’t just break into a chorus of, ‘Dem bones, dem bones, dem dry bones’ every episode. When a traumatised Kat leaves on her moped, she crashes into an elderly man and is left unconscious.

Doubtless her make-up will save her: who needs a helmet when you have a skull-load of mascara for protection. It’s perhaps the first time someone has leapt on a moped/motorbike and hasn’t ended up in Ibiza running a bar (oh, how we miss you, Ronnie, and your revved up runners to the Spanish coastline).

Even though Kat comes to, Maurice’s bombshell has a huge impact and it’s not long before Kat hits the bottle at E20 (you have to be really desperate to go there). Life goes from bad to worse when she turns up at the Vic drunk (doesn’t everyone? Isn’t that why they sell so few drinks – people are hitting the vodka in the bath beforehand?).

Will an unexpected visitor put a smile on her face? Not without resorting to facial forceps, methinks.

Kat then loses control of the bike and crashes into an elderly man and falls unconscious (pictured)

CORONATION STREET: TRIAL BY FURY?

I’ve never been convinced by Gina. Not for a second did I believe Dev would’ve fallen for her once, let alone twice, when he claimed he wanted her back (Seriously? He’d have had more fun dating one of his overpriced bottles of shiraz – you can buy six bottles in Lidl for what he charges for one).

She’s always seemed like a kind of washed-up mermaid, ever jealous that her best and more glamorous mate landed Troy Tempest (Google Stingray, for all you young people out there).

Will she come through when she takes the stand, allegedly in Sally’s defence? Unlikely.

Sally needs to convince the jury in this week's Coronation Street as she takes to the stand

As the week progresses and she starts playing husband and wife against each other, it’s clear Gina’s looking at the long game. At least Sally has managed to get hold of some decent foundation and mascara while she’s been inside, just before she goes to court.

But will the jury buy her story, and, importantly, will Tim buy the lies Gina is peddling? Ask yourself this, Tim: could you really stand to listen to that voice banging on all day? And night? For eternity?

Sally may be a social climber, but Gina couldn’t make it up a single rung playing Snakes And Ladders (though she makes a very convincing snake).

Also, Rana and Kate are in for a shock when they discover their first round of IVF is going to cost them £3,500 (roughly Carla’s red wine bill for the week). And will the dead body in the morgue turn out to be Jude? Er, how will they be able to tell?

EMMERDALE: KISS ME (NOT SO) QUICK

Well, hold the front page! Megan pulls away when a man tries to kiss her! Here’s my advice: just give her half a lager.

Having told Frank they’re finished, will Megan see Graham as a new start, or finally learn her lesson and never trust a man again? (Duh!)

Meanwhile, Gabby and Leanna plot to break up Liam and Bernice. Good luck with that. You’d have more luck separating Ant and Dec… OK, bad example, but you get my drift.

Biggest excitement of the week is Leanna encouraging Noah to steal a bottle of vodka. Should have told him to steal a distillery. He’ll need it, given the family he has to deal with.

====== 1339 ========

PLATELL'S PEOPLE: FIONA BRUCE DOESN'T HAVE THE CUNNING TO COMMAND THE QUESTION TIME BEAR PIT

BBC newsreader and Antiques Roadshow presenter Fiona Bruce, who has reportedly been offered the job of hosting Question Time

As the presenter of the Antiques Roadshow, Fiona Bruce should be able to differentiate between a priceless chalice and a poisoned one.

One of the most eloquent, intelligent and gracious faces on TV, she has been offered the job of presenting Question Time, taking over from David Dimbleby who has held the chair for nearly a quarter of a century.

My advice? Don’t take it, Fiona!

It’s not that she’s not clever enough, she is. But replacing DD — an antique himself — is the most daunting prospect. As a long-time QT panellist, I have been a fierce critic of Dimbleby, yet I concede he has in his little finger more political knowledge than all of his guests combined.

Question Time is the only serious political programme that provides a platform for proper debate, pitting minister against shadow minister. Where panellists do battle with each other as well as the formidable and often baying audience.

It is a bear pit. Do Fiona’s virtues prepare her for that? Does she have the forensic political insight for the job? I suspect not, even though she cut her teeth on Panorama and Newsnight and was the first woman presenter on a BBC election broadcast.

Question Time is the only serious political programme that provides a platform for proper debate, pitting minister against shadow minister

In any case, would she really want to win the race when men were not included in the heats? Yes, Nick Robinson was a token male candidate but the achingly PC Beeb was never going to give the job to a man.

What joy is there in winning the top prize when 50 per cent of the candidates can’t compete? Andrew Neil, Robert Peston, John Pienaar, to name but a few — all excluded because of their sex. And much as I adore Fiona, does she really match up to Laura Kuenssberg or Emily Maitlis?

Question Time is the toughest of gigs for the presenter. It doesn’t require poise but cunning, political nous and a ferocity and command I suspect Fiona does not possess.

Replacing David Dimbleby, above, an antique himself — is the most daunting prospect. As a long-time QT panellist, I have been a fierce critic of Dimbleby, yet I concede he has in his little finger more political knowledge than all of his guests combined

The job is not so much herding cats, as being ringmaster to starving lions ready to bite each others’ heads off. It’s not the Antiques Roadshow. This is politics in the raw, where everyone believes they know all the answers.

It is, and should be, forensic, fierce, formidable. That’s not Fiona Bruce. She’ll be a butterfly broken on the unrelenting wheel of politics.

Or does the BBC have some dastardly plan to turn QT into a nice, friendly chat? In which case three million viewers will turn off.

As a QT regular, I still get calls from politicians asking for advice before they go on. Apart from being on top of your brief, the key thing is to breathe calmly and smile. Advice not taken by the first woman I counselled, a Shadow Education Minister, one Theresa May.

Nigella rises above

Nigella Lawson, above, who Amanda Platell calls a Domestic Goddess

In an article from the Noughties printed in yesterday’s Mail — in celebration of Femail’s 50th anniversary — luscious Nigella Lawson was dismissed as ‘a conwoman preaching a gospel of tokenism’ at a time when most women ‘loathed’ baking.

Fast-forward a couple of decades and the Domestic Goddess is still standing and baking, despite having lost her mother, sister and husband to cancer, and despite a disastrous marriage which ended after her second husband appeared to ‘strangle’ her in public. Like a double-baked cheese souffle, Nigella keeps on rising.

Cheryl has been accused of ripping off Paul Young's hit Love of the Common People

Cheryl out of love

How ludicrous that Cheryl has been accused of ripping off Paul Young’s Eighties hit Love Of The Common People for her new flop single Love Made Me Do It.

Even in her most deluded moments, the former golden girl of pop, now abandoned by her fans, must realise she’s no longer ‘living in the love of the common people’.

Celeb Jungle dramas

Swoon moment was when Harry Redknapp (pictured) described how much he is missing his wife of 54 years, Sandra

So why did 11 million people tune in to the I’m A Celebrity jungle? Perhaps because the new Declan Donnelly-Holly Willoughby combo is just irresistible. And those legs! She is a ray of sunshine, unlike her predecessor Ant, who looked as though he was constantly chewing on kangaroo testicles. Dec the halls with thighs of Holly!

Swoon moment was when Harry Redknapp (pictured) described how much he is missing his wife of 54 years, Sandra. All he ever wanted in life was to be with her, he said, adding that he was glad he didn’t kill her when he accidentally ran over her in his car.

And I do worry about the safety of The Chase star Anne Hegerty.

She is so obese she can’t take part in any of the Bush Tucker Trials that don’t involve food.

Anne Hegerty pictured on I'm a Celebrity. She is also known as The Governess on quiz show The Chase

Diagnosed with Asperger’s, she struggles with the most menial of tasks and they make jokes about ‘getting her out of bed’ in the morning as she has to be rolled out of her hammock.

It’s verging on cruelty. Time to Chase Her Out Of Here . . .

Westminster Wars

Gordon Brown wants to set up People’s Parliaments all over the nation, where panels of experts discuss Brexit and we ordinary folk get to vote on their deliberations, a bit like The X Factor. An eye-watering thought, our former PM as a perma-tanned, medallioned Simon Cowell — white shirt opened to his navel.

On top of his £77,379 backbench salary, Boris has topped up his earnings last year by £244,000 with speeches and his bilious columns about the Brexit ‘divorce deal’. Ironic that most of the money will go on his own divorce deal after being serially unfaithful to his wife, Marina.

Gordon Brown, above, wants to set up People’s Parliaments all over the nation, where panels of experts discuss Brexit

In an online quiz about Game Of Thrones, Michael Gove reveals he thinks he’s most like Tyrion Lannister, the cunning dwarf. Too modest, Michael. Surely he’s a reincarnation of the dastardly Petyr Baelish, who’d smother his own mother for a seat on the throne.

The prehistoric natives of North Sentinel Island waving their bows and arrows before killing a missionary seemed only slightly less friendly than equally old-fashioned Jacob Rees-Mogg was to Theresa May when she brought back her Brexit deal.

My Christmas miracle

On Wednesday, my dad fell in the shower and broke his hip.

For me the heartbreaking incident was a reminder of how helpless those of us with elderly parents so often are because we can’t be there when they need us most.

Last night, after a successful operation, he said he was determined to get back with Mum soon to celebrate their 70th wedding anniversary early next year. Sometimes Christmas comes early.

Tell it to the boss

After shocking videos of a policewoman being kicked in the head, the police union called for the public to intervene. We all have a duty to protect officers, we’re told.

Tell that to the Met’s Deputy Commissioner, Craig Mackey, who chose to lock himself in his car rather than assist a fellow officer who was being stabbed to death in the Westminster terror attack last year.

Eco warrior Prince Charles says we must end our throwaway culture. We need to re-make clothes not discard them, mend them as he has done all his life, still wearing classic suits that are decades old. A timely message, but especially for his new daughter-in-law Megs, who hasn’t been seen twice in any of her couture creations.

City boss Helena Morrissey says she and Stella McCartney discuss ‘normal women’s stuff’ at the school gates — no doubt wrapped up in their £1,365 on-trend faux-fur leopard-print McCartney coats. As you do.

After meeting him on Facebook, mother-of-nine Heidi Hepworth, 45, is insisting on marrying her Gambian lover Mamadou Salieu Jallow, 31, in a mosque in The Gambia as she believes it is a ‘more caring place than Britain’.

Maybe so, but I bet Mr Jallow, a taxi driver, concludes that benefits-rich Britain is a more ‘caring place’ to live out their blissful married life than his home country.

The BBC is minded to axe free TV licences for the over-75s. Perhaps this would be more palatable if it started axing over-£75,000 salaries for its army of no-talent pen-pushers.

Animal rights group PETA has demanded a 1,000-year-old Dorset village change its name from Wool to Vegan Wool, claiming it’s cruel to sheep.

Wonder what PETA thinks of the Greater Manchester town of Ramsbottom?

====== 1340 ========

THE STARS WHO ARE ALREADY DECORATING THEIR HOMES FOR CHRISTMAS

It may only be November but celebrities are getting into the Christmas spirit extra early this year.

Abbey Clancy, 32, Fearne Cotton, 37, and Lucy Mecklenburgh, 27, are among the stars who are already putting up their decorations as the countdown to Christmas begins.

While Victoria Beckham has decked out her flagship London store on Dover Street with personalised baubles, other celebrities have been getting a head-start and putting up their Christmas trees in their own homes.

Taking to Instagram to show off their decorating skills, they've been giving their fans a glimpse into their lavish lifestyles. Fitness guru Lucy has even got the help of a 'seasonal installations' expert to deck the halls.

Scroll down to check out their holiday-ready houses...

Model Abbey Clancy, 32, has got into the Christmas spirit decorating her and husband Peter Crouch's, 37, house with two massive nutcrackers. It looks like their children are feeling festive too

Despite questioning whether it was too early, TV presenter Fearne Cotton, 37, has hung up a sparkly festive sign reading 'May your days be merry and bright' by her window

Lucy Mecklenburgh, 27, has truly got into the Christmas spirit. She filmed herself listening to Christmas songs whilst waiting for a 'seasonal installations' expert to arrive

Fearne Cotton, left, Abbey Clancey, centre, and Lucy Mecklenburgh, right, are among the celebrities who are already getting into the festive spirit on Instagram

Stacey Solomon, 29, shared a glimpse of her Christmas decorations in the boot of her car. The Loose Women presenter has splashed out on some rather quirky pieces including a giant glittery unicorn a pink feathery bird

Catherine Tyldesley, 35, admitted on her Instagram she is 'obsessed' with Christmas posting this snap in November. She added 'I don't care we're early'. The actress used a wedding company to help decorate the house but said she always does the tree with her three-year-old son Alfie

Fashion designer Victoria Beckham has decked out her London flagship store on Dover Street early. She even has her own branded pink baubles with silver glitter

Stacey Solomon, seen left, has admitted she is feeling 'so Christmassy'. Although we are yet to see a peek of her tree, she has revealed on Instagram it is already up. Meanwhile Victoria Beckham, seen right, has decked out her Dover Street store with personalised festive baubles

Tom Fletcher, 33, is often very vocal about his love of Christmas. The Mcfly singer put up this Christmas tree in his office at the beginning of November and said in the caption it was for 'research'. Tom stuck to a traditional colour scheme of red and gold

Millie Bobby Brown, 14, shared a peek into her home showing off her very plush Christmas tree. The Stranger Things star captioned the snap 'Christmas time' and has gone for a white and silver colour scheme with sparkly ribbons and candy canes

====== 1341 ========

X FACTOR'S ANTHONY RUSSELL SPARKS CONCERN AS HE HASN'T REHEARSED AHEAD OF SHOW SEMI-FINAL

Anthony Russell has sparked concern that he may not be able to sing in X Factor's upcoming semi-final on Saturday as he revealed that he's been on voice rest.

The singer, 28, has already advised fans that he's giving his voice a rest this week ahead of the live show, but it seems that things are proving even more challenging behind the scenes.

In an interview with The Sun on Friday, a source close to Anthony revealed: 'While X Factor is gruelling on every singer's voice, Anthony's issues have been a real cause for concern in this crucial week.'

Concerning:Anthony Russell has sparked concern that he may not be able to sing in X Factor's upcoming semi-final on Saturday as he revealed that he's been on voice rest

They added: 'He's either not been singing during vocal sessions or rehearsals or has missed them altogether.'

'He's worried and has almost convinced himself he's going home.'

On Wednesday, Anthony shared a image with fans in which he looked downcast as he held up a piece of paper that had the words 'voice rest' written across the front.

'Voice rest': The X Factor favourite tried to reassure his 110k Instagram followers, as he said: 'Back on voice rest this week people!!! Anyone tryna ring me pls message me instead!!'

The X Factor favourite tried to reassure his 110k Instagram followers, as he said: 'Back on voice rest this week people!!! Anyone tryna ring me pls message me instead!!

'Need to make sure my voice is ready to smashhh it this week!!! I've promised [mentor Louis Tomlinson] I'll be on mute and I mean it!!! I won't let u down lad!!!'

An X Factor insider told MailOnline that Anthony was able to sing during an ABBA masterclass with Benny Andersson, 71, which will be shown on Saturday, and that he was singing at final rehearsals on Friday.

Fans wished Anthony their best as they took to his Instagram in their droves to share messages of support for him.

Get well soon: Fans wished Anthony their best as they took to his Instagram in their droves to share messages of support for him

One wrote: Feel better Ant! All the good vibes and luck this weekend! Going to snatch those finals.'

While another fan said: 'Rest and sing the best Ant love ye son keep going mate x'

A fan also passionately gave him their best by writing: 'Hope you feel better soon keep up the voice rest in preparation for smashing it on Saturday like you always do. I will be voting on Saturday and Sunday again no doubt.'

Worried: A source close revealed that 'Anthony's issues have been a real cause for concern' (Pictured with Louis Tomlinson, Dalton Harris (centre right), Brendan Murray (right)

Anthony has been wowing the judges and viewers with his incredible vocal skills after being forced out of the show last year due to drug use.

After eventual mentor Louis Tomlinson paid for his rehab treatment, Anthony has blown away the panel and viewers, with Simon Cowell recently tipping him as a potential finalist.

On Saturday's Big Band Week quarter-final Anthony belted out the hit song Beyond The Sea, to a thunderous reception from viewers and the judging panel.

Louis said: 'I'm so proud of you. I thought it was important that you sing this song tonight cause people see how long you've been fighting for this opportunity.

'You're a fighter, you're a real man, you're working class, and I love you to pieces.'

====== 1342 ========

CHERYL ACCUSED OF RIPPING OFF PAUL YOUNG'S LOVE OF THE COMMON PEOPLE IN HER NEW SINGLE

Cheryl's fans have noticed a striking similarity between her new single Love Made Me Do It and Paul Young's Love Of The Common People.

The singer, 35, has being accused of copying the Eighties hit by some listeners, causing the music legend to wade into the debate, telling his followers he 'doesn't hear it'.

It comes after the former Girls Aloud band-member was criticised for performing a 'raunchy' routine and live vocals during her musical comeback on the X Factor last Sunday.

Coincidence? Cheryl's fans have noticed a striking similarity between her new single Love Made Me Do It and Paul Young's Eighties hit, Love Of The Common People

A source told The Sun: 'It's been a big talking point in the music world how Cheryl's song has huge similarities to Love Of The Common People.

'When you play both the songs' verses side by side they're nearly identical and have the same rhythm and feel to it.

'It's quite embarrassing for Cheryl, especially given she's trying to portray herself as an innovative songwriter.'

Inspiration: The singer, 35, has being accused of copying the Eighties hit by some listeners, causing the music legend to wade into the debate, telling his followers he 'doesn't hear it'

Cheryl is one of the songwriters to receive a credit on the track, alongside best bal Nicola Roberts, singer Natasha Bedingfield and five others.

After being inundated with tweets about the similarities Paul responded: 'I have to say, quite a few people have said this but I'm not getting it!'

Other listeners took to Twitter in their droves.

One wrote: 'Hope @PaulYoungParlex is getting some beer tokens for @CherylOfficial new song? Sounds canny familiar to love of the common people just adding a very poor wardrobe'.

Similiarities: After being inundated with tweets about the similarities Paul responded: 'I have to say, quite a few people have said this but I'm not getting it!'

Meanwhile, another wrote: 'It is just me of does the new Cheryl song (love made me do it) sound a lot like your hit @PaulYoungParlez love of the common people. Especially the verses'.

Another typed: 'Is Cheryl's new single just Love of the Common People?', with a different listener chiming: 'When I hear the new Cheryl song I hear Paul Young's track 'Love of the common people'. Very similar to me.'

MailOnline has contacted Cheryl's representatives for comment.

The singer will take to the stage on Sunday to perform her newest single Love Made Me Do It, though a tweet also seems to hint she will perform her 2009 classic Fight For This Love.

The mother-of-one will be hoping to turn around public opinion with the Manchester show, after the backlash surrounding her X Factor show.

Cheryl was criticised for performing a 'raunchy' routine on the family friendly show, and her live vocals also didn't go down well with some of her fans.

Controversial: Cheryl was criticised for performing a 'raunchy' routine on the family friendly show, and her live vocals also didn't go down well with some of her fans

At time of publication, Love Made Me Do It sat at number 19 in the Official Singles Chart, number 62 on Apple's Chart, number 74 in Apple's UK Chart. She did not appear in the Top 200 or Viral Top 50 on Spotify.

Despite this, Spotify gave the star a nod in its 'Hot Hits' category, which Cheryl gave a nod to on her Instagram stories by thanking the streaming service.

Touching on her fluctuating position, sources told The Sun: 'It's dropping down the rankings fast this week despite it being her big comeback. It could easily end up falling further by the time the final charts are unveiled on Friday.'

After becoming aware of the mixed reviews, Cheryl herself posted an impassioned message on Twitter on Tuesday, defending herself, after her performance garnered 45 Ofcom complaints.

Gorgeous: Cheryl was looking sensational in edgy black sunglasses on Thursday as she took to Instagram while prepping for her next live performance in Hits Radio Live in Manchester

She said that her single might not be to everyone's taste, but she had watched back the performance and loved it, despite claims she had been left devastated over the negative comments she received about her live vocals.

In a strongly-worded message, the singer did admit that her music and performances 'aren't for everyone.'

The Twitter post read: 'I wanted to start by saying thank you all so much for your lovely comments and support for my performance on Sunday. You may not have read about them but I definitely saw and felt them!'

She continued: 'Having spent 16 years in the public eye I have always been accepting of people's opinions. Me personally, my music and performances are never going to be for everyone, And that's OK.'

Cheryl ended the message by addressing reports she has been watching her performance back on repeat, writing: 'Ps.... I did watch my performance back and I LOVED IT!'

====== 1343 ========

ROBBIE WILLIAMS WILL REUNITE WITH TAKE THAT FOR ONE-OFF PERFORMANCE IN X FACTOR FINAL NEXT WEEK

Robbie Williams will reunite with Take That for a special one-off performance for the X Factor final next Sunday.

It was revealed on ITV's Lorraine on Friday, that the Angels hitmaker, 44, will join former bandmates Gary Barlow, Howard Donald and Mark Owen during the show on December 2, ahead of their 30th anniversary celebrations.

While the judge was first to leave the band in July 1995, Jason Orange was the next departure when he quit the group in September 2014, yet he will not perform during the X Factor reunion.

Reunited: Robbie Williams will reunite with Take That for a special one-off performance for the X Factor final next Sunday (pictured in 1991)

Dan Wooton revealed on Lorraine: 'It would be totally wrong for Take That to perform as a trio with Robbie in the audience'.

Robbie performed with Take That last year during the final of Let It Shine, a BBC talent show to find five contestants to join the cast of a new West End show featuring the music of the band.

The news comes a month after the Take That tour dates for 2019 were announced for the group's Greatest Hits Live event in celebration of their 30th anniversary, with Rick Astley also being confirmed as their special guest for their UK-wide tour.

Gary, Howard and Mark will be travelling across the UK without Robbie and Jason in a follow up to their 2017 Wonderland tour, with US and Middle East dates still rumoured to be added.

No rest: It was revealed on ITV's Lorraine on Friday, that the Angels hitmaker, 44, will join former bandmates Gary Barlow, Howard Donald and Mark Owen during the show on December 2, ahead of their 30th anniversary celebrations

Back for good? Robbie last performed with Take That last year during the final of Let It Shine last year

During a candid interview with presenter Ross King earlier this month, Gary revealed details about his so-called rivalry with Robbie, his health and his ego.

Speaking of the Robbie rivalry, he teased: 'We'd both say it's not a rivalry, but you know it is. I'm completely fine as long as I sell one more copy of my new album...

'I mean, no, honestly we're probably in the best place we've ever been... We talk a lot. We email a lot. I think those days are over, I really do.'

While touching on his career, he also revealed he went to great lengths to repair his relationship with Robbie, following their fallout in 1995.

Ego: Gary revealed details about his so-called rivalry with Robbie, his health and his ego earlier this month (Take That pictured in 1992)

The star added that it was a 'genius idea' for Robbie to join his wife Ayda on the X-Factor, which Gary was also a former judge on from 2011 to 2013.

He said: 'I know what Rob's like, he doesn't really like new environments.

'I remember the first time I met Ayda, I remember coming home to the hotel and phoning everyone up and saying, "Rob's going to be alright, I've just met his fiancée, she's going to look after him, she's going to save his life".'

Genius: Gary Barlow said it was a 'genius idea' for Robbie to join his wife Ayda on the X-Factor, which Gary was also a former judge on from 2011 to 2013

The boyband are keeping busy, having put their plans to perform in Las Vegas on hold to focus on their new film.

The boy band trio have admitted while there are still discussions about following the example of Robbie with a Sin City residency, they have other commitments after next year's UK tour.

Howard told the Daily Star: 'There's talk of still going to the States - but not for a while.'

Gary explained a big screen adaptation of their own musical 'The Band' will keep them busy when filming starts next summer. He added: 'We are going to make a film of our musical The Band next year, we are all signed off on that now.

Happy days: The star added that it was a 'genius idea' for Robbie to join his wife Ayda on the X-Factor, which Gary was also a former judge on from 2011 to 2013

'Tim Firth is doing the film script and we are going to shoot next summer. Again we can get involved with the music and that will keep us busy after the tour next year.'

Meanwhile, the group's new greatest hits collection 'Odyssey' has given the trio a chance to reflect on their career while giving the a songs a new twist.

Mark admitted: 'The songs mean a lot to us, so if I'm a listener I don't want to mess about too much with them.'

Earlier this month, Robbie unveiled his own plans for a run of shows at Wynn Las Vegas in March 2019.

He said: 'I'm beyond excited to announce my first ever residency in Las Vegas. To follow in the footsteps of some of the greatest entertainers of all time is a dream come true - I can't wait.'

====== 1344 ========

HOLLY WILLOUGHBY NEEDS A TEAM OF 13 TO SUPPORT HER IN THE JUNGLE

With her bright smile, giggles and grimaces — not to mention that eye-wateringly expensive designer wardrobe — Holly Willoughby is the most talked-about star of ITV's I'm A Celebrity...Get Me Out Of Here! But it takes a team of 13 to keep her shiny and immaculate. Here ALISON BOSHOFF reveals Holly's Jungle Crew...

Stylist with the X factor

Stylist Angie Smith made her name at ITV by dressing Dannii Minogue for The X Factor. Now she dresses Holly for This Morning — and regularly hits the spot with High Street outfits which sell out almost instantly.

She also works with Christine Lampard, Amanda Holden and Rochelle Humes — and is helping the Spice Girls with outfits for their reunion tour.

Ms Smith started out as a humble 'style assistant' on FHM magazine then began styling celebrities for fashion shoots and offering personal fashion consultations. Her inspirations are Emmanuelle Alt and Carine Roitfeld — the current and ex editors of French Vogue.

Stylist Angie Smith, pictured, dresses Holly for This Morning — and regularly hits the spot with High Street outfits which sell out almost instantly

In an interview, she said: 'I always liked giving my friends make-overs and seeing how great they felt if I chose their outfit and did their make-up before we went out. I didn't even know what a stylist was before I went to do work experience on a magazine.'

She was an early champion of London-based designer Emilia Wickstead. Holly said of Angie: 'I've learnt from her. I've learnt that with all of my clothes. I'm like a little sponge, it becomes more natural after you have been doing it for a long time.'

Angie shared photos of the journey to Australia on Instagram, of her and make-up artist Patsy O'Neill sharing glasses of champagne in business class. There was a rare faux pas this week when Holly was dressed in a sweater with a logo on it — which ITV had to blur out lest it count as brand advertising.

Holly shares snaps of her outfits and where she got them with her 4.4million Instagram followers. Her outfit on Wednesday included a £165 shirt by edgy label Bash, and a £43.99 Madewell denim miniskirt.

Special agent to stars

Holly travelled to Australia with her agent Emily Page, the woman who seems to be constantly by her side.

Ms Page, who works for James Grant management, also looks after Holly's This Morning co-star Phillip Schofield and her fellow Garnier hair colour 'ambassador' and good friend Davina McCall.

Holly travelled to Australia with her agent Emily Page, pictured together at Gold Coast Airport earlier this month, the woman who seems to be constantly by her side

In a demonstration of the extremely cosy relationship between the network and the management company, which also looks after Ant and Dec, Emily worked at ITV before joining James Grant.

Indeed, in 2012 she was on the PR team which went to Australia for I'm A Celebrity.

Dec's wife Ali Astall works for James Grant as an agent and Ant McPartlin's new girlfriend, Anne-Marie Corbett, was originally his PA, provided by James Grant.

Guru who gives her skin a magical glow

What is the secret of Holly's perfect skin? Her make-up artist Patsy O'Neill swears by cheap-and-cheerful foundation, plus the new generation of sophisticated finishing powders to give a 'magical glow'.

Holly's make-up artist Patsy O'Neill (right) swears by cheap-and-cheerful foundation, plus the new generation of sophisticated finishing powders

One of her favourites is Deciem's The Ordinary Serum, a £5.75 lightweight foundation. After its launch there was a waiting list of 25,000 wanting to buy it.

Ms O'Neill is punctilious about telling her Instagram followers exactly what she uses on Holly — Sisley mascara in plum, Heliocare sunscreen and so on. She went to the London College of Fashion before working as a make-up artist for MTV in the Nineties. Her style is 'no gimmicks, no nonsense' and she is particularly keen on red lipstick, which she always wears herself.

She's also worked with model Abbey Clancy, Spice Girl Emma Bunton and TV presenter Denise van Outen.

Like stylist Angie, she works with Holly daily on This Morning.

In an interview she said: 'I keep my make-up kit full of brands that are conscious and aware. I'm always trying out new products.'

Loving mum and dad who are Holly's idols

Holly's mum Lynne is a former air stewardess while father Brian used to run a double-glazing firm. Happily married, she calls them her idols and looks up to their example of domestic stability.

Holly said: 'My mum and dad have been together for years and years, and they're a real team. My mum instilled in me that importance of family life and being married to somebody who is a real partner.

'From watching her with my dad over the years, I knew that was something I really wanted.'

Holly is the younger of two children. She and big sister Kelly were raised in Woodmancote, near Brighton, and went to the private Burgess Hill Girls school.

She says she talks to her mother several times a day and Kelly, too. Holly said of her sister: 'We're best friends and because we've never chased the same dream, there's a complete lack of competitiveness.

Holly's mum Lynne, pictured together at a restaurant in Chelsea last year, is a former air stewardess while father Brian used to run a double-glazing firm

'We spend every bank holiday and Christmas together. If you spend a day in our company you feel sorry for anybody else coming into our gang.' She added: 'I have the best memories of Christmas.

'Mum and Dad are massive fans and it was almost more important than our birthdays. It was like Santa's grotto in our house.

'Mum once had a Christmas party in June. She defrosted the freezer and when all her friends came round she made us lean out the window and throw the frost outside, to make it seem like it was snowing.

'Christmas is still huge for us. We flip-flop it, as I have my husband Dan's family to think about and Kelly's the same, so we do either Boxing Day or Christmas Day. It's mainly about eating these days.'

Kelly said: 'We were the girliest of girlie girls when we were little and our games were always based around Cinderella.

'It's where our world started and stopped — it still does!'

Her three children — and is that bump No. 4?

Holly's three children — Harry, nine, Belle, seven, and Chester, four — are coming out to be with her in Australia.

She said in an interview: 'I don't think I would have been able to do my job properly if I couldn't see them. My whole focus has been working out the family logistics.'

Pregnancy rumours are swirling, because Holly looks both more covered up and a little curvier than usual. So might she be expecting a fourth child?

Happy families: Holly shares three children - Harry, eight, daughter Belle, six, and three-year-old Chester - with husband Dan Baldwin

She said last year: 'I hate saying no [to having another baby] because I hated [pregnancy] being over.

'I love being pregnant, I love giving birth, I love all that. It's like wearing a wedding dress, I don't want that all to be over.

'Maybe one day [we'll have more]. We're very happy as we are, it feels like we are complete.'

...and her husband

Work commitments mean Holly's TV executive husband Dan Baldwin is only going to join her for five days out of the five weeks she is in Oz. She said: 'It's the longest we've been apart; it's rubbish.'

Holly says she has had only three boyfriends, and married the third one. They met in 2004 when he was the producer on the kids TV show Ministry Of Mayhem, but it was six months before romance blossomed.

They married in 2007 holding their reception at Amberley Castle, Sussex. Holly walked down the aisle to the theme tune from Disney's The Slipper And The Rose. She said: 'I'd fantasised about being married since I was a little girl and dressed up in my mum's wedding dress.'

Work commitments mean Holly's TV executive husband Dan Baldwin, pictured together, is only going to join her for five days out of the five weeks she is in Australia

Dan was executive producer on Celebrity Juice and now produces Holly's game show Play To The Whistle via his independent media company, Hungry Bear.

In February it emerged that Dan went to the notorious Presidents Club party where hostesses were groped and harassed.

He was named on the seating plan along with Dragons' Den star Peter Jones, who is chairman of Hungry Bear, and who was said to be shocked after Holly ditched plans to launch a lifestyle website, Truly, with him only a month before it was meant to go live.

Dan's career — while successful — is on a rather lesser scale to hers but she has never acknowledged the fact. She said: 'Marriage is something you have to look after and work at. It's really important to do that and I'm very lucky that I count Dan as one of my best friends — he's also a friend that I think is quite hot.'

Kids' tutors

Although they are young, the children will be missing around three weeks of school, so arrangements have been made for them to keep up with school work via tutors as Holly says they have 'loads to do'.

She said: 'I've had to be really clear with them, they can play for a couple of hours but none of us are on holiday. We're all doing work.

'The headmaster was amazing. If the kids couldn't come then it would have been a completely different ball game and I would have had to have a long, hard think about it.'

Image experts

Holly can rely on the services of two senior ITV publicists, Ben Webster and Gary Smith, while in Australia. The pair are looking after Holly and the show as a whole.

She also is being advised by Laura Sinclair, of publicists Dawbell, although Ms Sinclair has remained in London. Dawbell also look after James Corden and Sir Paul McCartney.

Limo & guard

ITV provides security for the presenters, and a small detail met her at Gold Coast Airport after she took a short internal flight from Sydney. Her driver and guard have been at her side ever since. Co-presenter Dec and his wife Ali — who have brought out their infant daughter Isla — get the same treatment.

ITV provides security for the presenters, with Holly Willoughby and Declan Donnelly (pictured together) both getting a driver and guard

Five-star spa

Holly is understood to be staying in a luxury apartment complex on the coast outside Kingscliff — as is Dec.

However she has been spending time at the newly opened five-star Halcyon Hotel in Kingscliff.

The presenters of I'm A Celebrity's ITV2 spin-off Extra Camp, including comedian Joel Dommett and Scarlett Moffatt, stay at the Halcyon. Holly's closest aides, Angie Smith, Patsy O'Neill and Emily Page, are all thought to be staying there, too.

Holly enjoyed a treatment in the Halcyon spa and shared a picture of herself sunbathing, reclining on one of the hotel's distinctive blue and white towels.

There had been speculation that she was staying at the Palazzo Versace but that is an hour from the camp and given the 2am alarm calls, and 7am live shows, it's simply too far away to be a practical option.

The celebrities stay at that hotel after they are evicted, with their families.

Holly-pluggaby!

And don't forget the outfits — all worn just the once but helpfully plugged by Holly and her team....

SUNDAY'S LAUNCH

Blouse £475, skirt £510, studded belt £350, all Isabel Marant; hiking boots £255, Grenson.

MONDAY

T-shirt, Rag & Bone, £95, skirt, Ganni, £160, necklace, Kirstie Le Marque, £350, boots, Russell & Bromley, £295.

TUESDAY

Tartan dress, All Saints, £128, Grenson boots £250, Isabel Marant belt £350.

WEDNESDAY

Denim shirt, Ba&sh, £165, denim skirt, Madewell, £43.99,

Nanette hiking boots, Grenson, £250, overcoat, Chloe, £1,890.

THURSDAY

Print shirt, Sandro Paris, £260, Maje leather skirt, £345,

America biker boots, Topshop on sale, £65.

TOTAL SO FAR FOR FIVE DAYS OF CLOTHES: £6,236.99

====== 1345 ========

AJ PRITCHARD AND LAUREN STEADMAN TAKE A BREAK FROM TRAINING TO ENJOY A SPOT OF LUNCH AT WAGAMAMAS

They narrowly avoided elimination from Strictly Come Dancing last week after receiving the lowest score from the judges.

Yet AJ Pritchard and Lauren Steadman proved they were moving forward as they headed for a cosy lunch at a London branch of Wagamama on Wednesday.

Looking casual in a blue T-shirt and black cap, 24-year-old AJ looked content with partner Lauren, 25, as they both tucked into a bowl of noodles.

Cosy: AJ Pritchard, 24, and Lauren Steadman, 25, put their low scores behind them as they headed for a cosy lunch at Wagamama in London on Wednesday

Paralympian Lauren cut a casual figure in an all-grey ensemble with white Converse as she sipped on a glass of water in the midst of their meal.

Gentleman AJ then put his arm around his partner as they left the restaurant while he wrapped up warm in a bright orange Superdry hoodie while Lauren opted for a navy blue puffer jacket with a fur detail on the hood.

AJ, who was linked to his partner Mollie King last year, earlier sparked rumours of romance with Lauren after he told the Mirror: 'You never know what's going to happen in the future'.

Casual chic: Gentleman AJ then put his arm around his partner as they left the restaurant while wrapped up warm in a bright orange Superdry hoodie while Lauren opted for a navy blue puffer jacket with a fur detail on the hood as she clutched a cup of coffee

Speaking to the paper earlier this week, he said: 'I am very protective of Lauren because we have worked so close together...

'There are different things that she will talk about in training that she would never talk about on camera...

'It's for that reason that we have grown so close together and we will be friends for life and who knows in the future. You never know what is going to happen.'

It comes as Lauren will be fighting for her place in the competition after getting just 25 with her Argentine Tango to 'River' by Bishop Briggs, leaving Lauren as one of the favourites to leave the competition along with Graeme Swann and Charles Venn.

Despite giving it her all the performance earned a mixed reception from the panel, who said that while she got the technique right, the performance missed the sizzling chemistry.

Bruno said: 'It's watching a little girl growing up in front of your eyes, all dark and moody and scary, I love the intent you put into the dance, but it lacked a little bit of fluidity and intimacy...

Fighting to stay: Lauren will be fighting for her place in the competition after getting just 25 with her Argentine Tango to 'River' by Bishop Briggs last weekend

'Imagine a conversation, it's ver,y very grown up and it's very difficult to portray, but you did the best you could with a v difficult dance.'

Darcy added: 'I have to be with the judges here, it's so hard and it did look challenging for you, that extraordinary focus you have, you were putting it solely into the technique and you were really missing that chemistry and passion.

'To have that narrative so each movement has purpose, and for me that was just missing, you just have a little bit time on that one.'

====== 1346 ========

LAUREN GOODGER SHOWCASES HER ENVY-INDUCING BODY TRANSFORMATION IN HER LACE BRA

She often flaunts her fabulous figure on social media with racy snaps to catch her Instagram followers attention.

And Lauren Goodger shared a comparison snap which showed off her amazing body transformation on Instagram on Friday.

The former TOWIE star, 32, proudly displayed her six pound weight loss when she showed off her lean figure in a lace bra and skintight leggings.

She looks fantastic! Lauren Goodger showcased her envy-inducing body transformation in her lace bra on Instagram on Friday after she lost 6lbs in a week

Lauren compared her newly slimmed-down physique to her curvier frame before she embarked on the healthy diet.

The reality star beamed brightly at the camera as she posed for the mirror selfie to display her sensational body transformation.

Lauren credited the Skinny Coffee Club for the 'amazing results' when she informed her 784,000 followers about her weight loss.

Wow: She often flaunts her fabulous figure on social media with racy snaps to catch her Instagram followers attention

She captioned the post: 'So you all saw the AMAZING results I had with @skinnycoffeeclub last month, I lost 6 lbs in just SEVEN days it was insane! It’s been the only diet product I’ve found that’s worked for me.'

The reality star has also honed her phenomenal figure with a tough week-long stint at a boot camp.

Recently, Lauren has kept herself busy with her new business venture — a salon offering fake tans, brows and glamorous makeovers.

Looking amazing! Lauren credited the Skinny Coffee Club for the 'amazing results' when she informed her 784,000 followers about her weight loss

As well as turning her hand at being a make-up artist, the reality star reckons she has a gift for matchmaking people as she launched her own dating app.

Lauren announced on Instagram: 'Making my own dating app!!! Girls and guys keep eyes peeled! I'm going to find you (and me) love'.

The single star has been making the most of her freedom after her bitter split from her ex-jailbird boyfriend Joey Morrison.

====== 1347 ========

FAYE TOZER FLASHES A SMILE AT REHEARSALS AFTER IT TAKES TWO EPISODE LEAVES GIOVANNI FURIOUS

Her Strictly Come Dancing partner couldn't hide his fury when her dancing came under criticism.

But Faye Tozer was all smiles as she headed to rehearsals in London on Friday, looking stylish in a black coat.

The Steps star, 43, looked confident and relaxed ahead of her waltz performance this weekend with Giovanni Pernice.

Feeling confident: Faye Tozer was all smiles as she headed to Strictly Come Dancing rehearsals in London on Friday, just a few days after her pro partner Giovanni Pernice couldn't hide his fury when her dancing came under fire

Faye stepped out in figure hugging black bottoms and a black coat with suede boots.

She kept her blonde hair tucked back from her face and was sporting casual make-up.

Also spotted heading to rehearsals was her Strictly competition, Joe Sugg, 27, clad in a denim jacket and tracksuit while carrying a Burberry suit bag.

The YouTube star and pro partner Dianne Buswell will be taking on commercial and street dance this weekend after scoring three tens last week.

Casual: Faye kept her blonde hair tucked back from her face and was sporting casual make-up

Competition: Also spotted heading to rehearsals was Joe Sugg, 27, who was overjoyed at scoring three tens in the BBC1 show on Saturday

In the zone: Joe and pro partner Dianne Buswell will be taking on commercial and street dance this weekend

On Wednesday's episode of It Takes Two, Giovanni, 28, couldn't hide his fury as Faye's dancing skills came under fire.

The professional dancer sat in the audience as he listened to dance veteran Ian Waite offer his viewpoint but his face turned to thunder when Ian suggested Faye needed to 'be careful' with her foot turns.

Ian joked from the offset that he would have to behave himself when critiquing Faye's recent training, as she and Giovanni are set to dance a waltz on Saturday.

Raging: Giovanni Pernice couldn't hide his fury on Wednesday night, after Faye's dancing was criticised on spin-off It Takes Two

He said: 'This is looking lovely. Gorgeous. Obviously I'm saying that because Giovanni's here,' leading to a small smile from the Italian pro.

Things started nicely enough, but Ian soon offered a more cutthroat view of the routine, suggesting that Faye be more aware of her foot turns when doing heel leads in the fluid dance.

He said: 'What I did notice here - be careful Faye - because sometimes you turn your foot out too much so you don't get your lovely heel leads in there.'

Views: The awkward moment came as pro Ian Waite was offering his critique on each of the couples

Explosive: Fellow Strictly pro Ian Waite offered his views on Giovanni and Faye's waltz training, leaving Giovanni furious when Faye was told she needed to 'be careful' with her feet

Immediately the camera cut to Giovanni showcasing his furious face while Faye laughed alongside him.

Trying to salvage the situation Ian quickly added: 'It's only some of them,' while Giovanni continued his angry expression.

It comes after Faye and Giovanni left viewers hot under the collar over the weekend with a sizzling paso doble, wowing the audience with the fiery routine in Blackpool's Tower Ballroom.

Getting into shape: Earlier in the show, Faye and Giovanni showed off their holding position, as they prepare to dance a waltz this Saturday

Complete with plenty of fire displays and bull fighting-esque movements, her performance left everyone struggling to catch their breath.

Darcy gushed: 'Beautiful strong delivery, dramatic attack but what you kept was that femininity and that was difficult, that is hard when the music is so powerful, and you have to keep that with the action of the movements, that extraordinary straight lift. Being passed around, really well controlled.'

Bruno added: 'I'm still steaming like a pressure cooker but I have to say the dynamic and structure of the dance was superb, every partner is different, but this was one was the paso dominatrix.'

This resulted in yet another high score from the duo, with 38 points out of 40 and left viewers at home gobsmacked by the pair's sizzling performance.

====== 1348 ========

CHRISTINE LAMPARD SIPS ON A COCKTAIL AS SHE ENJOYS GIRLS LUNCH IN LONDON

She became a mother to baby girl Patricia in September.

And Christine Lampard enjoyed a rare break from parenthood as she partook in a lunch with friends at Isabel restaurant in Mayfair on Friday,

The presenter, 39, looked radiant as she sipped on a cocktail while chatting with a pal over the meal.

Happy:Christine Lampard enjoyed a rare break from parenthood as she partook in a lunch with friends at Isabel restaurant in Mayfair on Friday

She looked chic in a black high-necked dress which revealed her lithe figure shortly after becoming a mother.

Her raven tresses were styled in loose waves while her pretty features were enhanced with feline flicks of liner, peachy blush and a rose lipstick.

The star was happy as she sipped on her drink, which could have been a non-alcoholic mocktail, before laughing.

Radiant: The presenter, 39, looked radiant as she sipped on a cocktail while chatting with a pal over the meal.

Cheers: She looked chic in a black high-necked dress which revealed her lithe figure shortly after becoming a mother

She wrapped up in the winter chill with a slate grey three-quarter length coat and boosted her height with knee-high leather boots.

This comes after Christine gave fans a rare glimpse of Patricia as she took the tot to a 'baby massage class.'

Taking to Instagram the TV presenter shared a snap from the class where little Patricia's head could just be seen, joking in the caption that the plastic baby alongside her 'wasn't so sure.'

Christine welcomed her first child with husband Frank in September three years after tying the knot, and the star seems to be reveling in motherhood two months after giving birth.

Chic: She wrapped up in the winter chill with a slate grey three-quarter length coat and boosted her height with knee-high leather boots

Strut: The star was joined by a fashionable pal for the lunch date

Looking good: Christine looked happy as she chatted with her pal

Elegance: The new mother made her way home in style

Sweet:This comes after Christine gave fans a rare glimpse of Patricia as she took the tot to a 'baby massage class'

In the social media snap, little Patricia's head can just be seen in the corner of the screen, as she lies on a mat alongside a plastic doll in the class.

Christine captioned the snap: 'I’ve got a very contented little baby after our first baby massage class. Max the little training doll isn’t so sure! You’re the best @bubba.club @katia_sergeeva.'

The Loose Women star welcomed her first child with husband Frank in September, and took to social media to share a snap of her cradling the little one in her hospital bed.

Proud: The 39-year-old presenter welcomed her first child with husband Frank in September, and the couple announced the little one's birth with a sweet hospital snap (above)

As the post was flooded with congratulatory messages from fans and celebrity friends alike, the caption read: 'Let us introduce you to our little girl. Patricia Charlotte Lampard! We’re so in love.'

Christine had waited until she was five months along to officially announce that she was expecting, and ahead of giving birth she told the Loose Women panel that she and Frank had decided not to find out the sex beforehand.

She said: 'I still don't want to know the gender. I think there are not enough surprises in the world anymore.

'I'm totally old fashioned. We obviously don't care whether it's a boy or a girl so I think let's find out on the day.'

Loved-up: Christine and former football star Frank tied the knot in 2015 after a four year engagement

Christine and Frank's love story goes way back with the lovebirds first meeting at the Pride of Britain Awards in 2009.

Frank then proposed while the couple enjoyed a holiday in America in 2011 with a ring estimated to be worth in excess of £120,000.

The couple had a four-year engagement before tying the knot at Saint Paul's Church in Knightsbridge, central London, in December 2015.

====== 1349 ========

LOVE ISLAND'S KENDALL RAE KNIGHT SHOWS OFF RESULTS OF SECRET NOSE JOB IN TURKEY BUT DIVIDES FANS

She is a reality beauty who has admitted to having Botox treatments in the past.

And Kendall Rae Knight gave fans a glimpse of her nose job in a series of pictures on Thursday.

The Love Island star, 26, shared snaps with 800,000 followers who were quick to notice the change in her face, which was confirmed by a Instagram video from Elite Cosmetic Surgery in Turkey on Thursday.

Notice the difference? Kendall Rae Knight underwent rhinoplasty treatment at the Elite Cosmetic Surgery in Turkey who posted this picture 14 days after the Love Island star's surgery

The surgery took to social media with a picture of Kendall's nose before and after and the caption: 'Amazing Rhinoplasty result performed by @dr.yigit.tiftikcioglu. This is 14 days post op watch out for @kendallraeknight journey coming soon [sic]'.

Eagle-eyed fans also noticed the difference in Kendall's nose in her latest Instagram pictures, with one saying: 'You were so pretty shame you succumbed to the insta pressure & had your nose done'.

And another: 'New nose! Wow' but many were less than thrilled 'I don’t get it, your preaching about embracing insecurities yet you’ve had a nose job [sic]'.

Before and after: Eagle-eyed fans also noticed the difference in Kendall's nose in her latest Instagram pictures

Divided: Kendall's social media followers can't make up their mind on her new nose

The negative comments come as Kendall posted a selfie of herself captioned: 'I won't wear makeup on Thursday. I'm sick of covering up. I'm tired of feeling so broken. I'm tired of falling in love.

Sometimes I'm shy and I'm anxious. Sometimes I'm down on my knees. Sometimes I try to embrace all my insecurities. So I won't wear makeup on Thursday. 'Cause who I am is enough,' from the Jess Glynne song Thursday.

Kendall's before and after picture showed her new nose to be longer and having less of an arch.

Flaunt it: Kendall looks pleased with the results of her surgery despite the negative comments

Insta-career: Kendall often takes to Instagram to promote products and clothes and after the surgery was back to social media but is yet to mention the rhinoplasty to her fans

Kendall often takes to Instagram to promote products and clothes and after the surgery was back to social media but is yet to mention the rhinoplasty to her fans.

The brunette beauty recently unveiled her collaboration with Boohoo after she found fame, not love, on this year's Love Island.

And despite being spotted on a late night date with Kem Cetinay following an appearance on spin-off show Love Island After Sun, it appears that too fizzled out.

====== 1350 ========

JOHN LENNON PLAYED IMAGINE FOR WRITER RAY CONNOLLY AT HIS HOME IN BERKSHIRE

John Lennon tricked me when he first played Imagine to me. I was at his Tittenhurst Park estate in Berkshire one Saturday afternoon in 1971, when he told me he wanted me to hear his new single.

Taking me into his and Yoko’s bedroom, where you always went for a private conversation, he pulled out an old Dansette record player – because he couldn’t get his new hi-fi system to work – and put the pick-up down on an unlabelled disc.

The first song he played was Gimme Some Truth and I was disappointed. It sounded like a wordy rant, that was thin on melody, and unlikely to be the hit I knew he wanted.

So, when it was finished, I asked him what was on the flip side. At which point he turned the record over and played me Imagine.

Writer Ray Connolly has recalled the day John Lennon played him Imagine in Yoko Ono's room at their home in Tittenhurst Park, Berkshire. Pictured John and Yoko in 1971

The album (pictured) is the subject of a Channel 4 film, Above Us Only Sky, that revisits the thousands of feet of film shot during its recording

I was puzzled. ‘Shouldn’t that be on the A-side,’ I wanted to know. He smiled. Of course, he knew very well that it would be the A-side and the title of his new album as well. He’d been teasing me. Or maybe testing?

Whatever the reason, Imagine was John at his best, turning a slogan into a song and an enduring source for newspaper headline writers. A few years earlier the slogan had been All You Need Is Love, and, after that, Give Peace A Chance.

But this was better than those. In Imagine he’d come up with a non-religious anthem of brotherly love that promoted hope for a time without religious, political or wealth differences between people.

‘Imagine there’s no heaven, it’s easy if you try,’ he sang in the first of a litany of peace-making suggestions that would not only touch a worldwide nerve in those days of the war in Vietnam, but would have an enduring after-life.

Sung in ceremonies at least three Olympic Games and at countless anti-war demonstrations, it was played in the film The Killing Fields, and has been recorded by more than 200 artists including Stevie Wonder and Lady Gaga.

In most recent memory, Imagine was played by a German pianist outside the Bataclan in Paris on the day after the murder there of 90 rock concert-goers by terrorists.

Ray (pictured) said that Imagine was 'John at his best'

Forty-seven years on from its release, Imagine remains John Lennon’s best-known solo song. Now the focus of a newly packaged album and book, it is also the subject of a Channel 4 film, Above Us Only Sky, that revisits the thousands of feet of film shot during its recording and includes previously unheard audio, including the first demo of Imagine, as well as footage of John and Yoko working together which has never been aired before.

That period in 1971 was a crucial one for the ex-Beatle. After breaking up the most adored rock group in the world and then having to watch as his first solo album, Plastic Ono Band, was received with smaller sales than anticipated, the new record had to be special.

To achieve this, he decided to record at home. After having a recording studio built on to his house, his band – George Harrison on guitar, Nicky Hopkins on piano, Klaus Voormann on bass and Alan White on drums (Ringo was away on holiday) – came to him, and co-producer Phil Spector turned up with a stoned actor, Dennis Hopper, in tow on the first day.

With the album arranged in John’s head, recording took just a few days. The song Imagine was done on the first day. With John playing his new white Steinway piano, he sang it just three times, and the second version was chosen for release.

There were other good tracks on the album. Jealous Guy became a Lennon evergreen, and country and western song Crippled Inside was fun. But nothing had the potency of Imagine.

The spark for the song emanated from a few whimsical instructions in Yoko Ono’s book Grapefruit, such as ‘Imagine letting a goldfish swim across the sky’. From that, and other suggestions to imagine the impossible, her husband had gone on to fashion his anthem.

John would only ever perform Imagine twice in public. But the day after his murder in December 1980, thousands of fans sang it in mourning outside his New York home. And people are still singing it today.

John & Yoko: Above Us Only Sky, tonight, 8.30pm, Channel 4. Ray’s new biography, Being John Lennon – A Restless Life, is out now.

====== 1351 ========

MEGHAN MARKLE'S ROYAL WEDDING HOTEL CLIVEDEN HOUSE OPENS DOORS TO TV CAMERAS FOR FIRST TIME

When staff at Cliveden House were told to prepare for the arrival of a VIP earlier this year, it led to a frenzy of speculation. Was it a Hollywood star? A member of the royal family?

In fact, it was – give or take 24 hours – a fusion of both in the shape of Meghan Markle, who chose the five-star country house hotel in Buckinghamshire as the venue for her last night as a commoner.

Little wonder there was a bit of crowing among the staff, as Cliveden’s butler Michael confides. ‘We thought we’d pulled the plum on that one,’ he recalls.

It meant that for a few hours, the eyes of the world were on the Grade I-listed hotel as Meghan and her mother Doria arrived on a spring afternoon ahead of Meghan’s wedding to Prince Harry the next day, 19 May.

Those glimpses of the hotel’s stunning architecture and sweeping grounds are the closest most of us would have thought we were likely to get to Cliveden, whose 48 luxury rooms and suites cost anything up to £1,500 a night. But now, for the first time in its 350-year history, the hotel has allowed TV cameras inside.

The hotel that hosted Meghan Markle and her mother Doria Ragland the night before the royal wedding has opened its doors to TV cameras for the first time

The result is a four-part documentary series that offers an insight into how the other half live – and party.

Meghan is arguably the most high-profile guest to date, although Cliveden – originally built in the 1600s by the Duke of Buckingham – has no shortage of glamorous alumni: it has hosted everyone from Churchill and Charlie Chaplin to JFK, not to mention politician John Profumo, whose affair with Christine Keeler started here after a chance meeting by the pool.

News of that scandal cemented Cliveden’s reputation as a playground for the aristocracy – although since becoming a hotel in 1985 it has welcomed all, as Michael, who has worked there for a quarter of a century, says.

‘When I first came here it was old majors and bottles of port and rah rah rah, and now it’s people with children and Range Rovers. Years ago if you were born into the upper class that’s where you stayed but now it’s money that delineates the levels of the system. You might be Russian or a lottery winner – we treat everyone the same.’

The ‘Meghan effect’, as staff call it, now means the phone lines are busier than ever – ‘Meghan made it cool again,’ a guest tells the cameras – with many of the enquiries about weddings. With even a modest ceremony and reception costing tens of thousands of pounds, they are big business for the hotel, as wedding coordinator Lydia says.

Cliveden House, the five-star country house hotel in Buckinghamshire, was filmed for a four-part documentary series that offers an insight into how the other half live – and party

‘The most expensive one I’ve organised was the best part of a million pounds,’ she says. ‘We had bands, boat cruises, rosé champagne flowing like a waterfall. And I had one bride who wanted to come in on elephant back.’ The bar bills for these events sometimes run into six figures.

The stream of international guests arriving to enjoy the British summer season also helps keep the corks popping, although porter Philip divulges, ‘The hardest guests to deal with are the Russians as they don’t know how to say thank you and they don’t look you in the eye.’

The prize for the most luggage goes to the Americans, who average four cases each. They’re also the richest, Philip says – but often the most impressed by the hotel.

‘It’s like living in Downton Abbey,’ one guest says, as she eats in the 18th-century dining room. A real-life Downton Abbey which, courtesy of the new Duchess of Sussex, can now officially say it has royal approval.

A Very British Country House, tomorrow, 9pm, Channel 4.

====== 1352 ========

KATE GARRAWAY RUNS AWAY AS BEN SHEPHARD TERRORISES HER WITH A SNAKE

Kate Garraway was terrified when Ben Shephard terrorised her with a snake just minutes after a giant millipede urianted on him on Good Morning Britain on Friday.

The presenter, 51, recoiled in terror when she came face-to-face with the wriggling reptile as GMB got swept up in I'm A Celeb fever.

Horrified Kate nearly fell off her chair when her co-presenter Ben, 43, tormented her with the scaly serpent wrapped around his hands.

Scroll down for video



Hilarious: Kate Garraway ran away as Ben Shephard terrorised her with a snake after a millipede urinated on him... as GMB got swept up in I'm A Celeb fever on Friday

The breakfast host's jaw dropped when she confronted her fears on live TV.

Good Morning Britain's Kate begged for her tormentor to stop as she said in protest: 'No, no, no Lorraine!'

Before Ben decided to give his co-host a fright, he bravely handled some of the jungle critters himself.

Funny times: Before Ben decided to give his co-host a fright, he bravely handled some of the jungle critters himself

Face your fears: The presenter recoiled in terror when she came face-to-face with the wriggling reptile as GMB got swept up in I'm A Celeb fever

The former The Xtra Factor presenter's hands were covered in millipede wee after the bug snaked across his palms.

He announced: 'It's weeing on me! I’m covered in millipede wee. I need sanitiser.'

Kate responded with the cheeky quip: 'I quite like him now. He’s treated you with the respect you deserve. Well done.'

Sheer terror: Horrified Kate nearly fell off her chair when her co-presenter Ben tormented her with the scaly serpent wrapped around his hands

Screaming for help: The breakfast host begged for her tormentor to stop as she said in protest: 'No, no, no Lorraine!'

Yuck: The former The Xtra Factor presenter's hands were covered in millipede wee after the bug snaked across his palms

During Thursday's I'm A Celeb, Noel Edmonds caused quite a stir when he made his late arrival into the star-studded camp.

Earlier in November, Piers Morgan joked about Kate jetting off to the snake-infested jungle in Australia to compete on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here.

The outspoken presenter admitted he would tune in to watch the shower scenes.

But Kate responded: 'I thought you'd like to see me buried underground with all of the creepy crawlies!'

Hanging out: During Thursday's I'm A Celeb, Noel Edmonds caused quite a stir when he made his late arrival into the star-studded camp

On the screen! Ollie Locke also got involved in the I'm A Celeb-inspired trial

Squeamish! The former Made In Chelsea star looked terrified when he took part in the Bushtucker Trial-inspired event on Good Morning Britain

Horror: Ollie recoiled in fear when he came face-to-face with the snake

====== 1353 ========

THE LITTLE DRUMMER GIRL'S AUTHOR JOHN LE CARRÉ IS JUST AS COMPLEX AS ANY OF HIS CHARACTERS

Sunday night is le Carré night. Ever since Tom Hiddleston soared to superstardom in The Night Manager, all glamorous resorts and high-tension thrills, the nation has been agog for more spies, seduction and gun-play.

The Little Drummer Girl – set in the brutal Seventies as the Cold War and international terrorism collided – has gripped millions with its complex double-crosses and deceptions.

As we await the penultimate episode tomorrow, the thriller has proved to be vintage John le Carré, with a twist: none of his other novels has a heroine at the centre of the story, taking on the macho world of espionage and beating the spymasters at their own game.

The intensely stylish start was, perhaps inevitably, baffling. Israeli secret agents trailed Palestinian bomb-makers, while an ominously silent stranger stalked a British actress on a Greek isle. It all ended in a high-speed ride as wary romantic Charlie (Florence Pugh) found her date in Athens with the monosyllabic Gadi (Alexander Skarsgard) turning into an abduction.

But patterns have gradually emerged. The machinations of Mossad masterspy Martin Kurtz (Michael Shannon) have propelled Charlie deeper into the murderous world of Middle East politics.

The Little Drummer Girl, starring Alexander Skarsgard and Florence Pugh (seen together), has gripped millions with its complex double-crosses and deceptions

The author behind the show - John Le Carre, picture with his son Simon Cornwell (left) and star Alexander Skarsgard (right) - is just as complex as his characters

Last week saw her interrogated at gunpoint, then kidnapped in Beirut and thrown into the boot of a car – taken to meet shadowy figure Fatmeh (Lubna Azabal), who seems to wield more control over the terrorist cell than anyone had guessed.

As the credits rolled, viewers were desperate for more, if somewhat baffled by some of the smoke and mirrors. But while the TV drama has sometimes been difficult to fathom, the life of its creator is ten times more mysterious.

Le Carré is a compulsive storyteller – and as his sons Simon and Stephen explain today, that can make him hard to know. The legend often obscures the truth... sometimes deliberately.

For a start, John le Carré, now 87, is not the writer’s real name. He was born David Cornwell, in 1931 in Poole, Dorset, but by the time he published his first novel, aged 30, he’d been working for British intelligence for seven years, ostensibly with the Foreign Service.

His controllers didn’t like to see their agents writing books – he once revealed, ‘Even if it were about butterflies, they said, I’d have to choose a pseudonym.’

With typical sleight of hand, Cornwell claims he chose le Carré because he saw the name over a tailor’s shop and liked it – then admits, in the same breath, that this is a lie he tells to satisfy nosy parkers.

His father Ronnie was a small-time fraudster and serial philanderer who liked to boast he was friendly with the Kray twins. When David was two years old, his father was sent to prison; when he was five, his mother Olive walked out on the family.

After a series of brutal boarding schools, he went to university in Bern, Switzerland, where he was recruited in 1950 by the British Army Intelligence Corps.

‘One of my jobs was trawling through displaced-persons camps in Austria, looking for people who were fake refugees,’ he has said. They were actually Communist spies, and the Army sent some back behind the Iron Curtain as double agents.

This notion of recruiting and inverted loyalties would become a constant theme of his novels.

Cornwell switched to MI5 while studying at Oxford, where he mingled with Communist activists and reported what he heard. After a stint teaching German at Millfield and Eton public schools, he returned to ‘diplomatic duty’, first with MI5 and then MI6 – a period that he now dismisses disingenuously as ‘a few years spooking around’.

Le Carré (pictured with his family in 1964) was born David Cornwell, in 1931 in Poole, Dorset, but by the time he published his first novel, aged 30, he’d been working for British intelligence for seven years

After his third novel, The Spy Who Came In From The Cold, became a bestseller, he left the intelligence services to become a full-time writer, leading a nomadic life around Europe with his first wife Ann and their three sons Simon, Stephen and Timothy.

Divorced in 1971, he remarried the following year to Valerie, an editor with his publishers. Today, the couple live near Penzance in Cornwall.

After more than half a century of producing bestsellers such as Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy, le Carré is intensely protective of his work. The idea of updating his novels for television might seem too daunting, but was made easier because the production company that owns the rights is run by two of his own sons.

Simon and younger brother Stephen set up The Ink Factory, a production company for video games as well as TV and films, in 2010. They made Our Kind Of Traitor, another le Carré adaptation, for the cinema in 2016, but it was The Night Manager that brought the breakthrough, in the same year.

Le Carré was initially dubious. He disliked the idea of giving arms dealer Richard Roper (Hugh Laurie) a Majorcan villa for his HQ instead of a superyacht, and of turning his villainous customers into Arab warlords instead of Colombian drugs barons.

Most of all, he was concerned to see his chief spy Leonard Burr become Angela, played by a heavily pregnant Olivia Colman.

But the novelist was eventually persuaded by his sons, and became so keen on the mini-series that he played a cameo – as a wealthy tourist, drinking a vodka martini at a restaurant table who is stunned by a Roper tantrum.

Vodka martini, of course, was James Bond’s drink of choice. That’s a typically subtle le Carré joke: he despises Bond, dismissing him as a an international gangster’ and insisting that Ian Fleming’s novels shouldn’t even be classed as spy thrillers. In the world of John le Carré, even the drinks aren’t what they seem.

So what was it like, growing up with such a brilliant but complex man for a father... and then going into business with him? Here, his sons reveal their ambitions and fears in bringing le Carré’s work to the TV screen, and what it was like growing up as the sons of the Tinker Tailor man...

The Little Drummer Girl, tomorrow, 9pm, BBC1.

Life with Dad is a thriller

by le Carré’s sons, Simon & Stephen Cornwell

HAVING A FAMOUS NOVELIST FOR A FATHER

Every child loves listening to stories. We were lucky – our father told them for a living. We travelled around Europe as we were growing up, living for a while in Crete and other places, and Dad told us stories.

Sometimes he made them up. Sometimes he took them from books. Occasionally, as we got older, he would read to us from the novel he was working on... It was a very special part of our upbringing.

He was always a master of anecdotes. But we weren’t properly aware until we were a bit older that Dad wasn’t only our father, David Cornwell: he was also somebody called John le Carré.

That didn’t affect us at the time: le Carré was a remote notion to us, just Dad’s nom de plume.

John was eventually persuaded by his sons to play a cameo in the Night Manager – as a wealthy tourist, drinking a vodka martini at a restaurant table who is stunned by a Roper tantrum. Pictured: Le Carré (centre, in blue shirt) in his cameo role in The Night Manager

It wasn’t until we were much older that we realised what a deep effect his storytelling had on us and the way we saw the world. That’s how our family communicated, and still does: through stories.

As we were growing up, Dad taught us how to see the narratives that exist in the real world. Stories aren’t just for fiction. There are characters all around us.

And now we have children of our own, we hear them asking him questions – there’s a difference to the questions that grandchildren ask their grandparents – and Dad is open with his answers. It makes us realise how smart and self-aware he actually is.

Any reader can guess he’s a clever man, but his emotional intelligence is extraordinary. All of that is crystallised in The Little Drummer Girl.

WHY WE CHOSE THE LITTLE DRUMMER GIRL

After we had such a success with The Night Manager in 2016, we wanted to make something equally ambitious. The Little Drummer Girl is a big book, about 660 pages, and like The Night Manager it travels all over the place – from West Germany to London, Greece and beyond.

It has amazing characters that leap off the page, and in particular – uniquely for a le Carré novel – it has a strong female protagonist at its core.

That gives the story a timely, relevant feel. But at the same time, it’s deeply rooted in the late Seventies, when the novel is set. We updated The Night Manager to the present day, to keep it innovative.

We didn’t actually sit down and discuss the choice with our father. We didn’t have to: we knew that this novel is very close to his heart, and he’s eager to see it brought to new audiences.

That could only be done properly through television. A feature film is too short to do it justice.

Like almost all Dad’s writing, The Little Drummer Girl is prescient, and although it’s set 40 years ago it feels contemporary and very relevant to today. That’s because, although he draws on his past experiences, our father lives very much in the present.

John Le Carre taught his sons how to see the narratives that exist in the real world, and that stories aren’t just for fiction

He’s 87, and he’s constantly surrounded by the day’s papers as well as history books. He has a double perspective, and that enables him to see where things are going.

If you sit down for a conversation with him, you’d better be prepared to talk about what’s happening now. He’s been a hugely successful and influential novelist for more than half a century, and a major reason for that is his constant focus on the here and now.

It’s the current choices that humanity faces, the immediate dilemmas we face, that fascinate him and always have done.

WORKING WITH OUR FATHER

Getting a major TV series right is always nerve-wracking... especially when the author is your father. We always want to work closely with authors when we adapt books, and we want to get it right because you only get that one chance.

But we wouldn’t be human if extra pressure was not added by the fact these are our dad’s books. It definitely adds an extra dimension. If things went wrong, the next family dinner might be awkward!

Luckily, this is a golden age for television drama. Only five years ago, it was rare for major films stars to want to do TV. Now, they all do.

We’re able to get great directors – on The Little Drummer Girl, it was the brilliant South Korean filmmaker Park Chan-wook. He was able to attract a stellar cast, including Florence Pugh as Charlie, Alexander Skarsgard as the mysterious stranger who lures her into danger, and Michael Shannon as Kurtz the spymaster.

This golden age is the perfect foundation for adaptations of le Carré. A big budget mini-series with high production values enables us to bring out all the subtleties of the characters and the tale-telling.

The books deserve it. Spending lots of money isn’t an automatic recipe for success, but it’s such a privilege to be translating our father’s work to the screen that we couldn’t hold back. These books are in our DNA, after all.

Le Carré's sons would love to do a second series of The Night Manager, but the stars, including Tom Hiddleston, are in high demand and scheduling is too tricky at the moment

WHAT'S NEXT?

Everybody asks whether there’ll be a second series of The Night Manager. The answer is, we don’t know – at the moment.

The stars – Tom Hiddleston, Olivia Colman, Hugh Laurie – are all in such demand that scheduling is tricky. And the story has to be a really good one.

Of course we’d love to do it though! Meanwhile, we’re also getting excited about the prospect of making The Spy Who Came In From The Cold for television.

That is a challenge, because there is already a film version, starring Richard Burton and Claire Bloom. It came out more than 50 years ago but many still say it’s one of the greatest spy movies ever. The bar is set high.

We love the idea of a TV version, as it comes very close to the start of the George Smiley series that forms the core of le Carré’s work. And if The Spy Who... was a success, we’d inevitably want to continue – and remake The Looking Glass War, Tinker, Tailor and Smiley’s People, as well as tackling the other great books in the series such as The Honourable Schoolboy and A Legacy Of Spies.

The challenge would be to capture the period detail, and retain their relevance to today, just as with The Little Drummer Girl.

To do that, we’d have to find an actor who could match Alec Guinness as Smiley. Who might that be? Suggestions on a postcard please...

====== 1354 ========

VIC REEVES AND BOB MORTIMER EXPLAIN WHY THEY'RE BRINGING BIG NIGHT OUT BACK

When Vic Reeves and Bob Mortimer first crashed onto our TV screens with their unique brand of surreal comedy almost 30 years ago, not everyone was impressed. Among the complaints to broadcaster Channel 4 about their show Vic Reeves Big Night Out was a telephone rant from viewer Matt Lucas, then a 16-year-old schoolboy, who found the whole thing so bizarre he was convinced these newcomers would have no future.

But when he tuned in the following week to see if the show was as bad as he remembered, he decided that, actually, he was watching pure comedy genius. And, of course, within a few years he was starring alongside the pair dressed in a romper suit as George Dawes, the man with the scores, on arguably their most popular show Shooting Stars.

But then Vic and former solicitor Bob, now both 59, have always had a slightly Marmite quality. Big Night Out, a bizarre parody of variety shows, which saw Vic sitting at a desk talking gibberish while intro-ducing barmy guest acts, often played by Bob, became a cult hit in 1990 and they’ve rarely been off the box since.

Their shows have included Bang Bang, It’s Reeves And Mortimer, Monkey Trousers, House Of Fools and of course Shooting Stars – a spoof panel show with Ulrika Jonsson and Mark Lamarr as team captains playing ever dafter rounds and challenges. Now the pair are bringing Big Night Out back for its first new series since 1991.

Vic Reeves and Bob Mortimer are bringing Big Night Out back for its first new series since 1991

The pair have occasionally veered into straight acting, most notably with their remake of fantasy crime series Randall & Hopkirk (Deceased) in 2000. Pictured: the pair with Emilia Fox in the show

Of course, much has changed since then. But while comedy is now either political or observational, Vic & Bob – the last of the double acts – still prefer pratfalls, slapstick, nonsense and bashing each other over the head with saucepans.

When we meet today in central London they toss jokes around like hot potatoes and finish each other’s sentences, basically trying to make each other laugh, which is the essence of their shows. ‘There are no other double acts any more,’ declares Vic sadly.

‘There was the Chuckle Brothers, but one of them has gone now. So now there’s only us left.’

They first met when Bob, a solicitor from Middlesbrough who was stuck in a soul-destroying job at Southwark council in London, saw Vic performing a comedy set in a south London pub. Vic, then an art student, was wearing a Bryan Ferry mask and tap dancing with planks attached to his feet.

Barmy yes, but Bob was hooked and they were soon writing sketches together – inspired by their comedy heroes such as Laurel and Hardy and Morecambe and Wise – and performing them on the burgeoning comedy circuit.

‘We’re just childish,’ explains Bob. ‘Our comedy is just falling over, funny faces, arguments... all the comedy basics, really.’

Vic thinks their secret is that they avoid anything remotely topical or relevant. ‘You’d never have had Tommy Cooper or Les Dawson asking, “What does everyone think of Brexit?” We don’t bother with real life.’

They’ve occasionally veered into straight acting, most notably with their remake of fantasy crime series Randall & Hopkirk (Deceased) in 2000. A comedy drama four years later, Catterick, was short-lived, while Vic’s sitcom Hebburn, set in his native North East, ran for two series from 2012.

Pushing 60 now though, the former young rebels of the comedy world admit they scratch their heads at some of what passes for entertainment today. ‘There’s that bloke Joe Sugg on Strictly Come Dancing,’ announces Bob, a self-proclaimed telly addict.

‘He’s a YouTuber with 8 million subscribers. My kids watch him. I took against him because he has a long neck and a very haughty attitude. I looked at his – I think they’re called blogs [actually they’re vlogs]. They were about half an hour long but nothing happens.’

‘Nothing at all?’ exclaims Vic.

While comedy is now either political or observational, Vic & Bob – the last of the double acts – still prefer pratfalls, slapstick, nonsense and bashing each other over the head with saucepans. Pictured: the pair with George Ezra on the show

Bob nods sadly. ‘He just does stuff like go on a boat trip and shout “Heeeeyyyyy” and “Woooooow” a lot. I watched it and felt very old.

‘I felt like the people who felt uncomfortable – like Matt Lucas – when they watched Big Night Out for the first time and thought, “What is that all about?” Clearly people are seeing something, but I don’t understand which bit I’m meant to be enjoying, or where I’d laugh or be intrigued.’

There’s no such problem with Vic & Bob’s Big Night Out, which is as madcap and downright bonkers as ever. ‘The BBC asked if we’d like to do a sketch show and we said, “Why don’t we do a studio show like we used to do with Big Night Out?”’ says Vic.

‘They told us we could do what we wanted – so we did.’ A pilot on BBC2 last Christmas was one of the channel’s highest-rated comedies of the year, and this four-episode series offers more of the same.

‘If we look like a couple of morons, we’ve done it right,’ says Vic, while Bob adds, ‘I never craved having people leave a show saying, “He’s really intelligent, isn’t he?” I didn’t watch Tommy Cooper and think, “Oh, he’s so bright.” He just made me laugh.’

On screen it’s a laugh every 30 seconds, but off screen they admit they’re feeling their age. Bob, who has two children with his wife Lisa, had an emergency triple heart bypass in 2015, forcing him and Vic to cancel a 25th anniversary UK tour.

At the time he revealed that his doctor told him he risked having a heart attack on stage had he gone on the tour, as his arteries were 95 per cent blocked. ‘He looked at the tour schedule and said I’d most likely have gone down in Southampton,’ he joked.

The tour finally took place four months later, but it was a much more sober affair than they were used to. ‘It was the first one we did without drinking,’ recalls Bob.

‘Before it was booze, booze, booze, get up at four and do another show, then back to booze, booze, booze. Sometimes we’d wake up in odd places – on couches in housing estates.

‘So this time we pottered round the country and were in bed by ten. We’d drive for hours to go and see something like the Forth Bridge in Scotland.’

Today he says his heart’s fine, it’s the rest of him he’s worried about. ‘My knees and shoulder are – and I think this is the technical term – b******d,’ he winces.

Earlier this year he presented a gentle documentary series with fellow comic Paul Whitehouse – Mortimer & Whitehouse: Gone Fishing – in which the two went on angling trips and grumbled about their health problems. Much to Bob’s surprise, it was one of the critical hits of the year.

‘When I saw it in the editing suite I was frightened,’ he admits. ‘I phoned our manager and said, “Is there any way I can stop this going out?”

‘But he told me I couldn’t. Looking back, the reason it’s popular is that people can see it’s genuine. And it looks very pretty, which is important too. I hadn’t expected it to do well at all.’

While Bob’s out fishing, Vic (real name Jim Moir, he chose the stage name in honour of his musical heroes Vic Damone and Jim Reeves) is busy with his art and has put on two exhibitions this year.

Pushing 60 now though, the former young rebels of the comedy world admit they scratch their heads at some of what passes for entertainment today

He has four children – two by his first wife Sarah, and twins by second wife Nancy (they appeared on I’m A Celebrity... together in 2004) – and insists he’s fine healthwise, though he claims he suffered heart pains in sympathy with Bob when he was in hospital.

He says he needs to exercise more, and Bob lectures him about looking after his heart, ‘People are dropping all around us,’ says Bob darkly.

Then Vic reveals he has tinnitus – a ringing in the ears – something which appears to come as a surprise to Bob, who begins to ask more questions about it than me. ‘I have bad tinnitus,’ says Vic.

‘I’m not sure if it’s because I was in a band when I was younger. I’ve had it for five or six years. I hear it all the time, but mainly I try to forget about it. We come from a period of history where you think, “Oh, just get on with it, stop complaining.”’

Bob nods in agreement. ‘Yes, we’re cursed with that.’

Aches and pains aside, the pair are hoping the new four-part series will lead to a bigger commission. They’re already working on new material, hammering out ideas in Vic’s kitchen.

‘We used to have this vast office in central London but then we realised we were wasting our money, so we do it in my kitchen now,’ says Vic. ‘We’re near the kettle and Bob has a thing called a laptop, which is a portable computer. You can carry it in a bag and everything.’

Bob interjects. ‘It’s the portability that raises it above a personal computer,’ he says, deadpan. And they’re off again, giggling away like two naughty schoolboys.

Vic & Bob’s Big Night Out, Wednesday, 10pm, BBC4.

====== 1355 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: JOHN BARROWMAN COMES TO BLOWS WITH NOEL EDMONDS

His husband hinted that he will clash with new arrival Noel Edmonds as he rang into spin-off Extra Camp on Wednesday night.

And that prediction seemed to be coming true for John Barrowman as he endured an awkward encounter with the presenting legend on Thursday's episode of I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!

The former Deal or No Deal host, 69, invoked the ire of actor John, 51, on his first day in the camp, as the 'emperor' accused him of scratching his groin as he delegated campmates duties.

Fuming: John Barrowman (L) came to blows with Noel Edmonds on Thursday's episode of I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!

Noel had already ruffled feathers with his late arrival into the camp, with the star appointed Emperor and setting his fellow campmates to work in a Roman gladiators inspired challenge.

After John stood up to ask Noel a question, the star asked John not to scratch his groin when he spoke to him.

An incensed John said he wasn't scratching his groin and was not impressed with the comment.

Talking later in the Bush Telegraph, John let rip at Noel, after his sensational late arrival into the jungle.

Oh dear: The former Deal or No Deal host, 69, invoked the ire of actor John, 51, on his first day in the camp, as the 'emperor' accused him of scratching his groin as he delegated campmates duties

Rage: After John stood up to ask Noel a question, the star asked John not to scratch his groin when he spoke to him. An incensed John said he wasn't scratching his groin and was not impressed with the comment

He said: 'I know he was trying to make a joke and be funny but it didn't land well with me and for that moment I'm probably being overly sensitive and it's at this exact time that my husband would say I need a sandwich.

'It's not his fault and I'm an adult, I know that, it was just that moment and some of us are feeling 'arhhh'.'

This comes after John's husband Scott Gill hinted that the person most likely to rile up John will be the ex Noel's House Party host.

'Didn't land well with me': Talking later in the Bush Telegraph, John let rip at Noel, after his sensational late arrival into the jungle

At odds:This comes after John's husband Scott Gill hinted that the person most likely to rile up John will be the ex Noel's House Party host

Scott - who married John in 2013 after 20 years together - spoke to hosts Joel Dommett and Scarlett Moffatt about the Doctor Who star's time in camp so far, saying he's surprised how well he's taken to the camping side of things.

But the British architect then hinted that John will butt heads with Noel after he arrives in jungle, especially as the veteran presenter will expected to stir up the drama.

Asked whether there's anyone in camp that will irritate John, he said: 'Not yet. I think there may soon be.

'I don't know but I think he's really liking the balance of people in there, they're all meshing really well. When you throw something new into the mix it's always gonna stir, I don't know how he's gonna react to that.'

Controversial: John's husband Scott rang into sister show Extra Camp, where he hinted that the person most likely to irritate the Doctor Who star is yet to enter the jungle

Explosive: Fans will see Noel's dramatic arrival in the jungle on Thursday night, as he takes on the role of jungle emperor

Scott added: 'Noel's a big character, so there is the possibility they're gonna clash which makes for great telly! Sit back and see what happens.'

Fans will see Noel's dramatic arrival in the jungle on Thursday night, as he takes on the role of jungle emperor, pitting the other ten celebrities against each other as gladiators.

The 69-year-old legendary entertainer was confirmed as this year's late arrival on Tuesday, with bosses reportedly offering a £600,000 salary to sign him.

Glamorous: It comes as 2017 jungle champion Georgia Toffolo was on Thursday's This Morning to provide all the latest jungle gossip

It comes as 2017 jungle champion Georgia Toffolo was on Thursday's This Morning to provide all the latest jungle gossip.

The ex-Made In Chelsea star showed off her quirky sense of style in a silky cream ruffled blouse and gold snake necklace, teamed with skinny blue jeans and jeweled slippers.

With her blonde hair in effortless curls, Georgia showed off her pretty complexion in au naturelle makeup as she gave hosts Phillip Schofield and Rochelle Humes the I'm A Celebrity news.

====== 1356 ========

GEMMA COLLINS SHOWS OFF HER CLOSE BOND WITH DANCING ON ICE PARTNER MATT EVERS AFTER REHEARSALS

They've been spending almost everyday together in the run-up to their Dancing On Ice debut.

And Gemma Collins and skating partner Matt Evers looked as though they've already struck up a close bond as they shared a tender, friendly moment after leaving an ice rink in London on Thursday.

The TOWIE star, 37, appeared in high spirits as she exited the venue in her workout gear with her mentor, who even wrapped an affectionate arm around the reality TV favourite and put a finger very close to her mouth.

Gemma Collins and skating partner Matt Evers looked as though they've already struck up a close bond as they shared a tender, friendly moment after leaving an ice rink in London on Thursday

Gemma - who recently revealed her relentless ice skating practice has seen her drop a dress size - rocked a stylish rehearsal look in funky leggings with red panels and an over-size jumper by Pretty Little Thing.

She finished her look with on-trend sock-style trainers and carried her daytime essentials in a hefty black backpack.

Retaining her glamorous Essex demeanour, Gemma styled her trademark blonde tresses into loose waves and went for a bronzed make-up look for her stint on the ice.

Looking good! Gemma - who recently revealed her relentless ice skating practice has seen her drop a dress size - rocked a stylish rehearsal look in funky leggings with red panels

Good pals: Gemma and Matt have forged a strong friendship having spent almost everyday together in the run-up to their Dancing On Ice debut

Come here, you! Matt even wrapped an affectionate arm around the bubbly blonde as they left the rink

Before going their separate ways, Matt - who recently praised Gemma for always making him laugh - looked to impart some final words of wisdom with the reality star as he pointed at the Celebrity Big Brother star with a serious expression.

As well as her extensive training regime, Gemma has also adopted a healthy eating plan, eating lots of oats and fresh fruit throughout the day - and has already managed to drop an entire dress size since the rehearsals kicked off.

Talking to Tommy Mallet on TOWIE earlier this month, she said: 'I've bought us some carrots, carrots and omos,' before realising she has pronounced the dip wrong and corrects herself: 'Hummus.'

Glam: Retaining her glamorous Essex demeanour, Gemma styled her trademark blonde tresses into loose waves and went for a bronzed make-up look for her stint on the ice.

Fun to be around: Matt recently gushed that Gemma always has him laughing during rehearsals

She said in the exchange that she has already lost a jean size, thanks to her new training schedule on the ice: 'I'm already a size down in my jeans, everything feels better, my bra feels better and my knickers feel better... it's happening.'

Keen for some support with his own dieting efforts, Tommy quizzes Gemma on how hers is going, to which she replies:

'It's depressing. I'm really enjoying it, but this skating life is a culture... they're always happy.

One last thing... The skating pro looked to impart some final words of wisdom with Gemma before they went their separate ways

====== 1357 ========

STRICTLY'S KATYA JONES LOOKS GLAMOROUS IN LBD AND GREY FURRY COAT

They have vowed to not let her cheating betrayal mar their marriage.

And Katya Jones enjoyed a night out without her husband Neil as she headed out with her Strictly Come Dancing co-star Amy Dowden in Mayfair on Thursday night.

The professional dancer, 29, was dressed to the nines as she slipped into a black a-line dress and grey furry coat.

Glam: Katya Jones enjoyed a night without her husband Neil as she headed out with her Strictly Come Dancing co-star Amy Dowden in Mayfair on Thursday night

The sophisticated dress skimmed over Katya's toned frame, showcasing her tremendous pins due to its knee-high hemline.

She added a boost to her height with gold open-toe heels and amped up the glamour in a furry coat and red tassel earrings.

The Russian beauty wore her raven locks back in a sleek bun and finished off her party outfit with a magenta lipstick, blush-swept cheeks and soft brown eye-shadow.

Elegant: The professional dancer, 29, was dressed to the nines as she slipped into a black a-line dress and grey furry coat for her evening out

Katya was joined by Amy, Luba Mushtuk, Janette Manrara and husband Alijaz Skorjanec, Zoe Ball and Johannes Radebe for the night out.

Earlier on in the series, Katya and her partner comedian Seann Walsh faced a huge backlash after the pair were spotted sharing a kiss together on a night out in London.

The comedian issued a feeble apology in which he blamed his actions on alcohol, while Katya echoed the sentiments however insisted her marriage to fellow Strictly Come Dancing professional Neil is fine.

Pals: The sophisticated dress skimmed over Katya's toned frame, showcasing her tremendous pins due to its knee-high hemline, while Amy looked chic in a tailored black coat

Time to party: The girls' were joined by fellow dancer Johannes Radebe for the night out

However it appears that Katya's other half has reason to worry again, as the pair are said to be dancing together for the finale in a few weeks, according to The Sun.

A source told the publication: 'Neil will be gutted as when Seann was voted off the show, he was glad to see the back of him.

'Since he went, the atmosphere backstage has improved and Neil has been visibly happier.

Loved-up: Married couple Janette Manrara and Aljaz Skorjanec held hands as they left the Grosvenor Hotel in Mayfair

Suited and booted: Johannes Radebe looked sharp in his all-black ensemble

Casual chic: Zoe Ball looked comfy as she stepped out in a turtleneck jumper and denim jeans

'Things are back on track in his marriage - so he’ll be gutted when Seann is back on set.'

MailOnline contacted their representatives at the time.

After the kiss came to light, Seann was dumped by girlfriend Rebecca online in a scathing statement in which she revealed she was taking their beloved cat Winston.

And just last week, Jones couldn't help but post a cryptic message about 'never looking back' as he took to Instagram to share a smouldering snap.

Chic: Nadiya Bychkova donned a fluffy black coat over a figure-hugging grey dress

Elegant: Luba Mushtuk was seen leaving the Grosvenor Hotel in a blue longline coat, which had a fur trim

Back on track: While Neil and Katya have got their marriage back on track, reports circulated saying he is 'gutted' she will have to reunite with Seann for the finale in December

The snap came amid reports Neil allegedly likened Seann to a 'scab' and said he was 'delighted' his wife and the comedian were kicked off Strictly after the pair were caught kissing.

According to The Sun, Neil has reportedly been telling his friends he can 'finally move on' from the cheating scandal as Seann has left the show meaning the atmosphere is 'great again'.

Sources claim Katya and Neil, who has since forgiven his wife for the indiscretion, are worried they will be dropped by BBC bosses because of the incident and subsequent backlash from viewers.

====== 1358 ========

JAMIE DORNAN AND MATTHEW RHYS ON THEIR NEW SHOW DEATH AND NIGHTINGALES

Yes, it has Jamie Dornan who plays the handsome millionaire in Fifty Shades. Yes, it has Emmy-winning The Americans actor Matthew Rhys – another heart-throb.

And yes, Irish newcomer Ann Skelly, as the girl stuck between the two of them, is stunning too. But the actors aren’t the most beautiful thing about riveting new three-part costume drama Death And Nightingales.

Set in what is now Northern Ireland in 1885 – a time of rebellion, spies, double-dealing, murder plots and menace – it’s filmed amid some of the most hauntingly mystical scenery in the British Isles.

This is Game Of Thrones land – the hit series is filmed just up the road – and Death And Nightingales has just as much intrigue and romance. No dragons required.

‘It’s a complicated story with lots of twists and turns that will alter how the viewers think about the characters,’ says Jamie, 36, who also starred in The Fall TV series.

‘I liked my character, Liam Ward, because there’s a mystery to him. It’s always interesting playing characters who you don’t instantly have an understanding of, you don’t know what their intentions are.’

Death And Nightingales is a three-part costume drama set in what is now Northern Ireland in 1885 – a time of rebellion, spies, double-dealing, murder plots and menace. Pictured: Jamie Dornan as Liam Ward, Ann Skelly as Beth Winters and Matthew Rhys as her father Billy

The story, based on the 1992 bestseller by Eugene McCabe, focuses on the 24 hours of the 23rd birthday of Beth Winters, who is plotting to run away from her stepfather Billy with her handsome lover Liam Ward

The story, based on the 1992 bestseller by Eugene McCabe, focuses on the 24 hours of the 23rd birthday of Beth Winters, the stepdaughter of Protestant landowner Billy Winters, played by Matthew.

In flashback we see how Billy married Beth’s Catholic mother, not knowing she was pregnant with another man’s child, which has led to a love-hate relationship between Beth, who’s been brought up a Catholic, and Billy.

He raised her as his daughter, despite knowing he was not her father, and looked after her once her mother died. But now she’s grown into a beautiful woman, he’s beginning to harbour distinctly unpaternal feelings towards her.

For her part, Beth is resentful about the violent way he treated her mother, and worried about his growing affection towards her when he’s drunk.

‘There’s a lot of love there, but also disdain,’ says Ann, 21, whose biggest role to date has been in the Irish crime drama Red Rock.

‘What I love about these characters is they’re not black and white. There’s no character who’s only good, skipping through meadows, or only bad, scheming in the corner. Every one is full, human.’

Matthew, 44, says he didn’t hesitate to take on the role of Billy, although it meant temporarily relocating his family (he has a son with his girlfriend Keri Russell, who’s also his co-star in The Americans) to Northern Ireland.

‘Billy is misunderstood, as most villains are. He’s a fair man, level-headed, and he doesn’t let religion or politics cloud his judgement; he married a Catholic lady, after all. But he’s battling conflicting feelings that raise their ugly head. I’ve relished the darker elements of him enormously, he’s interesting to play.’

Everything changes when handsome Liam Ward enters their lives. He’s taken over the tenancy of some land on the Winters estate after his uncle’s death and begins working at Billy’s stone quarry.

He meets Beth when he comes to Billy’s house asking for help in getting a cow out of a bog. As her father isn’t around, she agrees to help him.

Soon they’re in love and, knowing Billy would never approve of their marriage, they plot to run away together on Beth’s 23rd birthday. Liam hates Billy, for both political and religious reasons.

After Fifty Shades – the films earned millions at the box office while also being roundly derided by critics – Jamie’s keen not to be typecast as hot male totty and had to think hard about taking on a role that had another sex scene

He’s convinced the Protestant landlord is spying on his Catholic neighbours. Not only does he want Beth to elope with him, but he encourages her to steal Billy’s money.

‘Beth’s totally infatuated with him,’ says Ann. ‘She’s very sheltered, she’s lived quite a privileged life. But in Liam she sees this romanticism and perhaps she doesn’t grasp how brutal it can be.

‘I don’t think she gets the full gist of how strongly one can feel, the violence. It’s the first time she’s been exposed to it.’

For Jamie, who grew up a Protestant in Northern Ireland, the show was a return home. Although its main draw was writer and director Allan Cubitt, who pushed for Jamie to win the role of serial killer Paul Spector in his creation The Fall, Jamie says he was interested in returning to the politics he grew up with.

‘I’m not religious but this part of the world has a very particular history and it’s had a massive impact on every person who has chosen to live here – who has been born here – and I think it would be wrong to run away from it,’ he says.

‘You could tell so many different stories from different points of the history of this country – the conflict goes back hundreds of years – but what we aren’t doing is leaning towards one aspect of the history, the sectarianism, the division.

‘The character I play doesn’t say anything about what my beliefs are. It’s just a good role, an interesting drama, and that’s all I see it as. It’s educated me about a time I didn’t know much about. There are aspects about the division and rule which I didn’t understand, and it delves into people’s anger at the English. It’s fascinating.

‘In my era we’ve grown up not wanting to talk about those things and most of my mates aren’t religious. I went to a school that had a healthy mix of Protestant and Catholic, and many of my friends don’t feel they belong to either.

‘We knew what trouble it could get you into if you were the wrong religion. I will always want to work in Northern Ireland, I love people from here. It’s also nice not to have to repeat yourself the whole time or make a joke that nobody gets – that happens a lot in America. It’s nice to be understood.’

After Fifty Shades – the films earned millions at the box office while also being roundly derided by critics – Jamie’s keen not to be typecast as hot male totty and had to think hard about taking on a role that had another sex scene.

‘I have so much faith in Allan not wanting to sell me up the river, I trust him implicitly. Allan changed my life. There were a lot of people saying he was mad to cast me in The Fall but he was persistent, and for that I am eternally grateful – without The Fall there’s nothing.

‘This is not a raunchy story but there is romance and there’s love. I’ve done some pretty raunchy films, like Fifty Shades, but most of what I’ve done hasn’t been like that. I’m not seeking more of that.

‘Sometimes it’s just gratuitous. You think, “Why is that person cooking naked?” Nobody cooks naked – it’s such a risk! There’s definitely no naked cooking in this show.’

Death And Nightingales, Wednesday, 9pm, BBC2.

====== 1359 ========

CELEBS GO DATING KERRY KATONA AND PETE WICKS 'LEAD LINE-UP FOR SERIES'

Kerry Katona, Chelsee Healey, Pete Wicks and Georgia Steel have joined the line-up for the forthcoming series of Celebs Go Dating, with E4 bosses said to be 'really happy' with the line-up.

Following the success of the current series, featuring stars including Chloe Sims and Olivia Attwood, it has been announced that scooping celebrities such as Kerry means the show will boast a revamp, which has also seen life coach Anna Williamson join Paul Carrick Brunson as a matchmaker on the show.

Speaking ahead of the show, the former Atomic Kitten star said: 'I’ve never done anything like this before. If what I’ve been doing before hasn’t been working I may as well try something new! I’ve been on dating apps but to be honest they didn’t work. I’m so excited to be joining the agency and see who Anna and Paul set me up with!'

All-star: Kerry Katona, Chelsee Healey, Pete Wicks and Georgia Steel have reportedly joined the line-up for the forthcoming series of Celebs Go Dating, with E4 bosses said to be 'really happy' with the line-up (left-right Ibiza Weekender head rep David Potts, Kerry, Chelsee, Sam Thompson, Georgia and Pete)

Kerry is undoubtedly the biggest signing to the show, with her chequered romantic history set to delight audience members following her many tried and failed stabs at love.

Speaking in a teaser clip for the show, self-deprecating Kerry said: 'Hi it's Kerry, I'm a serial marriager and divorcer. And I have come on here to start dating because I have actually never done the dating scene!...

'I tend to meet men, fall in love, get offered a paycheck from OK Magazine, marry them, get pregnant, pop a baby out and divorce them and it's not worked out too well!'

Kerry's signing comes after she called it quits with her toyboy Ryan Mahoney, 29, after four months together. The couple, who first started dating in June, called time on their relationship after a 'make-or-break' Thailand trip. Sources said: 'Kerry and Ryan decided to end their relationship after they landed back in the UK from Thailand...

Her girls: Kerry has five children, Molly, 17, and Lilly-Sue, 15, (right-left in 2016) from her first marriage to Westlife star Brian McFadden. She also has, Heidi, 11, and Max, 10, from her second marriage to cab driver Mark Croft. While the youngest of the brood, Dylan-Jorge, four, is shared with ex-George Kay

Here he is! Following the success of the current series, featuring stars Chloe Sims and Olivia Attwood, sources tell The Sun that scooping celebrities such as Kerry means the show will boast a revamp

Ahem! Pete famously dated Megan McKenna with the couple's tumultuous relationship often leaving jaws dropping

Kerry Katona, 38: 'Serial marriager and divorcer' Who is she? Kerry soared to fame in 1998 as one of the members of Atomic Kitten, yet left the band in 2001 and became better known for her dramatic personal life. Romantic past: The songstress was married to Westlife star Brian McFadden from 2002 to 2004, before her ill-fated marriage to cab driver Mark Croft from 2007 to 2009. She was most recently wed to George Kay, who she married in 2014 before splitting last year Children? She is mother to Molly, 17, Lilly-Sue, 15, Heidi, 11, Max, 10, and Dylan-Jorge, four

Pete Wicks, 30: TOWIE's long-haired Lothario Who is he? Pete first hit screens on TOWIE in 2015, when he became known as Pete The Pirate, before starring on Celebrity Island earlier this year Romantic past: Pete's dramas with Megan McKenna captivated viewers from 2016 when their horrific rows played out on screen after he was sexting his former flame. He went on to date Shelby Tribble, although they suffered an acrimonious split later on Children? Pete is child-free, making him one of the more single agents among the new line-up

'It was a make or break holiday and they wanted to get away to discuss their future and whether they wanted to be together. They looked happy in pictures, but that wasn't a true reflection of what was really going on.'

Kerry has five children, Molly, 17, and Lilly-Sue, 15, from her first marriage to Westlife star Brian McFadden. She also has, Heidi, 11, and Max, 10, from her second marriage to cab driver Mark Croft. While the youngest of the brood, Dylan-Jorge, four, is shared with ex-George Kay.

As a TOWIE star, Pete's romantic history has been well-documented on-screen as fans saw his extremely tempestuous romance with Megan McKenna play out on screens.

More recently he was loved-up with co-star Shelby Tribble however their union came crashing down in an acrimonious split following many public spats.

Georgia will be returning to screens in yet another stab at love, following her divisive stint on Love Island over the summer, where she was mirthlessly mocked for her self-professed 'loyalty'.

Here she is! Georgia will be returning to screens in yet another stab at love, following her divisive stint on Love Island over the summer, where she was mirthlessly mocked for her self-professed 'loyalty'

Georgia Steel, 20: Love Island's most loyal export Who is she? Georgia soared to fame on this summer's Love Island where she was blasted for her frequent professions about 'loyalty' - contrary to popular opinion Romantic history: Within the villa, Georgia caused ructions when her union with Josh Denzel ended in tragedy when he chose Kaz Crossley over her before she hooked up with Sam Bird prior to their split last month Children: As well as Pete, Sam and David, Georgia is one of the child-cast members

Chelsee Healey, 30: Hollyoaks' hot mama Who is she? Chelsee first hit screens playing Janeece Bryant in Waterloo Road from 2006 to 2012 before starring as Goldie McQueen in Hollyoaks from 2016 Romatic history: The soap star split from her jailbird boyfriend Jack Malloy in March. They first split summer 2016 after starting dating in 2014 however they hit a rocky patch when he was jailed for 12 months in 2016 Children: Chelsee shares adorable 16-month-old daughter Coco with ex Jack

Returning to the show will be Made In Chelsea star Sam Thompson who is having his second stab at love on the show, following his first stint earlier this year - where he was unsuccessful in his hunt for love.

Speaking about the show, Sam said:I’ve had a rough old run in the love stakes so I’m back to my spiritual home at the dating agency! It’s about time I got lucky in love, so let’s see if this time round I can find that special someone!'

Ibiza Weekender head rep David Potts is also on the prowl as he hopes to find love on the show.

He's back! Returning to the show will be Made In Chelsea star Sam Thompson who is having his second stab at love on the show, following his first stint earlier this year - where he was unsuccessful in his hunt for love

Happy days: Ibiza Weekender head rep David Potts is also on the prowl as he hopes to find love on the show

====== 1360 ========

SAM FAIERS STUNS IN BLACK GLITTERY DRESS FOR FESTIVE PHOTOSHOOT

She recently returned to managing her fashion brand after the birth of her baby daughter Rosie.

And Sam Faiers looked the epitome of glamour as she starred in glitzy festive photoshoot for All Bits London.

Posing up a storm for the cameras, the Mummy Diaries star, 27, showcased her incredible figure in a one-shouldered glittery black dress before slipping into a ravishing red jumpsuit.

Glittering: Sam Faiers looked the epitome of glamour as she starred in glitzy festive photoshoot for All Bits London

The dress cinched in Sam's trim waist with a tie-side belt, while flashing a hint of her tanned and toned pins due to its thigh-high split.

Styling her brunette locks in soft waves, the reality star looked Christmas party ready as she complemented the look with silver hoop earrings.

In another look, Sam modelled a figure-hugging red one-shouldered jumpsuit, which sheathed over her svelte figure.

Stunning: The Mummy Diaries star, 27, showcased her incredible figure in a one-shouldered ravishing red jumpsuit as she posed up a storm for the cameras

Sam, who has been busy preparing for Billie's wedding in the Maldives on this series of the Mummy Diaries, revealed she has fallen in love with the exotic location and has decided to spend her first Christmas abroad with boyfriend Paul, son Paul Tony, two, and baby Rosie, 11 months.

Her mother-in-law Gaynor and mum Suzanne Wells will also be jetting to the idyllic location for the festive period.

She told MailOnline: 'It’s the first time I've ever been away for Christmas. We're going to the Maldives.

Touch of sparkle: Sam's glittery black dress cinched in Sam's trim waist with a tie-side belt, while flashing a hint of her tanned and toned pins due to its thigh-high split

'I’m really, really excited for it but it’s going to be weird because I've never been away for Christmas before.

'I’m going to a completely different island from Billie but it’s definitely going to get me into the mood. I know that everyone is going to be thinking about Billie's wedding.

On last Wednesday's episode of The Mummy Diaries, the former TOWIE star gave fans a further glimpse into life in the Faiers-Knightley household as she reveals to sister Billie that she is still sleeping away from beau Paul.

Chatting at a picnic with Billie, who has daughter Nelly, four, and son Arthur, 20 months, with fiancé Greg Shepherd, Sam revealed she would like to be able to 'snuggle' with her beau without the kids present.

She raised eyebrows earlier this year when she revealed she had stopped sharing a bed with Paul since welcoming their second child Rosie, who has just turned one.

And despite defending their situation and hinting at a change, Sam has now admitted she is still sleeping with Rosie in a spare bed and Paul is in their bed with their three-year-old son Paul.

Seeking advice her sister Billie, a seemingly frustrated Sam stated: 'I'm at the point now where I wanna get back into my own bed like snuggle up to Paul, watch TV like we're not doing that do you know what I mean?'

A curious Billie probed: 'So you're still in separate beds?' before offering support by stating: 'I find it's the only time you actually get to speak to [your partner] when the kids are asleep!'

====== 1361 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: NOEL EDMONDS FINALLY MAKES HIS DEBUT IN THE JUNGLE AS HE IS DECLARED EMPEROR

He's been gearing up to enter the Australian jungle as the 11th and final campmate, and he finally made his grand entrance on I'm A Celebrity.

And Noel Edmonds instantly divided viewers as he was crowned the Emperor of camp during his regal arrival on Thursday's installment of the reality show.

The 69-year-old star quickly settled into his role as camp leader as he barked orders at his campmates - but his monarchical persona received a mixed reaction from fans, with some branding the Deal or No Deal host 'annoying' while others claimed he was TV gold.

Scroll down for video

I'm A Celebrity: Noel Edmonds FINALLY made his debut in the jungle on Thursday as he was declared Emperor... and set trial that saw Nick and James covered in 5000 cockroaches

Some even went as far as to say that Noel was going to 'ruin' the show, with one writing: ''Seriously - Noel is going to ruin the show! 'keepjohninthejungle #Imaceleb.'

Another concurred: 'Watching today's #ImACeleb and wow I am really hating Noel Edmonds. He's going to ruin the series on a Perez Hilton-on-CBB level.'

'Noel Edmonds is really not likeable,' a third slammed.

However, others jumped to Noel's defence and claimed his critics needed to lighten up, insisting his behaviour was all part of his Emperor act and was purely for entertainment purposes.

Trials: As Emperor, Noel would be exempt from doing any work in the camp, and the celebrities became known as gladiators who would perform tasks and face trials in order to win food

'He's annoying!': Viewers quickly predicted trouble and pointed out that Anne Hegerty also didn't appear to be a fan of Noel's

One enthused: 'For anyone who doesn't get Noel's sense of humour and that he's being told to act the part of an emperor, thinking that he's an a******e or arrogant are complete idiots.

'The man is hilarious, so sarcastic and what the show needed. Him and Harry are so well together 'ImACeleb.'

Explaining what Noel's arrival meant for the celebrities, Holly and Dec told the celebrities that it was his job to bark orders and tell the campmates what to do.

Dec explained: 'From this point on you are no longer masters of your own destiny. You are now gladiators and your fate will be decided by a new camp leader. All hail The Emperor.'

