Red-hot! Sara Sampaio is on vacation in Tulum, Mexico. And on Friday, the 27-year-old model, who posed poolside, showed off her sculpted body in a skimpy red bikini on Instagram

Sara and Oliver, who have been dating since 2015, are bunked up at HABITAS—an exotic resort just steps away from the ocean.

'Finally some time off after living in airports and planes these past few weeks,' Sampaio wrote on Instagram.

In an interview with KTLA 5, the Portugal native admitted to often feeling lonely when traveling the world for work.

'There's a lot of planes, a lot of sleepless nights, and there's a lot of being alone,' she said. 'My boyfriend travels as much as I do. We meet whenever we can.'

'Love me some sun,' she wrote on social media

Quality time: Sara and boyfriend Oliver Ripley are bunked up at HABITAS—an exotic resort just steps away from the ocean. The longtime couple have been dating since 2015

Sampaio recently walked in the annual Victoria's Secret Fashion Show, which airs on December 2.

The Vogue cover girl became an official VS Angel back in 2015.

'This show means more to me than anything you can imagine!' Sara wrote on Instagram after the show's taping on November 8.

'Last night was incredible, love being back in NY, the energy is just electrifying! Can’t believe this is my 6th show already! Loved every moment of it!'

====== 85 ========

JESSICA ALBA ROCKS A LEATHER JACKET WHILE OUT FOR LUNCH IN BEVERLY HILLS WITH DAUGHTER HONOR

She's a dotting mom of three.

And on Friday, Jessica Alba stepped out for lunch in Beverly Hills with daughter Honor, age 10.

The 37-year-old actress rocked a black leather jacket and cropped denim on the mother-daughter outing.

Quality time: On Friday, Jessica Alba stepped out for lunch in Beverly Hills with daughter Honor, age 10. The 37-year-old actress rocked a black leather jacket and cropped denim on the mother-daughter outing

Alba, who wore her hair styled straight, teamed her casual ensemble with suede booties and a grey t-shirt.

She accessorized with a green Bulgari purse and wayfarer shades.

As for Honor, she was dressed in black shorts and a yellow hoodie.

Fashionista: Jessica accessorized with a green Bulgari purse and wayfarer shades

Along with her eldest child, the Into The Blue star is mom to daughter Haven, seven, and son Hayes, 10 months.

She shares her three children with husband Cash Warren, whom she's been married to since 2008.

Alba is currently filming NBC's Bad Boys spinoff series—L.A.'s Finest—with Gabrielle Union.

Mom threads: Alba, who wore her hair styled straight, teamed her casual ensemble with suede booties and a grey t-shirt

The series will follow Union's character Syd Burnett, from the original franchise, as she leaves her job at the DEA to join the LAPD as a detective.

Jessica plays Syd's partner—a working mom by the name of Nancy McKenna.

L.A.'s Finest marks The Honest Company founder's return to TV after starring in the FOX's Dark Angel, which aired from 2000 until 2002.

====== 86 ========

KOURTNEY KARDASHIAN SHUTS DOWN PREGNANCY SPECULATION AFTER PLACING HAND ON BELLY IN VIDEO

Kourtney Kardashian has shut down pregnancy speculation after appearing in a video where she was covering up her belly with her hand.

The reality star, 39, was featured in an Instagram video posted by her sister Kendall Jenner, where she stood alongside her loved ones while gently placing a hand upon her midsection.

The placement of the hand raised the suspicions of one fan who directly asked in the comments section, 'Is Kourt pregnant?'

'How good does my arm look?' Kourtney Kardashian has shut down pregnancy speculation after appearing in a video where she was covering up her belly with her hand

Kourtney instantly shut down the speculation with a silly response.

'No, but how good does my arm look in that last photo?' she replied.

In the video, Kourtney stood in front of a long fire alongside her family wearing a fitted red dress.

Kourtney spent Thanksgiving with her sisters, mother Kris Jenner, and her ex Scott Disick.

'I feel beyond grateful': Kourtney spent Thanksgiving with her sisters, mother Kris Jenner, and her ex Scott Disick

The pair were together from 2006 to 2014, and together share sons Mason, Reign, and daughter Penelope.

The exes put on a united front as they posed together alongside their kids while celebrating the special holiday.

Kourtney wore a pair of pajamas while her children sported matching tropical print outfits.

'I woke up this morning in bed with my children, in the same house as my sisters (minus @khloekardashian i miss you), my brothers, the father of my kids, my mommy, my grandma, my nieces and nephew. I feel beyond grateful. Happy Thanksgiving!'

====== 87 ========

PARIS HILTON SPEAKS ABOUT BEING AN INSPIRATION TO ALL

She's the reality star turned business mogul.

And at the launch of her 24th fragrance, Platinum Rush, in Melbourne on Friday, Paris Hilton told Daily Mail Australia the secret behind her empire.

The 37-year-old blonde beauty said it comes down to hard work and being 'an inspiration to men and women around the world'.

EXCLUSIVE: 'I work so hard and I'm an inspiration to men and women around the world': Paris Hilton, 37, revealed the secret behind her business empire and admitted 'if there's a product, I make it'

'I'm a woman on Twitter, I'm an inspiration all around the world,' Paris told Daily Mail Australia before taking to the stage at Melbourne's Highpoint Shopping Centre.

'I work so hard and I love what I do. I love being an inspiration to men and women around the world,' she added.

Paris, who attended the event on behalf of Chemist Warehouse, later admitted on stage that her business ventures are endless.

Inspirational: 'I'm a woman on Twitter, I'm an inspiration all around the world,' Paris told Daily Mail Australia before taking to the stage at Melbourne's Highpoint Shopping Centre

Fan love: Paris sauntered across to her fans standing behind a barricade. The heiress warmly embraced one of her followers

Kiss kiss: Paris also leaned in for a kiss on the cheek with another female fan

'I have [designed] handbags, makeup [lines], jewellery, lingerie, clothing, shoes, watches, baby clothes. Basically if there's a product, I make it,' the Los Angeles-based star said.

Paris stunned at the fragrance launch in a glitzy silver mini dress that highlighted her endlessly long and lean legs.

The sister of Nicky Hilton added pointy-toe silver strappy heels and a jewelled headband to the look.

Promoting her brand: The blonde beauty was all smiles as she greeted her legions of fans and promoted her 24th fragrance, Platinum Rush

Grateful: Taking to the stage, Paris thanked her fans for coming out to see her

Flawless: Paris' glitzy number accentuated her enviable figure

Paris styled her long blonde locks sleek and in soft waves, and her striking facial features were enhanced with a dewy complexion, defined brows, a false set of lashes and a glossy nude lip.

The stunner appeared in high spirits as she struck a pose outside retail store David Jones, and showed off her glitzy perfume bottle.

Paris sauntered across to her fans and thanked her legion of followers for coming out to see her.

The heiress even approached a female fan standing by a fence and reached out for a hug.

The sweet smell of success! Paris told her fans on stage that she's worked hard to continue her successful brand

Picture-perfect: The sister of Nicky Hilton enhanced her striking facial features with a dewy complexion, bold brows, a false set of lashes and a glossy lip

====== 88 ========

KALEY CUOCO SHARES HAPPY NEWS THAT AILING SEAL PUP SHE SPOTTED ON THANKSGIVING HAS BEEN RESCUED

She spent part of her Thanksgiving on Thursday trying to find help for an ailing baby seal.

And on Friday, Kaley Cuoco learned that there was a happy ending to the saga and shared the news with her Instagram followers.

While rescue group volunteers she'd contacted on Thanksgiving had failed to find the seal pup on rocks where the actress had photographed it, they did find it hours later on Friday on a beach several miles to the south.

Scroll down for video

'The best story!' She spent part of Thanksgiving trying to find help for an ailing baby seal. And Friday, Kaley Cuoco learned there was a happy ending and shared the news on Instagram

'The best story! A huge shout out to all the volunteers and staff @cimwi for coming out again today to search for (their #99th patient of 2018)Sandy the sea lion (yes I named him) finding and rescuing him!' The Big Bang Theory star wrote.

She also shared a photo of the cute young marine mammal inside a pet carrier where it had been placed by the volunteers from the Channel Islands Marine & Wildlife Institute.

Cuoco explained: 'He is currently at their Santa Barbara facility getting rehabbed and prepped to be released back into the wild as soon as he’s able .. amazing organization doing amazing work for marine animals in need. Thank you!!'

The day before, the 32-year-old had posted video to her Instagram explaining that she had been spending Thanksgiving at her husband Karl Cook's parents' beach house when they came across the seal pup that appeared to be in distress.

Kindhearted: The Big Bang Theory star, 32, who's a well-known animal lover, had been spending the holiday at a beach house belonging to her in-laws

Taped it: She posted video to her Instagram explaining how she had spotted the seal pup lying on rocks at the high tide line

Alongside the clip, she wrote: 'So here’s what I’m grateful for ...at my in-laws beautiful beach house, Karl and I came across a baby seal who was obviously lost and in pain.'

'I called the 24 hour @cimwi___ (marine and wildlife hotline) and asked if someone could come help him. They promised me a volunteer but I was unsure it would happen since it’s Thanksgiving!' she wrote. 'A few hours later I noticed a group of volunteers huddled around the seal. They all showed up to help!!'

The actress concluded her post by saying: 'my heart is full and I’m thankful these gracious people left their thanksgiving plans to help an animal in need. Doesn’t get better than that.'

Rescue mission: 'I called the 24 hour @cimwi___ (marine and wildlife hotline) and asked if someone could come help him. They promised me a volunteer but I was unsure it would happen since it’s Thanksgiving!' she wrote. 'A few hours later I noticed a group of volunteers huddled around the seal. They all showed up to help!!'

Grateful: The actress added:'my heart is full and I’m thankful these gracious people left their thanksgiving plans to help an animal in need. Doesn’t get better than that'

Famous face: Cuoco is one of the highest paid stars on television. Her sitcom is currently filming its 12th and final season

Kaley tied the knot with professional equestrian Karl last June.

She was previously married to former pro tennis player Ryan Sweeting from 2013 until 2016.

Her sitcom The Big Bang Theory began airing in 2007 and last month filming started filming on its 12th and final season.

====== 89 ========

PARIS HILTON SHRUGS OFF HER 'PARTY GIRL' TAG SAYING IT WAS HOW SHE STARTED HER WORLDWIDE EMPIRE

Her rise to fame included plenty of time out partying with famous pals at Los Angeles nightspots.

And American socialite and heiress Paris Hilton, 37, has said that she was the 'first person to ever get paid to party' - and it was actually her 'working' in her early years.

Speaking to Weekend Today on Saturday, Paris made the comments at the while promoting her new fragrance, Platinum Rush.

Scroll down for video

'I was the first person to ever get paid to party': On Saturday, heiress Paris Hilton (pictured) said she started her worldwide empire by going out on the town

Explaining her wild reputation, the blonde beauty said she was the first celebrity who pioneered getting paid to party.

'That was a business I started in,' Paris told the show's hosts.

'I was the first person to ever get paid to party and it was a very lucrative business and I've turned it into a worldwide empire.'

'That was a business I started in,' Paris told the show's hosts. 'I was the first person to ever get paid to party and it was a very lucrative business and I've turned it into a worldwide empire.' Pictured here in 2003

She continued: 'So, I think when a lot of people would see me at these parties and events they didn't really realise I was actually there working.'

She finished: 'It was my job.'

The savvy businesswoman first rose to fame on the Fox hit, The Simple Life, with fellow heiress and fashionista, Nicole Richie, 37.

All business: The American heiress and socialite has said her days out at parties is what led to her worldwide empire. Paris has just released her latest fragrance, Platinum Rush

After first launching her eponymous perfume in 2004, Paris went on to launch a number of others including 'Can Can', 'Heiress' and 'Just Me'.

The fun-loving blonde went on to release star in the horror film House of Wax and release the self-titled Paris album which spawned hit, 'Stars Are Blind'.

Elsewhere in interview, Paris spoke about her often tumultuous friendship with global superstar, Kim Kardashian.

Still friends: 'We've known each other since we were little girls': Elsewhere in the interview, Paris spoke about her tumultuous relationship with Kim Kardashian (above in 2007)

The Hilton Hotels heiress claimed to have spoken to Kim, 38, just 'a couple of weeks ago'.

'Everything's great. We've known each other since we were little girls. I love her and I am so proud of her, she's such an amazing businesswoman,' she told the program.

But it took Paris a little time to warm up to being asked about her highly successful friend.

The former Simple Life star couldn't help but take a subtle swipe at Kim when first asked about her and her lucrative career.

'I feel so proud. I feel like a pioneer, and I've really paved the way for so many people, and [I'm] an inspiration to men and women all around the world,' she said.

====== 90 ========

KHLOE KARDASHIAN SINGS STAND BY ME WITH BABY TRUE AS THEY ENJOY GOLDEN OLDIES IN SWEET VIDEO

Her choice of song was certainly an interesting one.

Khloe Kardashian sang Stand By Me with baby True in a cute Instagram Story on Friday.

The reality star and her seven month old daughter were enjoying some golden oldies as they recovered from Thanksgiving.

For Tristan? Khloe Kardashian sang Stand By Me to baby True in a cute Instagram Story on Friday

The 34-year-old looked cosy in a black and white Nike tracksuit with plenty of branding.

True of course looked adorable in a tiny rabbit themed ensemble.

Her mom played around with animal filters as she sang in a high pitched voice via the app.

As she sang Baby Love by The Supremes she panned to her little girl in an obvious dedication.

Chilling: The reality star and her seven month old daughter were enjoying some golden oldies as they recovered from Thanksgiving

Sweats: The 34-year-old looked cosy in a black and white Nike tracksuit with plenty of branding

Cutie: True of course looked adorable in a tiny rabbit themed ensemble

Ben E King's 1961 classic meanwhile might have been directed at True's dad Tristan Thompson, who was busted cheating on her mom just days before she was born.

Despite the infidelity, Khloe has powered through for the sake of the family, as the trio spent True's first Thanksgiving together in Cleveland.

Many wondered how long the relationship would last, especially after Khloe put her plans to move to Ohio this fall on hold.

Doting: As she sang Baby Love by The Supremes she panned to her little girl in an obvious dedication

Still, despite all that, a source told People that Khloe wanted True to spend her first Thanksgiving with her father.

'Khloé is taking True to Cleveland for Thanksgiving,' says the source. 'Tristan has a game and can't make it to L.A.'

'It's True's first Thanksgiving, so Khloe wants them to be together,' the source added.

====== 91 ========

COUNTRY SINGER JAKE OWEN AND GIRLFRIEND ERICA HARTLEIN ARE EXPECTING THEIR FIRST CHILD TOGETHER

Country singer Jake Owen and girlfriend Erica Hartlein are expecting their first child together.

The 37-year-old performer made the announcement during ABC's I'm Coming Home holiday special, which aired on Thursday.

'This'll throw you guys for a loop,' he said. '[We] haven't told anyone, but Erica and I will be adding a little addition to our Owen family.'

Bun in the oven: Country singer Jake Owen and girlfriend Erica Hartlein are expecting their first child together. The couple have been dating since April 2017

Jake and Erica have been dating since April 2017.

The couple, who have kept their relationship private, made their red carpet debut at the 2018 ACM Awards this past April.

Hartlein, an interior designer, reportedly met Owens when he was remodeling his Nashville home.

Past partner: The Beachin' singer was formerly married to Lacey Buchanan from 2012 to 2015

The Beachin' singer was formerly married to Lacey Buchanan.

Jake and Lacey, who divorced in 2015, share daughter Olive, age six.

Ironically, Buchanan announced her second pregnancy on Friday—just days after Owen's announcement on national television.

Parental units: Jake and Lacey share daughter Olive, age six

Jake's new competition show, Real Country, on USA premiered November 13.

During the one-hour country music showcase, emerging artists compete for the opportunity to win $100,000 and perform at the Grand Ole Opry.

Shania Twain and Travis Tritt are also coaches on the new series.

====== 92 ========

RHOC'S SHANNON BEADER TREATS THREE DAUGHTERS TO BEACH HOLIDAY FOR THANKSGIVING AMID MESSY DIVORCE

Shannon Beador treated her daughters to a beach holiday for Thanksgiving.

The Real Housewives Of Orange County star and her three girls - 17-year-old Sophie and 14-year-old twins Stella and Adeline — are vacationing in Coronado, an island off of San Diego.

And the family getaway couldn't have happened at a better time as Shannon is trying to put her messy divorce to ex David Beador behind her.

Doting mom: Shannon Beador, 54, treated her daughters to a beach holiday for Thanksgiving; (pictured September)

The four ladies are staying at the luxurious Hotel Del Coronado. and Shannon spoke to People about the sun soaked trip.

'The kids said, "Mom, we want to go to Hawaii or Cabo. We gotta keep our tan up," And I said, "That’s not going to happen. Nope. We’re going to get in the car."'

'This hotel is beautiful,' Shannon gushed.

'Our room is right on the sand. They have a beach spin classes in the morning, fire pits for s’mores at night, an ice skating rink — we’re having a lovely time. I feel very thankful for my girls.'

Girls trip! Shannon and 17-year-old Sophie and 14-year-old twins Stella and Adeline played onthe beach with their dog Archie

Meanwhile, Shannon is still dealing with her ex David after they filed for divorce back in December 2017.

The estranged couple recently met in divorce court to amend David's spousal support requirements of $22,500 per month.

The day in court resulted in a deadlock between the 54-year-old reality star and Beador, according to Radar.

Living it up! 'Our room is right on the sand. They have a beach spin classes in the morning, fire pits for s’mores at night, an ice skating rink — we’re having a lovely time. I feel very thankful for my girls.'

David was ordered by the court to continue paying the previously determined amount until both parties could provide updated financial statements post tax season.

More than $12,000 of David's family support goes to his daughters, while $10,500 goes directly towards Shannon's expenses.

The RHOC star makes roughly $24,000 per episode, according to a court-appointed forensic accountant.

The Beadors, who were married for 17 years, separated in October 2017 after their marriage took a turn for the worse in 2015 when David admitted to being unfaithful.

====== 93 ========

ERIC BANA OPENS UP ABOUT PLAYING A SOCIOPATH CONMAN IN NEW NETFLIX SERIES DIRTY JOHN

He shot to fame in comedy sketch Full Frontal before going on to star in the famed Australian film Chopper.

And now Eric Bana has revealed his fears about playing a sociopath conman in his upcoming Netflix series Dirty John.

'There is a lot of stuff about him that I don't want to know,' the father-of-two told Saturday's Telegraph.

'There is a lot of stuff about him that I don't want to know!' Eric Bana (left) talked about playing a sociopath conman in the new Netflix series Dirty John on Saturday. Eric is playing John Meehan (right, pictured with Debra Newell)

Based on the renowned podcast, the upcoming drama centres on the real-life love story between John Meehan and Debra Newell, played by actress Connie Britton.

The pair met on an over-50s dating website in 2014, and five weeks after their first date, they were living together in Newport, California, before tragedy struck.

And Eric went on to say that the appeal was not down to portraying the character, but rather delving into his sociopathic ways

Stranger than fiction: Based on the renowned podcast, the upcoming drama centres on the real life love story between John Meehan and Debra Newell, played by actress Connie Britton. Pictured: Eric with Connie

'There's a lot of scope to explore that behaviour,' he said.

'While there's a lot of factual information about John, sometimes it can be like quicksand.'

Eric became a household name in '90s comedy sketch series Full Frontal, before starring in comedy-drama The Castle and film Chopper in 2000.

In-depth: Eric (left) said the appeal was not down to portraying the character, but rather delving into his sociopathic ways. John Meehan is pictured on the right

The Troy actor has previously worked alongside Hollywood A-listers, including the likes of Brad Pitt and Jude Law, and starring in blockbusters such as Munich, The Time Traveller's Wife and Hulk.

To date, Dirty John is Eric's first US television series.

'I've looked at a lot of TV stuff over the past 10 years, and this was the one that got me,' he told the same publication earlier this year.

Eric lives in Melbourne with his wife Rebecca Gleeson, 47, and their two children, Klaus, 19, and Sophia, 16

====== 94 ========

LUKE BRYAN REVEALS HIS WIFE 'SUPPORTED' HIM AT THE START OF HIS MUSIC CAREER

He's worth a reported $52million.

But Luke Bryan wasn't always doing so well, with the 42-year-old revealing his early career struggles in an interview on the Pickler & Ben show on Monday.

The country star said that wife Caroline Boyer 'was the one bringing in the dough' during the early days of his music career.

Scroll down to see video

Success story: Luke Bryan wasn't always doing so well, with the 42-year-old revealing his early career struggles in an interview on the Pickler & Ben show on Monday

The college sweethearts married in December 8, 2006, but weren't financially stable from the outset.

'When we got married, her career supported me when I was making about $10,000 a year,' the What Makes You Country hitmaker told hosts Kellie Pickler and Ben Aaron.

'She was the one bringing in the dough.'

Doing it tough: The country star said that wife Caroline Boyer 'was the one bringing in the dough' during the early days of his music career

Proud parents: The pair have two sons together, Thomas Boyer Bryan, ten, and Tatum Christopher Bryan, eight. Seen here earlier this month

Tough times: The college sweethearts married in December 8, 2006, but weren't financially stable from the outset

The American Idol judge also spoke about the couple's turbulent relationship beginnings.

'We’d date a little in college, and then we’d break up,' said Luke.

'And then I would be devastated. We’d get back together, break up. Then she would be devastated.'

Success story: The American Idol judge also spoke about the couple's turbulent relationship beginnings. Seen here this month

The country crooner continued: 'We finally decided we were not going to break up anymore. And then I graduate college, and she has two more years, and then we break up again. It was like the Dark Ages for both of us'

'And then we were apart for five-and-a-half years, which was kind of a blessing because I went off to Nashville, got all this going.'

'She finished college. She went and actually had a career.'

The pair have two sons together, Thomas Boyer Bryan, ten, and Tatum Christopher Bryan, eight.

====== 95 ========

VANDERPUMP RULES' SCHEANA MARIE IS 'ESPECIALLY THANKFUL FOR' HER RUMORED BEAU ADAM SPOTT

Vanderpump Rules star Scheana Marie Jancan gushed on Thanksgiving that she was 'especially thankful for' her new castmate and rumored boyfriend, Adam Paul Spott.

'Thankful to have so many amazing and positive people in my life,' the 33-year-old Bravo-lebrity - who boasts 1.3M followers - captioned a desert piggyback snap.

'Especially this guy! @spottmeagram #thanksgiving #blessed!'

Desert piggyback ride: Vanderpump Rules star Scheana Marie Jancan gushed on Thanksgiving that she was 'especially thankful for' her new castmate and rumored beau, Adam Paul Spott

The 33-year-old Bravo-lebrity captioned the snap: 'Thankful to have so many amazing and positive people in my life ... especially this guy! @spottmeagram #thanksgiving #blessed'

But there was no sign of the 29-year-old bearded blond when the SUR server Insta-storied actual footage from her Thanksgiving festivities alongside mother Erika van Olphen.

Scheana confirmed to Vogue on November 15 that she and Adam have 'been on dates' and noted she was 'freezing her eggs this year.'

Since September, Jancan has referred to the 6ft2in Wilhelmina Model as her 'favorite person,' her 'plus one,' and her 'best friend for a year-and-a-half.'

'#thankful': But there was no sign of the 29-year-old bearded blond when the SUR server Insta-storied actual footage from her Thanksgiving festivities alongside mother Erika van Olphen

'Do the mash potato!' Scheana confirmed to Vogue on November 15 that she and Adam have 'been on dates' and noted she was 'freezing her eggs this year'

The real thing? Jancan has referred to the 6ft2in Wilhelmina Model as her 'favorite person,' her 'plus one,' and her 'best friend for a year-and-a-half' (pictured October 27)

The Azusa Pacific University grad's PDA post came less than a week after she was spotted getting 'cozy' with Tom Tom staffer Max Boyens at the Vanderpump Dogs Gala inside LA's Tagylan Cultural Complex.

'Scheana and Max were super adorable,' an eye witness told Us Weekly.

'He had his arm around her and was kissing her forehead.'

'He was kissing her forehead': The Azusa Pacific University grad's PDA post came less than a week after she was spotted getting 'cozy' with Tom Tom staffer Max Boyens (2-R) at the Vanderpump Dogs Gala (pictured August 6)

Her exes: The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills alum previously dated nineties supermodel Amber Valletta's brother Robert (L) from 2016-2017, and she was married to Michael Shay (R) from 2014-2017 (pictured in 2017 and 2016)

The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills alum previously dated nineties supermodel Amber Valletta's brother Robert from 2016-2017, and she was married to Michael Shay from 2014-2017.

Scheana - who's also bedded John Mayer and Eddie Cibrian - currently hosts a weekly PodcastOne podcast called Scheananigans where she interviews guests like 'Blasian' comedian Michael Yo.

Catch more of Jancan and her active love life in the 24-episode seventh season of Vanderpump Rules, which premieres December 3 on Bravo.

Second gig: Scheana - who's also bedded John Mayer and Eddie Cibrian - currently hosts a weekly PodcastOne podcast called Scheananigans where she interviews guests like 'Blasian' comedian Michael Yo (L, pictured Tuesday)

====== 96 ========

MEGHAN'S GRENFELL CHARITY COOKBOOK RAISES £370,000 IN JUST TWO MONTHS

The Duchess of Sussex’s Grenfell charity cookbook is well on its way to becoming a Christmas best-seller.

The £9.99 collection of recipes has sold 38,811 copies since it was published two months ago.

Sales of Together: Our Community Cookbook, which contains 50 kitchen favourites from women from the Grenfell community, total £372,374, according to figures obtained by data analyst Nielsen.

Meghan at The Hubb Community Kitchen earlier this week, where cooks cater for families made homeless by the Grenfell fire

It is Meghan’s first solo project since joining the Royal Family.

The duchess, 37, came up with the idea for a book in aid of those affected by the Grenfell Tower tragedy, which killed 72 people, after secretly visiting the Al Manaar Muslim cultural heritage centre. She made a series of trips to meet survivors of the inferno joined by a protection officer and another aide, but without Prince Harry.

Her private missions echo those of Princess Diana, who would leave Kensington Palace at night to speak to the homeless and visit shelters.

Meghan met women from The Hubb Community Kitchen who were using recipes passed down through generations to cater for families made homeless by the fire. It was this which gave her the inspiration for the book.

Meghan, whose first baby with Prince Harry is due in the spring, holds her bump today as she talks to the chefs

She talked to a number of projects but is understood to have developed a particular bond with the women as she felt she could do something tangible to help.

Meghan ‘got stuck in straight away’, working at the community kitchen and helping create the book, which is supported by The Royal Foundation and published by Penguin Random House.

Of her first visit, she said: ‘An apron was quickly wrapped around me, I pushed up my sleeves, and I found myself washing the rice for lunch.’ In the foreword to the book, she wrote: ‘I immediately felt connected to this community kitchen; it is a place for women to laugh, grieve, cry and cook together.’

Sales of the cookbook, which reached number one on the Amazon chart within hours of its publication, have been so impressive that they have dwarfed television chef Gino D’Acampo’s latest publication, Gino’s Italian Adriatic Escape, which has shifted 6,235 copies since its release in October.

The money from the community cookbook has helped transform the facility, which is based in north Kensington, with a redesigned and refitted kitchen. It now opens seven days a week instead of only two as previously.

Meghan, who is expecting her first child with Prince Harry, has continued to visit the kitchen and earlier this week helped the women prepare fresh meals.

Pictures showed her chatting and laughing with the women, who now cook 200 meals a day to deliver to places such as homeless shelters and women’s refuges.

They are also planning outreach projects from the kitchen.

====== 97 ========

LIAM HEMSWORTH WISHES A HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO HIS 'SWEET GIRL' MILEY CYRUS

They lost their home in Malibu due to the wildfires in California.

But Liam Hemsworth still had plenty to be thankful for, with the Australian actor wishing his on-off fiance Miley Cyrus a happy birthday the day after Thanksgiving.

'You're more precious than ever,' gushed the 28-year-old via Instagram about his 26-year-old popstar partner.

'Precious': Liam Hemsworth still had plenty to be thankful for this year, with the Australian actor wishing his on-off fiance Miley Cyrus a happy birthday the day after Thanksgiving

The accompanying photo showed the Wrecking Ball singer surrounded by hundreds of balloons.

Cyrus was barefoot and delightedly hugging a dog in the pic.

The star of The Hunger Games captioned his post: 'Happy birthday to my sweet girl. You’re more precious than ever. So thankful to have you in my life. [HEART EMOJI]'

Generous: Miley, 25, and 28-year-old Liam, pictured together at the Vanity Fair Oscars Party in Beverly Hills back in March, have donated $500,000 to restore 'Malibu's magic'

Cyrus celebrated her 26th birthday alongside fiance Hemsworth and her family.

Members of the pop megastar's family took to social media to share photos and video from the low-key celebration.

This all comes just days after Miley and the Expendables 2 actor lost their home in Malibu due to the wildfires in California.

Better together: Miley Cyrus celebrated her 26th birthday alongside fiance Liam Hemsworth and her family

Her older brother Trace, 29, shared an adorable video of father Billy Ray and mother Tish bringing out the cake to sing Happy Birthday.

It seemed as if Miley's parents surprised the actress as she sat at the head of the dining table.

Her famous father Billy Ray, 57, brought out the cake slowly however one the fire on one of the '26' candles went out so they had to redo it.

Surprise: Her older brother Trace, 29, shared an adorable video of father Billy Ray and mother Tish bringing out the cake to sing Happy Birthday

Aww: It seemed as if Miley's parents surprised the actress as she sat at the head of the dining table

Achy breaky: Her famous father Billy Ray, 57, brought out the cake slowly however one the fire on one of the '26' candles went out so they had to redo it

Trying again: The parents attempted to get it right a second time

Happy: Miley grinned from ear-to-ear as her mother filmed

Liam could be seen using his best baritone voice as he serenaded his ladylove.

No doubt it seemed to be a wonderful time of family bonding amid a rough past few weeks.

Last week it was reported that Miley and Liam have donated $500,000 in a bid to restore 'Malibu's magic' after losing their home in the devastating wildfire.

Support system: Liam could be seen using his best baritone voice as he serenaded his ladylove

Fun times: Miley was in good spirits despite all the bad news of late

The couple gave money to The Malibu Foundation through Cyrus' charity, The Happy Hippie Foundation.

'Miley and Liam lost their home but are very grateful to be safe along with their animals! Their community and state are very special to them and they want to give back to the place that has created so many beautiful memories for themselves and others,' a representative for Cyrus said on Tuesday.

Heartbroken: Liam shared this photo of the Malibu home he shared with Miley last week. The house was destroyed in the Woolsey fires

Before: The 'love' sign took pride of place in the couple's compound

Tough times: New aerial photos have emerged of the damage done by the wildfires

Fires have been burning swaths of southern California since Thursday, forcing evacuations and threatened thousands of homes.

'These funds will be used for those in financial need, emergency relief assistance, community rebuilding, wildfire prevention and climate change resilience,' the statement read.

On Tuesday, shared a heartbreaking glimpse at the remains of their beloved Malibu residence.

The Australian actor posted a photo that showed a scorched 'love' sign laying amid burnt rubble from the house, which was torched in the Woolsey Fires.

Devastation: The estate was left almost completely decimated as shown in these photos taken on Tuesday

Sad: The fire around the property has since been extinguished

Awful: Closer views of the building itself show it in rubble

Life: Much of the vegetation the area managed to stay in tact despite the raging fire

Tough day: On Monday, Liam surveyed the damage to girlfriend Miley Cyrus' property after wildfires destroyed their home

Earlier, Liam [L] was spotted heading to Miley's home with brother Luke [in driver's seat]

Devastation: The fire has ripped through the Malibu area

The sign once took up pride of place in an outdoor area of their vast compound.

He wrote: 'It's been a heartbreaking few days. This is what's left of my house. Love. Many people in Malibu and surrounding areas in California have lost their homes also and my heart goes out to everyone who was affected by these fires.

'I spent the day in Malibu yesterday and it was amazing to see the community pulling together to help each other out in any way they can. Malibu is a strong community and this event is only going to make it stronger.

'Thankful for the all the great local guys that helped keep smaller fires out around my property. I love u guys. I love you Malibu. Thank you to all the hero firefighters around California. It's going to be a journey to rebuild. Stay strong all. To help/donate visit @malibufoundation and @happyhippiefdn'

Sad: Liam shared this video while driving through the fire-ravaged area in Malibu

'Stay strong Malibu': He shared the video with a positive message

Moving forward: In the clip a truck for the Gas Company could also be seen which is also working to restore the community

The statewide death toll from wildfires over the past week in California has reached 50 - 48 who died in the Camp Fire which torched the town of Paradise, and two who died in the Woolsey fire which burned through Malibu.

On Monday, Liam surveyed the damage to the singer's property after wildfires destroyed their home.

Earlier The Hunger Games star was pictured riding around in a Club Car with his brother Luke Hemsworth in Malibu as both men wore respirators to guard against the lingering smoke.

The 28-year-old's girlfriend revealed Sunday that her 'house no longer stands' on her $2.525M Malibu compound after being scorched by the raging wildfires.

The Hunger Games hunk surveyed the damage while his 38-year-old brother drove the cart.

Both brothers of Thor star Chris shielded their eyes from the intense smoke.

'I feel very lucky to be part of this incredible community': Much like his youngest brother, Luke, 38, took to social media to post a sad photo of part of his garage which went up in flames

Sad: Luke also shared a before and after of Miley and Liam's 'love' sign

Reflection: Luke also shared this photo of people who have been working to help restore the Malibu community

Much like his youngest brother, Luke took to social media to post a heartbreaking photo of part of his home which went up in flames.

In the picture there are sugar skulls in frame with the charred remains of the garage behind them.

Luke wrote a lengthy caption which read: 'Feeling lucky that our house survived and we only lost the garage. But a lot of others lost everything and my heart goes out to all of them. Most of all I feel very lucky to be part of this incredible community.

'The selflessness of everyone who lives here and have lost their homes brings me to tears. The tired, smiling familiar faces of our friends who are still putting out smoldering fires makes me so grateful to call them my friends.'

Home: Cyrus' two-acre property reportedly used to feature a patio, fountains, gazebo, spa, and a two-car garage

Neighbors: Her fiance Liam owns the property (pictured at the top) right next to Miley's estate

He also took time to thank everyone who had donated their time, food, and supplies while pledging to be there to give back to anyone in the Malibu community who needs it.

Luke definitely seemed appreciative as he thanked many individually for their efforts before concluding: 'You guys are legends and I thank you from the bottom of my heart for your friendship. Anything u guys need, you got it.'

Meanwhile, Miley's rainbow-hued recording studio appeared to be still standing, but she's 'completely devastated' by the Woolsey Fire, which has burned through 85K acres, and destroyed homes owned by Gerard Butler, Robin Thicke, and Camille Grammer.

'I am one of the lucky ones. My animals and LOVE OF MY LIFE made it out safely & that's all that matters right now,' the Hannah Montana alum - who boasts 158.6M social media followers - Insta-storied.

Before: Miley revealed Sunday that her 'house no longer stands' on her $2.525M Malibu compound after being scorched by the raging California wildfires

After: The 25-year-old pop star's rainbow-hued recording studio appeared to be still standing as shown in this photo taken Sunday

'My house no longer stands but the memories shared with family & friends stand strong. I am grateful for all I have left. Sending so much love and gratitude to the firefighters and LA country Sheriff's department!' continued the 25-year-old pop star.

The goddaughter of Dolly Parton's two-story contemporary home had four bedrooms, three bathrooms, and it was located just East of Paradise Cove.

Cyrus' two-acre property, which she shared with on/off fiancé Liam Hemsworth, reportedly used to feature a patio, fountains, gazebo, spa, and a two-car garage.

====== 98 ========

DWAYNE 'THE ROCK' JOHNSON RECALLS WHEN HE 'COULDN’T EVEN AFFORD TO BUY A TURKEY' ON THANKSGIVING

He's one of the world's top earning entertainers.

But Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson wasn't always doing so well, a fact the 46-year-old ruminated on in a Friday Instagram post.

'Exactly 27 years ago on Thanksgiving while living in Tampa, Fl we were so p*** broke, that we couldn’t even afford to buy a turkey,' recalled the Furious 7 star from the UK.

Talking turkey: Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson wasn't always doing so well, a fact the 46-year-old ruminated on in a Friday Instagram post

But while not being in his home nation for Thanksgiving, the actor was sure to celebrate the holiday in the traditional way, as he posted a picture to his Instagram of a huge cooked Turkey, alongside the caption: 'This Thanksgiving was a unique one, in that it was the first time I’ve ever not been back home in the U.S. of A.

'But here in London, we still cooked and laid out a big, sweet spread to give our thanks and boundless gratitude for our loved ones. The weird thing - is every Thanksgiving I gotta take a moment to remember exactly 27 years ago on Thanksgiving while living in Tampa, Fl we were so p*** broke, that we couldn’t even afford to buy a turkey, so we were praying someone would invite us over for Thanksgiving.

He added: 'Well, the universe answered our prayers, because friends of ours called to say Happy Thanksgiving and we were like, “HAPPY THANKSGIVING WE’LL BE RIGHT OVER TO CELEBRATE WITH YOU GUYS K BYE!!” They were like, “Uhhh okaaaay great, see you soon?” A Very true and f****** embarrassing story.

'I’m weird this way, but remembering s***like this helps me live a better and more grateful life. I’m quite sure I need therapy for this, but until then tequila will be my loving & empathetic therapist.'

You've come a long way baby: 'Exactly 27 years ago on Thanksgiving while living in Tampa, Fl we were so p*** broke, that we couldn’t even afford to buy a turkey,' recalled the Furious 7 star from the UK

Johnson made a superstar arrival in the UK as he is said to be renting the same Richmond home where Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie reportedly stayed in 2016.

The former wrestler is well-known for his incredibly ripped physique and workout regime, so brought reinforcements in the form of his 'Iron Paradise' - the travel gym he brings on any location, complete with 40,000lbs of equipment, a full kitchen, no mirrors and hundreds of aides on hand to help set-up.

Seemingly confirming his move, the hardman took to Instagram to share a snap as he posed on horseback outside the palatial home, while also revealing the horse in question had starred in Gladiator and Robin Hood.

The stunning home, which has previously seen guests including Elton John and Fergie, is said to feature eight bedrooms, eight bathrooms, a garden gazebo, indoor swimming pool and a playground.

New images show the digs for the actor, with the sprawling estate undoubtedly the perfect set-up for the hunky star, as he celebrated Thanksgiving away from his native country.

In his incredible Instagram post to announce his arrival, the dashing actor posed horseback while adding the caption: 'Good Thanksgiving hang with Rusty at the crib here in London. This ol’ boy’s a genuine star as he was Russell Crowe’s horse in one of my favorite films, GLADIATOR as well as ROBIN HOOD...

Wow! The 46-year-old former wrestler is well-known for his incredibly ripped physique and workout regime, so brought reinforcements in the form of his 'Iron Paradise' - the travel gym he brings on any location, complete with 40,000lbs of equipment, a full kitchen, no mirrors and hundreds of aides on hand to help set-up

'Rusty’s clearly happy when Russell is on his back, because I heard that unmistakeable horse groan of “Holyyyy shit please don’t get on me” when 6’5 265lbs of tattooed sunshine saddled up on him. Thankful to Rusty and his pal, Rosey for coming to the crib today for some Thanksgiving ridin’ w/ the ohana.'

And wanting to draw his celebrations to a close in style, the Rock visited the West End, writing: 'To close out our Thanksgiving, @laurenhashianofficial took me to see @hamiltonmusical here in London.

'She had seen it multiple times and this was my FIRST TIME (I know, but I’m a very busy dude;) seeing this extraordinary and iconoclastic piece of art. After the show, we went backstage to meet this crazy talented and passionate cast.

Cast and crew: And wanting to draw his celebrations to a close in style, the Rock visited the West End, writing: 'To close out our Thanksgiving, @laurenhashianofficial took me to see @hamiltonmusical here in London'

Way back when: Prior to their tragic split, Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie (pictured in 2015) are said to have rented out the same house in Surrey according to wide spread reports - paying $24,000 a month to stay there

'Big shout to my brother Lin Manuel Miranda for creating this whole thing and for inspiring me on yet another level. And to the HAMILTON cast members worldwide, THANK YOU for sharing your passions and above all else/ I’m scrappy and hungry and I am not throwing away my shot. Ever. Love y’all and thank ya for being so cool and gracious.'

In November, while on location in Vancouver, Dwayne shared a touching Instagram post as he thanked his team for their assistance with The Iron Paradise: 'Sending a huge thank you to the hundreds of hard working crew responsible for always setting up my Iron Paradise aka my traveling carnival in every location I film at...

'40,000lbs of steal and iron. I can maintain and build upon an insane work schedule, but only due to having my anchor ready to go every morning at 5am. Grateful to the bone. Thank you guys. [sic]'

Happy days: '40,000lbs of steal and iron. I can maintain and build upon an insane work schedule, but only due to having my anchor ready to go every morning at 5am. Grateful to the bone. Thank you guys'

Last month, Dwayne celebrated his first week of shooting the highly-anticipated Fast & Furious spin-off Hobbs & Shaw by unveiling a first look photo. The image, which he posted to Instagram, features both of the title characters, Johnson's Luke Hobbs and Jason Statham's Deckard Shaw.

While Statham was spotted filming scenes for the spin-off in September, The Rock finished his first week on the set in October. 'We either gonna get along or we gonna get it on,' Johnson, 46, said in his post. 'F**k getting along,' he added, along with the devil emoji.

'Great first week of shooting our Fast & Furious spin-off, “HOBBS & SHAW” with my ace @JasonStatham,' the Skyscraper star said. 'We’re havin’ a blast disrupting the norm to deliver something fresh, cool, fun and bad ass for the fans,' he concluded, including the hashtags #TheOutlawLawman, #TheInternationalSpy, #HobbsAndShaw.

Always on-brand: He decorated the temporary gym with both logos celebrating the gym and also a poster for the movie

The action superstar also tagged the Universal Pictures Instagram along with the spin-off's director, David Leitch, while giving photo credit to his Seven Bucks Productions producing partner Hiram Garcia.

Very little is known about the story at this point, except that it will featuring the unlikely duo of U.S. Diplomatic Security agent Luke Hobbs and notorious criminal Deckard Shaw.

There is no love lost between Hobbs and Shaw, who were part of a massive prison brawl in 2017's The Fate of the Furious, although why they are teaming up in this spin-off is currently unclear.

Pumping iron: The ripped star pumped iron in front of his two-year-old daughter Jasmine

Johnson and Statham, 51, lead a cast that also includes Idris Elba as the new villain, along with Vanessa Kirby, who Variety reported in July is playing Deckard Shaw's sister, an MI-5 agent.

Helen Mirren played Deckard Shaw's mother in The Fate of the Furious, with Statham telling Collider in August that Mirren will return in Hobbs & Shaw.

'We’re trying to do something that isn’t so goofy though,' Statham said. 'I know the last time she slapped me around the face and we got this little … We don’t want to take it too seriously.'

====== 99 ========

KYLIE JENNER REVEALS SHE'S ADDED TO HER GROWING LUXURY CAR COLLECTION WITH A NEW LAMBORGHINI

She's a reality star, turned entrepreneur, who at 20 became the youngest person on the Forbes list of America's Richest Self-Made Women earlier this year.

And with her push towards billionaire status, Kylie Jenner has also fast become a car-loving beauty with a need for speed.

'I caved in and got the truck,' the now 21-year old shared on her Instagram Story, referring to what appears to be her new red Lamborghini Urus SUV.

Growing collection: Kylie Jenner, 21, shared on Instagram that she bought a new Lamborghini

The new one: Kylie's latest automobile purchase appears to be the Lamborghini Urus SUV

Kylie posted a brief video of her inside her new luxury ride, but her 120million followers only get a quick glimpse of her hand on the steering wheel.

She'll need to hold on to that wheel if she ever decides to really put the pedal to the metal. According to Road & Track magazine, the Lamborghini Urus will hit 190 mph flat out and run 62 mph in 3.6 seconds.

This quest for the best in automobiles does not come without a stiff price tag; the base price for this model was set at $200,000 in 2018 but there's no telling how many extra features Kylie added for her styling new purchase, or if she got a specially made model.

How it looks: The reality star's new Lamborghini looks like this showcase model

Need for speed: The Lamborghini Urus will hit 190 mph flat out and run 62 mph in 3.6 seconds

High end taste: Kylie has several Lamborghini's in her automobile collection

The Keeping Up With The Kardashians star has been on a buying frenzy when it comes to high end automobiles.

Over the summer, Kylie shared a snap of her posing on her orange $400,000 Lamborghini Aventador, as her matching $225,000 Mercedes G-Wagon could be seen idle in the background on the driveway of her home.

Kylie is also the proud owner of other Lamborghini's and Mercedes, and various Ferrari's, with one estimated to be worth $1.5million, plus some Range Rovers and Rolls Royce's.

Bangin': The makeup mogul also has a $1.5 million Ferrari LaFerrari in her collection

Matching: Kylie Jenner revealed she had got a $225,000 G-Wagon over the summer to match her $400,000 Lamborghini Aventador

Self-made! Kylie, according to Forbes, is on track to become a billionaire thanks to her makeup line Kylie Cosmetics, which is estimated to be worth over $900 million

====== 100 ========

PADMA LAKSHMI, 48, FLAUNTS FAB FIGURE IN TINY BLACK BIKINI ON VACATION IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

She is the longtime host of Top Chef.

But Padma Lakshmi sizzling in her latest social media posts.

The 48-year-old television personality took to Instagram to share some sultry bikini snaps on Friday morning.

Feel the glow: Padma Lakshmi took to Instagram to share some sultry bikini snaps on Friday morning

She was in absolutely fantastic shape as she flaunted her fit figure in a black bikini during her vacation in the Dominican Republic.

Padma certainly seemed to be enjoying her bikini break as she frolicked on the Caribbean beach .

It certainly looked like paradise as a double rainbow could be seen in the horizone of one of the snaps.

The Encyclopedia of Spices and Herbs author certainly has a lot to be grateful for as she shared a snap of herself kissing eight-year-old daughter Krishna Thea on the cheek.

Gorgeous: The 48-year-old television personality was in absolutely fantastic shape as she flaunted her fit figure in a black bikini during her vacation in the Dominican Republic

Making a splash: Padma certainly seemed to be enjoying her bikini break as she frolicked on the Caribbean beach

Padma wrote a lengthy caption to say what she is grateful for as she also made a political stand.

She wrote: 'As we gather for Thanksgiving today with our families and loved ones, we cannot forget that so many migrant children are still detained, separated from their families, some as young as toddlers.'

The reality star seemed to be referring to the Donald Trump administration's 'zero tolerance' policy of separating children from their parents, relatives, or other adults who accompanied them in crossing the border.

'This is an ongoing crisis': Padma certainly has a lot to be grateful for as she shared a snap of herself kissing eight-year-old daughter Krishna Thea on the cheek along with caption which made a political statement

Padma continued: 'This is an ongoing crisis. The narrative of demonizing immigrants is unacceptable. Let’s not forget, the Pilgrims were immigrants.

'The caravan of people trying to seek asylum are not a threat to us- they have nothing but the clothes on their backs.'

She then proceeded to use her platform for good in urging her followers to donate to charity.

Padma concluded: 'If you’re able, consider donating to the @aclu_nationwide or The Refugee and Immigrant Center for Education and Legal Services (@raicestexas.) #thanksgiving #littlehands #tbt.'

====== 101 ========

DANIEL RADCLIFFE REVEALS HE WILL NEVER GO AND SEE HARRY POTTER AND THE CURSED CHILD AT THE THEATRE

Daniel Radcliffe has revealed that he will never see Harry Potter And The Cursed Child in the theatre because he'd be too concerned that he was being watched.

The actor, 29, was making an appearance on Late Night With Seth Meyers when he made the shocking admission, on Friday night's show.

'I'm probably not going to, I don't have plans to,' he said before adding: 'I think it would throw me into some sort of existential crisis.'

Shocking: Daniel Radcliffe revealed on Friday that he will NEVER go and see Harry Potter And The Cursed Child at the theatre because he would have have an 'existential crisis'

He continued: 'It would not be a relaxing evening at the theatre. I would feel like I [was] being watched for my reaction.

'And maybe that is completely conceited and egotistical and people wouldn't care, but I do feel if I was just surrounded by Harry Potter fans, it would be a little odd.'

Discussing whether he'd don a disguise in order to see the play, he joked: 'The thing about a disguise is that if it stops working, then you're just a dude who wore a disguise.'

Uncomfortable: During his appearance on the Late Night with Seth Meyers, he added: 'It would not be a relaxing evening at the theatre. I would feel like I [was] being watched for my reaction'

Daniel took on the role of The Boy Who Lived when he was just eleven years old, and he played the titular character for ten years as part of the global phenomenon.

Since first debuting on the West End in the summer of 2016, Harry Potter and the Cursed Child has been a runaway success on the West End and Broadway.

Penned by J.K. Rowling, the play runs over two parts, with each spanning a massive 2.5 hours across separate performances.

Smash hit: Since first debuting on the West End in the summer of 2016, Harry Potter and the Cursed Child has been a runaway success on the West End and Broadway

Starting where the final book Harry Potter And The Deathly Hallows left off in its 'Epilogue' set in 2017, 19-years after the events of the rest of the book.

The main character is Albus Severus Potter, Harry's second son who he shares with Ginny Weasley, who is finally ready to attend Hogwarts like his dad.

Harry - who now works at the Ministry Of Magic - is given a supporting role, with the play predominately focusing on the time-turning exploits of Albus and company.

====== 102 ========

DJ DAVID GUETTA, 51, PACKS ON THE PDA WITH BIKINI-CLAD GIRLFRIEND JESSICA LEDON, 24, IN MIAMI BEACH

DJ David Guetta spent Thanksgiving day packing on the PDA with his much younger girlfriend Jessica Ledon on Miami Beach.

At 51, the divorced father-of-two is 27 years older than the Nu Talent actress, but age is nothing but a number to this couple.

As for the Cuban-born, Miami-raised stunner's so-called engagement ring, the French producer reportedly has zero plans to marry her.

Kisses by the sea: DJ David Guetta spent Thanksgiving day packing on the PDA with his much younger girlfriend Jessica Ledon on Miami Beach

Different generations: At 51, the divorced father-of-two is 27 years older than the Nu Talent actress, but age is nothing but a number to this couple

'It's a promise ring David gave Jessica last year - a promise to "love and commitment" - but not a promise to walk down the aisle,' a source told TMZ on Wednesday.

'Guetta straight-up doesn't believe in marriage anymore.'

Jessica showcased her six-pack abs and enviable curves in a maroon two-piece consisting of a supportive underwire top with a Brazilian-cut bikini.

Speaking of abs, the two-time Grammy winner showcased his fit 5ft9in form in simple black swim trunks while rocking an expensive-looking watch.

Diamond sparkler: As for the Cuban-born, Miami-raised stunner's so-called engagement ring, the French producer reportedly has zero plans to marry her

A source told TMZ on Wednesday: 'Guetta straight-up doesn't believe in marriage anymore'

The insider stressed: 'It's a promise ring David gave Jessica last year - a promise to "love and commitment" - but not a promise to walk down the aisle'

Bikini body: Jessica showcased her six-pack abs and enviable curves in a maroon two-piece consisting of a supportive underwire top with a Brazilian-cut bikini

Beach stroll: Speaking of abs, the two-time Grammy winner showcased his fit 5ft9in form in simple black swim trunks while rocking an expensive-looking watch

Joining the May-December duo for their fun day in the sun was their adorable French bulldog called Fellini.

Guetta and Ledon's fur-baby appears to be a new addition as they've only been posting pictures of the grey pup since April.

The jet-setting couple have reportedly began dating since mid-2015, and they went public a year later for a state dinner in honor of Cuban President Raúl Castro at the Élysée Palace.

David and Jessica were also seen spooning on a sun lounger as little Fellini looked up at them expectantly.

Puppy love! Joining the May-December duo for their fun day in the sun was their adorable French bulldog called Fellini

Family portrait: Guetta and Ledon's fur-baby appears to be a new addition as they've only been posting pictures of the grey pup since April

Still going strong! The jet-setting couple have reportedly began dating since mid-2015, and they went public a year later for a Paris dinner in honor of Cuban President Raúl Castro

'You are love and light in everyone's life, [especially] mine! Love you so so so much,' the Stella Adler-trained thespian gushed on Instagram November 7.

'My everything! I'm so lucky to share life with you, you inspire me every single day I know I don't say it enough but there's no denying that you're the BOSS baby!'

Before they got wet and wild, the former NuvoTV reality star was wearing a striped beige jumpsuit while the 'grandfather of EDM' stuck to a white undershirt and flip-flops.

Cuddle puddle: David and Jessica were also seen spooning on a sun lounger as little Fellini looked up at them expectantly

The Stella Adler-trained thespian gushed on Instagram November 7: 'You are love and light in everyone's life, [especially] mine! Love you so so so much'

She also wrote: 'My everything! I'm so lucky to share life with you, you inspire me every single day I know I don't say it enough but there's no denying that you're the BOSS baby!'

Sunscreen time: Before they got wet and wild, the former NuvoTV reality star was wearing a striped beige jumpsuit while the 'grandfather of EDM' stuck to a white undershirt and flip-flops

Surprise! Ledon teamed up with DJ Cedric Gervais to throw Guetta a surprise 51st birthday bash, and David shared a highlight reel from his party on Instagram November 16

Ledon teamed up with DJ Cedric Gervais to throw Guetta a surprise 51st birthday bash, and David shared a highlight reel from his party on Instagram November 16.

Jessica is the bearded musician's first public relationship since ending his 22-year marriage with club manager Cathy Lobé in 2014.

The French 51-year-old - who greatly contributed to Guetta's career - scored an eye-popping $15M in their divorce settlement, according to Page Six.

The ex-wife: Jessica is the bearded musician's first public relationship since ending his 22-year marriage with club manager Cathy Lobé in 2014 (R, pictured in 2012)

Divorcée: The French 51-year-old - who greatly contributed to Guetta's career - allegedly scored an eye-popping $15M in their divorce settlement (pictured Tuesday)

Still in school: The globetrotting Battle hitmaker's 14-year-old son Tim 'Elvis' Eric (L) and 11-year-old daughter Angie (R) both live in Paris with Cathy (pictured in 2017 and 2016)

The globetrotting Battle hitmaker's 14-year-old son Tim 'Elvis' Eric and 11-year-old daughter Angie both live in Paris with Cathy.

On Tuesday, Guetta dropped the Hannah Lux Davis-directed music video for his Say My Name collaboration with pop star Bebe Rexha and reggeaton sensation J. Balvin

David (born Pierre) will next man the decks at Capital's Jingle Bell Ball taking place December 2 at The 02 in London.

Already amassed 7.7M views! On Tuesday, Guetta dropped the Hannah Lux Davis-directed music video for his Say My Name collaboration with Bebe Rexha (M) and J. Balvin (R)

====== 103 ========

DIDDY POSTS THROWBACK VIDEO IN WHICH HE PRAYS FOR GOD'S HELP AS HE PREPARES FOR KIM PORTER'S FUNERAL

It's been reported that he is so devastated by the sudden death of Kim Porter that he may be too distraught to deliver the eulogy at her funeral on Saturday in Georgia.

And on Friday, Diddy gave a glimpse into his state of mind as he shared on Instagram an old video in which he's saying a prayer.

In the caption, the rapper and record producer wrote: 'This is I prayer I said like a year ago. God help us. Love to all.' (sic)

Scroll down for video

God's help: He's been devastated by the sudden death of Kim Porter a week ago and on Friday, Diddy gave a glimpse into his state of mind as he shared an old video in which he says a prayer

In the selfie clip he looks straight into the camera as he sits in front of a large window.

'I've been through some dark times...,' he began.

'There's a lot of people out there in that darkness today, in that lost place today, in that place where you feel stuck.... where you don't know what to do next.'

Shared a prayer: In the selfie clip he looks straight into the camera as he sits in front of a large window. 'I've been through some dark times...,' he began

Tragic: Porter, 47, the mother of three of Diddy's children, passed away at her home in Los Angeles on November 15. She is pictured with the rap mogul in 2005

'That means you have to get closer to Him. That means you have to say His name. That means you have to ask Him for help: 'God help me, God help me, God help me'.'

As the video continues, Diddy, 49, prays: 'God bless us all today ...show them the way, show them the light. You are the light.'

'I'm not your preacher, I'm just your brother,' he explained. 'Just sending you love and praying for everybody who can hear me. God bless.'

Sad: The couple dated on and off for 13 years, and in a tweet, Diddy said they had been 'more than soulmates'. They shared 11-year-old twins Jessie James and D'Lila and son Christian, 20

Porter, the mother of three of Diddy's children, passed away at her home in Los Angeles on November 15.

She and the singer had dated on and off for 13 years, and in a tweet, Diddy said they had been 'more than soulmates'.

They shared 11-year-old twin girls Jessie James and D'Lila, 11, and a son Christian, 20.

Porter also had a son Quincy, 27, from her marriage to Al B. Sure!

She died after suffering from a bout of pneumonia but her exact cause of death is unknown. The model's death certificate, which was obtained by The Blast, lists her cause of death as 'deferred.'

On Monday, Diddy shared some videos from inside his Bel Air mansion of the intimate memorial for his ex and mother of three of his children.

Huge framed photos of the model lined the steps of the rap mogul's home, flanked by lit candles.

The Bad Boy head honcho spent much of Sunday and Monday posting photo after photo of himself and Porter on social media.

In one emotional post, he poured out his heart to his late love.

'For the last three days I’ve been trying to wake up out of this nightmare. But I haven’t,' Diddy wrote on Instagram.

'I don’t know what I’m going to do without you baby. I miss you so much. Today I’m going to pay tribute to you, I’m going to try and find the words to explain our unexplainable relationship,' he said.

At her funeral Saturday in Columbus, Georgia, Faith Evans is set to perform and other celebrities are expected to attend.

====== 104 ========

NAOMI WATTS TALKS ABOUT HER UPCOMING ROLE AS A RECENTLY PARALYSED WOMAN

Naomi Watts is about to undertake what is arguably one of the most challenging roles of her career.

In an interview with The Daily Telegraph on Saturday, the 50-year-old spoke about her upcoming movie, Penguin Bloom.

The actress will play Sam Bloom, a real-life Australian woman who suffered an accident which left her paralysed while holidaying in Thailand with her family in 2013.

Scroll down for video

Starring role: Naomi Watts (pictured) is about to undertake what is arguably one of the most challenging roles of her career, she revealed on Saturday

The story, however, takes a much brighter turn when the family begin raising a baby magpie bird which had fallen from its nest.

'What a story of hope and beauty, how they dealt with such a tragic situation,' Naomi told The Daily Telegraph.

Sam suffered a fractured skull, bruising on the brain, punctured lungs and a shattered spine when a railing on an observation deck collapsed, sending her plummeting six metres to the ground below.

The actress will play Sam Bloom, a real-life Australian woman who suffered an accident which left her paralysed while holidaying in Thailand with her family in 2013. 'What a story of hope and beauty, how they dealt with such a tragic situation,' Naomi told The Daily Telegraph

After being told she'd never walk again, Sam was plunged into a deep depression, which is when the family discovered a baby magpie, which had fallen from a nest.

Deciding to hand-rear the bird, the family adopted her as a pet, naming her Penguin, with Sam's husband, Cameron Bloom, a photographer, capturing candid moments with their newest addition.

Penguin's Instagram page soon turned viral, inspiring a book, and now a movie with Naomi, with filming due to start in July next year on Sydney's northern beaches.

Momentous: The New York-based star only met the Blooms during her recent visit to Sydney ahead of the GQ Man of the Year Awards two weeks ago

The New York-based star only met the Blooms during her recent visit to Sydney ahead of the GQ Man of the Year Awards two weeks ago.

'[Naomi] is so nice and super lovely and down-to-earth,' Sam told The Daily Telegraph after their meeting.

'It was just normal, it was awesome. To be honest, I never thought anybody would want to make a movie about us.'

'[Naomi] is so nice and super lovely and down-to-earth,' Sam Bloom told The Daily Telegraph after their meeting. Pictured: Naomi Watts

In an interview with The Guardian in July 2017, Naomi said she has to feel a 'connection' with a role before she agrees to it.

'I don't think I'm any good if I don't feel an honest connection with the material,' she admitted.

====== 105 ========

PRINCE HARRY HOLDS PRIVATE MEETING WITH VICTIMS OF KNIFE CRIME

Prince Harry knows all too well the pain of losing a loved one having suffered the death of his mother when he was just 12 years old.

And now he and his wife, Meghan, are determined to stop others suffering bereavements by tackling the growing scourge of knife crime.

I can reveal that the Duke of Sussex attended a private meeting this week with those affected by youth violence.

‘The Duke and Duchess want to do all they can to help tackle violence among young people, particularly gang-related crime,’ a royal source tells me.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are trying to use their influence to stop gang-related crime, a source said. Pictured: The air at the Royal Variety Performance

‘They know it’s a growing problem. The meeting was just one of a series of initiatives he and Meghan will be undertaking.’

While Meghan was meeting survivors of the Grenfell Tower disaster on Wednesday, Harry held a ‘round table discussion’ with young people from MAC UK.

It’s an organisation based in the East End of London that tries to engage with youths who’ve been sucked into gangs or become mired in anti-social activity.

Harry is proving as good as his word because he announced in the summer that he planned to target the cause of deadly knife crime.

‘At the end of last year, knife crime skyrocketed,’ he said. ‘But [it] is a symptom of a cause. So therefore go and speak to the young people.’

He is using the Royal Foundation, which he heads with Meghan and the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, to run a project where young people will give their views on the root causes.

A Kensington Palace spokesman declines to comment on the ‘private’ meeting, but a source tells me: ‘It was held so that funders of MAC UK could hear directly from young people about what they think the solutions to youth violence are.’

Twinkly TV presenter Christine Bleakley gave birth to her first child — Patricia — with former England footballer Frank Lampard two months ago, but there is at least one person who still hasn’t met their baby.

Spanish model Elen Rivas, who has two daughters with ex-fiance Lampard, now the Derby County manager, tells me: ‘I haven’t — I’m not allowed past the door.’

Speaking at a VIP preview of Winter Wonderland in London’s Hyde Park, Elen (pictured) adds: ‘I’m the demon.’ Surely not?

Spanish model Elen Rivas, who has two daughters with ex-fiance Lampard, now the Derby County manager, hasn't met his former partner's new child

Strictly Come Dancing fans often claim it’s unfair that trained dancers such as Ashley Roberts and Faye Tozer compete against amateurs including Susannah Constantine and Seann Walsh.

And now veteran actress Susan Hampshire has revealed she rejected the chance to take part because her experience would give her an unfair advantage.

‘I was asked to do Strictly and I turned it down,’ the 81-year-old tells me.

‘I did train as a dancer, so I didn’t think it would be fair because the show used to be about people learning to dance from scratch.’

Widow of Charles’ murdered friend finds love again...

Prince Charles was one of the first to call the widow of his friend David Rattray after the eminent historian was shot dead during an attempted robbery at their 5,000-acre estate in South Africa.

So the heir to the throne will be delighted to learn that Nicky Rattray has found love again.

Nicky, 55, tells me she has quietly married retired Australian businessman Micko O’Byrne.

‘We met four and a half years ago,’ she says at Fugitives’ Drift Lodge, which she and David — who was murdered in 2007 — built nearly 30 years ago near the site of Rorke’s Drift, where 135 British soldiers held out against 4,000 Zulus in 1879.

‘Micko was staying as a guest — and I suppose you could say I stopped him in his tracks, as he was driving to Europe. It was very romantic.’

She married Micko, who was also widowed, earlier this year at the lodge, which she runs with two of her three sons. ‘There was never any question of me leaving despite what happened,’ she says. ‘The whole lodge is a memory to David.’

Petworth’s new Chilean chatelaine

Immortalised by J. M. W. Turner, and containing a priceless collection of his paintings, Petworth House is one of our finest stately homes.

And now the 700-acre West Sussex property is to benefit from an injection of Latin American spice as its next chatelaine is due to be a firecracker from Chile.

George Wyndham, 35, whose family seat is Petworth, has become engaged to South American artist Cruz Maria Vallespir Naretto, 33.

‘We’ll probably have two weddings next summer — one in Petworth and one in Chile,’ George tells me. ‘I had the engagement ring designed with Chilean lapis with six diamonds around it.’

George Wyndham, 35, whose family seat is Petworth, has become engaged to South American artist Cruz Maria Vallespir Naretto, 33.

The globe-trotting couple lived in Shanghai, where they ran an events company known for organising ‘cabaret-themed revelries and all-around debauchery’, and George played harmonica in a folk group. They now live in London, where he works in PR.

His fiancee is a great art lover and feels at home at 17th century Petworth. Cruz tells me: ‘When I came to visit Petworth it felt so natural to be there and his parents were so nice. They opened their arms to me.’

George’s grandfather handed much of the house’s contents over to the state in 1947 in lieu of inheritance tax, on condition the family remained. It’s now managed by the National Trust.

George’s father, author and historian Max Egremont who worked tirelessly for Friends of the National Libraries for 30 years, has said: ‘It saved the place for ever and means the things that were collected for the house will stay in the house. I don’t regret it at all.

====== 106 ========

PINK'S HUSBAND CAREY HART CALLS HER A 'MILF' ON INSTAGRAM AFTER HAVING THE 'PERFECT' THANKSGIVING

They've been married since 2006.

And on Friday, Pink's husband Carey Hart revealed he's still smitten with the 39-year-old singer, whom he dubbed a 'milf' on Instagram.

'Hope everyone had a great thanksgiving yesterday. Ours was perfect,' he wrote. 'Let's all try to keep this thankful thing rolling. #Milf.'

Lovebirds: On Friday, Pink's husband Carey Hart posted a photo with his 39-year-old wife, whom he dubbed a 'milf'

Hart, a former motocross rider, wore a provocative holiday sweater in the photo, while Pink donned a patterned frock.

The pair, who were all smiles, posed with beers in hand on the porch of a blue and white house.

On Thanksgiving, Carey cooked up two turkeys in a massive smoker.

'We slayed turkey day,' he captioned an image of the finished meat.

Yum! On Thanksgiving, Carey cooked up two turkeys in a smoker. 'We slayed turkey day,' he captioned an image of the finished meat

In an interview with PEOPLE in April, Pink—born Alecia Beth Moore—gushed about Hart.

'We're good partners and he's a fantastic dad,' she said.

Pink and Carey are parents to son Jameson, one, and Willow, age seven.

Party of four: Pink and Carey are parents to son Jameson, one, and Willow, age seven

Come March 2019, the So What singer will continue her Beautiful Trauma world tour that concludes in early October.

While chatting with Redbook, she discussed letting her kids tag along.

'If I had nannies raising my kids and just wanted to be a rockstar and party all the time, I wouldn't be successful and I wouldn't be happy,' Pink said.

====== 107 ========

JULIE ANDREWS HAS SECRET ROLE IN DC'S SUPERHERO FLICK AQUAMAN

She won't be seen in the the sequel to Mary Poppins this holiday season.

But Julie Andrews will be heard in another blockbuster as it has been revealed she has a secret role Aquaman.

The 83-year-old actress voices the mythic Karathen, 'an undersea creature that holds the key to Arthur Curry’s (Jason Momoa) quest to unite the Atlantean and surface worlds' according toEntertainment Weekly.

Secret role: Julie Andrews , 83, has a secret role Aquaman; (pictured March)

'We wanted the Karathen to have the voice of a classic British actress, albeit somewhat digitally altered,'explained Aquaman producer Peter Safran.

And when we found out Julie was interested and available and excited to do it, casting her was a no-brainer.'

Interestingly, Aquaman is being released the same time as Mary Poppins Returns starring Emily Blunt.

Andrews declined to appear in the sequel.

Mthical: The actress voices the mythic Karathen, 'an undersea creature that holds the key to Arthur Curry’s (Jason Momoa) quest to unite the Atlantean and surface worlds'

And Safran jokingly added, 'Who knew that Aquaman would have the real Mary Poppins this Christmas?'

Filmed primarily on the Gold Coast in 2017, the blockbuster also stars Nicole Kidman as Arthur's mother and Amber Heard as the exiled Atlantean Princess of Xebel.

Safran explained the world of Aquaman in an earlier interview for Entertainment Weekly, telling the magazine: 'After the fall of Atlantis, some of the kingdoms evolved and some devolved.

Dueling: Aquaman is being released the same time as Mary Poppins Returns starring Emily Blunt

'This is one that evolved. This is a kingdom that’s primarily artistic and cerebral, with poets and philosophers.'

The film comes out just in time for holiday movie season, arriving in theaters December 21.

Patrick Wilson, Dolph Lundgren and Yahya Adbul-Mateen II also star in the DC Comics origins film.

====== 108 ========

MOVE OVER KIM KARDASHIAN, LIZ HURLEY IS THE NEW QUEEN OF THE BEHINDS, RESEARCH SAYS

Kim Kardashian managed to ‘break the internet’ with her famous derriere.

But women who hoped the reality star had brought big bottoms back into fashion may want to think again.

While tiny waists and wide hips are in demand, it appears the most attractive women are more in proportion.

Researchers found that actresses Liz Hurley (right) and Emma Thompson were closer to perfection than Kim Kardashian (left) and Adele

A study from Ege University in Turkey has found the perfect waist-to-hip ratio is 0.7, the traditional measurements of American beauty queens.

That suggests Kylie Minogue, famous for a music video showing her pert bottom in gold hotpants, may have the ideal behind.

The results also put actresses Liz Hurley and Emma Thompson closer to perfection than Kardashian and Adele.

Researchers created digital images of bottoms using images of 100 women and 100 men, then asked people to judge which buttocks were most attractive in each sex.

The results show 0.7 is the perfect ratio for women and 0.85 in men.

Around one in five women already have the perfect hip-to-waist ratio.

But while 0.7 is best from the side, 0.75 looks better from the back, the study says.

====== 109 ========

EVA LONGORIA PUSHES BABY SON SANTIAGO IN STROLLER AS SHE ENJOYS DAY OUT WITH HUSBAND AND MOTHER

She welcomed her first child five months ago.

And Eva Longoria looks to be embracing motherhood in stride as she was spotted pushing son Santiago in a stroller in Los Angeles on Friday.

The 43-year-old television star rocked an atheltic outfit as she was joined by her husband Jose Baston and her mother Ella Mireles.

Family fun! Eva Longoria, 43, was psotted pushing her baby son Santiago as she was joined by her husband Jose Baston and her mother Ella Mireles in Los Angeles on Friday

The Desperate Housewives star looked every inch the small screens star even in her casual black ensemble with retro sunglasses.

The family outing comes after she shared an adorable shot of her five-month-old son Santiago.

'Lazy Sunday! #SundayFunday,' she captioned the Instagram photograph.

The newborn was seen laying down on his play mat have some playtime with some hanging toys.

Star power: The Desperate Housewives star looked every inch the small screens star even in her casual black ensemble with retro sunglasses

Eva and her husband José Antonio "Pepe" Bastón Patiño met via a mutual friend back in 2013.

'I was getting out of a bad relationship, and he was getting our of a relationship so there wasn't a connection,' she told People last year.

'So we had a pleasant conversation but there was no real connection.'

Baby Baston: Eva's family outing comes after she shared an adorable shot of her five-month-old son Santiago

Eva is the acting ambassador of the Global Gift Foundation- a charity that works to raise funds for foundations, charities and organisations that share its vision and aims.

Through events such as the various galas and fundraisers the charity funds several projects, including The Eva Longoria Foundation.

The charity, founded in 2012, aims to help Latinas build better futures through education and entrepreneurship, and confront the issue of poverty in their culture.

====== 110 ========

BEN MENDELSOHN CLAIMS WOMEN ARE BETTER ACTORS

He's an award-winning actor with a slew of gongs to his name.

But Ben Mendelsohn has claimed he'll never be as good as the actresses he works with.

'Women are almost always better actors,' the Robin Hood star told the Weekend Australian on Saturday.

Scroll down for video

'Women are better actors!' Ben Mendelsohn (pictured) claimed female thespians are more superior than male counterparts, on Saturday, because they 'have an easier time playing that scale of emotion'. Pictured in Los Angeles in October 2018

'They have an easier time playing scales of emotion, they're able to play them with greater ease than their male counterparts.'

He added: 'I see a lot more when I watch women!'

Best known for his his roles in blockbuster films, including The Dark Knight Rises and Star Wars: Rogue One, the Melbourne actor was once forced to work low-paying jobs to pay the bills just 10 years ago.

'They have an easier time playing scales of emotion, they're able to play them with greater ease than their male counterparts!' said Ben. The 49 year-old actor believes stars like Cate Blanchett (left) and Nicole Kidman (right) have a wider range than male actors

In a startling admission earlier this week, the star admitted he washed dishes at a restaurant in Sydney's Bondi and was also employed at a Brumby's Bakery during a career slump, according to the Herald Sun on Wednesday.

Reflecting on his incredible reversal of fortune since then, Ben said: 'It's been extraordinary. But that's what has been very sweet about it - you don't expect that in this business.'

He added: 'I still drive around and look back on a lot of years where things were leaner. I am still happily spun out by it.'

Struggles: He's known for his roles in blockbuster films, including The Dark Knight Rises and Star Wars: Rogue One, however things haven't always been easy for the Australian-born actor

Currently starring as the Sheriff of Nottingham in Robin Hood, it's the latest in a string of bad guy roles from Animal Kingdom to Spielberg's Ready Player One.

But in a recent interview with The Project, the 49-year-old said his penchant for playing bad guys has turned out 'alright' for him so far.

However, he said he's 'got a couple more feathers' in his cap and would like to play more diverse characters in the future.

====== 111 ========

BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN'S DAUGHTER JESSICA SPRINGSTEEN JUMPS AT MADRID HORSE WEEK

Bruce Springsteen's equestrian-inclined daughter is celebrating the Thanksgiving weekend out of the country.

Jessica Springsteen is in Spain for Madrid Horse Week, where she is competing against some of the other top riders in the world.

The 26-year-old show jumping champion rider said she was 'off to a good start' on Friday as she posted video of herself jumping during competition.

Not horsing around! Bruce Springsteen's show jumping champion daughter Jessica Springsteen competed in Madrid Horse Week on Friday

Saddle up! The 26-year-old is an elite rider on the Longines Global Champions Tour

Giddy up! She showed off her skills during a competition on Friday in the Spanish capital

Photos from the competition show Jessica in a helmet, white riding pants, and a black jacket, wearing a serious expression as she takes a jump with the horse.

'Volly off to a good start here at @madridhorseweek,' she wrote on Instagram.

The daughter of rock icon Bruce and his wife Patti Scialfa has also had a bit of time to go shopping, and polled her followers on whether she should buy a fitted red jacket for riding.

An elite rider on the Longines Global Champions Tour, she is often pictured riding on social media.

Though she grew up with The Boss in New Jersey, Jessica moved to the town of Valkenswaard in the Netherlands after graduating from Duke University in 2014.

Famous fam: Jessica's parents are Bruce Springsteen and Patti Scialfa

Woosh! Though she grew up with The Boss in New Jersey, Jessica moved to the town of Valkenswaard in the Netherlands after graduating from Duke University in 2014

More to come: Friday was the first day of the competition, which runs all weekend

'It's so great,' she told CNN last year. 'They have the woods, two indoor rings and the amazing [Valkenswaard] ring. I think the horses are really, really happy over here.

'Yeah, of course I missed my friends and family,' she added. 'Fortunately I get to go home quite a bit. I think I've done quite a good job of balancing it out.'

In fact, she was home in New Jersey for a day earlier this month, and got to go out for a ride with her mother, who got her into horses in the first place.

'My mum had always wanted to ride so we moved to a farm in New Jersey,' she said. 'She started taking lessons and then I also wanted to start. I never wanted to miss a lesson and I ended up being right across the street from a really top junior training barn called Beacon Hill.

These days, she is on the road a lot for her sport.

'There's a lot of traveling, a lot of packing and unpacking, but we're going to some of the most beautiful cities in the world so I really can't complain. You kind of feel like you're on a vacation,' she said.

Skill! 'There's a lot of traveling, a lot of packing and unpacking, but we're going to some of the most beautiful cities in the world so I really can't complain,' she said of her profession

She added: 'I feel so lucky to be able to do what I love every day. I love working with horses, and I can't imagine not having them in my life'

'I feel so lucky to be able to do what I love every day. I love working with horses, and I can't imagine not having them in my life.'

According to Business Insider, the United States Equestrian Federation ranks Jessica as the ninth-best show jumper in the country.

The competition circuit makes her money, too: She's won over $1,255,000 since 2010.

She's also competed against some other famous offspring, including Michael Bloomberg's daughter — but while Georgina Bloomberg competed in the Las Vegas National World Cup Qualifier Grand Prix a week ago, she was home in New York City for Thanksgiving this year.

Bill Gates' daughter Jennifer Gates was also as the Las Vegas competition.

====== 112 ========

MILEY CYRUS CELEBRATES 26TH BIRTHDAY ALONGSIDE FIANCE LIAM HEMSWORTH AND FAMILY AFTER MALIBU FIRE

Miley Cyrus celebrated her 26th birthday alongside fiance Liam Hemsworth and her family.

Members of the pop megastar's family took to social media to share photos and video from the low-key celebration.

This all comes just days after Miley and the 28-year-old actor lost their home in Malibu due to the wildfires in California.

Better together: Miley Cyrus celebrated her 26th birthday alongside fiance Liam Hemsworth and her family

Her older brother Trace, 29, shared an adorable video of father Billy Ray and mother Tish bringing out the cake to sing Happy Birthday.

It seemed as if Miley's parents surprised the actress as she sat at the head of the dining table.

Her famous father Billy Ray, 57, brought out the cake slowly however one the fire on one of the '26' candles went out so they had to redo it.

Surprise: Her older brother Trace, 29, shared an adorable video of father Billy Ray and mother Tish bringing out the cake to sing Happy Birthday

Aww: It seemed as if Miley's parents surprised the actress as she sat at the head of the dining table

Achy breaky: Her famous father Billy Ray, 57, brought out the cake slowly however one the fire on one of the '26' candles went out so they had to redo it

Trying again: The parents attempted to get it right a second time

Happy: Miley grinned from ear-to-ear as her mother filmed

Liam could be seen using his best baritone voice as he serenaded his ladylove.

No doubt it seemed to be a wonderful time of family bonding amid a rough past few weeks.

Last week it was reported that Miley and Liam have donated $500,000 in a bid to restore 'Malibu's magic' after losing their home in the devastating wildfire.

Support system: Liam could be seen using his best baritone voice as he serenaded his ladylove

Fun times: Miley was in good spirits despite all the bad news of late

The couple gave money to The Malibu Foundation through Cyrus' charity, The Happy Hippie Foundation.

'Miley and Liam lost their home but are very grateful to be safe along with their animals! Their community and state are very special to them and they want to give back to the place that has created so many beautiful memories for themselves and others,' a representative for Cyrus said on Tuesday.

Heartbroken: Liam shared this photo of the Malibu home he shared with Miley last week. The house was destroyed in the Woolsey fires

Before: The 'love' sign took pride of place in the couple's compound

Tough times: New aerial photos have emerged of the damage done by the wildfires

Generous: Miley, 25, and 28-year-old Liam, pictured together at the Vanity Fair Oscars Party in Beverly Hills back in March, have donated $500,000 to restore 'Malibu's magic'

Fires have been burning swaths of southern California since Thursday, forcing evacuations and threatened thousands of homes.

'These funds will be used for those in financial need, emergency relief assistance, community rebuilding, wildfire prevention and climate change resilience,' the statement read.

On Tuesday, shared a heartbreaking glimpse at the remains of their beloved Malibu residence.

The Australian actor posted a photo that showed a scorched 'love' sign laying amid burnt rubble from the house, which was torched in the Woolsey Fires.

Devastation: The estate was left almost completely decimated as shown in these photos taken on Tuesday

Sad: The fire around the property has since been extinguished

Awful: Closer views of the building itself show it in rubble

Life: Much of the vegetation the area managed to stay in tact despite the raging fire

Tough day: On Monday, Liam surveyed the damage to girlfriend Miley Cyrus' property after wildfires destroyed their home

Earlier, Liam [L] was spotted heading to Miley's home with brother Luke [in driver's seat]

Devastation: The fire has ripped through the Malibu area

The sign once took up pride of place in an outdoor area of their vast compound.

He wrote: 'It's been a heartbreaking few days. This is what's left of my house. Love. Many people in Malibu and surrounding areas in California have lost their homes also and my heart goes out to everyone who was affected by these fires.

'I spent the day in Malibu yesterday and it was amazing to see the community pulling together to help each other out in any way they can. Malibu is a strong community and this event is only going to make it stronger.

'Thankful for the all the great local guys that helped keep smaller fires out around my property. I love u guys. I love you Malibu. Thank you to all the hero firefighters around California. It's going to be a journey to rebuild. Stay strong all. To help/donate visit @malibufoundation and @happyhippiefdn'

Sad: Liam shared this video while driving through the fire-ravaged area in Malibu

'Stay strong Malibu': He shared the video with a positive message

Moving forward: In the clip a truck for the Gas Company could also be seen which is also working to restore the community

The statewide death toll from wildfires over the past week in California has reached 50 - 48 who died in the Camp Fire which torched the town of Paradise, and two who died in the Woolsey fire which burned through Malibu.

On Monday, Liam surveyed the damage to the singer's property after wildfires destroyed their home.

Earlier The Hunger Games star was pictured riding around in a Club Car with his brother Luke Hemsworth in Malibu as both men wore respirators to guard against the lingering smoke.

The 28-year-old's girlfriend revealed Sunday that her 'house no longer stands' on her $2.525M Malibu compound after being scorched by the raging wildfires.

The Hunger Games hunk surveyed the damage while his 38-year-old brother drove the cart.

Both brothers of Thor star Chris shielded their eyes from the intense smoke.

'I feel very lucky to be part of this incredible community': Much like his youngest brother, Luke, 38, took to social media to post a sad photo of part of his garage which went up in flames

Sad: Luke also shared a before and after of Miley and Liam's 'love' sign

Reflection: Luke also shared this photo of people who have been working to help restore the Malibu community

Much like his youngest brother, Luke took to social media to post a heartbreaking photo of part of his home which went up in flames.

In the picture there are sugar skulls in frame with the charred remains of the garage behind them.

Luke wrote a lengthy caption which read: 'Feeling lucky that our house survived and we only lost the garage. But a lot of others lost everything and my heart goes out to all of them. Most of all I feel very lucky to be part of this incredible community.

'The selflessness of everyone who lives here and have lost their homes brings me to tears. The tired, smiling familiar faces of our friends who are still putting out smoldering fires makes me so grateful to call them my friends.'

Home: Cyrus' two-acre property reportedly used to feature a patio, fountains, gazebo, spa, and a two-car garage

Neighbors: Her fiance Liam owns the property (pictured at the top) right next to Miley's estate

He also took time to thank everyone who had donated their time, food, and supplies while pledging to be there to give back to anyone in the Malibu community who needs it.

Luke definitely seemed appreciative as he thanked many individually for their efforts before concluding: 'You guys are legends and I thank you from the bottom of my heart for your friendship. Anything u guys need, you got it.'

Meanwhile, Miley's rainbow-hued recording studio appeared to be still standing, but she's 'completely devastated' by the Woolsey Fire, which has burned through 85K acres, and destroyed homes owned by Gerard Butler, Robin Thicke, and Camille Grammer.

'I am one of the lucky ones. My animals and LOVE OF MY LIFE made it out safely & that's all that matters right now,' the Hannah Montana alum - who boasts 158.6M social media followers - Insta-storied.

Before: Miley revealed Sunday that her 'house no longer stands' on her $2.525M Malibu compound after being scorched by the raging California wildfires

After: The 25-year-old pop star's rainbow-hued recording studio appeared to be still standing as shown in this photo taken Sunday

'My house no longer stands but the memories shared with family & friends stand strong. I am grateful for all I have left. Sending so much love and gratitude to the firefighters and LA country Sheriff's department!' continued the 25-year-old pop star.

The goddaughter of Dolly Parton's two-story contemporary home had four bedrooms, three bathrooms, and it was located just East of Paradise Cove.

Cyrus' two-acre property, which she shared with on/off fiancé Liam Hemsworth, reportedly used to feature a patio, fountains, gazebo, spa, and a two-car garage.

====== 113 ========

KHLOE KARDASHIAN PROUDLY SHOWS OFF HER POST-BABY ABS IN PURPLE SPORTS BRA AND LEGGINGS COMBINATION

She gave birth for the first time just seven months ago.

And Khloe Kardashian already looks as great as ever.

The 34-year-old reality star took to her Instagram on Friday morning to proudly flaunt her fit figure.

Showing off: Khloe Kardashian took to her Instagram on Friday morning to proudly flaunt her fit figure

Khloe looked to be in peak physical form as she sported a matching purple sports bra and high-waisted leggings combination.

The youngest of the Kardashian sisters made sure to display her impressively toned abs as she pulled down the bottoms to show off her gains.

This comes just hours after Khloe posed alongside beau Tristan Thompson and their daughter True for a holiday photo marking the tot's first Thanksgiving.

Khloe who coordinated with Tristan and True in pink captioned the photo: 'True and I were hungry'.

True's first Thanksgiving: Khloe shared this sweet family photo of her with boyfriend Tristan Thompson and True from Thanksgiving in Cleveland

True, seven months, looked gorgeous in a pink ballet outfit with embellished headband and slip-on shoes with pom-poms.

Tristan held on to his baby girl with one hand and wrapped his other arm around Khloe.

Koko wore her blonde locks down with some bejeweled hoop earrings.

No doubt missing all her family back in Los Angeles Khloe also posted an image with several generations of the Kardashian family.

The reality star shared a photo of her mom Kris Jenner, 62, holding Kim's 10-month-old daughter Chicago, with grandma Mary Jo 'MJ' Campbell, 84, holding her granddaughter True.

Special moments: In another cute image Khloe doted on True as the tot stood on one of the dining chairs

Ready to eat mom! Baby True wore a cute pastel pink outfit with embellished headband

The photo, which was shared on her Instagram Thursday, was captioned, 'Thankful for generations of love.'

Khloe's relationship with Cleveland Cavaliers NBA star Tristan Thompson has been controversial after it was revealed Thompson had cheated on her earlier this year while she was just days away from giving birth.

Many wondered how long the relationship would last, especially after Khloe put her plans to move to Cleveland this fall on hold.

Still, despite all that, a source told People that Khloe wanted True to spend her first Thanksgiving with her father.

Low key: The couple were joined by some of Tristan's friends who didn't want to smile for the snap

Generations of love: The 34-year-old reality star shared a photo of her mom Kris Jenner, 62, holding Kim's 10-month-old daughter Chicago, with grandma Mary Jo 'MJ' Campbell, 84, holding her granddaughter True

Khloe in Cleveland: Khloe's relationship with Cleveland Cavaliers NBA star Tristan Thompson has been quite controversial after it was revealed Thompson had cheated on her earlier this year

'Khloé is taking True to Cleveland for Thanksgiving,' says the source. 'Tristan has a game and can't make it to L.A.'

'It's True's first Thanksgiving, so Khloé wants them to be together,' the source added.

Khloe also posted her Thanksgiving planning guide on her official website on Friday, where she revealed a place card that said 'Thankful for Tristan.'

It's perhaps for the best that Tristan couldn't be in L.A. for the holiday, since People's source also indicates the rest of Khloe's family is not a fan of the NBA player.

'Khloé's family can't stand Tristan,' says the source. 'They understand that Khloé wants True to spend time with Tristan and are supportive of that.'

'There is not much love for Tristan any more,' the source added.

'Khloé's family can't stand Tristan,' says the source. 'They understand that Khloé wants True to spend time with Tristan and are supportive of that.'

Thanksgiving spread: Khloe also took to Instagram on Thursday to share photos of the Thanksgiving dinner spread that was laid out in Cleveland

Yum! The feast included plenty of sweet treats like iced donuts

Khloe also took to Instagram on Thursday to share photos of the Thanksgiving dinner spread that was laid out in Cleveland.

The cheating scandal was addressed in last week's episode of Keeping Up With the Kardashians, where Khloe admitted it wasn't any easier having this unfold with the public watching.

'It's so much harder to deal with it when it's so public. Everyone is giving you their opinions and their input and their unsolicited advice,' she said. 'Even the nurses and the doctors — everyone kind of like, looking sideways at the whole situation. That's hard, and it's humiliating.'

'He obviously f—ed up, major, but I'm not sure how I feel about everything right now,' the reality star added. 'In two weeks I might be like, 'You know what? I don't trust you and this isn't for me.' Or I might say, 'This is perfect. Let's keep it going.'

Khloe's dinner: Khloe also took to Instagram on Thursday to share photos of the Thanksgiving dinner spread that was laid out in Cleveland

====== 114 ========

JENNA BUSH HAGER SHARES FAMILY PHOTO AS SHE REMEMBERS LATE 'GANNY' BARBARA

Jenna Bush Hager celebrated Thanksgiving with her husband, Henry, and their two daughters, Mila and Poppy, on Thursday, as she and her family prepare for their first Christmas without her late 'Ganny,' Barbara Bush.

The 36-year-old Today correspondent took to Instagram to post a sweet family portrait, which appears to have been taken somewhere far warmer than their home in New York City.

'Happiest Thanksgiving!' Jenna wrote. So thankful for great friends, a beautiful country and these precious gifts!'

Scroll down for video

All smiles: Jenna Bush Hager shared this sweet family portrait after posing for a photo with her husband, Henry Hager, and their daughters, Mila and Poppy, on Thanksgiving

Mommy's girls: Mila, five, and Poppy, three, wore matching cream cardigans, tan wool skirts, and black Mary Janes. The pictures appear to have been taken somewhere relatively warm

She ended her post with a quote from Mr. Rogers, writing: 'The real issue in life is not how many blessings we have, but what we do with our blessings.'

In the snapshot, Jenna is wearing a sleeveless patterned dress and holding her three-year-old daughter, Poppy, who has her light brown hair in pigtails.

Her husband Henry, meanwhile, has five-year-old Mila in his arms as they smile for the family photo.

The family presumably spent the holiday somewhere warm; neither Jenna nor her daughters are wearing coats in the picture.

Although it is unclear where Jenna traveled to for Thanksgiving, she also posted pictures of her daughters on Instagram Stories.

Feeling the chill! On Black Friday, Jenna took to Instagram Stories to post photos of her daughters sitting in front of a fire and Mila getting a falconry lesson

Difficult: During a Today show segment that aired on Friday morning, Jenna opened up about having to celebrate her first Christmas without her late grandmother, Barbara Bush, this year

My loves,' she captioned a sweet snapshot of Mila posing with her arm around her little sister.

Both girls are wearing matching cream cardigans, tan wool skirts, and black Mary Janes.

The next day, the family appeared to be in a colder climate. Jenna posted a photo of her daughters sitting in front of a fireplace with another little girl, writing: 'Frozen.'

A second photo shows Mila bundled up in a pink winter coat with a fur hood while a bird is perched on her arm, which is covered with a protective glove.

The little girl appeared to be enjoying a visit with a trained falconer, and Jenna captioned the picture: 'Always loved a bird!'

Memories: Jenna was full of emotion as she explained how her grandmother needlepointed Christmas stockings for her daughters

Bittersweet: Jenna explained that her grandmother needlpointed as many stockings as she could before she died so all of her future grandchildren would have one

Jenna and her family are getting ready to celebrate their first Christmas without her late grandmother Barbara Bush, and she opened up about the matriarch during a Today show segment that aired on Friday morning.

'It is our first Christmas without our Ganny, and she was the force that kept us all together,' the Today correspondent explained.

'She was the one that we would be trying to be on our best behavior. Now she's not here, so I can go drink with Willie [Geist] — just kidding Ganny.'

All jokes aside, Jenna was full of emotion as she explained how her grandmother needlepointed Christmas stockings for her daughters.

'She started this tradition, which I just love. She needlepointed stockings . . . for my girls,' she said. 'They have one that will be hung on the chimney with care, and then she actually stockpiled.

Winter wonderland: Jenna said Mila's 'traditional' stocking has her 'name stitched in cursive next to poinsettias,' while Poppy's features a 'Christmas cat watching Santa suspiciously'

Looking back: In an essay for Southern Living, Jenna wrote about spending Christmas with her grandparents at the White House (pictured in 1991)

'She knew she was sick, so she did as many as she could,' Jenna continued. 'She needlepointed as many as she could so that grandbabies that came — great-grandbabies that came after she passed could have a stocking from her.'

'I think those are the things y'all, those are the things that matter. That's what I remember.'

Jenna wrote about her grandmother's needlepoint stockings, and how much she is going to miss her this holiday season in an essay for Southern Living.

'This Christmas, our first without Ganny, I'm nostalgic for the days when we were together. This time of year is full of love, but for those who have recently lost someone, that loss is illuminated,' she wrote.

Jenna detailed how her Ganny made her daughter Mila a 'traditional' stocking with her 'name stitched in cursive next to poinsettias,' while Poppy's features a 'Christmas cat watching Santa suspiciously.'

Good times: Jenna recalled how her whole family traveled to Camp David for Christmas Eve. President George H.W. Bush is pictured reading to his grandchildren at Camp David in 1991

Head start: Jenna and her twin sister, Barbara Bush, celebrated their 37th birthday a week early. The two were born on November 25

'Ganny left so much of herself here. And up until the last year of her life, she needlepointed feverishly,' Jenna wrote. 'She wanted to make sure there were stockings on reserve for great-grandchildren who would come after she was gone.

'That was our Ganny: She wanted to leave the world a little more beautiful through her work, her words, and even her needlepoint stockings.'

Jenna also recalled her family traveling to the White House for Christmas when her grandparents were president and first lady.

They would all drive to Camp David, the presidential retreat in Maryland, on Christmas Eve, and would gather in the main cabin, Laurel Lodge, 'for good food and plenty of laughter.'

In just a few days, Jenna and her twin sister, Barbara Bush, will be celebrating their 37th birthday.

Although they were born on November, 25, they enjoyed an early birthday dinner with their husbands last week.

Jenna posted a snapshot of herself sitting alongside her sister as they blew out the candles on their individual desserts a week before their birthday.

'Wombmate.com! Early birthday dinner with my favorite. (Thanks to our husbands!)' she captioned the image.

====== 115 ========

KIM’S ‘THANKFUL’ FOR HER GLAMOROUS TRANSFORMATION BUT KHLOE NOT HAPPY ABOUT UNFLATTERING THROWBACK

She's never publicly admitted to going under the knife.

But Kim Kardashian, 38, did refer to her extraordinary transformation in a throwback Instagram post on Thursday.

The picture was taken in 2008 outside the MTV TRL Studios in Times Square New York.

The reality television star shared a snap with sisters Kourtney, 39, and Khloe, 34, revealing that she is 'thankful for the glow up.'

Glow up: Kim Kardashian, 38, referred to her extraordinary transformation in a throwback Instagram post on Thursday. The photo was taken in 2008

Poll My how they have changed... but do the Kardashians look better then or now? 2008 2018 My how they have changed... but do the Kardashians look better then or now? 2008 471 votes

2018 230 votes Now share your opinion







The Urban Dictionary defines a 'glow up' as 'When you go from ugly to stunning.'

Kim's immodest feeling was not shared by sister Khloe, who commented on the post: 'I'm not liking this picture btw.'

The wife of Kanye West is seen with her trademark glossy locks in waves, with a flicked grown out fringe.

She's sporting a black sash around her neck, over a satin top and blue jeans.

The Keeping Up With The Kardashians star has transformed her image over recent years, thanks in part to husband Kanye West and make-up artist Mario Dedivanovic.

However, fans have questioned whether she has had surgical help, including a nose job, boob job and liposuction. She also appears to be a fan of Botox and fillers.

Of the picture, Kourtney remarked: 'I'll like it but oh wow the glow up'. (The photo seemingly put her in a nostalgic mood - she shared a few flashback photos of her own on Friday.)

Kim 2.0: The star has changed dramatically since 2008; her fashion is now under the influence of Kanye West and make-up artist Mario Dedivanovic takes the helm of her glam. There's also speculation she's had surgical help, including a nose job, boob job and liposuction

Kourtney's barely aged a day! The mother-of-three, who is very health conscious, still looks incredibly natural and youthful

My how she's changed! Khloe has probably had the most radical transformation over the years, after undergoing an intense exercise overhaul and bleaching her dark hair to blonde

She is stood between Kim and Khloe, and appears to have changed the least apart from changing her make-up.

The health-conscious mother-of-three, whom Kim recently cruelly described as 'the least interesting to look at', still looks incredibly natural and youthful.

Khloe has probably had the most radical transformation, after undergoing an intense exercise regime and bleaching her dark hair to blonde.

Feeling nostalgic? Kourtney shared a few throwback pictures of her own on Friday

Woah: She also posted an old Christmas snap that showed the sisters and a pal smothered in fake tan

She used to be known as the 'fat sister' when compared to her siblings but decided to focus on her health and fitness after she split from her husband Lamar Odom back in 2013.

Of course, Khloe and Kourtney's efforts to be glamorous and look great aren't always good enough for Kim.

She slammed her sisters' fashion as 'disgusting' and 'embarrassing' while on a recent trip to Japan to shoot a campaign for husband Kanye West's Yeezy label.

She wasn't impressed by their choice of outfits, branding them 'f***ing clowns' who needed to overhaul their images to stay 'young and relevant'.

The new vibe: The stars tried out edgy looks during a recent trip to Japan but Kim didn't approve of her sister's fashion choices, branding them 'disgusting' and 'embarrassing'

Much has changed for the three sisters since 2008 - Kim is now onto her third marriage and has three children with Kanye; North, five, Saint, two, and Chicago, 11 months.

Kourtney also has three children with her ex Scott Disick; Mason, eight, Penelope, five, and Reign, three.

Khloe has a daughter True with Tristan Thompson. She gave birth to her on April 12 this year, just days after she found out the NBA star had been unfaithful.

====== 116 ========

MONOPOLY REVEALS A BRAND-NEW SECOND EDITION GAME OF THRONE VERSION OF THE CLASSIC BOARD GAME

Makers of the all-time-classic board game Monopoly are releasing a brand new Game of Thrones edition, and it's the first ever Monopoly game to feature sound.

The second edition of the Game of Thrones-inspired game features a medieval-style speaker that plays the TV show's theme-tune as you compete with fellow players to nab first place.

An iron throne card holder, Game of Thrones currency, and properties as seen in the show itself are among the new features of the latest GOT edition.

A new addition: Hasbro's latest version of the all-time-classic Monopoly features a Game of Thrones inspired board

Winter is coming: The game, which will be retailing for $30, features a speaker that plays the TV show's theme tune and an iron throne card holder

The end of an era: Monopoly's GOT edition is being released in January ahead of the series' final season which airs in April 2019

Game of Thrones is an American fantasy drama series that follows nine noble families as they fight for control over the seven kingdoms of Westeros - the mythical continent in which the series is based.

The TV show is based on the fantasy novel series A Song of Fire and Ice, which was written by George R. R. Martin.

The series, which first premiered in 2011, has attracted a large fan base and has won various awards for its story lines and acting including 47 Primetime Emmy Awards and a Peabody Award.

The show also received five nominations for the Golden Globe Award for Best Television Series in the drama category.

Hasbro's new Game of Thrones Monopoly game is an amped-up version of the first edition, and includes a speaker stand that will play the fantasy TV show's theme tune, as well as an iron throne card holder to perfectly add to the theme.

'When you play a game of thrones you win or you die': The popular medieval fantasy series sees different families compete for reign over seven kingdoms

And in true Monopoly form, players will buy, sell and trade properties with the aim of becoming the richest player, and driving the others to bankruptcy.

However, this time, it isn't apartment buildings and hotels that are on the market.

Players will compete for castles and fortresses using Silver Stags and Gold Dragons - cardboard coinage based on the currency used in the show itself.

Competitors will make their way around the board using tokens modeled after the seven great houses of Westeros, including Stark of Winterfell, Tully of Riverrun and Arryn of the Eyrie.

Unfortunately for anyone looking to buy the game as a Christmas gift, the game won't be available until after the Holidays.

Monopoly: Game of Thrones will hit the shelves in January 2019, and will be sold for $30.

But if you're eager to get your hands on a Game of Thrones game while you wait for Monopoly: Game of Thrones to be released, you're in luck.

The first version of the game, also known as the collector's edition, is still available to buy through various retailers.

There are also several different GOT inspired board games available including A Game of Thrones: the board game, Risk Game of Thrones Strategy Board Game and Clue Game of Thrones Board Game.

Controversial: Monopoly for Millennials was released earlier this month. The game sees players buying experiences rather than properties because millennials 'can't afford it anyway'

Not impressed: Some people weren't happy with 'Monopoly for Millennials', saying that it is 'offensive' to the younger generation and their financial difficulties

Monopoly recently came under fire from social media users when the company released its 'millennial' edition of the game.

The Monopoly for Millennials tagline reads: 'Forget real estate, you can't afford it anyway'.

In contrast to the regular version of the game, the Millennial version sees players buying experiences including a three-day festival, dinner at a vegan restaurant and thrift-store shopping.

And people on Twitter weren't very happy about it. One Twitter user wrote: 'A game about millennial life should absolutely include paying rent. A lot of it. The vast majority of us can't afford to spend money on "experiences." Anyway, disappointed.'

Another tweeted: 'I think it's pretty offensive and uses stereotypes to make fun of millennials but I am a millennial so I'm probably too close to the issue.'

However, some people found the game entertaining and lighthearted.

One Twitter user said: 'So, I’m a #Millennial who can’t afford to save for a house or even rent somewhere because rent per month is more money than money I get per month and I’m single so no second income to help, but I also think #Monopolyformillennials is hilarious.'

However, despite coming under criticism as of late, Monopoly remains one of the most popular board games of all time.

Since it was first released in 1935, more than 250 million games have been sold, according to the Library of Congress.

The game has also been translated into a total of 37 languages and has been played by more than one billion people in the world.

====== 117 ========

ANGELINA JOLIE LOOKS ELEGANT AS SHE ARRIVES AT THE FIGHTING STIGMA THROUGH FILM FESTIVAL IN LONDON

She's been an avid philanthropist ever since she first witnessed the crisis in war-torn Cambodia while filming Lara Croft: Tomb Raider in 2001.

And Angelina Jolie continued her humanitarian work as she attended the Fighting Stigma Through Film festival at the BFI in London on Friday evening.

The actress, 43, was joined at the event by Sophie, Countess of Wessex, and the women looked to be deep in conversation as they spoke together at the event.

Goodwill ambassador: Angelina Jolie looks elegant as she joins Sophie, Countess of Wessex at the Fighting Stigma Through Film festival for the Preventing Sexual Violence In Conflict initiative

Angelina looked elegant as she arrived at the goodwill event wearing a chic white dress, which she had cinched at the waist with a statement belt.

The Maleficent star added a glamorous flair to her ensemble with a lace undershirt, while she boosted her height in silver heels, while earlier on she wrapped up in a black longline coat.

Her brunette locks were styled in a slicked back style which allowed her hair to fall in loose waves over her shoulders and frame her face well.

Angelina highlighted her pretty features by wearing a slick of bright red lipstick, black eyeliner and smokey eye shadow.

Chic: Angelina made a stunning entrance at the event as she wore an white midi-dress, which she had cinched at the waist with a statement belt

Regal: The royal looked demure in a navy blue coat, which she secured at the waist with a tightly knotted belt, and teamed up with a matching sleek shirt

Elegant: Sophie pulled her blonde locks back into a glamorous bun, while she brushed on a natural palette of make-up and accessorised with a pair of jewel earrings

Handsome: Angelina was also seen walking alongside fellow actor Chiwetel Ejiofor, 41, who looked dapper in a pair of denim jeans and a blue blazer, which he teamed up with a chequered shirt and grey scarf

The royal looked demure in a navy blue coat, which she secured at the waist with a tightly knotted belt, and teamed up with a matching sleek shirt.

Sophie pulled her blonde locks back into a glamorous bun, while she brushed on a natural palette of make-up and accessorised with a pair of jewel earrings.

Both women appeared to be in high spirits together, clearly getting on well as the Countess of Wessex patted her on the arm as they spoke with each other.

Angelina was seen walking alongside fellow actor Chiwetel Ejiofor, 41, who looked dapper in a pair of denim jeans and a blue blazer, which he teamed up with a chequered shirt and grey scarf.

While the actress was also spotted talking with Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs Jeremy Hunt, who spent much of the evening discussing the event alongside her.

Working together: While the actress was also spotted talking with Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs Jeremy Hunt

Talkative: Angelina could be seen talking with the politician during the event, who spent much of the evening alongside her

Giving a hand: Angelina and Jeremy were see clapping in the green room as they prepared for a Q&A at the launch event

Cosy: Earlier in the night, Angelina wrapped up in a black longline coat to keep off the winter chill

Beautiful: The actress looked happy as she arrived at the event and met with fans who waited for her outside the venue

Angelina is one of the key guests of the film festival, which aims to use the power of cinema to help fight and prevent discrimination faced by survivors of sexual violence in conflict.

The actress is also a co-founder of the Preventing Sexual Violence In Conflict initiative, which hosted the event.

38 films and documentaries will be screened over two days at the event, sharing the stories of survivors and inspiring others to work alongside them.

Leslie Thomas’ film The Prosecutors will have its world premiere at the festival, and other events include thought-provoking art installations, as well as organisations' showcases, and workshops led by prominent experts in the field.

Chic display: Angelina looked stunning as she left the film festival later that night

Stylish: The Maleficent star added a glamorous flair to her ensemble with a lace undershirt, while she boosted her height in silver heels

Important: Angelina is one of the key guests of the festival, which aims to use the power of cinema to help prevent discrimination faced by survivors of sexual violence in conflict

Special event: 38 films and documentaries will be screened over two days at the event, sharing the stories of survivors and inspiring others to work alongside them

To learn more: Other events include thought-provoking art installations, as well as organisations' showcases, and workshops led by prominent experts in the field

Angelina set up the Preventing Sexual Violence In Conflict initiative with William Hague in 2014, which has worked tirelessly to help those affected in countries like South Sudan and the Democratic Republic Of Congo.

Talking about the initiative on Friday, according to The Guardian Hague said to young filmmakers: 'We’ve made a tremendous start, but it’s only a start because as things stand, no member of Isil or Boko Haram or the armed forces of Burma has been brought to trial for crimes of sexual violence.'

The former foreign secretary added that it has been 'very difficult' to measure the success of the programme because of the scale of the problem, citing the 'tens of thousands of people raped in war in South Sudan'.

This is not the first humanitarian project the Malificent star has set up, as she opened a foundation, now called the Maddox Jolie-Pitt Foundation, in Cambodia in 2003.

The foundation acts as a conservation and community development program in the Samlout Protected Area.

Humanitarian: Angelina set up the Preventing Sexual Violence In Conflict initiative with William Hague in 2014, which has worked tirelessly to help those affected

Happy: Angelina seemed to be pleased with how the evening went as she left the film festival with a smile on her face

Good to see you: The actress turned director greeted fans who waited for her in the cold

Good sport: The actress made sure to make some time for her fans as she signed their memorabilia outside the venue

Keeping warm: Angelina walked out of the venue with her hands in her pockets as she stepped out into the cold night

Helping hand: This is not the first humanitarian project the Malificent star has set up, as she opened a foundation, now called the Maddox Jolie-Pitt Foundation, in Cambodia in 2003

Aims: The foundation acts as a conservation and community development program in the Samlout Protected Area

The UNHCR special envoy was also inspired by the country to make her Golden Globe nominated movie, First They Killed My Father.

Based on Cambodia human rights activist Luong Ung’s memoir, the film documents her experience as a young girl under the brutal rule of the Khmer Rouge.

Angelina spoke to Vanity Fair in 2017 about her first visit to the country, and said: 'I found a people who were so kind and warm and open, and, yes, very complex.

'You go there, and you see the families come out with their blanket and their picnic to watch a sunset,' she explained.

Angelina shares sons Maddox, 17, and Pax, 14, daughters Zahara, 13, and Shiloh, 12, and twins Knox and Vivienne, 10, with her ex-husband Brad Pitt.

Using film to make a change: The UNHCR special envoy was also inspired by the country to make her Golden Globe nominated movie, First They Killed My Father

Important message: Based on Cambodia human rights activist Luong Ung’s memoir, the film documents her experience as a young girl under the brutal rule of the Khmer Rouge

Doting mother: Angelina shares sons Maddox, 17, and Pax, 14, daughters Zahara, 13, and Shiloh, 12, and twins Knox and Vivienne, 10, with her ex-husband Brad Pitt

Friendly: Angelina waved goodbye to her fans as she left the event in a taxi after launching the event

Discussing the issue at hand: The actress attended a meeting at the Foreign Office with the Prime Minister's Special Envoy for Preventing Sexual Violence in Conflict, Lord Tariq Ahmad of Wimbledon

Stunning: Angelina looked glamorous in a blue midi dress and matching heels as she arrived at the Foreign Office

====== 118 ========

7TH HEAVEN STAR BEVERLEY MITCHELL REVEALS SHE MISCARRIED TWINS THIS YEAR IN HEARTBREAKING POST

Beverley Mitchell has revealed she suffered a miscarried of twins.

In a heartbreaking post on her blog Growing Up Hollywood, the 7th Heaven star described how she and husband Michael Cameron were delightfully surprised by the pregnancy news, only for their new dream to come crashing down.

'A few months back Michael and I were thrilled, we had just found out we were pregnant, and though we were surprised, we were excited,' she wrote on Friday. 'It didn’t take long before we began to prepare for a life filled with more little people in it.'

Mourning: Beverley Mitchell has revealed she and husband Michael Cameron suffered a miscarriage of twins earlier this year

'And much to our surprise, we came to find out it was twins! After our shock, came acceptance and excitement.'

But a few weeks later, she said their new dream of growing their family came crashing down: 'We had a miscarriage. This was a shock.'

The 37-year-old — who is already mom to five-year-old daughter Kenzie, and three-year-old son Hutton — revealed her first instinct was to say she was fine.

'And to be honest; I was trying to be. I thought I had to be, for my family, for myself. I had to jump on a plane and go to work being surrounded by babies and kids while I was still miscarrying. That was interesting.'

Family: The 37-year-old is already mom to five-year-old daughter Kenzie, and three-year-old son Hutton

She recalled how one of her best friends had told her during her first pregnancy that 'if the pregnancy is viable it will stick, if the baby (babies) are not viable they won’t.'

'Though this makes perfect sense and was something I even said when I shared the news of our pregnancy to our closest friends, this challenged me. Because though it made sense in my head, my heart could not make sense of it,' she admitted. 'I never really considered that I would miscarry being that I had already had two healthy pregnancies.

'This was my misconception, you see, I didn’t know much about miscarriages and I didn’t know many people who had miscarried, or so I thought.'

Highs and lows: In a heartbreaking post on her blog Growing Up Hollywood, the 7th Heaven star described how they were delightfully surprised by the pregnancy news, only for their new dream to come crashing down

But upon sharing her story, Beverley discovered many people around her 'shared the same scars'.

'I was now part of a group, the unspoken and hidden group who mourn their losses in the shadows,' she wrote. 'This was the hardest part, suffering in silence.

'Every time I shared what we were going through I made people uncomfortable, no one ever knows what to say, and to be honest, there is nothing to say.'

She said that most people who share such stories and looking for anything in return; just the opportunity to share.

Not alone: But upon sharing her story, Beverley discovered many people around her 'shared the same scars'

'It is with sharing it that the healing begins, the acceptance that it happened, it is when you ignore it or pretend that it never happened that you cause more pain,' she said. 'Dismissing it almost makes it worse.'

She went on to reveal that months had passed since the miscarriage, and that she had begun to heal, thanking her 'rock' of a husband and 'ride or die' friends for their help and support.

'It is crazy how quickly you can adopt the idea of a new life and how fast that can all go away,' she wrote.

'We still have dreams of growing our family but now more than ever, I look at Kenzie, Hutton, and Michael and just feel full,' she concluded. 'If we are blessed with more children they will fill us with more love, but for now, I look at my family and I am GRATEFUL, BLESSED, and THANKFUL.'

====== 119 ========

SELMA BLAIR FACES 'GRIM REALIZATION' MS IS WRESTING CONTROL OF HER BODY

Selma Blair spent Thanksgiving grieving for what she has lost.

In a heartbreaking post on Friday, the actress described the 'grim realization' that multiple sclerosis is wresting control of her body from her, and denying her the ability to do the simple things she took for granted — like a cartwheel for her seven-year-old son Arthur.

'I have been grieving recently. For the things I took for granted,' the 46-year-old wrote on Instagram. 'A cartwheel for my son being one.'

Grieving: In a heartbreaking post on Friday, Selma Blair described the 'grim realization' that multiple sclerosis is wresting control of her body from her

The actress claimed she was the most gymnastic mom she knew, and that a cartwheel was 'just as easy as taking a breath'.

'But when I began to turn one yesterday on an impulse to show my son who had forgotten, it went all wrong,' she described. 'A jumble of confusion for this body I knew so well. A heap. A heap on the ground.'

She said she tried to laugh, as did her son; but she knew it was a turning point, 'part of the grim realization'.

'Is this just #ms or Is this still an exacerbation ? Five months and still same way. Or is this my new normal? And then more gets taken away.'

Ill: The actress shared her diagnosis on Instagram last month, having received the grim news just two months earlier

Struggle: She described how the disease is denying her the ability to do the simple things she took for granted — like a cartwheel for her seven-year-old son Arthur (pictured September 2)

Elsewhere in the post, the Cruel Intentions star revealed she had stayed at home for Thanksgiving watching Griffin Dunne's Netflix documentary on author Joan Didion — The center Will Not Hold — upon which she poured praise.

'As Joan has written. The center will not hold,' she continued. 'And as I write... neither will the rest of it.

'So I thank you all for propping me up. We all have something. Now how do we handle it? What do we do when the news is old but dramatically altering our lives every day? Still grateful,' she concluded.

Selma also continued to mourn the loss of Carrie Fisher 'because I just miss her every day. Knowing she could be there.'

Fit: The actress claimed she was the most gymnastic mom she knew, and that a cartwheel was 'just as easy as taking a breath' (pictured 2012, six years before her diagnosis)

On October 20, Selma shared her diagnosis on Instagram, having received the grim news just two months earlier.

'I have multiple sclerosis' I am disabled. I fall sometimes. I drop things. My memory is foggy. And my left side is asking for directions from a broken GPS,' she said at the time.

'But we are doing it. And I laugh and I don’t know exactly what I will do precisely, but I will do my best.'

MS is a disease of the nervous system that disrupts communication between the brain and body; there is no known cure.

====== 120 ========

ARIANA GRANDE IS UNVEILED AS MEAN GIRLS VILLAIN REGINA GEORGE IN NEW THANK U, NEXT PHOTOS

Ariana Grande channeled Mean Girls villain Regina George as she continued to tease her upcoming Thank U, Next music video on Friday.

The singer, 25, was unveiled as the queen bee in a series of new photos posted to her Instagram account.

Laying beside her Burn Book on her bed, Ariana wore a head full of long blonde hair and a custom initial necklace in the style of Regina.

That's so fetch! Ariana Grande channeled queen bee Regina George as she paid homage to Mean Girls as part of her Thank U, Next music video

Ariana has revealed she will be including elements of her favorite films Mean Girls, Bring It On, Legally Blonde, and 13 Going On 30.

And the singer has really gone all out to recreate the classic films.

From her French tip manicure to her glossy makeup, Ariana brought Regina to life in stills from her upcoming music video.

Even her Burn Book was decorated in the style of the film's original.

Queen bee: From her French tip manicure to her glossy makeup, Ariana brought Regina to life in stills from her upcoming music video

Burn baby burn: Grande held up her own personalized version of the Burn Book

The pink book had a lip print kissed onto the cover and read 'Thank U, Next' in letters cut out from magazines.

She also had doodled a design along the edges of the book, in similar fashion to the original.

In a departure from the film's mean-spirited Burn Book, Ariana hinted this one would be positive.

Teen spirit: Rachel McAdams played ringleader Regina George in the hit 2004 film Mean Girls

The singer suggested this by re-tweeting a fan who remarked, 'a burn book but not a book about being mean but being thankful.'

She also revealed her ex-boyfriend Mac Miller would not be featured in the book but would instead appear beside her bed.

Buzzfeed theorized the late rapper may be featured in a photograph.

'M ain't in the book he next to my bed,' she said.

Plot twist: The singer hinted at this as she tweeted a heart emoji after a devoted fan remarked, 'a burn book but not a book about being mean but being thankful'

Revelation: She also revealed her ex-boyfriend Mac Miller will not be featured in the book, but may be a photo fixture beside her bed, Buzzfeed speculated

Ariana has been teasing the release of her new video by posting photos of herself dressed in character from her favorite films.

The singer has yet to reveal when the video will be released.

It's been two weeks since Ariana's song Thank U, Next was released, but already the track has reached platinum success.

Bringing the drama: Regina was the most popular girl of her high school in Mean Girls

====== 121 ========

ROYAL FANS GUSH OVER ‘DAZZLING’ PRINCESS EUGENIE AT STREET CHILD LAUNCH

She has been keeping a low profile since her wedding last month, but Princess Eugenie made a glamorous return last night at a star-studded charity bash.

The newlywed royal wowed in a figure-hugging Roksanda gown for the Street Child event on Kensington Palace on Thursday evening - and her slinky appearance did not go unnoticed by fans.

Social media users have gone wild over a snap of the 28-year-old princess with businesswoman Petronella West after it surfaced on Twitter and was later circulated on Instagram.

Eugenie, 29, wore an inky blue 'Aviden' dress from trendy London label Roksanda featuring scallop strap detail and a daring slit at the back of the skirt.

Scroll down for video

'Married life suits her!' Social media users have gone wild over this snap of Princess Eugenie with businesswoman Petronella West after it surfaced on Twitter this week (the pair are pictured at the Street Child event on Kensington Palace on Thursday evening)

The new snap of Princess Eugenie is has racked up dozens of comments on Instagram, with one person writing: 'She looks lovely! The marriage suits her [well]'

Petronella West is the CEO of InvestmentQuorum Wealth, one of the sponsors of Street Child's tenth birthday bash and the launch of its Count Me In campaign.

She wrote: 'Thrilled to meet #princesseugenie at @streetchilduk's 10th birthday celebration at #kensingtonpalace .. what an amazing evening.'

Once known for her outlandish fashion choices, Eugenie has been praised for her more discerning sartorial choices of late.

Her wardrobe makeover is believed to be the handiwork of long-term stylist, Sarah Price who helped the royal realise her vision of looking like a 'contemporary princess' as she tied the knot with Jack Brooksbank on October 12.

Insiders told FEMAIL that Sarah, who is originally from Dublin and runs the company Style Tonic, has been working with Eugenie for two-and-a-half years, after being introduced by a mutual friend.

Another snap from last night's event shows Eugenie with a male companion, throwing a black cropped jacket on over her Roksanda dress which she teamed with a black clutch bag

The Queen's granddaughter, who works as an art gallery director alongside royal engagements, also appears to have slimmed down ahead of her nuptials, putting in some hard graft at women-only gym Grace Belgravia.

'I go to the park from 7 to 8. I do circuits, which I love because they're quick: burpees, squat jumps, lunges, the whole lot,' she told Harper's Bazaar earlier this year.

Personal trainer Chris Wharton told Femail that the royal appeared to have taken a slow and steady approach to her transformation rather than crash dieting and used 'a mixture of strength training and high intensity interval training to gain full body strength and tone.'

The princess was also said to have overhauled her diet, introducing foods that release sugar over a long period such as broccoli.

====== 122 ========

KENDALL JENNER SHARES BIKINI THROWBACK AS SHE COMPARES HERSELF TO SISTERS

Kourtney, Khloe, Kylie, and Kim Kardashian all celebrated Thanksgiving by posting photos of their little ones.

But Kendall Jenner did things a little differently.

On the morning after Thanksgiving, the model, 23, posted a throwback bikini snap as she remarked in the caption, 'all my siblings posting their babies and sh*t and i'm just like...'

'I'm just like...': Kendall Jenner took a different approach than her sisters as she posted a lazy throwback of herself soaking up the sun in a bikini

In the snap, the catwalk queen lounged lazily by the pool in a tiny blue string bikini during her recent getaway to Palms Springs.

Indeed, Kendall's sisters had all posted snaps of their children onto Instagram as they marked the special holiday.

Khloe Kardashian celebrated her daughter True's first Thanksgiving in Cleveland, Ohio with her boyfriend, Tristan Thompson, and couldn't resist documenting the milestone on Instagram.

She posted a snap of herself gazing adoringly at her daughter, who stood on her dining seat.

The apple of her eye! Khloe Kardashian celebrated her daughter True's first Thanksgiving in Cleveland with her boyfriend, Tristan Thompson, and couldn't resist documenting the milestone on Instagram

Family first: Kourtney Kardashian marked the special holiday by posing with her ex Scott Disick and their three children

Mama mia: Kendall Jenner celebrated Stormi's first Thanksgiving by posting a few sweet family photos

Kourtney gushed about spending quality time with her family as she posted a photo of herself with ex Scott Disick and their three children, Mason, Penelope, and Reign.

'I woke up this morning in bed with my children, in the same house as my sisters (minus @khloekardashian (crying emojis) i miss you), my brothers, the father of my kids, my mommy, my grandma, my nieces and nephew. I feel beyond grateful. Happy Thanksgiving!'

Kylie wished her fans a happy Thanksgiving as she posted several sweet snaps of her daughter Stormi.

Kim also heavily documented the family's feast on Instagram, and posted a few sweet images of her children playing around with their cousins.

She also shared a precious snap of Saint holding his father Kanye West's wrist.

====== 123 ========

DWAYNE JOHNSON RENTS SURREY HOME AS BRAD AND ANGELINA AS HE RELOCATES FOR FAST AND THE FURIOUS

Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson has made a superstar arrival in the UK as he is said to be renting the same Richmond home where Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie reportedly stayed in 2016.

The 46-year-old former wrestler is well-known for his incredibly ripped physique and workout regime, so brought reinforcements in the form of his 'Iron Paradise' - the travel gym he brings on any location, complete with 40,000lbs of equipment, a full kitchen, no mirrors and hundreds of aides on hand to help set-up.

Seemingly confirming his move, the hardman took to Instagram to share a snap as he posed on horseback outside the palatial home, while also revealing the horse in question had starred in Gladiator and Robin Hood.

Plush: Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson has made a superstar arrival in the UK as he is said to be renting the same home in Richmond where Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie reportedly stayed in 2016

Work it on out: New images show the digs for the actor, with the sprawling estate undoubtedly the perfect set-up for the hunky star, as he celebrated Thanksgiving away from his native country

The stunning home, which has previously seen guests including Elton John and Fergie, is said to feature eight bedrooms, eight bathrooms, a garden gazebo, indoor swimming pool and a playground.

New images show the digs for the actor, with the sprawling estate undoubtedly the perfect set-up for the hunky star, as he celebrated Thanksgiving away from his native country.

In his incredible Instagram post to announce his arrival, the dashing actor posed horseback while adding the caption: 'Good Thanksgiving hang with Rusty at the crib here in London. This ol’ boy’s a genuine star as he was Russell Crowe’s horse in one of my favorite films, GLADIATOR as well as ROBIN HOOD...

Wow! The 46-year-old former wrestler is well-known for his incredibly ripped physique and workout regime, so brought reinforcements in the form of his 'Iron Paradise' - the travel gym he brings on any location, complete with 40,000lbs of equipment, a full kitchen, no mirrors and hundreds of aides on hand to help set-up

Hard work! The actor has revealed the sheer extent of work it takes to set up The Iron Paradise

'Rusty’s clearly happy when Russell is on his back, because I heard that unmistakeable horse groan of “Holyyyy shit please don’t get on me” when 6’5 265lbs of tattooed sunshine saddled up on him. Thankful to Rusty and his pal, Rosey for coming to the crib today for some Thanksgiving ridin’ w/ the ohana.'

But while not being in his home nation for Thanksgiving, the actor was sure to celebrate the holiday in the traditional way, as he posted a picture to his Instagram of a huge cooked Turkey, alongside the caption: 'This Thanksgiving was a unique one, in that it was the first time I’ve ever not been back home in the U.S. of A.

'But here in London, we still cooked and laid out a big, sweet spread to give our thanks and boundless gratitude for our loved ones. The weird thing - is every Thanksgiving I gotta take a moment to remember exactly 27 years ago on Thanksgiving while living in Tampa, Fl we were so p*** broke, that we couldn’t even afford to buy a turkey, so we were praying someone would invite us over for Thanksgiving.

Yummy! But while not being in his home nation for Thanksgiving, the actor was sure to celebrate the holiday in the traditional way, as he posted a picture to his Instagram of a huge cooked Turkey

He added: 'Well, the universe answered our prayers, because friends of ours called to say Happy Thanksgiving and we were like, “HAPPY THANKSGIVING WE’LL BE RIGHT OVER TO CELEBRATE WITH YOU GUYS K BYE!!” They were like, “Uhhh okaaaay great, see you soon?” A Very true and f****** embarrassing story.

'I’m weird this way, but remembering s***like this helps me live a better and more grateful life. I’m quite sure I need therapy for this, but until then tequila will be my loving & empathetic therapist.'

And wanting to draw his celebrations to a close in style, the Rock visited the West End, writing: 'To close out our Thanksgiving, @laurenhashianofficial took me to see @hamiltonmusical here in London.

'She had seen it multiple times and this was my FIRST TIME (I know, but I’m a very busy dude;) seeing this extraordinary and iconoclastic piece of art. After the show, we went backstage to meet this crazy talented and passionate cast.

Cast and crew: And wanting to draw his celebrations to a close in style, the Rock visited the West End, writing: 'To close out our Thanksgiving, @laurenhashianofficial took me to see @hamiltonmusical here in London'

Way back when: Prior to their tragic split, Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie (pictured in 2015) are said to have rented out the same house in Surrey according to wide spread reports - paying $24,000 a month to stay there

'Big shout to my brother Lin Manuel Miranda for creating this whole thing and for inspiring me on yet another level. And to the HAMILTON cast members worldwide, THANK YOU for sharing your passions and above all else/ I’m scrappy and hungry and I am not throwing away my shot. Ever. Love y’all and thank ya for being so cool and gracious.'

In November, while on location in Vancouver, Dwayne shared a touching Instagram post as he thanked his team for their assistance with The Iron Paradise: 'Sending a huge thank you to the hundreds of hard working crew responsible for always setting up my Iron Paradise aka my traveling carnival in every location I film at...

'40,000lbs of steal and iron. I can maintain and build upon an insane work schedule, but only due to having my anchor ready to go every morning at 5am. Grateful to the bone. Thank you guys. [sic]'

That's why he's The Rock! Heavy machinery was on-hand to tote the materials in and out of the grounds and make sure he maintained his shape

Happy days: '40,000lbs of steal and iron. I can maintain and build upon an insane work schedule, but only due to having my anchor ready to go every morning at 5am. Grateful to the bone. Thank you guys'

Stunning: Aside from the gym, the location is breathtaking and most certainly superstar worthy

Last month, Dwayne celebrated his first week of shooting the highly-anticipated Fast & Furious spin-off Hobbs & Shaw by unveiling a first look photo. The image, which he posted to Instagram, features both of the title characters, Johnson's Luke Hobbs and Jason Statham's Deckard Shaw.

While Statham was spotted filming scenes for the spin-off in September, The Rock finished his first week on the set in October. 'We either gonna get along or we gonna get it on,' Johnson, 46, said in his post. 'F**k getting along,' he added, along with the devil emoji.

'Great first week of shooting our Fast & Furious spin-off, “HOBBS & SHAW” with my ace @JasonStatham,' the Skyscraper star said. 'We’re havin’ a blast disrupting the norm to deliver something fresh, cool, fun and bad ass for the fans,' he concluded, including the hashtags #TheOutlawLawman, #TheInternationalSpy, #HobbsAndShaw.

New neighbour in town! The huge lorries descended onto the estate to help set up his home gym and keep his frame as ripped as ever

Sprawling: The grounds were put to good use as the tent was set up with all the modern additions of any fitness emporium

Always on-brand: He decorated the temporary gym with both logos celebrating the gym and also a poster for the movie

The action superstar also tagged the Universal Pictures Instagram along with the spin-off's director, David Leitch, while giving photo credit to his Seven Bucks Productions producing partner Hiram Garcia.

Very little is known about the story at this point, except that it will featuring the unlikely duo of U.S. Diplomatic Security agent Luke Hobbs and notorious criminal Deckard Shaw.

There is no love lost between Hobbs and Shaw, who were part of a massive prison brawl in 2017's The Fate of the Furious, although why they are teaming up in this spin-off is currently unclear.

Happy days: He made himself truly at home with the arrival of his much-loved and very well-used equipment

All hands on deck: His team worked extremely hard to perfect the gym which travels with him all over the world

Pumping iron: The ripped star pumped iron in front of his two-year-old daughter Jasmine

Johnson and Statham, 51, lead a cast that also includes Idris Elba as the new villain, along with Vanessa Kirby, who Variety reported in July is playing Deckard Shaw's sister, an MI-5 agent.

Helen Mirren played Deckard Shaw's mother in The Fate of the Furious, with Statham telling Collider in August that Mirren will return in Hobbs & Shaw.

'We’re trying to do something that isn’t so goofy though,' Statham said. 'I know the last time she slapped me around the face and we got this little … We don’t want to take it too seriously.'

====== 124 ========

TEKASHI69 APPEARS TO ORDER HIT ON CHIEF KEEF'S COUSIN DAYS BEFORE CHICAGO RAPPER ESCAPED NYC GUNFIRE

A shocking video indicates that Tekashi 6ix9ine ordered a $30,000 hit on Chief Keef's cousin just days before the Chicago rapper escaped gunfire from hisNew York City hotel.

6ix9ine, whose real name is Daniel Hernandez, is seen in footage arguing on FaceTime with the Keef's cousin and musical artist Tadoe.

Chief Keef and 6ix9ine had beefed throughout the year and the late May video was filmed just days before the Chicago rapper was shot at the W Hotel in Times Square, TMZ reports.

6ix9ine (left), whose real name is Daniel Hernandez, is seen in footage arguing on FaceTime with Keef's cousin and musical artist Tadoe (right)

In the clip, the controversial New York rapper can be heard repeatedly asking Tadoe if he has done something to somebody recently.

Tadoe exchanges jabs at 6ix9ine but it mostly inaudible as the rapper talks over him.

Chief Keef and 6ix9ine had beefed throughout the year and the late May video was filmed just days before the Chicago rapper was shot at while at the W Hotel

'Who was the last person you shot,' 6ix9ine then asks.

While it is unknown what Tadoe responded, it wasn't enough to convince 6ix9ine who instructed the musician to go back to his city.

'You not hot n***a you ain't sell no records,' said 6ix9ine.

6ix9ine informs Tadoe that he is 'good' in his city and asks when recently has something happened to him. He would be kidnapped just two months later in New York City.

As the two continue arguing, 6ix9ine keeps bragging about his successes while claiming that Tadoe will not have any.

'When you got a show in New York because that sh*t is not selling out,' he added.

Soon the tone takes a sharper turn as 6ix9ine begins asking for Tadoe's exact whereabouts. He eventually tells the musician not to worry about the location because he is 'just going to get' the address and not to 'worry about it.'

He asks if he is staying at Sosa (Keef's other name) hotel before hanging up on Tadoe

After getting off FaceTime, 6ix9ine tells his friends that he has a '30 pack' out on Tadoe

After their conversation ends, 6ix9ine tells his friends: 'I got a 30 pack on him right now.'

He later clarifies that he is talking about money.

Back on June 3, TMZ asked 6ix9ine about his involvement in the New York shooting and the rapper denied any involvement.

He is currently sitting with neutral inmates at a federal facility for a variety of charges including racketeering and suspected gang activity.

====== 125 ========

JUSTIN BIEBER SHOVES WIFE HAILEY BALDWIN'S FACE INTO BIRTHDAY CAKE

She recently married Justin Bieber.

And despite what the old proverb says, Hailey Baldwin was able to have her cake and eat it too.

The model celebrated her 22nd birthday on Thursday as her new husband, 24, jokingly smashed the cake in her face.

Having her cake: Hailey Baldwin celebrated her 22nd birthday on Thursday as her new husband Justin BIeber, 24, jokingly smashed the cake in her face

Adorable: It was all in good fun as the happy newly-married couple shared a cake while Hailey still had icing on her face

It was all in good fun as the happy newly-married couple shared a kiss while Hailey still had icing on her face.

Things seem to be going swimmingly with the pair as Justin's mother seemingly more than approves of new daughter in-law.

On Friday Justin reflected on his 'first Thanksgiving as a married man' on Instagram as he posted a scenic photo.

Thought-provoking: Justin took to Instagram on Friday to reflect on spending the holiday with new wife Hailey and family

As the Canadian crooner is a devout Christian, he said that 'relationships are hard' but God has helped guide him through it.

He wrote: 'Happy late thanksgiving to everyone. First thanksgiving as a married man, first time hosting thanksgiving. First time both sides of the family has come together.

'Relationships are hard and love isn’t always easy but thank you Jesus for showing me how! Every day is a learning process, trying to be more like him, patient, kind, selfless, boy I got a long way! But gods grace is sufficient !'

Hailey was definitely feeling the love as she also shared pictures from the celebration including one of the newly-married couple sharing a kiss.

Loved up: Hailey was definitely feeling the love as she also shared pictures from her birthday party/ Thanksgiving celebration with family including one of the happy couple kissing

Sweet: The adorable photos came after Bieber jokingly smashed the cake in her face

Pattie Mallette, 43, wished her son's new wife a happy 22nd birthday in an sweet message and photos on Thursday.

“HAPPY BIRTHDAY @haileybaldwin !! I LOVE YOU!! I’m SO #THANKFUL to have you as a daughter!!!” Mallette shared on Twitter.

Justin's mom also got to spend some quality time with Hailey on her birthday, and she shared some of the festive and loving moments on her Insta-Story.

In one adorable picture, the new Mrs. Justin Bieber can be seen giving her new mother-in-law a kiss on the cheek.

Family matters: Pattie Mallette, 43, wished her son's new wife a happy 22nd birthday in an sweet message and photos on Thursday

Family unity: Pattie sent this sweet message to Hailey on Twitter

Momma bear: The singer's mother shared photos and video of Hailey's birthday bash

Happy 22: Afterwards, Justin presented his wife her actual birthday cake

Home sweet home: Justin was also photographed cuddling with his mom and other family members during the festive party

The birthday wishes come about a week after the model changed her Instagram handle to @HaileyBieber, as well as in her bio to read, Hailey Rhode Bieber.

It also came about two months after Justin and Hailey tied-the-knot in a secret ceremony at a New York courthouse in September.

News of the nuptials set off a media frenzy with fans, critics and casual pop culture trolls.

Hailey has also received a number of birthday wishes that were posted on her Insta-Story

All the seemingly endless chatter even prompted the Bieb's mom to speak out on social media. One day after the couple reportedly got hitched, Mallette tweeted out: 'Love is unconditional.'

Adding more fuel to the marriage rumors at the time, the pop star's mom wrote, 'Haters gonna hate. #Love Wins' the very next day.

The Love Yourself singer recently confirmed their marital status when he captioned: 'My wife is awesome,' in a photo of the couple smiling and holding hands.

The 24-year old star proposed to Hailey with a custom oval engagement ring on July 7 while the couple were in the Bahamas, according to People.

Back in the day: Earlier this year Mallette shared a photo of her with her son when he was in his eighth grade

Confirmation: The Love Yourself singer recently confirmed his marital status when he captioned: 'My wife is awesome,' in this picture a week ago

====== 126 ========

CHRIS MARTIN IN HILARIOUS AUDITION CLIP AS HE ASKS TO JOIN HIS 'FAVOURITE BOYBAND' TAKE THAT

He’s part of one of the the world's biggest bands, Coldplay.

Yet Chris Martin has begged to join his ‘favourite boyband’ Take That in a hilarious audition video in celebration of the group's 30th anniversary tour next year.

The Scientist hitmaker, 41, shared an amusing clip of himself auditioning for a place in the band, paying homage to the group's scanty outfits in the video for 1992 debut single Do What You Like by donning a leather waistcoat.

Please! Chris Martin has begged to join his ‘favourite boyband’ Take That in a hilarious audition video in celebration of the group's 30th anniversary tour next year

Chris showed off his hunky physique in a tight pair of black cycling shorts, along with a matching bow tie, as he pranced around his garden singing the popular tune.

The father-of-two energetically leaped into frame before mimicking the dance moves from the much loves 90s video.

After showcasing his stylish dance skills, the Brit Award-winner finally noticed the camera: ‘Oh hi. It’s Chris,’ the singer explains.

Copycat: The Scientist hitmaker, 41, shared an amusing clip of himself auditioning for a place in the band, paying homage to the group's scanty outfits in the video for 1992 debut single Do What You Like by donning a leather waistcoat

'Favourite band': Chris showed off his hunky physique in a tight pair of black cycling shorts, along with a matching bow tie, as he pranced around his garden singing the popular tune

Having an absolute ball: The father-of-two energetically leaped into frame before mimicking the dance moves from the much loves 90s video

‘Thirty years on and I’m still auditioning and I’m waiting to hear from my favourite boyband of all time, Take That.’

Chris continued to delight fans by adding some of the band’s hit tunes into his speech: ‘They never call me, but I’m never gonna give up! I’ll be back for good, because I pray that you’ll want me in your band some day.’

Pop princess Kylie Minogue also showed her support for Gary Barlow, Howard Donald and Mark Owen on the day of their Odyssey album release on Friday.

Famous faces! Pop princess Kylie Minogue also showed her support for Gary Barlow, Howard Donald and Mark Owen on the day of their Odyssey album release on Friday

Reunited: Meanwhile, Robbie Williams will reunite with Take That for a special one-off performance for the X Factor final next Sunday (pictured in 1991)

In a clip shared on the band’s social media, the sensational songstress said: ‘It was a very wise man who once said, no I was five wise men who once said…’

The blonde bombshell then breaks into the group’s song: ‘It only takes a minute girl, to fall in love, to fall in love.

‘Didn’t take a minute, it took a hot second. Love you guys,’ Kylie added.

To mark their 30th anniversary next year, the three members have released their greatest hits album and a UK tour.

Celebrations: To mark their 30th anniversary next year, the three members (Gary Barlow, Howard Donald and Mark Owen) have released their greatest hits album and a UK tour

Meanwhile, Robbie Williams is said to be reuniting with the group for a special one-off performance for the X Factor final next Sunday.

It was revealed on ITV's Lorraine on Friday, that the Angels hitmaker, 44, will join former his bandmates during the show on December 2, ahead of their 30th anniversary celebrations.

While the judge was first to leave the band in July 1995, Jason Orange was the next departure when he quit the group in September 2014, yet he will not perform during the X Factor reunion.

Back for good? Robbie last performed with Take That last year during the final of Let It Shine last year

On stage: Gary, Howard and Mark will be travelling across the UK without Robbie and Jason in a follow up to their 2017 Wonderland tour (Take That pictured in 1992)

Dan Wooton revealed on Lorraine: 'It would be totally wrong for Take That to perform as a trio with Robbie in the audience'.

Robbie performed with Take That last year during the final of Let It Shine, a BBC talent show to find five contestants to join the cast of a new West End show featuring the music of the band.

The news comes a month after the Take That tour dates for 2019 were announced for the group's Greatest Hits Live event in celebration of their 30th anniversary, with Rick Astley also being confirmed as their special guest for their UK-wide tour.

Gary, Howard and Mark will be travelling across the UK without Robbie and Jason in a follow up to their 2017 Wonderland tour, with US and Middle East dates still rumoured to be added.

====== 127 ========

FLOYD MAYWEATHER SPENDS $5.3MILLION ON JEWELRY IN SHOPPING TRIP TO A SINGLE STORE IN BEVERLY HILLS

He has never been shy about flaunting his wealth.

And Floyd Mayweather picked himself up a few more pieces to help do that after dropping more than $5million in a single shopping trip.

The boxing champ spent all the money last week at one store in Beverly Hills: Peter Marco.

Money: Floyd Mayweather spent $5.3million on jewelry in one shopping trip to a single store in Beverly Hills last week

There he bought six items, TMZ reported, including a diamond bracelet worth a whopping $2.5million.

He also purchased a 30-carat pear-shaped yellow VVS ring for $2.3million.

Another 2lb yellow gold Cuban necklace as well as three watches with a combined total worth of $500k brought his tally to an eye-watering $5.3million.

The hefty bill is of course just loose change to the undefeated pugilist, who is believed to be worth as much as $1billion.

Pressie: For his birthday in February he bought himself a private jet, his third

The Billionaire Watch: During the summer he bought a watch embedded with 239 diamonds with a price tag of $18million

During the summer he bought a watch embedded with 239 diamonds with a price tag of $18million; for his birthday in February he bought himself a private jet, his third.

Just last month, when the MegaMillions jackpot swelled to $1billion, the 41-year-old was spotted leaving a gas station in Beverly Hills with $2,000 worth of lottery tickets.

Unsurprisingly Mayweather topped the annual Forbes list of wealthiest celebrities this summer, earning an estimated $285 million alone from his 2017 fight with UFC star Conor McGregor.

The boxer beat out George Clooney, who earned $239 million after his tequila company Casamigos was bought by liquor giant Diageo for $700 million.

The top 5 was rounded out by Kylie Jenner ($165 million), Judge Judy Scheindlin ($147 million) and Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson ($124 million).

====== 128 ========

JUSTIN BIEBER REFLECTS ON 'FIRST THANKSGIVING AS A MARRIED MAN' TO HAILEY BALDWIN

Justin Bieber opened up about his 'first Thanksgiving as a married man' in a contemplative post.

The 24-year-old pop star took to Instagram on Friday to reflect on spending the holiday with new wife Hailey Baldwin and family.

Justin shared a beautiful scenery photo including several trees and snow on the ground along with a lengthy thought-provoking caption.

Thought-provoking: Justin Bieber took to Instagram on Friday to reflect on spending the holiday with new wife Hailey Baldwin and family

Loved up: Hailey was definitely feeling the love as she also shared pictures from her birthday party/ Thanksgiving celebration with family including one of the happy couple kissing

As the Canadian crooner is a devout Christian, he said that 'relationships are hard' but God has helped guide him through it.

He wrote: 'Happy late thanksgiving to everyone. First thanksgiving as a married man, first time hosting thanksgiving. First time both sides of the family has come together.

The gathering of the two families also served as a 22nd birthday party for the model.

Justin continued: 'Relationships are hard and love isn’t always easy but thank you Jesus for showing me how! Every day is a learning process, trying to be more like him, patient, kind, selfless, boy I got a long way! But gods grace is sufficient !'

Sweet: The adorable photos came after Bieber jokingly smashed the cake in her face

Having her cake: Justin's mother Pattie Mallette shared a cute video to her Instagram Story of Justin smashing the cake in new daughter-in-law Hailey's face

Adorable: It was all in good fun as the happy newly-married couple shared a kiss while Hailey still had icing on her face

Hailey was definitely feeling the love as she also shared pictures from the celebration including one of the newly-married couple sharing a kiss.

The adorable photos came after Bieber jokingly smashed the cake in her face.

Things seem to be going swimmingly with the pair as Justin's mother seemingly more than approves of new daughter in-law.

Pattie Mallette, 43, wished her son's new wife a happy 22nd birthday in an sweet message and photos on Thursday.

Family matters: Pattie Mallette, 43, wished her son's new wife a happy 22nd birthday in an sweet message and photos on Thursday

Family unity: Pattie sent this sweet message to Hailey on Twitter

“HAPPY BIRTHDAY @haileybaldwin !! I LOVE YOU!! I’m SO #THANKFUL to have you as a daughter!!!” Mallette shared on Twitter.

Justin's mom also got to spend some quality time with Hailey on her birthday, and she shared some of the festive and loving moments on her Insta-Story.

In one adorable picture, the new Mrs. Justin Bieber can be seen giving her new mother-in-law a kiss on the cheek.

Momma bear: The singer's mother shared photos and video of Hailey's birthday bash

Happy 22: Afterwards, Justin presented his wife her actual birthday cake

Home sweet home: Justin was also photographed cuddling with his mom and other family members during the festive party

The birthday wishes come about a week after the model changed her Instagram handle to @HaileyBieber, as well as in her bio to read, Hailey Rhode Bieber.

It also came about two months after Justin and Hailey tied-the-knot in a secret ceremony at a New York courthouse in September.

News of the nuptials set off a media frenzy with fans, critics and casual pop culture trolls.

Hailey has also received a number of birthday wishes that were posted on her Insta-Story

All the seemingly endless chatter even prompted the Bieb's mom to speak out on social media. One day after the couple reportedly got hitched, Mallette tweeted out: 'Love is unconditional.'

Adding more fuel to the marriage rumors at the time, the pop star's mom wrote, 'Haters gonna hate. #Love Wins' the very next day.

The Love Yourself singer recently confirmed their marital status when he captioned: 'My wife is awesome,' in a photo of the couple smiling and holding hands.

The 24-year old star proposed to Hailey with a custom oval engagement ring on July 7 while the couple were in the Bahamas, according to People.

Back in the day: Earlier this year Mallette shared a photo of her with her son when he was in his eighth grade

Confirmation: The Love Yourself singer recently confirmed his marital status when he captioned: 'My wife is awesome,' in this picture a week ago

====== 129 ========

TESS HOLLIDAY SHARES LINGERIE SELFIE AFTER CALLING THANKSGIVING A 'BULLS**T' HOLIDAY

Tess Holliday may have eaten Thanksgiving dinner with her family and friends on Thursday, but she has made it clear that she doesn't support the 'bulls**t holiday.'

The 33-year-old plus-size model was in Las Vegas when she took to Instagram share a racy lingerie selfie with her 1.7 million followers before opening up about her refusal to honor Thanksgiving.

'I think Thanksgiving is a bulls**t holiday, but it's nice to be surrounded by family and friends and to reflect why you are thankful,' she wrote on Instagram Stories. 'I'm just not going to support a holiday that celebrates the slaughter of native folks.'

Scroll down for video

Strike a pose: Tess Holliday kicked off Thanksgiving by sharing a sexy selfie on Instagram the night before the holiday

Revelation: The 33-year-old explained on Instagram Stories that she doesn't support Thanksgiving because it 'celebrates the slaughter of native folks'

Opinions: The plus-size model later shared screengrabs of two very different direct messages she received in response to her post criticizing the national holiday

Although she refused to celebrate the holiday, she made it clear that she has no problem showing gratitude.

'So yeah, I'm thankful for my followers, family, friends, etc,' she wrote in a second post.

An hour later, Tess returned to Instagram Stories to share a screengrab of the direct message a woman named Anne sent her in response to her post.

'Thanksgiving is not about slaughtering natives,' the woman wrote. 'It's celebrating how two groups of very different people, natives and immigrants, worked together and then celebrated the fruits of their labor.

'It's a day to be grateful and thankful and happy for the good things in your life. I am as liberal as they come. We don't need to attack Thanksgiving. Why does everything have to be negative?' she asked.

On holiday: Tess spent Thanksgiving with her friends in Las Vegas, where she road and ATV and had a turkey dinner with all the fixings

Tess couldn't resist writing a sarcastic, 'Oh, okay,' before sharing Anne's message.

Another person DMed Tess to hit back at Anne's response, writing: 'I hope you told Anne those "immigrants" slaughtered that native tribe after dinner.'

When Tess posted the person's criticism of Anne's message, she added a GIF that flashed 'claps 4 u' across the screen.

Tess spent the holiday with her friends in Vegas, and she shared videos of the night, which included a Thanksgiving feast and a joyride in an ATV.

Although she doesn't support Thanksgiving, she was happy to celebrate her friends Jolene Frances and Joe Robinson's birthdays on Thursday.

Fun times: They celebrated two of their friends' birthdays during the Thanksgiving gathering

Feminist: Tess donned a black crop top that had 'Women's World' splashed across the front

Of course, Tess isn't the only celebrity who has spoken out against the celebration of Thanksgiving.

Cher revealed on Twitter in 2013 that she doesn't celebrate the holiday, calling it the 'beginning of a great crime.'

Last Thanksgiving, Girl Meets World star Rowan Blanchard took to Instagram to encourage her followers to donate to The Navajo Water Project 'on this strange, state sanctioned annual celebration of colonial genocide.'

And Shailene Woodley boycotted the national holiday in 2016 after being arrested at the North Dakota Access Pipeline.

The actress was protesting the construction of the oil pipeline that would run through Standing Rock Indian Reservation, potentially contaminating the drinking water.

Take that: Before sharing her views on the holiday, Tess hit back at trolls who accused her of her editing her backside in her latest sexy selfie

'Thanksgiving was founded on a massacre,' she told TYT Politics that year.

Before Tess made her own feelings about Thanksgiving known, she hit back at trolls who accused her of her editing her backside in her latest sexy selfie, which shows her wearing nothing but a black teddy.

After sharing the snapshot with a black and white filter on Wednesday, she posted the original photo on Instagram Stories the next day, writing: 'I love when ppl tell me I edit my ass in photos... f**k u.'

The body positive activist shamed her own trolls a few days before with an Instagram post in which she refers to herself as a 'fat pig.'

The model took to social media to post a photo of herself sitting with a cute baby pit snuggling in her lap.

Witty: Tess posted a picture of herself with a rescued pig earlier this week

Hitting back: 'Just two fat pigs hangin out being cute,’ she captioned the image, adding emoji of a pig snout and pink hearts

Cute! The pig was rescued by comedian Whitney Cummings. Tess initially shared this snapshot of them together

The girls: Before heading to Las Vegas, she shared a few busty photos in her Insta Stories

‘Just two fat pigs hangin out being cute,’ she captioned the image, adding emoji of a pig snout and pink hearts.

In the picture, Tess appears to be sitting on the couch with a blue blanket in her lap.

Her hair is up and she wears a black tank top, and a small pig sits in her lap.

As she explained in the caption of another picture — a similar snap in which comedian Whitney Cummings sits with her and the pig — the animal is actually staying with Whitney.

She wrote that the ‘sweet 4 week old piggy’ was rescued from the fires in Southern California, and Whitney is 'fostering him until he is ready to go to his forever home'.

'She was gracious enough to let me go over last night and cuddle the sweet guy & give him thousands of nose touches!' she went on.

'Also special shout-out to you Whitney, you’ve not only rescued so many animals during the fires the past week (& reunited some with their owners!), but helped so many families & you’re a special human being!'

====== 130 ========

RITA ORA DAZZLES IN GRECIAN-INSPIRED IVORY GOWN AS SHE ATTENDS SIGNING FOR HER NEW ALBUM

She was roasted on Twitter following her lip sync fail at the Thanksgiving Parade on Thursday in NYC.

But Rita Ora brushed off the backlash as she put on a stunning sartorial display at a signing for her new album Phoenix in Liverpool on Friday.

The Hot Right Now singer, 27, dazzled in a Grecian-inspired gown one-shoulder gown which showed off her slender frame as she posed up a storm with copies of her new album.

Back on home turfg: Rita Ora brushed off the backlash as she put on a stunning sartorial display at a signing for her new album Phoenix in Liverpool on Friday

The gown featured a statement flared sleeve with crystal detail and a ruched waist.

Adding extra edge to the look, the clinging skirt also sported an eye-catching ruffle detail.

Her blonde locks were styled in bouncy waves, parted in the middle while her pretty features were enhanced with smoky shadow, feline flicks of liner and a peach gloss.

Elegance: The Hot Right Now singer, 27, dazzled in a Grecian-inspired gown one-shoulder gown which showed off her slender frame, accessorizing with dazzling Dannijo earrings

She boosted her height with glittery stiletto sandals, and added a pair of dazzling $295 Dannijo earrings to complete the chic look.

Her appearance comes hours after corporate host Macy's claimed responsibility for the performance difficulties experienced by Rita and other artists.

'During today's parade, several recording artists experienced technical difficulties that negatively impacted their performance,' the department store tweeted. 'We apologize and want fans to know these issues were out of the artist's control.'

Technical difficulties: Rita was roasted on Twitter following her lip sync fail at the Thanksgiving Parade on Thursday in NYC and corporate host Macy's claimed responsibility for the performance difficulties experienced by Rita and other artists

Public apology: Hours later, Macy's claimed responsibility for the poor performance

Ora, 27, was caught lip syncing on TV when her track, Let You Love Me, played roughly five seconds ahead of her.

The UK native waved and smiled obliviously as she mouthed the words along with the music coming from her in-ear monitors that didn't match the loud speakers.

Directors were forced to cut to wide angle shots in an attempt to distract viewers from the glitch.

Epic fail: Ora, 27, was caught lip syncing on TV when her track, Let You Love Me, played roughly five seconds ahead of her. The UK native waved and smiled obliviously as she mouthed the words along with the music coming from her in-ear monitors

TV illusion: Directors were forced to cut to wide angle shots in an attempt to distract viewers from the glitch

John Legend, who was also called out for lip syncing, jumped to his fellow performer's (and his own) defense.

'Fun fact. We all have to lip sync on this parade because the floats don't have the capacity to handle the sound requirements for a live performance,' he tweeted.

'Hope y'all enjoyed it anyway. Know that if you come to my shows, the vocals are 100% live!'

Me too: John Legend, who was also called out for lip syncing, jumped to his fellow performer's (and his own) defense on Twitter

Fun fact: 'We all have to lip sync on this parade because the floats don't have the capacity to handle the sound requirements for a live performance,' he tweeted

Shortly afterward, Rita tweeted a similar statement.

'@johnlegend thank you for clarifying. It’s annoying for us but anyway!' she tweeted. '

'All my shows are 100 percent live always have been! When you come to an ORA show get ready! Back to holidays! Have a good one guys! :) X'

United front: Shortly after John, Rita tweeted a similar statement

Ouch: Twitter was quick to mock the singer, with the Miss J reaction meme quickly rolled out

Nevertheless, Twitter users couldn't help but ridicule the parade performances.

'I was almost 90% sure that I am existing in reality, but after seeing Rita Ora lip sync her song off cue on a Krazy Glue float I’m not so sure,' one posted.

'Watching Rita Ora fail at lip syncing and the camera people having to cut away from her made my #MacysDayParade,' added another.

'Happy Thanksgiving to the fine folks in the NBC control room who keep panning away from Rita Ora’s face because her lip-synch is off by a solid four bars,' posted a third.

====== 131 ========

NICOLE KIDMAN ADMITS HER MARRIAGE TO KEITH URBAN HIT A ROCKY PATCH

They've been married for more than a decade, having found love way back in 2005.

But while Nicole Kidman's marriage to Keith Urban has withstood the test of time, the actress admitted it hasn't always been plain sailing during her appearance on Friday night's The Graham Norton Show.

As well as speaking about the hardships her marriage has endured on the chat show, the Hollywood actress, 51, also recently opened up to Stylist magazine about feeling 'lonely' following the demise of her 11-year marriage to Tom Cruise.

Candid: While Nicole Kidman's marriage to Keith Urban has withstood the test of time, the actress admitted it hasn't always been plain sailing during her appearance on Friday night's The Graham Norton Show

The actress' marital revelations came as she discussed her latest movie, The Destroyer, which the Moulin Rouge star admitted was one her most challenging roles to date.

She told Graham: 'It's really a tough, gritty film, which is something I'd never done and I am always looking for new territory to explore.

'And, when you are cast to play the older character you don't usually get to play the younger, but a great thing as an actor is when you get to play both. It was a gift to be able to arc out the whole story for the character.'

'I had to live it': Nicole candidly confessed that tapping into the dark mindset of The Destroyer protagonist Erin Bell had a negative impact on her marriage to Keith

Tough: The Moulin Rouge star admitted her Destroyer role was one her most challenging roles to date

But Nicole candidly confessed that tapping into the dark mindset of her character Erin Bell had a negative impact on her marriage to Keith, who was eager for the star to wrap up filming on the thriller.

Branding herself a 'nightmare', she explained: 'My husband was like, "When is this going to end?" As an actor, you take on things and some you can shed and walk away from and others you can't.

'The character had to seep out of my pores and I didn't know how to perform that, so I just had to live it. I was a bit of a nightmare!'

Something different: Nicole told Graham of her new thriller: 'It's really a tough, gritty film, which is something I'd never done and I am always looking for new territory to explore'

Strong line-up: Nicole appeared on the shoe alongside [from left] Geraint Thomas, Stephen Fry and Joe Lycett

It isn't the first time Nicole has boldly detailed her relationship woes of late, as she recently told Stylist that she felt 'lonely' after splitting from Mission Impossible star Tom Cruise, who filed for divorced from the Australian actress in 2001.

Admitting she actively sought a partner after the split and made a conscious effort to ensure her work schedule wouldn't hinder her chances of finding love.

The Oscar-winning actress said: 'I was very lonely and I didn’t want to be. So I went, "OK, I’m going to try and meet my partner", and that takes time."

'It can’t be working all the time and flitting around the world.'

More revelations: Nicole recently told Stylist that she felt 'lonely' after splitting from Mission Impossible star Tom Cruise, who filed for divorced from the Australian actress in 2001

Offspring: Nicole adopted son Connor, 23, and daughter Isabella, 25, during her marriage to Tom

It wasn't until a few years after the split that Nicole managed to find her soulmate in husband Keith, who she met at the 2005 G'Day USA gala, which honours Australians living in Los Angeles.

Nicole previously admitted that she felt ready to marry the country singer, who hails from New Zealand, after just a month of dating, but the pair waited until the following year before tying the knot.

The couple later welcomed daughter Sunday, 10, and Faith, seven. Nicole also adopted son Connor, 23, and daughter Isabella, 25, during her marriage to Tom.

====== 132 ========

JADA PINKETT SMITH SAYS SHE'S 'NOT MATURE ENOUGH' TO HAVE DIVORCE FROM HUSBAND OF OVER 20 YEARS WILL

She has been married to Will Smith for nearly 21 years which is ages in Hollywood relationships.

But despite over two decades together, Jada Pinkett Smith doesn't feel like she can handle a divorce.

The 47-year-old actress opened up about the possibility of a marital split in a teaser for her Facebook Watch series Red Table Talk released on Friday.

Revealing: Jada Pinkett Smith opened up about the possibility of a marital split in a teaser for her Facebook Watch series Red Table Talk released on Friday

Just the two of us: The 47-year-old actress has been married to Will Smith for nearly 21 years

She was joined by famous singer Toni Braxton and her own mother Adrienne Banfield-Jones as she revealed: 'For me personally, I’m not mature enough to have a divorce.

'I’m just not. I don’t think I would ever be mature enough. I don’t.'

The 51-year-old singer Braxton - who divorced husband of 12 years Keri Lewis in 2013 - seemed surprised by the revelation and queried her why.

'For me personally, I’m not mature enough to have a divorce': She was joined by famous singer Toni Braxton and her own mother Adrienne Banfield-Jones

Interested party: The 51-year-old singer Braxton - who divorced husband of 12 years Keri Lewis in 2013 - seemed surprised by the revelation and queried her why

Taking a stand: Jada replied: 'Because when you have to start going in, breaking up assets, that right there…'

Jada replied: 'Because when you have to start going in, breaking up assets, that right there…'

She trailed off a bit as her mother finished up the statement by saying: 'When you have to start to divide things, separate, cut off...'

Pinkett Smith agreed with her mother as she said: 'Let me tell you, that’s when the red table turns upside down and it won’t be red no more!'

Save: She trailed off a bit as her mother finished up the statement by saying: 'When you have to start to divide things, separate, cut off...'

'This’ll be smashed in shambles': She jokingly knocked on her red table

'This’ll be smashed in shambles,' as she jokingly knocked on her red table. 'You know what I’m saying?'

Her famous husband Will appeared on the Facebook program last month as he addressed the same issue.

'You know why I haven't gotten a divorce?' Will said. 'Because I have never found anybody like you, and I knew if I wasn't with you, I'd be searching in vain for the rest of my life.'

Jada was touched by her husband's gushing statement.

Family matters: Her famous husband Will appeared on the Facebook program last month as he addressed the same issue

'I have never found anybody like you': Smith said his wife was a one-of-a-kind person

'See? Sometimes he says the right things!'

Will and Jada, 47, married in 1997 and together have children Will Smith and Jaden Smith.

The actor has a second son, Trey, 25, from his first marriage to Sheree Zampino.

====== 133 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: FLEUR EAST FLAUNTS HER INCREDIBLE ABS IN SEXY BIKINI

Fleur East sent temperatures soaring as she cooled off in the I'm A Celebrity! outdoor shower in Friday's episode.

The X Factor star, 31, flaunted her incredible abs and ample assets in a plunging black bikini as she washed herself in the jungle.

She was joined by fellow campmates Emily Atack, 28, and John Barrowman, 51, who stripped down to their swimwear to lark around in the creek.

Body goals: Fleur East sent temperatures soaring as she cooled off in the I'm A Celebrity! outdoor shower in Friday's episode

Inbetweeners star Emily ensured all eyes were on her in her mismatched bikini, which featured a snake-print one-shoulder top and black bottoms.

She seemed to be in great spirits as she clambered onto John's back and wrapped her arms affectionately around the actor's neck.

The duo had no doubt strengthened their bond during the bushtucker trial earlier that day.

Emily and John were pitted against Thompson-Dwyer and Rita Simons in the 'Drown And Out' challenge, which saw the teams trying to find stars in a tank filling slowly with water.

Making a splash: She was joined by fellow campmates Emily Atack, 28, and John Barrowman, 51, who stripped down to their swimwear to lark around in the creek

Turning heads: The X Factor star, 31, flaunted her incredible abs and ample assets in a plunging black bikini as she washed herself in the jungle

Looking good: Inbetweeners star Emily ensured all eyes were on her in her mismatched bikini, which featured a snake-print one-shoulder top and black bottoms

Emily squealed in panic as water snakes swam around her legs and was forced to cling to a ladder while John, 51, stepped in to try to complete the task.

The rules stated that both teams would start the Trial at the bottom of two tanks. When the time started, the water in the tanks would begin to rise.

The teams' aim was to find the keys at the bottom of the tank and undo the padlocks on the coloured levers down the wall of the tank.

Looking good: The make-up free actress wore her blonde tresses in pigtails and rocked a khaki trilby

Loving life: She seemed to be in great spirits as she clambered onto John's back

Firm friends: She beamed as she wrapped her arms affectionately around the actor's neck

Once they had undone all the padlocks on each lever, they would need to remove the chain and pull the lever down. That would make water pour out of the corresponding tap on their opponents' tank.

The tanks filled up quickly and more jungle critters started to appear in the tanks including water pythons and crocs. John told Emily to be calm as she squealed as the snakes swam around her legs.

'They don't like you as much as you don't like them. Stick to the plan. It might be a s**t one but keep to it,' he said.

Showing off those moves? John created waves by paddling his arms in the water

Bold and bright: The Torchwood actor rocked some purple and yellow swimming shorts

Emily got more and more bothered about the snakes so John instructed her to give him all the keys whilst she clung to the ladder.

The water rose in both tanks but it was Emily and John's that flooded out first meaning that Rita and Malique were the winners.

Holly revealed that they both released three of their five levers but because Rita and Malique did theirs first they won.

Taking some time out: Meanwhile, Malique Thompson-Dwyer enjoyed a refreshing outdoor shower

Stealing the limelight: The Hollyoaks actor flaunted his muscled torso as he washed himself

====== 134 ========

MILLENNIALS WATCHING A CHARLIE BROWN THANKSGIVING THINK IT'S RACIST

Millennials watching A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving for the first time have branded the holiday favorite as racist.

The classic animated special was broadcast on the national holiday, but many claimed that they were left feeling uneasy about how one of the characters was treated.

The episode, which airs annually on ABC, features a holiday meal shared between the characters, after Peppermint Patty invites herself and others to Charlie Brown and Sally's house.

Scroll down for video

The scene viewers found offensive was during the Thanksgiving meal where Franklin, the only black character in the show, was sat by himself at dinner

Although they are planning on heading to their grandmother's house for Thanksgiving dinner, Linus convinces Charlie they have time for two feasts.

But viewers suggested that the fact Franklin, the only black character in the show, is sat by himself on one side of the table by himself is discriminatory.

Another point made was that Franklin had been given a different chair to his friends, as he was sat on a lawn chair rather than a dining chair.

Viewers reacted to the episode suggesting the way Franklin was treated by his friends is racist

Some viewers appeared to be watching the annual episode for the first time, while others seemed to have only just noticed that Franklin was seated by himself.

One Twitter user wrote: 'Am I woke now, why is Franklin in Charlie Brown Thanksgiving sitting all by himself at the table. Man. Things that I did not notice as a child.'

While another questioned also questioned the seating plan, adding: 'How come Franklin, Charlie's only black friend, sits alone on the other side of the table? And in a lawn chair. #Franklin #Charliebrown #CharlieBrownThanksGiving

Fans noted that he was sat on a lawn chair while everyone else had dining chairs

Others took to Twitter to defend the show suggesting that its a 'joke' that people would be offended by the program

A third demanded that they changed the show to seat some of Franklin's friends alongside him or he would no longer watch the holiday classic.

However many were quick to defend the program, highlighting that the show's creator Charles M. Schulz fought to get Franklin into the cartoon.

One man said: 'Seriously please get some historical context. Charles M. Schultz was a trailblazer and bucked racism in those days by adding Franklin to reflect the issue... and challenging what was then going on in society.'

Another dubbed the accusation of racism a 'joke', adding: 'Man, I was just watching this today and I thought, "I wonder why people haven't attributed racism to Franklin having the crappy chair at the Thanksgiving table.' And here it is. What a joke."

The episode first aired on November 20 in 1973 on CBS up until 2000 before it moved to ABC in 2001 and still airs annually.

Franklin was first added into the show by Schultz when a teacher wrote to him and asked for a black child to be included into his cartoon.

Harriet Glickman assured Schultz that something as small as him writing a child of color into his work as the friend of a white child could make a radical impact.

Although Schultz worried that people would consider the new addition as tokenism, Glickman had a solution for this as well.

She asked her friends to write to Schultz and persuade him that the accusation of being patronizing is a small price to pay for the difference he could make.

Years after Franklin was first added into his comic strip, Schultz said that his editor was against the idea, however he told him, 'Well, Larry, let's put it this way: Either you print it just the way I draw it or I quit. How's that?' So that's the way that ended.

====== 135 ========

DEMI LOVATO WISHES FANS HAPPY THANKSGIVING AS SHE POSTS PHOTO OF DECADENT FEAST

She has recently unfollowed several old friends on Instagram - including her good pal Nick Jonas.

But Demi Lovato seemed to have it all at the back of her mind on Thursday as she enjoyed a Thanksgiving feast with her loved ones.

The pop star, 26, wished all of her followers a happy Thanksgiving as she posted a photo of her rich and delicious table spread that evening.

Holiday cheer! Demi Lovato wished all of her followers a happy Thanksgiving as she posted a photo of her rich and delicious table spread that evening

'HAPPY THANKSGIVING EVERYBODY!!!' she gushed in the photo.

Demi's table was packed with traditional Thanksgiving dishes, including turkey, stuffing, gravy, cranberry sauce, and green beans.

It marked a rare social media update from the songstress, who has kept a rather low-profile on Instagram ever since suffering from an overdose over the summer.

Recently, Demi's social media activity landed her in headlines after the star un-followed the likes of Iggy Azalea, and her old pals Selena Gomez and Nick Jonas.

Unfollowed! But recently, Demi's social media activity landed her in headlines after the star un-followed the likes of Iggy Azalea, and her old pals Selena Gomez and Nick Jonas (pictured 2016)

A source told ET Online the actress had stopped following the stars in an effort to focus on herself and stay away from 'negative relationships.'

'She wants to focus on herself and avoid any difficult relationships,' a source told the site.

'She needs to surround herself with those that support her goals and to stay away from any negativity. Demi has come a very long way. She's grown emotionally and matured a great deal through this process.

'She realises there is no quick fix and has accepted the fact she needs to take this one day at a time. She still has a sober companion and she has built a very strong support group.'

Not on her list: Lovato even unfollowed her old pal Selena Gomez (pictured 2011)

====== 136 ========

EVA HERZIGOVÁ, 45, SHOWS OFF HER AGE-DEFYING CURVES AS SHE SIZZLES IN NEW LINGERIE CAMPAIGN

She was catapulted into the spotlight as the star of the iconic 'Hello Boys' campaign for Wonderbra in 1994.

And Eva Herzigová paid homage to the legendary shoot that made her famous as she sizzled in a new holiday campaign for Italian lingerie brand Yamamay.

The supermodel, 45, flaunted her youthful-looking appearance as she stunned in a plunging black bra and semi-sheer briefs, tied in with close-fitting stockings before changing into a very sexy red baby doll which showed off her incredible legs.

Wow: Eva Herzigová paid homage to the legendary shoot that made her famous as she sizzled in a new holiday campaign for Italian lingerie brand Yamamay

The catwalk queen also exhibited her gym-honed midsection and she posed up against a red backdrop.

The My Best Friends Wife actress styled her beautiful golden locks in a curly up-do, wearing a full face of make-up including a a bright red lip that matched her sultry lingerie.

Adding a pretty touch to the steamy look, the star placed pink flower in her hair.

Sizzling: The supermodel, 45, flaunted her youthful-looking appearance as she stunned in a very sexy red baby doll which showed off her incredible legs

Incredible: The catwalk queen also exhibited her gym-honed midsection and she posed up against a red backdrop

In another look, the mother-of-three ensured all eyes were on her as she accentuated her out-of-this-world body in a black and red bodice with a narrow leg wide trouser.

A fourth look saw Eva in a perilously black nightgown with a thigh high split as she upped the sex appeal with thigh-high stockings for her outfit.

The legendary model rose to stardom with her sultry lingerie Wonderbra shoot over two decades ago, and has since starred in campaigns and runways for Harper's Bazaar, Vogue and Louis Vuitton.

Icon: The legendary model rose to stardom with her sultry lingerie Wonderbra shoot over two decades ago

Stunning: The blonde bombshell was catapulted into the spotlight as the star of the iconic ‘Hello Boys’ campaign for Wonderbra in 1994

Earlier this year, she appeared in high spirits as she was christened in an intimate ceremony during her her eldest child's First Communion service in Liguria, Italy.

Eva and her son George were surrounded by their loved ones as they took to the altar for their religious ceremonies.

A Christening serves as a symbol of purification and admission to the Christian Church, while Communion is an act which involves eating bread and wine to reenact the Last Supper.

Pretty: Adding a pretty touch to the steamy look, the star placed pink flower in her hair

In an interview with Hello!, Eva shared details on her thoughts on motherhood saying: 'I breathe for my boys and there are times when my husband reminds me to be a bit more selfish and to think of myself as well.'

The blonde bombshell swore of marriage after a turbulent divorce from Bon Jovi drummer Tico Torres.

But Eva announced her engagement to the father of her three children, Gregorio Marsiaj, last March, after a 16 year romance.

====== 137 ========

KHLOE KARDASHIAN SHARES PHOTO WITH TRISTAN AND TRUE FROM THANKSGIVING

Khloe Kardashian and her family were picture perfect on Thursday as she shared snaps from her Thanksgiving in Cleveland, Ohio.

The 34-year-old TV star posed alongside beau Tristan Thompson and their daughter True for a holiday photo marking the tot's first Thanksgiving.

Khloe who coordinated with Tristan and True in pink captioned the photo: 'True and I were hungry'.

True's first Thanksgiving: Khloe shared this sweet family photo of her with boyfriend Tristan Thompson and True from Thanksgiving in Cleveland

True, seven months, looked gorgeous in a pink ballet outfit with embellished headband and slip-on shoes with pom-poms.

Tristan held on to his baby girl with one hand and wrapped his other arm around Khloe.

Koko wore her blonde locks down with some bejeweled hoop earrings.

No doubt missing all her family back in Los Angeles Khloe also posted an image with several generations of the Kardashian family.

The reality star shared a photo of her mom Kris Jenner, 62, holding Kim's 10-month-old daughter Chicago, with grandma Mary Jo 'MJ' Campbell, 84, holding her granddaughter True.

Special moments: In another cute image Khloe doted on True as the tot stood on one of the dining chairs

Ready to eat mom! Baby True wore a cute pastel pink outfit with embellished headband

The photo, which was shared on her Instagram Thursday, was captioned, 'Thankful for generations of love.'

Khloe's relationship with Cleveland Cavaliers NBA star Tristan Thompson has been controversial after it was revealed Thompson had cheated on her earlier this year while she was just days away from giving birth.

Many wondered how long the relationship would last, especially after Khloe put her plans to move to Cleveland this fall on hold.

Still, despite all that, a source told People that Khloe wanted True to spend her first Thanksgiving with her father.

Low key: The couple were joined by some of Tristan's friends who didn't want to smile for the snap

Generations of love: The 34-year-old reality star shared a photo of her mom Kris Jenner, 62, holding Kim's 10-month-old daughter Chicago, with grandma Mary Jo 'MJ' Campbell, 84, holding her granddaughter True

Khloe in Cleveland: Khloe's relationship with Cleveland Cavaliers NBA star Tristan Thompson has been quite controversial after it was revealed Thompson had cheated on her earlier this year

'Khloé is taking True to Cleveland for Thanksgiving,' says the source. 'Tristan has a game and can't make it to L.A.'

'It's True's first Thanksgiving, so Khloé wants them to be together,' the source added.

Khloe also posted her Thanksgiving planning guide on her official website on Friday, where she revealed a place card that said 'Thankful for Tristan.'

It's perhaps for the best that Tristan couldn't be in L.A. for the holiday, since People's source also indicates the rest of Khloe's family is not a fan of the NBA player.

'Khloé's family can't stand Tristan,' says the source. 'They understand that Khloé wants True to spend time with Tristan and are supportive of that.'

'There is not much love for Tristan any more,' the source added.

'Khloé's family can't stand Tristan,' says the source. 'They understand that Khloé wants True to spend time with Tristan and are supportive of that.'

Thanksgiving spread: Khloe also took to Instagram on Thursday to share photos of the Thanksgiving dinner spread that was laid out in Cleveland

Yum! The feast included plenty of sweet treats like iced donuts

Khloe also took to Instagram on Thursday to share photos of the Thanksgiving dinner spread that was laid out in Cleveland.

The cheating scandal was addressed in last week's episode of Keeping Up With the Kardashians, where Khloe admitted it wasn't any easier having this unfold with the public watching.

'It's so much harder to deal with it when it's so public. Everyone is giving you their opinions and their input and their unsolicited advice,' she said. 'Even the nurses and the doctors — everyone kind of like, looking sideways at the whole situation. That's hard, and it's humiliating.'

'He obviously f—ed up, major, but I'm not sure how I feel about everything right now,' the reality star added. 'In two weeks I might be like, 'You know what? I don't trust you and this isn't for me.' Or I might say, 'This is perfect. Let's keep it going.'

Khloe's dinner: Khloe also took to Instagram on Thursday to share photos of the Thanksgiving dinner spread that was laid out in Cleveland

====== 138 ========

SOFIA RICHIE SPENDS THANKSGIVING WITH MOM WHILE BOYFRIEND SCOTT DISICK CELEBRATES WITH EX AND KIDS

Sofia Richie celebrated Thanksgiving with her mother and a group of friends on Thursday.

The 20-year-old aspiring model documented her day in Malibu on social media, sharing pictures of her mother Diane and a pal, Bianca Bowes.

Her dad Lionel Richie didn't appear to be there, but they were joined by other pals at a picturesque home right on the beach.

Meanwhile, Sofia's boyfriend Scott Disick was celebrating the holiday with his ex Kourtney Kardashian and their brood.

Fun: Sofia Richie spent Thanksgiving with her mom Diane Richie (left) and a pal, Bianca Bowes

Scott - whom dated Kourtney, 39, on and off for almost a decade until 2015 - rung in the festive season with the extended Kardashian clan and their children, Mason, eight, Penelope, five, and Reign, three.

Kourtney posted a photo of her with Scott and the kids on Thursday.

She wrote: 'I woke up this morning in bed with my children, in the same house as my sisters (minus @khloekardashian i miss you), my brothers, the father of my kids, my mommy, my grandma, my nieces and nephew. I feel beyond grateful. Happy Thanksgiving!'

It's unknown whether Sofia was invited to the Keeping Up with the Kardashians star's Thanksgiving get together.

Meanwhile... Scott Disick spent the day with ex Kourtney Kardashian, who shared a snap of the pair with their children

Kourtney also took to her Instagram story to post several videos of the famous family's feast being prepared, which was largely cooked by the youngest sister in the family, 21-year-old Kylie Jenner.

Family matriarch Kris Jenner took charge when it came to making brownies, whilst Kourtney joked in the clips that she was 'teaching' Kylie how to cook their extravagant meal.

Meanwhile, Khloe Kardashian and her seven-month-old daughter True weren't present at the get together, as they were spending the holiday in Cleveland, where Khloe's boyfriend - and True's father - Tristan Thompson lives.

An insider said: 'Tristan's schedule worked out so they could spend Thanksgiving together in Cleveland.

'It's True's first Thanksgiving and Khloe wants to celebrate it as a family. It's very important to her that True has her own family traditions and is with both her mom and dad.'

====== 139 ========

KATE AND WILLIAM TO THROW CHRISTMAS PARTY FOR CHILDREN OF MILITARY PERSONNEL

With Christmas fast approaching the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are set to throw their support behind military personnel who will be spending the festive season away from their families.

The royal couple will complete two engagements during the first week of December, including a Christmas party for families and children of personnel from RAF Coningsby and RAF Marham who are serving in Cyprus

Kensington Palace said the couple want to 'acknowledge and honour' the fact that 7,500 military personnel are deployed overseas or away from home on exercises and may miss out on time with their families over the festive period.

On Wednesday 5th December, the couple will fly to RAF Akrotiri in Cyprus to meet with personnel, families and members of the local community.

The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are set to throw a Christmas party for children of deployed troops, and will flyi to Cyrpus to meet personnel and their families next month. Pictured: Meeting British soldiers from the Light Dragoons on July 18, 2017 in Gdansk, Poland

After training at Sandhurst, William was commissioned into the Blues and Royals (pictured in Army uniform in 2008) before joining the RAF

The royal family has always maintained close links with the Armed Forces and both William and his brother Harry have previously served with the latter completing ten years in the British Army.

Prince William trained at Sandhurst military academy and when he graduated in December 2006 he was commissioned into the Blues and Royals, a regiment of the Household Cavalry.

Two years later he received his RAF wings from his father, the Prince of Wales, and transferred from the Army to the RAF and made Flight Lieutenant Wales

Two years later, in 2010, he joined the RAF's Search and Rescue Force

Prince Wiliam Flight Training at RAF Cranwell, Lincolnshire, in 2008. The Duke has a long histor in the Armed Forces and spent five years in the RAF

In 2012, he was deployed for a tour in the Falkland Islands 30 years after Britain fought a war with Argentina to reclaim them

His active service with the Air Force came to an end in 2013, and he joined the East Anglian Air Ambulance in 2015.

In addition to their royal duties, Christmas will be a busy time for the couple who will be enjoying their first as a family-of-five after Kate gave birth to their third child Prince Louis in April.

The couple last year spent Christmas at Sandringham with the Queen and members of the royal family, however it's not yet clear if they will follow suit for 2018.

Prince Louis, pictured in his mother's arms on his christening day in July, will be celebrating his first Christmas this year, alongside his parents and brother and sister Charlotte and George

In an interview on German TV channel, Leute Heute, earlier this month, Kate's brother James said he was looking forward to a family Christmas that will give the Middletons a chance to 'regroup'.

His comments suggest that the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge may once again skip Christmas at Sandringham with with Queen in favour of spending 25th December at the Middleton home in Berkshire.

Describing the warm reception guests can expect to receive at Michael and Carole’s £4.7million mansion in Bucklebury, Berkshire, James, 31, said: 'I welcome people into our family home. I want it to feel like it's their home.

Kate and Pippa's younger brother James has opened up about looking forward to champagne and turkey with the family in an interview with German TV channel Leute Heute

'There'll be turkey, champagne and some wine. For me it's all about family. It's one where we can all regroup.'

In 2016, William and Kate broke with tradition by spending the festive season with the Middletons rather than joining the Queen at Sandringham.

At the time experts said the decision was made to put the needs of George and Charlotte, who were then three and 18 months, first and give them a more relaxed experience rather than the formality of Sandringham.

====== 140 ========

RAPPER FAT JOE TRIED TO WARN TEKASHI 6IX9INE THAT POLICE WERE 'PLOTTING ON HIM'

Rapper Fat Joe tried to warn Daniel Hernandez about his alleged affiliation with the Bloods gang

Rapper Fat Joe tried to warn Daniel Hernandez, known to many as Tekashi 6ix9ine, about his alleged affiliation with the Bloods gang before he was arrested.

Fat Joe - real name Joseph Antonio Cartagena - addressed Tekashi 6ix9ine during an unearthed podcast nine months ago.

Cartagena said that Hernandez was in a frantic state of mind when he realized the police were after him two weeks ago, TMZ reports.

He told the news site: 'I was just trying to school him, I mean I had the heat on me, I was wiling in the streets so I felt it was my job, because none of the OG's when I came into the rap game schooled me - they could have stopped me from a lot of trouble.'

The rapper said that he tries to warn any young stars entering into the rap game, it just so happened that his warning to Hernadez was on camera.

He added: 'I prayed for him all last night, when you get to know him he's a cool kid and unfortunately he's got a serious situation on his hands but I tried to warn him.'

Despite the charges Hernadez is up against, Caragena said at the end of the interview that he doesn't believe his career is over.

6ix9ine, whose real name is Daniel Hernandez, was indicted on racketeering and firearm charges in Manhattan federal court on Monday. He is pictured in court in October

It comes after the news that the rapper, 22, has been moved from prison to a federal facility just days after he was warned that he could face life behind bars.

During the 'Coco Vision' podcast aired on Tidal, Cartagena told Hernandez that police were 'one million per cent plotting on him', after revealing that he believes they tried to set him up.

Cartegena said: 'I got to tell you right. You seen what happened to Bobby Shmurda', who was sentenced to seven years in prison for weapons possession in 2016.

He added: These people, these police tried to set me up so many times. 'They did not like who I was, who I stood for, They wanted to get me, one million per cent they are plotting on you.'

Records show that Hernandez was discharged from the Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn on Wednesday, after a grand jury indicted him and five members of the Nine Trey Gangsta Bloods on racketeering charges.

The rapper faces 25 years to life in prison. He is pictured in Manhattan Criminal Court in July

It comes after the news that the rapper, 22, has been moved from prison to a federal facility just days after he was warned that he could face life behind bars

There is no transfer facility listed however for Hernandez, as is standard when a prisoner is released from the MDC.

The 'FeFe' rapper has not been cleared however in that racketeering case, and is still facing six counts and a sentence of 25 years to life in prison for his alleged involvement in multiple acts involving murder, robbery, extortion, and distribution of controlled substances.

6ix9ine has been involved in the violent New York City-based gang Nine Trey for several years, federal prosecutors said

DailyMail.com reached out to Hernandez's lawyer Lance Lazzaro over the holiday, who did not respond to a request for comment.

There are conflicting reports as to where Hernandez has been moved at this time.

TMZ first broke the story on Thursday and reported that the rapper was being housed in a facility for individuals who agree to cooperate with authorities.

Soon after DJ Akademiks, who worked with Hernandez on his now-delayed album Dummy Boy, offered up his own theory.

He posted a lengthy diatribe on his YouTube channel in which he conjectured that Hernandez may have been used as a pawn to get the other five defendants indicted on RICO charges.

The producer cited the decision by law enforcement officials to quickly indict the group and pointed out that it all happened after Hernandez disbanded his team, a move that would have made it harder to show the connection between members of the group.

That would ultimately make it difficult to prosecute on racketeering charges, so his belief is that prosecutors are hopsing hernandez will flip and therefore put him in a ghang-free facility.

Hernandez was initially held without bail after an initial appearance before a Manhattan federal magistrate judge Monday.

The indictment alleges that the violent episodes involving 6ix9ine included the July shooting of a bystander in Brooklyn and the gunpoint robbery of one of the gang's rivals last spring.

Hernandez was initially held without bail after an initial appearance before a Manhattan federal magistrate judge Monday.

On Wednesday, defense attorney Lance Lazzaro said in a statement that his client was 'completely innocent of all charges.'

This April 3, 2018 still image from a surveillance video was released by federal prosecutors to document alleged involvement by the rapper in several violent incidents

This April 21, 2018 still image from a surveillance video shows a shooting at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, which prosecutors claim the rapper and Nine Trey were involved in

'An entertainer who portrays a 'gangster image' to promote his music does not make him a member of an enterprise,' said Lazzaro.

'Mr. Hernandez became a victim of this enterprise and later took steps by firing employees and publicly denounced this enterprise through a morning show. Threats were then made against his life which resulted in this case being brought immediately.'

At Monday's hearing, Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Longyear pointed out that the rapper did not renounce his membership in the gang while appearing on a radio show last week.

6ix9ine's former manager Kifano Jordan (pictured November 7 in Manhattan court) has also been charged in the gang-related crimes

He said Hernandez would have been arrested this week anyway, but the timetable was speeded up when authorities learned that he planned to go to a Connecticut casino where it would be harder to protect him from the threats.

Longyear said the threats were overheard on phone calls intercepted Saturday by investigators, including one in which an individual was heard saying that gang members wanted to 'super violate him.'

The prosecutor noted that violence seemed to surround the entertainer. He said 10 shots were fired into a Beverly Hills, California, home where he was filming a music video a week ago.

Hernandez had previously been kidnapped outside his Brooklyn residence as well in a bizarre incident this past July in which three men alleged robbed and beat him before making off with $750,000 worth of jewelry and $35,000 in cash.

His ex-manager Kifano Jordan, aka Shotti,Faheem Walter, aka Crippy, Jamel Jones, aka Mel Murda, Jensel Butler, aka Ish, and Fuguan Lovick, aka Fu Banga, were also indicted.

Prosecutors described Nine Trey as a 'criminal enterprise involved in committing numerous acts of violence, including shootings, robberies, and assaults in and around Manhattan and Brooklyn'.

'Members and associates of Nine Trey engaged in violence to retaliate against rival gangs, to promote the standing and reputation of Nine Trey, and to protect the gang's narcotics business,' the press release continues.

The group 'enriched themselves by committing robberies and selling drugs, such as heroin, fentanyl, furanly fentanyl, MDMA, dibutylone, and marijuana.'

Nine Trey was established in the early 90s at Rikers and operates in other areas of the country, including California.

In 2015, 6Hernandez pleaded guilty to one felony count of using a child in a sexual performance.

Authorities said the rapper had sexual contact with a 13-year-old girl when he was 18 and distributed videos of the incident online.

Hernandez recently pleaded guilty to disorderly conduct in Brooklyn Criminal Court in connection with a May traffic stop.

Last week the rapper revealed in an Instagram clip that he had dismissed his entire staff, including his manager and booker.

'I fired everybody on my team,' the Gummo artist said in the clip, imploring his fans that he was not going to be performing live in the near future, even in cases where he might be advertised.

'I don't got no manager, I got no booking agent, no PR, no publicist, I don't got nobody on my team - it's just me.'

====== 141 ========

VS ANGEL LAIS RIBEIRO ROCKS RED BIKINI ON IPANEMA BEACH BEFORE HITTING THE SENAI BRASIL RUNWAY

Victoria's Secret Angel Lais Ribeiro rocked a red bikini while strutting her stuff on Ipanema Beach in Rio de Janeiro on Wednesday.

The 28-year-old Women Management Model was certainly in her element being back in her native Brazil over Thanksgiving break.

Joining the biracial bombshell on the sand was her swim trunks-clad colleague, Joy Model Management fashion booker Fernando Herbert.

Soaking up the sun! Victoria's Secret Angel Lais Ribeiro rocked a red bikini while strutting her stuff on Ipanema Beach in Rio de Janeiro on Wednesday

Lais - who boasts 2.1M social media followers - Insta-storied a picturesque snap of her view on the famous beach while sipping milk from a young coconut.

But by Thursday, Ribeiro was hard at work in the make-up chair for yet another glamorous modeling gig.

The statuesque 6ft stunner was participating in Senai Brasil Fashion, an educational platform challenging Senai Cetiqt students to create a collection from scratch.

Blame it on Rio: The 28-year-old Women Management Model was certainly in her element being back in her native Brazil over Thanksgiving break

Beach day: Joining the biracial bombshell on the sand was her swim trunks-clad colleague, Joy Model Management fashion booker Fernando Herbert

Sugarloaf Mountain! Lais - who boasts 2.1M social media followers - Insta-storied a picturesque snap of her view on the famous beach while sipping milk from a young coconut

After splitting with her basketballer beau of three years Jared Homan in March, the Wild 'N Out guest star moved on with NBA center Joakim Noah sometime in September.

The 33-year-old native New Yorker calls Lais 'Picanha' and gushed on October 5: 'I have no words. I just want to make you as happy as you make me. I love you!'

Both Ribeiro and the 6ft11in athlete have children with mystery exes - she has a 10-year-old son Alexendre and he has two-year-old daughter Leia Irie.

'Rio de Janeiro': But by Thursday, Ribeiro was hard at work in the make-up chair for yet another glamorous modeling gig

Backstage: The statuesque 6ft stunner was participating in Senai Brasil Fashion, an educational platform challenging Senai Cetiqt students to create a collection from scratch

Rumor has it that Joakim is close to signing a contract with the Memphis Grizzlies after the New York Knicks released him October 13 via 'the stretch-provision waiver.'

Despite fracturing her left foot, the Coachella enthusiast still conquered the coveted catwalk of the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show Holiday Special, which airs December 2 on ABC.

'I accidentally kicked the corner of my bed [a month before the show] and didn't really pay attention to that,' the SI Swimsuit stunner revealed on Instagram November 9.

New man alert! After splitting with her basketballer beau of three years Jared Homan in March, the Wild 'N Out guest star moved on with NBA center Joakim Noah (R) sometime in September (pictured October 27)

The 33-year-old native New Yorker calls Lais 'Picanha' and gushed on October 5: 'I have no words. I just want to make you as happy as you make me. I love you!'

Blended brood: Both Ribeiro and the 6ft11in athlete have children with mystery exes - she has a 10-year-old son Alexendre and he has two-year-old daughter Leia Irie

'We'll see': Rumor has it that Joakim is close to signing a contract with the Memphis Grizzlies after the New York Knicks released him October 13 via 'the stretch-provision waiver'

'I was scared to walk down the runway and feel the pain, but you know what? It was one of those days that you just have to fight cause you know it's worth it.

'I just wanted to thank you all for the love and support! The show was so special this year. Can't wait till you all can watch!'

Lais - who earned her 'wings' in 2015 - has been with the San Francisco bra brand as far back as 2010 and she's walked in eight of their lingerie extravaganzas.

Airing December 2 on ABC! Despite fracturing her left foot, the Coachella enthusiast still conquered the coveted catwalk of the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show Holiday Special

====== 142 ========

KARL LAGERFELD DISPLAYS MISSING TEETH AS HE FLASHES A BROAD GRIN

He is one of fashion's most iconic designers.

So Karl Lagerfeld was naturally a guest of honour on Thursday as he turned on the Christmas lights on Paris' Champs-Elysee where he was sporting his classic all-black look with trademark sunglasses and his white hair pulled-back.

While he sported his usual look, the 85-year-old designer was transformed slightly as he displayed missing teeth while giddily beaming at the chic event.

Beaming: Karl Lagerfeld was naturally a guest of honour on Thursday as he turned on the Christmas lights on Paris' Champs-Elysee where he was sporting his classic all-black look with trademark sunglasses and his white hair pulled-back (pictured, right, in 1998)

Karl was joined by a bevy of revelers as he turned on the lights yet dropped his fashion pout in favour of a beaming grin, which flashed his transformed dentistry.

A representative for Karl told MailOnline: 'He is currently undergoing dental treatment, however he wanted to honour his longstanding commitment to attend the ceremony.'

He was joined the Mayor of Paris, Anne Hidalgo, and two children, a nine-year-old boy and a 13-year-old girl who had been chosen to attend the ceremony by the French charity Les Petits Princes.

Heading out: While he sported his usual look, the 85-year-old designer was transformed slightly as he displayed missing teeth while giddily beaming at the chic event

Happy days: One of the festive guest happily posed for a snap with the fashion superstar

In April this year, he gave his typically acerbic responses in an interview with Numero magazine as he criticised runway models in comparison to his beloved personal assistant Sébastien Jondeau.

He said: 'Sébastien embodies a male canon that is the complete opposite of those skinny things with wonky teeth we see on runways… They certainly don’t run the risk of getting harassed. To be honest what they really need is a good dentist.'

The star also proudly discussed his physique and how he stays in good shape saying: 'I don’t get fat anymore. I was on a diet for 15 years, but now I can eat all I want without ever gaining a gram. It’s very strange.'

Way back when: As the head creative director of the Italian powerhouse Fendi, it's no surprise Karl was in demand for the glamorous event on the iconic parade (pictured last year)

As the head creative director of the Italian powerhouse Fendi, it's no surprise Karl was in demand for the glamorous event on the iconic parade.

On his new appearance, Dr Rhona Eskander spoke to MailOnline about his dentistry and changed look, saying: 'It looks as though Karl has had his teeth treated with both crowns and veneers...

'Some of his teeth were obviously being prepped (prepared for crown and veneer replacement) and in the first picture is shows that he had lost the veneers/crowns, which have been replaced in the earlier image...

'A crown is a type of cap that completely covers a real tooth. It's usually made from porcelain and is fixed in your mouth. Crowns can be fitted where a tooth has broken, decayed or been damaged, or just to make a tooth look better...

All hands on board! Karl was later pursing his lips during the fun-filled event

Expert opinion: On his new appearance, Dr Rhona Eskander spoke to MailOnline about his dentistry and changed look, saying: 'It looks as though Karl has had his teeth treated with both crowns and veneers'

'To fit a crown, the old tooth will need to be drilled down so it's like a small peg the crown will be fixed on to. Veneers are new facings for teeth that disguise a discoloured or damaged tooth. To fit a veneer, the front of the tooth is drilled away a little.'

Meanwhile, celebrity dentist, Dr Richard Marques, added: 'Years of neglect and possibly a dental phobia have likely led to this deterioration of Karl’s teeth...

'He could have also experienced an accident or traumatic incident with the front teeth which has caused them to fracture. Additionally, it is possible he is in the middle of some extensive treatment to have his teeth fixed.’

His outing comes after he sent shockwaves earlier this year when he slammed the #MeToo movement while revealing that he is 'fed up' with models and actresses speaking up about the sexual harassment they have faced over the years.

Bling, bling: He wore his favoured dark glasses which boasted a dazzling addition on the side

Out and about: Karl is well-known for his sleek look and frosted ponytail (pictured in 2012)

In an interview with French magazine Numéro, he suggested models should know what they are getting into, while defending Interview creative director Karl Templer, who has been accused of 'aggressively' pulling down models' underwear.

'If you don't want someone pulling down your panties, don't become a model,' he said. 'Join a nunnery, there'll always be a place for you in the convent. They're recruiting even!' he said.

Karl is the head creative director of Chanel and Fendi, as well as his own eponymous fashion line, and he believes the accusations being made by models are making it nearly impossible for designers to do their jobs.

'I read somewhere that now, you have to ask models whether they feel comfortable when they are posing,' he said. 'That's opening the door to anything. From then on, as a creator, you don't do anything anymore.'

Out and a pout: Karl is the head creative director of Chanel and Fendi, as well as his own eponymous fashion line, and he believes the accusations being made by models are making it nearly impossible for designers to do their jobs

Serious suddenly: He later pulled his trademark pout while showing off his edgy style

The designer said he didn't believe a 'single word' of the accusations against Templer, noting that 'a girl is complaining that he pulled on her panties and he gets excommunicated from an industry that, until then, worshiped him.'

Fashion photographers Mario Testino and Bruce Weber have also been accused of sexual misconduct this year, while Kate Upton called out Guess founder Paul Marciano for 'sexually and emotionally harassing women.'

But Karl has taken issue with the fact that that many of the women are sharing their stories of sexual harassment decades after it happened.

====== 143 ========

KENDALL JENNER POSTS MAGICAL VIDEO OF FAMILY POSING FOR UNOFFICIAL HOLIDAY PHOTO

Kim Kardashian recently hinted that this year's traditional Kardashian family Christmas card might be cancelled due to family infighting.

But the family assembled for an unofficial Thanksgiving photo on Thursday, based on a video posted to Kendall Jenner's Instagram account.

Meanwhile Kim gave a glimpse of the lavish, turkey-themed place settings for the reality TV star family's big holiday dinner.

All together now: The Kardashian family assembled for an unofficial Thanksgiving photo on Thursday, based on a video posted to Kendall Jenner's Instagram account

Supermodel Kendall showed the whole family -apart from notable exceptions Khloe and Rob- lining up for what appeared to be a family photo.

Kanye stood front and center in the photo, wearing a white T-shirt and a heavy gold chain.

Fellow in-laws Scott Disick and Travis Scott also made an appearance in the family snap, which may be the last time the clan are photographed together this year.

Last year's annual family Christmas photo caused a major family riff and resulted in Kim calling her elder sister Kourtney, 39, 'the least exciting to look at'.

Thankful: [L-R] Mary-Jo, Mason Disick, Scott Disick, Penelope Disick, Kourtney Kardashian and Kanye West assemble for the pic

And now the 38-year-old has hinted that there will be no Christmas card this year following all the drama and tension.

Over on Twitter, Kim was tweeted that a fan was 'reading her mind' after they hinted the spectacle wouldn't be taking place due to the sibling fights.

However, no such tension was evident at this Kardashian get together, with Kim sharing photos of the family's pristine place settings to social media.

The KKW Beauty founder's pics showed an 18-seat table decked out gorgeous turkey-themed plates and impeccable floral arrangements.

Calmer waters: No tension was evident at this Kardashian get together, with Kim sharing photos of the family's pristine place settings to social media

Gobble gobble: The KKW Beauty founder's pics showed an 18-seat table decked out gorgeous turkey-themed plates and impeccable floral arrangements

Meanwhile younger sister Kylie Jenner has a little more to be grateful for this holiday season.

The 21-year-old make-up mogul took to Instagram on Thursday to share an adorable family snap featuring boyfriend Travis Scott and their nine-month-old daughter Stormi.

Kylie could be seen kissing the bouncing baby girl on the cheek as she kept the caption simple by writing: 'thankful.'

The family could be seen matching in all black as they cuddled close for the rare family picture.

The youngest of the Kardashian-Jenner sisters did accessorize her simple look with several pieces of jewelry including large band rings and diamond earrings.

'thankful.': Kylie Jenner took to Instagram on Thursday to share an adorable family snap featuring boyfriend Travis Scott and their nine-month-old daughter Stormi

Look of love: The 21-year-old stunner shared another cute snap of herself cuddling with Stormi

No days off: She later promoted her 2018 Kylie Calender which drops on Friday morning

Lap of luxury: She teased the upcoming calendar with this photo of herself sitting in a bright orange luxury car

Her peroxide-blonde tresses were worn down as she accentuated her looks with smokey eye and shiny lip.

Stormi looked cherubic as her hair was put up in two small buns.

Travis, 26, looked down as he showed off his blonde braided locks as he sported two large diamond encrusted chains and stud earrings.

No doubt the Keeping Up With The Kardashians star can't wait to grub on the holiday as she took to Twitter on Wednesday to write: 'can’t wait to eat my body weight in thanksgiving food tomorrow.'

In the spirit: The Keeping Up With The Kardashians star posted several Thanksgiving-related tweets to share with her 25.7 million followers on Wednesday

Happy together: Kylie and Travis pictured together at the Met Gala in New York City back in May

Sweet: Kylie shared a cute video of Travis kissing Stormi backstage at his Astroworld Festival in Houston over the weekend

Kylie is definitely in the spirit of the holiday as she expressed her gratitude to her 25.7 million followers as she wrote: 'Thankful for you guys.'

As she makes sure to donate food every year to people in need she also shed some light on her giving side.

The Kylie Cosmetics owner wrote: 'but on that note i feel very thankful i was able to provide thanksgiving meals this year to people in need of one. it’s important we spread the love [heart emoji].'

No doubt Kylie's family can't wait to get together to celebrate together as the several members of the clan took to social media ahead of the big dinner.

Peddle to the metal: No doubt Kim Kardashian is prepping herself for a big night of eating as she took to her Instagram Stories to share a video of herself getting a bike ride in

Safety first: A female companion said something to Kim to which she responded: 'I'm trying. Don't distract me. Happy Thanksgiving everyone!

Kris Jenner took to Instagram to share a throwback snap of the entire brood together on the holiday.

The 63-year-old momager wrote: 'Happy Thanksgiving Guys!!! I am so thankful for all of you. Thank you for all of your love and support always... what a gift life is.

'Enjoy every precious moment.... I am so thankful for and cherish these 6 amazing blessings and all of my beautiful grandchildren... I give thanks to God every single day. I love you'

No doubt Kim Kardashian is prepping herself for a big night of eating as she took to her Instagram Stories to share a video of herself getting a bike ride in.

Yum: Kylie later took to Instagram Story to show off their meal preparation

What's cookin'? The mother-of-three showed off the turkey and ham in the oven

Before the rise: There were also dishes of cornbreads set to be placed in the oven

A female companion said something to Kim to which she responded: 'I'm trying. Don't distract me. Happy Thanksgiving everyone!

Later on in the day Kourtney shared Instagram Story videos of their meal preparations.

The mother-of-three showed off the turkey and ham in the oven and cornbread sitting out before cooking as she bragged about her pancake-making skills.

Kylie even gave joined in on the fun as her 39-year-old half sister shared a video of her working on the candied yams.

Helping hand: Kourtney Kardashian shared this video of Kylie preparing the candied yams

Finishing touches: Kylie said that marshmallow will be the last thing put on the dish

Meanwhile their sister Khloe Kardashian is nearly on the other side of the country as she took baby True to Cleveland to spend the holiday with Tristan Thompson.

The 34-year-old gave a sneak peek inside their celebration with fans on Instagram.

Tristan also documented part of the day on an Instagram live video. Khloe was dressed in a stylish pink and purple outfit, but appeared subdued.

She had earlier told fans that she had spent the morning 'cooking my heart out' and dubbed herself 'Chef Koko'.

Putting on a brave face: The mother-of-one appeared subdued while Tristan filmed her. The star is said to be struggling with what to do about her relationship with the NBA star

Put her daughter first: Khloe Kardashian took daughter True to Cleveland to spend Thanksgiving with Tristan Thompson

====== 144 ========

TARAJI P HENSON SAYS IT WAS 'ON THE BUCKET LIST' TO STAR IN A DISNEY MOVIE

Taraji P. Henson says it was a 'no-brainer' to accept a role in new Disney animated movie Ralph Breaks The Internet.

The 48-year-old Hollywood actress voices the algorithm Yesss - who is responsible for determining the trending videos on Buzz Video - in the sequel to 2012's Wreck It Ralph - and she instantly knew she wanted to be part of the project because being in a Disney film was on her 'bucket list'.

Speaking at a press conference in Los Angeles, Taraji said: 'Voicing a character in a Disney animated film? I can check that off the bucket list, thank you. I just thought she was incredible.

Goal achieved: Taraji P Henson says it was 'on the bucket list' to star in a Disney movie as she voices character in Ralph Breaks the Internet

'When Rich [Moore] and Phil [Johnston] brought her to me and explained her, I was like, "This is a no-brainer." She's a go-getter. She's the head of a company.

'She's no-nonsense. She has heart. My favorite scene is when Ralph finds himself in the comment room, and she comes in and tells him, "It's not you, it's them. They're mean. They're hurt, so they're hurting you."

'It grounded the film and the character for me, and it made her multi-dimensional. And then, I got to voice her with amazing actors. It was just a no-brainer for me.'

'Go-getter': Taraji's character Yesss is seen, center, in a still from Ralph Breaks The Internet

Ralph Breaks the Internet sees John C. Reilly return as the titular character, Sarah Silverman back as Vanellope von Schweetz and Jack McBrayer reprising his part as Fix-It Felix Jr.

Speaking about the plot of the new movie, Moore - who co-directs with Johnston - added: 'This time, Ralph's wrecking wreaks havoc on the Web - as only he can do. Characters we loved in the first film are back and we are ecstatic to be working with them - and the actors who voice them - once again.'

====== 145 ========

LORD OF THE DANCE STAR MICHAEL FLATLEY AND HIS WIFE NIAMH O'BRIEN ATTEND LAVISH DINNER

He decided to dramatically drop the price of his stately home on the market despite splashing the cash on renovating it after he failed to sell the property in 2015.

But Michael Flatley didn't let it dampen his spirits when he enjoyed the evening with Niamh O'Brien at the Irish Post VIP Business Gala dinner on Thursday.

The Lord Of The Dance sensation, 60, proudly paraded his elegant younger wife, 44, on his arm when they made their entrance to the star-studded bash.



Keep on dancing: The Lord Of The Dance star Michael Flatley and his wife Niamh O'Brien looked more in love than ever as they attended a lavish dinner, in London on Thursday

Michael dressed down his two-piece suit and shiny shoes by wearing his bow tie loose around his neck and the collar to his shirt unbuttoned.

Niamh oozed sophistication in her floor-length dress which had an exquisite colourful pattern to catch the eye.

The dancer styled her blonde bob in coiffed curls, she applied a red lip and toted a clutch with a golden clasp to add the finishing touches of her look.

Michael and Niamh proved the fire of their love burned brightly still after all this time as they cuddled up to each other at the event.

Dazzling duo: The Lord Of The Dance sensation proudly paraded his elegant wife on his arm when they made their entrance to the star-studded bash

They embarked on a whirlwind romance in 2006 when they decided to get married four months after they started dating and their son Michael Jr was born a year later.

The happy couple tied the knot in a romantic ceremony in October and they hosted their reception at Castlehyde.

Michael bid farewell to the stage in 2016 after he took the world by storm with his Irish dancing skills on The Lord Of The Dance.

Perfect pair: Michael and Niamh proved the fire of their love burned brightly still after all this time as they cuddled up to each other at the event

The dancer decided it was time to make another change in June earlier this year when he put his luxurious Irish mansion Castle Hyde back on the market.

Castle Hyde was listed for $14.5 Million (£11 million) after it failed to sell at $23.2 million (£17.6 million) in 2015.

The price was reduced by 36 per cent, despite Michael spending about $35 million (£26.6 million) on rennovations.

Lord Of The Dance star Michael has spent 20 years living in the home he bought for $4.6 million (£3.4 million) in 1999.

Ravishing in red: Claire Sweeney looked incredibly leggy in her thigh-split scarlet dress as she attended the glamorous event among the stars

For the frill of it: A statement ruffle was stitched into the right shoulder of the floor-length dress which ensured all eyes were on Claire

The professional dancer's palatial home was first built in the 1700s, before being extended in 1801.

Speaking to The Wall Street Journal about the reduction, Michael said: 'I don't mind taking the cut because I spent 20 of the best years of my life in that house.'

Michael, who has a net worth of $350 million (£266.6 million), explained he decided to sell the house after purchasing a mansion in London's extravagant Belgravia.

The star has an extensive property portfolio which includes homes in Barbados and Monaco.

====== 146 ========

MARGOT ROBBIE FILMS NEW ROGER AILES MOVIE

It's already one of the most widely anticipated movies of next year, with a star-studded cast and controversial story-line.

And Margot Robbie was spotted on the set of the upcoming flick about Roger Ailes - the disgraced former boss of Fox News.

The 28-year-old actress was seen making a phone call as she filmed scenes in downtown Los Angeles on Wednesday.

She plays Kayla Pospisil, a fictional associate producer for Fox News.

Filming: Margot Robbie was spotted on the set of the upcoming flick about Roger Ailes - the disgraced former boss of Fox News

The Wolf of Wolf Street beauty flashed her legs in a knee-skimming flared skirt, and black heels.

Her blonde tresses were loose, with a braid pinned around the side.

She is seen looking nervous as she makes a phone call, outside in the street - which is meant to look like New York City.

In character: The 28-year-old actress was seen making a phone call as she filmed scenes in downtown Los Angeles on Wednesday

The film - said to be called Fair and Balanced, boasts an all-star cast that includes John Lithgow as Roger Ailes and Nicole Kidman as Gretchen Carlson.

Charlize Theron is playing Meghan Kelly and is also producing the film.

Connie Britton, Allison Janney and Kate McKinnon are all set to co-star in the upcoming Jay Roach-directed film, about the women who decide to take on the Fox News boss and the toxic male culture which presided.

As chairman of the network, Ailes helped launch the careers of Kelly and Carlson.

Unrecognisable: Margot also wears a number of prosthetic scars for her forthcoming role as Elizabeth First

However, as several reports of Ailes' sexual misconduct toward Kelly, Carlson and more surfaced, the powerful media mogul was forced to resign in 2016.

Meanwhile, Margot is also promoting her role as Elizabeth First in period drama Mary Queen of Scots with Saoirse Ronan, as well as many films in which she'll reprise her role as the villainous Harley Quinn, including The Lego Movie 2: The Second Part, Birds of Prey (And The Fantabulous Emancipation of One Harley Quinn) and an untitled project featuring Quinn and the Joker.

She is also set to reunite with Leonardo DiCaprio for Quentin Tarantino's Once Upon a Time in Hollywood.

====== 147 ========

SPIDER-MAN STAR TOM HOLLAND TRIES THANKSGIVING PUMPKIN FOR THE FIRST TIME AT AGE 22

Spider-Man sensation Tom Holland had his first taste of Thanksgiving pumpkin in newly-released footage from the kitchen of new LA restaurant Simone on November 12.

The 22-year-old Englishman and his Avengers: Infinity War director Joe Russo sampled Simone owner Jessica Largey's dish featuring kabocha squash, chanterelle mushrooms, passionfruit, and kale.

'It's hard that I'm starting with probably the best pumpkin I'll ever have,' the Current War actor told the AP of the Japanese pumpkin.

Trying new things! Spider-Man sensation Tom Holland (R) had his first taste of Thanksgiving pumpkin in newly-released footage from the kitchen of new LA restaurant Simone on November 12

Try it! The 22-year-old Englishman and his Avengers: Infinity War director Joe Russo (M) sampled Simone owner Jessica Largey's (L) dish featuring kabocha squash, chanterelle mushrooms, passionfruit, and kale

'That's so good, the passionfruit as well, and the kale is crunchy so there's a nice like textural thing. That was delicious. So, I'll come back tomorrow!'

Tom and the 47-year-old Emmy winner were taking a cooking class with Largey, whose restaurant opened September 20 in downtown LA's Arts District.

Holland - who had tasted pumpkin seeds before - typically spends Thanksgivings in his native United Kingdom.

The former West End thespian has a unique way of cooking one of his favorite comfort food recipes - macaroni and cheese - using a mug of cheese, basil, tomato sauce, rigatoni, and more cheese.

The Current War actor told the AP: 'That's so good, the passionfruit as well, and the kale is crunchy so there's a nice like textural thing. That was delicious. So, I'll come back tomorrow!'

Boss lady: Tom and the 47-year-old Emmy winner were taking a cooking class with Largey, whose restaurant opened September 20 in downtown LA's Arts District

'That's my go-to!' Holland has a unique way of cooking one of his favorite comfort food recipes - macaroni and cheese - using a mug of cheese, basil, tomato sauce, rigatoni, and more cheese

'You put a plate on, flip it that way and bake it,' the Pilgrimage star explained.

'Then you take it off and you have a pasta pie - it's really good and it's super easy to do and it looks way more impressive than it actually is. That's my go-to.'

Tom next resumes his role as Peter Parker/Spider-Man in the fourth Avengers flick helmed by the Russo Brothers, which hits UK theaters April 26 and US theaters May 3.

====== 148 ========

PRINCE CHARLES AND CAMILLA ATTEND ASCOT PRINCE'S COUNTRYSIDE FUND RACING WEEKEND

The Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall wore complementary colours as they stepped out for a day at the races on Friday.

Charles and Camilla braved the autumnal chill to take in the action at the Prince's Countryside Fund Racing Weekend at Ascot Racecourse.

The Prince, who celebrated his landmark 70th birthday last week, looked smart in a camel wool coat, while his wife recycled an old tweed number.

Camilla, 71, paired her button-down coat dress with brown suede slouch boots, a polka dot scarf and a cosy fur-trimmed hat.

Complementary colours: Charles and Camilla, pictured, brave the autumnal chill to take in the action at the Prince's Countryside Fund Racing Weekend at Ascot Racecourse on Friday

She completed her look with a dazzling gold brooch, black gloves, a frilled sleeve and a brown leather tote.

The couple appeared to be in high spirits as they arrived at the Berkshire racecourse on Friday morning, later joining jockeys on stage for the prizegiving ceremony.

The Ascot raceday is the a key event in The Prince's Countryside Fund calendar and its biggest fundraising event of the year.

It will see 12 jockeys take on the famous Ascot turf in front of thousands of spectators.

Visitors can also enjoy a Christmas shopping fair featuring independent pop-ups selling food, clothing and gifts.

Twinning! The Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall wear complementary colours as they step out for a day at the races on Friday (pictured at Ascot Racecourse, 23 November)

Matching hues: The Prince, who celebrated his landmark 70th birthday last week, looked smart in a camel wool coat, while his wife recycled an old tweed number

Duchess of style! Camilla, pictured, paired her button-down coat dress with brown suede slouch boots, a polka dot scarf and a cosy fur-trimmed hat at Ascot on Friday

All in the detail: Camilla completed her look at Ascot on Friday 23 November with a dazzling gold brooch, black gloves, a frilled sleeve and a brown leather tote

Friday feeling: The couple appeared to be in high spirits as they arrived at the Berkshire racecourse on Friday morning, later joining jockeys on stage for the prize giving ceremony

Unmissable: The Ascot raceday is the a key event in The Prince's Countryside Fund calendar and its biggest fundraising event of the year (pictured: Charles and Camilla arriving)

The couple's appearance this morning comes after they viewed a portrait of the birthday prince by artist Ralph Heimans at Australia House last night (pictured)

The Grade 2 Coral Ascot Hurdle is the biggest race on the line-up and widely regarded as one of the most important mid-season hurdle races on the Jumps calendar.

Over £1m has been raised at previous The Prince’s Countryside Fund racedays to continue the charity’s work funding projects to support the people who live and work in the countryside.

The couple's appearance this morning comes after they viewed a portrait of the birthday prince by artist Ralph Heimans at Australia House last night.

====== 149 ========

KELLY DODD SAYS VICKI GUNVALSON'S COCAINE ACCUSATIONS HAVE 'DAMAGED' HER REPUTATION

During a sneak peek of the Real Housewives Of Orange County reunion show, Vicki Gunvalson accused Kelly Dodd of doing cocaine.

Accusing Gunvalson of 'character assassination', Dodd, 43, revealed to PEOPLE that Gunvalson's comments have 'damaged' her reputation.

'Now it's out there in the universe. You don't think people are going to be like, "Maybe she does do it?" she told the media outlet. 'This is my life. This is my name. It's like character assassination. It's really hurt me.'

Gossip: During a sneak peek of the Real Housewives Of Orange County reunion show, Vicki Gunvalson accused Kelly Dodd of doing cocaine. And on Wednesday, Dodd, 43, revealed to PEOPLE that Gunvalson's comments have 'damaged' her reputation

Kelly made it clear to PEOPLE that she doesn't 'do drugs.'

'I don't do cocaine,' she said. 'I've seen it ruin families, I've seen it affect people close to me.'

She has also instructed her daughter Jolie, 12, to avoid drugs.

'I'm constantly telling my daughter: "Don't do drugs. Don't even try it. Don't succumb to peer pressure,'" Dodd said. 'I'm very hardcore about it.'

'Now it's out there in the universe. You don't think people are going to be like, "Maybe she does do it?" she told the media outlet. 'This is my life. This is my name. It's like character assassination. It's really hurt me'

Unfortunately, Jolie caught wind of Gunvalson's accusations on social media.

'My daughter doesn't watch the show, but she reads social media,' Kelly explained. 'She's seen what people are saying and it upsets her. I try to be a good example to my daughter.'

Dodd added: 'It hurts my daughter! Vicki is a mother, she should know better.'

Rumor mill: Unfortunately, Kelly's daughter Jolie, 12, caught wind of Gunvalson's accusations on social media. 'My daughter doesn't watch the show, but she reads social media,' Dodd explained. 'She's seen what people are saying and it upsets her'

Gunvalson and Dodd left the reunion 'in a good place,' but Kelly revealed to PEOPLE that she was too quick to 'forgive.'

'I didn't know the repercussions it would have on me and my daughter,' she said. 'I didn't know how damaging it really was. If I knew then what I know now, I would not have forgiven her so quick.'

Kelly won't be returning for season 14, according to social media.

Catch the drama: Part one of RHOC's reunion airs Sunday November 25 on Bravo

'No I can't go back if that liar can just say s**t without consequences the money isn't worth it to me,' she wrote to fans.

'My daughter means more to me than this and [Vicki] is trying to ruin my reputation. Just out of principle I won't go back ! They can pick the OG I'm out!!'

Part one of RHOC's reunion airs Sunday November 25 on Bravo.

====== 150 ========

SOFIA VERGARA GLITTERS IN GOLD AS SHE SPENDS THANKSGIVING WITH HUSBAND JOE MANGANIELLO AND FRIENDS

Sofia Vergara spent Thanksgiving with her loved ones, sharing new photos of herself alongside her husband Joe Manganiello and son Manolo.

The 46-year-old Modern Family star took to Instagram a number of times throughout the day, after celebrating her wedding anniversary to Manganiello.

The couple got together with Vergara's sister Claudia Veragara, her uncle Hernando Vergara, her friends Franz Serrano Evers and Giselle Lafurie.

Thanksgiving fun: Sofia Vergara and husband Joe Manganiello celebrated Thanksgiving with friends in Los Angeles on Thursday

Vergara sizzled in a gold strapless top, black pants and black shoes.

She was also wearing a pair of elaborate earrings and a few rings, while posting a boomerang video of her walking by the dinner table.

While there are no photos of their Thanksgiving spread, Vergara and Manganiello were surrounded by friends and family all day.

Dinner time: She was also wearing a pair of elaborate earrings and a few rings, while posting a boomerang video of her walking by the dinner table

Vergara and Manganiello started dating in July 2014, just a few months after she called off her engagement to then-boyfriend Nicholas M. Loeb.

After dating for just six months, Vergara and Manganiello became engaged on Christmas Day in 2014.

They got married in November 2015 in Palm Beach, Florida.

Sister time: Vergara and Manganiello got together with Vergara's sister Claudia Veragara, her uncle Hernando Vergara, her friends Franz Serrano Evers and Giselle Lafurie

Vergara is currently filming the 10th and final season of her hit sitcom Modern Family, which ends its run this May.

She has also starred in two movies this year, The Con Is On and Bent, with two more movies coming in 2019 and beyond.

The actress stars alongside her husband Joe Manganiello for the first time in Stano, and she also voices Zaina in the animated movie Koati.

Vergara's family: Claudia Vergara poses with Manolo Vergara and Hernando Vergara

Vergara also has the distinction of being the highest paid actress, for the seventh time in a row.

Forbes reported in October that her whopping $42.5 million haul in 2018, which includes her salary from Modern Family along with a slew of endorsement deals.

The actress has inked deals with SharkNinja Coffee and furniture chain Rooms To Go to endorse their products.

====== 151 ========

QUEEN MATHILDE OF BELGIUM STEPS OUT WITH KING PHILLIPE IN BERLIN WEARING STYLISH CHECKED DRESS

Queen Mathilde of Belgium looked a vision of sophistication as she joined husband King Philippe for a visit to Berlin today.

The mother-of-four stepped out in a flattering, calf-length checked black, white and maroon tweed coat dress with button and belt detail that cinched her in at the waist.

Mathilde, 45, completed the look with an elegant burgundy hat and matching suede clutch bag and leather gloves - which she removed to shake hands with those who welcomed her.

The royals were welcomed to Berlin by the German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier and his wife Elke, as they marked the centenary of the end of the First World War.

The Belgian Queen looked as stylish as always as she and King Philippe were welcomed to Berlin by German federal President Frank-Walter Steinmeier (right) and his wife Elke (left)

German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier and his wife Elke stopped for an official photo before walking up the stairs to Bellevue Pallace

Mathilde and husband Philippe, 58, were greeted by German federal President Frank-Walter Steinmeier and his wife Elke Buedenbender as they arrived in the German capital.

They looked in high spirits as they inspected the guard of honour outside Bellevue Palace ahead of the commemorative occasion.

Wife of the German Present, Elke Buedenbender, and Mathilde were all smiles earlier today. The 45-year-old completed her look with burgundy accessories, which included a hat, gloves and clutch bag

The visit to Berlin was mark the 100th anniversary of the end of the First World War

Mathilde and King Phillipe were seen inspecting the guard of honour outside Bellevue Palace ahead of today's meeting in the German capital

The German President's wife Elke, dressed suited to the weather in a smart navy two-piece with a statement red jumper underneath. She completed the look with a pearl necklace.

Mathilde and Phillipe have had a busy month of engagements after hosting a lavish state banquet at the Royal Castle in Laeke for French President Emmanuel Macron and wife Brigette, 65, on their state visit to Belgium on Tuesday.

Emmanuel Macron (second from left) was on an official state visit to Belgium with the First Lady, Brigitte (right), and the couple were joined by King Philippe and Queen Mathilde at a working breakfast on Tuesday

Queen Mathilde chose an elegant off-the-shoulder long-sleeved black gown for the occasion, which was overlaid by a royal red sash which was held in place by a pin at the side. The elegant ensemble was completed with a satin burgundy clutch, dazzling tiara and dangling sparkly earrings.

Meanwhile, France's First Lady, 65, opted for a custom long-sleeved gown by Louis Vuitton, which had a glitzy sequinned collar and waistband. She accessorised with a simple black clutch and pointed pumps.

====== 152 ========

HOW THE DUCHESS GETS TOP DESIGNERS TO TWEAK HER OUTFITS JUST FOR HER

For Duchesses with royal budgets at their disposal, the fashion world is your dressing-up box.

So when the Duchess of Cambridge graced an awards ceremony earlier this month, she inevitably looked stunning in a flowing Jenny Packham gown.

Yet eagle-eyed fashion insiders spotted something striking about her look. No, not the fact that she had worn the same teal chiffon six years ago to a concert at the Royal Albert Hall.

Rather, it was yet another example of the clever way that Kate’s dresses are adapted from the catwalk to make them suitable for a future queen.

The original Jenny Packham, for example, features chiffon panels that plunge from the shoulders to join at the waist, with a sexy lace bodice on show.

In Kate’s version, the chiffon panels meet much higher up for a primmer neckline, with only a hint of lace at the bust.

While Kate patronises some of Britain’s leading designers, edgy clothes that catch the eye on the catwalk rarely meet the exacting standards of the royal dress code.

The British Royal Family is said to abide by a very specific style guide which rules out inappropriately short skirts, day dresses that are too long, anything too flashy or flamboyant, slits that gape if you bend or sit down, and fabrics that crease.

Clothes also need to stand up to scrutiny from every angle, so they need to look appropriate from the back and sides, as well as the front.

And adapting dresses is something the Duchess of Cambridge has done since soon after her marriage to Prince William in 2011.

Since 2014, her personal assistant/stylist Natasha Archer has made the sartorial decisions about Kate’s wardrobe. She has worked with the Royal Family for years, first as a personal assistant, before she became style adviser to Kate. She knows the rules and what is suitable better than anyone.

She is the one who has to reconcile Kate’s position as the wife of the second-in-line to the throne, with her status as a style icon.

Perhaps because of Kate’s position, unlike Meghan’s team she doesn’t push fashion boundaries.

As catwalk shows work almost a year ahead of production, Natasha will look through the season ahead, choosing styles/prints/patterns that are suitable, then discuss with Kate before designers are contacted.

Small changes, such as sewing up a plunging neckline like the adjustment to Kate’s Jenny Packham, are likely to be made by Natasha.

More fundamental changes to a design happen at the design house that made the piece.

It’s a collaborative effort, to ensure the design is preserved but royal modesty met and will cost more than buying ready-to-wear off-the-peg outfits.

Here, we investigate how the frocks have transformed from catwalk to Kate . . .

How to avoid a sheer lip-up?

On a tour of South-East Asia, Kate chooses an oriental-print dress in soft tone colours for an engagement in Singapore. The floaty dress seems to be adapted from the Meryl dress from Erdem’s Spring/Summer 2012 collection. Both have the same pattern, pleating and waist detail, but while the original dress is sleeveless and sheer, Kate’s has a wider neckline, revealing her collarbones, and chiffon sleeves to give a softer look. Kate’s white slip also changes the background colour, making the print stronger and more vibrant. Her version is a winner.

On a tour of South-East Asia, Kate chooses an oriental-print dress in soft tone colours for an engagement in Singapore. The floaty dress seems to be adapted from the Meryl dress from Erdem’s Spring/Summer 2012 collection. Both have the same pattern, pleating and waist detail, but while the original dress is sleeveless and sheer, Kate’s has a wider neckline, revealing her collarbones, and chiffon sleeves to give a softer look. Kate’s white slip also changes the background colour, making the print stronger and more vibrant. Her version is a winner.

Bring back the belt, Kate

For the Queen’s 90th Birthday Commonwealth service in March 2016, Kate favours a £2,500 grey coat by Erdem, a bespoke version based on one from the London label’s Pre-Fall 2015 collection. It has a tiny checked background with lace-effect print overlay. Her design has removed much-needed detailing and, although it’s less fussy, Kate’s stripped-back design ends up looking like a rather boring overcoat. The grey, with charcoal overlay, just isn’t exciting enough to carry such a basic design. Bring back the belt and the lapels for a stylish look.

Bye-bye sexy Bodice

On a seven-day tour to India and Bhutan in April 2016, Kate looks stunning in Temperley London’s Desdemona design for a lunch with the Indian prime minister. The jade dress is 100 per cent cotton, with a high neck, fitted waist, fluted hem and cotton voile pleats. But the original has a bodice that’s predominantly sheer — far too risque for Kate — so a modesty panel has been added across the bust, and the underskirt lengthened so it’s only sheer from the knee down.

It turns an overtly sexy dress in to something classy and respectable.

Min-dress? Not any more

In September 2016, while on tour in Canada, Kate wears a bespoke Alexander McQueen design adapted from a dress from the Resort 2017 collection. The original version was a tiered mini-dress with cropped bell sleeves, but Kate’s version, which she wore for a visit to Vancouver with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, features a skirt lengthened by up to 10in, so it stops just above the knee rather than mid-thigh. Voluminous tiered sleeves are replaced by full-length ones, finished with white cuffs. This safer, more sophisticated choice gives the Duchess a much smarter and more business-like silhouette

When Lacy is far from racy

For last week’s Tusk Conservation Awards, Kate chooses a Jenny Packham gown she first wore to the Royal Albert Hall in May 2012.

The teal gown features an embellished belt and a plunging neckline, but it’s not as daring as the catwalk version.

Compared to the original, Kate’s is much more conservative — and a much more striking colour. It has been stitched up to give a peek-a-boo of detail rather than a full lace bodice.

For last week’s Tusk Conservation Awards, Kate chooses a Jenny Packham gown she first wore to the Royal Albert Hall in May 2012. The teal gown features an embellished belt and a plunging neckline, but it’s not as daring as the catwalk version. Compared to the original, Kate’s is much more conservative — and a much more striking colour. It has been stitched up to give a peek-a-boo of detail rather than a full lace bodice

No Knees please, I'm royal

Heavily pregnant and hosting the Commonwealth Fashion Exchange Reception at Buckingham Palace in February, Kate’s re-design of Erdem’s Suzi Guipure lace dress is lengthened to mid-calf — the length to be seen in this season. The original is far too short for a future queen!

Daring cut-out vanishes

For her first engagement after her latest maternity leave, Kate chooses grey tweed Erdem for the launch of a photography exhibition at London’s V&A Museum in October. The catwalk version includes a risque cut-away detail in the designer’s spring/summer 18 collection. Kate’s has the keyhole detail removed and a plum belt added, ensuring her midriff is covered up.

Game sit and match

In July 2016, Kate Middleton watched Andy Murray win the men’s final at Wimbledon wearing another Alexander McQueen dress. The original design is far too short for a Royal to sit in. Kate’s version falls to below the knee.

PICTURE RESEARCH: Claire Cisotti

====== 153 ========

PHOTOGRAPHER DARRYN LYONS SAYS OFFICIAL DETAILS OF PRINCESS DIANA'S DEATH MAY NOT BE 'THE TRUTH'

Darryn Lyons has raised fresh doubts about the official details of the death of Princess Diana, saying he has 'huge questions' about what happened in the infamous Paris car crash.

The former king of the paparazzi told The Daily Telegraph that the official account of her tragic 1997 accident, 'isn't necessarily the truth.'

The 53-year-old told the paper: 'Everyone says it was a tragic accident... some very strange things happened that night and I was a part of many of the strange things that happened that night.'

'I was a part of many of the strange things that happened that night': Photographer Darryn Lyons (pictured) says the official details of Princess Diana's death aren't 'necessarily the truth'

The former head of Big Pictures photo agency, which used paparazzi photos said he 'fears' what he makes public as he went through some 'some very funny things' after Diana's passing.

However Darryn admits he has 'no proof that the Princess of Wales was murdered'.

'I don't think we'll ever get to the bottom of the truth of the story. I don't even think her sons know .... they would have been told the story but it isn't necessarily the truth,' he said.

The flamboyant photographer said the princess' death was the 'most traumatic' moment in his life, in his column in The Geelong Advertiser.

Claims: The infamous paparazzo has told The Daily Telegraph that the official account of her tragic 1997 accident, 'isn't necessarily the truth'. He goes on to say he 'fears' for what he says as he went through some 'some very funny things' during his involvement after Diana's passing

He claims 'hell broke loose' after the 1997 crash in a Paris road tunnel which left photographers locked up, offices raided and papers were seized.

'I feel lucky I wasn't killed in all the cloak-and-dagger stuff that was going on at the time,' he wrote.

'There were death threats against me, and my staff were abused on the street. The aggression shocked me.'

The 53-year-old said: 'Everyone says it was a tragic accident... some very strange things happened that night and I was a part of many of the strange things that happened that night'. Pictured in 1996

Darryn, who was accused of selling photos of dead Princess Diana through his company Big Pictures, said his office was raided and his phone lines were tapped.

The situation escalated when the former mayor of Geelong, Victoria, heard a ticking noise believed to be an explosive device in his office which had no power but surrounding buildings did.

Princess Diana suffered fatal injuries and died along with her boyfriend Dodi Fayed and her driver and security guard Henri Paul on August 31, 1997.

Tragic: Princess Diana suffered fatal injuries and died along with her boyfriend Dodi Fayed and her driver and security guard Henri Paul on August 31, 1997. Pictured: Aftermath of the accident 1997

Controversy: Darryn, who was accused of selling photos of dead Princess Diana through his company Big Pictures, said his office was raided and his phone lines were tapped. Pictured: Aftermath of the accident 1997

No evidence: Darryn admits he has 'no proof that the Princess of Wales was murdered'. Pictured in 1987

An inquest, which Darryn gave evidence in, was held in London and ended in 2008.

It found Princess Diana died unlawfully, blaming negligent driving by Henri Paul affected by paparazzi, which contributed to the crash.

Darryn's photographer in Paris, Laurent Sola, took photos of the late princess dead in her car, which he still owns.

However the gallery owner said he has not sold the photos and never will despite once being offered a quarter of a million pounds ($444K AUD) by British and American news publications.

====== 154 ========

GWEN STEFANI AND BEAU BLAKE SHELTON COOK A FLAMIN' HOT CHEETOS TURKEY FOR THANKSGIVING IN OKLAHOMA

Pop diva Gwen Stefani and her country-crooning beau Blake Shelton celebrated Thanksgiving on Thursday with her family at their 1,200-acre, lakeside ranch home in Tishomingo.

Among the down-home delicacies served at the Stefani-Shelton residence was a Flamin' Hot Cheetos-crusted and stuffed turkey.

The 49-year-old OC native squealed 'what is wrong with you?' upon seeing the bright orange bird, which was roasted in honor of her 10-year-old son Zuma Nesta Rock.

Cheers! Pop diva Gwen Stefani and her country-crooning beau Blake Shelton celebrated Thanksgiving with her family at their 1,200-acre, lakeside ranch home in Tishomingo

'Oh my gosh! Oh my gosh!' Among the down-home delicacies served at the Stefani-Shelton residence was a Flamin' Hot Cheetos-crusted and stuffed turkey

Meanwhile, the Oklahoma-born 42-year-old took charge of the second turkey, which was seasoned then smoked in his backyard.

The three-time Grammy winner - who boasts 17.8M social media followers - made sure to Insta-story all of the festive family action including her niece Madelyn and sister Jill.

Also there were Gwen's two sons - Apollo Bowie-Flynn, 4; and Kingston James McGregor, 12; - from her 13-year marriage to Bush frontman Gavin Rossdale, who was in Moscow.

'They are in the final stages of choosing the woman [surrogate] who will carry their baby,' a source claimed to Us Weekly on November 14.

Doting mom: The 49-year-old OC native squealed 'what is wrong with you?' upon seeing the bright orange bird, which was roasted in honor of her 10-year-old son Zuma Nesta Rock (R)

Here comes the chef! Meanwhile, the Oklahoma-born 42-year-old took charge of the second turkey, which was seasoned then smoked in his backyard

With her niece Madelyn (L): Stefani and Shelton - who fell in love on NBC's The Voice - have been practically inseparable ever since they finally confirmed their relationship in 2015

'It's extremely important to Gwen that she give Blake a biological child, and Blake is so excited. He wants his own child too.'

Stefani and Shelton - who fell in love on NBC's The Voice - have been practically inseparable ever since they finally confirmed their relationship in 2015.

The former No Doubt frontwoman also shared footage of food selections such as four pies and baked mac and cheese.

The L.A.M.B designer - who posed with her Yamaha marketing executive father Dennis - bundled up in an upside-down cross sweater, denim mini-skirt, black tights, and white boots.

Dad is in Moscow: Also there were Gwen's two sons - Apollo Bowie-Flynn (L), 4; and Kingston James McGregor (R), 12; - from her 13-year marriage to Bush frontman Gavin Rossdale

Pumpkin! The three-time Grammy winner also shared footage of food selections such as four pies and baked mac and cheese

With her father Dennis (R): The L.A.M.B designer bundled up in an upside-down cross sweater, denim mini-skirt, black tights, and white boots

'I'm thankful for the food, people I love,' twice-divorced Blake gushed in The Voice's Insta-story.

'I'm thankful to be on the show with my good friend J-Hud. What else am I thankful for? God and country music!'

The six-time Voice champ and Jennifer Hudson currently coach the 15th season of the NBC singing competition, which airs Mondays and Tuesdays.

Twice-divorced Blake gushed in The Voice's Insta-story: 'I'm thankful for the food, people I love. I'm thankful to be on the show with my good friend J-Hud. What else am I thankful for? God and country music!'

'Live Top 11 Performances': The six-time Voice champ and Jennifer Hudson (R) currently coach the 15th season of the NBC singing competition, which airs Mondays and Tuesdays

On Tuesday, the showbiz couple debuted their music video for their 2017 duet You Make It Feel Like Christmas, which is off her fourth studio album of the same name.

Gwen will next perform José Feliciano's 1970 Christmas classic Feliz Navidad in The Wonderful World of Disney: Magical Holiday Celebration, which airs November 29 on ABC.

The Sleeping Beauty castle lighting spectacular also features Meghan Trainor, Andrea Bocelli, Sarah Hyland, Jordan Fisher, Maddie Poppe, and Aloe Blacc.

PDA: On Tuesday, the showbiz couple debuted their music video for their 2017 duet You Make It Feel Like Christmas, which is off her fourth studio album of the same name

====== 155 ========

TWELVE-PERSON TEAM BEHIND PRINCESS EUGENIE'S WEDDING PORTRAITS

Princess Eugenie's wedding photographer has revealed the 12-person team behind the couple's jaw-dropping portraits.

Fashion snapper Alex Bramall shared a previously unseen image of newlyweds Eugenie and Jack Brooksbank at Windsor Castle on 12 October, tagging the 12-person squad who helped to make the shoot happen.

It includes creative director Patrick Kinmonth, set designer Matthew Duguid, producer Stephanie Rutherford, lighting director Michael Furlonger, photographer John Munro, and production agency Art Post.

Bramall also personally thanked photographers Aitor Santomé, Lucy Birkhead, Robert Self and Teän Roberts and 'Jimmy' in the snap posted to Instagram on Thursday night, although it is not clear what their exact involvement was with the shoot.

Princess Eugenie and Jack Brooksbank are pictured embracing in front of a portrait of Prince Albert in one of Windsor Castle's grand reception rooms after their 12 October wedding. The couple's wedding photographer has revealed there were 12 people behind their portraits

The team includes creative director Patrick Kinmonth, set designer Matthew Duguid, producer Stephanie Rutherford, lighting director Michael Furlonger, photographer John Munro, and production agency Art Post

The couple are pictured embracing in front of a portrait of Prince Albert in one of Windsor Castle's grand reception rooms.

Jack has his arms placed gently around his wife's waist, while Eugenie rests her left hand on his chest.

Eugenie also shared the wedding portrait last night, gushing over her star-studded big day in a 'throwback' post shared on Instagram - calling it 'the greatest day of my life'.

The image was met with widespread excitement from Eugenie's nearly 600,000 Instagram followers, racking up nearly 60,000 likes in under an hour.

The couple, who first met in Verbier in 2010, tied the know in front of a star-studded congregation on 12 October.

Radiant: The couple have already released a handful of photos from the day, including this one capturing them in their evening looks. Eugenie wore a stunning blush pink Zac Posen gown

Princess Eugenie and Jack Brooksbank, who first met in Verbier in 2010, tied the know in front of a star-studded congregation on 12 October at St. George's Chapel, Windsor Castle

Robbie Wililams' daughter Teddy was a bridesmaid while models Kate Moss, Poppy and Cara Delevingne and Naomi Campbell were among the congregation, alongside Demi Moore, Stephen Fry and Jamie Redknapp.

After lunch hosted by the Queen, the couple celebrated into the small hours at a party at her family home, The Royal Lodge at Windsor.

Next day there was more partying, at a fairground-themed bash complete with rides and food stalls.

The newlyweds have kept a low-profile since, only being seen together at Prince Charles' 70th birthday party at Buckingham Palace last week.

Eugenie, 28, was previously photographed by Bramall when she posed for a shoot with Harper's Bazaar US in 2016.

Bramall, who has previously worked with the likes of Keira Knightley, Alexa Chung and supermodel Natalia Vodianova, described it as a 'honour and privilege' to be chosen for the job.

He said in a statement at the time: 'It is an honour and a privilege to be invited to photograph Princess Eugenie and Jack on this most special of days.

'I look forward with great excitement to capturing this significant occasion and wish them both a happy future together.'

Alex began his career at the art department of British Vogue, before setting up his own studio in 2014.

Since then, his work has been published internationally in titles such as Vogue, Vanity Fair, Harper’s Bazaar and Porter Magazine.

====== 156 ========

VANDERPUMP RULES STAR KRISTEN DOUTE SLAMS 'GARBAGE' JAMES KENNEDY

Kristen Doute suffered through a tumultuous relationship with James Kennedy during the third and fourth seasons of Vanderpump Rules.

And while the 35-year-old has since moved on with photographer Brian Carter, she has no plans to bury the hatchet with her ex any time soon.

Speaking exclusively to Daily Mail Australia, the reality star vowed to 'take down' James and said that viewers will see his true colours on the upcoming seventh season of Vanderpump Rules.

Unfiltered: Kristen Doute vowed to 'take down' ex-boyfriend James Kennedy and said that viewers will see his true colours on the upcoming seventh season of Vanderpump Rules

'I love to take down the bad guy and I will stop at nothing, so sorry James Kennedy!' she said.

'He is my target and I will continue to make him my target until all is well in the world,' she continued. 'Until girls are no longer called fat and bad names.

'Just the way that he treats human beings in general, I just think that he's such garbage.'

'I just think that he's such garbage': The 35-year-old reality star didn't hold back when talking about the DJ (pictured)

The leggy brunette said that she has the DJ blocked on forms of social media and that she refuses to even be in the same restaurant as him.

'He's such a bad, bad person,' she said. 'There have been times where his stupidity and ego can be entertaining [on the show], but I feel like and I really hope that everyone changes their mind this season.

'James digs so deep that he wants to hurt people, and that's another kind of evil.'

'I don't know if she's as dumb as I think she is, or if she just doesn't care that James is a terribly lying cheating human': Kristen also took a swipe at James' current girlfriend, model Raquel Leviss (far right)

James who? Kristen is currently dating photographer Brian Carter, who will appear alongside on the upcoming seventh season of Vanderpump Rules

Kristen also took a swipe at James' current girlfriend, model Raquel Leviss.

'I don't know if she's as dumb as I think she is, or if she just doesn't care that James is a terribly lying cheating human who says horrible things to women,' she said.

'Or if she actually thinks he's that cool and believes him, their whole dynamic is just super odd to me.

True love: Kristen is currently in Australia with her boyfriend Carter (L) for a romantic holiday and to promote the upcoming season of Vanderpump Rules

'I just pray and I hope that viewers change their mind about him this season.'

Kristen is currently in Australia with her boyfriend Carter for a romantic holiday and to promote the upcoming season of Vanderpump Rules.

Vanderpump Rules season 7 streams Tuesdays from December 4, same day as the US on Foxtel and hayu.

====== 157 ========

KYLIE JENNER SMOLDERS IN CAGED DRESS AND SKINTIGHT NUDE ENSEMBLE TO TEASE 2019 CALENDAR

Her annual calendar drops on Friday.

And on Thanksgiving, Kylie Jenner took to Instagram to tease several more shots from the sultry, multi-outfit photoshoot.

The 21-year-old reality star smoldered in a caged sweater dress and donned a skintight, nude ensemble as she emerged from an orange Lamborghini Aventador.

Picture perfect: Kylie Jenner's annual calendar drops on Friday. And on Thanksgiving, the 21-year-old reality star took to Instagram to tease several more shots from the sultry, multi-outfit photoshoot including a caged dress look

Kylie's caged mini dress featured long sleeves and a body-length zipper.

She paired the revealing ensemble with black underwear pulled above her waistline.

Her glam for the shot included slicked back hair and winged eyeliner.

Dressed to impress: The Kylie Cosmetics founder posed with her orange Lamborghini as she donned a ruched crop top and coordinating high-waisted pants

Bundle of joy: The KUWTK star also shared an adorable photo with daughter Stormi, whose tiny hands were latched onto her mom's bosom

'Thankful': Kylie shared a family portrait with boyfriend Travis Scott in honor of Thanksgiving

The Kylie Cosmetics founder posed with her orange Lamborghini—staring off in the distance as she opened the suicide doors.

She was dressed in a ruched crop top and coordinating high-waisted pants that she teamed with floral pumps.

Jenner's glam for the shot included a curly updo and a rust-colored lip.

The KUWTK star also shared an adorable photo with daughter Stormi, whose tiny hands were latched onto her mom's bosom.

Kylie, who wore her hair in a soft curl, donned a skintight black romper for the black and white series that included a family portrait with boyfriend Travis Scott.

'Thankful,' Jenner captioned the photo of the couple snuggling their firstborn.

Gorgeous in gold: Jenner looked regal in a crown and body-hugging dress for the calendar's front and back cover

Just keep swimming: Kylie wrapped herself in white towels for a post pool photo

Wild thing: The KUWTK star donned an animal-print bodysuit for one of the photos

====== 158 ========

THE LION KING TRAILER: FIRST LOOK AT LIVE-ACTION FILM FEATURING BEYONCE

Disney debuted the first trailer for their new live-action adaptation of The Lion King on Thanksgiving Day.

The trailer (which comes courtesy of Walt Disney Studios YouTube), reveals the first look at the live-action Simba (voiced by Donald Glover) and the live-action Mufasa (voiced by James Earl Jones), debuting during the Thanksgiving day NFL game.

This first look also shows the live-action re-creation of one of the most iconic scenes from the 1994 animated classic, where Rafiki (voiced by John Kani) holds up the newborn Simba for all of the Pride Rock animals to see.

New Simba: Disney unveiled the first trailer for The Lion King during the Thanksgiving day NFL game on Thursday

New Mufasa: The trailer (which comes courtesy of Walt Disney Studios YouTube ), reveals the first look at the live-action Simba (voiced by Donald Glover) and the live-action Mufasa (voiced by James Earl Jones)

New Lion King: This first look also shows the live-action re-creation of one of the most iconic scenes from the 1994 animated classic, where Rafiki (voiced by John Kani) holds up the newborn Simba for all of the Pride Rock animals to see

This live-action version of The Lion King comes from director Jon Favreau, using the same kind of motion-capture technology he used to bring the animals in his 2016 adaptation of The Jungle Book to life.

While this adaptation does boast an impressive new cast, James Earl Jones returns to voice his same role from the 1994 animated classic, King Mufasa.

The trailer begins with various shots of the numerous kinds of animals in Pride Rock, with Mufasa saying that 'Everything the light touches, is our kingdom.'

Future king: This live-action version of The Lion King comes from director Jon Favreau, using the same kind of motion-capture technology he used to bring the animals in his 2016 adaptation of The Jungle Book to life

Same Mufasa: While this adaptation does boast an impressive new cast, James Earl Jones returns to voice his same role from the 1994 animated classic, King Mufasa.

Pride Rock: The trailer begins with various shots of the numerous kinds of animals in Pride Rock, with Mufasa saying that 'Everything the light touches, is our kingdom'

This first look also shows the young Simba stepping into the full-grown paw print of his father Mufasa, as he says that, one day, his reign will come to an end.

'One day, the sun will set on my time here, and will rise with you as the new king,' Mufasa says.

As Simba is held up for all to see, the shot pulls back to show how vast the Pride Rock animal kingdom truly is.

Big paws to fill: This first look also shows the young Simba stepping into the full-grown paw print of his father Mufasa, as he says that, one day, his reign will come to an end

Pride Rock: 'One day, the sun will set on my time here, and will rise with you as the new king,' Mufasa says

Animal Kingdom: As Simba is held up for all to see, the shot pulls back to show how vast the Pride Rock animal kingdom truly is

The all-star cast also includes Seth Rogen as the warthog Pumbaa, Chiwetel Ejiofor as the nefarious lion Scar, Billy Eichner as the wise-cracking meerkat Timon, John Oliver as the hornbill Zasu and Keegan-Michael Key as the hyena Kamari.

The diverse cast is rounded out by Beyonce Knowles-Carter as Simba's friend (and future love interest) Nala and Alfre Woodard as Sarabi, Simba's mother.

The trailer ends with the first look at Mufasa, who is seen roaring at an unseen enemy, perhaps his evil brother Scar.

New cast: The all-star cast also includes Seth Rogen as the warthog Pumbaa, Chiwetel Ejiofor as the nefarious lion Scar, Billy Eichner as the wise-cracking meerkat Timon, John Oliver as the hornbill Zasu and Keegan-Michael Key as the hyena Kamari

All-star cast: The diverse cast is rounded out by Beyonce Knowles-Carter as Simba's friend (and future love interest) Nala and Alfre Woodard as Sarabi, Simba's mother

Mufasa: The trailer ends with the first look at Mufasa, who is seen roaring at an unseen enemy, perhaps his evil brother Scar

Disney has set a July 19, 2019 release date for The Lion King, which is currently the only movie slated for release on that date.

The Lion King is one of 10 movies Disney has slated for release in 2019, which could be the studio's biggest year to date.

Other Disney movies opening next year include Dumbo (March 29), Avengers 4 (May 3, 2019), Toy Story 4 (June 21, 2019) and Star Wars 9 (December 20, 2019).

====== 159 ========

OPRAH ROLLS OUT A HUGE TURKEY FEAST AS STARS SHARE PEEK INSIDE DECADENT THANKSGIVING MEALS

Oprah Winfrey doesn't mess around when it comes to Thanksgiving as she shared a new video of her massive smoked turkey spread on social media.

The TV mogul shared a new video on Instagram, which shows off her incredible Thanksgiving spread that she put together with the help of Chef Kenny Gilbert.

Oprah revealed in her video this is the fourth year in a row the Florida chef has come up to help her with Turkey Day.

Oprah's smoked turkey: Oprah Winfrey takes to Instagram to show off her smoked turkey Thanksgiving spread with Chef Kenny Gilbert.

'Let the games begin! Thank you @chefkennyg @gilberts_uk @gilbertssouthern,' Winfrey said on Instagram.

In the video, she introduces Chef Kenny, who has come four years in a row from Gilbert's Underground Kitchen in Fernandina Beach, Florida.

'This is what we're doing... people please don't go hating, cause I've got a lot of help,' Winfrey said, before showing the three smokers she's using for her holiday dinner.

Thanksgiving Oprah: 'Let the games begin! Thank you @chefkennyg @gilberts_uk @gilbertssouthern,' Winfrey said on Instagram.

'Zoom in, turkey is smoking,' she added, as the video revealed two turkeys in the smoker.

'And all I'm gonna do at the end is add a little garnish,' Winfrey, 64, added.

'The thing is, he comes and smokes my turkey, but he also smokes other people's turkeys,' Winfrey said.

Oprah's Thanksgiving: 'The thing is, he comes and smokes my turkey, but he also smokes other people's turkeys,' Winfrey said

'So next year, if you want to get a turkey from Kenny, you can just order your turkey from Kenny, but right now I have him right here,' she added, as Gilbert started laughing.

'Happy Thanksgiving,' Winfrey concluded, while clapping as the video came to an end.

Winfrey was wearing a white t-shirt which said, 'The future is female' and black pants while donning a pair of sunglasses.

Oprah's turkeys: 'Zoom in, turkey is smoking,' she added, as the video revealed two turkeys in the smoker

Earlier this week, Oprah took to Instagram and Twitter to promote her exclusive interview on her OWN network with Gabrielle Union.

'Look who I got to meet! Little @KaaviaJames, the miracle baby! Kaavia James, you are SO loved by your parents. Couldn’t be happier for @GabUnion and @DwayneWade,' she said.

'I talk with them about their path to parenthood…this conversation is for every parent and anyone who became a family in their own way. Our television exclusive airs on OWN 12/8 at 8/7c,' she added.

Oprah and Kenny: Winfrey was wearing a white t-shirt which said, 'The future is female' and black pants while donning a pair of sunglasses

Oprah isn't the only star to showcase her Turkey Day spread.

Kylie Jenner shared a video on her Instagram story of her massive Thanksgiving spread, which she prepared herself, despite her sister Kourtney Kardashian insisting she learned it from her.

Evan Longoria also shared an adorable video where she's cuddling with her son Santi on his first Thanksgiving.

Julianne Hough also shared her matching Thanksgiving hats with Brooks Laich, while Jennifer Lopez showed boyfriend Alex Rodriguez her Thanksgiving scavenger hunts and Chrissy Teigen showed off her burnt Thanksgiving pie.

Khloe Kardashian also took to her Instagram story to showcase the epic spread she's preparing with Tristan Thompson.

The spread includes a whole counter top full of deserts and sweet treats.

Reese Witherspoon also took to Instagram to showcase a snap of the actress adding some green beans to a plate at her table.

Khloe's Thanksgiving: Khloe Kardashian also took to her Instagram story to showcase the epic spread she's preparing with Tristan Thompson

Khloe's deserts: The spread includes a whole counter top full of deserts and sweet treats

Reese's spread: Reese Witherspoon also took to Instagram to showcase a snap of the actress adding some green beans to a plate at her table

Thankful for mom: The Legally Blonde star also took to her Instagram story to thank her mother Betty

The Legally Blonde star also took to her Instagram story to thank her mother Betty.

Blake Lively decided to add some humor to her Turkey Day, with two shots dubbed Thanksgiving: Expectation vs. Reality.

The 'expectation' shot showed Lively wearing an elaborate and glamorous outfit while holding a wine glass.

The 'reality' shot showed the actress wearing a black tank top and jeans while eating from numerous takeout containers in her car.

Blake's Thanksgiving expectation: The 'expectation' shot showed Lively wearing an elaborate and glamorous outfit while holding a wine glass.

Blake's Thanksgiving reality: The 'reality' shot showed the actress wearing a black tank top and jeans while eating from numerous takeout containers in her car

New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady also took to Instagram to share part of his Thanksgiving spread, including a photo of his daughter eating a large drunmstick.

He shared one photo of the turkey, stating, 'Nope it wasn't me who cooked' along with a shrugging man emoji.

That was followed by a photo of his very full Thanksgiving plate, adding, 'But I ate!!!'

Tom's daughter: New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady also took to Instagram to share part of his Thanksgiving spread, including a photo of his daughter eating a large drunmstick

Tom's bird: He shared one photo of the turkey, stating, 'Nope it wasn't me who cooked' along with a shrugging man emoji

Tom's plate: That was followed by a photo of his very full Thanksgiving plate, adding, 'But I ate!!!'

Demi Lovato also took to her Instagram story with a snap of her spread, captioned, 'Happy Thanksgiving everybody!!!'

Josh Duhamel also added a few videos to his Instagram story of his Thanksgiving spread.

Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani may have the most bizarre celebrity spread, opting for a 'hot cheeto turkey' this year.

Demi's spread: Demi Lovato also took to her Instagram story with a snap of her spread, captioned, 'Happy Thanksgiving everybody!!!'

Josh's spread: Josh Duhamel also added a few videos to his Instagram story of his Thanksgiving spread

====== 160 ========

LILY ALLEN REVEALS SHE GREW A BEARD ON US TOUR AND GOT 'SOME THINGS WRONG' IN HER MEMOIR

She's recently shocked fans with the revelations in her tell-all book, My Thoughts Exactly, in which she recalls hiring female prostitutes, taking drugs and sleeping with married men.

Yet Lily Allen has admitted that she got 'some things wrong' in her memoir as she faced backlash from This Morning fans on Friday's show with a controversial cannabis necklace.

The Smile singer, 33, spoke candidly about her life, and to promote her book, revealing that 'she put on two stone and grew a beard' during her tour in America.

Controversy: Lily Allen was slammed for wearing a cannabis necklace on This Morning on Friday as she discussed weight gain, growing a beard and her regrets over tell-all book

Candid: The Smile singer, 33, was on the hit ITV chat show to talk candidly about her life where she went on to reveal that she put on two stone and grew a beard during her tour in America

Lily was asked whether performing was an escape or chore on tour, to which she said: 'No, it's the best bit, it's the other 22 hours a day when you're waiting around that's the chore. I just got back from America, I just eat, that's basically all I do.

'I go on my phone looking for the best place, I think I have put on two stone in America and grown a beard from all the hormones from the chicken wings I was eating. No, I actually got ill, I had to take steroids... it was either chicken related or steroid related. I haven't figured it out yet.'

Lily went on to reveal her regrets over her explosive memoir, in which she claims that she had sex with Liam Gallagher in a plane toilet, employed female escorts to help her through her marital strife and her dad Keith's 'cocaine-induced' heart attack.

She said: 'Not regrets, but I think there are things that I have got wrong, things I believe are the truth but others have contested... nothing massive, but yeah, there's been some things.'

Candid: She said: 'I just eat, I look on my phone looking for the best place, I have put on two stone and grown a beard from all the hormones I was eating!'

Lily's controversial choice of a cannabis necklace didn't go unnoticed by show watchers at home who took to Twitter to slam the item of jewellery.

One person said: 'Why Lily Allen got that necklace on lol? #thismorning.'

A different user put: 'Also, how is Lily Allen allowed be on #thismorning with a hash leaf necklace on?'

Another show watcher commented: 'What is that look Lily Allen is going for on #thismorning ? she looks b****y ridiculous and is trying way to hard to be edgy with that weed necklace....smh.'

Awkward: Lily's controversial choice of a cannabis necklace didn't go unnoticed by show watchers at home who took to Twitter to slam the item of jewellery

Slammed: While it appeared as though This Morning tried to hide the hash necklace as they put the green banner strategically over the item of jewellery

While it appeared as though This Morning tried to hide the cannabis necklace as they put the green banner strategically over the item of jewellery.

Also during the interview, Lily spoke about whether she likes being 'Lily Allen', she said: 'I love writing songs and being onstage performing them, I like people seemingly get something out my contribution.

'I don’t like the negative stuff, I'm not going to lie, I’m a fighter when I’m backed into a corner, I tend to lash out some people are better at dealing at it than others, I’m not very good at it...'

It's not the first time Lily has been accused of 'glorifying drugs', as the singer has been seen openly speaking of her drug use on social media and within song lyrics.

Explosive: Lily went on to reveal her regrets over her explosive memoir, in which she claims that she had sex with Liam Gallagher in a plane toilet and employed female escorts

Earlier this year, Lily released single Trigger Bang in collaboration with rapper Giggs and the song appeared to be riddled with drug references, with Lily singing about 'fuelling addictions'.

Lyrics include: 'Grab a few grams and a few grand; Wrapped in elastic in the blue bands; Reach for handouts with your two hands; Who's that? We’re the cool gang.'

It later continues: 'When I grew up, nothing changed much; Anything went, I was famous; I would wake up next to strangers; Everyone knows what cocaine does; Numbing the pain when the shame comes, hey.'

A few months later in May, Lily came under fire for re-tweeting pictures of herself being carried out of a glamorous awards ceremony by security guards.

Responding to a tweet that asked for the 'best reasons you've been kicked out of an event', Lily claimed she had 'accidentally taken ketamine', as she penned: 'Someone gave me a line of what I assumed to be cocaine at the Glamour awards once, but it turned out to be Ketamine.

Controversial: It's not the first time Lily has been accused of 'glorifying drugs', as the singer has been seen openly speaking of her drug use on social media and within song lyrics

Open: In May, came under fire for 'glamourising drug use' re-tweeting pictures of herself being carried out of a glamorous awards ceremony by security guards

'I was thrown out (passed over some railings) of the Glamour awards for being in a k hole.'

She revealed how she was taken home in a taxi and has 'no memory' of the journey or returning to her house, but was subject to criticism as many reprimanded the star for 'glamorising' and 'normalising' drug use with her posts.

Back in 2014, Lily joked she was a 'cool mum' after waking up with marijuana stuck to her leg. She penned on Facebook: 'Just woke up and found a bit of hash stuck to my inner thigh #coolmum #thugwyf.'

Meanwhile on This Morning, Lily also talked about her family life, she shares her two daughters - Ethel, six, and Marnie, five - with ex-husband Sam Cooper, who she separated with in 2016 after five years of marriage.

She said: 'We now structure and schedule the tour around my kids, I was only away two weeks really, because they came out to America for half term. I’m off for Christmas, we are going back to America for Christmas with my kids, mum, brother and loads of people.'

Lily ended her interview by promoting the UK leg of her No Shame tour, which kicks off in Dublin, Ireland, on 11 December.

This Morning continues on weekdays at 10:30am on ITV.

====== 161 ========

KYLIE JENNER PREPS THANKSGIVING MEAL FOR KARDASHIANS

Kylie Jenner took to Instagram on Thursday to share the Thanksgiving feast she's preparing for her family, but her sister Kourtney Kardashian wanted to take the credit, in a joking way.

The 21-year-old entrepreneur shared a video that was captioned 'Thanksgiving love,' which began with Kylie opening the oven to show two turkeys cooking, when Kourtney started talking over the video.

'Kylie is learning cooking lessons from Kourtney,' the 39-year-old reality star said.

Kylie and Stormi: Kylie also shared a new snap with her daughter Stormi, who is sitting on her mother's lap

Thanksgiving rivalry: Kylie Jenner shared her Thanksgiving dinner with her Instagram followers, though Kourtney Kardashian tried to take all the credit

'Not from Kourtney,' Jenner responded. 'I did this all by myself,' she added, while opening another oven to show a ham being cooked.

'No, you're learning from me,' Kourtney said, while the video showed even more of the impressive holiday spread.

'Oooh la la, look at all this food I made,' Kourtney said, before Kylie turned the camera back on her laughing sister, saying, 'Kourntey, you don't' before the video abruptly ended.

Kylie calendar: Kylie also teased that her new calendar drops on Black Friday

Thanksgiving love: 'Not from Kourtney,' Jenner responded. 'I did this all by myself,' she added, while opening another oven to show a ham being cooked

Joking Kourtney: 'No, you're learning from me,' Kourtney said, while the video showed even more of the impressive holiday spread

Thanksgiving jokes: 'Oooh la la, look at all this food I made,' Kourtney said, before Kylie turned the camera back on her laughing sister, saying, 'Kourntey, you don't' before the video abruptly ended

The holiday shenanigans continued on Kourtney's Instagram story, where she opened up both stoves and said, 'So I'm teaching Kylie how to cook today,' while laughing.

Kylie can be heard in the background saying, 'Kourtney! You don't know how to make pancakes.'

Kourtney responded with, 'Oh my God, I make the best pancakes,' which Kylie quickly agreed with stating, 'You do make good pancakes.'

Kardashian Thanksgiving: The holiday shenanigans continued on Kourtney's Instagram story, where she opened up both stoves and said, 'So I'm teaching Kylie how to cook today,' while laughing

Big spread: Kylie can be heard in the background saying, 'Kourtney! You don't know how to make pancakes'

Candied yams: In another Instagram story video, Kourtney showed, 'Kylie's beautiful hands preparing the candied yams'

Kylie styling: Kylie also recently shared a new snap where she's sitting in an exotic car.

This video came just a few weeks after Kourtney got into a 'pancake war' with Kendall Jenner.

In another Instagram story video, Kourtney showed, 'Kylie's beautiful hands preparing the candied yams.'

Kourtney then asks if the marshmallows will go on top, with Kylie responding that they go on last.

Marshmallows go last: Kourtney then asks if the marshmallows will go on top, with Kylie responding that they go on last

Thanksgiving feast: This video came just a few weeks after Kourtney got into a 'pancake war' with Kendall Jenner

Happy Family: Kylie also shared a snap with Travis Scott and Stormi

In her final Instagram video, Kourtney showcased her mother Kris Jenner's 'famous brownies.'

The video showed Jenner, 62, spreading the brownie batter into a pan, while smiling for the camera.

Kylie also shared a new snap with her daughter Stormi, who is sitting on her mother's lap.

====== 162 ========

MADISON BEER GETS CHEEKY ON THE BEACH IN TINY BIKINI IN MIAMI

She just released a new music video with Offset and now she's relaxing in Miami.

Madison Beer paraded down the beach in Florida donning a skimpy bikini for the second day in a row.

Cameras spotted the 19-year-old taking a dip in the ocean on Thanksgiving.

Sunny days: Madison Beer sauntered down the beach in Miami donning a skimpy bikini on Thursday

The young star has a lot to be thankful for this year as she just debuted a brand new music video with Cardi B's husband Offset.

Madison was spotted flaunting her killer curves as she dipped a toe into the South Florida sea.

Dressed in a tiny two-piece, the teen left little to the imagination.

A pair of small thong bikini bottoms displayed the singer's perky bum.

Thankful: The 19-year-old flaunted her enviable physique in a silvery blue metallic swim suit

Cheeky! Madison's thong bottom showcase her perky bum

Mermaid vibes: The young star rung out her wet hair while going for a swim

At one point she emphasized her curves by posing with a hand on her bottom.

The icy blue shimmering bikini featured a push-up bikini top that appeared a size too small for the petite star.

The tight top squeezed the star and displayed some underboob.

Milestone: She just debuted a brand new music video with Cardi B's husband Offset

Strutting her stuff: Cameras spotted the starlet earlier this week showcasing her killer body in a different bikini

Wardobe malfunction? Madison's too-small top showed some of the young star's underboob but that might have been done on purpose

However, the look could be the style since just the day before Madison also showed off the under side of her chest in a different bikini.

While many are donning festive sweaters and tucking into a plate of roasted turkey, the songbird decided instead to tuck into the waves.

Makeup-free and wearing thick black sunglasses, the Home With You songbird rung out her sopping wet hair.

On Wednesday, the singer released the official music video for her revenge anthem. Beer, who is seen nude in several frames, plays a vengeful witch out to wreak havoc.

Collaboration: Her latest track, Hurts Like Hell, is a collab with Migos rapper and features a dramatic music video

Newbie: Madison was discovered on YouTube by Justin Bieber

The video kicks off with Madison, who dons heavy black eyeliner, naked in a bathtub.

She lights candles with a wave of her hand as she turns her attention to an old TV screen, where a man and a woman are embroiled in a fight.

The man hits the woman and Beer grows angry, touching her cheek as if she was the one struck.

The next scene shows the abusive man strapped to a bed as Madison looms in the distance.

Showing off: The 19-year-old is seemingly naked in several scenes of the new video

Setting the scene: The video kicks off with Madison, who dons heavy black eyeliner, naked in a bathtub

Wearing a white wedding veil, the New York native climbs on top of the man—wielding a knife.

She suddenly disappears without a trace and the man is free from the wrist restraints.

'I hope it hurts like hell. You shoulda never let me go,' she sings. 'I know I’m messing up your mind. The devil got you good this time.'

Music and lyrics: 'I hope it hurts like hell. You shoulda never let me go. I know I’m messing up your mind. The devil got you good this time'

On the way: Her studio album is set to debut next year

The music video ends with Beer being captured by witch hunters and condemned to hell.

Madison was discovered on YouTube by Justin Bieber and became a protege of the husband of Hailey Baldwin.

Her studio album is set to debut next year.

====== 163 ========

ASHLEY TISDALE TWEETS LOVE FOR WOMAN WHO OVERSHADOWED HER APPEARANCE AT THANKSGIVING PARADE

Ashley Tisdale's performance at the 92nd Annual Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York City Thursday got plenty of attention, but not entirely for the right reasons.

The former Disney star's performance of Voices in My Head, the first single from her latest album that fans have been waiting nine years for, has gone viral thanks to a woman in the audience who demonstrated some questionable dance moves.

Despite Tisdale, 33, being the focus of the camera during the televised event, viewers couldn't help but notice the action that was going on behind her as one lady enthusiastically busted out some shapes.

Scroll down for videos

Ashley Tisdale's Thanksgiving Parade performance featured an unexpected backing dancer

At one point the woman in the audience started making box gestures around her face

Social media users went crazy for the woman who got more attention for her dancing

When you know the camera is on you at the #macysthanksgivingdayparade @ashleytisdale pic.twitter.com/bFL31HVaP0 — 98 (@wnes) November 22, 2018

Bundled up in a heavy coat, long scarf, woolly hat and gloves, her clothing didn't restrict her from channeling her inner backing dancing as she swooped and twirled her arms around in front of her face while Tisdale performed.

It was the Milly Rock dance – made famous by Brooklyn rapper 2Milly in 2014.

The dance may have been appropriate set to the sounds of lyrics such as 'I Milly Rock on any block' but Tisdale was performing her tune about depression.

Tisdale's unexpected backing dancer also demonstrated some some 1990s box moves around her head as the performance continued.

Milly Rock: The woman was enthusiastically moving in the audience on one of the coldest Thanksgivings in history

While many were filming Tisdale with their phones, the dancing woman had other ideas

Kinder surprise! Tisdale didn't expect her big moment to gain attention for this reason

Still Tisdale was clearly a fan and enthusiastically shared the clip multiple times Thursday writing: 'I love this girl!'

She later added as the clip gained traction: 'I think she stole the performance!'

Social media users couldn't help but laugh however many identified with her desire to go all-out with her dancing on one of the coldest Thanksgiving holidays in history, with a high of 27 degrees and lows of 19 degrees.

The dance comes from the viral moves of 2014 from Brooklyn, New York rapper 2Milly

The dance requires participants to twist their arms around in a swooping motion

Writing 'this is me' or expressing a similar sentiment, one said: 'lmaoooo yeo if that ain't me idk what is.'

Others added: 'Lmao get it gurrrllll!!!!!!' and 'IM CRYINGGGGGGYY'.

Tisdale who was festively dressed in a red coat and matching scarlet lipstick as organised dancers swayed by a Kinder float, was otherwise criticised for lip syncing, unlike fellow performer Kelly Clarkson who brought her own set with her.

Tisdale said she thinks the woman 'stole the performance'

Tweeters shared that they identified with her 'mood' and told the woman to 'get it'

Others loved that her dance moves of choice emulated the Milly Rock

One tweeted called the woman her 'spirit animal'

Some pointed out that she knew other dances aside from the famous Milly Rock

Rita Ora was slammed for bad miming but John Legend defended her.

'Fun fact. We all have to lip sync on this parade because the floats don't have the capacity to handle the sound requirements for a live performance,' he tweeted.

'Hope y'all enjoyed it anyway. Know that if you come to my shows, the vocals are 100% live!'

The parade line-up also included Barenaked Ladies, Martina McBride, Sugarland, Carly Pearce, Kane Brown and 15-year-old Tegan Marie; the Broadway casts of Mean Girls, My Fair Lady, The Prom and Summer: The Donna Summer Musical; and or course The Radio City Rockettes.

Tisdale at the 92nd Annual Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade on Thursday in New York City

====== 164 ========

UFC FIGHTER RACHEAL OSTOVICH LOOKS UPSET AS SHE EMERGES AFTER ATTACK BY HUSBAND

UFC flyweight Rachael Ostovich looked upset and kept her head bowed as she was seen in public for the first time since her MMA fighter husband 'brutally beat her'.

Rachael was spotted in Hawaii Thursday, wearing dark glasses and accompanied by a friend as she she quietly thanked her fans for their well wishes and said she was doing fine, TMZ reported.

Earlier this week details of the restraining order petition she obtained against husband Arnold Berdon emerged and his alleged assault on her. He was arrested on Tuesday over the incident.

UFC flyweight Rachael Ostovich (left) kept her head bowed as Honolou Police Department issued a mugshot of Arnold Berdon (right) who was charged with her attempted murder

'After a night out with family, [Arnold Berdon] punched me repeatedly on the head, face, ribs, making me fall to the ground,' Ostovich said in court documents obtained by TMZ.

'I gasped for breath and escaped thru the balcony. I coughed up blood, threw up several times... cracked orbital.'

The 27-year-old also alleged in the documents that her husband brutally punched her in the legs during a separate physical altercation in May, when she was left bruised.

On Monday, Ostovich filed a restraining order against 27-year-old bantamweight boxer Berdon.

The restraining order was granted and is set to stay in effect until May 18, 2019, as police investigate the case as felony domestic violence.

Ostovich is seen leaning her female friend support as details emerged of the horrific attack perpetrated by her husband Arnold Berdon who left her with a broken eye socket and injuries

The 27-year-old UFC fighter took to Instagram on Wednesday morning to tell her 368K followers, 'Spent time praying for people instead of talking about it.' In the background were trees covered in fog. And the athlete added three prayer emojis

Ostovich broke her silence after her Berdon was arrested for attempted murder in connection with her brutal beating in Hawaii on Sunday

Ostovich broke her silence Wednesday, three days after boxer Berdon was arrested for attempted murder in connection with her brutal beating in Hawaii.

The bombshell fighter took to Instagram in the morning to tell her 368K followers: 'Spent time praying for people instead of talking about them.'

In the background, were trees covered in fog. And the athlete added three prayer emojis.

The brunette beauty was beaten so badly had her orbital bone - a socket of the skull in which the eye and its appendages are situated - was broken, as well as other injuries, and she had to stay in the hospital overnight.

A source told MMAfighter.com that she has been recovering at home.

Her injuries have led Ostovich to cancel her January 19 fight with Paige VanZant in Brooklyn.

He knows how to throw a punch: MMA fighter Berdon is seen here during a tense boxing match

Rachael is a skilled boxer - seen here with Melinda Fabian in 2017 - but was still brutally injured on Sunday

Rachael was beaten up so badly in Hawaii this week, she had to be sent to the hospital. It has forced her to cancel a fight with Paige VanZant

She married Arnold in 2016 and together they have daughter, Ruby Rose.

He was arrested on Monday evening on suspicion of second degree attempted murder and remains behind bars in a Honolulu jail.

Since the incident, his Instagram and Twitter pages have been made private.

A family member told the website that Berdon plans to deny in court any allegations he assaulted his wife.

It was added that Arnold 'is seeking a lawyer and intends to defend himself against allegations he attacked his wife. He will argue he was attacked first and defended himself.'

'The victim suffered head injuries and was treated at a hospital,' spokesperson Sarah Yoro told the MMAFighter site.

The attack happened 2am Sunday at a residence in the Waianae section of Honolulu County, Yoro said.

Honolulu police does not release the names of those involved in alleged crimes, it was added.

Ostovich's Sucker Punch Entertainment management released a statement on Monday evening.

UFC flyweight Rachael Ostovich detailed the horrific abuse she endured Sunday that was allegedly perpetrated by her husband Arnold Berdon. The pair are pictured together on Instagram

According to her Instagram page, she wed to fighter Berdon, 27, in April 2016

She often was asked to model during her career, and would post sexy Instagram snaps

'A very unfortunate incident occurred Sunday night with Rachael Ostovich that ended with her suffering a fractured orbital and other injuries.

'Rachael is now home from the hospital with family and will be going back for further check ups on her orbital.

'The family would like to ask for some privacy as they sort through this matter. We would like to thank the UFC for all their support on this matter as well as the fans and media for your concern.'

According to her Instagram page, she wed to fighter Berdon, 27, in April 2016, although now that a restraining order has been filed, divorce papers may soon follow.

Rachael often posts sexy bikini photos on the beach, earning her 356K followers on Instagram.

Her last portrait was a flashback bathing suit photo on the beach with the caption: 'Missin those summer days.'

The fight with VanZant would have elevated her career greatly.

Ostovich is an American mixed martial artist who competes in the Flyweight division of UFC and weighs 125lbs.

Rachael began her career in 2010 when she was an amateur with the Mixed Martial Arts - in 2014 she went professional.

She moved on to The Ultimate Fighter in August 2017 and four months later she joined The Ultimate Fighter 26 Finale. She won the fight via armbar submission in the first round.

Her last big fight was with Montana de la Rosa in July at The Ultimate Fighter 27 Finale.

====== 165 ========

RIHANNA POSES TOPLESS TO PROMOTE FENTY AND SAVAGE LINGERIE COLLAB

She's proven time and again that she's the best model for her beauty brand Fenty.

And Rihanna was back at it again on Thursday, as she teased her company's new collaboration with the lingerie shop Savage by sharing a sizzling snap.

The Umbrella hitmaker, 30, was sure to set pulses racing in the saucy image, which saw her pose topless on a bed while wearing red underwear.

Sizzling: Rihanna set pulses racing on Thursday as she posed topless in bed to promote new collaboration project between Fenty and Savage lingerie brand

Rihanna completed her sultry look with a pair of black velvet elbow-length gloves, as she slipped into a pair of sheer stockings.

The singer's raven tresses were styled into glamorous waves, while she accentuated her plump pout with a slick of red lipstick.

She wrote to her 65.9 million Instagram followers: 'We getting NAUGHTY-not-NICE this season! @savagexfenty just dropped The Ultimate Gift Guide to help you shop gifts for everybody in ya life !!'

Gorgeous: Rihanna completed her sultry look with a pair of black velvet elbow-length gloves, as she slipped into a pair of sheer stockings

Her post comes after Rihanna shared her opinion last week on the row over controversial comments made by a Victoria's Secret boss about transgender and plus-sized models.

Ed Razek, chief marketing officer of Creative Service for the lingerie giant's parent company Limited Brands, apologised earlier this month, after saying transgender models were not used in their annual show because the presentation is 'fantasy'.

And, after he added in the same interview with Vogue that Victoria's Secret would be 'accused of pandering without question' if they'd produced a show as inclusive as Rihanna's recent Fenty fashion presentation, the singer took a swipe on Instagram.

Taking a swipe: Her post comes after Rihanna shared her opinion on the row over controversial comments made by a Victoria's Secret boss about transgender and plus-sized models

Apology: CMO senior creative Ed Razek (pictured centre with, from left, Lais Ribeiro, Sara Sampaio, Martha Hunt, and Gigi Hadid in May 2018) has apologised for his comments

The Man Down singer was tagged in a post, which showed a screen grab of a tweet slamming Razek's comments, stating: 'Prime example of why brands need to be careful of casting directors opinions.'

The post, by model Louise O'Reilly, continued: 'Especially when it's a 70 year old man who's living in the past. Thank god @rihanna brought us @SavageXFenty this year with genuine attention & love of diversity in her branding.' [sic]

And while Bajan beauty Rihanna didn't comment, she did tellingly click the like button, making her feelings on the matter known.

In September, Rihanna was widely lauded for her Fenty presentation at New York Fashion Week, which saw models of a variety of shapes and sizes take to the runway, and featured heavily pregnant Slick Woods showcasing a cut-out bodysuit.

====== 166 ========

RITA ORA HITS BACK AFTER 'LIP-SYNC FAIL' AT MACY'S THANKSGIVING PARADE

Rita Ora came under fire by fans after she was seen lip-syncing out of time during the Macy's Thanksgiving Parade held in New York on Thursday.

Fans were quick to criticise the Let Me Love You hit-maker on social media, with many claiming the mishap had been the 'highlight' of their parade - prompting Rita, 27, to hit back and set the record straight.

She assured fans that she had no other choice to lip-sync, as all the artists have to during the parade, and insisted her vocals are always '100% live' during all her shows, as she thanked Macy's for their honesty as the store rushed to her defence.

Rita had taken part in the annual parade and was seen performing her single Let Me Love You onboard a float. She joined a whole host of stars, but her appearance soon became viral as fans busted the starlet for singing out of a time.

A technical glitch saw her track begin a few seconds before Rita began singing. She was unaware of the timing and was therefore seen mouthing the words to her track out of sync.

Directors were forced to cut to wide angle shots for the remainder of the song, while the London-based beauty silently played catch up.

After being hit by a wave of criticism online, Rita made sure to set the record straight. She took to Twitter after noticing fellow popstar John Legend - who had also appeared in the parade - had rushed to show Rita his support, revealing that all the artists that take part in the parade are told they have to lipsync.

Oops: Rita Ora came under fire by fans after she was seen lip-syncing out of time during the Macy Thanksgiving Parade held in New York on Thursday.

Hitting back: She was defended by John Legend on social media and responding to her tweet, Rita hit back at her critics, insisting she always sings live at her own shows

Mishap: Rita had taken part in the annual parade and was seen performing her single Let Me Love You onboard a float, but was seen miming out of time

Rushing to her defence: After fans pointed out John Legend had been lip-syncing too, the star took to Twitter to reveal all artists are forced to mime when they take part in the parade

Fans had pointed out that John was also seen lip-syncing, prompting the star to tweet in defence: 'Fun fact. We all have to lip sync on this parade because the floats don't have the capacity to handle the sound requirements for a live performance. Hope y'all enjoyed it anyway. Know that if you come to my shows, the vocals are 100% live!'

Rita then added in response: 'Fun fact @johnlegend thank you for clarifying what I was about to also tweet. It’s annoying for us but anyway! All my shows are 100 percent live always have been! When you come to a ORA show get ready! Back to holidays! Have a good one guys! :).'

As another fan made sure to show Rita their support and scolded others for being so 'quick to judge' as 'we all know she can sing', the pop sensation replied: 'Exactly!! You got that right! You know this girl doesn’t lip sync it’s not my world! Now let me go find some turkey!!'

Rita chose to hit back after finding herself being mocked online in a series of tweets. Some of those watching the parade couldn't resist tweeting about the mishap, joking that it had been the 'highlight' of the event.

'It's not my world': Rita insisted she would never usually lip sync, as a fan supported the beauty and told others not to be 'so quick to judge'

'Annoyed': Rita branded the fact she was forced to mime 'annoying' as she set the record straight on her performance

High spirits: Unaware of the technical difficulty at the time, Rita was seen having a ball as she performed onboard a float

Giving it her all: Despite not singing live, she appeared to throw herself into her performance

Having a ball: The beauty flashed a smile as she greeted parade-goers in New York for the annual event to celebrate Thanksgiving

They posted: 'I was almost 90% sure that I am existing in reality, but after seeing Rita Ora lip sync her song off cue on a Krazy Glue float I’m not so sure.

'Watching Rita Ora fail at lip syncing and the camera people having to cut away from her made my #MacysDayParade,' added another.

'Happy Thanksgiving to the fine folks in the NBC control room who keep panning away from Rita Ora’s face because her lip-synch is off by a solid four bars.'

However, after noticing the criticism online, Macy rushed to Rita's defence and insisted the lipsync fail had been out of the singer's control.

Harsh: Viewers joked that Rita's 'toe-curling' performance had been the 'highlight' of the parade, as they mocked the Let Me Love You hit-maker on Twitter

Taking the blame for the technical glitch that occurred, they tweeted: 'During today’s NBC broadcast of the #MacysParade several recording artists experienced technical difficulties that negatively impacted their performance. We apologize and want fans to know these issues were out of the artist’s control.'

Thanking the store for their 'honesty', Rita replied: 'Thank you and I appreciate the honesty and I hope everyone still had a great time!'

She had stunned during her appearance in the parade, wrapping up from the cold in a quilted Moncler coat (worth over £1700) and sporting a sassy pillar box red lip.

Meanwhile, John Legend's revelations that the stars of the parade are forced to lip-sync prompted a discussion, with one fan asking whether he really mimes or still sings out loud.

Honest: Rita thanked Macy's for their 'honesty' after the store jumped to her defence and insisted the technical mishap was out of her hands

Support: Macy's had tweeted out in support of Rita: 'Several recording artists experience technical difficulties... these issues were out of the artist's control'

Sight to see: Rita had joined the parade on board a huge float that made its way through the city that was packed with crowds

Stunning: She looked simply stunning for the event, as she wrapped up in a quilted PVC jacket and donned statement earrings

Standing out: She donned a sheer lace skirt over black leggings and statement outerwear

Beautiful: Rita wore her blonde locks in a voluminous style and donned a bright red lip

They asked: 'Do you actually sing while you lip sync or do you just move your mouth?'

'I sang exactly as I would've if you could hear me. I figure that's the only way to believably do it. But I'm not an expert in these matters,' replied John, whose wife Chrissy Teigen is the host of Lip Sync Battle.

Prior to his appearance at the parade, host Macy's had poked fun at the couple when it re-posted John's announcement he would be performing, alongside a 2014 tweet of Chrissy's declaring 'I cannot imagine being bored enough to watch a parade on television.'

Both applauded the social media team's savagery, with Chrissy adding '(still didn't watch) I'm sure ya did great kiddo.'

Beaming: She seemed excited to be involved with the lavish affair and was seen flashing a smile throughout her appearance in the parade

All eyes on her: Fans were no doubt thrilled to get up close to the starlet

Happy: Rita has been enjoying the success of her new single - taken from her new album Phoenix that has just been released

Getting into the spirit: She was seen sharing a high-five with Ronald McDonald

Each year, Macy's holds a three-hour parade throughout the streets of New York to celebrate Thanksgiving. It's been dubbed the world's largest parade and first took place in 1924 and has been televised nationally on NBC since 1952.

Marking the US holiday, the parade has become a tradition and most known for its floats and use of character and novelty balloons.

As well as Rita and John, a whole host of stars turned out for the 2018 parade, including music icon Diana Ross.

Taking centre stage: John Legend wrapped up warm as he delighted fans with his pre-recorded vocals at the parade

'I'm no expert': John's revelation that every artist has to lip-sync at the parade, prompted a discussion about lip-syncing on Twitter with his fans

Amusing: Prior to his appearance at the parade, Macy's mocked Legend and his wife Chrissy Teigen as she had previously mocked the parade insisting she isn't 'boring enough to watch'

'Savage': They shared her tweet alongside John announcing he will star in the 2018 parade, prompting the couple to applaud Macy's social media team on their amusing post

Good sport: John had a ball as he greeted parade-goers from the build-a-bear float

She was seen without a mic, as she greeted the crowd from her float while Ashley Tisdale was excited to share her new single Voices in My Head - the debut from her first album in nine years - with parade-goers and viewers at home.

While most artists adhered to lip-syncing as required by Macy's, former American Idol winner Kelly Clarkson provided a live performance.

She performed via a stage, not a float like the rest of the stars involved, and belted out an authentic rendition of Heat, while joined by a band and back-up singers.

The parade line-up also included Barenaked Ladies, Martina McBride, Sugarland, Carly Pearce, Kane Brown and 15-year-old Tegan Marie; the Broadway casts of Mean Girls, My Fair Lady, The Prom and Summer: The Donna Summer Musical; and The Radio City Rockettes.

Host of stars: Joining Rita and John in the parade had been music icon Diana Ross (L) and Ashley Tisdale (R)

====== 167 ========

TRUMP SAYS HE IS THANKFUL FOR HIMSELF ON THANKSGIVING DAY

President Donald Trump said he's thankful for himself and the difference he made in this country along with his family, most of whom he enjoyed turkey dinner with at his Mar-a-Lago estate on Thursday evening.

Asked on Thanksgiving Day to reflect on what he's 'most thankful for,' the president responded: 'For having a great family and for having made a tremendous difference in this country.'

'I made a tremendous difference in the country,' he added. 'This country so much stronger now than it was when I took office that you won't believe it. And I mean, you see it, but so much stronger that people can't even believe it.

President Trump and Melania Trump enjoy Thanksgiving dinner at Mar-a-Lago

President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump sit with son Barron and Ivanka Trump at Thanksgiving Day dinner at their Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla.

Ivanka Trump talks with her kids as she has Thanksgiving Day dinner with President Donald Trump, left, and sister Tiffany Trump, background left

Trump spent his holiday speaking on the phone with U.S. soldiers, visiting a local Coast Guard station and then heading to his Trump International Golf course.

He had dinner with his family at in the ballroom at Mar-a-Lago that evening. The president sat in between Barron, in a suit, and Melania, who wore a floor length black dress with long black lace sleeves at a table in the center of the room.

Other members of the Trump family were also seated at the same table - Tiffany, in a mint green dress; Ivanka, in a strapless floral white dress, with her children; and Eric Trump and his wife Lara.

Missing from the menu was romaine lettuce, which the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warned U.S. consumers not to eat as it may be contaminated with E. coli.

Chefs were serving food in a corner of the room. Several tables had long gold clothes with autumn centerpieces and guests ate off of white plates edged in gold.

The president and first lady smiled and waved at the reporters who came into the room to see the dinner festivities.

Ivanka and her three children posed for an adorable picture together before they sat down for their Thanksgiving meal together

The first daughter also snapped a picture of her children, posing on the stairs

She captioned the photos, on her tweet, 'from our family to yours, Happy Thanksgiving! xx'

According to Stephanie Grisham, a spokesperson for the East Wing, the menu included: a full salad bar including Caesar, wedge, tomato/mozzarella, and Greek salads, deviled eggs, and duck prosciutto & melon.

However, despite the traditional ingredients in a Caesar salad, romaine lettuce was not used in any of the dishes, the White House confirmed.

A chilled seafood display w Florida stone crab, oysters, jumbo shrimp, and clams.

A carving station with turkey and all the trimmings, beef tenderloin, lamb and salmon.

Entrees of Chilean Sea bass, Red Snapper, Braised short ribs. Sides include whipped potatoes, sweet potatoes, vegetables and traditional stuffing.

And assorted desserts.

A man began performing 'Music of the Night' from Phantom of the Opera shortly before reporters came in to see the president dine - a request from the president Grisham said.

President Trump brought sandwiches to a Coast guard crew

He joked the sandwiches would make you gain 5 pounds

President Donald Trump is presented with a challenge coin

The president started his morning speaking to various troops for about 25 minutes, talking with an Air Force Unit in Afghanistan, Marines in Kuwait, Army soldiers in Afghanistan, Coast Guard officers in Bahrain, and a Navy Commander.

He spoke partially from a script, the pages of which were visible in front of him as he spoke on the phone.

He took questions from the press afterward.

The president and his family are spending the Thanksgiving holiday at his estate of Mar-a-Lago.

First lady Melania Trump and his son Barron, last seen in August, boarded Air Force One with the president on Tuesday when he left the White House. Also traveling on the presidential plane were Ivanka Trump and her three children, and Tiffany Trump.

Eric Trump, his wife Lara and their son - who are based in New York - arrived separately to join the family for the holiday.

Ivanka Trump and her children were spotted outside of Mar-a-Lago while Trump was on the phone with troops who are stationed overseas.

Ivanka Trump, her three children and Tiffany Trump traveled to Florida on Air Force One

Eric Trump, his wife Lara and their son arrived separately in Florida

Outside the residence, servers were setting up tables for the first family's holiday dinner.

'Melania and I want to express our gratitude for the sacrifices you make to defend your nation while you are away from your family and loved ones,' he told troops at the start of the call.

'I hope you will take solace in knowing that all of the American families that you hold close to your heart we're all doing well,' he added.

After Trump spoke to the troops and the press, delivered a tray of giant sandwiches to a Coast Guard troops inFlorida on Thanksgiving Day and warned them to watch out as they could gain 'five pounds' from one.

There was no sign of first lady Melania Trump at the president's stop at the Coast Guard Station Lake Worth Inlet in Palm Beach, Florida.

She had joined him last year in the sandwich delivery.

The president noted he'd come to the same station last year but added he hoped the food was better this year.

'You gain about five pounds when you eat one of those,' he said of the giant submarine sandwiches.

He offered to take questions from the troops but no one asked.

He wished the crowd a 'Happy Thanksgiving' and praised Coast Guard members for their work in hurricane responses, saying they had saved thousands of lives since he became president.

He also shook hands and met with kitchen staff.

Trump complimented the Coast Guard on their work on the hurricanes

He shook hands and offered to take questions

Trump had a script on paper in front of him when he spoke to U.S. troops on the phone from Mar-A-Lago

'If you were doing a brand, they would say this is one of the great brand increases,' he said, in one of his favorite compliments.

'Nobody has gone up more than the Coast Guard,' he said.

He joked with several of the officers and even did a fake arm wrestling move with one of them.

And he invited all of them to Mar-a-Lao and said they could play a round of golf. The president even offered a bet.

'Anybody that wants to go, you go,' he said, inviting them to Mar-a-Lago.

Last year the first lady joined President Trump in delivering sandwiches

Trump visited the same Coast Guard station alone this year that he and the first lady visited last year

Melania Trump did join the president when he flew to Mar-a-Lago on Tuesday

'If you break par, I'll give you $100,' he said.

Melania Trump did join the president when he flew to Mar-a-Lago on Tuesday. She and son Barron, who hasn't been spotted in public since August, flew on Air Force One with the president to his Florida estate.

Melania Trump also attended the annual turkey pardoning earlier Tuesday.

Trump went to his golf course after visiting the troops.

====== 168 ========

CHRISSY TEIGEN CALLS MACY'S 'SAVAGE' FOR TROLLING PARADE COMMENT

Chrissy Teigen was just dragged by Macy's in the best way possible.

The retail giant tweeted an epic burn of the supermodel for hating on parades ahead of her husband John Legend performing in the annual Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade.

The retailer dug up a vintage tweet from the Craving's author from 2014 where she insulted the tradition and posted it as a 'savage' throwback tweet early on Thanksgiving morning.

Epic burn! Chrissy Teigen called Macy's 'savage' after they dug up a 2014 tweet where she called parades boring and posted it alongside a John Legend tweet promoting his Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade performance on Thursday

Funny times: Chrissy, John and Macy's engaged in a brief, but hysterical twitter war over the tweet

'I cannot imagine being bored enough to watch a parade on television,' the 32-year-old tweeted back in 2014.

Macy's reposted the tweet on Thursday writing simply #TBT.

Alongside Chrissy's vintage comment, Macy's included a tweet from her husband promoting his performance in this year's parade.

'Happy Thanksgiving! I’m on the @buildabear float at the #MacysParade,' the 39-year-old crooner wrote.

Hysterical: Legend retweeted the burn and laughed, calling it 'perfect'

'I cannot imagine being bored enough to watch a parade on television:' said 2014 Chrissy

Happy Thanksgiving: John Legend rode on the Build a Bear float and performed during this year's annual extravaganza

Adding: 'And very soon I’ll be performing #MerryLittleChristmas from my new album #ALegendaryChristmas - tune in now on @nbc!'

Always down for a good razz, John retweeted the burn and added 'Hahahahaha perfect.'

Chrissy responded to her husband with: 'SOMEONE HAD TO STAY HOME AND COOK FOR OUR CHILDREN AND FAMILY'

She also doubled down on her original sentiment like only Chrissy could.

Too busy: This year the model said she still didn't watch because she was home cooking dinner

Drop the mic! Macy's seemingly ended the battle with a smug gif of Santa sipping the tea

'Damn Macys a savage, (still didn't watch) I'm sure ya did great kiddo,' the mother of two hilariously wrote on Twitter.

John however, thoroughly enjoyed the moment and gave props to the retail giant's social team.

'Savage,' he agreed on social media. 'Respect the social media team at @Macys.'

The three way Twitter war seemingly ended with a gif posted by Macy's in response of a smug Santa sipping the tea.

Doubling down: The supermodel gave in and actually watched some of the show

Doubling down: The supermodel gave in and actually watched some of the show

Not helping: Seeing the parade seemed to bolster the mother of two's opinion that her 2014 statement was correct

'I must have been killed by a float in a past life or something, I am very uncomfortable watching this,' Chrissy wrote

However, the Becca spokesmodel kicked it into high gear again when she shared photos showing that she gave in and watched the parade.

'fine, fine, fine @macys,' she tweeted.

This only served to fortify the beauty's negative opinions of the whole ordeal.

Once she started watching, Chrissy couldn't seem to stop posting about it.

Not into it: 'DANCING MARCHING FLAGS TWIRLING GIANT ANIMALS STREAMERS GLITTER SINGING I mean this is utter chaos'

Holiday spirit: Unlike his wife, John seemed thrilled about riding in a float in the parade

'DANCING MARCHING FLAGS TWIRLING GIANT ANIMALS STREAMERS GLITTER SINGING I mean this is utter chaos,' one tweet read.

Another read: 'Parades are weird I stand by my statement like this is getting progressively weirder,' and she later added, 'everything is so weird.'

Finally she surmised: 'I must have been killed by a float in a past life or something, I am very uncomfortable watching this.'

Build a Bear: The singer rode on a float and lip synced some holiday tunes to promote his new Christmas album

Backlash: Legend and Rita Ora caught social media flack for not singing live during the parade

Chrissy was up at 6 AM on Thanksgiving morning hard at work in the kitchen preparing her holiday feast, so presumably, that is why she claimed she didn't have time to watch.

However, she did find a few minutes to post a selfie video wearing a big gold velvet headband.

She asked: 'Do I look like a turkey?'

Fail: Chrissy laughed at her husband's performance which caught criticism for the poor lip syncing

No choice: Legend said on social media that floats aren't equipped with the audio equipment needed to sing live

Clapping back: The EGOT winner defended his lip syncing to haters

While the foodie churned out her meal prep, John was performing at the parade.

His performance was met with some backlash after viewers noticed that his song, as well as that of Rita Ora, appeared to be badly lip synced.

John didn't let haters drag down him down though and explained that there was a perfectly good reason for the fakery.

'Fun fact. We all have to lip sync on this parade because the floats don't have the capacity to handle the sound requirements for a live performance,' he wrote.

Turkey prep: Meanwhile Chrissy was home prepping Thanksgiving dinner

It's all gravy: The cookbook author shared the meal prep process with fans on social media

It's not easy: Even and expert like Chrissy gets it wrong - the star had to remake a sweet potato pie after scorching the first one

'Hope y'all enjoyed it anyway. Know that if you come to my shows, the vocals are 100% live!'

Legend's lip syncing did not seem spot on though he went on to explain: 'I sang exactly as I would've if you could hear me. I figure that's the only way to believably do it.'

Adding: 'But I'm not an expert in these matters.'

Perhaps he should have consulted his wife, who happens to be an expert in such matters as the co-host Lip Sync Battle.

When his performance was up, Chrissy posted a photo from her living room television on twitter and simply wrote 'Ahahahahahahahahahha.'

Lip sync battle: Legend explained to fans why the performances on the floats can't be live

====== 169 ========

ESPN'S LAURA RUTLEDGE FLATTENED BY COLLEGE FOOTBALL STAR PRATHER HUDSON WHO ASKS HER ON DATE

'Really sorry I knocked you down, but… I can pick you up at 7,' running back said

Rutledge was floored by Prather Hudson, who then offered to take her out

She got too close to the action recently as Georgia hosted UMass

ESPN's Laura Rutledge is used to being in the thick of the action in her job as a sideline reporter covering college football.

But Rutledge got more than she bargained for when she became an unlikely victim during Saturday’s game between the Georgia Bulldogs and visiting Massachusetts Minutemen.

Rutledge was inadvertently leveled by Bulldogs running back Prather Hudson as the redshirt freshman was being driven out of bounds by the UMass defense.

Scroll down for video

ESPN's Laura Rutledge is used to being in the thick of the action in her job as a sideline reporter

But in the Georgia vs Massachusetts game she was taken out by two players

Georgia running back Prather Hudson later apologized for the unfortunate incident

Prather was trying to block a UMass defender when the pair tumbled out of bounds and into the unfortunate reporter.

The 30-year-old former Miss Florida was sent tumbling to the ground but was unhurt. She later took to Twitter to thank UGa Athletics for helping her back up.

Hudson was keen to make up for knocking her over, too, and even asked her out on a date.

'Hey @LauraMRutledge really sorry I knocked you down, but… I can pick you up at 7,' he wrote on Twitter.

The 30-year-old former Miss Florida was sent tumbling to the ground but was unhurt

Took an L in Athens today. So many thanks to everyone at @UGAAthletics for their help after this happened...even though I’m a Gator 😏 pic.twitter.com/b1FTCPaqtH — Laura Rutledge (@LauraMRutledge) November 18, 2018

Hudson's attempt to make the most of his meeting with Rutledge went viral on Twitter

The 30-year-old is a former Miss Florida but now she works as a sports reporter for ESPN

Rutledge, who is married to free agent baseball player Josh Rutledge, replied simply with a laughing emoji.

Hudson's attempt to make the most of his meeting with Rutledge went viral on Twitter.

On Thursday, his original tweet had garnered more than 73,000 retweets but also attracted much scorn.

When Rutledge informed fans she was married, many users simply replied to Hudson: 'RIP'

But the running back can find comfort in that Georgia Bulldogs defeated UMass Minutemen 66-27.

Hudson majors in finance at the University, where his father also studied.

====== 170 ========

VICTORIA BECKHAM CUTS CHIC FIGURE IN SHARP SUIT AS SHE DISPLAYS MATERNAL SIDE DURING WORLD AIDS DAY

She was appointed an International Goodwill Ambassador for UNAIDS in 2014 and has continued to show her support for the global charity.

Stepping out ahead of World AIDS Day, Victoria Beckham cut a chic figure in a tailored suit as she paid a visit to the initiative's headquarters in Geneva on Friday.

The fashion designer, 44, documented the trip via her Instagram page and told fans she was 'delighted' to be involved, as she displayed her maternal side while sweetly greeting one of the charity's young guests.

Doing her bit: Stepping out for World Aids Day on Friday, Victoria Beckham cut a chic figure in a tailored suit as paid a visit to the initiative's headquarters and its young guests

Dressed to impress for the occasion, Victoria cut a sharp appearance in a tailored black suit that paired together high-waisted wide cut trousers and an open blazer.

She teamed her two-piece with a fitted white shirt underneath and added a boost to her getup with a pair of leather stiletto boots.

The beauty pinned her locks back into a loose ponytail, leaving the front sections of her mane down to frame her face, and wasn't without her usual glamour as she stepped out wearing a glamorous yet minimal make-up look.

Victoria was proudly sporting the UNAIDS red logo badge on the lapel of her blazer and appeared in high spirits as she met with the initiative.

Sweet: The fashion designer, 44, documented the trip via her Instagram page displayed her maternal side while sweetly greeting one of the charity's young guests

Dressed to impress: Victoria (above with UNAIDS Chief of Staff Annemarie Hou) cut a sharp appearance in a tailored black suit and stiletto boot heels

The former Spice Girl told fans she was honoured to meet with UNAIDS Chief of Staff Annemarie Hou and Executive Director Michel Sidibé - who thanked Victoria for her support.

She also met with staff while visiting the charity's headquarters and displayed her maternal side as she sweetly interacted with the daughter of one staff member. Sharing the adorable moment with fans, Victoria could be seen accepting a little bouquet of flowers from the youngster.

The star is mother to four children herself, whom she shares with husband David Beckham; sons Brooklyn, 19, Romeo, 16, Cruz, 13 and daughter Harper, seven.

Victoria penned alongside the series of snaps: 'Honoured to meet Annemarie Hou and Alissa Victoria at @unaidsglobal today. #KnowYourStatus #WorldAidsDay @unitednations x VB.'

Speaking about her trip to Geneva, Victoria said: 'I am really happy to be in Geneva to support UNAIDS in the run-up to World AIDS Day. We need to make sure that people feel supported to take an HIV test by ending the stigma and discrimination still too often associated with the virus.

Proud: Victoria (pictured above with UNAIDS Executive Director Michel Sidibé) said she was 'delighted' to be joining the charity which she is an International Goodwill Ambassador for

'Today, we have the medicines to keep people healthy and to stop the virus being transmitted. AIDS isn’t over yet, but it can be.'

UNAIDS estimates around one in four people worldwide continue to be unaware that they are living with HIV and 36.9 million people were living with the virus worldwide in 2017.

Victoria has been long associated with the charity and was appointed an International Goodwill Ambassador of UNAIDS back in 2014 in a bid to help raise awareness and support their vision of an AIDS-free future.

Speaking of her role, Victoria said: 'This is the beginning of an important journey for me. As a woman and a mother, I have a responsibility to support other women.

'I am proud and honoured to be working with UNAIDS in this new role to help raise awareness to support and empower women and children affected by HIV.'

Charitable acts: Victoria is also a patron of the Elton John AIDS Foundation and celebrated the initiative's 25th anniversary at a ball with her eldest son Brooklyn, 19 (pictured with her above)

In the same year of her addition, Victoria had visited South Africa to meet mothers and children with HIV as part of her work as patron for the Elton John AIDS Foundation.

She and her eldest son Brooklyn Beckham, 19, had attended a ball held in celebration of 25 years of Elton John's foundation in June.

Victoria's visit to UNAIDS comes after she has found herself thrust even further into the spotlight, following confirmation the Spice Girls will be reuniting for a 2019 tour.

While Emma Bunton, Mel B, Mel C and Geri Horner will hit the road for the stadium tour, Victoria has confirmed she won't be joining her former bandmates on stage.

However, she has insisted she will 'absolutely' be attending the show to support the girls on their return.

Furore: Victoria's visit to UNAIDS comes after she has found herself thrust even further into the spotlight, following confirmation the Spice Girls will be reuniting for a 2019 tour

Missing out: Victoria has confirmed she won't be joining her former bandmates on stage, but insisted while collecting her People's Choice award that she will attend the show

The singer-turned-fashionista spoke to Extra before accepting her People's Choice Award, where she was asked point blank why she isn't taking part with her fellow band mates.

'I have so much going on with my business and my family,' Victoria explained. 'I think the girls are going to do a great job!'

The Spice Girls have sold out nine dates across the UK, after being forced to add extra shows due to 'phenomenal fan demand'.

Mel B caused a stir as the Spice Girls reunited on Heart FM to appear on the radio channel's breakfast show - that Emma co-hosts with Jamie Theakston - and claimed Victoria would be joining the girls on stage for their Wembley date.

Speaking about the difficult decision to go ahead with the reunion without Victoria, Mel said: 'It is tough because obviously she’s a huge part of the band.'

Iconic: The Spice Girls shot to fame in the early '90s and found themselves at the top of the charts in 37 countries with their debut single Wannabe, released in 1996

Mel C then chimed: 'We really support each other and the decisions that we make and we really support her, and she’s really supporting us, so I think that’s a big part of our ethos.'

Cheeky Mel B then playfully interjected: 'But she is joining us at Wembley on June 14th,' sparking laughter from the rest of the group' - although, it has since been said she was just being 'playful'.

The Spice Girls shot to fame in the early '90s and found themselves at the top of the charts in 37 countries with their debut single Wannabe, released in 1996.

The band split in 2000, two years after Geri announced her departure from the band. They later reunited in 2007, delighting fans with their The Return Of The Spice Girls world tour, before performing at the London 2012 Olympics closing ceremony.

Since then, speculation has been rife that the girls will be re-forming, with rumours reaching fever pitch in 2016 - as it marked 20 years since the release of the girls' first single.

====== 171 ========

PRINCE CHARLES JOKES ABOUT HARRY AND MEGHAN'S BABY NAME

Prince Charles has joked about some unexpected entries on the shortlist of potential names for his future fourth grandchild.

According to the Prince of Wales, who was addressing guests at a reception at Australia House in London on Thursday evening, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex - who are expecting their first child in the spring - were offered countless baby name suggestions during their marathon tour of Australia, New Zealand, Fiji and Tonga, last month.

Charles joked that Kylie - a nod to one of Australia's most famous daughters - 'may make the shortlist' as a result.

A Prince Shane is also a possibility according to Harry's father; likely a light-hearted reference to Australian former international cricketer Shane Warne.

But the jovial royal warned guests not to hold their breath for 'Edna or Les'. Comedian Barry Humphries, who is known for his stage and television alter egos of Dame Edna Everage and Sir Les Patterson, was among the guests.

Charles was speaking a reception celebrating the centenary of Australia House which is Australia's oldest diplomatic post and the longest continually-occupied diplomatic building in London.

According to Prince Charles, Harry and Meghan were bombarded with countless suggestions for baby names during their marathon tour of Australia, New Zealand, Fiji and Tonga. The royal couple are expecting their first child in the spring

Prince Charles, who was addressing guests at a reception at Australia House in London, joked that Kylie and Shane were in the running

Watched by the Duchess of Cornwall, he told the guests at the central London event: 'Incidentally ladies and gentlemen my son Harry tells me that during their recent tour of Australia, he and his wife were offered countless thoughtful suggestions for the naming of their forthcoming baby.

'Just between us, I suspect that Kylie and Shane may possibly make the shortlist.

'But ladies and gentlemen I would not hold your breath for Edna or Les.'

Comedian Barry Humphries, who is known for his stage and television alter egos of Dame Edna Everage and Sir Les Patterson, was among the guests.

Princess Kylie? The jovial Prince of Wales said 'I suspect that Kylie and Shane may possibly make the shortlist'

Harry and Meghan, who married in May, are expecting their first child in the spring.

Charles, who went to Geelong Grammar School as a teenager, spoke of his 'deep and abiding' affection for Australia and his 'pride in seeing it go from strength to strength' both at home and on the world stage.

He praised Australia for its self-deprecating sense of humour and as a nation which he said stands by friends and strangers in times of trouble.

He described Australians as 'frank, generous, courageous, resilient and above all great fun'.

He spoke of the strong spirit of Australians who could be relied on after devastating bushfires or floods, and he recalled the 'profoundly moving' dawn services he attended in 2015.

Charles unveiled a new portrait, painted by Australian-born artist Ralph Heimans. It shows Charles standing by a window and a grand piano in the tapestry room at Dumfries House, Scotland.

Prince Charles shook hands with Australian comic Barry Humphries, better known as his alter ego Dame Edna

A new piece of music written especially for the centenary, called This House, was also played.

Ex-pat Australians including Strictly Come Dancing judge Craig Revel Horwood, actor and dancer Adam Garcia and author Kathy Lette were also among the guests.

The audience was made up of Australians in the UK who have contributed to the Australia-UK relationship. They included figures, both British and Australian, from a range of industries including the worlds of sport, business, academia and the arts.

During the visit the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall also unveiled a stone engraving commemorating the anniversary. It mirrors the foundation stone laid by King George V in 1913.

Prince Charles and Camilla admire the striking portrait of His Royal Highness which is hanging at Australia House in London painted by Australian-born Ralph Heimans

The Duke and Duchess also unveiled a stone engraving that commemorates the centenary and mirrors the foundation stone laid by King George V in 1913

Charles was side by side with the portrait as he gave a speech at the commemoration ceremony, speaking about the painting by Ralph Heimans

The artist Ralph Heimans told the Sydney Morning Herald that the painting, which sees the future monarch posting in the Tapestry Room of Dumfries House, was all a nod towards Charles and what he represents.

'He's committed to protecting nature but he also loves farming and gardening so I depicted him with a walking stick - he has a collection in each of the houses.

'Dumfries House is where he puts his theories into practice - there's youth training and artists roaming the grounds and... he practices sustainable agriculture, it's a very dynamic place,' Heimans added.

In the window of the portrait is a looming oak tree that reflects on to the grand piano in front of Charles, which the artist said shows the Prince's love of nature.

After arriving at Australia House the royal duo signed the guest book, which looked near to the end, marking 100 years since it was built in London in 1918

Charles mingled with guests at the event, including Craig Revel Horwood who had attended a ceremony the previous evening with Camilla

====== 172 ========

MARIAH CAREY GLITTERS IN GOLD SEQUINED JACKET ON THANKSGIVING WITH TWINS MOROCCAN AND MONROE

She recently teased a sequel to her 2001 film Glitter.

And there was no shortage of glitter on display during Mariah Carey's Thanksgiving preparations on Thursday, with the songstress slipping her famous physique into a gold sequined jacket.

The 49-year-old prepared candied yams with her seven-year-old twins Moroccan and Monroe.

All that Glitters: There was no shortage of glitter on display during Mariah Carey's Thanksgiving preparation on Thursday, with the songstress slipping her famous physique into a gold sequined jacket

In a video shared to Instagram, the Fantasy hitmaker lays marshmallows out on top of the yams with her fraternal twins.

At one point she warns the twins, 'We'll have to be careful of your sleeves, please.'

'We don't want you to go up in flames'.

The songstress then wishes her fans a Happy Thanksgiving, before daughter Monroe declares it 'the best Thanksgiving ever'.

The All I Want For Christmas Is You singer shares her kids with ex Nick Cannon, to whom she was married from 2008 to 2016.

Her babies: The 49-year-old prepared candied yams with her seven-year-old twins Moroccan and Monroe

Yamming it up: In a video shared to Instagram, the Fantasy hitmaker lays marshmallows out on top of the yams with her fraternal twins

Mariah spilled the tea about the possibility of a Glitter sequel on WKTU’s Cubby And Carolina In The Morning radio show airing Wednesday.

Rocking a black fur coat and retro shades, the Elusive Chanteuse revealed her future plans for the 2001 fan favorite musical drama.

'I would say definitely not a sequel, but some kind of interactive moment with the movie we've been talking about. It's fun...'

She went on to say the movie - considered a box office bomb - was a hard sell as it opened the day the September 11th attacks occurred.

====== 173 ========

TOM BRADY SHARES CUTE PICTURES OF HIS KIDS AS HE SPENDS QUIET THANKSGIVING AT HOME WITH THE FAMILY

Some football players have to go to work on Thanksgiving.

But not Tom Brady, who luckily got to spend a quiet one at home with the family on Thursday, posting the Instagram snaps to prove it.

The New England Patriots quarterback shared with his 4.6million followers pics of his offspring, as well as the delicious food they all enjoyed together.

Meat eater: Tom Brady shared cute pictures of his kids as he spent a quiet Thanksgiving at home with the family on Thursday - including this one of carnivorous five-year-old Vivian

"Daddy, I am a meat eater” #apparentlyso,' he quoted Vivian — the five-year-old daughter he shares with wife Gisele Bundchen — as she devoured a gigantic turkey leg.

'Happy thanksgiving and I hope you are surrounded by the joy and happiness of loved ones!' he added.

'I am thankful to the incredible support by my family and friends and fans and here is to another year full of health and happiness! Thanks be to God!'

Another snap showed eight-year-old Benjamin cuddled up with the family dog on the sofa.

Cosy: Another snap showed eight-year-old Benjamin cuddled up with the family dog on the sofa

Boys: A third photo, with a comic book filter, saw Tom flanked by his two sons, including 11-year-old Jack, whom he shares with actress ex Bridget Moynahan

Relaxing: Other plans for the day included watching the Macy's Thanksgiving Parade, as evidenced by a shot of an enormous TV at the foot of his bed

A third photo, with a comic book filter, saw Tom flanked by his two sons, including 11-year-old Jack, whom he shares with actress ex Bridget Moynahan.

The NFL star seemed equally proud of the menu on the day, sharing a pic of a sumptuous-looking turkey, as well as his packed dinner plate.

'Nope it wasn't me who cooked,' he admitted, adding: 'But I ate!!'

Other plans for the day included watching the Macy's Thanksgiving Parade, as evidenced by a shot of an enormous TV at the foot of his bed.

It will be back to work for Tom on Sunday however when the AFC East-topping Patriots play last placed New York Jets.

Yum: The NFL star seemed equally proud of the menu on the day, sharing a pic of a sumptuous-looking turkey, as well as his packed dinner plate

====== 174 ========

MICHAEL DOUGLAS WORRIES HIS CHILDREN WITH CATHERINE ZETA JONES MAY HAVE INHERITED ADDICTION GENES

Michael Douglas has shared his concerns that his teenage children will inherit the same 'addiction gene' he has had to battle throughout his life.

The actor, 74, shares two children with wife Catherine Zeta Jones; son Dylan, 18, and daughter Carys, 15, and has confessed in an interview with The Mirror that he 'worries' they will be plagued with the same battles he has had to endure.

Douglas has previously been to rehab for alcohol and drug addiction, his eldest son Cameron, 39, has battled a heroin addiction, while his half-brother Eric Douglas sadly died from an accidental overdose aged 46 in 2004.

Worried for his kids: Michael Douglas has expressed his fears that his two children with wife Catherine Zeta Jones may have inherited genes that make them predisposition to addictions

Expressing his fears that his teenage children could face the same troubles, Michael confessed: 'You have to be careful, so you learn about genetics. It's on both sides of my family - so with my younger ones, they keep a much closer eye on it.'

The Wall Street star revealed he has 'ongoing conversations' with his children about addiction, as he recalled his own experience with it over the years.

'I was in rehab in 1991, probably more alcohol but drugs were a part of it. I lost my brother and my eldest boy spent seven and a half years in federal prison for a non-violent drug offence - now he is fine, doing really well.'

Michael entered rehab to fulfill a 30-day treatment for alcoholism and drug addiction.

Issues: Douglas, 74, is dad to son Dylan, 18, and daughter Carys, 15, pictured with him at LAX this week.' (Addiction is) is on both sides of my family so with my younger ones, they keep a much closer eye on it. I have ongoing conversations about it,' he explained

Troubled: The Hollywood star's eldest son from his first marriage - Cameron, 39 - was a heroin addict and served seven and a half years in prison for drug-related crimes. He's pictured with his famous dad and famous granddad Kirk earlier this month

Speaking about his previous rehab stay to Daily Mail, Douglas said: 'I had an alcohol issue - I’d just lost my stepfather and it was a good rehab session; it certainly helped me find out a couple of things.'

His son Cameron, also an actor, who Michael shares with his first wife Diandra Luker, battled a heroin addiction and served time in prison for drug-related charges.

Cameron, 39, has now turned his life around, according to his famous father, and last December he and his girlfriend Viviane Thibes welcomed a baby boy together.

Speaking about Cameron, Michael has previously blamed himself for his son's troubles, claiming he had been a 'bad father'. Speaking to Today in 2010, the star said: 'I’ve taken blame about being a bad father—if being a bad father is working your butt off trying to create a career at one time.'

A-list couple: Douglas has been married to actress Catherine Zeta Jones since 2000 and they just celebrated their 18th wedding anniversary and his star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame

He added: 'You finally end up with who you choose to hang out with. In Cameron’s position, he took a lot of lowlifes and he was a very attractive target to hang out with, and I don’t think that helped, either… I’m willing to take the hit.'

Meanwhile, in 2010, Douglas was diagnosed with tongue cancer and his treatment and recovery placed enormous stress on his relationship with his actress wife Catherine.

Zeta Jones checked herself in to hospital for treatment for depression in 2011 and again in 2013 and has spoken publicly about dealing with bipolar II disorder.

Sharing a statement about her diagnosis, Catherine explained: '[Bipolar] is something I have been dealing with for a long time. When you get sideswiped like that [with husband Michael’s illness] it’s an obvious trigger for your balance to be a little bit off – not sleeping, worry, stress. It’s a classic trigger.

Next generation: Both Dylan and Carys want to follow their parents into the acting business. And Douglas told ET recently that he has one piece of advice for them: 'Don't do it if the only thing that's going to make you happy is being a star'

'I never wanted to be as open about it as I was. I have a British stiff-upper-lip mentality – it wasn’t something I wanted to shout from the rooftops, but when it did come to light, I know I’m not the only person who suffers with it or has to deal with it on a day-to-day basis. So if I’ve helped anybody by discussing bipolar or depression, that’s great.'

The A-list couple celebrated their 18th wedding anniversary this month and it's been claimed their kids want to follow their parents into the acting business.

Sharing his advice for his brood, Douglas told ET recently: 'Don't do it if the only thing that's going to make you happy is being a star.'

He went on: 'You gotta just love acting. The odds are so tough as it is, but if you have that passion, that joy. Look [at] me! I'm in my seventies now and it's so great.'

His latest role is as an aging acting coach on the Netflix original series the Kominsky Method in which he stars with Alan Arkin.

====== 175 ========

MADONNA SHARES THANKSGIVING PHOTO OF ALL SIX CHILDREN IN MALAWI

Madonna has shared a rare of all six of her children together as they celebrate Thanksgiving in Malawi.

The 60-year-old pop icon accompanied the snap with a gushing post about her love for them and said her career doesn't come close to what they mean to her.

She captioned the image with the words: 'What I am Most THANKFUL for! My Children have led me down roads and opened doors I never imagined I’d walk through.

Her family: Madonna shared a rare photo of all SIX of her children as they spend Thanksgiving in Malawi, (top L-R) Mercy, Rocco, Lourdes, David, (bottom L-R) Stella and Esther

'Fame , Fortune and Records Broken could never equal that which I treasure and value most. #blessed #grateful #family #Happy ThanksGiving from Malawi!'

Madonna's eldest daughter, Lourdes, 22, from her relationship with dancer Carlos Leon, 52, wore a red strappy dress as she put her arms around one of the twins.

She stood next to Rocco, 18, from Madonna's marriage to film director Guy Ritchie, 50. He wore a vintage inspired ensemble and dark sunglasses.

Love: She said: 'Fame , Fortune and Records Broken could never equal that which I treasure and value most. #blessed #grateful #family #Happy ThanksGiving from Malawi'

In 2006, Madonna adopted David Banda, now 13, from the Home of Hope in Malawi. He was battling pneumonia and malaria at the time.

She said at the time that she struggled with the criticism she faced when adopting the little boy she was trying to save.

In an interview with PEOPLE, she said some time later: 'In my mind, I was thinking, "Wait a minute. I’m trying to save somebody’s life. Why are you all s****ing on me right now?’ I did everything by the book.'

The singer also told the publication that it was a 'low point' in her life and every night, she would 'cry herself to sleep.'

David is a keen footballer and in August 2017, Madonna moved to Lisbon after David joined the Benfica football team youth academy.

The singer adopted keen dancer Mercy James, pictured with Rocco's arm around her, three years later - she wears a cream and black tea dress.

And last year, Madonna adopted cheeky twins Estere and and Stella Mwale.

She often posts pictures of them on her Instagram singing and dancing to music and wearing matching outfits.

====== 176 ========

AUSTRALIAN ACTORS NAOMI WATTS AND NICOLE KIDMAN CELEBRATE THANKSGIVING IN THE US

They might hail from the land Down Under, but that hasn't stopped Australia's biggest celebrities from celebrating Thanksgiving in the US.

Actress Naomi Watts, 50, led the Australian stars celebrating the American holiday, with the likes of Nicole Kidman and Teresa Palmer also marking the day.

The Ring star Naomi took to Instagram on Thursday, to share a simple snap of herself rugged up in a plaid coat with a beanie on and cosying up to her pet dog.

'Grateful for so much!' Naomi Watts (pictured) and Nicole Kidman lead the Australian stars celebrating Thanksgiving in the US... as pregnant Teresa Palmer bakes vegan banana bread with her family

In her caption, she wrote, 'Happy thanksgiving everyone. Thankful and Grateful for so much... Love to all xxx.'

Her close friend and fellow actor Nicole Kidman, 51, also marked the special day with a greeting on her social media.

The Academy Award winner wrote: 'Happy Thanksgiving everyone! I'm so thankful for my loved ones and all of you xx.'

Her husband Keith Urban, 51, followed suit with his own Instagram message of gratitude to his legions of fans.

Thankful: Her close friend and fellow actor Nicole Kidman (pictured) also marked the special day with a greeting on her social media. In her Instagram post, she wrote: 'Happy Thanksgiving everyone! I'm so thankful for my loved ones and all of you xx'

Holiday: Her husband Keith Urban (pictured) followed suit with his own message of gratitude to his legions of fans. The country music superstar said: 'Happy Thanksgiving!!! We are so thankful for all of YOU! #GraffitiUWorldTour'

The country music superstar said, 'Happy Thanksgiving!!! We are so thankful for all of YOU! #GraffitiUWorldTour.'

Pregnant actress Teresa Palmer, 32, spent the holiday with her husband Mark Webber and their two sons Forest, two, and Bodhi, four.

In her caption of her candid family photo she wrote that she was thankful for many of things, in particular her family, friends and for her soon-to-be born daughter.

She also shared an adorable clip on her Instagram Story of her sons attempting to smash bananas for her vegan banana bread.

Family time: Pregnant actress Teresa Palmer (pictured) spent the holiday with her husband Mark Webber and their two sons Forest, two, and Bodhi, four. In her caption she wrote that she was thankful for many of things, in particular her family, friends and for her soon-to-be born daughter

Helping hands: She also shared an adorable clip of her sons attempting to smash bananas for her vegan banana bread

'Thankful everything in my life!' Catwoman star Ruby Rose (pictured) kept her message simple and sweet sharing a short clip of her pet dog (right)

Catwoman star Ruby Rose, 32, kept her social media message simple and sweet sharing a short clip of her pet dogs.

She also posted a snap of actress Elizabeth Banks' list of things she's thankful for and added she was thankful for, 'everything in my life, my friends, my family, my dogs and my job.'

Extra TV presenter Renee Bargh, 32, celebrated thanksgiving with with rumoured beau, actor Glen Powell, 30, and his family.

Meeting the family? Extra TV presenter Renee Bargh (left) celebrated thanksgiving with with rumoured beau, actor Glen Powell (right) and his family

Sweet treats: She posted a photo of sumptuous selection of desserts including a pumpkin pie

She took to Instagram to post a photo of sumptuous selection of desserts including a pumpkin pie.

Former Neighbours star Olympia Valance, 25, celebrated her first Thanksgiving with friends.

Her holiday feast included roast vegetables, beans, stuffing and the all important turkey.

Yum! Former Neighbours star Olympia Valance (pictured) celebrated her first Thanksgiving with friends

Delicious: Olympia's holiday feast included roast vegetables, beans, stuffing and the all important turkey

'Forever thankful': Bindi Irwin, who is half-American through her mother Terri, also marked the holiday with a photo of herself, her mum, younger brother Bob, boyfriend Chandler and a friend from Australia Zoo (pictured)

Bindi Irwin, who is half-American through her mother Terri, also marked the holiday with a photo of herself, her mum, younger brother Bob, boyfriend Chandler and a friend from Australia Zoo.

In the caption, the wildlife warrior, 20, wrote, 'Forever thankful. #MyEverything.'

Shanina Shaik, 27, and her husband DJ Rukus - Gregory Andrews - went all out for the special American holiday.

'Won't be feeling guilty today': Shanina Shaik (left) and her husband DJ Rukus - Gregory Andrews - went all out for the special American holiday. She feasted on a plateful of turkey, steamed beans, spinach, potato bake, corn and corn bread

After months of 'training like an angel' for the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show, she feasted on a plateful of turkey, steamed beans, spinach, potato bake, corn and corn bread.

'Won't be feeling guilty today with all that food in my belly,' the statuesque beauty wrote in reference to Thanksgiving dinner.

While pregnant former Home and Away star Tammin Sursok, 35, shared a sweet selfie of herself with husband Sean and their five-year-old daughter Phoenix, after recalling her heartbreaking miscarriage.

====== 177 ========

PRIYANKA CHOPRA AND NICK JONAS CELEBRATE THANKSGIVING TOGETHER IN INDIA BEFORE TYING THE KNOT

They've already touched down in India where they will be getting married in a little over one week.

Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas celebrated Thanksgiving with a lavish dinner in the actress' home country where they will soon tie the knot.

The bride-to-be took to Instagram with a photo of her giant family enjoying their holiday dinner at an opulent and massive dining table in Delhi on Thursday.

Reasons to be thankful: Priyanka Chopra posted a photo with her whole family, including fiance Nick Jonas, dining on their Thanksgiving dinner at an opulent table in India on Thursday

The 36-year-old Bollywood star and her 26-year-old pop star fiance will wed at a lavish Indian palace on December 1.

Despite being so far away from America, it seemed that Priyanka brought her husband-to-be's national holiday abroad and hosted Thanksgiving dinner with her family.

In a dimly lit photo, Nick smiled seated at the head of a romantically lit outdoor dining table.

His future wife sat to his right and held his hands while grinning broadly for the camera.

In love: A week before saying 'I do,' Priyanka took to Instagram to post a loved up photo with fiance Nick

Chandeliers and swagged drapery hung above over 40 people who were seated at a huge and ornate outdoor dining table.

'Happy thanksgiving,' the future Mrs. Jonas wrote in the caption.

Adding: 'family.. forever..'

Earlier in the day, the couple looked like they've already entered the honeymoon stage in another photo that the blushing bride-to-be posted on Instagram after Nick arrived in India.

Bride goals: Nick and Priyanka will wed at a lavish palace in India on December 1

In the photo, the future Mr and Mrs were shot in an extreme close up, nuzzling one another with their eyes closed.

The couple's expressions are one of pure bliss.

'Welcome home baby,' the Quantico star captioned the image. She added a smiling emoji with heart eyes,

In just a handful of days, Priyanka is set to walk down the aisle and say 'I do' at a spectacular $60,000 a night wedding venue in India.

Bridal party! The Quantico star recently enjoyed a lavish bridal shower in New York and then a whirlwind bachelorette party weekend in Amsterdam wiith a small group of friends

The venue is India's last living palace, Umaid Bhawan in Jodhpur, which comes complete with butler service, strutting peacocks and a couple's massage room.

The lavish palace features 65 original Art Deco bedrooms and suites featuring antiques, with each room costing an eye-watering $922 per person per night.

It's been all wedding, all the time for the actress recently who was honored by her friends and family at swanky bridal shower at Tiffany's in New York last month.

Shortly after, she jetted off with a small group to Amsterdam for a whirlwind bachelorette weekend.

Wedding registry: The bride-to-be asked for a few adorable trinkets that read mrs and wifey on their Amazon wedding registry

Sister-in-law-to-be, Sophie Turner, of Game of Thrones fame, was by Priyanka's side during the whole celebration.

Priyanka was also recently tapped by Amazon to display her bridal registry with the online retailer.

The couple listed things like a wifey eye mask and cutlery, as well us more unusual asks like roller blades.

In love! The Jonas Bro popped the question on Priyanka's 36th birthday in London

Nick recently gifted his groomsmen electric scooters. The musician decided to give his party of ushers and his best man an unusual gift to mark the special occasion.

Posting a picture of himself next to a pool, surrounded by six Lime scooters, he wrote: "I was searching for a fun way for my groomsmen to be mobile and ready to roll - so I called up my friends at @Limebikefor some help... #groomsmengift #CitrusGotReal (sic)"

The post - which was a paid promotion with the Lime bike brand - had his three brothers Kevin, Joe, and Frankie, as well as Priyanka's brother Siddharth, and actor Jonathan Tucker all tagged as each of the scooters, suggesting they will make up his groomsmen.

Nick popped the question in London during Priyanka's 36th birthday just three months ago after dating since May of 2017.

====== 178 ========

ARIANA GRANDE SHARES THROWBACK THANKSGIVING PHOTO WITH MAC MILLER SAYING LATE RAPPER IS 'V MISSED'

Thanksgiving prompted some heartbreaking reflection for Ariana Grande.

The pop star, 25, was reminiscing abut her relationship with her late ex-boyfriend Mac Miller who died of a drugs overdose a little over three months after the pair split up.

Ariana posted a throwback photo from Thanksgiving 2017 showing her and Mac together.

'v missed': Thanksgiving prompted some heartbreaking reflection for Ariana Grande. The pop star, 25, shared a throwback photo from a year ago showing her with then boyfriend Mac Miller

The snap has a Thanksgiving-themed filter and was originally captioned with: 'a pie.'

In posting it Thursday, she changed the caption to: 'You're v missed.'

Ariana and Mac dated for almost two years before they broke up, with the Dangerous Woman hitmaker announcing the end of the romance in May.

Two months later, she announced her engagement to SNL castmember Pete Davidson.

Lost love: Mac died September 7 from a drugs overdose at the age of 26. The pair had dated for almost two years when Ariana announced their split last May

Rapper Mac was found dead at his Los Angeles-area home on September 7. He was 26.

The next month Ariana split from Pete, calling off their engagement.

Since then, Ariana has released a new single called Thank U, Next, that details her past relationships.

She directly references both her relationships with Pete and Mac in the song, as lyrics include: 'Thought I'd end up with Sean/ But it wasn't a match/ Wrote some songs about Ricky/ Now I listen and laugh.'

Over: Ariana went on to date SNL's Pete Davidson, getting engaged just two months after her breakup with Mac. She called off their engagement in October just weeks after Mac's death

During the past week, Ariana has been teasing elements of her new music video for Thank U, Next on her social media.

She's revealed it will have elements of Hollywood movies Mean Girls, Legally Blonde and 13 Going On 30.

And on Wednesday, she confirmed that the final film she'd be honoring would be Bring It On.

Taking to social media, the 25-year-old pop star shared various shots of herself in a cheerleading uniform uniform and added the caption: 'I transferred from los angeles, your school has no gymnastics team this issaalast resort ........ ok i've never cheered before so what?'

It's a quote from the 200 movie spoken by star Eliza Dushku.

New hit: During the past week, Ariana has been teasing elements on social media of her new music video for Thank U, Next. On Wednesday, she revealed she'll pay homage to Bring It On

====== 179 ========

MEL B SHARES SWEET PICTURE THANKING MUM ANDREA FOR 'MONEY FOR THE BUS FARE' FOR SPICE GIRLS AUDITION

She's famously had a difficult relationship with her mother.

And Mel B took to Instagram to share a throwback picture of herself and mum Andrea Brown with a sweet caption thanking her for believing in her over the years.

The 43-year-old shared the picture with her 1.4 million followers on Thursday which showed her sitting on her mum's lap as she thanked her for getting her to her Spice Girls audition, when she was 19, all those years ago.

Happy family: Mel B took to Instagram on Thursday to share an old picture of with her mum Andrea Brown as she praised her for always believing in her... and getting her to the Spice Girls audition

Old school: Mel B has given fans a Spice Girls throwback to remember, taking to Instagram to share a snap with her fresh-faced bandmates of decades past

She praised her mother for supporting her career ambitions with the caption: 'I told my mum I wanted to be a dancer..she bought me dance shoes.

'I told my mum I was going to audition to be one of the Von Trapps (the white kids) in The Sound Of Music - she packed my lunch and took me there [sic].

'I told my mum I wanted to audition for a girl group that became The Spice Girls she gave me the bus fare and wished me good luck.

'Its soooo important to Believe in your kids [sic]. I tell my girls they can do anything,' she ended the post with a promotional message for her upcoming biography.

Like mother like daughter: Mel and her mother famously had a troubled relationship but they appear to have healed their rift - (pictured 2017)

The sentimental post, which racked up thousands of likes on Instagram, came after Mel and Andrea's difficult relationship was made public earlier this year.

Andrea accused Mel of ignoring repeated requests to visit her father Martin, who lost his five year battle with cancer in March 2017.

She went on to write an email to her daughter and said: 'You may want to look up narcissism you have all the symptoms of it and there is help out there if you want it'.

Despite the strong words, the pair celebrated Mel's daughter Angel's birthday together in April and seem to have put the past behind them.

Mel is mum to Phoenix, 19, Angel, 11, and Madison, seven.

All smiles: Mel, pictured with daughter Phoenix in 2017, tells her daughters 'they can do anything'

Mel earlier took to Instagram to share her excitement over the upcoming Spice Girls tour.

She gave fans a throwback to remember on Instagram on Thursday with a snap of her fresh-faced bandmates of decades past.

In the snap Mel gushed that she and the band 'never gave up' in their mission to become pop stars, as more than 20 years on fans anticipate their summer reunion tour (withoutVictoria Beckham).

In the snap, Mel, Geri Horner, Emma Bunton, Victoria and Mel C can be seen pulling an array of expressions, showing they all shared a close friendship even before their big break as a girl band.

Mel used the caption to speak candidly about how the band stayed focused on making it big in the music industry even at such a young age, as Girl Power reigned supreme due to their close friendship.

It read: 'Ahhhh My girls the @SpiceGirls!!

Back in the day: In the post, Mel gushed about 'never giving up' as her band vowed to break the big time, adding that 'Girl Power' kept them going (above in 1996)

'All we wanted was for someone to believe in us the Spice Girls coz we all knew we had what it took and much much more.

'We just needed that door to open to spread out our message we waited with such ambition and never gave up,plus we had each other.

'Girl Power is all about being there for each other in the tough times as well as the amazing times,' ending the post with a promotional message for her autobiography.

Back together: Mel's snap comes after it was confirmed that the band would be reuniting as a foursome for a tour in summer 2019, though Victoria Beckham would not be taking part

The Spice Girls finally earned their big break in 1996, as their debut single Wannabe led them to international stardom.

The throwback comes as fans await the band's long-awaited reunion for a tour in summer next year, following months of speculation over how they would be coming back together.

Following a selfie of all the girls together earlier this year, fans went wild over how the fivesome's reunion would take shape, and whether it would be album, tour, TV special, or something else entirely.

Happy times: The band last came together in 2012 for a one-off performance at the London Olympic closing ceremony

Earlier this month Mel B, Mel C, Emma and Geri confirmed that they would be coming back together for a tour next year, and tickets for the originally eight shows sold out in mere minutes.

Since then the band have added yet more dates totalling twelve shows, playing in areas such as Manchester, London and Cardiff.

However Victoria will be absent from the tour, though she still took time to release a statement regarding the news.

Thrilled: Speculation that the band would reunite had been mounting since 2016, and the news that they would be heading on tour sent fans wild earlier this month

Spice Girls Reunion Tour - The Dates Monday 27th May: Cardiff - Principality Stadium Wednesday 29th May: Manchester - Etihad Stadium Friday 31st May: Manchester - Etihad Stadium Saturday 1st June: Manchester - Etihad Stadium Monday 3rd June: Coventry - Ricoh Stadium Tuesday 4th June: Coventry - Ricoh Stadium Thursday 6th June: Sunderland - Stadium Of Light Saturday 8th June: Edinburgh - BT Murrayfield Stadium Monday 10th June: Bristol - Ashton Gate Stadium Thursday 13th June: London - Wembley Stadium Friday 14th June: London - Wembley Stadium Saturday 15th June: London - Wembley Stadium

Taking to Instagram, she said: 'Being in the Spice Girls was a hugely important part of my life and I wish my girls so much love and fun as they go back on tour,' said the mother-of-four.

'I know they will put on an amazing show and the fantastic fans past and present are going to have a wonderful time!'

Mel B teased that Victoria will be joining them on their Wembley date, but her spokesperson has insisted she was just being playful.

Meanwhile, Mel C recently revealed during an interview with the Spice Girls on the Jonathan Ross Show that Victoria pointed out she was 'never actually asked' if she wanted to return to the girlband.

She explained: 'Do you know what is actually quite funny… I saw Victoria recently and obviously we’ve all been in contact, she is still very much a part of the Spice Girls, she really supports us and we really support her.

'But she did raise the point that she was never actually asked. We just presumed.'

This caused an interjection from Emma, in disagreement to Mel, insisting that she was indeed asked.

Free agent: Victoria, 44, confirmed in a statement that she would not be joining the band on their 2019 tour

'She just didn’t want to do it… She was busy with her fashion and she has moved on.

'The philosophy of us lot is that we are a band, on and off the stage and we care each other, we support each other and we support her and she has been a huge part of our lives and we care about her so it’s all good.'

Geri added: 'I spoke to her two days ago, before the announcement, and she has said it for years that she just doesn’t want to do it anymore, so we knew that.'

Since the girls' last reformation - 2012's performance at the London Olympic Games closing ceremony - rumours have swirled about the band's potential reformation for a full tour, sparking further whispers that Victoria was never a fan of performing.

Geri cleared this matter up when asked by Jonathan: 'No, and you don’t want to make somebody do something they don’t want to do.'

====== 180 ========

BLAKE LIVELY TURNS HERSELF INTO A MEME FOR THANKSGIVING

Blake Lively has joined the world of memes with her own hilarious expectation versus reality example to show followers what she is up to this Thanksgiving.

The 31-year-old actress shared a picture of herself on Thursday in her stunning Versace Met Gala gown from earlier this year that took an astounding 600 hours for people to embroider.

Included in the picture was the star looking regal as she sat among food at the event in May. But then the second picture Black shared showed what Thanksgiving might actually be like in her household.

Stunning: Blake Lively, 31, celebrated the Thanksgiving holiday by making her own meme of expectation versus reality. Pictured is her expectation image from the Met Gala in May

True: The reality pictures shows the actress indulging in a backseat full of takeout with no makeup on and the top button of her jeans unbuttoned

Instead of looking regal in red, the second picture showed Blake in the backseat of a car surrounded by takeout containers.

While the first picture features the mother of two with her hair and makeup all put together, the second one shows Blake with her blonde locks down and a makeup-free complexion.

For the caption, Blake wrote: 'Thanksgiving: EXPECTATION vs REALITY...'

It remains unclear what Blake and her husband, Ryan Reynolds, have planned for the festive holiday; however, most agreed it has to do with some delicious food, whether it be a feast or takeout.

Fans praised the star for her hilarious post and exclaimed how beautiful Blake looked in both posts.

'Me too,' one fan wrote agreeing their Thanksgiving was more like the reality picture. 'I wish I looked that good eating a burger.'

Another fan wrote: 'And she still looks glamorous. Blake can never fail.'

Love: Blake, who is married to Ryan Reynolds (pictured) , was praised by fans online for her hilarious Instagram post on the holiday

Relatable: Both she and her husband are known for their online humor including each of them hilariously trolling each other with funny comments

'Oof I feel you on a spiritual level,' another fan wrote in agreement.

One person pointed out how the reality version looks better anyway because the outfit Blake was wearing, jeans with the top button undone and a tank top, appeared more comfortable than her gorgeous gown to eat in.

'Honestly reality looks waaaay better—at least you’ll be able to breathe after eating!! Corsets/spanx wouldn’t be my choice for turkey day,' the fan commented on the Instagram picture.

A majority of people were in agreement they were more like the reality picture instead of dressing up for the holiday.

It should come as no surprise Blake would want to create her own meme as she is known for posting hilarious content online. This includes trolling Ryan in comments and captions.

Now all fans want is for Ryan to come up with a hilarious post or comment of his own to make fans' holiday all the better.

====== 181 ========

MEGAN GALE REVEALS SHE WILL BE TEACHING HER TWO YOUNG CHILDREN TO SPEAK ITALIAN

She spent many years modelling in Italy where she became a household name.

And on Friday, Australian stunner Megan Gale revealed she is teaching her two young children how to speak Italian.

The 43-year-old was asked by a fan on her Instagram Story on Friday, if she spoke Italian to son River, four, and daughter, Rosie, one.

Big in Italy! Megan Gale reveals she will be teaching her two young children to speak Italian after she became an an overnight celebrity in the Mediterranean nation

'With River yes a little bit,' she replied and added, 'Rosie is still a bit young but I will try and teach her too.'

Megan now enjoys a quieter life in Melbourne where she is based with her partner, AFL star Shaun Thompson and their two children.

The Perth-born stunner's modelling career kicked off in Italy started when she cast in a commercial for local phone network Omnitel in 1999, which was a hit with Italians - making her an overnight celebrity.

Learning the language: The 43-year-old was asked by a fan on her Instagram Story, on Friday, if she spoke Italian to son River, four, and daughter, Rosie, one

Bi-lingual babies: 'With River yes a little bit,' she replied. The statuesque stunner added, 'Rosie is still a bit young but I will try and teach her too'

She split time between Australia and Italy, but eventually relocated Italy where she was booking more jobs, including shoots with publications such as Vogue Italia, GQ and Maxim.

Earlier in the question and answer session, another fan asked her if she enjoyed her experience in Italy.

'Yes it was amazing. It overwhelmed me at times... to be come famous to 60 million people overnight is a shock to the system of a 22 year-old girl far away from home,' she said.

She's popular! The Perth-born stunner's modelling career kicked off in Italy started when she cast in a commercial for local phone network Omnitel in 1999, which was a hit with Italians - making her an overnight celebrity. Megan is pictured in 2002

Successful: The model returned to Australia in 2005 for a career in TV presenting programs such as Getaway and Australia's Next Top Model. Megan is pictured in 2003

'Forever grateful': Another fan asked Megan if she enjoyed her experience in Italy, she call it 'One of the best experience of my life and I miss it a lot'

Megan said she was 'forever grateful for the experience' of learning the culture, the language and the Italian way of life.

'One of the best experience of my life and I miss it a lot. But so happy to be back and settled in Oz,' she added.

Megan later landed a TV presenting role with travel program Getaway from 2005 to 2006 and became a swimwear designer, launching her label Isola in 2010.

Megan also host Project Runway Australia in 2011 and became a judge on Australia's Next Top Model in 2016.

====== 182 ========

KOURTNEY KARDASHIAN AND SCOTT DISICK WEAR MATCHING PAJAMAS

They're both in relationships with other people.

But exes Kourtney Kardashian and Scott Disick showed that their co-parenting games is strong on Thursday, as the pair posed for a Thanksgiving snap with their three kids.

The 39-year-old reality TV star wore green camouflage patterned winter pajamas for the lovely photo, while her 35-year-old ex wore shorts with a matching pattern.

Getting on: Exes Kourtney Kardashian and Scott Disick showed that their co-parenting games is strong on Thursday, as the pair posed for a Thanksgiving snap with their three kids

The cute former couple were joined by their three children, son Mason, eight, daughter Penelope, six, and youngest son Reign, three.

The kids wore their own matching pajamas, different from those worn by their mom and dad.

Kourtney and Scott, who were introduced in 2006 by Girls Gone Wild founder Joe Francis in Mexico, last ended their romantic relationship in July of 2015.

However both of the Keeping Up With The Kardashian stars have moved on in their romantic lives, with Scott dating Sofia Richie and Kourtney most recently linked with Luka Sabbat.

New man: Kourtney is rumored to have split with her most recent fling Luka Sabbat, 20. The pair seen here earlier this month

Disick has been dating the 20-year-old daughter of crooner Lionel Richie for over a year now.

Meanwhile Kourtney is rumored to have split with her most recent fling Luka Sabbat, 20.

People magazine reported that Kourtney and Luka had chosen to go their separate ways but still remain on friendly terms with one another.

A source told the publication that 'it was a fun fling for her, but not a big deal,' referring to Kourtney and what she supposedly made of the relationship.

Sofia Richie: Disick has been dating the 20-year-old daughter of crooner Lionel Richie for over a year now. The couple seen here last Friday

====== 183 ========

ALEX RODRIGUEZ CUDDLES IN BED WITH JENNIFER LOPEZ AND THEIR FOUR CHILDREN ON THANKSGIVING

He's in the midst of a child support battle with his ex-wife.

Alex Rodriguez wanted his 2M Instagram followers to know just what he was thankful for this holiday.

The former slugger shared a sweet black and white snap cuddled up with Jennifer Lopez and their four collective children in bed on Thursday.

Thankful: Alex Rodriguez shared a sweet black and white snap cuddled up with Jennifer Lopez and their four collective children in bed on Thursday

'Thankful for mornings like this with the ones I love most,' the 43-year-old wrote in the caption.

Adding: 'I am truly blessed. #HappyThanksgiving to all of you and your families. #gratitude'

In the image, a makeup-free Jennifer Lopez laid one side of a comfy bed nuzzling her 10-year-old twins, Max and Emme.

Happy Thanksgiving: The slugger shared some intimate snaps of his love, JLo, at home on the holiday

Stunning: The ageless beauty was dressed casually as she showed off their holiday decor

Pumpkin patch: The couple decorated with a mini pumpkin patch in the back yard of their Hampton's home

Next to them cuddled Alex's two daughters Ella, 10, and Natasha, 14.

The former Yankee bookended the group on the other side of the bed planting a kiss on Natasha's head.

The couple is preparing to spend a big family Thanksgiving together.

Rodriguez shared a series of snaps on social media of their Hampton, New York home ready for the holiday.

'I am truly blessed:' The Yankee wrote on social media that he was grateful for Jennifer and their blended family

One big happy family: The power couple shares children from their previous marriages, 10-year-old twins, Max and Emme and Ella, 10, and Natasha, 14

Swanky! Arod showed off the back yard of the couple's Hamptons home which was ready to host holiday revelers

A single white pumpkin sat at the center of a huge dining room table with a burlap runner in one shot that he captioned, 'calm before the storm.'

He also posted a photo from their impeccably styled, cozy living room showing that the temperature in New York is below freezing.

Out back, a video of the yard revealed several portable heaters set up under a banner of string lights.

Family time: After dating nearly two years, the couple is getting serious and spending the holidays together

So cold: Temps on the East Coast have dipped below freezing

J-Lo stepped outside with her curly hair cut into a bob and dressed in a patriotic cream turtleneck sweater with an American flag on the front and a pair of wide leg jeans.

'I send them on searches for this stuff,' she said to her beau while shifting a display of pumpkins with a sneaker clad foot.

Alex and Jenny from the Block have been practically inseparable since they started dating in 2017.

Their relationship has recently gone a step too far for the baseball star's ex-wife and mother of his girls.

Too close for comfort: Recently Lopez reportedly stepping into her beau's ongoing custody battle with his ex-wife

The On the Six singer apparently got involved with the former couple's parenting by inserting herself into ongoing child support negotiations between Rodriguez and ex Cynthia Scurtis.

It seems Lopez attended a meeting between the two parties on September 13th, and wasn't shy when it came to getting involved.

Sources told Page Six that 'JLo's presence blindsided Cynthia,' and at one point even persuaded the retired slugger to leave the room.

Not good: His ex, Cynthia Scurtis, was reportedly furious that Lopez inserted herself in their personal problems

Things went from bad to worse when Lopez allegedly suggested that Rodriguez should only pay $10,000 in child support a month, instead of the approximately $100,000 he has been paying.

Negotiations were scheduled to continue to the next day, but were seemingly abandoned following the conflict.

A-Rod was wed to Scurtis from 2002-2008 and he's reportedly been paying his ex $115,000 a month tax free in combined spousal and child support since their divorce.

====== 184 ========

BEBE REXHA JOINS FELLOW SONGSTRESS DUA LIPA FOR DINNER

They are both internationally acclaimed singer songwriters.

And Bebe Rexha and Dua Lipa looked stylish as they joined forces for a dinner at London hotspot Sketch on Friday.

Bebe, 29, flaunted her toned curves in a hot pink satin mini dress, which cinched in at her slender waist with a chunky leather belt.

Stars: Bebe Rexha and Dua Lipa looked stylish as they joined forces for a dinner at London hotspot Sketch on Friday

The high-necked dress cut high to show off the star's lithe pins and she added extra height with black knee high boots embellished with pearls.

Her platinum tresses were styled in 50s inspired coiffed curls while her pretty features were enhanced with a rich palette of make-up.

One Kiss hitmaker Dua, 23, rocked a quirky ensemble of a lime green top paired with chestnut PVC trousers, paired with fluffy pink stilettos.

She wrapped up against the wintry chill in a chocolate furry jacket.

Strut: Bebe, 29, flaunted her toned curves in a hot pink satin mini dress, which cinched in at her slender waist with a chunky leather belt

Hot pink: The high-necked dress cut high to show off the star's lithe pins and she added extra height with black knee high boots embellished with pearls

Her tresses were worn sleek and straight while a natural palette of make-up enhanced her pretty features.

Dua has been on a high this month, and recently jetted to Bilbao, Spain for the MTV EMAs, where she scooped the Best Pop award.

She also picked up the Award for best International Music at the 2018 BAMBI awards ceremony in Berlin, Germany, earlier this month.

And her gongs didn't stop there, as the star was nominated for a staggering six gongs at the NRJ Music Awards, and took home the Most Streamed Song award for her chart-topping hit, One Kiss, on the night.

Pose: Her platinum tresses were styled in 50s inspired coiffed curls while her pretty features were enhanced with a rich palette of make-up

Radiant: The star showed off her style flair as she headed to dinner

While Bebe has become known for her edgy sense of style, catchy pop tunes and stellar songwriting skills since she burst onto the music scene in 2013.

But the singer has revealed she once sold perfume to Rihanna, just one year before writing the singer's number one track The Monster.

She told Good Morning Britain: 'I actually sold perfume to Rihanna, funnily enough.

Chic: One Kiss hitmaker Dua, 23, rocked a quirky ensemble of a lime green top paired with chestnut PVC trousers, paired with fluffy pink stilettos

'Saks Fifth Avenue, the Harrods of the US, she came to the counter with red lipstick, sunglasses on, I had no idea that a year later I would have written a Number 1 song she would have been on. It changed my life completely.'

One year later the pair's paths would collide when Bebe's track The Monster was recorded by Eminem and Rihanna, topping the UK and US singles charts.

Bebe has written several songs for other artists - including Like a Champion for Selena Gomez and Eminem and Rihanna's 'The Monster' before signing her own record deal.

She started off her career six years ago when she joined the group Black Cards as lead vocalist- which was formed by Fall Out Boy's Pete Wentz.

====== 185 ========

DAVID TENNANT SINGS IN THE SHOWER TO JOIN JENNIFER GARNER AND CAMPING CAST IN SPOOF VIDEO

The cast of HBO's new comedy series Camping have proved their comedy chops, as they perform in their own DIY music video to Taylor Dayne's Tell It To My Heart.

Jennifer Garner and David Tennant joined their cast members Bridget Everett, Ione Skye, Brett Gelman, Chris Sullivan, Cheyenne Haynes, Arturo Del Puerto and Juliette Lewis to shoot their own videos which were then edited together for hilarious results.

The Doctor Who star, 47, put on a particularly animated display, as he performed while in the shower and using the shower head as a microphone.

Wow! David Tennant sent fans wild as he sang in the SHOWER for spoof music video of Tell It To My Heart with Jennifer Garner and Camping cast, which was released on Monday

David, apparently completely nude, showed off his dance moves as he sang the 80's pop song passionately.

Staring deeply into the camera as he performed, the actor even used the shower head as a make-shift guitar for the song's instrumental interlude.

Jennifer, meanwhile, opted for a more demure outing for the music video, as she rocked out to the song whilst cleaning dishes.

The Alias star wore a blue apron over a white turtleneck shirt, and she even head-banged to the beat.

Multi-tasking: Jennifer, meanwhile, opted for a more demure outing for the music video, as she rocked out to the song whilst cleaning dishes

Going all out: David, apparently completely nude, showed off his dance moves as he sang the 80's pop song passionately

Jennifer plays 'obsessively organized and aggressively controlling' Kathryn McSorley-Jodell in the show, as she tries to organise her husband Walt -played by David- a 45th birthday party with a camping trip.

It was Juliette who put on the biggest show, as she danced around her house and even sported a white motorbike helmet as she danced around.

Bridget sang with gusto, using a pink fan as a prop for the more intense moments in the pop song.

Passionate: It was Juliette Lewis who put on the biggest show, as she danced around her house and even sported a white motorbike helmet as she danced around

Into it: Bridget Everett sang with gusto, using a pink fan as a prop for the more intense moments in the pop song

Cheyenne performed with a beautiful mountainous landscape behind her, as she danced by and in a large pool while dressed in a floral bikini.

Ione danced around outside in what appeared to be a cemetery, and she sang passionately with the camera following her around.

Arturo sported a pair of stylish sunglasses as he sang to the song in the back of a car, and at one point that even danced with his dog.

Sporty: Cheyenne Haynes performed with a beautiful mountainous landscape behind her, as she danced by and in a large pool while dressed in a floral bikini

Production: Ione Skye danced around outside in what appeared to be a cemetery, and she sang passionately with the camera following her around

Chris performed while sitting back on a sofa with his camera right up to his face, zooming in and out dramatically during the performance.

While Brett chose to perform in a similar way to David, as he sat topless on a bed and serenaded to the camera.

This is not the first time the cast for Camping have put on a musical number, as Juliette and Jennifer recorded a fun behind-the-scenes video were they danced to Friday Night Anthem.

Pet shop boys: Arturo Del Puerto sported a pair of stylish sunglasses as he sang to the song in the back of a car, and at one point that even danced with his dog

Up close and personal: Chris Sullivan performed while sitting back on a sofa with his camera right up to his face, zooming in and out dramatically during the performance

====== 186 ========

HODA CELEBRATES THANKSGIVING WITH HALEY JOY BEFORE ANCHORING THE PARADE IN NYC

There are no days off for Hoda Kotb as she braved the winter chill in New York City to co-anchor the coldest Macy's Thanksgiving parade ever with Savannah Guthrie.

Ahead of the holiday, Hoda shared sweet snaps on Wednesday hanging out with her adopted daughter, Haley Joy, and other children indoors away from the winter cold.

Besides the heartwarming snap with her daugther, Hoda also shared a picture of her brother Adel holding one-year-old Haley while wishing him a happy birthday.

Thankful: Hoda Kotb, 54, shared a sweet snap with her daughter, Haley Joy, on Wednesday ahead of the holiday

Cute: The Today anchor had to brave the cold for the Macy's Thanksgiving parade but first wished her brother Adel a happy birthday on Instagram

All smiles: Hoda and co-anchor Savannah Guthrie, 46, were all smiles in New York City on Thursday despite the blistering cold weather

'Another reason to be thankful! Today is my brother Adel’s bday!!! Xoxo,' Hoda wrote earlier Thursday morning ahead of the parade.

The anchor had to then bundle up for the coldest day in NYC so far this winter season, and she was joined with Savannah, 46, as the two worked the parade for the Today's show's Thanksgiving segment.

Both women were pictured with large smiles plastered on their faces despite the weather being a blistering 25 degrees and windy.

Hoda bundled up with a gray hat and bright red jacket to help brave the cold with thousands of others who wanted to watch the parade from the NYC streets instead of inside a building.

In one sweet video, Savannah showed just how the two women were able to stay warm during the parade, and it was with the help of dancing around to keep their bodies moving.

Although Hoda has brought Haley to other Today Show events, including celebrating International Day of the Girl, it appears the young one might have stayed indoors with family members and watch from the TV instead.

Dance it out: In one fun video, Hoda and Savannah showed fans how they were staying warm through dancing while the parade passed by

Staying warm: Although Hoda has brought her one-year-old daughter to other shows, it appears the young one stayed indoors while the anchor bundled up outside

Surviving: Hoda shared multiple pictures including one with Savannah and Al Roker, 64

Hoda shared multiple pictures from the Thanksgiving parade, including one featuring herself with Savannah and Al Roker, 64, who also braved the cold for the parade.

But the Today show anchors appeared to get the better end of the apparel compared to some who had to walk in the parade or perform.

Dozens of marching bands and performances made the 92nd annual parade one to remember, with special appearances from Diana Ross, John Legend, Bad Bunny, Tracee Ellis Ross, Ella Mai, Martina McBride, Sugarland, Bare Naked Ladies, Pentatonix, Rita Ora, Anika Noni Rose, Kelly Clarkson, Leona Lewis, Ashley Tisdale, Kane Brown, Fifth Harmony, Tina Fey, the Muppets from 'Sesame Street and more.

Dancers and cheerleaders looked colder than others as they wore skirts and tights instead of winter apparel while walking the parade route.

====== 187 ========

SNOOKI'S PREGNANT AGAIN! JERSEY SHORE STAR ANNOUNCES SHE'S EXPECTING THIRD CHILD

Jersey Shore star Snooki has revealed she's pregnant with her third child.

The 30-year-old made the announcement on Instagram by sharing a photo of her five-year-old son Lorenzo and three-year-old daughter Giovanna holding a sonogram, along with the caption: 'What I'm thankful for this Thanksgiving.'

The reality star recently revealed that she and husband Jionni LaValle had been trying to expand their family.

Baby joy: Snooki announced she's pregnant with her third child by sharing a photo of her son and daughter holding a sonogram

The MTV star also shared a second, more playful frame, which showed her kids having tantrums over the news.

Snooki, whose real name is Nicole Polizzi, has been open about her desire for a larger family.

Recently, she told Us Weekly that she has a standing date with her husband once a month to get the baby making ball rolling.

After the petite reality star puts her kiddos to bed in the family's New Jersey home, she's a woman on a mission.

Happy news: The reality star previously said that she has been trying unsuccessfully to conceive

Not so happy news: The mother of two shared a second photo of Instagram of her two older children throwing a tantrum about their new little sibling

'We get our wine, we order pizza and then we go into our spare room,' Polizzi told Us.

Adding: 'We stay up till 3 o'clock in the morning just watching Netflix and getting drunk and trying to have a baby.'

