Another bushfire in the same region came close to torching a hospital in Kurri Kurri.

The blaze was eventually brought under control by the fire service, who downgraded it to a non-emergency level on Thursday.

Rural Fire Service Inspector Rolf Poole told residents to keep away from any active fires.

'If people are in the immediate area and they can see the smoke we are asking them to avoid this area completely,' he told Nine News.

'Especially whilst we've got these strong wind conditions.'

NSW director of environmental health Dr Richard Broome said people living in Sydney needed to be cautious for at least another day due to the dust storm.

Dr Broome told news.com.au that NSW was enduring several spots of hazardous weather, as extreme conditions brought bushfire warnings in some areas and snow in others.

Mr Abbott received a 10-year service award for his contribution to the Rural Fire Service in 2015.

Firefighters are stationed in every direction attempting to get the flames under control

Sydney will have a maximum temperature of 25C on Friday, with strong winds of up to 60km/h

====== 2669 ========

HOW TO UP YOUR SUPERANNUATION FUND WITHOUT EATING INTO YOUR SALARY

A retirement fund has announced a fast and easy way to boost superannuation savings without having to sacrifice your salary.

The Guild Retirement Fund's 'Super Super' program acts like a cash rewards program but instead of receiving useless points that expire, members get cash in their super.

GuildSuper spokesperson Greg Everett told Yahoo7 the shop-and-save super rewards program helps people to add to their super balance through shopping.

Scroll down for video

A retirement fund has announced a fast and easy way to boost superannuation savings without having to sacrifice your salary

The Guild Retirement Fund's 'Super Super' program acts like a cash rewards program but instead of receiving useless points that expire, members get cash in their super

'Most people are on track to have less than half of what they need in superannuation at retirement, so we need to find innovative ways to enable our members to save more,' Mr Everett said.

While the concept is designed for everyone, the company's website states the program is supposed to make super saving easier and fairer for women.

The way it works is simple: Members purchase gift cards from various retailers and when they spend in store or online, they receive cash returns in their super account.

Unlike other credit card loyalty programs, where the money generally goes back to the bank, as much as eight per cent of the shopping total will end up as super cash.

According to GuildSuper, if a 33-year-old woman spends about $200 on her weekly shop, by using the program she will earn about $43 per month in super savings.

Add another $50 a week for petrol, which adds an extra $10 to her super balance, and by the time she is aged 67 she will have potentially saved an extra $20,400.

Childcare worker and GuildSuper member Sarah Tullberg (pictured) said the 'Super Super' rewards program is a great way to increase super savings without trying

Childcare worker and GuildSuper member Sarah Tullberg told Yahoo7 the 'Super Super' rewards program is a great way to increase super savings without trying.

'[The program is a] fantastic way of getting extra contributions into your super without having to take it out of your pay,' Ms Tullberg said.

While the retirement fund promises to 'add more to your super without having to do anything extra', Super Ratings executive director Kirby Rappell urged people to take caution.

'It’s important to make sure you don’t lose sight of the main game, about what is your provider doing to get you the best retirement outcome possible,' Mr Rappell said.

====== 2670 ========

DO MEN EXPERIENCE MENOPAUSE TOO?

Men experience a dramatic mid-life 'change' with symptoms strikingly similar to the menopause, a Harley Street doctor claims.

Dr Doug Savage, 64, a senior clinician at the Harley Street Clinic for Men's Health, believes up to as many as 16 per cent of men are affected by the phenomenon he describes as 'testosterone deficiency'.

Speaking to presenter Mariella Frostrup on the BBC's The Truth About Menopause, Dr Savage explains he is so convinced of a dip in male hormones that he personally takes regular doses of testosterone to keep his own energy levels topped up.

However Mariella, 56, remains sceptical as she is told that some men can experience similar symptoms to women such as hot flushes, moodiness, and loss of libido.

She also speaks to medical professionals who disagree with Dr Savage's assessment, including Dr Richard Quentin, a hormone specialist, who tells Mariella that 'testosterone deficiancy' is 'not a recognised medical or scientific term'.

Mariella Frostrup, 56, examines what the latest research reveals about menopause and also discovers that some men believes they go through the 'change'

Doctor Dan Savage, a senior clinician at the Harley Street Clinic for Men's Health treats men for 'testosterone deficiency' and also takes doses himself to keep his energy levels up

Although Dr Savage was in no way diminishing the female experience, he explains: 'The main difference is all women will go through menopause but not all men will go through loss of testosterone.

'There are of course some similarities, men in the same age group and some of the symptoms are also quite similar; hot flushes, moodiness, loss of libido.

'There are lots of different studies. Its round about 10 per cent of men, maybe as high as 16 per cent, so that's quite a lot.'

He reveals his own experience: 'I was like many men putting on too much weight. The symptoms are very subtle, they often creep up on you and that was over the years and that was very the case with me.

Dr Savage recommends a patient use a testosterone gel, pictured, which he rubs over his body daily to treat the symptoms of the change that he has dubbed 'testosterone deficiency'

'A bit like ageing?' Mariella interjects.

He says: 'I noticed I was getting sleepier and sleepier, the most amazing change was energy level.

'Most doctors don't take it too seriously and this is completely incorrect. I have been listening to patients stories for 30 years and the majority do so well in every way but most patients are not getting this treatment, I think it is very sad.'

Dr Savage believes thinks the condition is being under-diagnosed by other doctors.

Mariella, right, shares her own experience of the menopause and finds out if taking hormone replacement therapy is dangerous. Pictured, the presenter with her gynecologist

Mariella meets with one patient who believes his own diagnosis in his early forties helped transform his life.

Patient Dan Hegarty came to Dr Savage for help, he tells Mariella: 'Primarily I had a great loss of energy, I felt very tired. I noticed my concentration wasn't as good as it used to be before.

WHAT IS THE MENOPAUSE? The menopause occurs when a woman stops having periods and can no longer fall pregnant naturally. It is a natural part of ageing, which occurs in women between 45 and 55 years old. However 1 in 100 women can experience menopause before the age of 40, which is known as peri-menopause, premature menopause or premature ovarian insufficiency. Symptoms often include hot flushes, night sweats, low mood, reduced sex drive, vaginal dryness, an increase in facial hair and difficulty sleeping. According to NHS advice, symptoms can begin months or even years before your periods stop and last around four years after your last period. Premature or early menopause can occur at any age, and in many cases, there's no clear cause. Source: NHS

'The other thing is I had a lot of muscle aches and that's why I sought out the centre for men's health. I had an examination and was offered a trial of the treatment.'

Dan uses a testosterone gel daily that he rubs over his body, similar to the oestrogen gel that Mariella reveals in her own medicine cabinet in the documentary.

She reflects: 'I did go in there highly sceptical about the whole notion of a male menopause on a par with the female menopause and in all fairness Doug didn't even try and convince me it wasn't the same thing.'

The presenter and journalist says she does 'remain on the fence' about the idea of distributing testosterone and meets with another medical professional.

Doctor Quentin, who works at Newcastle hospitals, strongly disagrees that testosterone deficiency is common.

'It is not a recognised medical or scientific term. A primary lack of testosterone where your testes have actually stopped working only occurs in about two per cent of older men,' he explained to Mariella.

'Plenty more experience lower testosterone levels but that is the body's response to underlying illness, that could be heart failure, depression, or schizophrenia.

He also explains that there is a huge risk that comes with a regular dose of testosterone: 'Infertility, in everybody it will drop their sperm counts, it may make your blood stickier and thicker and prone to clots and thrombosis.

'If you're a slim fit healthy men you will generally retain normal testosterone into a late age.'

The Truth About Menopause airs on BBC One on Monday at 9pm

====== 2671 ========

MOMENT PAEDOPHILE HUNTERS SNARE PERVERT WHO THOUGHT HE WAS MEETING A 13-YEAR-OLD GIRL

This is the moment a pervert who thought he was meeting a 13-year-old girl was snared by paedophile hunters, leading to a 13-month jail term.

David Pick, 59, had been exchanging sexual chat on social media app Qeep with a decoy posing as a teen before he arranged to meet her in a Matalan car park in Newcastle.

But Pick had actually been communicating with the undercover group Geordie Chasers who turned up to the rendezvous to confront him on April 13.

David Pick thought he was meeting a 13-year-old girl in a Matalan car park in Newcastle

Pick, of Chad House, Hartlepool, initially denied chatting with the 'girl' but when the paedophile hunters sent him messages from her profile his mobile phone immediately pinged.

One group member, known only as Geordie, said: 'It was quite funny, he had the app open on his phone and was getting messages from us even while he was saying it wasn't him.

'We were very clear about the girl's age but that did not deter him. He made his intentions very clear from the start of the conversation.'

In the video a member of Geordie Chasers tells Pick: 'You are here to meet a 13-year-old girl, my son.'

He replies: 'No, I am not. I have just been to the shop.'

But the paedophile hunter tells him: 'Yes you are my son.'

Pick's phone goes off in his top pocket after he is sent a message by the group and they tell him to show them the screen, which reveals he is logged on to the app.

Pick, of Chad House, Hartlepool, initially denied chatting with the 'girl' but when the paedophile hunters sent him messages from her profile his mobile phone immediately pinged

Another group member says: 'You still have the conversation open on your phone and you are trying to deny it.'

At Newcastle Crown Court yesterday Pick was jailed for 13 months for attempting to meet a child following sexual grooming and two counts of attempting to engage in sexual communication with a child.

He was also ordered to sign the sex offenders register and made subject of a sexual harm prevention order for ten years.

Pick had travelled 30 miles from his home in Hartlepool, Cleveland, to meet who he thought was the young girl in the car park of Matalan in Killingworth, Newcastle.

Geordie added: 'These sentences are never long enough.

'He will be out in a matter of months and free to offend again. Next time a real child could be involved.'

====== 2672 ========

ELDERLY JAPANESE 'WOMEN OF THE SEA' DIVE FOR SHELLFISH IN TRADITION THAT EARNS THEM JUST £68 A HAUL

A group of Japanese grannies emerges from a boat returning to shore. Clad in black wet-suits and bubbling with energy, they are part of a dwindling community of 'ama' - freediving fisherwomen.

As they compare the hauls of shellfish they have gathered, the women - who range from 60 to 80 years old - could be mistaken for teenagers underneath the water, gliding gracefully in the dark depths of the Pacific.

'I really feel like I am a mermaid among the fish, it's a fantastic sensation,' says a beaming Hideko Koguchi, who works as an ama in the coastal town of Toba.

The work done by Japan's 'ama' - freediving fisherwomen - is poorly paid and dangerous but described as a 'fantastic sensation'

This picture shows a freediving fisherwoman, known as 'ama', carrying her equipment before diving in Toba, Japan

Each ama - which means 'woman of the sea' - has only rudimentary equipment: a buoyant ring to signal her presence at the surface while she dives, and a net to hold her haul

Back on shore, she kneels and counts the turban shells - a type of sea snail - gathered by the group.

Dressed in her full ama outfit - a mask that covers her eyes and nose, flippers and a black wet-suit that replaced a white version worn until the 1960s - Koguchi sheds the weight of her years.

She has been an ama for three decades, and says proudly that she hopes to be diving 'for another 20 years'.

Accompanied by the rare site of a man, an ama woman crawls up on to solid land from a boat after fishing in the Pacific

Three ama survey their catch after a dive in Toba. Only 2,000 ama are left across Japan, down from more than 12,000 in the 1930s

During the diving season, the local fishing association scrutinises weather forecasts and information on marine stocks each day before issuing a call for the women from loudspeakers

During the diving season, which lasts for 10 months a year, the local fishing association scrutinises weather forecasts and information on marine stocks each day, before issuing a call for the women from loudspeakers.

Each ama - which means 'woman of the sea' - has only rudimentary equipment: a buoyant ring to signal her presence at the surface while she dives, and a net to hold her haul.

Out at sea, the women set up their rings and then dip beneath the surface, sometimes holding their breath for more than a minute. They tirelessly resurface and dive over and over, dozens of times a session.

Only 2,000 ama are left across Japan, down from more than 12,000 in the 1930s, according to records kept by a marine museum in Toba.

A woman surfacing while diving in the sea in Toba, the ama sometimes hold their breath for up to a minute underwater

Ama work together to unload their nets after diving in Toba, a coastal city in central Japan - they're aged between 60 and 80

Ama inspecting her catch, while the profession has never been restricted to women, it is the female ama who have attracted the most attention

The women have long worked hard to feed their families in isolated rural regions where other types of jobs were limited

The profession still exists in South Korea, where the divers are known as haenyo, but their numbers are also shrinking.

Historical artefacts suggest the tradition in Japan dates back 'at least 3,000 years,' said Shuzo Kogure, an ama specialist and researcher at the Tokyo University of Marine Science and Technology.

And while the profession has never been restricted to women, it is the female ama who have attracted the most attention.

A woman stuffs her ears while another prepares her diving equipment before their latest dive in the waters off the Japanese coast

The ama warm themselves around a fire before diving, the sometimes hold their breath for over a minute underwater

The workers gather to catch up and recharge after fishing in a special cabin called the ama goya - accompanied by a fire

After sitting by the fire the ama women adjust their suits before hitting the waters of the Pacific off the coast of Toba

Old photos and postcards depict the divers fishing topless, a practice that ended in the 20th century but remains associated with the ama and the idea of them as 'exotic objects of fantasy', said Kogure.

But cliches aside, the women have long worked hard to feed their families in isolated rural regions where other types of jobs were limited.

'In the old days, young women would become ama when they left middle school,' like a rite of passage, explained Sakichi Okuda, director of the local fishing cooperative.

Like Koguchi and her older sister, who dive together, they usually learned the basics from a relative at a young age.

An ama cleans her mask before diving. The profession still exists in South Korea, where the divers are known as haenyo

The women - who range from 60 to 80 years old - could be mistaken for teenagers underneath the water

The profession still exists in South Korea, where the divers are known as haenyo, but their numbers are also shrinking

The ama usually learn the basics from a relative at a young age, it is a tradition with a long lineage as far back as 3000 years

Ama, some of whom even walk with their backs bent over with age, acknowledge the work is poorly paid and dangerous

The sisters are part of an ama lineage that stretches back through their mother and grandmother, but their skills will not be passed on to the next generation - their children have left for the city, in search of more stable jobs.

Okuda admits that 'it is no longer viable to take on this job.'

To preserve the culture, 'we have to answer the question of how we can increase the revenue of these divers.'

The women, some of whom even walk with their backs bent over with age, acknowledge the work is poorly paid and dangerous.

'Of course I would love the kids to take over, but I know that being an ama diver is a difficult job and I don't recommend it, even to my own children,' says Koguchi's sister Michiko Hashimoto.

Out at sea, the women set up their rings and then dip beneath the surface, sometimes holding their breath for more than a minute.

The ama unloading and inspecting their catch after diving in Toba, they catch mainly shellfish

She sits warming herself up around a fire in a the hut where the women gather after fishing to catch up and recharge.

'If we want to protect and transmit the values of the ama, their way of life, we have to open the door to strangers, beyond the tradition of passing things through the family,' said Kogure.

'If we can accept that change, then the future need not be so dark,' the expert said, adding that the government and local authorities should offer financial support to the divers.

In the neighbouring village of Osatsu, young recruits are eagerly welcomed.

A freediving fisherwoman, known as 'ama', carrying her equipment towards the sea before diving in Toba

In the neighbouring village of Osatsu, young recruits are eagerly welcomed. These old heads prepare for a dive in Toba

Only 2,000 ama are left across Japan, down from more than 12,000 in the 1930s, but the women want youngsters to take over

This woman may not surface again for up to a minute as she checks her traps for a catch of shellfish in the Pacific

Ayami Nagata, a 39-year-old mother of five, began her ama training last year, following in the footsteps of her grandmother.

'I don't know how to swim, but I am practising in shallow areas to start with,' she said.

She isn't joining the profession for the money: each catch goes for only around 10,000 yen ($88).

For Nagata it's about escape: 'these moments of freedom far from the family.'

====== 2673 ========

AUSTRALIAN-BORN SAMOAN THUG JAILED FOR MOWING DOWN SEVEN KIDS AND A MOTHER IN A STOLEN UTE

A driver in a stolen ute who mowed down seven children and a mum waiting to cross a busy Victorian intersection has been labelled a danger to the community.

Melbourne man Zhane Su'a, 22, was jailed on Friday after he pleaded guilty to 10 charges including five counts of recklessly causing injury, and one each of recklessly causing serious injury reckless conduct endangering life.

'I am hesitant to say this to someone so young, but you're a danger,' Judge John Smallwood said while sentencing Su'a.

Scroll down for video

Zhane Su'a, 22, (pictured centre) pleaded guilty to 10 charges including five counts of recklessly causing injury, and one each of recklessly causing serious injury reckless conduct endangering life

He sped through an intersection at Pakenham in February crashing through a pedestrian island, hitting eight pedestrians.

After jumping from the ute Su'a called a friend and fled the scene instead of stopping to help.

Victims including children aged as young as six, and their families were seriously affected by the crash.

'It's been the worst experience of my life,' parent Brad Nash said in a statement to the court.

His wife Michelle was left with a broken arm and vertebrae when she was hit along with their two daughters. Both girls were also injured.

'I'll never get the sound of screams out of my head,' Ms Nash said in a statement.

He sped through an intersection at Pakenham in February crashing through a pedestrian island, hitting eight pedestrians including Michelle Nash (pictured)

Su'a was 21 at the time of the crash and had a string of prior offences including aggravated burglaries, armed robbery and serious driving charges.

In 2015 Su'a, who has never had a licence, took a stolen car on a joy ride with two passengers and was pursued by police before crashing.

'Your criminal history is of real concern and is of real significance for one so young,' Judge Smallwood said.

Su'a had shown remorse for his actions and wrote an apology, but did so after previous crimes and his offending continued, the judge noted.

Su'a had shown remorse for his actions and wrote an apology, but did so after previous crimes and his offending continued, the judge noted

The court took into account Su'a's difficult upbringing and substance abuse issues.

'Your life has been in a spiral of dysfunction,' Judge Smallwood said.

Despite this he said the crimes were serious and a significant custodial sentence was 'the only option'.

'Quite easily three or four people could have died and I don't think the community should be subjected to this kind of risk.'

Su'a was sentenced to nine years in jail and must serve at least five years before being eligible for parole. He has already served 277 days behind bars.

====== 2674 ========

PSYCHOLOGIST REVEALS THE SIGNS YOU MIGHT BE DATING A NARCISSIST

Narcissism is a personality disorder that bears a range of complex traits.

According to Australian clinical psychologist, Jaimie Bloch, a 'high opinion of self is a hallmark', as well as 'arrogant thinking and behaviour, grandiosity, a lack of empathy and a constant need for admiration'.

A narcissist can also be charismatic and combined with a sexual power that makes them irresistible, dating can become a minefield.

Here Ms Bloch outlines some strategies for dealing with someone who has NPD in a relationship and the important points to know if you're thinking of leaving.

Narcissism or NPD is a personality disorder, and one that bears a range of complex traits including an unhealthy obsession with self (stock image)

Australian clinical psychologist Jaimie Bloch (pictured) offers her advice to those who may be dating someone with NPD

Narcissists can never accept blame

If you are dating or considering a relationship with a person displaying narcissistic tendencies, it's important to know what to expect

A person with NPD is more likely to zoom in on those who have low self-esteem or are natural caretakers – in essence, those who project vulnerability.

'Therefore it is important to decide and know where your boundaries are and are willing to defend them,' Ms Bloch explains.

'You will need to be clear about what type of behaviour is acceptable or tolerable and what is not acceptable and tolerable within the relationship.'

The psychologist also cautioned that if you are not clear, and do not consistently communicate your boundaries, your narcissistic loved one will cross them - even those most typically respected by most.

How to manage conflict with a person with NPD: It's better to use "we" language when discussing issues within a relationship with a narcissist. It will work better if you use language that conveys the idea of "we" and discuss the challenges you are facing within the context of wanting things to go forward in the future.

Pick your battles

Given one of the key personality traits of those with NPD is self-centredness, often to the point of excluding the feelings of others, engaging in a rational way can be near impossible.

Ms Block advises those in a relationship with a narcissistic may need to be prepared, in the first instance, to let minor and unintentional insults go.

'This means that you need to be artful in the battles you do pick to take on,' she said.

'If you are finding that you are consistently getting into arguments, you will continually be in a state of tension within your relationship and nothing will be gained.

In this situation, Ms Bloch recommends important boundary setting conversations be kept for those areas of your life that are non-negotiable and you are prepared to defend.

Ms Block advises those in a relationship with a narcissistic may well need to be prepared, in the first instance, to let minor and unintentional insults go (stock image)

What to do when ending a relationship with a narcissist: 1. Make a concrete and definitive decision you are leaving 2. Enlist the help and support of friends and family. Leaving a controlling and emotionally manipulative partner is hard. 3. Know you won’t be able to be friends and enforce a "no contact" rule. You will need time to heal and process the relationship. Having contact will hinder your own personal process and will also allow the door for this person to convince you to rekindle the relationship. 4. Regain financial and independence in your life prior to the end. Most controlling partners will try and isolate you financially and emotionally. If you leave prior to gaining some sort of independence it will hinder your ability to leave and open the door for them to continue to control you and manipulate you back into the relationship. 5. Seek professional help. Often people who leave abusive relationships will find it hard to regain their confidence and restart their life. Finding a professional support group or person to talk is imperative to rebuilding your life. Most local districts have support services set up for people who are leaving abusive relationships. Source: Jaime Bloch Mind Movers Psychology

Ensure you have a support system in place

Those in a relationship with a narcissist can quickly become swept up the needs of their significant other, and it is for this reason that it is important to have a support system in place.

'It's vital to have a life outside of the home that fulfils you, such as hobbies, family connections and work connections,' Ms Bloch said.

'It's important to be able to vent to someone who can support you gain perspective and work through personal challenges you may be experiencing due to the lack of validation you feel in this relationship.

'It may be helpful to seek external support outside of family and friends with a psychologist or counsellor.'

====== 2675 ========

TWO GIRLS, BOTH 17, SMILE FOR SELFIE BEFORE ‘THROWING THEMSELVES TO THEIR DEATHS’ DOWN A WELL

Two teenage girls posted a selfie to WhatsApp moments before they are believed to have jumped into a well and drowned in a suicide pact.

The bodies of the 17-year-olds, whose names have not been revealed, were found in the popular suicide spot in Mumbai in India's western Maharashtra state.

Police say the girls took a selfie picture close to the well and turned it into their WhatsApp profile pictures just before they died.

Their smartphones, shoes and anklets were found nearby leading cops to believe they had deliberately jumped into the water.

One last selfie: the girls, both 17, pose for a picture which they uploaded to WhatsApp before they are believed to have drowned themselves deliberately in the well

Firefighters and police rushed to the murky well where they drowned in an apparent suicide pact

Their shocked families say neither of the girls had shown any signs of being depressed or suicidal and they are mystified.

One of the grieving fathers revealed his daughter had recently begged him to buy her some dresses she had seen on television.

'I promised to get them for her... The clothes will arrive in a few days but my daughter is not around to wear them,' he said.

One of the father's told the Indian Express, 'What sort of friendship is this where one person says jump into a well with me and the other actually jumps?

'Even in their last moments, they were dressed in identical tops and black pants.'

Police are studying the girls' phones in the hope of establishing a motive.

However, the girls had deleted their WhatsApp chats.

Police said one had recently broken up with her boyfriend, telling him that she was seeing another boy, and that could be linked.

It is believed to have been the fourth suicide incident at the well in two years and police said they were 'tired' of asking local officials to cover it up.

It is known to be a suicide spot and locals say it is the fourth incident in two years; police say they are 'tired' of asking local officials to cover the well

The police said one had recently broken up with a boyfriend after telling the boy she was seeing someone else and they believe there could be a link

The girls were friends who lived near each other and both of their parents were rice farmers.

One was still in school while the other had left and had started sewing to make some money.

Police say they had left their hamlet on the afternoon of their deaths without saying anything to their families.

One of the girl's fathers said a local boy saw them walking in the direction of the well but they asked him not to tell anyone he had seen them.

The man said the girls called a boy they knew and told him what they planned to do.

He had called the brother of one of the girls who raced to the scene but arrived too late.

He called emergency services who sent firefighters to recover the bodies from the well and police officers to investigate the incident.

====== 2676 ========

MAN PLEADS GUILTY OVER THE MANSLAUGHTER OF CAIRNS WOMAN CHINA CRAWFORD

A man exchanged text messages with a woman outlining an erotic encounter with 'rope and blindfolds' days before her death, a court has heard.

Richard Clay Dunlop, 28, pleaded guilty in the Cairns Supreme Court on Friday to the manslaughter death of China Crawford, 32, as well as interfering with a corpse and stealing.

The court heard the pair had exchanged text messages organising a rendezvous after meeting on a dating website in April, 2017, the Cairns Post reported.

Cairns man Richard Clay Dunlop, 28, pleaded guilty to the manslaughter of China Crawford, 32, (pictured) who he met through an internet dating website and organised to meet for a rendezvous

Crown prosecutor Nigel Rees told the court the test messages about 'rope ties and blindfolds' were sent on April 1 and 2 of 2017 before the meeting on April 3.

The court heard Dunlop had rejected Ms Crawford's advances on the night of her death, and she lashed out at him as a result.

Mr Nigel told the court Dunlop then forced Ms Crawford against the wall with his forearm firmly against her throat and that within moments the victim had collapsed.

'The deceased was lying naked, face up… (her) left arm and leg, carpet surrounding her body and a wardrobe door and a mattress were partially burned,' he said.

The court heard that Dunlop forced Miss Crawford (pictured) against the wall with his forearm firmly against her throat and that within moments the victim had collapsed

Dunlop has autism and his defence barrister Justin Greggery argued that his clients actions were both 'immature' and 'panicked' but not premeditated.

Mr Gregory argued his client had no premeditated plans to hurt Ms Crawford and that her death came as the result of a very short physical altercation, the Cairns Post reported.

Ms Crawford's body was not discovered for two days when a work friend arrived at her home.

The court also heard Dunlop tried to set fire to the house in an attempt to cover up the evidence but the flames failed to catch and destroy the home.

Dunlop will be sentenced on Monday and could face up to nine years in jail.

====== 2677 ========

MELBOURNE BOATSHED SETS A RECORD WHEN IT GOES UNDER THE HAMMER FOR FIRST TIME IN ALMOST 70 YEARS

Kay & Burton Real Estate described the shed as the 'ultimate holiday experience'

Boatshed had been owned by a Portsea family for almost 70 years before sale

A family has cashed in by selling their beachside boatshed for close to $1million in what is believed to be a record sale.

The boatshed is located just metres from the water in Portsea, a town in the outer south-east of Melbourne.

A local family had owned the boatshed for almost 70 years, before recently deciding to sell it,news.com.au reported.

Scroll down for video

A family have cashed in by selling their boatshed for close to $1million in an impressive sale

The boatshed is located just metres from the water in Portsea, a town in the outer south-east of Melbourne

The price fetched for the boatshed is believed to have been around the mid-point of $910,000 and $1 million, which was the asking price.

The record boatshed sale is much higher than the average price of a house in Melbourne.

The city has a $780,130 median house value, according to CoreLogic.

Kay & Burton Real Estate described the property as an 'extra-large, elevated Boatshed' which 'provides the ultimate holiday experience and has been tightly held since 1950.'

'It's very rare for them to come up on Fishermans Beach - no one can remember the last time one did,' Kay & Burton Portsea director Liz Jensen told News Corp.

Ms Jensen added the buyers were Portsea locals who had wanted to own a beach hut for a long time.

Kay & Burton Real Estate described the property as an 'extra-large, elevated Boatshed' which 'provides the ultimate holiday experience and has been tightly held since 1950'

====== 2678 ========

MOMENT GUNMEN MARCH TOWARDS CHINESE CONSULATE IN PAKISTAN BEFORE LAUNCHING DEADLY ATTACK

Four people were killed today when gunmen armed with hand grenades and a suicide vest stormed the Chinese consulate in the Pakistani city of Karachi, officials said, with the attack claimed by a separatist group which branded Beijing 'an oppressor'.

Police officials said two of their personnel were killed, along with a father and son from Quetta, the capital of Balochistan, who were seeking Chinese visas and were caught in the crossfire.

Pakistani authorities said that security forces had secured the area after the attack, the latest assault on Chinese nationals in the country, where Beijing has poured billions of dollars into one of the largest projects in its massive Belt and Road programme.

Pakistani police have released CCTV footage which reportedly shows the gunmen march towards the Chinese consulate. Police said two of their personnel were killed, along with a father and son from Quetta, the capital of Balochistan

Security stands at the site of a shootout at the Chinese Consulate. The armed separatists stormed the building, triggering an intense hour-long shootout during which two police officers were killed

Pakistani security personnel stand next to burned out vehicles in front of the consulate after an attack in Karachi this morning

Pakistani ambulance volunteers transport a dead body in front of the Chinese consulate after an attack in Karachi today

Smoke rising from the Chinese consulate after an attack by gunmen in Karachi, Pakistan. Witnesses reported gunshots

Pakistani rescue workers shift a body after the attack on the Chinese consulate at around 9:30am local time

The attackers killed the officers and stormed the building in the southern port city, leading to an intense shootout at about 9:30am local time (4:30am GMT) today.

CCTV footage has emerged showing the gunmen marching towards the building before opening fire at guards.

Senior police official Ameer Ahmad Sheikh said all 21 Chinese diplomats and staff at the consulate were safe and were not harmed during the assault or the shootout.

The attack was claimed by the Balochistan Liberation Army (BLA), a separatist insurgent group that branded Beijing 'an oppressor' and opposes Chinese exploitation of natural resources in the resource-rich southwestern Pakistani province of Balochistan.

'We have been seeing the Chinese as an oppressor, along with Pakistani forces,' a spokesman for the group told the AFP news agency.

Members of the bomb disposal unit, checking the exlosives recovered from a bag, after an attack on the Chinese consulate

The attack happened at the Chinese consulate in the Pakistani city of Karachi

Pakistani ambulance volunteers transport a dead body in front of the Chinese consulate after the attack today

Authorities said attackers first opened fire at consulate guards and managed to breach the main gate and enter the building

Authorities said the attackers first opened fire at consulate guards and then managed to breach the main gate.

Pakistani security forces quickly surrounded the area. Local TV broadcast images showing smoke rising from the building, which also serves as the residence of Chinese diplomats and other staff.

'They were holding Kalashnikovs. First, they hurled a small (grenade) and then started firing,' said Allah Bakhsh, a guard at a nearby house who witnessed the attack.

The situation was brought under control after the shootout, which lasted for about an hour. The three attackers were killed before they were able to enter the facility.

'Because of a quick response of the guards and police, the terrorists could not reach the Chinese diplomats', Mr Sheikh said after the fighting ended.

Pakistani police have released CCTV footage which reportedly shows the moments the three gunmen march towards the Chinese consulate.

A bomb disposal squad member checks a bag belonging to an attacker outside the Chinese consulate after the attack

Paramilitary forces and police take cover behind a wall during an attack on the consulate

Paramilitary soldiers take cover behind a wall during an attack on the Chinese embassy, where blasts and shots are heard

A police officer checks ammunition recovered during an investigation after the attack on the building

Aftermath: Pakistani security personnel work in the compound of the building

'We have completed the operation, and a search is still under way to trace and capture all suspects,' he added

Mr Sheikh said one of the attackers was wearing a suicide vest that did not detonate. Authorities will try to identify the assailants through fingerprints.

Dr Seemi Jamali, a spokeswoman at the Jinnah Hospital, said the bodies of two police officers were brought to the hospital while one of the consulate guards who was wounded, is being treated.

Pakistan's Prime Minister Imran Khan has 'strongly condemned' the attack in a statement, saying he has ordered an investigation.

He described the assault as part of a conspiracy against Pakistan and China's economic and strategic cooperation.

A Pakistani police commando walks past a burned out vehicle outside the consulate after the attack

Pakistani troops arrive at the Chinese Consulate. Pakistan's Prime Minister Imran Khan has 'strongly condemned' the attack in a statement, saying he has ordered an investigation

The attackers killed two police officers and stormed the building in the southern port city in Pakistan, leading to an intense shootout at about 9:30am local time

Pakistani rescue workers stand beside the bodies of victims who were killed in the attack on the Chinese consulate

Pakistan's Prime Minister Imran Khan vowed such incidents would never be able to undermine Pakistan's relations with China

Police said one of the attackers was wearing a suicide vest. Authorities will try to identify the assailants through fingerprints

People hold and console an unidentified relative of one of the victims of the fatal attack

The consulate is located in the affluent Clifton neighbourhood, along with those of several other nations.

Khan vowed that such incidents would never be able to undermine Pakistan's relations with China, which are 'mightier than the Himalayas and deeper than the Arabian Sea.'

Beijing 'strongly condemned' the attack and asked Pakistan to take measures to ensure the safety of Chinese citizens in the country.

'China strongly condemns violent attacks against diplomatic agencies and requests that Pakistan takes practical measures to ensure the safety of Chinese citizens and organisations in the country,' Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Geng Shuang said at a regular press briefing.

China is a long-time ally and has invested heavily in transport projects in Pakistan. The two countries have strengthened ties in recent years and China is currently building a network of roads and power plants under a project known as the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, or CPEC.

A paramilitary soldier walks past the wreckages of cars after the attack on the Chinese consulate. China is a long-time ally and has invested heavily in transport projects in Pakistan

Volunteers wait outside the Chinese Consulate after an attack in Karachi

Beijing 'strongly condemned' the attack and asked Pakistan to take measures to ensure the safety of Chinese citizens

====== 2679 ========

ECUADOR REMOVES UK AMBASSADOR WHO HAD BEEN NEGOTIATING JULIAN ASSANGE'S FATE FROM LONDON EMBASSY

Ecuador has removed a UK ambassador who had been negotiating Julian Assange's fate at the London embassy, sparking speculation the country is preparing to hand the WikiLeaks founder over to British police.

Assange has been holed up inside the Ecuadorian embassy in London since 2012 when he was accused of sexual assault by two women in Sweden.

The Australian denied their claims but refused to travel to Sweden to face them, saying it was part of a ruse to extradite him to the US.

But Ecuador's President Lenin Moreno is now said to have terminated the credentials of his British ambassador, Carlos Abad Ortiz, according to a decree published by WikiLeaks on Wednesday.

Ecuador has removed a UK ambassador who had been negotiating Julian Assange's fate at the London embassy, sparking speculation the country is preparing to hand the WikiLeaks founder over to British police. President Lenin Moreno is said to have terminated the credentials of his British ambassador, Carlos Abad Ortiz (pictured)

The decree, published by WikiLeaks, does not say why Ortiz, ambassador to the UK since 2015, has been recalled or who his successor will be

Assange has been holed up inside the Ecuadorian embassy in London since 2012 when he was accused of sexual assault by two women in Sweden

The envoy has been a key part of negotiations over the 47-year-old whistleblower, who was behind a massive dump of classified US documents in 2010.

The decree does not say why Ortiz, ambassador to the UK since 2015, has been recalled or who his successor will be, RT reports.

In a tweet, WikiLeaks said 'all diplomats known' to Assange have now been 'terminated... transferred away from the embassy'.

Some have claimed online that the move increases the likelihood of Assange being handed over to British police.

It comes after one of Assange's lawyers said the WikiLeaks founder will not willingly travel to the United States to face charges filed under seal against him.

Assange, who has taken cover in the Ecuadorian Embassy in London, where he has been granted asylum, has speculated publicly for years that the Justice Department had brought secret criminal charges against him for revealing highly sensitive government information on his website.

That hypothesis appeared closer to reality after prosecutors, in an errant court filing in an unrelated case, inadvertently revealed the existence of sealed charges.

The filing, discovered last week, said the charges and arrest warrant 'would need to remain sealed until Assange is arrested in connection with the charges in the criminal complaint and can therefore no longer evade or avoid arrest and extradition in this matter.'

WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange (pictured) has been charged in the United States, the organisation said last week

A person familiar with the matter, speaking on condition of anonymity because the case had not been made public, confirmed that charges had been filed under seal. The exact charges Assange faces and when they might be unsealed remained uncertain Friday.

Any charges against him could help illuminate whether Russia coordinated with the Trump campaign to sway the 2016 presidential election. They also would suggest that, after years of internal Justice Department wrangling, prosecutors have decided to take a more aggressive tack against WikiLeaks.

A criminal case also holds the potential to expose the practices of a radical transparency activist who has been under U.S. government scrutiny for years and at the center of some of the most explosive disclosures of stolen information in the last decade.

Those include thousands of diplomatic cables from Army Pvt. Bradley (now Chelsea) Manning, secret CIA hacking tools, and most recently and notoriously, Democratic emails that were published in the weeks before the 2016 presidential election and that U.S. intelligence officials say had been hacked by Russia.

Special counsel Robert Mueller, who has already charged 12 Russian military intelligence officers with hacking, has been investigating whether any Trump associates had advance knowledge of the stolen emails.

Assange could be an important link for Mueller as he looks to establish exactly how WikiLeaks came to receive the emails, and why its dump of stolen communications from Hillary Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta - beginning just after a damaging video of Trump from a decade earlier publicly surfaced - appeared timed to boost the Trump campaign.

Assange, 47, has resided in the Ecuadorian Embassy under a grant of asylum for more than six years to avoid being extradited to Sweden, where he was accused of sex crimes, or to the United States, whose government he has repeatedly humbled with mass disclosures of classified information.

The Australian was once a welcome guest at the embassy, which takes up part of the ground floor of a stucco-fronted apartment in London's posh Knightsbridge neighborhood. But his relationship with his hosts has soured over the years amid reports of espionage, erratic behavior and diplomatic unease.

Barry Pollack, a Washington lawyer for Assange, said he expected Ecuador to 'comply with its obligations' to preserve asylum for him, though he acknowledged a concern that the county could revoke his asylum, expel him from the embassy and facilitate an extradition to the U.S.

'The burden should not shift to Mr. Assange to have to defend against criminal charges when what he has been accused of doing is what journalists do every day,' Pollack said. 'They publish truthful information because the public has a right to know and consider that information and understand what its government and institutions are doing.'

Assange speaks on the balcony of the Ecuadorian Embassy after Swedish authorities announced that they dropped their investigation into rape allegations against him

The charges came to light in an unrelated court filing from a federal prosecutor in Virginia, who was attempting to keep sealed a separate case involving a man accused of coercing a minor for sex.

The three-page filing contained two references to Assange, including one sentence that said 'due to the sophistication of the defendant and the publicity surrounding the case, no other procedure is likely to keep confidential the fact that Assange has been charged.'

It was not immediately clear why Assange's name was included in the document. Joshua Stueve, a spokesman for the Justice Department's Eastern District of Virginia said, 'The court filing was made in error. That was not the intended name for this filing.'

The filing was discovered by Seamus Hughes, a terrorism expert at the Program on Extremism at George Washington University, who posted it on Twitter hours after The Wall Street Journal reported that the Justice Department was preparing to prosecute Assange.

The case at issue concerns a defendant named Seitu Sulayman Kokayi, a 29-year-old teacher who has since been indicted on charges of enticing a 15-year-old girl to commit sex acts and to produce child pornography. There doesn't appear to be any connection between Assange and Kokayi.

The since-unsealed document, a motion filed in late August, mentions Assange in two boilerplate sections, suggesting a copy-and-paste error or that his name was inadvertently left in a template used for the common filings.

The filing suggests prosecutors have reason to believe they will be able to arrest and extradite Assange.

Ecuadorian officials say they have cut off his high-speed internet access and will restore it only if he agrees to stop interfering in the affairs of Ecuador's partners, such as the U.S. and Spain. He is allowed to use the embassy's WiFi, though it is unclear if he doing so. Officials have also imposed a series of other restrictions on Assange's activities and visitors, and ordered him to clean after his cat.

Carlos Poveda, Assange's lawyer in Ecuador, said he suspects Ecuador has been maneuvering to kick Assange out of the embassy through the stricter new living requirements it recently imposed.

He said possible U.S. charges, however, are proof his client remains under threat, and he called on Ecuador's government to uphold Assange's asylum protections. He said Ecuador would be responsible if anything happened to Assange.

With shrinking options - an Ecuadorian lawsuit seeking to reverse the restrictions was recently turned down - WikiLeaks announced in September that former spokesman Kristinn Hrafnsson, an Icelandic journalist who has long served as one of Assange's lieutenants, would take over as editor-in-chief.

In a brief interview in Reykjavik, Iceland, Hrafnsson called the U.S. news 'a very black day for journalism.'

====== 2680 ========

AUSTRALIA'S DEAD BABY CRISIS: INFANTS KILLED IN TRAGIC CIRCUMSTANCES

A string of horrific baby killings at the hands of sadistic parents is just the tip of the iceberg in a deepening child abuse crisis - and an 'overwhelmed' system is failing to protect them, safety advocates say.

From strung out ice addicts bashing their babies to a pulp to a crazed mother leaving her children to die after driving them into a lake, Australia has in recent times seen some of the most unimaginable crimes against our most vulnerable.

In the latest tragedy to rock the nation, a nine-month-old girl's naked body was found washed up on a Queensland beach in the early hours of Monday morning.

The girl's 48-year-old father, who was charged with murder on Thursday, told police his daughter was 'possessed by demons' after she was found dead in the shallows of Surfers Paradise beach.

The pair - along with the child's older brother and their 23-year-old mother - were homeless and had been living in a hut made from sticks and tree branches when she died.

'How can it be that we've got a newborn child and her sibling living rough on our streets, in Australia?,' Hetty Johnston, founder of child protection organisation Bravehearts, told Daily Mail Australia.

'We've got a system right across the country that's bulging at the edges, because we've got too many parents navigating their responsibility.'

In the latest tragedy to rock the nation, a nine-month-old girl's naked body was found washed up on a Queensland beach in the early hours of Monday morning

The little girl was found dead by the water in the early hours of Monday. Paramedics tried to revive her but she was pronounced dead at the scene (pictured)

The pair - along with the child's older brother and their 23-year-old mother - were homeless and had been living in a hut made from sticks and tree branches

The girl's father was a violent schizophrenic with a history of alcoholism and drug abuse - and he'd previously tried to attack a council officer who warned him not to camp in sand dunes with his family, Southport Court heard on Wednesday.

Daily Mail Australia does not suggest the father is guilty of any offence.

The latest in a string of baby deaths highlighted a broken system which is failing defenceless children, Ms Johnston said.

There are all kinds of tragedies occurring against children that we don't hear about - BECAUSE THEY DON'T DIE

Just one day after the child's body was found, another Queensland girl, aged four months, died in suspicious circumstances.

Police said a woman and a man were assisting with their inquiries into the death on Tuesday of the infant from the Logan District.

Ms Johnston said Australia's child abuse and neglect epidemic runs far deeper than what is reported in media.

'We only hear about the ones that are dead. What about the others that are getting raped and abused?,' Ms Johnston added.

'There are all kinds of tragedies occurring against children that we don't hear about - because they don't die.'

In September, ice addict William Andrew O'Sullivan was sentenced to nine years jail for bashing his 22-month-old stepson in a drug-fuelled rage. The child later died.

In September, ice addict William Andrew O'Sullivan was sentenced to nine years jail for bashing his 22-month-old stepson

Mason Jet Lee, suffered anal injuries, a broken leg and a ruptured intestine. Traces of meth were found in his blood

The young boy, Mason Jet Lee, suffered anal injuries, a broken leg and a ruptured intestine, spending the last of his days vomiting, feverish and dehydrated.

Traces of methamphetamine were found in his blood.

'They might be lovely people when they're straight and sober, but they're not always straight and sober, which makes them very dangerous parents - and they're putting their children at great risk,' Ms Johnston said.

In the last seven years, ice-related deaths have doubled to 300 a year and instances of ice-addicted parents killing their children are becoming shockingly common.

'We've got a real problem with ice, we've got increasing dysfunction in adults - and it's because we're not working on prevention,' Ms Johnston said.

'We're mopping up carnage is what we're doing. And we're doing it on a daily basis - right across the country. I hate to admit it, but I think we've almost given up.

'The Family Court, police and others - the complaints are so overwhelming - I believe we've got to a point where we're throwing our hands in the air and saying ''I give up, I can't stop this''.'

In 2016, ice user Melissa Louise Bulloch, 27, pleaded guilty to the manslaughter of her son Lochlan, who was found dead at his Hamilton Hill home, south-west of Perth, in January 2014.

In 2016, Melissa Louise Bulloch, 27, pleaded guilty to the manslaughter of her son Lochlan

Lochlan was found dead at his Hamilton Hill home, south-west of Perth, in January 2014

The baby suffered severe brain injuries, bruising to his head and neck - and also had meth in his system.

Justice John Chaney said Bulloch's drug use was out of control and affected her parenting, causing her to act impulsively and unpredictably.

Another baby boy, six-month-old Chayse Dearing, was bashed to death by his mother's drug addict partner - who thought he was a spider.

Chayse was killed by Dwayne Justin Lindsey, 34, at Glenroy while his mother Michelle went shopping in Melbourne in June, 2016.

The baby suffered severe traumatic brain and spinal cord injuries, marks on his neck, bruising and abrasions on his groin, and retinal bleeding.

Six-month-old Chayse Dearing (left) was bashed to death by his mother's drug addict partner - Dwayne Justin Lindsey (right) - who thought he was a spider

Chayse was killed while his mother Michelle went shopping in Melbourne on June 26, 2016

Lindsey claimed he fell asleep with the child on his chest, then woke and jumped when he thought a spider was crawling on him.

He said the baby fell off his chest, hitting his head on a wall heater. He was found guilty of murder.

Yet another baby, a three-month-old girl known only as BLGN, died in her cot in 2014 after her drug addict mother neglected her, despite repeated warnings to child services.

A court was told when the girl was found dead at an Oxley Park home in western Sydney, there was an ice-pipe above the baby's bottle warmer and her mother seemed 'dazed'.

A three-month-old baby girl known only as BLGN died in her cot in 2014 after her drug addict mother neglected her

The young mother (pictured) admitted in Glebe Coroners Court to having an ice addiction since she was 13

Police who visited the home said her grandmother also 'appeared to be on something' and the baby's older siblings were 'dirty and hungry.'

The young mother admitted in Glebe Coroners Court to having an ice addiction since she was 13, saying she was coming down off drugs and had become lazy the day her older child died.

Meanwhile, in September this year a suppression order was lifted and Daniel James Holdom's shocking crimes against his girlfriend and her two-year-old daughter were exposed.

The 43-year-old murdered Karlie Pearce-Stevenson, 20, so he could sexually assault her daughter, Khandalyce Pearce, in December 2008.

Daniel James Holdom (left) murdered Karlie Pearce-Stevenson (right) so he could sexually assault her daughter

Khandalyce Pearce (pictured) was brutally murdered by Daniel James Holdom in December 2008

The mother and daughter, whose bodies were dumped 1,200km apart, were not identified until 2015.

The child's skeleton was found in a suitcase with cloths stuffed in her mouth.

'This is a crisis. If these deaths came out of the blue, that would be distressing - but understandable in terms of responses from authorities,' Ms Johnston said.

'But most often these kids are known to authorities - most often members of the community tried to help them and reported [them]. Most often, those notifications were ignored or minimised.'

Last year, mother-of-seven Akon Guode pleaded guilty to killing three of her children by driving them into a Melbourne lake.

Khandalyce Pearce's skeleton was found in this suitcase with cloths stuffed in her mouth

Hetty Johnston (pictured), founder of Australia's leading child protection organisation Bravehearts, said the system is failing the country's most vulnerable children

She later claimed her 26-year jail sentence was too harsh because she was mentally unwell, while a witness testified that Guode believed 'witchcraft' had caused the crash.

During the sentence hearing, her barrister Marcus Dempsey blamed the atrocity on an 'accruing of pressures and stress'.

Guode's 17-month-old son, Bol, and four-year-old twins, Hanger and Madit died, while her five-year-old daughter, Aluel, survived the 2015 incident.

Meanwhile, Tyrell Cobb, four, died in 2009 after two blows to his abdomen caused internal bleeding and the leaking of his stomach contents, leading to peritonitis.

Last year, mother-of-seven Akon Guode (left) pleaded guilty to killing three of her children by driving them into a Melbourne lake (right)

Guode's 17-month-old son, Bol (left), and four-year-old twins, Hanger and Madit (right) were killed

His mother, Heidi Strbak, was sentenced to nine years' jail, with a non-parole period of four years, after the Brisbane Supreme Court found her guilty of manslaughter.

Tyrell's stepfather Matthew Scown sparked national outrage earlier this year when he laughed outside court moments after he was released.

While Scown did not cause the injuries, he did not contact authorities or seek medical help - even when Tyrell was vomiting green bile the night before his death.

He was handed a four-year jail sentence for the manslaughter of his stepson, but was released after already spending two years and eight months in custody.

Gold Coast mother Heidi Strbak was sentenced to nine years' jail for the manslaughter of her four-year-old son Tyrell Cobb

Tyrell's stepfather Matthew Scown (right) sparked national outrage when he laughed outside court after being slapped with a suspended jail sentence. Strbak is pictured left

Ms Johnston said the courts weren't doing enough to stop the abuse and neglect of children.

'The average sentence for an adult who kills a child is 6.8 years. I just don't know that we value our children - I don't think we get it. The system doesn't prioritise children,' she said.

'I just wonder if that's where our system is coming to. We're just rolling the dice and hoping the worst doesn't happen. That's not something we can accept, surely.

'The only people that can protect these children are adults. We can't turn the other cheek. We have to make our politicians and our systems accountable for their failures to act.'

Ms Johnston is lobbying for the introduction of a new 'child killing' charge which would carry a life sentence.

On average, 25 Australian children are killed every year because of murder or manslaughter, according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics.

====== 2681 ========

THE MOST AWKWARD THANKSGIVING DINNERS EVER IN HILARIOUS SNAPS

It's the time of year to count your blessings, but the families in these Thanksgiving photos were likely grateful when the festivities were over.

Compiled by the Awkward Family Photos website, the hilarious snaps capture the all too familiar down sides of family gatherings; from cranky children and ridiculous outfits to napping grandparents and questionable efforts in the kitchen.

In one snap, two men who've taken over cooking duties have set about basting the bird; their cigarettes dangling perilously close to the turkey.

In others, the addition of Thanksgiving costumes has done little to bring smiles to youngsters' faces, with many looking distinctly underwhelmed by their pilgrim hats.

Scroll down for more snaps of dinners that will make you give thanks you weren't there...

A series of awkward snaps of Thanksgiving celebrations has captured some less than successful dinners - including this one of a home cook with his cigarette dangling perilously close to the turkey

Not in the mood for turkey? This young diner looks distinctly underwhelmed by the prospect of her Thanksgiving feast

Thanksgiving is the perfect opportunity to dress children up in hilarious costumes - when they're too young to know what's happening

The addition of Thanksgiving-themed pilgrim hats hasn't done much to bring smiles to the faces of this family

Another hapless baby trussed up like a turkey for the celebrations - a memory to be treasured for years to come

Some of the families featured went all out for the celebrations, going so far as to dress up as pilgrims for the occasion

The snaps compiled by the Awkward Family Photos website include some spectacularly retro throwbacks

There's always one! Although noone in this snap seems thrilled at the prospect of a family photo, all but one managed not to pull a silly face

When can we leave? With the plates cleared, noone looks keen to linger over this particular Thanksgiving table

Food coma? This gentleman couldn't even make it to the sofa he was so keen for his post-Thanksgiving dinner snooze

Start them early! Even children look underwhelmed by Thanksgiving celebrations sometimes - like these schoolkids

We've all experienced the family gathering that is rife with tension - this looks like a classic example

Save some for us! The man in this photograph seems to prefer beer and spirits to the more traditional turkey sides

These siblings look less than impressed with their costumes for a family Thanksgiving celebration

====== 2682 ========

ISIS SUPPORTER, 22, REFUSES TO STAND AND SCREAMS AT A JUDGE

An unremorseful Islamic State supporter who helped a teenage terrorist kill NSW Police accountant Curtis Cheng has been jailed for at least 28-and-a-half years.

Milad Atai was sentenced on Friday for assisting and encouraging 15-year-old Farhad Jabar to shoot Mr Cheng at the state police headquarters at Parramatta in 2015 and helping the boy's sister reach Islamic State in Syria.

In jailing the 22-year-old for a total of 38 years, NSW Supreme Court Justice Peter Johnson said Atai was a supporter of extreme jihad for many months before the terrorist attack and appeared to still hold radical views.

As he was led away from court, Atai raised his index finger in the direction of the judge and shouted in Arabic.

Supporters of Milad Atai arrive at the NSW Supreme Court on Friday

Milad Atai (pictured) was sentenced on Friday for assisting and encouraging 15-year-old Farhad Jabar

His barrister earlier told the court the former plumber would not stand when he was sentenced, as is customary.

'That itself is an indication of his current thinking, which is regrettable,' Justice Johnson said.

Justice Johnson said while Atai did not play the critical role of passing to Jabar the gun used to kill Mr Cheng, he was well aware of the plans and made no attempts to dissuade the boy.

Atai was wearing a skullcap and kept his head down as he was sentenced, being told by Justice Johnson that his actions were 'cruel and devoid of basic humanity'.

Mr Cheng's son Alpha and his widow Selina were in the courtroom during sentencing, and comforted each other.

Atai had to be removed from the court by security officers.

'The offender's recent stance has caused upset to his wife and will no doubt have an adverse impact on his son,' Justice Johnson said.

Justice Johnson said while Atai did not play the critical role of passing to Jabar (pictured) the gun used to kill Mr Cheng, he was well aware of the plans and made no attempts to dissuade the boy

Further, as the self-described best friend of the attack's key plotter Raban Alou, Atai attended several meetings across Sydney's west and offered use of his own phone as Alou tried to get Jabar a gun.

Justice Johnson said he didn't accept Atai's claim that he thought the attack had been called off.

By his own evidence, Atai said had he known the attack was going ahead on October 2, he would have made sure he'd have attended to help Alou, the judge said.

Atai also played a significant organisational role in helping to get Jabar's sister to Syria, including giving her $1000 for flights and advice on the route and clothing to take to avoid detection.

Atai had rescinded an earlier apology he gave to Mr Cheng's family, calling it 'bulls**t'.

NSW Police accountant Curtis Cheng was shot dead at Parramatta in 2015

'I take back what I said in the box because I was in the heat of moment and I just slipped up,' Atai wrote in a letter to police and prosecutors, the Daily Telegraph reported.

'If use (sic) can please let the judge know about this letter and I want him to know where I stand with this remorse bulls**t.

'I ask Allah to grant victory to the believers and to destroy those who oppress his slaves.'

Justice Johnson said Atai had adopted the 'perveted ideology' of violent and radicalised jihad, which he called a 'warped and criminal belief system'.

Atai helped his friend and convicted terrorist Raban Alou as he attempted to source the firearm that was used to shoot Mr Cheng as he left work on October 2, 2015.

Justice Johnson said the plan was the product of 'twisted and evil minds'.

Just three days after Jabar shot Mr Cheng, his actions were praised in a WhatsApp chat group.

'Allahu Akbar... the young brother had a smile on his face and his finger up,' Atai messaged.

====== 2683 ========

MEGAN GALE DENIES GETTING COSMETIC WORK AND REVEALS AGE-DEFYING SECRETS

Megan Gale has once again denied having cosmetic work.

The 43-year-old stunner revealed she has not had any 'injectables' and shared her age-defying secrets.

The mother-of-two told fans on Thursday that her youthful good looks are purely down to not smoking or doing drugs, eating well and staying hydrated, as well as dermasweeps and deep heat treatments.

Scroll down for video

'People assume I can't be 43 and look the way I do without injectables!' Megan Gale denies getting cosmetic work and reveals her surprising age-defying secrets (pictured L in 2004 and R, this month)

Taking to her Instagram story, Megan answered some questions from followers.

'You have such natural beauty, do you have cosmetic work done?' one question read.

Megan replied: 'If by cosmetic you mean injectables no.'

Her secrets: 'I'm not a smoker, don't do drugs and don't drink regularly. These things age you horribly,' Megan said

Candid: Taking to her Instagram story, Megan answered some questions from followers

She looks after her skin: 'I eat well and drink heaps of water. I get dermasweeps, deep heat treatments (LED/thermage) regular deep cleanses and my Mama gave me some nice skin,' she said

'I often get "accused'' of it (LOL) I think people assume I can't be 43 and look the way I do without it but I've no reason to fib.'

She then listed her secrets to looking so young.

'I'm not a smoker, don't do drugs and don't drink regularly. These things age you horribly.'

'I eat well and drink heaps of water. I get dermasweeps, deep heat treatments (LED/thermage) regular deep cleanses and my Mama gave me some nice skin.'

Opinions: In July, Beverly Hills cosmetic surgeon Dr. Randal Haworth weighed in on Megan's age-defying appearance, claiming that he believes she hasn't had surgery but may have undergone non-surgical procedures such as Botox and dermal fillers (pictured L in 2002 and R in 2015)

She's flawless! Dr. Haworth, who has not treated Megan himself, described several small, non-surgical procedures she may have undergone to maintain her supermodel look

In July this year, Beverly Hills cosmetic surgeon Dr. Randal Haworth weighed in on Megan's age-defying appearance, claiming that he believes she hasn't had surgery but may have undergone non-surgical procedures such as Botox and dermal fillers.

'I understand Megan has denied "going under the knife" and, based solely on her photographs, I tend to believe her,' Dr. Haworth told Daily Mail Australia at the time.

Dr. Haworth, who has not treated Megan himself, described several small, non-surgical procedures she may have undergone to maintain her supermodel look.

'Though not surgery per se, it is possible she may have received fillers (such as Juvéderm or Voluma) to maintain her naturally full lips, control her under-eye circles [and] augment her naturally flat anterior cheekbones,' he claimed.

He likes her au naturale! In 2016 she told New Idea in 2016 that she would never consider surgery as her former AFL star partner Shaun Hampson, 30, (pictured) would 'kill her'

Dr. Haworth also believes that Megan may have had some Botox 'here and there' to subtly smooth out her crow's feet.

Megan has spoken candidly about her attitudes toward cosmetic work in the past.

In 2016 she told New Idea in 2016 that she would never consider surgery as her former AFL star partner Shaun Hampson, 30, would 'kill her'.

'I think he would kill me if I did that,' she said. 'Shaun is very anti-cosmetic surgery, which is one of the things I love about him.

'I have just turned 41, but I feel comfortable and confident about the way I'm ageing.'

====== 2684 ========

KYLE SANDILANDS DISHES OUT RELATIONSHIP ADVICE TO JACKIE 'O' HENDERSON

Kyle Sandilands offered up some unwarranted relationship advice to Jackie 'O' Henderson live on-air during their KIIS FM radio program, The Kyle & Jackie O Show, on Friday morning.

The longtime collaborators had been discussing Paris Hilton's recent split from her fiance of 11 months, Chris Zylka, with Kyle, 47, speculating the reason for their split was because they spent too much time together.

'You can't look at her all day, all night. You'd think, "I'm sick of r**ting this,"' he announced.

Expert? Kyle Sandilands offered up some unwarranted relationship advice to Jackie 'O' Henderson during their KIIS FM radio program, The Kyle & Jackie O Show, on Friday morning

But Jackie, 43, didn't agree, telling her outspoken co-host that 'sometimes people love to spend every minute together'.

Things then turned personal, with Kyle telling the radio personality this was a mistake she often made in relationships, referencing her recent split from Lee Henderson, her husband of 15 years.

'And then the relationship fizzles out. This is where you go wrong,' he told her.

'You spend your whole waking life glued to your man, and then instead of lasting 60 years, pop, it's over in 18.'

Needy: Kyle told his co-host Jackie 'O' Henderson that she was too clingy in her relationships, saying that's why they always fizzled out

Over: The longtime collaborators had been discussing Paris Hilton's recent split from her fiance of 11 months, Chris Zylka

Jackie tried to laugh off his comments, claiming it wasn't the reason for her marriage breakdown.

The radio host made the shock announcement she was splitting from her husband last month.

The former couple also share a seven-year-old daughter, Kitty.

Breaking up: The radio host announced she was splitting from her husband of 15 years, Lee Henderson, last month. They also share a seven-year-old daughter, Kitty

'After 18 years together, we have made the decision to separate. We do so amicably, sharing many incredible memories and remaining best friends,' she said in a statement at the time.

'Our focus for this next chapter is of course our wonderful daughter and continuing to provide her love and happiness, together.'

Speaking exclusively to Daily Mail Australia last month, Kyle revealed the split had been a long time coming for the former couple.

False accusations: Jackie tried to laugh off Kyle's comments, claiming it wasn't the reason for her marriage breakdown

'Everyone thinks it's the worst thing that's ever happened... from the outside looking in they looked like everything was great, but they just drifted apart over a few years,' he said.

Meanwhile, Paris, 37, announced her split from Chris, 33, on Monday.

'They broke up a few weeks ago. The relationship moved very fast, and she realised it wasn’t right for her,' an insider told People.

====== 2685 ========

MAFS'S RYAN GALLAGHER STRIPS OFF AND POLE DANCES WITH ANOTHER MAN DURING BOOZY NIGHT OUT IN SYDNEY

Reality star Ryan Gallagher took his party animal ways to the next level on Thursday.

Caught on camera by fellow Married at First Sight star Dean Wells, the 30 year-old stripped down to his underwear and pole danced with another man during a boozy night out in Sydney.

Posted to Instagram with the caption 'it's just got weirder', the TV personality was seen 'twerking' as he cavorted around the pole at a pool party at The Ivy.

'It just got weirder!' 'It just got weirder!' Married At First Sight's Ryan Gallagher caused chaos at a Sydney bar on Thursday night when he stripped off and pole danced with another man during a boozy night out

Lifting his leg in the air, Ryan continued to gyrate before bursting into laughter.

Appearing soaking wet, he then stepped off the stage, bringing his performance to an abrupt end.

The wild display comes after Ryan was recently pictured at Channel Nine studios for an appearance on Today Extra earlier this week .

Wet n' Wild: Posted to Instagram with the caption 'it's just got weirder', the reality TV personality was seen 'twerking' as he cavorted around the pole at a pool party at The Ivy

Flashdance: Appearing soaking wet, he then stepped off the stage, bringing his performance to an abrupt end

The sometimes stand-up comedian posed alongside Married At First Sight John Aiken, fueling speculation he was returning to the forthcoming season of the reality series.

'Fans were so obsessed with him, so Channel Nine were desperate to bring him back,' an insider told NW on Monday.

Last season, Ryan was 'married' to Davina Rankin, 26 - but they split after she was involved in a 'cheating' scandal with co-star Dean Wells, 40.

Reality return? The wild display comes after Ryan was recently pictured at Channel Nine studios for an appearance on Today Extra earlier this week. The sometimes stand-up comedian posed alongside Married At First Sight John Aiken, fueling speculation he was returning to the forthcoming season of the reality series

According to NW, Ryan will not be paired with a spouse but will enter the social experiment a single man in the hopes of luring away one of the 'married' women.

The source added: 'They want to bring him in halfway through the season at a dinner party and see if any of the girls ditch their husbands for him.'

Ups and downs: During the last season of MAFS Ryan was 'married' to Davina Rankin (pictured), 26 - but they split after she was involved in a 'cheating' scandal with co-star Dean Wells, 40

The news comes after Ryan confirmed he is officially back on the market.

Last week, the tradesman told Daily Mail Australia that he had split with New Zealand model Ayla Browne after a whirlwind three month romance.

The former couple met while Ryan was judging the Miss Hawaiian Tropic contest on the Gold Coast in September.

He's been a regular fixture on the party circuit since finding fame on Married at First Sight earlier this year.

====== 2686 ========

FEMALE CELEBRITY ASKED COP FOR COCAINE AT KYLE SANDILANDS' HALLOWEEN BASH

Kyle Sandilands and girlfriend Imogen Anthony are known to enjoy a good party or two.

But their recent Halloween bash may have been their wildest one yet, with Kyle revealing that the police had to be called to the Sydney shindig three times over the course of the night.

Speaking about the experience on The Kyle and Jackie O Show on Friday, the shock jock also said that a female celebrity at the star-studded event asked one of the cops for cocaine.

Oh my! Kyle Sandilands was shocked when a female celebrity at his Halloween party earlier this month offered a police officer cocaine

'An area commander came and everyone was lovely and I welcomed the police and I said "no drugs here, bring all your dogs!"'

He continued: 'And then some girl, a celebrity, I won't name her, walked up to the real policeman ... she walked up and went "oh you look like a real cop, you don't have any coke, do you?"'

While Kyle didn't identify the celebrity in question, he did mention that she hailed from Victoria.

'You don't have any coke, do you?' According to Kyle, the naive starlet, who hails from Victoria, asked the cop for cocaine

Kyle and Imogen held their infamous annual Halloween party in Kings Cross earlier this month.

While Kyle hosted the spooky festivities, his co-host KIIS FM Jackie ‘O’ Henderson was nowhere to be seen.

Named a A Nightmare In Kings Cross, held at The Club in Darlinghurst, the pair hosted a bevvy of entertainment's who's who, including reality stars and politicians.

Wild night: Kyle and Imogen held their infamous annual Halloween party in Kings Cross earlier this month

Star power: Among the guests were Love Island Australia's Edyn 'Mac' Macknezie (L) and Erin Barnett (R)

Among the guests were Love Island Australia's Edyn 'Mac' Macknezie and Erin Barnett, Married at First Sight's Dean Wells and Ryan Gallagher, DJ Havana Brown and even politician Sam Dastyari.

Other famous faces included The Real Housewives of Sydney's Athena X Levendi and Lisa Oldfield, and Big Brother winner Tim Dormer.

Imogen went all out for the party, dressing as The Diva Plavalaguna from The Fifth Element.

====== 2687 ========

MAFS'S CLARE VERRALL DEBUTS AN EYE-CATCHING ELEPHANT TATTOO AT THE FASHION AID 2018 LAUNCH PARTY

She shot to fame on the 2016 season of Married At First Sight.

And Clare Verrall was still courting attention on Thursday night, debuting a sizable elephant tattoo on her forearm at the Fashion Aid 2018 Launch Party at Mercedes Benz in Melbourne.

Commanding attention in a turquoise cocktail dress with matching mesh overlay, the animal advocate flaunted the new design to photographers.

Tatt's new! MAFS' Clare Verrall debuted an eye-catching elephant tattoo at the Fashion Aid 2018 Launch Party in Melbourne on Thursday evening

Wearing her locks out loose and flowing with a dark red lip, Clare also accessorised with a black statement clutch.

Keeping her jewelry to a minimum, she made sure all eyes were on her new ink.

Meanwhile, Married at First Star Carly Bowyer was a dream in tangerine at the glitzy soiree.

Blue hue: Commanding attention in a turquoise cocktail dress with matching mesh overlay, the animal advocate flaunted her trim figure

Sun-kissed: Meanwhile, Married at First Star Carly Bowyer was a dream in tangerine at the glitzy soiree

Showstopper: The 32-year-old put on a busty display in her figure-hugging orange asymmetrical number

Keeping them guessing: Despite being recently spotted locking lips with her ex, Troy Delmege, Carly stepped out with another ex, Bachelorette star Rob Colangelo, who was suited and booted in blue jacket and navy trousers

The 32 year-old put on a busty display in a figure-hugging orange asymmetrical number.

Despite being recently spotted locking lips with her ex Troy Delmege, Carly stepped out with another ex, Bachelorette star Rob Colangelo, who was suited and booted in blue jacket and navy trousers.

And it was a Married at First Sight reunion as the blonde also caught up with Patrick Miller and Sean Thomsen.

Gang's all here: It was a Married at First Sight reunion, as the blonde caught up with Patrick Miller (middle) and Sean Thomsen (right)

Relaxed attire: Both Sean and Patrick kept it simple in casual looks

Night out: The reality stars enjoyed the event with their respective dates on their arm

Boys night out: Patrick and Sean were joined by fellow reality star Nick Furphy (middle)

All smiles: Nick put a playful display with a brunette companion at the photo wall

The crew were joined by fellow reality star Nick Furphy, who put on a playful display with a brunette companion at the photo wall.

Brynne Edelsten also made an appearance at the bash with boyfriend of five months, Leno Cachia.

The ex-wife of millionaire Geoffrey Edelsten flaunted her slim pins in a thigh-skimming mesh dress.

Thigh is the limit! The ex-wife of millionaire Geoffrey Edelsten flaunted her legs in thigh-skimming mesh dress

All eyes on her: Stepping out in sky high heels, Brynne showcased her slim figure in the showstopping number

Still going strong: Brynne made an appearance at the bash with boyfriend of five months Leno Cachia

Also stepping out at the party was former Bachelor star Steph Dixon.

Shooting to fame during Sam Wood's 2016 season of the Ten dating series, the beauty flaunted her trim pins in a red trousers that featured skyscraper splits.

Showing off her washboard stomach with a white and red crop top, Steph was seen engrossed in conversation with MAFS's star Sean Thomsen.

Red alert: Also stepping out at the party was former Bachelor star Steph Dixon

Glam: Shooting to fame during Sam Wood's 2016 season of the Ten dating series, the beauty flaunted her trim pins in a red trousers that featured skyscraper splits

====== 2688 ========

JESINTA CAMPBELL TURNS HEADS IN STATEMENT DRESS AT THE TIFFANY & CO. START OF SUMMER SOIRÉE

She knows how to work a red carpet thanks to being a former pageant queen turned successful model.

And on Thursday, WAG Jesinta Campbell looked nothing short of glamorous as she led celebrity arrivals at the Tiffany & Co. Start of Summer soirée in Sydney.

The 27-year-old took the plunge in a colourful statement dress, as she joined the likes of models Jordan Barrett and Natalie Roser at the event.

Taking the plunge! Jesinta Campbell (pictured) turns heads in a colourful statement dress as she joins the likes of Jordan Barrett and Natalie Roser at the Tiffany & Co. Start of Summer soirée

The bottle blonde looked stylish in her long sleeve frock, which featured both silk and linen-like material.

Jesinta drew the eye thanks to the colours of the dress, with it being both orange and beige.

The dress had a twist feature at the waist and a flowing A-line skirt and she accessorised carrying a bright green leather Gucci handbag.

Quirky: The bottle blonde looked stylish in her long sleeve frock, which featured both silk and linen-like material

Edgy: Jesinta drew the eye thanks to the colours of the dress, with it being orange and beige. The dress had a twist feature at the waist and a flowing A-line skirt

Jesinta - who took on husband Buddy Franklin's surname - completed her look with her short locks slicked down.

Her makeup included dewy foundation, a nude lip and a bronzed eye.

She appeared to be solo at the event, after she and Swans star Buddy returned from Europe this week.

Girls' night? She appeared to be solo at the event, after she and Swans star Buddy returned from Europe this week

Flawless: Jesinta completed her look with her short locks slicked down. Her makeup included dewy foundation, a nude lip and a bronzed eye

Looking sharp! Australian model Jordan Barrett, 22, (pictured) also attended the event looking dapper in a pinstripe suit

Australian model Jordan Barrett, 22, also attended the event looking dapper in a pinstripe suit.

Jordan - who hails from NSW's idyllic Byron Bay - teamed the look with a black T-shirt and black leather loafers.

The fashion bad boy attended the event with friend and new mother Cheyenne Tozzi, who stunned in a copper sequinned playsuit.

The blonde pulled her locks back and off her face and wore a statement plum lip.

Looking good! The fashion bad boy attended the event with friend and new mother Cheyenne Tozzi (pictured), who stunned in a copper sequinned playsuit

Gorgeous: The blonde pulled her locks back and off her face and wore a statement plum lip

Model Natalie Roser meanwhile, flaunted her incredible figure in a nude floral slip dress.

The 28-year-old put her trim pins on display, the dress featuring a daring thigh-split.

She completed her look with her hair in a low ponytail and a Valentino shoulder bag.

Thigh's the limit: Model Natalie Roser (pictured) meanwhile, flaunted her incredible figure in a nude floral slip dress

Fancy seeing you here! Also in attendance was Australian singer Alli Simpson, 20, (pictured) who is the younger sister of singer Cody Simpson, 21

Suits you! Alli looked chic in black trousers which she teamed with a white printed blouse and red pointed heels

Also in attendance was Australian singer Alli Simpson, 20, who is the younger sister of singer Cody Simpson, 21.

Alli looked chic in black trousers which she teamed with a white printed blouse and red pointed heels.

She tied in the red heels with bright matching lipstick and had her long locks out and over her shoulders.

Meanwhile former Australian Idol star and singer Jessica Mauboy also attended the event, looking stylish in an edgy khaki jumpsuit.

The brunette had her locks out in loose curls and wore a statement plum lip.

Edgy: Meanwhile former Australian Idol star and singer Jessica Mauboy also attended the event, looking stylish in an edgy khaki jumpsuit

Picture perfect: The brunette had her locks out in loose curls and wore a statement plum lip

White hot! Australia's Next Top Model contestant Brooke Hogan (pictured) looked chic in a linen crop top and pants with a matching shawl

====== 2689 ========

BROOKLYN ROSS REVEALS WHAT REALLY HAPPENED ON BLIND DATE

He met a hunky match on Ten's Blind Date on Wednesday, after saying he's ready to settle down.

And now, KIIS FM star Brooklyn Ross has revealed what the producers of the dating show don't want viewers to know.

The 30-year-old revealed on The Kyle and Jackie O Show on Thursday that he and match Esteban Nicolas actually already knew each other.

The one thing producers don't want you to know! Brooklyn Ross (pictured) reveals what really happened on Blind Date when he met hunky love interest Esteban Nicolas

Brooklyn said that as soon as he came face-to-face with Melbourne-based Esteban once the divider was removed on the show, he remembered they met at this year's Mardi Gras in Sydney.

'Something that the producer's didn't put on the show or anything like that, is that when we had the reveal, me and Esteban had actually met before,' Brooklyn said.

'A stereotype of the gay world!'

Awkward! The 30-year-old revealed on The Kyle and Jackie O Show on Thursday that he and match Esteban Nicolas actually already knew each other (pictured on Blind Date)

A sign it's meant to be? Brooklyn said that as soon as he came face-to-face with Melbourne-based Esteban (pictured) once the divider was removed, he remembered they met at this year's Mardi Gras in Sydney

He added: 'So we walked home together on Mardi Gras night this year…We have a mutual friend and so we all walked to their house together.'

Kyle and Jackie soon got Esteban on air who said Brooklyn offered to walk him home as his phone had died.

However, Esteban admitted that on the show when the reveal happened, he didn't instantly recognise Brooklyn but thought his face looked familiar.

While Esteban was on air, another KIIS FM producer chimed in and said he heard that Brooklyn and Esteban couldn't keep their hands off each other backstage on Blind Date and kissed.

Sweet: Kyle and Jackie soon got Esteban on air who said Brooklyn offered to walk him home as his phone had died

Chemistry? While Esteban was on air, another KIIS FM producer chimed in and said he heard that Brooklyn and Esteban couldn't keep their hands off each other backstage on Blind Date and kissed

On next week's episode of Blind Date, the pair are set to enjoy a hot date, consisting of a glamorous photoshoot.

Kyle and Jackie probed the pair for details and Esteban said that the pair haven't yet slept together, but they shared a cheeky kiss.

Brooklyn also revealed that producers filmed them in bed together.

Esteban said that during the date, they were getting along so well but producers only allowed them to talk when the cameras were on.

Heating up? On next week's episode of Blind Date, the pair are set to enjoy a hot date, consisting of a glamorous photoshoot

'They were like no, no, no, you can only talk when the camera is there,' Esteban said.

Speaking of where their relationship is at now, the pair said they've kept in contact, but living in different states has made seeing each other hard.

'We haven't seen each other hey,' said Sydney-based Brooklyn.

'Well, we haven't had the opportunity,' Esteban said.

'The biggest problem is just where we are located I guess,' he added.

====== 2690 ========

INSTAGRAM SENSATION CELESTE BARBER SHOWS OFF HER PAINFUL-LOOKING SUNBURN WHILE IN HAWAII

Her hilarious photos and videos have made her the darling of Instagram, but Celeste Barber definitely wasn't laughing after getting badly sunburned in Hawaii recently.

The 36-year-old comedienne is currently enjoying an overseas beach holiday with her family, but she appears to have left the sunscreen at home.

Taking to Instagram Stories on Thursday, Celeste shared a mirror selfie, showing off her red raw skin.

Scroll down for video

Ouch: Her hilarious photos and videos have made her the darling of Instagram, but Celeste Barber definitely wasn't laughing after getting badly sunburned in Hawaii recently

'Goes to Hawaii once,' she captioned the painful-looking photo.

In the photos, her trousers are pulled down around her knees, and her white shirt is unbuttoned and rolled up over her shoulders.

She's seen wearing just black underwear and a floral print bra, revealing her extremely sunburned stomach and chest.

Her hair is piled into a topknot on her head, and she appears slightly pained in her expression.

Painful: The 36-year-old comedienne is currently enjoying an overseas beach holiday with her family, but she appears to have left the sunscreen at home

Fun in the sun: Sunburn aside though, Celeste and her family appear to be having a great time, with the star also sharing a series of videos from their relaxing holiday

Sunburn aside though, Celeste and her family appear to be having a great time, with the star also sharing a series of videos from their relaxing holiday.

'I'm sorry. That's not true. I'm not sorry,' she joked in a video of herself wrapped in a towel and standing in front of a stunning beach.

'We are f***ing smug now. We are horrible people. This is the worst. Ew. Nah, I'm leaving. This is horrible.'

Making the most of it: 'We are f***ing smug now. We are horrible people. This is the worst. Ew. Nah, I'm leaving. This is horrible,' she joked in an Instagram video

Cult following: Celeste - who boasts over 5 million followers on Instagram - found worldwide fame when she started parodying celebrities in her posts, seen here with her husband

Celeste - who boasts over 5 million followers on Instagram - found worldwide fame when she started parodying celebrities in her posts.

'In the Instagram world, it started out as being pretty, and filtered, and glossy, and sponsored. And wow,' she told The Daily Telegraph of her lucrative career spoofing stars in September.

'There’s people now, like myself, who are showing the other side of it. That’s why it has resonated. Like, "Thank God I don’t have to be on a yacht picking up my kids from school."'

====== 2691 ========

ACTRESS ISABELLE CORNISH DEMANDS ATTENTION AS SHE GOES TOPLESS IN PROVOCATIVE PHOTO

She is the Australian actress who has a penchant for mindfulness and healthy living.

And Isabelle Cornish has demanded the attention of her legions of followers by posting a topless photo of herself on Thursday.

The 24-year-old took to Instagram to share a snap of herself sitting by the rocks of a beach, wearing only a pair of bikini bottoms.

Scroll down for video

'All I need to do is be myself': Isabelle Cornish (pictured) courted attention on Instagram on Thursday as she posted a provocative topless photo while championing self-acceptance

In the photo she looks down at her exposed body which she edited over with a heart emoji.

In the caption, the beauty revealed she had an important message to convey about self-acceptance.

'Now I have your attention let me tell you something,' she wrote.

'I've been everything. And no matter what thing I worked my butt off for better or worse to become made me any more me.

'What made me ME is realising that I don't have to be anything. I don't have to push to become something.'

Positive message: In the caption, the beauty revealed she had an important message to convey about self-acceptance

'All I need to do is be myself. To surrender and embrace all that I am the good and the bad,' Isabelle continued.

The stunner went on to add that self-love, empowerment and learning to embrace your own 'uniqueness' was important.

'Stop trying to be anyone else. Don't let the external world influence you out of YOUR beliefs. The world needs your uniqueness, don't follow the crowd,' she concluded.

'The world needs your uniqueness!' The stunner went on to added that self-love, empowerment and learning to embrace your own uniqueness was important

Isabelle recently revealed that she doesn't go to her older sister, actress Abbie Cornish, for advice.

The younger Cornish sister told The Daily Telegraph back in August, 'We are very different and there is such a big age gap, so I don't really go to her for advice.'

While Abbie, 36 starred in Oscar-winning epic Three Billboards Outside Ebbing Missouri, Isabelle believes the siblings can't relate professionally as the pair have 'different styles.'

'I have a different style to her and we don't discuss acting,' she added.

====== 2692 ========

HEAVILY PREGNANT TAMMIN SURSOK SHOWCASES HER BLOSSOMING BABY BUMP IN A GOLD DRESS

There's only a few weeks left before she gives birth to her second child with husband Sean McEwen.

And Tammin Sursok, 35, looked positively radiant on Thursday as she took a stroll in Los Angeles with her five-year-old daughter Phoenix.

The Pretty Little Liars star showed off her gorgeous pregnancy figure in a gold dress that clung to her burgeoning bump.

She's glowing! Heavily pregnant Tammin Sursok showcases her blossoming baby bump in a gold dress as she steps out with daughter Phoenix in Los Angeles on Thursdsay

Tammin, who is 32-weeks pregnant, was all smiles with her first born child as they appeared to run errands together.

Keeping her look chic-yet-comfortable, the doting mother wore a large cardigan and flat loafers.

Her adorable daughter was dressed in a cute polkadot dress with a navy jumper with the words 'happy' emblazoned on it with colourful letters.

Happy days! Tammin was all smiles with her daughter as she kept her look comfortable and casual with flat shoes and no makeup

Tammin had her naturals curls out and tumbling over her shoulders, and showed off her pregnancy glow by wearing no makeup.

Opting to leave the house without a handbag, she carried her iPhone and keys in her hand.

The actress has previously admitted to having jitters about being pregnant the second time around, and on Thursday she hinted that she may have previously had a miscarriage this year.

'I’m so grateful that our tears have turned to smiles': The actress has previously admitted to having jitters about being pregnant the second time around, and on Thursday she hinted that she may have previously had a miscarriage this year

In an Instagram post, she shared: 'Last year on Thanksgiving I was pregnant. I’ve actually been pregnant for a VERY long time (more on that later) but this year looks different. And I’m so grateful that our tears have turned to smiles.'

Tammin announced in early September that she was expecting her second child with husband Sean McEwen.

The former Home And Away star wed the TV producer in 2011.

====== 2693 ========

HALSEY WEARS SAME SHEER MOSCHINO CATSUIT AS BELLA HADID

She's struck up a firm friendship with Bella Hadid recently, serenading her on the Victoria's Secret runway and partying with her and her beau The Weeknd afterward.

And Halsey proved she's now taking style tips from the model, as she donned the exact same Moschino catsuit that Bella rocked on the catwalk during Milan Fashion Week two months earlier.

The singer, 24, looked incredible in the entirely sheer one-piece, which featured a sexy corset-style bodice and embroidered scribbles all over, as she attended the Latin GRAMMY Awards in Las Vegas on Thursday.

Awkward! Halsey mirrored Bella Hadid as she went braless in the SAME sheer Moschino catsuit the model wore on the Milan Fashion Week runway two months earlier

The Without Me singer even took inspiration from Bella's styling on the runway back in September, also choosing to rock black vertiginous stilettos with the catsuit.

However Bella cinched in her waist with an oversized bow belt, while Halsey donned some black pants to cover her modesty.

The Him & I singer accessorised with a statement choker necklace and a metallic cuff bracelet.

Styling her short crop with a blunt fringe, Halsey - real name Ashley Nicolette Frangipane - framed her features with smoky eyeshadow and nude lipstick.

Stunning: The 24-year-old singer looked incredible in the entirely sheer one-piece, which featured a sexy corset-style bodice and embroidered scribbles all over, as she attended the Latin GRAMMY Awards in Las Vegas on Thursday (pictured with Pedro Capo)

Seeing double: The Without Me singer even took inspiration from Bella's styling, also choosing to rock black vertiginous stilettos with the catsuit

Dare to bare: Bella cinched in her waist with an oversized bow belt however, while Halsey donned some black pants to cover her modesty

Halsey and Bella have struck up quite the bond as of late, with the singer holding the model's hand and singing to her as she strutted down the runway for the Victoria's Secret show last week.

The duo - joined by Bella's rapper boyfriend The Weeknd - then continued the festivities into the evening and partied together after the show.

Meanwhile, Halsey made a statement last week when she encouraged women to be fearlessly 'inconvenient' while presenting her own poem Inconvenient Woman during Glamour's 2018 Women Of The Year Summit in New York.

Chic: The Him & I singer accessorised with a statement choker necklace and a metallic cuff bracelet

Saucy! Bella wore just a nude thong with her jumpsuit as she strutted the Moschino runway in September

Hats off to her: The modelling sensation topped off her revealing outfit with a black sequinned beret

'Brutally honest, outspoken and fearless. Goes with their gut, never favors appearance,' the talent's rhyme began.

Her poem continued: 'Cause who has time for vanity with opponents to extinguish? And don't you think that hint of silver hairline is…distinguished? In men, all these qualities, they make you a genius. But if you're a woman, you're an inconvenience.'

Days earlier, she surprised fans when she arrived at the Saturday Night Live set for a special performance with musical guest Lil Wayne.

Pals: Halsey serenaded Bella as she strutted down the runway for the Victoria's Secret show last week

Partying: She then partied with Bella and the model's boyfriend The Weeknd afterwards

Halsey blew the house down as she sung the chorus of Can't Be Broken - seconds before getting a tattoo design hand-drawn by the rapper.

Sharing a photo of her new arm tattoo, she wrote: '"On my libra scale I'm weighin sins and forgiveness" Got this yatted by @jonboytattoo seconds before walking on stage. thanks for writing this one out for me @liltubechi #libragang.'

Tagging Lil Wayne, her newest ink had his lyrics from his track She Will with a libra scale in between the words 'Sins' and 'Forgiveness'.

'Thank u for making this lil girl's dreams come true. Just performed "Can't Be Broken" on SNL with @liltunechi!!!! PINCH ME,' she shared.

New ink! It comes after Halsey revealed Lil Wayne designed a tattoo that she got inked on her arms just seconds before walking on the SNL stage for their surprise performance

====== 2694 ========

BRIDE AND PREJUDICE'S JESSICA AND SEYAT ARE ROCKED BY A CHEATING SCANDAL

Bride and Prejudice newlyweds Jessica and Seyat have already faced obstacles in their relationship thanks to his disapproving mother Fatima.

But it has emerged that trust is also an issue for the couple, with Jessica, 21, accusing her husband of 'cheating' after he admitting to flirting with other women.

In an interview with Who magazine published on Thursday, 20-year-old Seyat confessed he wasn't fully committed to monogamy when the couple started dating.

'It happened when we were together': Bride and Prejudice star Jessica (left) has accused her husband Seyat (right) of 'cheating' after he admitting to flirting with other women

'At the start of our relationship she wanted to date me but I didn't want a girlfriend, plus I still had feelings for my ex,' he said.

Seyat added that he would sometimes behave in a 'flirty' manner with other women 'when [he and Jessica] were together', which upset his partner.

Jessica said: 'Cheating for me isn't always just sleeping with another person. If you're telling me one thing and then going off flirting with other girls, then that's cheating.'

'Mother-in-law from hell': The young couple have already faced obstacles in their relationship thanks to Seyat's disapproving mother Fatima (right), who vowed to destroy their wedding

However, Jessica explained that Seyat's fickle nature and her jealousy are no longer causing problems in their relationship.

In fact, she claimed they are stronger than ever, adding that their past troubles have 'made them closer' and helped them 'grow' as a couple.

It comes after Jessica and Seyat's wedding aired on Bride and Prejudice on Tuesday.

'I didn't want a girlfriend': Seyat, 20, confessed he wasn't fully committed to monogamy when he first started dating Jessica (pictured on her wedding day)

The young lovebirds exchanged vows at a charming chapel in Byron Bay, despite the efforts of disapproving mother-in-law Fatima.

Fatima described the ceremony as 'the worst day of [her] life' and admitted she wanted to slap her Jessica for marrying her son.

'Yes, I do feel like I've lost Seyat,' she admitted to producers. 'This is all Jessica's fault. That's why I'm angry, I'm upset. I just felt like slapping her one!'

Happily ever after! Jessica and Seyat's wedding aired on Bride and Prejudice on Tuesday. The young lovebirds exchanged vows at a charming chapel in Byron Bay, New South Wales

====== 2695 ========

JANE HALIFAX IS BACK! REBECCA GIBNEY TO REPRISE HER ROLE AS FORENSIC PSYCHIATRIST IN HALIFAX F.P.

Australian actor Rebecca Gibney is to return to the small screen next year in a rebooted Halifiax f.p.

Rebecca, 53, will again play iconic forensic psychiatrist Jane Halifax on the Nine drama, which last aired in 2002.

Nine Entertainment Co chief executive Hugh Marks told the Sydney Morning Herald that the mini series Halifax: Retribution will commence production in 2019.

Scroll down for video

Jane is back! Rebecca Gibney (pictured) is set to reprise her role as forensic psychiatrist in a rebooted Halifax f.p, it was reported on Thursday

'I've had people asking me for years if we could bring Jane Halifax back,' Rebecca told the publication.

The blonde actress played the character of Jane Halifax for seven years, across 21 telemovies.

Many of Australia's A-list stars appeared on the program during its initial run, from the mid-1990s to the early 2000s, including Hugh Jackman, 50, Hugo Weaving, 58, Guy Pearce, 51, and Ben Mendelsohn, 49.

Small screen return: Nine Entertainment Co chief executive Hugh Marks told the Sydney Morning Herald that the mini series Halifax: Retribution will commence production in 2019. Pictured: Rebecca as Jane Halifax (left)

The new Halifax series will mark a return to form for Rebecca, who recently revealed that she suffered a major breakdown after wrapping up a promotional tour for her film Halifax f.p. at age 30.

Battling agoraphobia, she was unable to board her plane without five Valium, an experience which prompted her to seek psychiatric help.

Rebecca recalled that at the height of her illness she suffered from 15 panic attacks a day.

'I've had people asking me for years if we could bring Jane Halifax back,' Rebecca said

She credits extensive and continued professional advice for her recovery.

In the six months following the breakdown, the actress saw a psychiatrist twice a week and later made weekly visits in the year and a half there after.

'I'm lucky. I'm through it, but it doesn't mean I don't have down days. I just know how to deal with it now.'

If you or someone you know needs support, contact on Lifeline on 13 11 14 or go to lifeline.org.au

====== 2696 ========

JESSICA MAUBOY TURNS HEADS IN A EDGY GREEN JUMPSUIT AT THE TIFFANY & CO. START OF SUMMER SOIRÉE

She's used to taking centre stage in a variety of showstopping numbers.

And on Thursday night, Jessica Mauboy turned heads in a cool and casual ensemble while attending the Tiffany and Co. Start of Summer soiree in Sydney.

Taking the plunge in an edgy green jumpsuit, the former Australian idol, 29, wore her locks out in loose curls.

That's a casual look! Jessica Mauboy turns heads in a edgy green jumpsuit while stepping out at the Tiffany & Co. Start of Summer soirée

Stepping out in striking black boots, Jessica accessorised with a series of statement pieces including a chunky silver necklace and stylish pendant earrings.

And emphasising her flawless complexion, she wore dark brows with a deep plum lip.

Rockstar look: Taking the plunge in the eye-catching number, the former Australian idol, 29, wore her locks out in loose curls

Natural beauty: Emphasising her flawless complexion, Jessica wore dark brows with a deep plum lip

The edgy appearance is most likely yet another successful collaboration with the singer's long time stylist Mike Ayoubi.

And in March, the beauty spoke highly of his work.

'Mikey knows my body so well and the shape, my form, and I think my head space too,' she told Sydney Morning Herald.

Style: Stepping out in striking black boots, Jessica accessorised with a series of statement pieces including a chunky silver necklace and stylish pendant earrings

'He's a very spiritual person and he has such a big heart and he is completely open to everything I give him. He will be by my side, creating and manifesting the costumes.'

'We get racks in and we just put things together. I like to just feel comfortable when I'm being styled,' she said of the collaboration with her stylist in the past.

Fashion: The edgy appearance is most likely yet another successful collaboration with the singer's long time stylist Mike Ayoubi

Elsewhere, the Darwin-born songstress recently revealed wedding bells could soon be chiming for her.

Jessica has been dating her high school sweetheart boyfriend Themeli Magripilis for the past nine years.

She told Who in October: 'The craziest thing is I actually haven't envisioned us being married, and I think it will happen when it happens. It's that thing, like, what would heaven be like? You can't know until it's time and it's ready.'

Tying the knot? The Darwin-born songstress recently revealed wedding bells could soon be chiming with her high-school sweetheart boyfriend Themeli Magripilis





====== 2697 ========

KRIS SMITH SHARES HIS EXCITEMENT ABOUT BEING A FATHER FOR THE SECOND TIME WITH GIRLFRIEND SARAH

He already shares a eight-year-old son Ethan with former partner Dannii Minogue.

And Kris Smith has shared his excitement about being a father for the second time with girlfriend Sarah Boulazeris.

The 40-year-old model told The Daily Telegraph on Friday, 'The nursery is done, everything is organised, I am as ready as I will ever be.'

Scroll down for video

'I am as ready as I will ever be!' Kris Smith has shared his excitement about being a father for the second time with his girlfriend Sarah Boulazeris

'But Sarah is over it, she is ready to meet the little one, so am I,' he added.

Sarah, 28, is counting down the final few weeks until she gives birth in December after updating her followers that she 36 weeks into her pregnancy.

Kris, who has lent his star power to charities such as Fashion + Aid and Movember, told the publication that fatherhood has taught him the importance of giving back to the community.

'Everything amp­lifies when you have your own ­children,' he added.

Excited to meet their baby: The 40-year-old model told The Daily Telegraph on Friday, 'The nursery is done, everything is organised, I am as ready as I will ever be.' He added, 'But Sarah is over it, she is ready to meet the little one, so am I'

Active lifestyle: This comes after Sarah, who is a personal trainer, recently encouraged expecting mothers to exercise during pregnancy. 'It's better to keep moving than sitting and doing nothing, provided that you have a clearance from your doctor,' she said

Sarah, who is a personal trainer, recently encouraged expecting mothers to exercise during pregnancy.

'It's better to keep moving than sitting and doing nothing, provided that you have a clearance from your doctor,' she told The Daily Telegraph, on Monday.

This comes following the recent release of her own fitness program, Bump Fit, which designed for women at difference stages of their pregnancy.

Fit mamma: She also released of her own fitness program, Bump Fit, which designed for women at difference stages of their pregnancy. Sarah explained that her program is designed to keep an expecting mother strong to carry and deliver their baby

Speaking about her program she told the publication, 'This is bump-friendly. In trimester three… there are tips on how to change the activities when you have a bump in the way.'

Sarah explained that her program is designed to keep an expecting mother strong to carry and deliver their baby.

'Your body will be also be able to snap back quicker if you keep moving and maintaining that strength and mobility throughout pregnancy,' she added.

====== 2698 ========

DAVE HUGHES REVEALS HE'S DOING A SOCIAL MEDIA DETOX

He's got a legion of followers on Instagram and Twitter.

And this week, Australian radio star and comedian Dave Hughes has revealed that he's doing a social media detox.

The 47-year-old said that he made the decision to take a break from it all after finding himself 'achieving nothing' and 'getting involved in every argument.'

Scroll down for video

'I spent ten years getting involved in every argument and it's unnecessary': Dave Hughes reveals he's doing a social media detox

Talking to The Daily Telegraph this week, Dave said he's feeling more 'zen.'

'I spent ten years getting involved in every argument the world had and it's just unnecessary,' Dave said.

Despite still occasionally posting things, he said he used to be so consumed by social media.

'Two hours later and you've achieved nothing in life': Despite still occasionally posting things, he said he used to be so consumed by social media

'You look at your phone and scroll and then you look up and its two hours later and you've achieved nothing in life.'

He added: 'Once you get off you really don't have to worry about what people think.'

Dave meanwhile made headlines earlier this month when he tasted his own urine live on air.

Channelling his inner Bear Grylls, the comedian taste-tested his bodily fluid, sipping a sample from a cup through a straw.

He was challenged by his co-host Kate Langbroek to undergo the eyebrow-raising act during a segment on the Hit Network's Hughesy & Kate show.

Why? Dave meanwhile made headlines earlier this month when he tasted his own urine live on air (pictured with co-host Kate Langbroek)

The radio co-hosts had previously been discussing a disturbing news story that involved employees from a Chinese company being allegedly made to drink their own urine by bosses who were unimpressed by their work performances.

Kate then cheekily dared Dave to taste his urine, while listeners urged to vote on whether he should follow through with the challenge.

Dave appeared to be up for the task, heading to the bathroom to produce a sample and returning with a glass full of liquid and a straw in hand.

He's game! Channelling his inner Bear Grylls, the comedian taste-tested his bodily fluid, sipping a sample from a cup through a straw

He was then informed that 90 percent of listeners were in favour of him taking a gulp of faith.

'Look at me, are you ashamed of me? Just look at me, the straw is in my mouth,' Dave said, as he readied himself to take a sip.

After taking a sip, the former Project host admitted the experience surprisingly wasn't as bad as he expected.

'There's no issue there,' he stated, adding: 'It's like tea.'

'It's tepid. I don't have a problem with that.'

====== 2699 ========

MODEL SILVANA PHILIPPOUSSIS SHARES ADORABLE PHOTO CRADLING HER SECOND CHILD WITH HUSBAND MARK

She announced the birth of the newest addition to her family - daughter Maia Maria - on August 14.

And Silvana Philippoussis remains utterly smitten with her baby girl, sharing an adorable photo in which she cradling the 13-week-old.

Taking to Instagram on Thursday, the 34-year-old shared a photo is which she was dressed up after a dinner out.

Glamorous mama! Model Silvana Philippoussis shares adorable photo cradling her 13-week-old baby daughter with tennis star husband Mark after a dinner date

Maia can be seen just out of frame, her tiny hand reaching up to touch her beautiful mama.

The model captioned the photo: 'Last night’s dinner glam'.

In the photograph, the brunette's wavy hair lays over her shoulders, and she wears what appears to be a white silk robe.

Her makeup included a soft pink lip, winged eyeliner and bright blush on her high cheekbones.

Expanding brood: The model announced the birth of the newest addition to her family - daughter Maia Maria (pictured) - on August 14

Statement hoop earrings and a small gold pendant that appeared to be in the shape of Australia completed the look.

It comes after Silvana and husband Mark spent a family day at the beach.

Taking to Instagram on Monday, the beauty shared a collection of sweet photographs of herself with Mark and their brood.

Day out! It comes after Silvana and husband Mark spent a family day at the beach

Nice day: 'Love doing life with you handsome mu,' Silvana wrote, alongside a photo of herself planting a kiss on the tennis star's cheek. Pictured with husband Marl Philippoussis (right)

'Love doing life with you handsome mu,' Silvana wrote, alongside a photo of herself planting a kiss on the tennis star's cheek.

Later, the Romanian-born stunner shared photos of her bubs frolicking in the sand amid a stunning sunset backdrop.

'1st day at the beach as a family of four!' she gushed in one snap.

Little Maia Maria made their family jump from three to four, after the couple's first child, Nicholas arrived back in 2014.

====== 2700 ========

THE BIGGEST LOSER STAR TIFFINY HALL REVEALS HER BLOATED TUMMY

She is known for her perfectly sculpted body.

But on Thursday, The Biggest Loser trainer Tiffiny Hall shared a photo of her bloated tummy, revealing that it is caused from stress.

The 34-year-old was pictured wearing a green crop top paired with black leggings, while displaying a rather concerned look on her face.

'There's a reason I've been posting throwback pics': The Biggest Loser star Tiffiny Hall reveals her bloated tummy as she addresses pregnancy speculation

'Reality Check! Instagram isn't real life. There's a reason I've been posting throwback pics the last couple of days, and that's because I've been hit with full on bloating (I'm not pregnant)' she wrote.

'I almost didn't post this, but trainers have bad days too and it's important to share the highs and the lows with you.

'Sensitive tum... That time of the month... stress bloating... that’s me.'

Abs of steel: The 34-year-old trainer is known for her perfectly sculpted body

The personal trainer continued: 'Your body has a powerful way of reminding you about the importance of balance, so when the bloating hits that's what I try to remember.'

Tiffiny also explained the importance of having a balanced lifestyle and gave some expert tips to fans who suffer the same thing.

'Don’t over train, over eat, over stress, over commit, overwhelm – you'll end up worse in the long run. That goes for the unders too – don't under eat or under train. Your body (and gut) needs a balance of good food and movement to be happy,' she said.

Tips: Her number one tip for gut health was to 'stay active' and 'keep moving'

Her number one tip for gut health was to 'stay active' and 'keep moving.'

Tiffany gave birth to her son Arnold in September last year.

Arnie is her first child with her comedian husband Ed Kavalee, 39, who she married in 2014.

====== 2701 ========

MEGAN GALE, 43, TALKS 'EXPANDING HER FAMILY' WITH FIANCE SHAUN HAMPSON, 30

Megan Gale has opened up about 'expanding her family' and having more children.

During an Instagram Q&A session with fans on Thursday, the mum-of-two also discussed the 'difficulties' of motherhood with several candid comments.

The model, 43, and fiancé Shaun Hampson, 30, are currently proud parents to son River, four, and one-year-old daughter Rosie.

Scroll down for video

'I love being pregnant!': Megan Gale, 43, talks 'expanding her family' with fiance Shaun Hampson, 30, while discussing 'difficulties' of motherhood (Megan pictured with son River, four, and one-year-old daughter Rosie)

While responding to a fan that asked about the possibility of having more children in the future, the model hinted they haven't ruled out welcoming a new addition.

Megan responded: 'I love being pregnant, giving birth and having kids/being a Mum.

'We are happy and blessed with two kids but never say never'.

'We are happy and blessed with two kids but never say never': The model hinted at having more children during an Instagram Q&A on Thursday while gushing about her 'love' of being pregnant and giving birth (Pictured in September 2017 while pregnant with Rosie)

'The million dollar question': Megan joked that both her and Shaun (pictured) are often asked about having a third child

When asking how she manages to juggle a 'hectic work life' with having two small children, Megan responded: 'Ha... with great difficulty'.

The beauty then thanked both of her children's grandmothers for pitching in, and revealed that her luxury of often being able to work from home is an added bonus.

While still on the subject of balancing life, Megan continued: 'Some days I crush it and some days it gets the better of me'.

A balancing act: Megan also revealed how she balances both her work and home life, while admitting she often has to 'check in with herself' to stay focused

Megan then explained how she often has to take a step back to find her focus.

She continued: 'I've always had a tendency to be a workaholic so now I'm a Mum I always keep checking in with myself.

'And ask myself if I'm making my kids the priority and let that guide me.

'I'll do what is an absolute priority but I'll often shut the laptop and leave my phone in another room and go play with my kids and give them my 100% FULL attention.

'They recharge me, keep me present and remind me of what's important'.

====== 2702 ========

CHEYENNE TOZZI SPARKS ENGAGEMENT SPECULATION TO MARLON TEIXERIA AT THE TIFFANY & CO. START OF SUMMER

Model Cheyenne Tozzi and her Marlon Teixeira recently welcomed her first daughter.

And it seems wedding bells could be on the horizon for the 29-year who stepped out at the Tiffany & Co. Start of Summer soirée, on Thursday.

As the stunner posed for photos along the media wall, she revealed what looked like a sizable diamond - possibly an engagement ring - on her left hand.

Engagement bling? Model Cheyenne Tozzi has sparked engagement speculation as she reveals a stunning sparkling ring at the Tiffany & Co. Start of Summer soirée

Her finger was also adorned with a gold band surrounded by little sparkling diamonds around it, creating a halo effect.

The blonde beauty flaunted her incredible post-baby body in a cooper sequinned playsuit matched with a velvet belt.

But her ring was particularly noticeable in another photo, where she was photographed alongside her good friend and fellow model Jordan Barrett.

Sparkling: Her ring was particularly noticeable in another photo, where she was photographed alongside her good friend and fellow model Jordan Barrett

As she posed in front of Tiffany & Co. neon lights, Cheyenne provided a better glimpse of dazzling jewel in all its glory on her delicate hand.

New parents Cheyenne and partner Marlon have been dating since 2017 after meeting through mutual friend Jordan.

Daily Mail Australia has reached out to Cheyenne's management for comment.

New parents: Cheyenne and Marlon have been dating since 2017 after meeting through mutual friend Jordan

She recently gushed about her Brazilian model beau, telling Harper's Bazaar: 'He speaks to the baby in Portuguese, he sings her little songs.

'I think she's over my voice already, so when she hears Marlon she tap-dances in there. It's been a special time for us,' she added.

The proud new parents welcomed their daughter in September 2018.

Cheyenne was previously engaged to Jon Adgemis, KPMG head of mergers and acquisitions, before splitting up in March 2017.

====== 2703 ========

CHEYENNE TOZZI FLAUNT STUNNING POST-BABY FIGURE WHILE ENGAGING IN FLIRTY DISPLAY WITH JORDAN BARRETT

She gave birth to daughter Dahlia De La Lune less than three months ago.

And on Thursday night, Cheyenne Tozzi commanded attention with her incredible post-baby figure at the Tiffany & Co. Start of Summer soirée in Sydney.

Wearing a copper sequinned playsuit, the 27-year-old showcased her endless legs in the racy number.

Yummy mummy! Cheyenne Tozzi (pictured) boasted a stunning post-baby figure in copper sequinned playsuit on Thursday night while putting on a playful display with male model Jordan Barrett

Emphasizing her flawless features, she pulled her blonde locks back and off her face and wore a statement plum lip.

And stepping out in burgundy strap sandals, Cheyenne kept her accessories to a minimum - allowing an eye-catching diamond on her ring finger to take centrestage.

The appearance of the sparkler prompted speculation the beauty's boyfriend Marlon Teixeira - and father of baby Dahlia - may have popped the question.

Strike a pose: Emphasizing her flawless features, she pulled her blonde locks back and off her face and wore a statement plum lip

Model pair: While her Brazilian model partner was nowhere to be seen at the swanky bash, Cheyenne cosied up to longtime close pal, Jordan Barrett

Close! Jordan gazed adoringly at his good friend while she made sure the cameras caught her best angle

Hitting the town: Close for many years, the pair seemed completely at ease in each other's company

Cover star: The 22 year-old who hails from Byron Bay looked dapper in a pinstripe suit

Blue steel: Cutting a handsome figure, he teamed the look with a black T-shirt and black leather loafers

Tactile: The twosome got very hands-on with each other as they hammed it up in front of the cameras

And while the Brazilian model was nowhere to be seen at the swanky bash, Cheyenne cosied up to longtime close pal, Jordan Barrett.

The 22 year-old who hails from Byron Bay looked dapper in a pinstripe suit.

Cutting a handsome figure, he teamed the look with a black T-shirt and black leather loafers.

Goofing around: Cheyenne struggled to keep it together as Jordan appeared to crack a never-ending series of gags

Tender: At one point, Jordan placed a hand on Cheyenne's cheek while she cheekily stuck her tongue out

After posing up a storm together, the pair put on a very flirty display for the cameras.

The glam appearance comes after Cheyenne first introduced her daughter to the world with a post on Instagram late last month.

The model had only revealed her pregnancy in September during an interview with Harper's Bazaar Australia.

All over each other: The flirtatious display continued throughout the night

What's so funny? They pair grinned from ear to ear while descending into a fit of giggles

'I'm not the person who really ever daydreamed about having kids, getting married, all that,' she told the magazine.

'But I have the absolute sense that this baby is meant to be - it's a huge change, but it's right for me now.'

She added: 'People think I'm this outrageous party person, but I'm really the opposite.'

Vogue: Cheyenne flaunted her cutglass cheekbones while pretending to get serious, encouraging Jordan to then do the same

====== 2704 ========

MODEL NATALIE ROSER REVEALS SHE BECAME INCREDIBLY ILL AND DEPRESSED AFTER GOING ON A DIET

Former Miss Universe Australia finalist has admitted her perfect physique once came at a cost.

On Thursday, the model revealed she quit all sugar and carbs to obtain her incredible physique, but became incredibly ill and depressed.

Speaking to Daily Mail Australia, the 28-year-old said: 'I went off sugar and got really confused and felt sick and depressed.'

EXCLUSIVE: 'I quit sugar and carbs and got really sick': Model Natalie Roser admits she became incredibly ill and 'felt depressed' after going on a diet

'I cut out all fruits, all carbs, I don’t know what I was doing - it was nuts,' she confessed.

'I actually don’t remember what I actually ate, I kind of blocked it all out.'

However, the blonde beauty has since prioritised getting her health back on track by introducing fitness slowly into her daily routine.

The Maxim model also tries to book in regular spa treatments to help detoxify her body.

'I went off sugar and got really confused and felt sick and depressed' she told Daily Mail Australia on Thursday

While visiting To Wonderland Spa in North Bondi this week, Natalie said she's started to detox before Christmas.

'Obviously all the travel and being in what’s known as such a toxic city like LA, it was really nice to come back to Australia and start my detox process.' she said.

Natalie also discussed Christmas plans now she's back Down Under and said she's looking forward to spending time with her family and boyfriend, former Neighbours star Harley Bonner.

'Christmas will be with my family,' she said.

'Last year I was in Melbourne for the first time with Harley’s family, and this year we are going to spend it up in Newcastle where I grew up.'

'I cut out all fruits, all carbs, I don’t know what I was doing - it was nuts. I actually don’t remember what I actually ate, I kind of blocked it all out,' Natalie added

The right way: The blonde beauty has prioritised getting her health back on track by introducing fitness slowly into her daily routine

'It’ll be lots of food, hanging around the pool, we do board games and spend quality time together,' she added.

The bikini model continued: 'Harley will be with me and be home in December, I actually can’t wait for him to be home, because I hate any time apart from him.

'I’m so excited because this time I get to show him more of Newcastle and where I’m from,' she said.

Natalie and her Australian actor beau Harley first went public with their relationship in early 2017.

====== 2705 ========

LOVE ISLAND'S CASSIDY MCGILL SPEAKS OUT AFTER BEING SLAMMED FOR REVEALING SHE SKIPPED THE GYM

Cassidy McGill took to social media on Thursday to share an important message.

After skipping four days of workouts due to a rolled ankle, the Love Island star posted several videos to to Instagram Stories, discussing how glad she was to be back at the gym.

But the 23-year-old revealed that it's her mind, more than her body, that was reaping the benefits.

'There's people dying in Africa and you're complaining about not exercising for four days:' Love Island's Cassidy McGill speaks out after being slammed for revealing she skipped workouts

'I haven't wanted to look in the mirror. I've just felt really, really sh**t. Mentally, physically, emotionally, spiritually,' she said to camera.

Wearing a white athletic crop top, Cassidy went on to say that see saw working out as therapeutic.

'I want to remind you guys that training and exercising even just walking, is a free form of therapy. You should try it,' she said.

Distress: 'I haven't wanted to look in the mirror. I've just felt really, really sh**t. Mentally, physically, emotionally, spiritually,' she said to camera. 'I want to remind you guys that training and exercising even just walking, is a free form of therapy. You should try it'

Not a fan? Not everyone appreciated the blonde's positive message however, with one anonymous person writing her a negative message

'You should try it. Don't always look at exercise as something to make you look good,' she told her Instagram fans.

She concluded: 'Take into considering how good it will be for your mental health.'

Not everyone appreciated the blonde's positive message however, with one anonymous person writing her a negative message.

It read: 'There's people dying in Africa and your (sic) complaining that having not exercised in 4 days has mad you feel depressed'.

Cassidy replied: 'What must it be like to be the person that looks for the negative in everything?'

Fighting fit: The former reality star may be quite right, as several studies have shown a positive link between improved mental health and exercise

Cassidy replied: 'What must it be like to be the person that looks for the negative in everything?'

The former reality star may be quite right, as several studies have shown a positive link between improved mental health and exercise.

A study led by the Black Dog Institute and published in 2017 revealed that as little as one hour of exercise a week can help prevent depression.

For confidential support call the Lifeline 24-hour crisis support on 13 11 14.

====== 2706 ========

THE BLOCK'S SUZI TAYLOR FLAUNTS HER FAMOUS CLEAVAGE DURING NIGHT OUT WITH MAFS' NASSER SULTAN

They were the biggest characters on their respective reality television shows.

So it's guaranteed that The Block's Suzi Taylor, 47, and Married At First Sight's Nasser Sultan, 51, would have had plenty of stories to share on Thursday night.

The controversial characters stepped out for dinner in Sydney, and making their guest-list even more exclusive was the addition of high-class escort Samantha X.

Scroll down for video

Who knew they were friends? The Block's Suzi Taylor flaunts her famous cleavage during night out with MAFS' Nasser Sultan

'I'm the luckiest bloke in Sydney tonight,' Nasser wrote on one picture of the pair.

In the photograph, the pint-sized TV personality is seen planting a friendly kiss on the cheek of the memorable Blockhead from 2015.

Despite Sydney being battered by strong winds on Thursday, Suzi failed to cover up her famous assets as she braved the chill in a very low-cut black top.

Lots to talk about? Both Nasser and Suzi were the biggest characters on their respective reality TV shows

Two becomes three: The controversial characters united for dinner in Sydney, and making their guest-list even more exclusive was the addition of high-class escort Samantha X

The mother-of-three, who is rarely seen in public, was last spotted on Bondi Beach hoping to catch a glimpse of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle in October.

'I'm here seeing the royals,' Suzi said. 'I just want to see Meghan with her feet on the Bondi sand and in the water hopefully.'

While Suzi has mostly stayed out of the spotlight for the past two years, fans of The Block will remember her from the 2015 season.

She appeared as part of the 'Single Mums' renovating team alongside then-BFF Yvonne 'Voni' Cosier.

Even though the pair placed last on the show, they still walked away with a tidy profit of $349,000

Out of the shadows: Suzi, who hails from Queensland's Gold Coast, has mostly spent the past year-and-a-half out of the spotlight

Her wild antics, including an infamous topless dance on a boat in Melbourne, made her one of the show's most controversial stars.

During filming, she was also found collapsed and unconscious after suffering from 'exhaustion'.

Before rising to fame on The Block, she posed nude for Penthouse magazine in the early '90s and briefly dated INXS singer Michael Hutchence.

====== 2707 ========

DIDN’T GET AN INVITE TO PARADISE? MEGAN MARX AND JAKE ELLIS HAVE CONFIRMED THEY'RE BACK TOGETHER

They announced their shock split in August but have since been caught on numerous occasions hanging out together since their 'breakup'.

And now Megan Marx and Jake Ellis have finally confirmed they're back together.

Taking to Instagram, the blonde, 29, shared a tender image of the couple with a lengthy post announcing the good news.

Didn’t get an invite to Paradise? Megan Marx and Jake Ellis confirm they're back together...months after fans suggested they faked their split to be cast on Fiji-based Bachelor spin-off

'I have a pile of love letters in the drawer next to my bed,' she wrote.

'They’re all from Jake and most of them I didn’t deserve. I spent the course of our relationship with one foot in and one foot out, and the letters are pleas to remind me what we had, what I’d be giving up if I ran.'

Explaining she fled to Bali in the wake of the split, she claimed Jake worked hard to win her back with a string of romantic gestures, with successful results.

'I found someone that took responsibility, fought relentlessly for me, and has taken time to know me, and love me. I said in Paradise that I couldn’t imagine my life without you and that hasn’t changed. You’re my best friend and my home.

'I found someone that took responsibility, fought relentlessly for me!' Explaining she fled to Bali in the wake of the split, Megan claimed Jake worked hard to win her back with a string of romantic gestures, with successful results

Finishing the post, she wrote: 'I love you. Onwards and upwards you sexy hunk of a man.'

However, fans have long questioned the 'split' after the pair were frequently spotted together over the past few months.

And with their break-up announced days after fellow reality stars Keira Maguire and Jarrod Woodgate called it quits, some fans on social media became suspicious after the break-ups seemed perfectly timed with the season two Bachelor in Paradise casting in September.

'It’s funny how these guys all split this week, yet they’re all said to be going on Bachelor In Paradise where you have to be single to go on the show,' one fan wrote on Instagram .

After falling in love on this year's series of Bachelor in Paradise, Megan and Jake's carefully worded breakup announcement also led some to believe that they may be gunning for a 'reunion' story-line on season two of Paradise.

'Megan and I are sadly taking a break from our relationship together,' Jake said.

He added: 'I wish with all of my heart that this wasn’t happening right now but the only thing I can hope for is that one day soon we will rekindle our special love and come back together stronger than ever before.'





====== 2708 ========

TAMMY HEMBROW POSTS AUSSIE CASTING CALL TO FIND A NEW INSTAGRAM MODEL FOR HER ACTIVE-WEAR BRAND

Tammy Hembrow is currently searching for the next big Australian Instagram model.

The 24-year-old influencer recently shared a casting call to find four females, and their friends, to pose for her active-wear brand Saski Collection on the Gold Coast.

But there's one surprising condition if you win the chance to pout alongside Tammy.

Scroll down for video

'Clear lighting and minimal filters': Tammy Hembrow posts Aussie casting call to find a new Instagram model for her active-wear brand ...but there's one surprising condition if you win

Whereas professional models tend to get flown around the world to glamorous locations for their photoshoots, that isn't the case here.

Tammy's casting for Saski Collection states that 'flights and accommodation are not included' and you must make your own way to Queensland, at your own expense.

The purpose of the campaign is to 'showcase women that embody strength, beauty and uniqueness and rock it with confidence'.

Dig deep! Tammy's casting call for Saski Collection states that 'flights and accommodation are not included' and you must make your own way to Queensland, at your own expense

Tammy shared a blog earlier this month with all the instructions on how to enter.

Among the conditions, the post stated that the photos you tag the brand in on Instagram 'should have clear lighting and minimal filters'.

The star also asks applicants to write 'what being a #saskigirl would mean to you' in their captions alongside their most recent selfies.

Learn from the best? Among the conditions, the mum-of-two's post stated that the photos you tag the brand in on Instagram 'should have clear lighting and minimal filters'

Tammy completed a workout session wearing a pair of barely-there shorts on Thursday, in a public gym on the Gold Coast.

No doubt giving patrons an eyeful, the 24-year-old proudly flaunted her fit physique and infamous derriere near the exercise equipment.

Tammy was wearing a pair of her brand Saski Collection's Seamless Booty Shorts in grey, which are now sold out on her website.

====== 2709 ========

VIDEO: HILARIOUS MOMENT WHERE HOLLY CAN'T GET OVER DEC'S 'NIPPLY' SHIRT

Video: Hilarious moment where Holly can't get over Dec's 'nipply' shirt

This is the hilarious moment Holly point our Dec's 'nipply' shirt. As the duo were presenting I'm a Celebrity Get Me Out of Here Holly couldn't help but point out the buttons on Dec's shirt that resembled nipples.

====== 2710 ========

VIDEO: GWEN STEFANI & BLAKE MAKE A 'HOT CHEETO TURKEY' ON THANKSGIVING

Video: Gwen Stefani & Blake make a 'Hot Cheeto Turkey' on Thanksgiving

Gwen Stefani & Blake Shelton make a 'Hot Cheeto Turkey' for their Thanksgiving while with family in Tennessee. Later Gwen shows that Blake make good on his People's Choice Acceptance speech promise to put the award...

====== 2711 ========

VIDEO: 'IT'S ABOUT BLENDING BOO' KIM KARDASHIAN GETS MAKEUP DONE BY NORTH

Video: North West throws tantrum when Kim Kardashian ruins her makeup

'My makeup artist's usually don't act this way:' North West throws tantrum when Kim Kardashian moves, ruining North's makeup tutorial. North was using Kim's new glam smokey bible palette to pamper her mama.

====== 2712 ========

VIDEO: JENNIFER LOPEZ SHOWS A-ROD HER THANKSGIVING SCAVENGER HUNTS

Video: Jennifer Lopez shows A-Rod her Thanksgiving scavenger hunts

Jennifer Lopez shows Alex Rodriguez how she has Thanksgiving scavenger hunts for the kids in the backyard ahead of the holiday.

====== 2713 ========

VIDEO: JOHN BARROWMAN’S HUSBAND THINKS NOEL AND HIS OTHER HALF MIGHT CLASH

Video: John Barrowman’s husband thinks Noel and his other half might clash

John Barrowman’s husband Scott Gill rang into I'm A Celebrity Extra Camp to talk about John's experience in the jungle. When asked about the possible friendships that he is building on the show, he said that Noel...

====== 2714 ========

VIDEO: MARIAH CAREY PREPARES THANKSGIVING YAMS WITH HER TWINS

Video: Mariah Carey prepares Thanksgiving yams with her twins

Mariah Carey posted a video of herself with her twins Moroccan and Monroe as they lay marshmallows on top of yams ahead of Thanksgiving dinner. The 49-year-old singer was wearing a very chic gold sequined jacket...

====== 2715 ========

VIDEO: RITA ORA CAUGHT LIP SYNCING DURING MACY'S THANKSGIVING PARADE

Video: Rita Ora lip syncs during Macy's Thanksgiving Parade in NYC

Pop artist Rita Ora is caught on camera caught lip syncing to her music while on a float during the 2018 Macy's Day Thanksgiving Parade in New York City.

====== 2716 ========

VIDEO: HARRY REDKNAPP TALKS ABOUT HIS LOVE FOR HIS WIFE IN I'M A CELEBRITY

Video: Harry Redknapp talks about his love for his wife in I'm a Celebrity

Football manager, Harry Redknapp, talks about the love he has for his wife in 'I'm a Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!'. His fellow campmates get emotional, as he says he 'loves his wife too much', in his 54 year...

====== 2717 ========

VIDEO: 'DESSERT LIFE!' KHLOE KARDASHIAN & TRISTAN THOMPSON SHARE FEAST

0:07

People run away as shots are fired inside a mall in Alabama

====== 2718 ========

VIDEO: THE APPRENTICE: MOMENT JASMINE PUSHES SABRINA AWAY FROM HER

Video: The Apprentice: Moment Jasmine pushes Sabrina away from her

This is the awkward moment Jasmine pushes Sabrina away from her as they hug outside the boardroom after she was fired from BBC's The Apprentice.

====== 2719 ========

VIDEO: I'M A CELEB'S EMILY ATACK DOES HER BEST GEMMA COLLINS IMPRESSION

Video: I'm a Celeb's Emily Atack does her best Gemma Collins impression

On Wednesday's I'm a Celebrity Get Me Out of Here Emily Atack left her fellow campmates in stitches after doing a hilarious Gemma Collins impression. The ladies all joined in but Emily stole the show with her...

====== 2720 ========

COUPLE FINALLY AWARDED $1 MILLION IN COMPENSATION 10 YEARS AFTER WERE WRONGFULLY TASED BY POLICE

A couple will finally receive more than $1 million in compensation after being wrongfully tasered by police a decade ago.

Catherine Atoms and her husband Robert Cunningham were wrongfully arrested, detained and tased by police outside a hotel in Fremantle, Western Australia, in 2008.

An eight-year court battle saw the pair eventually awarded $1.1 million in compensation in 2016, but the State and Police immediately appealed the decision.

Today, that decision has been overruled, Perth Now reports.

Catherine Atoms (pictured) and her husband Robert Cunningham were wrongfully arrested, detained and tased by police outside a hotel in Fremantle in 2008

Maurice Blackburn Principal, Phil Gleeson, hopes today's decision will enable Ms Atoms and Mr Cunningham to 'move on with their lives'.

'The damages awarded to them by the District Court is a reflection of the profound effect this incident has had on my clients and there is now an opportunity for the State Government to draw a line under this matter, he said.

Ms Atoms and Mr Cunningham had been helping a group of people who had fallen into a bush outside the Esplanade Hotel in Fremantle in 2008 when police arrived and tased them, believing they were causing a disturbance.

An eight year court battle saw the pair eventually awarded $1.1 million in compensation in 2016, but Police and the State appealed the decision (Pictured, Robert Cunningham)

In 2016, a District Court ruled they were subject to battery, false imprisonment and maliciously prosecuted and awarded them $1.1 million in compensation.

The $1.1 million breaks down into $1.024 million to Ms Atoms to account for her loss of earnings, distress and damage to her back, while the remaining $110,000 was awarded to Mr Cunningham.

However, the pair are still yet to receive a penny of this money as both the State and the police launched separate appeals against the action.

In court, State Counsel George Tannin quoted the Police Act which reads that the State is liable for a wrongful act 'that results from anything done by a member of the police force, without corruption or malice'.

'The Crown cannot be held liable for malicious or corrupt conduct by police officers – all of this conduct (in this case) has its genesis in malice,' Mr Tannin said.

Despite this, the police appeal was rejected in August and today, Western Australia's highest court also dismissed the State's argument.

The Police appeal was dismissed in August and today, Western Australia's highest court also dismissed the State's argument

Outside court today, Ms Atoms told reporters she hoped the case would change the attitude towards allegations of misconduct.

'We should focus on building communities and keeping harmless people out of reach of the criminal justice system' she said.

Mr Cunningham added that the case was a 'costly exercise and a great concern to Western Australian citizens if the State's role in justice and the rule of law is consigned only to civil procedures'.

Mr Cunningham is a law professor at Curtin University in Perth and Ms Atoms started a new job as a community engagement consultant after the incident in 2008. She is now a sustainability consultant.

====== 2721 ========

HEART-POUNDING MOMENT A WINGSUIT DAREDEVIL GRABS ONTO A PLANE AFTER JUMPING AT 13,500FT

This is the heart-pounding moment one wingsuit daredevil took to the skies to perform an extraordinary jump at 13,500 feet.

Wingsuit pilot Marshall Miller teamed up with pilot Mike Patey and fellow wingsuiter Scott Palmer in order to carry out the epic plane stunt across Utah with the DRACO back country bush plane.

During the footage, viewers are left open-mouthed as the adrenaline junkie effortlessly holds onto the wing of the plane while plummeting to the ground.

This is the heart-pounding moment wingsuit daredevil Marshall Miller and fellow wingsuiter Scott Palmer took to the skies to perform a jump at 13,500 feet

Viewers are left open-mouthed as the adrenaline junkies take to the skies inside the DRACO bush plane

In the video the two men are seen launching themselves out of the bush plane at more than 13,000 feet in the sky

In the video the men are seen launching themselves out of the bush plane over stunning landscape.

Bush planes are a type of small aircraft designed to land on and take off from grass airstrips or rough ground and carry passengers to remote areas.

Pilot, Mile Patey, who spent five months designing and building the plane, is heard telling his fellow wingsuiters: 'Alright jumpers you're going to have to position me.

'You're right in the sun so I'm half blind.'

As the bush plane slowly levels with the wingsuiters both men draw closer and are able to eventually grab hold of the wings of the plane.

The plane was designed and built by pilot Mile Patey who had to level his plane with the wingsuiters during the hear-pounding stunt

As Mr Patey levels his plane the wingsuiters before they are able to grab hold of the wings of the DRACO

As Miller grabs onto the bush plane the pilot is heard saying: 'Nice work boys! Beautiful work!

'I am flying with superstars.'

As both wingsuiters parachute back down to the ground the pilot shares his awe at the incredible stunt and is heard saying: 'So cool. Whatever that was it was money. Unreal boys.

'That was beautiful. I love you guys!'

As the wingsuiters parachute back down to the ground the pilot is heard saying: 'That was beautiful. I love you guys!' On Instagram Marshall Miller wrote: 'It took us roughly 10 attempts to line it up and make it happen'

On Instagram Marshall Miller wrote: 'This was actually pretty hard to do.

'Long/short @mike_patey had to fly his badass bush plane ‘Draco’ as dirty as possible (slow and steep) while @scottpalmerair and I had to fly at max performance to match up.

'As soon as we had proof of concept @gopro sent out a couple buds to help capture the flights and here is the edit. It took us roughly 10 attempts to line it up and make it happen.'

====== 2722 ========

GOTCHA! MOTHER BEAR PLANTS A KISS ON HER ADORABLE CUB AS THEY PLAY PEEK-A-BOO IN FINLAND

Stunning images capture the moment a mother bear was caught kissing her cub following an afternoon of games.

Valtteri Mulkahainen, 59, from Finland was mesmerised when he was fortunate enough to witness the incredible moment a mother bear acted as though she was human when interacting with her babies in the town of Martinselkonen - near the border with Russia.

Having been photographing for almost eight years, Valtteri who is passionate about photographing nature and animals said that he found the moment amusing, witnessing such a large animal acting as though it was human.

He said: 'The bear behaved like a human. She lovingly watched her baby bear, following it around the tree.

'In the pictures the bear played with other cubs around the trees too. They climbed trees and went down for kisses.'

Valtteri Mulkahainen captured the moment a mother bear played with and kissed her cub in the town of Martinselkonen, Finland

The photographer said: 'The bear behaved like a human. She lovingly watched her baby bear, following it around the tree'

The baby bear was lovingly leaning towards its mother's face when she also leaned in and planted a big kiss on the cub's face

The cub slyly watches its mother, thinking she doesn't realise its whereabouts during what looked like game playing

====== 2723 ========

MIGRANTS JUMP INTO MEDITERRANEAN AFTER BOAT CATCHES FIRE

This is the terrifying moment a group of illegal immigrants had to jump for their lives into the ocean when their tiny inflatable boat erupted into a blazing inferno.

The 34 migrants, including nine women, were attempting to get from Africa to Spain when the boat there were in caught fire on Monday.

Footage of the accident was captured by Portuguese rescuers who threw the migrants a dinghy and alerted the Spanish coastguard.

The Spanish coastguard had to rescue 34 migrants stranded in the middle of the Mediterranean on Monday after the dinghy they were in burst into flames

Dramatic video shot by the Portuguese air force shows the vessel catching fire before the migrants are forced to abandon ship

Eventually rescue boats and a passing fishing vessel managed to rescue the migrants, all of whom survived.

The video, published by the Portuguese Air Force, shows how the men and women are crammed into the tiny boat when flames suddenly erupt among them.

Fire can be seen shooting into the boat and into the water before the whole inflatable is engulfed.

At first, the migrants - most of them not wearing life jackets - try to put the fire out before realising it is a hopeless task.

One by one, they then abandon the boat by jumping into the freezing sea.

The group, which included nine women, were attempting to cross from Africa to Spain when an explosion in a near-empty fuel tank caused the blaze

All of the migrants were rescued after the accident. It is thought that one of them has since been arrested on suspicion of people smuggling

They are left floating in the water with fire still raging around them. The boat was completely destroyed.

It is believed the fire was caused by an explosion in a near-empty fuel tank.

The dramatic incident happened off the coast of the Mediterranean island of Alborán between the Spanish mainland and north Africa.

It was spotted by a Portuguese aircraft patrolling the borders who called in Maritime Rescue.

Life boats were thrown into the water for the immigrants to climb into whilst one of the 34 was plucked to safety by the emergency helicopter.

'We feared for our lives,' said one of them.

More than 1,000 migrants have died trying to cross the Mediterranean so far in 2017, the vast majority of those by drowning (pictured, the migrants are rescued by the Spanish coastguard)

A spokesman for Spain's maritime rescue said. 'There was panic, tension and nerves but luckily it all worked out well in the end.'

All 34 were treated by the Red Cross on their arrival at the port of Motril in Granada before being taken on to hospital. They were then put in a make-shift camp before they are processed and sent back home.

It is understood one man has been arrested in connection with illegal trafficking.

UN figures released in April showed the death toll of migrants crossing the Mediterranean has already passed 1,000, with around 150 thought to be children.

Many drowned after over-filled boats capsized, while some were crushed to death, suffocated or starved while adrift at sea.

====== 2724 ========

FRANCE 'ENLISTS IRAQI SOLDIERS TO HUNT FRENCH FANATICS'

France is enlisting Iraqi soldiers to hunt down and kill French jihadists fighting for ISIS before they return home and carry out terror attacks, it has been claimed.

Special forces are reportedly supplying ground forces with names and photos of up to 30 French citizens who have fled to Iraq.

High-ranking French ISIS militants have been selected as targets amid fears they will return home to carry out atrocities, it is claimed.

It comes as a shipment of a so-called 'jihadi drug' increasingly used by ISIS fanatics was intercepted in Paris.

France is enlisting Iraqi soldiers to hunt down and kill French jihadists fighting for ISIS before they return home and carry out terror attacks, it has been claimed. File picture shows a masked Iraqi counter terrorism operative

Illegal shipments (pictured) of the so-called 'Jihadi drug' Captagon worth a total of almost £1.5m have been intercepted in France for the first time

According to an investigation by the Wall Street Journal, French special forces have been using Iraqi soldiers to hunt down the 'high-value' targets for a number of months.

Ground units have been given photographs, alibis and location coordinates taken from surveillance drones and radio intercepts, according to the newspaper, which says its information comes from Iraqi officers as well as current and former French officials.

France's Defence Ministry has not immediately responded to requests for a comment, the Independent reports.

France has been hammered by a wave of deadly terror attacks carried out by ISIS fanatics over the last three years.

In November 2015, a team of extremists slaughtered 130 in Paris when they targeted bars, restaurants, the Stade de France and the Bataclan music festival.

The following summer, a 19 tonne cargo truck was driven into crowds celebrating Bastille Day on the Promenade des Anglais in Nice, killing 86.

Last year, it was estimated that some 1,700 French citizens had fled the country to join ISIS in Iraq or Syria. Hundreds of those are believed to have been killed.

Meanwhile, illegal shipments of the so-called 'Jihadi drug' Captagon worth a total of almost £1.5m have been intercepted in France for the first time.

The euphoria-generating drug is increasingly used by ISIS terrorists as they set off on their murderous missions

It comes as the euphoria-generating drug is increasingly used by ISIS terrorists as they set off on their murderous missions.

Details of the customs haul at Paris Charles de Gaulle airport were today made public for the first time.

Some 350,000 tablets of the amphetamine-based Captagon were first found at France's busiest airport on January 4.

Then, on February 22, another 300,000 were found - making a total of 135kgs of Captagon with a street value of £1.4million.

In both cases, the drugs were hidden within industrial steel moldings destined for Saudi Arabia, via the Czech Republic, and Turkey.

Details of the customs haul at Paris Charles de Gaulle airport were today made public for the first time

The shipment originated in Lebanon, said a customs official, adding: 'This is the first time that this drug has been seized in France.'

There have been similar seizures in other European countries this year, including Holland, where the country's first known fake Captagon laboratory was found in April.

Hundreds of thousands of the pillswere discovered, along with three guns, in the premises in the town ofBrunssum, and there were two arrests.

Captagon, which was invented to treat sleep disorders, keeps users awake for long periods of time, and can make them feel hugely energetic and happy.

ISIS terrorists have often spoken about taking the addictive hallucinogenic pills - hence the 'Jihadi drug' tag.

It has become particularly associated with the war in Syria, where thousands of fighters take the drug before entering battlefields.

While Captagon is a brand name for the fenethylline drug, there are also plenty of fake versions stamped with the word 'Captagon' to increase their street value.

The biggest legal consumer of Captagon is Saudi Arabia, where there is also a highly lucrative cocaine market.

The seizure in France comes as the country remains under a State of Emergency following a series of ISIS attacks across Europe.

====== 2725 ========

ISIS TEENAGERS 'SHOOTING PEOPLE FOR NOT KNOWING KORAN'

Teenage ISIS fighters are said to be shooting people dead for failing to quote the Koran in a besieged Philippines city.

As 50,000 people fled the city of Marawi in the south of the country, some reported the terror they had left behind.

Terrified residents reported young jihadis taking orders from commanders in their early 20s to force people to recite verses of the Islamic scripture, but when they failed, they would be shot dead to a chorus of laughter.

Philippine authorities on Tuesday warned Islamist militants occupying parts of a southern city to surrender or die, as attack helicopters pounded the gunmen's strongholds where up to 2,000 residents are still feared trapped.

The militants had killed at least 19 civilians, while 20 security forces and 65 gunmen had died, according to the military

A government soldier points to graffiti on some metal shutters which reads, 'Welcome ISIS,' with a crown painted over it

Confiscated ISIS paraphernalia and heavy duty weapons being guarded by a Philippine marine

A Philippine Marine guards communication equipment, high-powered firearms, including a 50-caliber machinegun, ammunitions, uniforms, and black ISIS-style flags Tuesday, May 30, 2017 in Marawi city southern Philippines

Philippine Marine Major Rowan Rimas holds one of several high-powered firearms, which were recovered by Government forces in the fighting against Muslim militants

Communications devices, rifles, grenade launchers, assault rifles and ammunition belonging to ISIS laid out on a table having been confiscated

A woman calls out to her relatives after identifying bodies dumped off a cliff along the highway leading to Marawi on the southern island of Mindanao on May 28, 2017

More than 100 people have been confirmed killed in the conflict, which began last week when gunmen waving black flags of the Islamic State (IS) group rampaged through the mostly Muslim-populated city of Marawi.

Tens of thousands managed to flee and one woman told The Telegraph her decision to leave was sealed when she witnessed teenage jihadis laughing at innocent people being shot.

President Rodrigo Duterte declared martial law across the entire southern region of Mindanao, home to roughly 20 million people, in response to the crisis as he warned that local militant groups were uniting behind IS and becoming a major security threat.

But the militants, initially estimated by the nation's defence chief to number just 100, have withstood eight days of intense air assaults and street-to-street combat, prompting the government's threats on Tuesday.

ISIS plan to burn a city General Eduardo Ano, the military chief, said extremists had plotted to set Marawi ablaze entirely to project ISIS' influence. The extremists wanted to kill Christians in nearby Iligan city on Ramadan, the Muslim holy month of fasting, to mimic the violence seen by the world in Syria and Iraq, Ano said. Southeast Asian fighters fleeing the Middle East 'could look to Mindanao to provide temporary refuge as they work their way home,' said a report late last year by the Jakarta-based Institute for Policy Analysis of Conflict, predicting a high risk of regional violence. Marawi is regarded as the heartland of the Islamic faith on Mindanao island.

'We call on the remaining terrorists to surrender while there is an opportunity,' military spokesman Brigadier-General Restituto Padilla said in a statement.

'For the terrorists, not surrendering will mean their sure death.'

Padilla also said the surrender call warning was aimed at limiting the loss of more lives and property.

Up to 2,000 residents were trapped in areas held by the militants, according to the local government, and the International Committee of the Red Cross had voiced alarm they would be caught in the bombing raids or crossfire.

The militants also took a priest and up to 14 other people hostage at the start of the crisis, and their fate remains unknown.

The militants released a video in which they threatened to kill the hostages, according to a report by the SITE Intelligence Group on Monday that could not be verified.

And clashes on Tuesday appeared to be as intense as previous days as military helicopters fired rockets repeatedly on that part of the city and black smoke rose from the buildings that were apparently hit.

The gunmen were being backed by foreign fighters, including those from Malaysia, Indonesia and Singapore, authorities said.

Government troops head to the frontline as fighting with Muslim militants in Marawi city enters its second week on Tuesday, May 30, 2017, in southern Philippines

A Filipino villager (left), who was trapped inside the Maute stronghold, is assisted by a government troop after she escaped in Marawi City, Mindanao Island, southern Philippines

Philippine forces pressed their offensive to drive out militants linked to the Islamic State group after days of fighting left corpses in the streets and hundreds of civilians begging for rescue from a besieged southern city of Marawi

A Philippine Marine fires his weapon towards the stronghold of Maute group in Marawi city

A Philippine Marine runs for cover near the stronghold of Maute group in Marawi City, southern Philippines

A soldier points his gun over a wall as troops walk through the streets in a bid to remove ISIS

Government troops take positions as fighting with Muslim militants in Marawi city enters its second week

Government troops line the streets of Marawi in the south of the Philippines amid ISIS tension

Government troops cross a bridge after securing a village outside Marawi city on Tuesday

The militants had killed at least 19 civilians, while 20 security forces and 65 gunmen had died, according to the military.

The death toll looked likely to climb, with soldiers reporting the smell of corpses in a public market still being held by the militants.

Martin Thalmann, deputy head of the ICRC's Philippine delegation who is in Marawi, also said on Monday his staff had received reports from people trapped inside the militants' areas that residents had died from stray bullets and sickness.

President Rodrigo Duterte has declared martial law in the Philippines

The violence began when dozens of gunmen went on a rampage in response to an attempt by security forces to arrest Isnilon Hapilon, a veteran Filipino militant regarded as the local leader of ISIS.

Hapilon, a senior member of the Abu Sayyaf kidnap-for-ransom gang, is on the US government's list of most-wanted terrorists.

He was being protected in Marawi by the local Maute group, which has pledged allegiance to ISIS.

Hapilon, the Maute and other militants had been planning a major attack on Marawi, one of the few Islamic cities in the mainly Catholic Philippines with a population of 200,000 people, armed forces chief General Eduardo Ano said.

He said they were planning to launch the assault to coincide with the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, which began on the weekend, but the raid on Hapilon triggered them to attack earlier, according to Ano.

Muslim separatist rebellion in the southern Philippines has claimed more than 120,000 lives since the 1970s.

The main Muslim rebel groups have signed accords with the government aimed at forging a final peace, giving up their separatist ambitions in return for autonomy.

The Maute, the Abu Sayyaf and other hardline groups are not interested in negotiating and have in recent years looked to IS to help them.

The Marawi violence was intended to highlight their credentials to IS, security analysts have said.

Duterte said Saturday he was prepared to enforce martial law for as long as was necessary to end the terrorist threat.

Filipino troops inspect graffiti outside a parade of shops which reads, 'I love ISIS' with the date under it as well as 'ISIS fighters' written on the ground

Up to 2,000 residents were trapped in areas held by the militants, according to the local government, and the International Committee of the Red Cross had voiced alarm they would be caught in the bombing raids or crossfire

Philippine Marines aim their weapons towards the stronghold of Maute group in Marawi

The Islamic fighters are said to be well-armed and resilient and experts have warned that with ISIS weakened in Syria and Iraq, battered by years of American-led attacks, Mindanao could become a focal point for regional fighters.

The fighters' support network in Marawi remains unclear, though the power of one militant group - the Mautes - has grown in recent years.

Led by members of the city's Maute clan, the group has become increasingly active across Lanao del Sur province, where Marawi is located, and has been instrumental in the fighting this past week.

====== 2726 ========

KIM JONG-NAM ASSASSINATION SUSPECTS IN COURT

Two women accused of fatally poisoning Kim Jong-un's half-brother at Kuala Lumpur airport have appeared in court wearing bullet-proof vests.

Siti Aisyah, from Indonesia, and Doan Thi Huong, from Vietnam, were protected by armed police as they appeared for a hearing in the Malaysian capital on Tuesday.

Meanwhile, a counsellor from the Indonesian embassy said Aisyah wrote to her parents from jail, asking them to 'pray for me that the case will be over soon' but adding: 'Don't think about me too much.'

Aisyah and Huong are accused of smearing a deadly amount of VX nerve agent on Kim Jong-nam's face on February 13. They say they were duped into thinking they were playing a prank for a hidden-camera show.

Scroll down for video

Siti Aisyah, from Indonesia, appeared in court Tuesday accused of poisoning Kim Jong-nam, the half-brother of North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un

Co-accused Doan Thi Huong was also in court in Kuala Lumur for a brief hearing. The women wore bullet-proof vests and were guarded by armed police

Yusron Ambary, counsellor at the Indonesian Embassy, read a letter that Aisyah wrote to reporters outside the courtroom.

She said: 'I am in good health. Just pray. Don't think about me too much. Keep healthy and pray at night. I have a lot of people helping me.

The pair are accused of smearing deadly VX nerve agent on Jong-nam's face. They say they thought they were taking part in a hidden-camera show

'The embassy officials always come to see me, my lawyers also. Don't worry.

'Pray for me so that the case will be over soon and I can go back home. Send my love to my son Rio.'

Armed escorts accompanied the women, who smiled at their embassy representatives as they were brought to the dock.

The case was then officially transferred to the High Court, because the lower court does not have the authority to try murder cases.

Prosecutor Iskandar Ahmad said the date for their first appearance in the High Court would usually be within a month.

The suspects would then enter pleas and the trial would have to start within 90 days, Iskandar said.

Police have said four North Korean suspects fled Malaysia the day of the attack. Defense lawyers fear the women will be used as scapegoats in their absence.

Aisyah (left) wrote to her family from jail telling them 'pray for me that the case will be over soon' but also asking 'don't think about me too much' (right, Huong enters the court)

There was a heavy police presence around the trial, with armed guards standing watch outside the courtroom during the women's brief appearance

Although Malaysia never directly accused North Korea of carrying out the attack, speculation is rampant that Pyongyang orchestrated a hit on a long-exiled member of its ruling elite.

Although Kim, who was estranged from his family, was not an obvious political threat, he may have been seen as a potential rival in the country's dynastic dictatorship.

North Korea has denounced such speculation.

CCTV appears to show (circled in red) a man purported to be Kim Jong Nam being accosted by a woman in a white shirt at Kuala Lumpur International Airport in Malaysia on February 13. It emerged that he had been poisoned with a lethal nerve agent

====== 2727 ========

NORTH KOREA BOASTS MISSILE LANDED JUST 7M FROM ITS TARGET

North Korea has claimed its latest test missile landed just seven metres from its target in Japanese waters amid some bizarre threats and warnings by Kim Jong-un.

The ballistic missile launched on Monday travelled 280 miles before landing in the Sea of Japan, which the state called a success.

As a result, South Korea conducted a join drill with a US supersonic B-1B Lancer bomber, prompting the North's dictator to claim the allied countries were practising dropping nuclear bombs.

Kim Jong-un said the reclusive state would develop more powerful weapons to defend North Korea against the United States, and state media quoted him as saying: 'He expressed the conviction that it would make a greater leap forward in this spirit to send a bigger 'gift package to the Yankees' in retaliation for American military provocation'.

Scroll down for video

The ballistic missile which was launched by North Korea on Monday was supposedly a success

This release from Korean Central News Agency shows the new weapons system being fired

The North Korean missile is launched which eventually landed just seven metres from its target 280 miles away, the state has claimed

President Trump tweeted about North Korea Monday, a day after from his first overseas trip

The missile launched on Monday was equipped with an advanced automated pre-launch sequence compared with previous versions of the 'Hwasong' rockets, North Korea's name for its Scud-class missiles, KCNA said.

That indicated the North had launched a modified Scud-class missile, as South Korea's military has said.

The North's test launch of a short-range ballistic missile landed in the sea off its east coast and was the latest in a fast-paced series of missile tests defying international pressure and threats of more sanctions.

South Korea said it had conducted a joint drill with a US supersonic B-1B Lancer bomber on Monday.

Donald Trump has been accused of practicing dropping nuclear bombs

North Korea's state media earlier accused the United States of staging a drill to practise dropping nuclear bombs on the Korean peninsula.

The US Navy said its aircraft carrier strike group, led by the USS Carl Vinson, also planned a drill with another US nuclear carrier, the USS Ronald Reagan, in waters near the Korean peninsula.

A US Navy spokesman in South Korea did not give specific timing for the strike group's planned drill.

North Korea calls such drills a preparation for war.

Monday's launch followed two successful tests of medium-to-long-range missiles in as many weeks by the North, which has been conducting such tests at an unprecedented pace in an effort to develop an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) capable of hitting the mainland United States.

Such launches, and two nuclear tests since January 2016, have been conducted in defiance of US pressure, UN resolutions and the threat of more sanctions.

They also pose one of the greatest security challenges for US President Donald Trump, who portrayed the latest missile test as an affront to China.

'North Korea has shown great disrespect for their neighbor, China, by shooting off yet another ballistic missile ... but China is trying hard!' Trump said on Twitter.

South Korea conducts joint drill with US supersonic B-1B Lancer bomber (file picture) after North Korea's latest ballistic missile test

North Korean leader Kim Jong Un supervised the test of a new anti-aircraft weapon system on Monday

Japan has also urged China to play a bigger role in restraining North Korea's nuclear and missile programs.

Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's top national security adviser, Shotaro Yachi, met China's top diplomat, State Councillor Yang Jiechi, for five hours of talks near Tokyo on Monday after the North's latest test.

Yachi told Yang that North Korea's actions had reached a new level of provocation.

'Japan and China need to work together to strongly urge North Korea to avoid further provocative actions and obey things like United Nations resolutions,' Yachi was quoted as telling Yang in a statement by Japan's foreign ministry.

A statement from China's foreign ministry after the meeting made no mention of North Korea.

North Korea has claimed major advances with its rapid series of launches, claims that outside experts and officials believe may be at least partially true but are difficult to verify independently.

A South Korean military official said the North fired one missile on Monday, clarifying an earlier assessment that there may have been more than one launch.

The test was aimed at verifying a new type of precision guidance system and the reliability of a new mobile launch vehicle under different operational conditions, KCNA said.

However, South Korea's military and experts questioned the claim because the North had technical constraints, such as a lack of satellites, to operate a terminal-stage missile guidance system properly.

'Whenever news of our valuable victory is broadcast recently, the Yankees would be very much worried about it and the gangsters of the south Korean puppet army would be dispirited more and more,' KCNA cited leader Kim as saying.

====== 2728 ========

MYSTERY AS 2 NORTH KOREANS FOUND DEAD IN SAME MOSCOW HOTEL

Two North Koreans have been found dead in separate rooms in the same Moscow hotel amid reports they both suffered 'acute heart failure'.

The men had complained of severe chest pains and shortness of breath before they died on Saturday at a hotel in the west of the Russian capital.

A police probe led by the country's equivalent of the FBI has been launched as it emerged that two more North Koreans staying in the same building are in hospital.

Two North Koreans have been found dead in separate rooms in the same Moscow hotel amid reports they both suffered 'acute heart failure'. An ambulance is seen driving near the scene

The men had complained of severe chest pains and shortness of breath before they died on Saturday at a hotel (pictured) in the west of the Russian capital

The first man to die was named as Chkhe Men Sen, 37. When paramedics arrived at Gorodskoy Hotel in Yermakova Roscha Street in central Moscow, he was already dead. The inside of one of the hotel's rooms is pictured

Five other non-Russian men are believed to be ill but their nationality has not been given.

The first to die was a 37-year-old with a name translated as Chkhe Men Sen. When paramedics arrived at Gorodskoy Hotel in Yermakova Roscha Street in central Moscow, he was already dead.

Soon afterwards a 22-year-old with a name translated as Khon Gim Chkol died as ambulance doctors sought to resuscitate him. The men were in separate rooms.

Two other North Koreans aged 34 and 41 had a 'fever of unknown origin' - and were taken to a Moscow infectious disease hospital. Their condition is not known.

Initial reports in Russia mentioned a viral infection, but later reports said the two North Koreans had died from 'acute heart failure'.

Five other residents of the dormitory were allowed to remain there on condition they reported immediately any changes in their condition.

North Korean officials have since 'removed' an unknown number of their fellow citizens from the hotel, it has been claimed.

Two other North Koreans aged 34 and 41 had a 'fever of unknown origin' - and were taken from the hotel (pictured) to a Moscow infectious disease hospital. Their condition is not known

Russian health watchdog Rospotrebnadzor as well as police and the Investigative Committee - seen as an equivalent of the FBI - are investigating the cause of the sudden illness

The deaths were overnight between Friday and Saturday, according to Russian reports.

Russian health watchdog Rospotrebnadzor as well as police and the Investigative Committee - seen as an equivalent of the FBI - are investigating the cause of the sudden illness.

The hotel offers 'dormitory accommodation' and rooms for low income immigrant workers in the Russian capital, where many work on building sites.

Pictures posted by immigrant workers from Tajikistan show conditions at the hotel, which is located close to the downtown skyscraper Moscow City district, where there are many building sites.

Rustam, who said he was the 'new manager' of the hotel, told MailOnline: 'No comment on the number of people who died.

'There are no illnesses in our dormitory, and I will not be speaking about earlier reports. As for how many citizens of North Korea live here, the answer is none. They have all left.

'All North Koreans were taken from the dormitory by their chiefs, there are none of them left.

'When and why? How many of them stayed here? Where did they go? I don't know. Talk to their chiefs.'

There has been no comment from the North Korean embassy.

Two North Koreans have been found dead in separate rooms in the same Moscow hotel amid reports they both suffered 'acute heart failure' (file picture)

It comes just months after the half-brother of North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un was murdered at Kuala Lumpur airport in Malaysia.

Assassins targeted Kim Jong-nam using a deadly nerve agent.

While Malaysia never directly accused North Korea of carrying out the attack, speculation is rampant that Pyongyang orchestrated a hit on a long-exiled member of its ruling elite.

Although Kim, who was estranged from his family, was not an obvious political threat, he may have been seen as a potential rival in the country's dynastic dictatorship.

North Korea has denounced such speculation and has never acknowledged the victim was a member of its ruling family.

This morning, an Indonesian and a Vietnamese woman accused of carrying out the killing appeared in a Malaysian court Tuesday, wearing bullet-proof vests and under heavy security.

It comes just months after Kim Jong-nam (pictured), the half-brother of North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un, was murdered at Kuala Lumpur airport in Malaysia

Both women, aged in their twenties, could face the death penalty, though they have denied murdering Kim Jong-Nam, saying they were duped into believing they were taking part in a reality TV show.

Seoul accuses North Korea of being behind the February killing, a charge Pyongyang denies.

Indonesian Siti Aisyah, 25, and Vietnamese Doan Thi Huong, 28, appeared for Tuesday's pre-trial hearing, during which their defence lawyers slammed the prosecution for failing to furnish them with relevant documents.

'The concept of a fair trial demands that all material documents should be supplied to the defence at the earliest opportunity,' Gooi Soon Seng, chief lawyer for Siti Aisyah said.

Deputy public prosecutor Muhammad Iskandar Ahmad assured the defence they will be given the documents before the trial.

The High Court is expected within a month to fix a date when the accused will enter a plea. Prosecutors and defence lawyers will then have 60 more days to prepare for the case, after which the trial dates can be determined.

The Magistrate Court's judge also approved a prosecution request that the case be moved to the High Court for the trial.

Malaysian police accuse the women of wiping the banned nerve agent VX on Kim's face as he was about to board a flight from Kuala Lumpur to Macau, where he was living in exile.

Police are still trying to trace four North Koreans suspected of having taken part in the murder plot, who are believed to have returned to Pyongyang immediately after the killing.

The murder sparked a diplomatic row between Malaysia and North Korea.

====== 2729 ========

LITTLE MERMAID STATUE IS DOUSED IN RED PAINT IN DENMARK

A Little Mermaid statue has been coated in red paint by animal rights activists protesting brutal whale hunts in Denmark.

The 94-year-old monument, a tribute to Danish storyteller Hans Christian Andersen, was found covered in paint on Tuesday morning.

Vandals had then written 'Denmark defend the whales of the Faroe Islands' on a footpath nearby.

A 94-year-old Little Mermaid statue in Copenhagen, a tribute to writer Hans Christian Andersen, has been covered in red paint by animal rights protesters

The activists wrote 'Denmark defend the whales of the Faroe Islands' on the pavement nearby (Danmark is the Danish spelling for the country)

Police say they have opened an investigation into the latest act of vandalism to target the mermaid. She has been painted once before, knocked off her rock, and decapitated

Every year around 800 pilot whales are herded into coves on the Faroe Islands before being stabbed to death during a hunt known as grindadrap - or 'the grind'.

Traditionally a bonfire was lit when a pod of whales was spotted near the islands in order to alert fishermen to ready their boats.

Today word spreads on social media before the vessels head out to drive the mammals into the shore.

Hunters armed with knives mounted on long poles then gather in a cove, where they kill the animals by severing their spinal chords and arteries.

The practice dates back at least 300 years. Locals say the whales are not under threat and the killings violate no laws.

Workers were quick to remove the paint, which appeared overnight on Monday. While the Faroe Islands are self-governing, they are still part of the Kingdom of Denmark

The mermaid statue was created by sculptor Edvard Eriksen and has sat at the entrance to Copenhagen harbour since 1913

Islanders say the killings, usually carried out with a knife mounted on a long pole, breach no laws because the pilot whales are not endangered

The Faroe Islands comprises 17 inhabited islands located around 260 miles north of John O'Groats, Scotland.

In the 1940s the population voted to succeed from Denmark, but after the government failed to agree a deal the proposal was dropped in favour of laws allowing greater home rule.

Today the islands are largely self-governing, though still technically part of the Kingdom of Denmark.

Pilot whales are highly sociable and intelligent creatures, and researchers believe they are capable of grief and may even possess their own culture.

The Faroese hunts rely on the whales' loyalty to work, as the mammals will attempt to defend each-other even while being hacked to death.

====== 2730 ========

STUDENT FOUND 'RAPED AND STRANGLED' IN SOUTH AFRICA

A 21-year-old student in South Africa was raped, stabbed and strangled to death after being abducted in a violent carjacking, police say.

Hannah Cornelius was killed in Stellenbosch, South Africa, after she and her male friend, Cheslin Marsh, who survived the attack, were carjacked by four men on Friday night.

Police chased down two of the suspects who are believed to have taken part in the incident the following day. The men are now facing a series of charges, including rape and murder.

Hannah Cornelius (pictured) was raped, stabbed and strangled to death in Stellenbosch, South Africa, after she and her friend, Cheslin Marsh were carjacked by four men on Friday night, police say. Cornelius and Marsh were chatting in a blue Volkswagen Citi Golf when they were approached by four men during the hijacking

Two suspects were arrested on Saturday following a high speed chase in the hijacked Golf (pictured right), which had been given to Cornelius by her 91-year-old grandmother

Cornelius and Marsh were chatting in a blue Volkswagen Citi Golf, which had been given to Cornelius by her 91-year-old grandmother, when they were approached by four men.

Marsh was thrown into the boot of the vehicle while Cornelius was forced into the back seat, police said.

Cornelius was forced into the back seat of her car during the incident, police said

The pair's belongings were stolen before the university students were taken to an undisclosed location and beaten with bricks.

Marsh told police that he only survived by throwing himself over a wall to escape his captors.

A witness who found Marsh told News24 that he was 'barefoot and covered in blood, completely disorientated and didn't know where he was'.

Marsh suffered head injuries and a broken arm in the attack and is recovering in the hospital.

Meanwhile, Cornelius's body was found at 8.30am on Saturday on a road about 10km (six miles) outside Stellenbosch.

Police say she had been stabbed several times before being strangled. Her captors are also accused of raping her.

Two suspects were arrested on Saturday following a high-speed chase in the hijacked Golf.

The men were seen on CCTV leaping over a ditch to evade authorities before eventually being caught.

The men are seen on CCTV leaping over a ditch to evade authorities before eventually being caught. A third male suspect was later arrested

Cheslin Marsh told police that he only survived by throwing himself over a wall to escape his captors. A witness who found Marsh said that Marsh was 'barefoot and covered in blood, completely disorientated and didn't know where he was'

Two more male suspects were later arrested.

The two men seen on CCTV have been identified as Vernon Witbooi, 32, and Geraldo Parsons, 26.

All four men face charges of murder, robbery with aggravating circumstances, motor vehicle theft, rape and abduction, and more charges could later be added, officials told New24.

Witbooi and Parsons appeared in court on Monday, while the third man is expected to appear in court on Tuesday and the fourth on Wednesday.

"I know that last night [we] arrested a 26 year-old-man from Cloetesville‚ which is now the fourth arrest that has been made. He will appear in court tomorrow‚" police spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk told Times Live.

Cornelius and Marsh were students at the nearby University of Stellenbosch, according to local media reports.

Rector Professor Wim de Villiers told The South African that the university community was left shocked after the incident.

He said: 'Our campus community is shocked by this senseless death and our hearts go out to the family and friends of the student who lost her life, as well as the student who was injured.'

The pair's belongings were stolen before they were taken to an undisclosed location and beaten with bricks. Cornelius's body was found at 8.30am on Saturday. Police say she had been stabbed several times before being strangled

Cornelius's family released a statement following news of her death.

'It is with great shock and sadness that we learnt of the tragic death of our beloved Hannah Cornelius,' the statement from her uncle, Andries Cornelius, said. 'The family does not have all the facts surrounding her death as yet.

'They have been advised to await the full report from the relevant authorities so as not to prejudice the investigation.

'Hannah was studying a degree in humanities at the University of Stellenbosch. At the time of her death, she was 21 years old.

'The amount of support the family has been receiving is testimony to what an amazing, loving and beautiful person our Hannah was. The family has requested that their privacy be respected in this very difficult time.'

Her 18-year-old brother, who has severe autism, has not been able to comprehend his sister's death, Andreis Cornelius said.

"I assume he will never know. You can tell him what happened but he will never stop asking when she's coming back," he said.

A funeral service for Cornelius, who was a second-year humanities student, is being held at Fish Hoek NG Church at 11am on Friday.

Cornelius is said to have been an 'exceptional pianist' and excelled in high school.

====== 2731 ========

JOOST VAN DER WESTHUIZEN'S WIFES HELD UP AT GUNPOINT

The terrified wife of the late rugby star Joost van der Westhuizen believes he saved her life from beyond the grave after she was held up at gunpoint.

Singer Amor Vittone, 45, had stopped at traffic lights in Diepsloot on the outskirts of Johannesburg, South Africa when an armed thug smashed her windscreen with a revolver and held her up.

The mother-of-two - who lost her Springbok superstar husband to Motor Neurone disease in February - screamed as she was showered in glass.

Her attacker struck near a township as the celebrity drove her sponsored white Mercedes CLA 200.

Amor Vittone (right), the wife of tragic rugby legend Joost van der Westhuizen (left) believes he saved her life from beyond the grave after she was held up at gunpoint

Singer Amor Vittone, 45, had stopped at traffic lights in Diepsloot on the outskirts of Johannesburg, South Africa when an armed thug smashed the windscreen of her Mercedes (pictured) with a revolver and held her up

The mother-of-two - who lost her Springbok superstar husband (pictured) to Motor Neurone disease in February - screamed as she was showered in glass

She told TshishaLive that she feared being raped or murdered by the carjacker who struck as night fell and was trying to kidnap her and steal the car.

Vittone said: 'I am usually so careful but I had stopped at a traffic light at about 7pm when I just heard this loud bang and then I saw there was this gun.

'The next minute this big man with a jacket over his head appeared next to me in the smashed window. I went into defence mode and just started driving.

'All I could think about was my children and I just wanted to make sure I was safe so I could return to them and I drove off a fair distance away,' she said.

It was then that she realised that her bag had been stolen from the car.

The Afrikaans singer (left) said she felt that with her run of tragedy and bad luck she and her family are being 'tested by God' and said she does not know why

Vittone continued: 'This man had a gun and I could have been shot or dragged from the car. I could have been raped. I am just grateful I still have my life.

'My bag and purse can be replaced but my life cannot,' she added.

In tears she told how covered in broken glass she returned home to her kids only to find when she parked a single white feather lying on the seat by her.

She said: 'I was protected by an angel, I am convinced I was protected.'

The Afrikaans singer said she felt that with her run of tragedy and bad luck she and her family are being 'tested by God' and said she does not know why.

Vittone said: 'I told my family I don't understand why all of these things are happening to me. I broke my ankle in January then Joost died in February.

Joost van der Westhuizen was diagnosed with terminal Motor Neurone Disease in 2011 which put him in a wheelchair and saw him lose nearly all use of arms and legs

'My kids have been sick and I have been fighting court cases and it has all happened in the last few months and I don't know why I am being tested.'

Her mother Delse was on the phone to her daughter when the attempted car jacking occurred and said: 'I just told her "keep going, drive, drive, drive".

'They smashed the front windscreen and took her handbag which was on the passenger seat and they held a gun to her head and I heard her screaming.

'I just told her to put her foot down,' she said.

Her husband was one of the greatest rugby scrum halves to play the game and lifted the 1995 Rugby World Cup at home in South Africa.

The Springboks won the final in front of their President Nelson Mandela.

The rugby legend captained them in the 1999 World Cup and was capped 89 times and scored 38 tries and was inducted in the Rugby Hall of Fame in 2007.

He was diagnosed with terminal Motor Neurone Disease in 2011 which put him in a wheelchair and saw him lose nearly all use of arms and legs and speech.

He died aged 45 at home in February surrounded by family and friends. He and his wife had been estranged but had two children together, Jordan, 13, and Kylie, 11.

====== 2732 ========

MANUEL NORIEGA DEAD AGED 83

Manuel Noriega, the former military ruler of Panama who was ousted by a US invasion in 1989, has died aged 83, according to the country's President.

Juan Carlos Varela announced Noriega's death on Twitter late on Monday, and said his passing marked the closing of a chapter in Panama's history.

Noriega had suffered a brain haemorrhage following the first of two surgeries to remove a benign brain tumour in March.

The former dictator, who ruled the Central American nation from 1983 to 1989, was released from prison in January and transferred to house arrest in Panama for the first time in three decades ahead of his operation.

Scroll down for video

General Manuel Antonio Noriega speaks 1988 in Panama City during the presentation of colors to the San Miguel Arcangel de San Miguelito volunteer batallion. Panamanian authorities reported his death early on Tuesday morning

Recent sighting: Panamanian ex-dictator Manuel Antonio Noriega (in the red cap), arrives home after being placed under house arrest for three months in Panama City in January this year, just weeks before he was due to undergo surgery for a brain tumor

President Juan Carlos Varela tweeted early Tuesday morning: 'The death of Manuel A. Noriega Closes a chapter in our history; his daughters and their families deserve a burial in peace'

Noriega, who spied for the CIA before his drug trafficking and brutal regime sparked a US invasion in 1989, initially served a 17-year drug sentence in America and was later sent to face charges in France.

The final years of his life were spent in a Panamanian prison for murder of political opponents during his 1983-89 regime.

He accused Washington of a 'conspiracy' to keep him behind bars and tied his legal troubles to his refusal to cooperate with a US plan aimed at toppling Nicaragua's leftist Sandinista government in the 1980s.

In recent years Noriega suffered various ailments including high blood pressure and bronchitis.

In 2016, doctors detected the rapid growth of a benign brain tumor that had first been spotted four years earlier, and in the following January a court granted him house arrest to prepare for surgery on the tumor.

He is survived by his wife Felicidad and daughters Lorena, Thays and Sandra.

Following Noriega's ouster Panama underwent huge changes, taking over the Panama Canal from US control in 1999, vastly expanding the waterway and enjoying a boom in tourism and real estate.

Panamanian police officers enter the emergency section of the Santo Tomas Hospital in Panama City this morning

Mugshots years apart: Noriega, in a mugshot left in Miami in 1990 and right December 2011, taken at El Renacer penitentiary

Noriega arrives at Renacer prison, south east of Panama City, in December 2011; He was sent to France in 2010 and convicted in money laundering charges. The following year he was extradited to Panama where he was sentenced for disappearance of political opponents

Today the Central American nation has little in common with the bombed-out neighborhoods where Noriega hid during the 1989 invasion, before being famously smoked out of his refuge at the Vatican Embassy by incessant, loud rock music blared by U.S. troops.

Known mockingly as 'Pineapple Face' for his pockmarked complexion, Manuel Antonio Noriega was born poor in Panama City on February 11, 1934, and was raised by foster parents.

He joined Panama's Defense Forces in 1962 and steadily rose through the ranks, mainly through loyalty to his mentor, General Omar Torrijos, who became Panama's de facto leader after a 1968 coup.

FROM DICTATOR TO DETAINEE: NORIEGA'S TURBULENT PAST The late Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega, who rose to power while working for the CIA, ruled ruthlessly 1983-1989 and was ousted by a US military invasion. Noriega, 83, died late Monday in a Panama City hospital as he was recovering from surgery to remove a brain tumor. Here are some notable moments of Noriega's life: February 11, 1934: Noriega is born to a poor family in Panama City's Guachimango district. He goes on to graduate from a military academy in Peru and embarks on a military career. 1968: Participates in a coup that ousts president Arnulfo Arias, and backs popular strongman general Omar Torrijos. Around this time Noriega reportedly goes onto the CIA's payroll. Torrijos makes him chief of Panama's military intelligence. 1983: Noriega takes command of the National Guard and becomes Panama's de facto ruler, two years after Torrijos dies in a mysterious plane crash. December 20, 1989: US forces invade Panama to oust Noriega, accusing him of drug trafficking. Noriega takes refuge in the Vatican embassy for 10 days, then surrenders to the US soldiers, who take him to the United States. 1992: A US court sentences Noriega to 40 years prison for drug trafficking. The sentence is later cut to 17 years. April 2010: Noriega is extradited to France, where he faces charges of laundering $3 million from the Medellin drug cartel through French banks. July 2010: A French court sentences Noriega to seven years in prison. December 11, 2011: France extradites Noriega to Panama, where he was sentenced in absentia to three 20-year prison sentences for the murder of opponent Hugo Spadafora and military commander Moises Giroldi, and for killing rebellious soldiers trying to overthrow him in what became known as the Albrook massacre. January 28, 2017: A Panama court agrees to temporarily release Noriega to house arrest to prepare for surgery to remove a benign brain tumor. The ex-dictator's family and lawyers say he has suffered strokes, respiratory problems, prostate cancer and depression. March 7, 2017: Doctors remove the brain tumor, but complications lead to cerebral bleeding. Following a second operation doctors put him in an induced coma. May 29, 2017: Noriega dies at the San Tomas public hospital.

As Torrijos' intelligence chief, Noriega monitored political opponents and developed close ties with U.S. intelligence agencies guarding against possible threats to the canal.

Two years after Torrijos died in a mysterious plane crash in 1981, Noriega became the head of the armed forces and Panama's de facto ruler.

Noriega ruled with an iron fist, ordering the deaths of those who opposed him and maintaining a murky, close and conflictive relationship with the United States.

At the apex of his power he wielded great influence outside the country as well thanks to longstanding relationships with spy agencies around the world, said R.M. Koster, an American novelist and biographer of Noriega who has lived in Panama for decades.

US soldiers secure a position outside the Vatican embassy in Panama City when Noriega was seeking asylum during Operation Just Cause, on December 24, 1989. He only surrendered when the Americans played loud rock music for days

Merry christmas! The US invaded in an attempt to remove Noriega and bring him to the US for trial on drug charges; Noriega was extradited to the US and spent nearly 20 years in prison in Florida after being convicted on drug trafficking charges

US troops patrol the streets and clear debris in the area of the Panamanian Defense Force headquarters in Panama City during Operation Just Cause, on December 26, 1989

Noriega was considered a valued CIA asset and was paid millions of dollars for assistance to the U.S. throughout Latin America, including acting as a liaison to Cuban leader Fidel Castro.

Noriega also helped the US seize drugs at sea and track money laundering in Panama's banks, and reported on guerrilla and terrorist activities.

Washington ultimately soured on him, especially after a top political opponent was killed in 1985 and Noriega appeared to join forces with Latin American drug traffickers.

Foes in the Panamanian military attempted several coups but failed, and their leaders were summarily executed by firing squad.

With the knowledge of U.S. officials, Noriega had formed 'the hemisphere's first narcokleptocracy,' a U.S. Senate subcommittee report said, calling him, 'the best example in recent U.S. foreign policy of how a foreign leader is able to manipulate the United States to the detriment of our own interests.'

The beginning of his downfall came in 1988 when federal grand juries in the Florida cities of Miami and Tampa indicted Noriega on drug-trafficking charges.

Initially he reacted with defiance, thumbing his nose at US economic sanctions designed to drive him from power. He famously waved a machete at a rally while vowing not to leave, and in 1989 he nullified elections that observers say were handily won by the opposition.

Noriega (pictured in 1989) helped the US seize drugs at sea and track money laundering in Panama's banks, and reported on guerrilla and terrorist activities

Washington ultimately soured on Noriega (pictured in 1989), especially after a top political opponent was killed in 1985 and Noriega appeared to join forces with Latin American drug traffickers

US President George H.W. Bush ordered the invasion in December 1989, and Noriega was captured and taken to Miami.

During the operation, 23 US military personnel died and 320 were wounded, and the Pentagon estimated 200 Panamanian civilians and 314 soldiers were killed.

Prosecutors accused Noriega of helping Colombia's Medellin cocaine cartel ship 'tons and tons of a deadly white powder' to the United States.

The defense cited court documents describing him as the 'CIA's man in Panama' and argued that the indictment 'smells all the way from here to Washington.'

Jurors convicted Noriega in April 1992 of eight of 10 charges. Under the judge's instructions, they were told not to consider the political side of the case - including whether the U.S. had the right to invade Panama and bring Noriega to trial in the first place.

During his years at a minimum-security federal prison outside Miami, Noriega got special POW treatment, allowed to wear his Panamanian military uniform and insignia when in court.

He lived in a bungalow apart from other inmates and had his own television and exercise equipment. He was said to be a TV news junkie and a voracious reader about politics and current events.

After completing his 17-year sentence in 2007, Noriega was extradited to France and received a seven-year sentence for money laundering.

Despite amassing great wealth, Noriega had worked hard to cultivate an image of a man of the people

FILE - In this July 5, 1986 file photo, Miss USA, Christy Fichtner, left, and Miss Panama, Gilda Garcia Lopez, salute while flanking General Manuel Antonio Noriega in Panama City. Pictured right is Miss Colombia, Maria Monica Urbina. A source close to the family of former Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega said Monday, May 29, 2017, that he has died at age 83. (AP Photo/Jim Ellis, File)

George H Bush (second from right) and Manuel Noriega (right) are pictured during a meeting in Panama in 1983

But Panama wanted Noriega to return to face in-absentia convictions and two prison terms of 20 years for embezzlement, corruption and murder of opponents, including military commander Moises Giroldi, who led a failed rebellion on October 3, 1989, and Hugo Spadafora, whose decapitated body was found in a mailbag on the border with Costa Rica in 1985.

In mid-2011, France approved his extradition to Panama.

Despite amassing great wealth, Noriega had worked hard to cultivate an image of a man of the people.

He lived in a modest, two-story home in an upper-middle-class neighborhood in Panama City that stood in stark contrast with the opulent mansions customary among Latin American dictators.

'He would only say `hello' very respectfully,' said German Sanchez, who lived next door for 16 years. 'You may think what you like of Noriega, but we can't say he was anything but respectful toward his neighbors.'

'The humble, the poor, the blacks, they are the utmost authority,' Noriega said in one speech.

While some resentment lingers over the U.S. invasion, Noriega has so few supporters in modern-day Panama that attempts to auction off his old home attracted no bidders and the government decided to demolish decaying building down.

Late in life, the ex-dictator essentially had zero influence over his country from behind bars.

Manuel Noriega watches as U.S. Drug Enforcement Agents place chains around his waist aboard a C-130 transport plane in 1990

Manuel Noriega lived in a modest, two-story home in an upper-middle-class neighborhood in Panama City that stood in stark contrast with the opulent mansions customary among Latin American dictators. He is pictured with his daughter

Noriega (right) is pictured ahead of going on trial in Paris, France in 2010 accused of using French bank accounts to launder bribes from a Colombian cocaine cartel in the late 1980s

'He is not a figure with political possibilities,' University of Panama sociologist Raul Leis said in 2008.

'Even though there's a small sector that yearns for the Noriega era, it is not a representative figure in the country.'

In 2014, Noriega reportedly sued the makers of the computer game Call Of Duty after they named a treacherous character Manuel Noriega and also referred to him as Old Pineapple Face.

Noriega broke a long silence in June 2015 when he made a statement from prison on Panamanian television in which he asked forgiveness of those harmed by his regime.

'I feel like as Christians we all have to forgive,' he said, reading from a handwritten statement. 'The Panamanian people have already overcome this period of dictatorship.'

But for the most part Noriega stayed mum about elite military and civilian associates who thrived on the corruption that he helped instill - and which still plagues the Central American nation of some 3.9 million people, a favored transshipment point for drugs and a haven for money laundering.

'He kept his mouth shut and died for the sins of others,' Koster, the biographer, said in a 2014 interview. 'Nobody else ever went to prison.'

Meanwhile, families of more than 100 who were killed or disappeared during his rule are still seeking justice.

====== 2733 ========

RUSSIAN EXPLORERS FIND £13.5M IN OLD SOVIET MONEY

Russian explorers have found a billion roubles in Soviet-era money in a swamp - but the haul is completely worthless because it's not legal tender.

The group from Saint Petersburg went on a search for the cash after hearing rumors of large piles of money in old missile silos after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.

The eventually found a haul in a swamp in an abandoned mine in Russia's Vladimir region, more than 100 miles from Moscow.

The group from Saint Petersburg went on a search for the cash after hearing rumors of large piles of money in old missile silos after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991

The eventually found a haul in a swamp in an abandoned mine in Russia's Vladimir region, more than 100 miles from Moscow

There had been a flood at the mine, which essentially created a swamp full of bills of the Soviet-era currency

'We were told that there is an abandoned missile silos and that there could be hidden treasure – billions of Soviet rubles,' Anton Alekseev, a member of the group who hosts a YouTube channel, told Russia's Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper.

'We wanted to check whether this is so,' he said of their journey, documented on YouTube by In the Now.

Upon coming across the mine, Alekseev and his explorer friends found thousands of bank notes bearing the face of Vladimir Lenin, according to the BBC.

The site contains approximately one billion rubles, which is worth about £13.5million ($17.5million) in current exchange rates.

But the funds are worth nothing because Soviet rubles are no longer legal tender in the Russian Federation.

Upon coming across the mine, Alekseev and his explorer friends found thousands of bank notes bearing the face of Vladimir Lenin

The site contains approximately one billion rubles, which is worth about £13.5million ($17.5million) in current exchange rates

But the funds are worth nothing because Soviet rubles are no longer legal tender in the Russian Federation

Team member Olga Bogdanova said that the mass amount of money found in the mine was difficult to see.

'There's delight and some sadness, because you realise that this is a bygone era which will never return, that all this money would have been more than enough for anybody,' she said.

In the Soviet era, a salary of just 100 rubles would have been acceptable for a person.

The Soviet-era currency - the Soviet ruble - first circulated in 1961 and was replaced by Russian rubles the early 1990s.

The Russian ruble made its first appearance in December 1991 in parallel to the Soviet ruble, which was in circulation until 1993.

====== 2734 ========

GERMANY DETAINS SYRIAN ALLEGEDLY PLANNING BERLIN ATTACK

German authorities detained a 17-year-old Syrian outside Berlin on Tuesday on suspicion that he was planning a suicide attack in the German capital, officials said.

Police in the state of Brandenburg said the teenager was detained in the county of Uckermark, northeast of Berlin, after they learned he had sent a WhatsApp message to his mother saying farewell and that 'he had joined the jihad', or holy war.

'Evidence of the planning of a concrete act has not yet been identified during the police investigation,' police said in a statement.

German police detained a 17-year-old Syrian outside Berlin on Tuesday on suspicion that he was planning a suicide attack in the German capital The ministry had no immediate details on how close he was to carrying out an attack on Berlin (pictured above)

The WhatsApp message talking about jihad to the suspect's family was sent within the last week and Brandenburg authorities were told of it late Monday night by two other German states, Brandenburg police spokesman Torsten Herbst told The Associated Press.

He said police were investigating but so far 'evidence of the planning of a concrete act has not yet been identified'.

The ministry had no immediate details on how close he was to carrying out an attack or other information on the suspect.

The state Interior Ministry's office identified the suspect as Syrian, but Herbst said investigators were checking to see whether he falsely registered as a Syrian but was actually from a North African country.

In December, a Tunisian citizen attacked a Berlin Christmas market, killing 12 and injuring dozens (pictured above)

Officials said the arrest was the result of coordinated intelligence from several German states.

The teenager, whose name wasn't released, came to Germany in 2015 as an unaccompanied minor and registered as an asylum-seeker.

He has been living since 2016 in a home for minor refugees in Uckermark.

His asylum home was raided on Tuesday. Details of his planned outrage were not revealed by police but media reports said that his scheme was 'advanced'.

Herbst said the teenager was still being interrogated.

German security officials have repeatedly warned that the country is in the crosshairs of international terrorist groups.

Germany saw a number of violent attacks by Islamic extremists last year, including the deadly truck attack on a Berlin Christmas market that left 12 victims dead and dozens of others injured.

The attack, carried out by a young Tunisian man who had been denied asylum in Germany, was later claimed by the Islamic State group.

====== 2735 ========

BELGIUM PRIME MINISTER LOSES HEARING DUE TO RACE PISTOL

The Belgian Prime Minister is receiving emergency treatment for hearing loss after Princess Astrid accidentally damaged his ears with a race starting pistol.

Charles Michel, 41, was helping Astrid start Belgium's annual 20km road race when she fired the pistol close to his left ear.

In pictures of the event Mr Michel can be seen wincing as the gun is fired, though he stayed on afterward to applaud the racers.

Charles Michel, 41, the Belgian Prime Minister, was left needed emergency treatment after Princess Astrid, 54 (right), fired a race starting pistol too close to his head on Sunday

It was not until later that Mr Michel's spokesman realised his hearing had been damaged and sent him for treatment.

Belgian media reports Mr Michel has cancelled several appointments while the problem is fixed.

Astrid, 54, went on to run the race alongside 40,000 other competitors.

Mr Michel's spokesman Barend Leyts said: 'Mr Michel must undergo a number of treatments within 48 hours after the incident.'

Audiologist Annick Gillis of the University Hospital of Antwerp explained that such special care is understandable.

Gillis said: 'With acute trauma or a very loud impulse noise, like in the case of a gunshot, instant damage can be contracted at the height of the hair cells within the inner ear.'

Treatments could include giving Mr Michel extra oxygen, Gillis added.

Mr Michel was forced to cancel a speech to parliament and will also skip several meetings as he undergoes emergency treatment to fix his damaged hearing

He said: 'It causes more oxygen to be administered in the bloodstream which results in more oxygen going to the hair cells to help them recuperate.'

Patients are often placed inside pressurised cabins while the oxygen is given to them, because it aids recovery time.

Gillis said: 'The tank is comparable to a submarine which goes 50 feet below the surface.'

Princess Astrid's spokesman Pierre Emmanuel De Bauw said that while the Belgian royal did not contract any hearing damage, though she was startled by the loud bang of the pistol.

Yesterday evening the princess contacted Mr Michel to ask him how he was doing.

====== 2736 ========

WWII GRENADES FROM GERMAN MARKET BLOW UP IN SUMMER HEAT

This was the scene after Second World War grenades bought from a flea market and stored in a private garage started exploding in hot weather.

Emergency services in Hennef, east of Bonn, were called amid reports of explosions and arrived to find the building in flames.

As grenades and other munitions inside the garage continued to detonate, police cleared a wide area and evacuated homes nearby.

Police were called to a home in Hennef, Germany, after Second World War grenades bought from a flea market and stored in a private garage started exploding in hot weather

Pictures show the charred remains of the building and police investigators at the scene.

More than 70 people had to leave their homes as explosives experts made the area safe.

Machine gun and rifle ammunition was believed to have been among the items stored in the garage.

Pictures show a burnt out crate and charred remains of the building as police investigators examine the scene

The 51-year-old homeowner later told officers he had bought the crate of munitions at a flea market and that they had started to explode in the recent hot weather.

But he is now under investigation for weapons law violations, according to local reports.

Nobody was injured in the explosions.

====== 2737 ========

WOMAN IS SENTENCED TO DIE 'FOR BEING RAPED' IN PAKISTAN

A 19-year-old woman has been sentenced to death in Pakistan after she accused her cousin of raping her at gunpoint.

The woman said she was asleep at her family home in Rajanpur, in the country's central Punjab province, when the attack happened.

She reported the crime to the local panchayat, a tribal court that operates outside the official justice system in remote areas of the country, but was told she had intentionally seduced her attacker.

A 19-year-old woman who accused her cousin of raping her at gunpoint in Pakistan was sentenced to death by stoning after a tribal council ruled she had seduced him (file image)

The panchayat, which included the alleged rapist's father, then found her guilty of adultery and declared her a Kari, or adulteress, the Express Tribune reports.

As a result the teen was sentenced to death by stoning or to be sold off, according to the Hindustan Times and Tribune.

The council decided no action needed to be taken against the alleged rapist.

The following day the woman and her father went to the police, who have now launched an official investigation.

An arrest warrant has now been issued for the members of the tribal council, and the woman taken to a refuge away from the village.

Women declared Kari are often executed by their own family in so-called honour killings to restore their reputation.

Another warrant has also been issued for the alleged rapist, local media reports.

====== 2738 ========

PUTIN DENIES MEDDLING IN THE FRENCH ELECTION

Russian President Vladimir Putin has rejected allegations that Moscow meddled in France's presidential election.

Speaking after talks with new French President Emmanuel Macron at the Palace of Versailles, he also defended a March meeting with Macron's presidential rival, far-right leader Marine Le Pen.

It came at the same press conference where President Macron's extraordinarily attacked two Russian media outlets, Russia Today and Sputnik, which he claims acted as 'propaganda' organs during his election campaign.

Scroll down for video

Speaking after a meeting with new French President Emmanuel Macron (right), Russian President Vladimir Putin (left) rejected claims Moscow meddled in the country's election

Putin (pictured with Macron) also defended a March meeting with Macron's presidential rival, far-right leader Marine Le Pen.

Earlier today, Putin said he and Macron agreed to discuss pursuing closer cooperation on anti-terror efforts

After the meeting and press conference, Macron drove through the garden of the Versailles Palace in an electric golf car with Putin in the passenger seat

'I've always had exemplary relations with foreign journalists, but they have to be journalists,' said Mr Macron.

'Russia Today and Sputnik were organs of influence and propaganda which spread infamous counter-truths about me.'

Macron cited it as the reason why he banned their reporters from his campaign headquarters during the race for the French presidency, which he went on to win, defeating Le Pen.

Mr Putin remained stony-faced and did not reply when Mr Macron made the accusations, but the Russian president did reject allegations that Moscow wanted far-Right candidate Marine Le Pen to beat Mr Macron.

Commenting on a visit by Ms Le Pen, the National Front leader, to Moscow just before polling day, Mr Putin said: 'It was not her first visit.

'It did not mean we tried to influence the election result, moreover it would be almost impossible to do so anyway. We are not children, we are serious men!'

He went on to say it would be strange if Russia rebuffed overtures from European politicians who want to strengthen relations.

Despite denying claims of meddling, Putin described Macron's rival Le Pen as a politician who wants to develop friendly ties with Russia

Putin (right) says it would be strange if Russia rebuffed overtures from European politicians who want to strengthen relations

The Russian leader, 64, says the meeting with Le Pen did not represent an attempt to sway the race and that Russia

While Putin has backed the Syrian regime against ISIS and rebel groups France has pushed for Bashar al-Assad's removal from office

Macron said he wants a democratic transition in Syria but not at the cost of the war-torn country becoming a failed state

Macron said he had 'extremely frank, direct' talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday, pushing for cooperation on Syria and against ISIS

The Russian leader, 64, says the meeting with Le Pen did not represent an attempt to sway the race and that Russia had been well-aware of opinion polls predicting Macron's victory.

Earlier today, Putin said he and Macron agreed to discuss pursuing closer cooperation on anti-terror efforts, having discussed the situation in Syria.

The Russian president, an ally of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, underlined the importance of securing the Syrian state, adding that it's essential for combatting terrorism.

While Putin has backed the Syrian regime against ISIS and rebel groups - going as far as to send troops and weaponry to defeat its enemies - France has pushed for Assad's removal from office.

But Macron said he believes he can work with Russia on Syria and that he wants to forge a reinforced partnership against ISIS.

Macron said he wants a democratic transition in Syria, but not at the cost of the war-torn country becoming a failed state.

Macron said he believes he can work with Russia on Syria and that he wants to forge a reinforced partnership against ISIS

Speaking to journalists at the Versailles Palace, Macron went on to say the use of chemical weapons in Syria was a 'red line' for France

The two leaders held a meeting (pictured) before the opening of an exhibition marking 300 years of diplomatic ties between the two countries, in Versailles, near Paris

Macron said he also spoke to Putin about LGBT rights in Chechnya and about NGOs in Russia

But he went on to say the use of chemical weapons in Syria was a 'red line' for France.

Macron said that any use of such weapons in Syria would lead to 'reprisals' from France, without specifying exactly what form they would take.

He said he also spoke to Putin about LGBT rights in Chechnya and about NGOs in Russia.

Macron vowed during the G7 summit in Italy over the weekend that'It is essential to talk to Russia because there are a number of international issues that will not be resolved without a tough dialogue with them.'

The two leaders talks today lasted almost threehours, with Macron saying that 'Franco-Russian friendship' was at their heart.

Mr Macron added: 'No major problem in the world can be solved without Russia.'

====== 2739 ========

MUSLIMS IN DUBAI BREAK THEIR RAMADAN FAST

The breaking of the fast in Dubai this Ramadan meant that one driver wasn't going anywhere in a hurry.

Devout worshipers throughout the city came together to enjoy Iftar - the meal eaten by Muslims after sunset during the holy month of fasting.

But one motorist had to wait until the grand feast had finished before moving his car after parking smack in the middle of the celebration.

The driver of this car could have had quite a wait on his hands before heading home as worshipers in Dubai came together to enjoy the Iftar meal, which is eaten by Muslims after sunset during the holy month of Ramadan

During Ramadan the Muslim community abstain from food, drink, smoking and sex between sunrise and sunset, before breaking their fast with the Iftar meal - the meal before sunrise is called Sufur

During Ramadan the Muslim community abstain from food, drink, smoking and sex between sunrise and sunset, before breaking their fast with the Iftar meal.

The festival falls in the ninth month of the Islamic calendar and fasting is intended to bring followers closer to Allah.

During Ramadan, Muslims are only permitted to eat food before sunrise and sunset.

As one of the five pillars of Islam, fasting is a mandatory element belonging to the religion.

The other pillars are Shahada (Faith), Salat (Prayer), Zakāt (Charity) and Hajj (the pilgrimage to Mecca).

Every Muslim must adhere to the five principles in order to live a good life, according to Islam.

A volunteer prepares food for Iftar in the UAE before worshipers arrived to break their fast during Ramadan - the holy month brings followers of Islam closer to Allah by allowing them to concentrate on their devotion through prayer, expressing gratitude, seeking forgiveness and helping those in need

Iftar is enjoyed together in the Muslim faith and many believe that feeding another person Iftar during the holy month of Ramadan is an excellent form of charity

In some Muslim countries failing to fast is punishable by law.

Everyone above the age of puberty is expected to take part in fasting during Ramadan.

However, certain groups can be exempt to the practice including children, pregnant women, elderly people and sick people.

====== 2740 ========

MOSCOW STORM LEADS 12 DEAD AND MORE THAN 100 INJURED

At least 12 people were killed and more than 100 injured as a freak storm ripped through Moscow - with a 20 year old female student 'sliced to death' by a falling tree.

The force of the winds was so strong that it pulled off part of the roof of the Kremlin Senate, an 18th century building housing Vladimir Putin's top officials.

'Due to hurricane winds in the northeast, south-west and east of Moscow, trees fell on pedestrians,' said the city's investigative committee, equivalent of the FBI.

People 'died on the spot' with winds recorded at 70mph - and 18,000 have been left without electricity.

Scroll down for video

A man walks near the wreckage of a tree which collapsed on top of a car amid the aftermath of the storm which is confirmed to have killed at least 12 people

Winds reached speeds of up to 70mph as it toppled over trees, bus shelters and other infrastructure in the Russian capital

A 20 year old girl on roller skates is known to have died at a park in northern Moscow when a poplar tree crashed onto her

Muscovite Daria Antonova, 20, was killed on Parkobaya Street when a huge tree crashed onto her in the storm.

Eye witnesses said the tree was completely uprooted by wind.

A man who battled to rescue Daria said: 'I heard loud crack and then a woman's scream.

'I rushed towards the site and saw one of the girls crying in horror - her friend was sliced to death by tree trunk.

'Me and five other men tried to lift it but even as we were doing it it was clear the poor girl was gone.

'The second girl was in the state of deepest shock.

'Her shoulders were badly bruised, but she didn't feel it because of shock.

'We helped her into an ambulance.'

Another 20 year old girl on roller skates was killed at a park in northern Moscow when a poplar tree crashed onto her.

Harrowing pictures of the storm show dark clouds hanging over Moscow

The storm, which caused 18,000 people to be left without power in the Russian capital, has been described as the city's 'deadliest storm in more than 100 years'

A witness said 'I was driving out of my yard when I saw a woman lying under the tree - she had been severely wounded and it was clear from how she looked that she was dead.

A ten year boy was badly wounded at the same site.

A man at Varshavskoye highway said: 'It was an Apocalypse. People were literally flying around so strong was the wind.'

A roof over a delivery ward in Moscow region's Shakhovsky district maternity was ripped off.

Three rooms with mothers and babies were flooded.

The city's investigative committee, Moscow's equivalent of the US's FBI, said 'due to hurricane winds in the northeast, south-west and east of Moscow, trees fell on pedestrians'

An 65-year-old man is known to have died when a bus stop collapsed on him at Kirovogradskaya Street

Roads were blocked by hundreds of uprooted trees, delaying the emergency services from reaching the wounded

Emergency services evacuated women and babies.

Nikolay Terentyev, 65, was killed by a bus stop which collapsed on him at Kirovogradskaya Street .

Eye witnesses tried to lift him free but he had died on the spot.

Nina Andreyeva, 62, was also killed by a tree.

A witness said: 'I was driving out of my yard when I saw a woman lying under the tree.

'She had been severely wounded and it was clear from how she looked that she was dead. I called the ambulance, they came to confirm that the lady died from injures.'

Roads were blocked by hundreds of uprooted trees, delaying the emergency services reaching the wounded.

Moscow mayor Sergei Sobyanin said 'over 40 people had to seek medical help' after the storm, expressing condolences for those who died.

A relief worker helps to remove debris in the aftermath of the storm which injured more than 100 people

Later it was reported there were more than 100 injuries.

'Several hundred trees were felled,' he wrote on his official Twitter. 'We are taking necessary measures to deal with the consequences.'

A father and his 16 years old daughter were hit by a huge tree branch as they visited the graves of relatives.

Both survived but were badly injured.

====== 2741 ========

ROBOT PRIEST GRANTS AUTO-BLESSINGS GERMANY MARTIN LUTHER

A robot priest that beams lights from its hands is giving 'auto-blessings' in the same German city where Martin Luther launched the Protestant Reformation.

Five hundred years after Luther published the 95 Theses in the town of Wittenberg, in the state of Saxony-Anhalt, an evangelical church unveiled an automatic blessing robot for the special celebrations.

The robot on show is called 'BlessU-2' and was developed by the Evangelical Church in Hesse and Nassau.

It consists of a metal box with a touch screen, two arms, a head with electronic eyes and a digital mouth.

A robot priest that beams lights from its hands is giving 'auto-blessings' in the same German city where Martin Luther launched the Protestant Reformation

After the robot wishes users a 'warm welcome', it asks if they want to be blessed by a male or female voice.

It then asks the believer: 'What blessing do you want?' - which results in the robot making a mechanical sound as it raises its arms to the heavens and starts to smile.

Lights then start to flash in the robot's arms as it says that 'God bless and protect you' as it recites a biblical verse.

After the blessing, the user has the possibility to print the dictum.

Church spokesman Sebastian von Gehren said: 'It is an experiment that is supposed to inspire discussion.'

Von Gehren explained that they consciously decided against a typical human appearance. He said that the reactions vary wildly, with 'one half thinks it's great' while 'the other cannot imagine a blessing from a machine.'

Remarkably, von Gehren said that especially people who have little in common with the church are attracted to the robot, with many people 'now coming every morning and evening.'

A robot priest that beams lights from its hands is giving 'auto-blessings' in the same German city where Martin Luther launched the Protestant Reformation

Church spokesman Sebastian von Gehren said the robot was 'an experiment that is supposed to inspire discussion'

Brunhilde Hoeltz-Mettang, a visitor to the church celebrations in Wittenberg, said the robot was 'interesting and courageous' even though it lacked the human touch.

She said: 'We have to think of new ways, beyond our core communities.'

Yet 500 years after Martin Luther nailed his 95 Theses to a church door in Wittenberg, the robot priest will not replace humans any time soon.

Von Gehren said: 'The machine should not replace the blessing of a pastor. In the future there will not be a blessing robot in every church.'

====== 2742 ========

GAY UNTIL LABOR DAY: STRETCHING FEMALE SEXUALITY IN THE HAMPTONS

For anyone who writes about social codes, Manhattan is a rich environment, teeming with information. Sometimes, all you have to do is listen. By the time I stood at a very loud party in a lavishly decorated uptown venue a few months ago, I had heard a lot. I had written about the private lives and cultural practices of very wealthy New Yorkers and now, for every person who ran the other way upon seeing me, another one wanted to tell me things. Often, perhaps because I had supposedly lifted a veil on a secretive, private world, people talked to me about the ultimate secretive, private topic: sex.

I often heard about affairs. While the names and players sometimes surprised me, the facts did not: what anthropologists call “extra pair copulations” are common. In her meta-analysis of 133 cultures worldwide, anthropologist Meredith Small found not a single one without infidelity.

I heard about high-earning men having affairs “because they could,” and about wives with money of their own having affairs “because they weren’t afraid to.” This was no surprise. The anthropological data show that she who brings home the bacon (or mongongo nuts or small animals caught in nets) has increased clout and autonomy. Indeed, sociologists tell us it’s no coincidence that, as women have entered the U.S. workforce over the last decades—34 percent of women in the U.S. worked in 1950, versus nearly 58 percent by 2012—they have also begun to close the “infidelity gap,” cheating at close to the same rates as men, according to Bloomberg News.

The affairs people told me about made sense, seen through the prisms of anthropology and sociology. And then, something surprised me.

At the party that night, the music blared. Some women and I were chatting about sex. A 30-something fashion plate and mother leaned toward me and whispered, “What about the [inaudible]?”

It sounded like she said, “pushy whistlers.”

Sorry?

“The pussy whisperers!” she repeated. “The trainers who have affairs with their clients during summer in the Hamptons!”

It sounded like a variation on the pool boy cliché: a hot working guy, the beautiful wife of a wealthy man who works in the city during the week, the kids at sleep-away camp…But I hadn’t heard the term—which implied a particular skill set, and a special knowledge about what women want—before. “Well,” I said, “if these men are attractive and attentive to their female clients…”

“The pussy whisperers,” she interrupted, “are women!”

***

“Saturday Night Lesbian,” “Bicurious” and “MARBLE—Married but Lesbian” are all vernacular terms that point to a popular awareness that female lust can be shape-shifting, flexible. Lots of people in my world knew the famous story of the gorgeous mommy who had left her successful husband for her charismatic female spin instructor. The couple was out and proud, spinning side by side. But “pussy whisperers”? The descriptor hinted at a practice that would seem off the map for the women I had written about, to say the least.

Or not.

Thanks to the inroads paved by LGBTQ activists and feminists in recent decades, as well as the work of mostly female sex researchers, there seems to be a new openness in discussing sex and gender not as we think it should be or want it to be, but as it is actually experienced. This may in part explain why what we might call “female flexuality” is having a zeitgeist-y moment. From “it” girl Cara Delevingne’s involvements with both women and men to Kristin Stewart’s recent declaration that me not defining [myself as gay or straight] right now…is what I’m all about”; from engaged-to-a-guy Piper’s not-so-straight affairs on Orange is the New Black and even Gloria Vanderbilt’s recent revelation, while promoting her new book, of a girl/girl dalliance at Miss Porter’s back in the day; to Skirt Club, a women-only roving party in London, Miami and Manhattan, where the female owner who is married to a man says most of those who come to “play” with other women are in relationships with men, too—“heteroflexible” women are entering the mainstream. Articles in women’s magazines (“A Closer Look at Women Who’ve Left Their Husbands for Other Women,” for instance) and headlines that alternately trumpet and vociferously deny that studies show women’s preferences are “mostly gay or bi,” give it all a news-y spin.

A former trainer whose mostly female clients lived uptown and in the Hamptons recounted that it was not unusual for her married female clients to come on to her.

Sex researchers have also been focused on female flexuality. Based on results of a 10-year longitudinal study of 79 women, University of Utah sex researcher Lisa Diamond coined the term “female sexual fluidity” to describe the malleability of female desire. Dr. Diamond discovered that circumstances—an accepting community, an open-minded female friend, an emotional connection—might contribute to a woman who has spent years or decades feeling and being heterosexual to have sex with a woman. And decide to keep doing so. Or not.

Other research has focused on female desire. Meredith Chivers, associate professor of psychology, at Queen’s University in Canada found that women may have more category-defying tendencies than men (straight women are more likely to be excited by lesbian porn than straight men are by gay male porn, for example), and be turned on by a wider array of images and fantasies.

Dr. Alicia Walker, visiting assistant professor of sociology at Missouri State University, conducted a pilot study of women who are married to men but seek out female partners online for in-person sexual encounters. These women refused titles like “gay” or “bisexual,” identifying themselves instead as motivated by what they described as their “strong” libidos and “freakiness” to search for clandestine sexual encounters with other women. Dr. Walker uses the term “undercover,” as one of her interview subjects did, to describe the desire for women that hums alongside and coexists with their heterosexuality. While we’re rethinking categories, as such behaviors might lead us to do, let’s put to rest the notion that it’s all “just a phase” for younger women who are “gay until graduation”; a recent Glamour survey of 1,015 women between 18 and 44 found 47 percent had been attracted to another woman, and nearly 1 in 3 reported a sexual experience with another woman.

In spite of overall social shifts and trends and statistics, it seemed odd that the hierarchy-and status-conscious married women with children I spent time with—women who live in what can certainly be described as a heteronormative culture—might go against tribal custom and get sexually involved with women—particularly those who might fall into the “help” category. But there were specific circumstances that suggested they might not be an exception to the sex research data. Like women in Hollywood, those I studied live in a body-display culture with unyielding standards. Women must be ultra-fit, beautiful and youthful. Period. Some took two exercise classes daily. And I knew from the way they gushed about their instructors, rushed to sign up for their classes, followed them on social media and confided in them as a previous generation had their hairdressers, that many established close bonds with these “body shamans.”

Whether it’s a supermodel, a Netflix series, a moniker like “pussy whisperer” to describe a relationship, or a study by a sex researcher, our culture is currently experimenting with the notion that the course of female sexuality cannot necessarily be predicted, defined, or confined. And that we might need new vocabulary—in addition to straight, bi and gay—to describe it.

“Yes, I know about the female [exercise] instructors who seduce women away from their husbands,” a beautiful blonde socialite told me with an “everybody knows that” wave of her hand. A man who socialized and worked with a group of wealthy, married Hamptonites told me about two women, each married and avowedly heterosexual, each having a passionate affair with a woman—one with a woman who was her exercise coach. A therapist told me about a married woman who brought the female trainer she had long fancied on a trip to train her—and they ended up in bed. Her client, said the therapist, “believed it ‘didn’t count as cheating.” A master of the universe, I was told, found out his wife was sleeping with her female physical therapist and forgave her, presuming she would end it. She refused; they divorced.

A former trainer whose mostly female clients lived uptown and in the Hamptons recounted that it was not unusual for her married female clients to come on to her. “They’d say, ‘I think about you all the time,’ ” she said over lunch at a Brooklyn restaurant, where her physique (tall and ripped) and classic beauty drew admiring stares. She recalled that, before she moved West and traded training for a 9-5 job, she sometimes used that erotic connection to motivate clients. Trainers want people to succeed and feel motivated, she explained, and “if being attracted to us helps, O.K.” She also conceded that in her trainer days she had mixed business with pleasure (she used an expression that was far saltier) and knew of other female trainers who slept with their married, assumed straight female clients, too.

“It’s sort of the new workplace affair, but with a different ‘workplace,’ and genders switched around,” observed a Manhattan workout aficionada who was aware of the whispers about pussy whisperers. She noted that she had heard the term “straight whisperer” to describe the phenomenon, as in, able to whisper a straight woman into bed.

“Isn’t it just that when you’re a woman who has it all, having a female lover is an experience you might allow yourself to have?” a woman who summers in Sagaponack mused, surprised that anyone would be surprised.

***

I’m not at all surprised to hear about assumed heterosexual women having affairs with their female trainers,” said Dr. Walker, who teaches a popular “sociology of sexuality” class at Missouri State University, by phone. “The more honest dialogue we have about women’s sexual practices, the more we find these types of experiences among women who don’t claim a label other than heterosexual.” While there are no hard and fast numbers or large-scale statistics on how many avowedly heterosexual women pursue liaisons with other women, they may be higher than those suggested by the Glamour study. That’s because, as psychologists, sex researchers and sociologists tell us, it is notoriously difficult to coax interview subjects to disclose the full extent of their stigmatized or taboo behaviors. This is especially the case with women, who face particular biases—slut shaming, sexism and double standards among them—when it comes to fully and frankly disclosing their sexuality. And still, many experts echo the observations of Yale lecturer of psychiatry Binnie Klein, who told O Magazine: “It’s clear that a change in sexual orientation is imaginable to more people than ever before, and there’s more opportunity—and acceptance—to cross over the line.”

Ms. Klein added that six of her married female patients had become involved with women over the last several years. Rachel Blakeman, a psychoanalyst in private practice on the Upper East Side, concurred. In her clinical experience, women may be more likely to cross the line in their minds than in reality. “Female sexual desire is more complex and fluid than male sexual desire,” she said. “Some women who identify as heterosexual and exclusively partner with men, have erotic desires that extend to women. The reasons each woman chooses to fulfill her sexual desires for another woman at a particular time or under certain circumstances, as opposed to resisting…or feeling it less powerfully at other times, is unique to each woman—but what these women all share is a sexual fluidity.” Perhaps this is why Joanne Fleisher, LCSW offers a “Workshop for Married Women Attracted to Women” on May 22 in Philadelphia, and Match.com created a category called “Women Who Leave John for Jane.”

The anthropological data suggest that female flexuality is not just a Western thing. In Lesotho, a small country surrounded by South Africa, women whose husbands are away for extended periods may take a motsoalle, or special female friend. And in Suriname, working-class Creole women who are called mati have relationships with both men and women, not infrequently living with their female lovers and children. Many !Kung adolescent girls in Namibia experiment with other girls sexually, with adults viewing it as “inevitable and normal,” according to anthropologist Melvin Konner of Emory University.

Whether it’s a supermodel, a Netflix series, a moniker like “pussy whisperer” to describe a relationship, or a study by a sex researcher, our culture is currently experimenting with the notion that the course of female sexuality cannot necessarily be predicted, defined, or confined. And that we might need new vocabulary—in addition to straight, bi and gay—to describe it. Dr. Diamond’s work suggests that in particular, we have yet to wrap our minds around how much female sexuality has to do with context.

Decades ago, social scientists had already coined a term for the tendency of women in places like women’s prisons and all-girls’ schools to have sex with one another (men have sex with men in prison, of course, but “heterosexual women are significantly more likely to have consensual sex with female partners in prison compared to heterosexual men in prison,” noted Dr. Dylan Selterman, a lecturer at the University of Maryland’s psychology department). They attributed such “situational lesbianism” that occurred when there were few or no men around to a psychosocial dynamic they rather unfortunately dubbed “the harem effect.” The exoticism of the term smacks of an anxious assertion: “It can’t happen here.” An alternative descriptor—such as “segresexuality”—may more accurately suggest that, wherever women spend a great deal of time with other women in the relative absence of men, female flexuality increases the likelihood that those who are assumedly heterosexual may become sexually involved with a woman nonetheless.

***

Which brings us back to the pussy whisperers. How, I wondered, could women who did not have their own money and income act on their flexuality? Wouldn’t their financial dependency, and their dependent offspring, along with their traditionally gender-scripted marriages and comparatively conservative culture, hold them hostage to some sort of heterosexual normativity?

Perhaps. But not necessarily. Because along with economics and autonomy, experts tell us, it turns out that opportunity also plays a significant role in whether someone has an affair. Women flooding the workforce in recent decades found not just earning power and independence, but increased exposure to potential sexual partners.

“Opportunity” looks a little different in the Hamptons, among a group of largely non-working women who are out East for the whole summer, often attending sex-segregated luncheons and fundraisers and trunk shows, socializing in weekday evenings with mostly other women, and working assiduously on their bodies in the presence and with the guidance of female trainers, some of them gay, while their husbands work in the city. These women have autonomy of a different sort, and opportunity aplenty.

“Contextual variables make it more or less likely for women to act on their female flexuality, and the Hamptons is just one place worldwide where a perfect storm of factors can aid its expression,” believes biological anthropologist Natalia Reagan. Her viral Huffington Post Science piece “Hooray for Gay Animals” addressed the spectrum of sexual behavior in a variety of animal species—including our own.

All this may be a summer cocktail potent enough to render some avowedly heterosexual women, as the data suggest is not uncommon, something else as well: “segresexuals” who are “gay until Labor Day.”

Wednesday Martin, Ph.D. is the author of the No. 1 New York Times best-seller Primates of Park Avenue, now available for pre-order in paperback. She has contributed to The New York Times and The Atlantic, and taught cultural studies at Yale and The New School for Social Research.

Some identifying details have been changed to protect the anonymity of sources.

====== 2743 ========

WACO BIKER SHOOTOUT: DID NINE BIKERS DIE OVER A PATCH?

Dallas (CNN) From the time he was big enough to climb onto the back of his dad's Harley, Jake Carrizal felt the pull of the open road.

The summer he was 9, he rode on the back of his dad's bike to Mount Rushmore and then on to Sturgis, the annual Super Bowl of biker rallies, in the Black Hills of South Dakota.

"He was on the back holding on tight. People would point and say 'Oh, look how cute!'" recalled his dad, Chris Carrizal.

Along the way, Jake got his first look at the biggest, baddest bikers in all of Texas, the Bandidos: "Just seeing them riding down the road," Jake said, "you knew: You don't mess with these guys."

Jake and his dad both became Bandidos. Chris Carrizal earned his patch in 2005, and Jake, 34 and a father of two, joined seven years later. He rose quickly to become vice president of the Dallas chapter, second in command to his uncle.

Chris and Jake Carrizal at the Sturgis motorcycle rally in 1990.

Jake was at a barbecue at his uncle's when he got his Bandidos patch -- a "fat Mexican," they call it: a round-bellied, grinning caricature with a handlebar mustache and sombrero, wielding a pistol in one hand and a machete in the other (bikers are not known for political correctness). Jake was so moved he cried that night as he stitched the patch onto his jacket under the glow of a flashlight in the backyard.

"There's a brotherhood, you know," he said, explaining why he chose the life of a Bandidos biker. "It's a good group of guys, and we like to do a lot of the same things -- ride motorcycles and have fun."

It's been a year since Jake and his dad last rode together as Bandidos. May 17, 2015. Destination: Waco.

They were supposed to attend a regular meeting of a statewide umbrella organization called the Confederation of Clubs. The location was Twin Peaks, a biker-friendly, Hooters-style restaurant where cold beer is served by women in skimpy cutoff shorts.

When the first Bandidos arrived from the Dallas chapter, they found about 60 members of a smaller biker club -- the Cossacks -- waiting. The Cossacks aren't confederation members, and as far as the Bandidos from Dallas were concerned, they hadn't been invited.

Accounts vary over what got the fists -- and the bullets -- flying on a Sunday afternoon that would mark the most violent day in Texas biker history. Police suspected something was up; they'd installed cameras and stationed about 20 cops around the parking lot. But they stood back, keeping a low profile.

The "fat Mexican" patch of the Bandidos, one of the largest motorcycle clubs.

Was the beef over what patches the Cossacks could wear, as police had theorized? Did somebody at Twin Peaks run over a Cossack prospect's foot, as some witnesses suggest? Was it over who owed dues to whom? Or was it just a dumb beef about parking spots?

Words were exchanged at first, then pushes, and then punches. Witnesses said somebody fired three shots. Other people pulled guns and all hell broke loose. It lasted less than two minutes and when it was over, nine bikers had been fatally shot and 18 were wounded, including Chris, who took a bullet in the shoulder.

Jake said he had been backing his midnight blue Harley into a parking space when the brawl blew up around him. Father and son lost each other in the confusion, and for a time each believed the other had been killed.

Nearly a year after the deadly melee, the Carrizals and half a dozen other bikers -- both Bandidos and Cossacks -- are speaking out. They agreed to appear on camera and talk for the first time about their clubs, their culture and the events in Waco. Bandidos leader Jeff Pike, known as "El Presidente," also broke his long silence. He said he likes things quiet and never had a reason to speak out before Waco.

JUST WATCHED Waco biker shootout caught on camera Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Waco biker shootout caught on camera 05:20

After 177 bikers were arrested, bail initially was set at $1 million each. Jake spent 23 days behind bars before his bail was lowered enough that he could post bond. He sold one of his bikes to come up with the required 10% in cash.

A local grand jury later indicted 154 bikers -- including the Carrizals -- on a single, generic count of engaging in organized criminal activity. A conviction carries a stiff penalty: from five years to life in prison. But nobody seems to be able to pin down the specific crimes alleged, or to even get a trial date. Local officials aren't talking.

The bikers say they're eager for the chance to defend themselves. They say the man who fired the first shots is dead and everyone else was acting in self-defense. Both Cossacks and Bandidos see themselves as crime victims.

But this wasn't just a matter for the local police. The feds had been building a case against the Bandidos unrelated to the Waco shootout and showed their hand in January, when an indictment was unsealed in San Antonio. It names three Bandidos leaders, including Pike, as masterminds of a racketeering conspiracy and methamphetamine distribution ring. The indictment alleges the club masks a criminal empire that rules through extortion, intimidation and murder. All three have pleaded not guilty.

The feds allege they found "a closed society" in which loyalty "to this organization and their fellow brothers is valued above all else." Bandidos, according to the indictment, "do not fear authority and have a complete disdain for the rules of society."

'People our parents warned us about'

Bandidos refer to nonbikers as "polite society" and the club motto says it all: "We are the people our parents warned us about."

JUST WATCHED CNN Special Report: Biker Brawl: Inside the Texas Shootout Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN Special Report: Biker Brawl: Inside the Texas Shootout 00:30

They are in the biker big leagues, one of four major motorcycle clubs. The other three are the Hells Angels, the Pagans and the Outlaws. Members of those clubs as well as some others are known as "outlaw bikers" or "one-percenters."

Make no mistake: To Bandidos, the label "outlaw biker" is a point of pride. To be a one-percenter means the rules for 99% of the riders on the road don't apply to you.

"To us it's a family thing, it's not a criminal organization," Chris Carrizal said. "We love each other and we love to ride and we're proud to wear that fat Mexican on our back. For people who don't understand, being in the Bandidos means you've reached the top, you're like the CEO."

To both father and son, being a one-percenter is a commitment.

"I'm a Bandido 24/7," Chris said. "I'm not a poser. I'm not a yuppie, a wannabe. I live the life of a professional motorcyclist. I am a one-percenter."

Until Waco, the Bandidos didn't take the Cossacks seriously. At best, they were "an aspirational club," in the words of Donald Charles Davis, a Vietnam vet, biker and former newspaper reporter who writes The Aging Rebel, a blog followed religiously by bikers. He's working on a book about the Waco shootout.

The Cossacks motto: "We take care of our own."

Owen Reeves is a leader of the Cossacks, a smaller Texas-based club.

"We're working guys, man, and that's the whole problem," said Owen Reeves, a national Cossacks leader. "We're working guys, and if you try to take something from a working guy, then you're gonna have hell doing it.

"You know, them guys, they wanna control everything and make you pay this, pay that, and we're not gonna do it," he said of the Bandidos. "We're grown men, and last time I checked, we live in America."

Both the Bandidos and the Cossacks were founded in Texas during the 1960s -- the Bandidos in 1966 in Houston and the Cossacks three years later in Tyler, in east Texas. There has never been any love lost between them.

At the time the two clubs started, disillusioned Vietnam veterans were returning from an unpopular war to an unwelcoming society. They no longer fit in at home and felt most comfortable in a structured hierarchy of men with the shared experiences of war, their brothers in arms. Motorcycle clubs offered that sense of camaraderie, Davis said.

The Cossacks might have been ambitious, he added, but before Waco the Bandidos viewed them as little more than a nuisance.

"They're in their own little world. I have no respect for them," said Chris Carrizal. Sprinkling his speech with F-bombs, he added that Cossacks "have no idea what it's like to be a one-percenter or what it is to be in a real club."

As for what happened at Waco, he said, "they showed their true colors that day."

Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene On May 17, 2015, a fight broke out between two rival biker clubs in Waco, Texas. CNN has obtained video and images of the chaos during and after the brawl. This surveillance footage shows a biker running inside the Twin Peaks restaurant where the deadly fight took place. Authorities have classified both the Bandidos and the Cossacks as gangs. Hide Caption 1 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Hide Caption 2 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene By the time the melee was over, nine people were dead and 177 people were arrested. Hide Caption 3 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene The body of a biker is seen in the parking lot. (His tattoos have been obscured in this photo.) The biker club members who began beating, stabbing and shooting each other in a Texas Twin Peaks restaurant knew the police were outside, and they just didn't care, Waco police Sgt. W. Patrick Swanton told CNN at the time. Hide Caption 4 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene A Bandidos vest and hat are left behind in a pool of blood. The Bandidos boast a membership of 2,000 to 2,500 across not just the United States, but also 13 other countries, the Department of Justice says. Hide Caption 5 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Law enforcement agents received information that a regular scheduled meeting of the United Coalition of Clubs was to be held at a Twin Peaks restaurant in Waco on May 17. Due to the known growing tension between the Bandidos and the Cossacks, the Waco Police Department coordinated a surveillance and intelligence-gathering operation for this meeting, according to documents from the Waco Police Department and the Texas Department of Public Safety. Hide Caption 6 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Another body lies next to a tipped-over bike. Police officers fired 12 rounds during the deadly shootout, according to the Waco Police Department, which said it had 16 uniformed officers in their vehicles at the time the suspects began shooting. Hide Caption 7 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene This violent encounter wasn't the first between the Cossacks and the Bandidos, according to a Waco PD investigator's sworn statement. Members of both motorcycle clubs had previous violent altercations throughout Texas in 2013 and 2015. Several of those involved were arrested at the Waco brawl. Hide Caption 8 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene According to a Waco PD investigator's sworn statement, Waco police witnessed the violence erupt that day "swiftly" and law enforcement officers on the scene were fired upon by "individuals involved in the violent altercation" until officers were able to control the scene. Hide Caption 9 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene According to witness statements given to Waco Police by a Twin Peaks patron: "Just as we had finished eating I heard 5, 6, or 7 shots from outside of the restaurant. Someone yelled hit the floor, there was constant shots being fired. It sounded like the gunfight at the OK Corral. " Hide Caption 10 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Weapons were found all over the scene, including this gun in the bathroom. Hide Caption 11 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene The Waco PD says about 480 weapons were found that day. Hide Caption 12 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Police also recovered an ax, bats, batons, brass knuckles, a chain, clubs, a hatchet, knives, a machete, pepper spray, a pipe, stun guns, tomahawks and weighted weapons. Hide Caption 13 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Police recovered many knives from the scene. Hide Caption 14 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Twelve long guns and 133 handguns were recovered. Hide Caption 15 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene A gun is seen in the passenger seat of a car. Hide Caption 16 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Waco PD said that 44 shell casings were recovered from the scene and that 12 of those casings came from the .223-caliber rifles of three SWAT officers, who were in adjacent parking lots.

Hide Caption 17 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene This is one of the many weapons recovered. Hide Caption 18 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene A gun is inside a motorcycle saddlebag, along with prescription medicine and a water bottle. Hide Caption 19 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Hide Caption 20 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Tensions between the Cossacks and Bandidos had been on the rise for a while. Hide Caption 21 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene According to witness statements given to police, a Twin Peaks employee said that prior to the fight that led to the shooting, the Cossacks were attempting to keep their conversation private. "Every time a Twin Peaks girl would go outside they (Cossacks) would get extremely quiet and when we would go back inside they would continue to talk." Hide Caption 22 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene The fight broke out at the Twin Peaks restaurant and spilled into the parking lot. The weapons being used quickly escalated from hands and feet to guns. Hide Caption 23 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Weapons are piled up by a barrier in the parking lot. According to one of the first Waco police officers on the scene, it appeared that nearly everybody in the crowd had a gun. Hide Caption 24 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Sixteen uniformed Waco Police Department officers, including members of their SWAT team, witnessed and responded to the melee from the parking lots surrounding Twin Peaks. Police say they responded within 30 to 45 seconds and were fired at by bikers. Hide Caption 25 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Jewelry lies on the asphalt in the Twin Peaks parking lot. The label is derived from a quote that may be apocryphal but is part of biker lore that dates to the 1960s: Someone supposedly said that 99% of bikers are law-abiding citizens, leaving the mayhem to the other 1%. Hide Caption 26 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Seven of the nine bikers who were killed at Twin Peaks were members of the Cossacks. The Cossacks claim around 200 members, mostly in small towns in Texas. According to law enforcement officials, they are one of the biggest outlaw biker clubs in Texas. Hide Caption 27 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene This is one of the Bandidos patches from the thousands of evidence photos taken from Twin Peaks. The Bandidos are the biggest motorcycle clubs in Texas, with around 400 members. Hide Caption 28 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene An officer from the Waco Police Department discovered blood smeared across the Twin Peaks bathroom floor. Hide Caption 29 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene One of the 151 guns found by investigators was in the grass outside Twin Peaks after the fight. Police recovered a staggering 480 weapons from Twin Peaks: 151 guns, numerous knives, brass knuckles, chains, clubs, batons, hammers, tomahawks and a machete. Hide Caption 30 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene A Cossacks jacket, along with knives and a gun, litter the grass outside Twin Peaks after the melee. There were 154 bikers indicted by a Waco grand jury, and they could face life in prison on charges of engaging in organized criminal activity. Hide Caption 31 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene A bloody bandana lies on the sidewalk outside of Twin Peaks. Both clubs, the Bandidos and the Cossacks, say they're done fighting. Hide Caption 32 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene A Waco police officer snapped this photo after he discovered blood spilling out onto the sink and floor in the Twin Peaks bathroom. Hide Caption 33 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene These are some of the bullets found on the scene by investigators. According to the Waco Police Department, 44 shell casings recovered from the Twin Peaks scene were fired by law enforcement weapons. Hide Caption 34 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene A duffel bag is filled with patches of the Confederation Of Clubs & Coalition of Independent Riders. COCs are biker networks that exist in nearly every U.S. state and meet every couple of months or so to discuss motorcycle issues and legislation. A 1 p.m. COC meeting was scheduled to take place at Twin Peaks on May 17. Hide Caption 35 of 36 Photos: Waco biker shootout: The crime scene Knives and weapons are thrown across the dirt and weeds in the Twin Peaks parking lot. Hide Caption 36 of 36

Most people learned about outlaw bikers through popular culture. The two best examples are "The Wild One," the 1953 movie starring Marlon Brando, and gonzo writer Hunter S. Thompson's 1966 account of the time he spent with the Oakland, California, chapter of the Hell's Angels.

More recently, Kurt Sutter's FX series, "Sons of Anarchy," romanticized the biker life, although Davis and other bikers say it took some poetic license.

Although motorcycle clubs now can be found around the world, there's something uniquely American about the one-percenters who live outside the restrictions imposed by "polite society." They live by their own rules, which as any biker will tell you, might make them outlaws, but doesn't mean they're criminals.

Davis compares them to the cowboys who won the West, sprinkling his anecdotes with classical literary and cultural references.

"The motorcycle outlaw world is the last manifestation of the American frontier," he said.

They are bad boys, and who doesn't like a colorful bad boy?

'Big dogs and little dogs'

Cops and federal agents might view outlaw bikers as criminals , said Davis, but he understands the draw the outlaw biker holds for others in 2016. He sees it as a response to the discontent and perceived unfairness that recently hung like a pall over American society. He compares the renewed interest in outlaw biker clubs to the rise of the tea party and Occupy Wall Street, movements that themselves now seem dated.

Davis hasn't just studied everything academics have to say about biker clubs. His education also comes from the streets. He used to belong to a club but won't say which one, except that today it would be considered a "one-percent" club.

How this story was reported Bikers who might never have considered talking to outsiders before Waco recently spoke with CNN. Some were in the thick of the violence, others were hundreds of miles away. Most face serious prison time. CNN also obtained voluminous documentation, including witness statements, and hours of video evidence from Waco police dash cams, as well as a cameras police set up in the restaurant parking lot. CNN also obtained and reviewed videos from the Twin Peaks surveillance cameras. That evidence, along with interviews with experts and bikers from both clubs, form the basis of the documentary, "Biker Brawl: Inside the Texas Shootout," which airs for the first time on Monday at 9 p.m. on CNN.

Besides ongoing conversations with bikers from around the world, he reads everything he can get his hands on, from court documents to doctoral dissertations.

"Bikers are predominantly libertarian," he said. They aren't much different from men who, in another era, "needed elbow room from society and so they ran off to Kentucky, to Texas, to California, to Alaska. ..."

It's a cultural note that resonates in the Lone Star State. Texans are famously fond of cowboys, and they can't resist an outlaw with a good mustache and some panache.

Terry Katz, a Baltimore-based state police investigator, has been following biker gangs since the 1980s. Katz is vice president of a 600-member group called the International Outlaw Motorcycle Gang Investigators Association

He said the Bandidos, being the dominant club, saw little choice but to stand up to a challenge from the Cossacks.

"These guys aren't going to put up with anybody disrespecting them," Katz said. As bikers see it, Waco shows "they were just taking care of business."

Davis agreed that Waco was all about respect. The club on top demanded it, and the ambitious challengers grew weary of bowing down.

"At the end of the day, the Bandidos are the big dogs," said Katz, "and you can't stay a big dog if you let a little dog intimidate you."

Regardless of what started the gunfight at Waco -- whether it was over a patch or a parking space -- it's "irrelevant to everybody else," Katz said. But respect matters to a biker. Respect for your club is worth dying for.

"These guys are not going to put up with anybody disrespecting them," Katz said. "If you put nitro and glycerin together, eventually you're going to have an explosion."

The "Texas bottom rocker" patch, which may have set off the feud.

Could the bad blood and resulting violence really have been over a patch, as police said?

In addition to wearing the "fat Mexican," the Bandidos and some of their support clubs -- smaller biker groups loyal to the dominant club -- also sport what's known as a "Texas bottom rocker." It's a curved patch sewn onto the lower back of a biker's vest that announces his territory. Bandidos also ask their support clubs to wear the round Bandidos "support cookie" patch.

Cossacks started wearing the large Texas bottom rocker panel on the back of their vests in 2013, according to the indictment. They didn't ask anyone for permission.

The Bandidos responded by letting everyone, even their smallest support clubs, wear the Texas rocker, diluting its prestige, Jake and other members said. Bandidos president Pike said the Cossacks even thanked them on social media.

But the dispute over the Texas rocker brought up another sticking point. The support clubs pay dues of $50 a month, but the Cossacks were refusing to pay for what one Cossack described to CNN as "the privilege of riding my motorcycle in Texas."

Reeves, the national Cossacks leader, acknowledged to police that "there's a lot of residual hatred" that "needs to be over." Cossacks were tired of being hassled over wearing the Texas rocker patch. That simple fact, he added, accounted for "80%" of their issues with the Bandidos.

"We're a motorcycle club. We want to be left alone. We just want to ride, and to ride in Texas," said another Cossack who spoke with CNN under a pseudonym, "Dean."

The Cossacks patch features a caricature of a wild-eyed, sneering cossack with scimitar poised to strike.

Paying dues to someone else is an obvious irritant, said Dean, who was at Waco: "Why am I going to pay dues if I'm a part of myself? It doesn't make sense why I'm going to pay someone to be able to ride my motorcycle in the state of Texas."

Pike said all this Cossacks resentment is a recent development.

"We talked about it and said 'Where did this hatred come from?' It just popped up," the Bandidos president said. "Those guys have been around as long as we have almost, and we never hung out together or anything, but we never bothered each other, either. And in the past two years, it's just gone crazy."

'We are at war'

There are almost as many versions of what caused the tension between the Bandidos and Cossacks as there are Bandidos and Cossacks. But the federal indictment is as good a place as any to start. It lays out a series of skirmishes between the clubs during the months leading up to Waco.

Pike and the other two Bandidos leaders named in the indictment were nowhere near Waco on the day of the shootout. (All three have pleaded not guilty.) And, indeed, it makes no mention of Waco. But it does provide a brief, official version of the bad blood building between the two clubs.

The Bandidos are a huge, international club with 175 chapters -- 42 of them in Texas.

The Cossacks also are a Texas club, and much smaller, with maybe 200 members across the state. But they are ambitious. They'd been on a recruiting spree, and as 2015 began, they were standing up to the Bandidos again.

Jeff Pike is the Bandidos president; he was arrested at his home in January.

By February 2015, Pike was stepping aside as national president of the Bandidos and taking a health leave.

Pike handed responsibility over to his number two, vice president John Xavier Portillo. It was Portillo who informed club members that they were at war with the Cossacks, according to the indictment.

The first clash came in November 2013, when 10 Bandidos confronted a group of Cossacks in Abilene. A knife fight broke out, and four Cossacks were seriously hurt. "This is our town. If you come back, I will kill you," the president of the Bandidos' Abilene chapter allegedly warned, according to the indictment, which didn't name him.

About a year later, Portillo again told club members about the ongoing war. A group of Bandidos crashed a sports bar during a meeting between the Cossacks and their support clubs. A member of a support club called the Ghost Riders was shot and killed. As they left, the Bandidos slapped one of their club stickers on the bar door.

In March 2015, the indictment states, Portillo told Pike to "turn his back from what I'm gonna do" in what prosecutors claim was an attempt "to shield Pike from criminal responsibility" regarding the war with the Cossacks. He allegedly repeated on March 3 that the Bandidos were "at war" with the Cossacks, stating that he "wants that Texas rocker back," referring to the patch.

Later, on March 20 and 21, the Bandidos went on a "birthday run" to celebrate the anniversary of their Tyler, Texas, chapter. Tyler, of course, was the birthplace of the Cossacks. Portillo, according to the indictment, urged four Bandidos to "shake up (expletive)" and "get a little aggressive" with the Cossacks.

Then, on March 22, about 20 Bandidos swarmed a Cossack pumping gas in Palo Pinto County. They demanded his vest, which included the Texas rocker, and beat him with a claw hammer, according to the indictment.

On May 1, the Texas Joint Crime Information Center issued a bulletin warning of "escalating conflict" between the Bandidos and Cossacks. It listed additional confrontations -- including a March 22 assault of a lone Cossack by about 10 Bandidos in Lorena, a plan in which 100 Bandidos would ride to Odessa on April 11 to start a "war" with the Cossacks, and reports of three confrontations between Bandidos and Cossacks in east Texas on April 24.

As the bulletin stated: "This conflict may stem from Cossacks members refusing to pay the Bandidos dues for operating in Texas and for claiming Texas as their territory by wearing the Texas bottom rocker on their vests."

'Cossacks all over me'

The Cossacks said they came to Twin Peaks to talk about a truce. The Bandidos say they rolled up on an ambush.

By noon, about 60 or 70 Cossacks had already lined up their bikes in the best parking spots at Twin Peaks. They had the run of the patio, too, when Jake and the others from Dallas pulled up.

The Bandidos had wanted to get there early to stake out a good table. They said they hadn't counted on seeing any Cossacks there.

Jake Carrizal was among the first of the Bandidos to pull into the parking lot at Twin Peaks.

Jake spotted an empty section along the row of parked bikes and started to back his Harley into the spot on the end.

"As I'm backing in, I see that whole patio where the Cossacks were -- they all cleared out and came to the parking lot," he said. He spotted batons, brass knuckles and clubs and immediately knew: "They weren't there to chit-chat. They were on a mission. They were there to confront us."

He was surrounded. That saying about your whole life flashing before your eyes? It's true, Jake said.

"All I can think about was my kids, and my girlfriend, and my whole life, you know? And just seeing them with brass knuckles. Who does that, you know?"

When he saw the first punch thrown, he knew it was on.

"They were attacking us. And I was fighting for my life," he recalled.

"I had guys all over me -- Cossacks all over me," Jake said.

The Bandidos behind Jake didn't have time to shut off their bikes before the Cossacks were all over them, too, Jake and his father said.

"One of these punks, he comes out shooting like Rambo," Chris Carrizal said. "It was planned out, man, it was planned. They were waiting for us. They were waiting to kill as many of us as possible. There's no doubt in my mind. We weren't there to murder anybody, we weren't there to hurt anybody."

Where things stand: The U.S. Attorney's Office for the Western District of Texas has indicted the highest-ranking members of the Bandidos organization, charging them with racketeering acts including murder, attempted murder, assault, intimidation, extortion, and drug trafficking.

Jeffrey Fay Pike, the group's national president; John Xavier Portillo, the group's national vice president; and Justin Cole Forster, the group's national sergeant at arms, were arrested on January 6. 2016.

Portillo and Forster have both entered not guilty pleas, and remain in federal custody. Pike has also pleaded not guilty and has been out on bond since mid-January.

Jury selection and trial is scheduled for all three defendants on October 11, 2016, before U.S. District Judge David A. Ezra in San Antonio.

May 17, 2016, marks one year since a deadly brawl at the Twin Peaks restaurant in Waco, Texas, between members of the Bandidos and Cossacks motorcycle clubs. Nine bikers died in the shootout, and 18 others were injured.

154 of the 177 bikers arrested have been indicted by a Waco grand jury on charges of engaging in organized criminal activity, which comes with a maximum sentence of life in prison. All the bikers are out of jail on bond, awaiting trial dates.

According to Waco police, 44 shell casings fired by law enforcement were recovered from the scene.

Lying on the ground, Jake pulled one of his assailants close, using him as a shield.

"And the whole time, I'm hearing gunshots go off. I hear the shots going off, whizzing by me. And you know, my dad's there, my uncle's there, I'm there and my brothers are there," Jake said. "If I'm not getting hit, someone's getting hit."

And it's just a bad feeling. Horrible feeling. Scary feeling. "I've never been that scared in my life."

Somebody pulled the people off Jake, and he crawled under a truck for cover. He saw a biker lying on the ground and wondered, Was it Dad?

"That's when it hit me," Jake said. "(The biker) wasn't moving, he was laying on his back, and without a doubt he was killed. It was hard to see. It was hard to comprehend, and I remember yelling for my dad, because I knew he was somewhere there."

Then he saw his father appear around a corner, helped along by two police officers. He was a bloody mess, but he was walking.

"That was an awesome feeling," Jake said. "He got shot in the back, in the shoulder, and as bad as that image was seeing my dad full of blood, it was awesome seeing him, knowing that he was alive."

Chris Carrizal had wondered if he was a goner at 52.

"When I first fell and hit the ground, I could feel the blood coming out of my shoulder, and I was thinking, 'That's it. That's it, you know, I'm going to die right here today and there's nothing I can do about it,'" he recalled.

He thought he'd seen his son's body, too. The dead biker he spotted wore square-toed boots, just like Jake does.

"I said, 'Man, Jake's dead, he's laying there dead. ...'" His voiced trailed off as he fought back tears. "It was tough, man, but luckily it wasn't him."

Someone brought Chris to Jake. He laid his dad down on a grassy strip by the parking lot, resting his father's head on his lap.

"He was on blood thinners," Jake recalled, "and he was telling me, 'You take care of the boys, and you take care of Mom.'" Jake didn't want to hear that. He urged his father, "Be strong, you'll make it."

Only later would he find out how lucky his dad had been. A few millimeters to the left and the bullet would have killed him. A little to the right, and he would have been paralyzed.

Ambush or not, the simple truth is the Cossacks got the worst of it. When the guns finally fell silent, seven Cossacks lay dead -- guys with road names like Rattle Can, Side Track, Diesel, Trainer, Chain, Bear and Dog. Just one of the Bandidos -- "Candyman" -- was killed, along with an unaffiliated biker, a 65-year-old Vietnam vet with Bandidos friends.

Afterward, police recovered more than 470 weapons, including 151 firearms.

Operation Texas Rocker

The feds came for El Presidente before dawn on the first Wednesday in January. Nearly eight months had passed since the fight in Waco, but Bandidos leader Pike hadn't been there for that. He was waking up after colon surgery when his wife told him about the shootout with the Cossacks. Through the haze, it seemed surreal.

Still does.

JUST WATCHED Exclusive look inside motorcycle club president's home Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Exclusive look inside motorcycle club president's home 02:25

Pike might not have been at Twin Peaks, but the feds see him as the shot-caller, which is why they'd come calling. They had an indictment naming Pike as the head of a 2,000-member gang that murders and beats rivals, deals methamphetamine, engages in extortion, wages war with its enemies and terrorizes witnesses.

Pike is confident the government will be unable to directly link him to illegal activity. The indictment does not accuse Pike of specific crimes; instead, it places him at the top of the Bandidos and alleges he benefited from the crimes of others.

In announcing the indictment hours after Pike's arrest, the Drug Enforcement Administration's Joseph M. Arabit said their investigation -- dubbed "Operation Texas Rocker" -- had "inflicted a debilitating blow to the leadership hierarchy and violent perpetrators of the Bandidos Outlaw Motorcycle Gang."

"This 23-month operation highlights a deliberate and strategic effort to cut off and shut down the supply of methamphetamine trafficked by the Bandidos as well as other related criminal activity," said Arabit, who heads the DEA's Houston office.

Armed agents circled Jeff Pike's home in January.

On that early morning in January, armed agents quietly circled Pike's house, set on five acres in Conroe, a straight 45-mile shot north of Houston on I-45. Over a loudspeaker, they ordered Pike to surrender.

Nobody was more surprised to see that SWAT team than Pike, who at age 60 has been with the Bandidos for 36 years and presidente for the last 11. He'd been investigated a few times before but never arrested, which made him a standout among Bandidos leaders.

His four predecessors had all gone to prison for various acts of mayhem. Bandidos founder Donald Chambers and two others were convicted of murder for killing two drug dealers after making them dig their own graves.

Pike said he likes things quiet. He insisted he's boring. He staggered sleepily out of the house in bare feet, his hands in the air. He recognized one of the agents.

And then he saw the armored vehicle. He knew this was serious.

"There's an Army tank-looking thing with red and blue lights on it in my driveway," he said. "But they said, 'Come on out, keep your hands up.' And I walked out, and it was very cordial."

He said he's grateful agents didn't trash his house. "They didn't wreck my gate, they didn't even drive on the grass. I made sure my dog didn't get out. I was very appreciative of the way they arrested me."

And then he read the indictment and didn't see anything to worry about.

"There's nothing in that indictment that says I did anything," he said. "But the cops got an old saying: 'You might beat the rap, but you're not going to beat the ride.' So I'm just going to have to play along here for a while."

He said the feds have 800 hours of taped conversations. He is like a ghost in them, he said, except for a brief mention in a single phone call. If he's a shot-caller, he appears to be a very well-insulated one.

"Somebody mentioned my name in a telephone call," Pike said. "That's why I got arrested. I mean that's ridiculous."

He wonders aloud what the point of all this might be. What do the feds want?

"Are they out to just destroy us, or do you want to make good citizens out of us?"

Like the local police, the feds aren't talking. Legal observers expect more federal indictments to come, naming more Bandidos as participants in the alleged conspiracy. Waco could prove to be fertile ground, supplying future federal witnesses -- and defendants.

There are also signs that federal investigators' interest expanded after Waco to include the Cossacks. They seem to have caught the eye of the DEA, in particular, according to an internal memo obtained by CNN.

"I don't think they're gonna try anybody in Waco," said Houston lawyer Paul Looney, who represents an arrested Cossack and a couple caught up in the melee.

"I think the entire detention in Waco is a babysitting exercise while the feds complete their investigation. There'll be a superseding federal indictment out of San Antonio in which a lot of the people that were arrested in Waco go into that indictment, and the Waco prosecutions will just go by the by."

'He had a real fighting heart'

A year later, Bandidos and Cossacks look back on Waco and shake their heads at the violence they witnessed. Nearly everyone says it caught them by surprise. Some of the older guys say it reminded them of combat. Many still struggle with having been forced to leave bleeding "brothers" behind.

Reeves, the Cossacks leader, was shot -- and so was his son.

"I was on the ground," he told police, according to his statement, which CNN obtained. "I can't see anybody pull the trigger but I heard a s--- ton of bullets flying. It was pop-pop, nonstop. And I didn't wanna get up. I didn't even wanna turn my head and see where it was coming from. I was trying to be still so they didn't pop me, thinking I was still alive. Being honest man, I, I was f---ing scared."

When the shooting stopped, Reeves said, he looked up and saw a fellow biker "with a hole in his head." And then he saw his son, dying.

"He got clipped in the head. My son got shot in the head, and started bleeding out next to me. And I started trying to deal with him," Reeves told police. "The other guys were trying to resuscitate him, and he had a real fighting heart, but (police) made us leave, and he just got left."

Another Cossack said he, too, was troubled by the wounded bikers left behind in the mayhem. He believes more might have survived if they'd received prompt medical attention.

"Would I take a bullet for a brother? I have, even though I was unarmed. I was there," said Dean, the Cossack who spoke with CNN on the condition his identity not be revealed.

"I still remember the blood coming out of me, the pain, the people around me being shot," Dean said. "It just seems like it happened so fast, but it took forever for it to end."

He said nobody meant for Waco to happen, and he struggles to understand why it did.

He's asked the question that has been on everyone's mind: What did all those people die for?

"It almost looks like stupidity," he said, pausing and searching for a better reason. He seems relieved when one comes to mind.

"They died protecting other people," Dean said. "They were the ones who took the hits. They were the ones who stopped the bullets from hitting other people."

It sounds so much more noble.

Because, as the Cossacks and Bandidos kept telling us, dying over a patch would be stupid.

====== 2744 ========

THERE’S NO SUCH THING AS FREE WILL

For centuries, philosophers and theologians have almost unanimously held that civilization as we know it depends on a widespread belief in free will—and that losing this belief could be calamitous. Our codes of ethics, for example, assume that we can freely choose between right and wrong. In the Christian tradition, this is known as “moral liberty”—the capacity to discern and pursue the good, instead of merely being compelled by appetites and desires. The great Enlightenment philosopher Immanuel Kant reaffirmed this link between freedom and goodness. If we are not free to choose, he argued, then it would make no sense to say we ought to choose the path of righteousness. Today, the assumption of free will runs through every aspect of American politics, from welfare provision to criminal law. It permeates the popular culture and underpins the American dream—the belief that anyone can make something of themselves no matter what their start in life. As Barack Obama wrote in The Audacity of Hope, American “values are rooted in a basic optimism about life and a faith in free will.”

So what happens if this faith erodes? The sciences have grown steadily bolder in their claim that all human behavior can be explained through the clockwork laws of cause and effect. This shift in perception is the continuation of an intellectual revolution that began about 150 years ago, when Charles Darwin first published On the Origin of Species. Shortly after Darwin put forth his theory of evolution, his cousin Sir Francis Galton began to draw out the implications: If we have evolved, then mental faculties like intelligence must be hereditary. But we use those faculties—which some people have to a greater degree than others—to make decisions. So our ability to choose our fate is not free, but depends on our biological inheritance. Galton launched a debate that raged throughout the 20th century over nature versus nurture. Are our actions the unfolding effect of our genetics? Or the outcome of what has been imprinted on us by the environment? Impressive evidence accumulated for the importance of each factor. Whether scientists supported one, the other, or a mix of both, they increasingly assumed that our deeds must be determined by something. In recent decades, research on the inner workings of the brain has helped to resolve the nature-nurture debate—and has dealt a further blow to the idea of free will. Brain scanners have enabled us to peer inside a living person’s skull, revealing intricate networks of neurons and allowing scientists to reach broad agreement that these networks are shaped by both genes and environment. But there is also agreement in the scientific community that the firing of neurons determines not just some or most but all of our thoughts, hopes, memories, and dreams.

We know that changes to brain chemistry can alter behavior—otherwise neither alcohol nor antipsychotics would have their desired effects. The same holds true for brain structure: Cases of ordinary adults becoming murderers or pedophiles after developing a brain tumor demonstrate how dependent we are on the physical properties of our gray stuff. Many scientists say that the American physiologist Benjamin Libet demonstrated in the 1980s that we have no free will. It was already known that electrical activity builds up in a person’s brain before she, for example, moves her hand; Libet showed that this buildup occurs before the person consciously makes a decision to move. The conscious experience of deciding to act, which we usually associate with free will, appears to be an add-on, a post hoc reconstruction of events that occurs after the brain has already set the act in motion. The 20th-century nature-nurture debate prepared us to think of ourselves as shaped by influences beyond our control. But it left some room, at least in the popular imagination, for the possibility that we could overcome our circumstances or our genes to become the author of our own destiny. The challenge posed by neuroscience is more radical: It describes the brain as a physical system like any other, and suggests that we no more will it to operate in a particular way than we will our heart to beat. The contemporary scientific image of human behavior is one of neurons firing, causing other neurons to fire, causing our thoughts and deeds, in an unbroken chain that stretches back to our birth and beyond. In principle, we are therefore completely predictable. If we could understand any individual’s brain architecture and chemistry well enough, we could, in theory, predict that individual’s response to any given stimulus with 100 percent accuracy.

This research and its implications are not new. What is new, though, is the spread of free-will skepticism beyond the laboratories and into the mainstream. The number of court cases, for example, that use evidence from neuroscience has more than doubled in the past decade—mostly in the context of defendants arguing that their brain made them do it. And many people are absorbing this message in other contexts, too, at least judging by the number of books and articles purporting to explain “your brain on” everything from music to magic. Determinism, to one degree or another, is gaining popular currency. The skeptics are in ascendance. This development raises uncomfortable—and increasingly nontheoretical—questions: If moral responsibility depends on faith in our own agency, then as belief in determinism spreads, will we become morally irresponsible? And if we increasingly see belief in free will as a delusion, what will happen to all those institutions that are based on it? In 2002, two psychologists had a simple but brilliant idea: Instead of speculating about what might happen if people lost belief in their capacity to choose, they could run an experiment to find out. Kathleen Vohs, then at the University of Utah, and Jonathan Schooler, of the University of Pittsburgh, asked one group of participants to read a passage arguing that free will was an illusion, and another group to read a passage that was neutral on the topic. Then they subjected the members of each group to a variety of temptations and observed their behavior. Would differences in abstract philosophical beliefs influence people’s decisions?

Yes, indeed. When asked to take a math test, with cheating made easy, the group primed to see free will as illusory proved more likely to take an illicit peek at the answers. When given an opportunity to steal—to take more money than they were due from an envelope of $1 coins—those whose belief in free will had been undermined pilfered more. On a range of measures, Vohs told me, she and Schooler found that “people who are induced to believe less in free will are more likely to behave immorally.” It seems that when people stop believing they are free agents, they stop seeing themselves as blameworthy for their actions. Consequently, they act less responsibly and give in to their baser instincts. Vohs emphasized that this result is not limited to the contrived conditions of a lab experiment. “You see the same effects with people who naturally believe more or less in free will,” she said. Edmon de Haro In another study, for instance, Vohs and colleagues measured the extent to which a group of day laborers believed in free will, then examined their performance on the job by looking at their supervisor’s ratings. Those who believed more strongly that they were in control of their own actions showed up on time for work more frequently and were rated by supervisors as more capable. In fact, belief in free will turned out to be a better predictor of job performance than established measures such as self-professed work ethic.

Another pioneer of research into the psychology of free will, Roy Baumeister of Florida State University, has extended these findings. For example, he and colleagues found that students with a weaker belief in free will were less likely to volunteer their time to help a classmate than were those whose belief in free will was stronger. Likewise, those primed to hold a deterministic view by reading statements like “Science has demonstrated that free will is an illusion” were less likely to give money to a homeless person or lend someone a cellphone. Further studies by Baumeister and colleagues have linked a diminished belief in free will to stress, unhappiness, and a lesser commitment to relationships. They found that when subjects were induced to believe that “all human actions follow from prior events and ultimately can be understood in terms of the movement of molecules,” those subjects came away with a lower sense of life’s meaningfulness. Early this year, other researchers published a study showing that a weaker belief in free will correlates with poor academic performance. The list goes on: Believing that free will is an illusion has been shown to make people less creative, more likely to conform, less willing to learn from their mistakes, and less grateful toward one another. In every regard, it seems, when we embrace determinism, we indulge our dark side. Few scholars are comfortable suggesting that people ought to believe an outright lie. Advocating the perpetuation of untruths would breach their integrity and violate a principle that philosophers have long held dear: the Platonic hope that the true and the good go hand in hand. Saul Smilansky, a philosophy professor at the University of Haifa, in Israel, has wrestled with this dilemma throughout his career and come to a painful conclusion: “We cannot afford for people to internalize the truth” about free will.

Smilansky is convinced that free will does not exist in the traditional sense—and that it would be very bad if most people realized this. “Imagine,” he told me, “that I’m deliberating whether to do my duty, such as to parachute into enemy territory, or something more mundane like to risk my job by reporting on some wrongdoing. If everyone accepts that there is no free will, then I’ll know that people will say, ‘Whatever he did, he had no choice—we can’t blame him.’ So I know I’m not going to be condemned for taking the selfish option.” This, he believes, is very dangerous for society, and “the more people accept the determinist picture, the worse things will get.” Determinism not only undermines blame, Smilansky argues; it also undermines praise. Imagine I do risk my life by jumping into enemy territory to perform a daring mission. Afterward, people will say that I had no choice, that my feats were merely, in Smilansky’s phrase, “an unfolding of the given,” and therefore hardly praiseworthy. And just as undermining blame would remove an obstacle to acting wickedly, so undermining praise would remove an incentive to do good. Our heroes would seem less inspiring, he argues, our achievements less noteworthy, and soon we would sink into decadence and despondency. Smilansky advocates a view he calls illusionism—the belief that free will is indeed an illusion, but one that society must defend. The idea of determinism, and the facts supporting it, must be kept confined within the ivory tower. Only the initiated, behind those walls, should dare to, as he put it to me, “look the dark truth in the face.” Smilansky says he realizes that there is something drastic, even terrible, about this idea—but if the choice is between the true and the good, then for the sake of society, the true must go. When people stop believing they are free agents, they stop seeing themselves as blameworthy for their actions. Smilansky’s arguments may sound odd at first, given his contention that the world is devoid of free will: If we are not really deciding anything, who cares what information is let loose? But new information, of course, is a sensory input like any other; it can change our behavior, even if we are not the conscious agents of that change. In the language of cause and effect, a belief in free will may not inspire us to make the best of ourselves, but it does stimulate us to do so. Illusionism is a minority position among academic philosophers, most of whom still hope that the good and the true can be reconciled. But it represents an ancient strand of thought among intellectual elites. Nietzsche called free will “a theologians’ artifice” that permits us to “judge and punish.” And many thinkers have believed, as Smilansky does, that institutions of judgment and punishment are necessary if we are to avoid a fall into barbarism.

Smilansky is not advocating policies of Orwellian thought control. Luckily, he argues, we don’t need them. Belief in free will comes naturally to us. Scientists and commentators merely need to exercise some self-restraint, instead of gleefully disabusing people of the illusions that undergird all they hold dear. Most scientists “don’t realize what effect these ideas can have,” Smilansky told me. “Promoting determinism is complacent and dangerous.” Yet not all scholars who argue publicly against free will are blind to the social and psychological consequences. Some simply don’t agree that these consequences might include the collapse of civilization. One of the most prominent is the neuroscientist and writer Sam Harris, who, in his 2012 book, Free Will, set out to bring down the fantasy of conscious choice. Like Smilansky, he believes that there is no such thing as free will. But Harris thinks we are better off without the whole notion of it. “We need our beliefs to track what is true,” Harris told me. Illusions, no matter how well intentioned, will always hold us back. For example, we currently use the threat of imprisonment as a crude tool to persuade people not to do bad things. But if we instead accept that “human behavior arises from neurophysiology,” he argued, then we can better understand what is really causing people to do bad things despite this threat of punishment—and how to stop them. “We need,” Harris told me, “to know what are the levers we can pull as a society to encourage people to be the best version of themselves they can be.”

According to Harris, we should acknowledge that even the worst criminals—murderous psychopaths, for example—are in a sense unlucky. “They didn’t pick their genes. They didn’t pick their parents. They didn’t make their brains, yet their brains are the source of their intentions and actions.” In a deep sense, their crimes are not their fault. Recognizing this, we can dispassionately consider how to manage offenders in order to rehabilitate them, protect society, and reduce future offending. Harris thinks that, in time, “it might be possible to cure something like psychopathy,” but only if we accept that the brain, and not some airy-fairy free will, is the source of the deviancy. Accepting this would also free us from hatred. Holding people responsible for their actions might sound like a keystone of civilized life, but we pay a high price for it: Blaming people makes us angry and vengeful, and that clouds our judgment. “Compare the response to Hurricane Katrina,” Harris suggested, with “the response to the 9/11 act of terrorism.” For many Americans, the men who hijacked those planes are the embodiment of criminals who freely choose to do evil. But if we give up our notion of free will, then their behavior must be viewed like any other natural phenomenon—and this, Harris believes, would make us much more rational in our response. Although the scale of the two catastrophes was similar, the reactions were wildly different. Nobody was striving to exact revenge on tropical storms or declare a War on Weather, so responses to Katrina could simply focus on rebuilding and preventing future disasters. The response to 9/11, Harris argues, was clouded by outrage and the desire for vengeance, and has led to the unnecessary loss of countless more lives. Harris is not saying that we shouldn’t have reacted at all to 9/11, only that a coolheaded response would have looked very different and likely been much less wasteful. “Hatred is toxic,” he told me, “and can destabilize individual lives and whole societies. Losing belief in free will undercuts the rationale for ever hating anyone.”

Whereas the evidence from Kathleen Vohs and her colleagues suggests that social problems may arise from seeing our own actions as determined by forces beyond our control—weakening our morals, our motivation, and our sense of the meaningfulness of life—Harris thinks that social benefits will result from seeing other people’s behavior in the very same light. From that vantage point, the moral implications of determinism look very different, and quite a lot better. What’s more, Harris argues, as ordinary people come to better understand how their brains work, many of the problems documented by Vohs and others will dissipate. Determinism, he writes in his book, does not mean “that conscious awareness and deliberative thinking serve no purpose.” Certain kinds of action require us to become conscious of a choice—to weigh arguments and appraise evidence. True, if we were put in exactly the same situation again, then 100 times out of 100 we would make the same decision, “just like rewinding a movie and playing it again.” But the act of deliberation—the wrestling with facts and emotions that we feel is essential to our nature—is nonetheless real. The big problem, in Harris’s view, is that people often confuse determinism with fatalism. Determinism is the belief that our decisions are part of an unbreakable chain of cause and effect. Fatalism, on the other hand, is the belief that our decisions don’t really matter, because whatever is destined to happen will happen—like Oedipus’s marriage to his mother, despite his efforts to avoid that fate. Most scientists “don’t realize what effect these ideas can have,” Smilansky told me. It is “complacent and dangerous” to air them. When people hear there is no free will, they wrongly become fatalistic; they think their efforts will make no difference. But this is a mistake. People are not moving toward an inevitable destiny; given a different stimulus (like a different idea about free will), they will behave differently and so have different lives. If people better understood these fine distinctions, Harris believes, the consequences of losing faith in free will would be much less negative than Vohs’s and Baumeister’s experiments suggest.

Can one go further still? Is there a way forward that preserves both the inspiring power of belief in free will and the compassionate understanding that comes with determinism? Philosophers and theologians are used to talking about free will as if it is either on or off; as if our consciousness floats, like a ghost, entirely above the causal chain, or as if we roll through life like a rock down a hill. But there might be another way of looking at human agency. Some scholars argue that we should think about freedom of choice in terms of our very real and sophisticated abilities to map out multiple potential responses to a particular situation. One of these is Bruce Waller, a philosophy professor at Youngstown State University. In his new book, Restorative Free Will, he writes that we should focus on our ability, in any given setting, to generate a wide range of options for ourselves, and to decide among them without external constraint. For Waller, it simply doesn’t matter that these processes are underpinned by a causal chain of firing neurons. In his view, free will and determinism are not the opposites they are often taken to be; they simply describe our behavior at different levels. Waller believes his account fits with a scientific understanding of how we evolved: Foraging animals—humans, but also mice, or bears, or crows—need to be able to generate options for themselves and make decisions in a complex and changing environment. Humans, with our massive brains, are much better at thinking up and weighing options than other animals are. Our range of options is much wider, and we are, in a meaningful way, freer as a result.

====== 2745 ========

THIS MAN MEMORIZED A 60,000-WORD POEM USING DEEP ENCODING

Photograph by Felipe Gabaldón / Flickr

Of man’s first disobedience, and the fruit of that forbidden tree,” John Basinger said aloud to himself, as he walked on a treadmill. “Of man’s first disobedience…” In 1992, at the age of 58, Basinger decided to memorize Paradise Lost, John Milton’s epic poem, as a form of mental activity while he was working out at the gym. An actor, he’d memorized shorter poems before, and he wanted to see how much of the epic he could remember. “As I finished each book,” he wrote, “I began to perform it and keep it alive in repertory while committing the next to memory.”

The twelve books of Paradise Lost contain over 60,000 words; it took Basinger about 3,000 hours to learn them by rote. He did so by reciting the piece, line-by-line out loud, for about an hour a day for nine years. When he memorized all 12 books, in 2001, Basinger performed the masterpiece in a live recital that lasted three days. Since then, he’s performed smaller sections for various audiences, eventually attracting the attention of John Seamon, a psychologist at Wesleyan University, in Connecticut. In 2008, “He recited for an hour in the Wesleyan library,” says Seamon. “He’d given out copies of Milton’s book so we could follow along. At the end of the talk I introduced myself and said ‘I’d love to study your memory.’” Basinger agreed, and so Seamon devised a test.

Then 74, Basinger came into the lab to perform a series of cued recall tests. Scientists read two successive lines from each of the poem’s 12 books and then asked Basinger to recall the next 10 lines. The results, published in Memory in 2010, were surprising: Despite the amount of elapsed time since his memorization process, Basinger’s recall was, overall, word-perfect 88 percent of the time. When he was prompted with lines that opened one of the 12 books, his accuracy increased to 98 percent.

Seamon wondered how he might explain this performance, and realized deliberate practice theory could be useful. Although it was “formulated to account for elite performance in chess, music, and sports, it provides a reasonable basis for interpreting JB’s procedure for memorising Paradise Lost,” says Seamon. “He too, in daily short sessions, devoted thousands of hours of study over a period of years to achieve his mastery of Milton.” But Basinger didn’t just remember the words; it would be a mistake, says Seamon, to interpret Basinger’s performance as “simply a remarkable demonstration of brute force, rote memorisation.”

In order to memorize the epic poem, he spent a lot of time repeatedly analyzing its meaning and structure. Acting researchers emphasize this strategy, Seamon notes: “Deep encoding requires actors to attend to the exact wording of lines, and it is the focus on exact wording to gain an understanding of the characters that yields verbatim memory, instead of merely the retention of gist.”

Deep encoding involves making “complex semantic judgments” during a given task, as opposed to “shallow” encoding, which typically consists of just perceptual judgments—like determining the color or size of words—that “result in significantly poorer memory performance,” say David Thomson, a psychologist at the University of Waterloo, and colleagues. Actors like Basinger use deep encoding to give “honest, spontaneous performances, ones that focus on communicating the meanings underlying the literal words,” according to psychologists Helga and Tony Noice. “Indeed, when actors do mention memory,” they write, “it is usually within the context of forgetting the lines until they are needed to communicate the feeling of the moment.” Basinger, Seamon says, “really got into the story, what Milton was trying to convey.” Noice and Noice suggest that this would aid his recall: “Bodily action and emotional response, in addition to semantic analysis, can enhance human memory.”

John Martin (1841)

The books describe the Biblical story of the fall of man—the temptation of Eve by Satan then her and Adam’s expulsion from the Garden of Eden—as well as the prior civil war between God and the rebellious angels, led by Satan. Milton’s Paradise Lost, said the 18th century writer and critic Samuel Johnson, demonstrates “his peculiar power to astonish”—especially in his portrayal of Satan as a heroic figure. “There is much to be gained from an aesthetic point of view by making evil characters complex, glamorous, and persuasive, and to do so without changing what they are,” says Gordon Teskey, an English professor at Harvard. “The Greeks taught Milton to make a character majestic in evil without diminishing the evil of evil.” (Milton’s purpose, he writes in Book I, is to “justify the ways of God to men.”) “During the incessant repetition of Milton’s words, I really began to listen to them,” says Basinger, “and every now and then as the whole poem began to take shape in my mind, an insight would come, an understanding, a delicious possibility.”

Nothing in Basinger’s tests suggested that his memory was otherwise irregular or exceptional. “His memory for everyday tasks appears entirely normal for someone his age,” Seamon says. “He still forgets where he puts his keys.” For those of us who struggle to remember to-do lists, it’s encouraging to know: “Our findings are in agreement with other research on world-class memory performers,” Seamon says, “which indicates that exceptional memorizers are made, not born.”

For his part, Basinger says his years of effort have let him explore Paradise Lost as if it were a physical space. “As a cathedral I carry around in my mind,” he says, “a place that I can enter and walk around at will.”





Lois Parshley is a freelance journalist. Follow her on Twitter @Loisparshley.

Lead photograph by Felipe Gabaldón via Flickr.







====== 2746 ========

A BEARD TAX IS BEING PROPOSED IN ENGLAND, AND IT’S NOT THE FIRST

An 1884 beard trimming chart. Should men who look like this be taxed? (Image: W. W. Bode/Public Domain)

Beards—once associated strictly with hermits and wizards—have become one of the hottest fashion accessories for men in the past few years, with celebrities, athletes, and style-conscious men around the globe growing, grooming, and styling their facial hair to match the latest trends. But despite their current popularity, beards remain deeply divisive and this week, one British barber and businessman has floated a radical proposal to discourage hirsute faces, or at least make some money off the men who refuse to renounce them.

Anthony Kent is proposing a UK beard tax; surprisingly, he’s not the first person to have the idea.

The proposal, a £100 tax on the bushiest of beards, with a reduced £50 fee for those with more modest growth, has a historical basis. According to the Worcester News, Kent discovered tales of Henry VIII’s 16th-century tax levied on the bearded men of England, and inspiration struck. He explained, “My head started whirring away and I started thinking you might be onto something here. I thought—they need to reduce the deficit, so maybe they can start taxing beards with them being so prevalent at the moment!”

Claims that Henry VIII introduced a beard tax in 1535 (despite possessing his own set of well-groomed whiskers) have found their way into numerous books, blog posts, and (of course) Wikipedia, but the tale seems to be apocryphal. One prolific blogger on the life and times of Henry VIII has noted that while he has found evidence that beard-pulling was a crime punishable by fines, primary sources for the 16th-century beard tax have been difficult to locate. Similarly, Dr. Alun Withey, an academic historian of medicine and the body, told the BBC in April that contemporary documents do not support the existence of Henry VIII’s beard tax.

While the prior existence of an English beard tax is dubious, there is well-documented historical support for the taxation of facial hair; specifically, Russia’s Peter the Great began taxing beards in 1698, a policy that created significant controversy at the time.

Peter developed anti-beard sentiments after his 1697 grand tour of Western Europe. The tour famously convinced the monarch that Russia was desperately behind-the-times — economically, scientifically, and sartorially — and inspired him to undertake substantial efforts towards modernizing his country. As Mental Floss explains, he initiated his grand modernization with quite a “barber-ous” gesture:

After Peter’s triumphant return to Russia at the end of his European voyage in 1698, a joyous reception was thrown in his honor. In attendance were his commander of the army, his frequent second-in-command Fyodor Romodanovsky, and a host of assorted aides and diplomats. Suddenly, the crowd’s mood went from elation to horror as Peter unexpectedly pulled out a massive barber’s razor. As biographer Robert K. Massie writes, “After passing among his [friends] and embracing them… he began shaving off their beards” with his own hands! Given his political stature, none of his associates dared question this stunning turn of events.

An article in Coins Weekly regarding the mass shaving incident adds that only the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church was spared. Long, flowing beards were considered a symbol of manhood, integrity, and piety according to Orthodox ideals, with Ivan the Terrible writing, “Shaving the beard is a sin the blood of all martyrs will not wash away. It would mean blemishing the image of man as God created him.”

Given this cultural preference for beards, Peter turned to taxation to incentivize shaving; with an exception for priests, men who refused to shave their beards were taxed 100 roubles a year—a small fortune at the time, according to Russia Today. Peasants were held to a modified version of the tax and only required to shave when entering a city (or pay a fine of one kopek to keep their luxurious facial locks).

A Russian beard token, signifying that the bearer of this coin has paid to look like that. (Photo: US State Department/Public Domain)

To verify that a bearded man had paid his tax and did not need to be forcibly shaved (and yes, noncompliant men were forcibly shaved) “beard tokens” were minted and given as proof that the tax had been paid. The token bore an image of the Russian eagle on one side and a bearded face on the other, and were inscribed with the phrases “The tax has been taken” and “The beard is a superfluous burden”.

Peter’s beard tax was abolished in 1772, ending the world’s most ambitious regulation of facial hair. But Kent is not the first person to unearth the concept. In 2014, Dr. Alun Withey discovered evidence that a New Jersey state legislator attempted to introduce a graduated beard tax. Convinced that beards provided a furry mask for the morally unseemly, the legislator suggested a taxation scale that can only be summarized as “strange.” Dr. Withey explains:

For an ‘ordinary beard’ the tax was levied at $1 per year. This was fairly straightforward. But, from then on, things got a bit strange. For those men whose whiskers exceeded six inches long the charge was $2…per inch. A bald man with whiskers was punished to the tune of $5, while goatee beards were clearly high on the undesirable list, coming in at a hefty $10 levy. The final (and rather inexplicable) stipulation was that, if any man sported a ‘red beard’ (i.e. ginger), an extra 20% was chargeable.

As mentioned above, Kent’s proposal is much more modest, but it remains to be seen whether the Chancellor of the Exchequer will take up this attempt to capitalize off fashion trends. But if you’ve been trying to convince a loved one to do away with their beard, you may want to contact your local representative about taxation opportunities.

====== 2747 ========

SHUFFLEBOARD AT MCMURDO (IDLE WORDS)

Shuffleboard At McMurdo

Somewhere below the Antarctic circle, I catch Tatiana, the waitress from the port side dining room, in a moment of leisure.

This is the first time I've ever seen her off-duty. The galley crew on the Akademik Shokalskiy work twelve-hour days preparing, serving, clearing, and cleaning up after meals for fifty-six passengers, often in seas so bad that diners have to hold the edge of the table to keep from falling off their stools (which are prudently bolted to the floor).

I ask the cornered Tanya a few questions about her life on the ship, and she tells me she’s been working the Ross Sea circuit for the last six years.

“Is there anything you're still excited to see in Antarctica?”

“Yes. I would like to visit McMurdo.”

“Really? You want to see the American base?”

She grins.

“I want to buy a Zippo.”

I am not surprised to hear this. The ship’s officers have told me all about the Zippo lighter. Portable, useful, and stylish, it is the most desirable consumer item on the Antarctic continent. Unlike the Chinese knockoffs sold in other ports, the McMurdo article is the real deal, stamped ‘Made in Bradford, PA’ on an all-metal case, with a little golden silhouette of Antarctica embossed on the side.

But you can't just buy this lighter. Getting one involves a Grail-like quest.

For starters, you have to cross the Southern Ocean from New Zealand in a tippy little ship, a two-week ordeal that leaves everyone bruised and miserable. Once in Antarctic waters, you must find a path through the belt of ice that typically guards the entrance to the Ross Sea. There is no guarantee that this will be passable—an identical tourist trip in 2008 had to go back to New Zealand without even glimpsing Antarctica (no refunds).

If you make it through to open water, you must time your arrival at McMurdo Sound between the time the resupply ship arrives (the high point of the Antarctic liturgical calendar, when the entire station is occupied with Offload) and the time a few weeks later when most of the staff have left for home. If McMurdo Sound is frozen over, which happens frequently and unpredictably, there are no second chances. The Shokalskiy is ice-hardened, but it’s not an icebreaker. And there’s no time in the itinerary to wait for conditions to change.

Even if everything goes perfectly, the harbor is open, and the ship is able to anchor in Winter Quarters Bay, passengers still need an invitation from the Americans to come ashore. The station is friendly to visitors, but tourism is not an officially-sanctioned Antarctic activity. Tours are conducted by NSF volunteers in their free time; if the volunteers are busy, you stay on the ship. It’s perfectly possible to reach McMurdo, sit at anchor and stare at the gift shop, three hundred meters away, without being able to come ashore. The ship’s folklore abounds in stories of such near misses.

The whole thing is like one of those Russian fairy tales, where the hero must cross seven seas and seven mountains, slay Koshchei the Deathless, find the giant oak, exhume an iron chest, open it to find a hare, cut the hare open to find a duck, dig through the duck to find an egg, and crack the egg open to reveal an enchanted golden needle, or in this case, Zippo lighter.

Even if the ship makes it to the station, the Americans are willing, and our leader Rodney allows the crew to come ashore with the passengers, dark forces can still come into play in the gift shop itself. The Third Mate tells me about a frustrating visit to the station the previous year. Every passenger who wanted one was able to buy a Zippo, but a deputation from the crew arriving moments later was told they were gone. The staff had hidden them under the counter in a fit of russophobia.

Coming around the top of Ross Island, the suspense is almost too much for me to bear.

I want that goddamned lighter.

With the exception of the small polar station it supplies, McMurdo is the southernmost outpost of American empire. It is also the only significant human settlement in the Ross Sea. Over a thousand people work here in the summer, and 250 stay over for the winter.

The ship’s officers are full of theories about why the Americans are here in numbers, and as a suggestible person who has spent three weeks staring at moving water, I find it easy to believe every crazy thing they say.

“You don't put a thousand soldiers in the middle of nowhere for science,” the Third Mate tells me darkly.

“I don't think they're soldiers. Most of them are civilian contractors.”

By now the Russians are used to my naïveté.

“So who flies these ‘contractors’ to Antarctica?"

“The Air National Guard."

“And who supplies them by sea?”

“The Coast Guard and Navy.”

He waits for me to connect the dots, but I resist.

“Why would we build a secret military base at the bottom of the world?”

“Missiles.”

“Missiles?”

“You put missiles in the ice.”

“Why not use our huge fleet of nuclear submarines?”

“The ice is cheaper.”

And there you have it. I make a mental note to approach America’s premier research station with my eyes open. But I also start to worry about what the Russians are up to at their ring of stations around Antarctica.

McMurdo Station has never completely shed its military origins. The original base (Williams Air Operating Facility, named after an unfortunate whose tractor fell through the sea ice) was built by the US Navy in the run-up to the International Geophysical Year. The IGY was all about peaceful scientific cooperation, but in a Cold War context that just meant competition by other means. The point of building McMurdo was to get Americans to the South Pole, part of an unpublicized Antarctic base race with the Soviet Union. No one had been back to the Pole since the Amundsen and Scott expeditions of 1911, and it was the obvious prestige location in Antarctica. Whoever controlled the Pole would control—well, a tiny area of featureless ice cap. But it seemed important at the time.

The stymied USSR had to settle for a base at the Pole of Inaccessibility, possibly the only place on the continent more miserable than the South Pole. The location lived up to its name. After a few difficult years, the Soviets gave up. All that remains of the station today is a bust of Lenin staring out towards Moscow from a snow drift.

Once built, McMurdo proved a useful staging area for other activities in Antarctica. After the 1959 Antarctic Treaty reserved the continent for peaceful use, the Navy handed over the station to the National Science Foundation, which oversees the entire American Antarctic program.

This program is devoted to science in the same way that the German Air Sports Association in the 1920’s was motivated by a pure love of gliding. In both cases, the terms of a restrictive treaty prevent the open pursuit of more practical goals. This fits with a long Antarctic tradition of using science as a fig leaf for ambition. Every expedition to the continent has proclaimed the purity of its scientific aims while also doing its best to stake out as much territory as possible. In Antarctica, the national flag always goes up before the weather station.

While McMurdo has been consecrated to science, its day-to-day operations are run by defense contractors (previously Raytheon, now Lockheed Martin) who gather like sharks every decade or so when the lucrative Antarctic contract comes up for rebid. The NSF is prohibited by charter from running its own facilities, so at McMurdo, the military-industrial complex is king.

McMurdo is close to the permanent ice of the Ross Ice Shelf. When the station was established in 1956, at around the same time of year as our visit, the sea ice extended for forty miles out. The supply ships had to dock at the ice edge, and tractors ferried everything the rest of the way.

This year we are lucky, and there is open water all the way to Winter Quarters Bay. Descending along the coast of Ross Island, we pass Shackleton’s hut at Cape Royds, Scott’s hut at Cape Evans, a long glacial finger of ice from Mt. Erebus, and reach our anchorage in front of McMurdo at the magic hour when the never-setting sun hangs suspended like a drop of liquid fire over the southeastern horizon, bathing everything around us in its transcendent, golden light.

It doesn't help.

“I am so sorry about this,” I say to the non-American passengers who have joined me on deck. They are staring across the water.

“I had no idea.”

McMurdo looks like a series of shipwrecks that people have tried to make the best of. Four diarrhea-brown dormitories dominate the landscape. Behind them is an assortment of white fuel tanks, pressed into the dirt like oversize aspirin, and between these large structures extends a chaos of pallets, antennas, earth-moving equipment, sewer pipes, and general rubble. A fat radome perches on the ridge line like a giant’s golf ball. We can hear earth-moving equipment growling in the volcanic dirt, as if the island hasn't been put through enough. The whole visible part of the peninsula has been bulldozed into terraces to try and contain the American base.

It’s not just that McMurdo station is ugly—and it is lens-shatteringly ugly—but that there is so damned much of it. After sailing for three weeks with no signs of human activity, no power lines, no chemtrails, no evidence that we exist on the planet at all except for a mournful wooden cabin at Cape Adare, it’s jarring to see this open-air museum of prefabricated regret. Only the United States could find a way to create sprawl with a thousand people.

Old-timers cheerfully concede the place is ugly, but point out that things used to be worse. Scott’s Discovery Hut from 1903, which now stands somewhat apart from the station, was until recently surrounded by a fuel farm. The fickle nuclear reactor on Observation Hill has been shut down and shipped back to the United States, along with the thousands of tons of soil it contaminated during its short but eventful life. An open-air dump that once attracted Antarctic scavengers (skua and New Zealanders from Scott Base) has been excavated clean and shipped out as well. Raw sewage goes into a treatment plant instead of icicling directly into McMurdo Sound.

Most importantly, the station no longer disposes of its dead equipment and construction debris by dragging it onto the sea ice. Shamed by a nearby Greenpeace station that was active in the eighties, and constrained by the strict 1991 Madrid protocol to the Antarctic Treaty, McMurdo sends every particle of its trash back home for recycling or disposal. Sea ice and American garbage are Antarctica’s chief exports.

There are plans for a greener and smaller McMurdo. The NSF is pushing for appropriations that would let them build a modern facility and get rid of the chaos of Quonset huts and trailers that requires everyone to be constantly going outside. But the NSF faces the same structural problem as NASA: both agencies have to carve expensive capital projects out of a modest operating budget, in a political climate that is becoming hostile to science. And there is no senator from McMurdo to fight for Antarctic infrastructure.

I'm completely unsure as to how tourism works, but I do have mixed feelings about it. The environment down there is pristine and hardly touched, and tourists don't seem to respect it nor get the training we do to keep it the way it has been for millions of years. —buttgoblin_eater, I Am A Previous McMurdo Employee in Antarctica, Ask Me Anything!

Rodney gathers us in the ship’s auditorium for a briefing. Both the Americans and the New Zealanders have invited us to visit. Zodiac landings will be conducted with military precision, with four groups of twelve passengers sent on the half hour, and a final raft of ten picked volunteers from the crew. In a nod to geopolitical realities, the Russians will be taken directly to the gift shop.

On the other side of the continent, the question of how to handle visitors at research bases has become vexing. The boom in Antarctic tourism now brings forty thousand people a year across the Drake Passage to the Antarctic Peninsula. At Palmer station (population 40), smaller ships are allowed to come ashore, but kept out of the buildings where work is done. Larger ships aren't allowed to land at all. Instead, volunteers from the base come aboard to brief the passengers and awkwardly sell souvenirs in the ship’s bar. Palmer handles about a dozen ships and over a thousand visitors every summer, sometimes on consecutive days, and the staff there feels the pressure.

Things are easier in the Ross Sea. This year only two ships—the Shokalskiy and its sister ship the Khromov—will visit this side of Antarctica, bringing about a hundred visitors. There are never going to be cruises here in any numbers. The trip takes too long and cannot be made comfortable. The same rounded bottom that keeps the Shokalskiy from snagging on sea ice makes it roll like crazy in open water. On a regular cruise ship, thirty degrees of roll sends grand pianos smashing into the walls, and leads to refunds, incident reports and investigations. The Shokalskiy rolls to thirty degrees every four seconds, back and forth, all the way across the Southern Ocean. A few times a day the ship tilts past forty degrees, the angle at which the grippy foam placemats on every surface release their hold on a coffee mug. And at least twice during the voyage, we roll past fifty degrees . At that point it makes more sense to try to stand on the walls than the floor.

Rodney says there is no cost-effective way to build a new passenger ship that could cruise the Ross Sea. The Russian charters are marginally profitable, but they are getting old, and are probably not worth overhauling. Few people have five weeks and tens of thousands of dollars to spend on a trip that can't even guarantee them a glimpse of their destination. The ban on heavy fuel oil, strict limits on the numbers of people who can land, ice safety requirements, and outrageous weather mean you will never see a Carnival cruise ship at McMurdo. And that’s for the best.

The only way tourists might come to the Ross Sea in numbers would be by air, but the memory of the 1979 crash, when an Air New Zealand plane flew into the side of Mt. Erebus, is too painful. There’s still visible wreckage on the volcano. Once the Russian ships are gone, the only people touring the Ross Sea will be dignitaries flown in by the various national programs, one-off charters, and the occasional mad sailor.

Rodney puts on his stern face for the briefing. We are guests of the National Science Foundation, who have volunteered to show us around. McMurdo is a working base. That means we will not wander, we will not stop, we will not stray from the route, and we won't touch anything. He repeats that twice.

Early in the voyage I took umbrage at the infantilizing, schoolmasterish tone of these briefings. But several landings have made me a believer in Rodney’s approach. Our passengers, mostly retired engineers with their reluctant spouses, thrive on structure. They have a tendency to wander (albeit at low speed) and an almost touching capacity for misadventure once ashore.

Rodney stops for questions.

No, we are not going to see any animals, except for American scientists. There may be bathroom breaks, but it’s better to go on the ship. No, we may not walk the four kilometers to the New Zealand base. There will be a second series of Zodiac landings in the afternoon, and the people from Scott Base will come give us a ride in their own vehicles. No, he does not know the current temperature and wind speed. This is Antarctica. Dress accordingly. Wear your gumboots. You will get coffee and a snack. Remember to say “thank you” and wipe your feet.

The courteous Russians have hoisted an American flag, which the wind is trying to send back to New Zealand. Like blasting your car defroster on a cold day, wind is the price you pay for ice removal in Antarctica. Anywhere there are bare rocks, you'll find unspeakable gales keeping them that way. At McMurdo, the wind pours off the ice cap, down the glaciers, and along the Ross Ice Shelf, retracing Scott’s route to the pole in reverse. The early explorers, eager for any spot that offered an ice-free landing, found themselves building huts in some of the windiest places on earth.

McMurdo station is sheltered by a ridge line, but the ship is fully exposed. Angry little waves are forming in the few hundred meters of open water between us and the sea ice. We climb into Zodiac rafts from a metal stairway and huddle together, six to a side. Every time the raft hits a wave, the spray freezes on our clothing in a matte white shell. I arrive on shore covered in a carapace of ice. It cracks off easily, like the chocolate from a Klondike bar, and to my surprise I am much more comfortable being frozen than I would have been getting wet.

McMurdo dispatch has asked us to land at 'Sausage Point', which appears nowhere on the detailed Russian charts of the harbor. Like so much about McMurdo, the explanation turns up later in Big Dead Place:

A few tons of sausage buried in the ground during a previous era had been discovered by a Fleet-Ops operator who was drilling into the earth in preparation for a new building down by the sea ice. With the drill he struck a noxious pocket of primeval sausage slime that squirted onto his face, searing his eye with a swift yellow infection that puffed up half his face and put him out of commission for about a week. The earth-sausage mixture was excavated from the frozen ground and dumped in piles beside the road, where a squad of GAs [general assistants] was dispatched into the feeding swarm of skuas to separate the meat from the rock and throw it into triwalls that we banded up and loaded in milvans to be exported to the United States.

Today Sausage Point is an unremarkable bar of gravel not far from the ice pier. This curious piece of infrastructure, a large muddy rectangle built up over months by pouring layers of seawater over a mesh of steel cables, is the main entry point for cargo to the station. In the summer they do their best to insulate it with protective coats of dirt.

Every three years or so, despite the best efforts of the Americans, the wind and tides deal the ice pier a mortal blow, and the station has to request a waiver from the EPA to drag the pier’s broken corpse out to sea, where it melts and deposits its steel cables on the long-suffering ocean bottom.





====== 2748 ========

CAR ALARMS DON'T WORK. WHY ARE THEY SO COMMON?

Moreover, a blaring alarm might scare off a first-time joyrider, but they’re a non-issue for most professional thieves, who can clip a few wires and silence an alarm with ease. Indeed, one 1997 analysis found that cars with alarms “show no overall reduction in theft losses.”

Worse, car alarms may be affecting the health of the people around them when they go off. A report from Transportation Alternatives, a bicycle-advocacy organization, estimated that New York’s car alarms lead to about $400 to $500 million per year in “public-health costs, lost productivity, decreased property value, and diminished quality of life.” An estimate from an organization whose stated goal is “to reclaim New York City's streets from the automobile” should be taken with a grain of salt, but the point still stands that car-alarm sounds are stress-inducing and sleep-interrupting.

So if car alarms don’t work, how did they become ubiquitous in the first place? While the first car alarm was developed about a century ago and more or less resembles the alarms still in use today, the technology didn’t become truly widespread until the ‘60s and ‘70s, a time when, according to Phillips, neighbors might have been more likely to come to the aid of a besieged vehicle. Over time, though, people grew to ignore them, especially in the ‘80s and ‘90s, when urban crime rates increased and even more drivers started installing them. From around that time, there is even an account of a thief using a siren to cover up the sound of a car’s windows getting shattered. Nowadays, the streets are still teeming with older cars whose loud, obnoxious anti-theft measures reflect the eras during which they were built.

Today, very few cars roll out of factories equipped with car alarms. For example, a spokesperson for Toyota, currently the world’s largest automaker, says that alarms are not standard in their cars. (Currently, the federal government doesn’t require carmakers to take many anti-theft precautions, other than mandating that they differentiate the key combinations for different vehicles and mark various parts of their cars with vehicle identification numbers.)

That said, many drivers today still elect to purchase car alarms separately from aftermarket vendors, so they are not exactly dying off. Further, one of the car-security experts I spoke to told me that most alarms are purchased aftermarket, only to email me shortly afterward saying that he actually wasn’t sure if they were being installed in factories—demonstrating a confusion about alarms’ provenance that does not bode well for ridding the world of them.

Another thing keeping them around is that they’re cheap. At their cheapest they cost about $20 to $30, which is far less expensive than the more-sophisticated immobilization systems that are built into most cars today. Those can cost around $500, and make sure that the engine won’t start unless a vehicle’s key is inserted. (Digital chips are embedded into these keys, which is why many car keys are so expensive to replace.)

====== 2749 ========

THE FEMINIST STILETTO? THE HISTORY, AND THE FUTURE, OF THE HIGH-HEELED SHOE

T he point is to bounce, just a little. That’s the shoes’ way of telling you—a little wobble, a little give—that all is well: that the shock of your footfall, heelfloortoe, heelfloortoe, is being absorbed. Dolly Singh, the CEO of the shoe design firm Thesis Couture, is explaining this as I walk in a prototype version of footwear that has thus far been, due to limitations that are only partially technological in nature, pretty much impossible to imagine: shoes that are at once extremely high and relatively comfortable to wear. “What you should be feeling is, hopefully, a lot less pinch in the front than you normally do in 4-inch heels,” Singh tells me. “Because of this arch-support area”—she points toward the sole of the model I’m wearing—“it’s supposed to push your weight back towards your heel.” Related Stories All the Heels: Claire Underwood and the Case of the Stay-Put Stiletto

The Perma-Pump: Jurassic World's Silliest Character

What Does It Mean to Wear Heels? You know what? It does. Or, at least, walking in a pair of Thesis stilettos—whose shanks, and heels, are constructed mostly of dense, slightly flexible polymer (“ballistics-grade,” Thesis’s marketing literature points out)—minimized the reflex that walking in heels normally produces in me: the need to adjust my limbs and my overall self to compensate for my unnaturally raised foot. The shoes I’m wearing, Singh told me, are only about 70 percent completed, design-wise; still, even at the prototype stage, you feel that cushion and that give and that reassuring little bounce. You feel the shock of your walk being eased. You definitely would not run in these shoes, in the manner of Carrie Bradshavian fantasy; you could, however, very reasonably walk in them. At least for, you know, a little while. Singh, 37, is a former recruiter at SpaceX, Elon Musk’s rocket engineering firm whose offices in Hawthorne, CA, consist largely of hangar and factory space. She spent much of her time on that job walking—“about 3 to 4 miles a day,” she recalls—on hard floors that were particularly ill-suited to the wearing of heels. She wore them anyway: Working in an industry dominated by men, she appreciated the few extra inches of height the shoes gave her. (And also: the sense of professionalism, and of femininity.) It didn’t take much research to realize that many women, every day, live their own version of that compromise. So, when Singh left SpaceX, she recruited some of its employees—among them, yes, a rocket scientist and a former astronaut—to help solve a problem that is generally not treated as a problem at all so much as an unfortunate fact of ladylife: the insult and occasionally the injury that can come from the wearing of heels.

S tripped of their symbolism, heels are, simply, shoes like any other: objects that help to separate the human foot, which is inconveniently soft, from the surface of the earth, which is inconveniently hard. And yet, of course, heels do—heels are—so much more than mere footwear. In their teetering heights, they make audacious assumptions about fashion and feminism and professionalism and sex and privilege and power and its opposite, and about the way all those things, in the early 21st century, chafe against each other. Heels at once lift women up and hold them—hold us—back. And, of course: We choose, day by day and week by week and Special Occasion by Special Occasion, to let them do it. Heels are both a claim of femininity and a test of it. They are the bindings of the willfully bound. “I hate high heels, more than anything.” - Cara Delevingne In that sense, while Thesis’s comfortable heel represents a small feat, so to speak, it also represents a very large one: a counterargument to a longstanding assumption—rendered in fashion as well as in many other areas of the culture—that womanhood is defined, in part, by the ability to bear pain. Not just in the sense of “suffering for beauty,” as the saying goes, but in the deeper sense that the collision of those two things is integral to feminine experience. It’s an assumption that helps to explain why stilettos have become such quintessential symbols of womanhood; it also helps to explain why they are, as those symbols, so deeply unsettling. Heels hurt. They slow their wearers down. They occasionally trip them up.

What Thesis’s work suggests, though, is that the technology of the heel, the manufactured thing that takes its name from the natural one, could change the politics of the heel. The comfortable stiletto Thesis is promising is one that, simply because it hurts its wearers less, also demands less of them—and, by extension, of all of us. Thesis is certainly not the first company to claim to have made a comfortable heel. What makes its approach unique, though, is that it isn’t relying on low heel heights or thick heel widths or wide toe boxes or excessive interior padding—the stuff of dancing shoes and Naturalizers and their ilk—to improve its heels’ comfort levels. (“Comfort shoe,” indeed, is something of an epithet around Thesis’s sleek L.A. office.) Instead, the company reconsidered the architectural framework of the shoe. The people Singh recruited, from SpaceX and elsewhere, to advise Thesis in doing that work included Hans Koenigsmann, the (yes) rocket scientist. And Garrett Reisman, the (yes) former astronaut. And Matt Thomas, the former director of mechanical engineering at Oculus VR, the (now-Facebook-owned) virtual reality firm. And Andy Goldberg, an orthopedic surgeon. And Francis Bitonti, a designer—he created that iconic, 3-D-printed gown for the burlesque star Dita Von Teese—who has become an expert at using algorithms to ensure garments’ fit. Singh also brought on Amanda Parkes, a fashion technologist, to ensure that the shoes the company created would be stylish as well as comfortable. Not running-shoe-comfortable, to be extra-clear, but for-a-high-heel-comfortable. “What we’re fundamentally trying to do,” Singh explains, “is make a stiletto that feels like a wedge.” To achieve that, the team first replaced the thin, metal spike that supports the typical heel with one made of that ballistics-grade polymer. Just as importantly, though, they played around with the shank of the shoe—the base of the sole, the structure that does the all-important work of arch support—in order to distribute the wearer’s weight toward the heel and thus away from the ball of the foot, the source of so much orthopedic pain. Thesis’s S-curved shanks lead to shoes that concentrate only about 50 percent of the wearer’s weight there—an improvement from the current industry average of 80 percent.

The whole thing was much more complicated than Singh first anticipated. “I came from rockets and VR,” she notes. “I thought that six months after I started this project, I’d have the most amazing shoes that the planet has ever seen. And here I am, three years later—and I’m almost finished.” It’s appropriate, though, that creating those shoes would transform from a “project” to a broader purpose: The appeal of heels—not just of sky-high stilettos, but also of their less audacious cousins—lies, most broadly, in their ability to function not just as footwear, but also as small, wearable symbols of mankind’s tendency toward restless ambition. Heels have emerged from roughly the same impulse that led to cathedrals and skyscrapers and, yes, rockets: our desire to be taller, and grander, and generally more than we once were. “You never find wonderful and great things on the ground, but instead placed on high, to fill others with wonder and reverence,” Arcangela Tarabotti, a Venetian nun, argued in the 17th century. She was defending a very early version of the stiletto. “The core of my work is dedicated not to pleasing women but to pleasing men.” - Christian Louboutin So you can ask why heels, given all that they demand of their wearers, continue to be so popular—and, indeed, to be such easy tokens of femininity, used in everything from baked goods to office products to houses of worship. You can point out all the compromises, large and small, that must be made when a person—usually, but not always, a female person—buys, and wears, and navigates the world upon, a pair of upthrust metal spikes. You can say (as Carrie Bradshaw, that character who derived so hefty a portion of her identity from her Manolo Blahniks, might have): I couldn’t help but wonder … What puts the “I” in “high heels”?

But to do all that, fashion being what it is, you also have to acknowledge all the things we women gain, or are told that we gain, from the wearing of heels, aesthetically and professionally and otherwise. Thesis Couture plans to include just 1,500 pairs of shoes—retail price: $925 each—in its inaugural line, coming out this fall. At a recent soft-launch event, in New York, Singh announced to the assembled crowd that they could add their names to the waiting list of people who have expressed advance interest in purchasing one of those pairs. The list, Singh told me, currently has more than 10,000 names. So, yes: Let’s talk about the “I” in “high heels.” But first let’s talk about the we. Y ouTube, in its capacity as a massive, user-generated advice column, has many tips on offer about the best ways to walk in heels. The mega-vlogger Michelle Phan’s “How to Master the High Heel” tutorial—3.5 million views so far—provides an appropriately step-by-step approach. “Your first assignment when walking in heels,” she says, “is to find a straight line and follow it.” Phan pays particular attention to the distinct challenges presented by cobblestones (“for every step you take, you need to have a general awareness of where your heel is being placed”), and grass (“keep your weight on your toes”), and stairs (descending them, in particular, “it’s all about keeping a steady pace and a firm placement on each step”—but also, just to be safe, “use the handrail”). Phan also offers a more generalized tip for effective heel-ing: “Putting on your favorite upbeat song will help you get in the mood as you practice your walk.”

Phan’s tips are joined, and occasionally contradicted, by thousands more. Kassandra Brooks reiterates the importance of preparation when it comes to walking in heels: “Seriously, girls: practice, practice, practice!” she coaches. Victor Chu, a shoe designer who teaches a class about how to walk in heels, recommends that you “engage your abs—this gives you poise and control”—and “walk heel to toe, which transfers impact to the leg instead of the ball of the foot.” (Also, “relax your hips and knees so you’ll be fluid and graceful.”) Pooja from Glamrs.com recommends swiping deodorant onto the feet to minimize the friction of heels. (Ellebangs, for the record, says that the same blister-preventing effect can be achieved with baby powder.) “If [the shoes are] a little bit loose, you can always shove toilet paper into the front,” the model Cassandra Bankson points out. And Buzzfeed’s “ULTIMATE HIGH HEEL SURVIVAL GUIDE” offers, in addition to advice concerning Moleskin and gel inserts and Band-Aids, some broader coaching: “Don’t give up!”

The Heel Advice Industrial Complex—a collective composed mostly of women generously helping each other, but more broadly of people trying to make a side-door profit from the large and steadily expanding U.S. shoe industry—owes its size, and its longevity, to the fact that none of its tips have thus far succeeded in keeping their own promise: that heels can function, effectively, as footwear. “A shoe, like a building—or, on a much smaller scale, anything that supports or distributes weight in some way—requires architectural consideration,” Samantha Cataldo, who brought the traveling “Killer Heels” exhibition to the Currier Museum in Manchester, NH, told me. The discomfort of high heels—the fact that they ultimately fail at the job of being functional—is evidence, in that sense, of technological failure. And so is the fact that heels tend to make that most basic of human activities—walking—a little bit precarious. “Stilettos,” in particular: Their name comes from the Italian for “dagger,” but their shape suggests a broader menace. Heels that are both skinny and sky-scraping are the things that, in 1993, led Naomi Campbell to trip, dramatically, on Vivienne Westwood’s runway, the victim of the designer’s Super Elevated Gillie heels. They are the things that, in 2013, felled Jennifer Lawrence as she took to the stage to accept her Academy Award. They are the things that, in an episode of Sex and the City, found Carrie walking in a friend’s fashion show, swaggering in a pair of stilettos ... until, in short order, she tripped on them. There Carrie was, channeling Naomi: splayed on the runway, brought low by the very footwear she’d trusted to raise her up. It’s telling, too, that Sarah Jessica Parker, a real-life lover of heels, reportedly suffers from foot-related health problems. So does her fellow heelaholic, Victoria Beckham. (This is another of Thesis Couture’s main selling points: Its shoes are shots against the prevailing assumption that, as Singh puts it, “you get frumpier shoes, or you’re going to get frumpier feet.”) A study conducted in 2014 by the American Podiatric Medical Association found 38 percent of women saying they’d wear a shoe they liked even if it caused discomfort; another 71 percent said they already have a heel-related foot ailment.

Heels, indeed, are thought to be the cause of much of the roughly $3.5 billion that women in the United States spend each year on foot surgeries. The desire to wear them comfortably has led some women to get botulism—Botox—injected into their feet: Dr. Scholl meeting Dr. Frankenstein. That same desire is the source of “Haglund’s deformity,” a painful condition that has been given the revealing nickname of “pump bump,” and also of bunions and hammertoes and many more extremely preventable podiatric ailments. Each year, thousands of news articles are produced reiterating the health risks of heels. Each year, they are ignored. “Women,” the podiatrist Michael Liebow marveled to The Washington Post, “will wear their high-heeled shoes until their feet are bloody stumps.”

T he extremes of effort women put into the wearing of high-heeled shoes speak to something so obvious—or at least to something so widely assumed—that it seems silly even to specify: that heels are, in addition to everything else, sexy. When Beyoncé sings, in “Countdown,” “I’m all up under him like it’s cold, winter time / All up in the kitchen in my heels, dinner time” … it is extremely clear what she really means by “dinner.” Women wear heels, in part, to reap the benefits of their ability to lengthen the leg and firm the calves and protrude the pelvis and affect the walk in Darwinianly dutiful ways. Heels function, the University of Portsmouth psychologist Paul Morris and his co-authors suggested in a 2013 paper, as “supernormal stimuli”: Walking in them exaggerates “some sex-speciﬁc elements of female gait,” encouraging “greater pelvic rotation, increased vertical motion at the hip, shorter strides, and higher number of steps per minute.” Kara Gordon / The Atlantic That many women—on behalf, generally, of many men—seem to understand all this intuitively is the reason for articles like Cosmopolitan’s “20 Heels Men Find So Freaking Hot.” But here’s another thing—a related thing, and also a deeply conflicting thing—that many women seem to understand: that heels are, especially in the various knowledge-work industries, the expected foundation of a woman’s professional uniform. They are a much less comfortable, but equally conformist, version of the male suit-and-tie: a price of entry to a C-suite or a Senate office or any of the other places traditionally occupied by men. (See: Sheryl Sandberg and Marissa Mayer, TED-talking and speech-giving and otherwise boss-ladying in soaring stilettos. See also: Dolly Singh, walking miles a day in factories and in hangars and in heels.)

Which means that failing to wear heels, the logic goes, might even hold women’s careers back. As Marie Claire put it in a 2013 article about the sartorial—and professional—pitfalls of “casual Friday”: It gets tricky with shoes, especially flats, which for many women are a casual Friday mainstay. I’ve interviewed countless women CEOs, founders, and top-level execs over the years—not a single one in flats, which exude a kind of demure good-girl quality that rarely telegraphs power. If you’re ambitious, with your eyes steadily fixed on a corner office, you’d do well to save them for weekends and stick with pumps or kitten heels. So. Heels as power. Heels as sex, co-opted in the name of professionalism. Heels as, in all that, ambition. Avery Jessup, the hyper-ambitious Fox News reporter on 30 Rock, summarized the thinking perfectly: “Flats,” she declared, “are for quitters.” RuPaul would agree. Here’s another irony, though: The shoes women wear in the service of both professional expectations and sexual ones, shoes that at once celebrate and underplay the murky connections between the two, are often not really respected by … men in the workplace. The shoes that can bring women up to the level, physically and otherwise, of their male colleagues can also end up diminishing them. That might be because of incidental features—“nothing is more aggravating than listening high heels clicking on the tile at work in the morning,” the Twitter user David Schenk recently [sic] put it—but it is mostly because of high heels’ professional paradox: the fact that the default footwear of corporate conformity is so stridently suggestive of sex. According to the researchers Raj Persaud and Adrian Furnham, discussing Paul Morris’s paper, “Female baboons with a larger than normal swelling of the bottom, associated with the sexually receptive period of their cycle, arouse greater sexual interest in males. High heels similarly exaggerate the sex-speciﬁc aspects of the female walk, which could cause sexual arousal in males.” Taken to its extreme, the paradox accuses heels of emphasizing the body at the expense of the mind. At a tech conference in 2013, Jorge Cortell, the CEO of a healthcare startup, noticed a fellow attendee standing in a pair of very tall stilettos. He snapped a picture of the shoes. He then tweeted the picture of the shoes with the caption, “Event supposed to be for entrepreneurs, VCs, but these heels (I’ve seen several like this) … WTF?” He concluded his observation with a hashtag: #brainsnotrequired.”

Cortell’s creep-shot went viral; that is mostly because its caption rightly made people mad, but it is also because its assumptions struck a much deeper nerve. The tweet harkened back, on the one hand, to the Puritans of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, who tried women “who used footwear as an entrapment and seduction of men” for, yep, witchcraft. But it also reflected a more modern pitfall: the idea that heels are, essentially, a form of cheating—a strategy for compensating not just for a relatively small stature, but for a relatively small intellect. Which is not, generally speaking, a strategy that is available to men (many of whom would probably enjoy being a few inches taller). Thus: heel-shaming. Sole-policing. #brainsnotrequired-ing. “I’ve overheard conversations at academic gatherings,” the University of Exeter professor Francesca Stavrakopoulou wrote in 2014, “in which female colleagues have been described as ‘power-dressing’—coded language used to accuse a woman of asserting herself in overly ambitious ways.” “Women will wear their high-heeled shoes until their feet are bloody stumps.” - podiatrist Michael Liebow That tension—women, dressed down for the crime of dressing up—is on the one hand simply another aspect of the broader catch-22 that any members of a media-driven society must navigate every day: Look good, but don’t you dare be caught trying too hard to look good. But heels represent a particular strain of that paradox: Many men, though they may well love what heels do to the female form—there are of course many more than Cosmo’s 20 pairs of stilettos out there that men find so freaking hot—also seem to think that heels are, simply, silly. Steve Martin mocks them via his musical bit on “cruel heels.” The journalist Martin Daubney, after a day spent wearing six-inch stilettos, notes that “I finally understand why women say ‘it’s torture in these heels.’” One of the heel-try-ers in Buzzfeed’s “Men Try Heels For A Day” video complains, “This is a fucking mess—how am I supposed to walk in this?” Another declares, having gone through only a portion of his stunt-stipulated day in elevated footwear: “My thoughts on heels are very much the same as they were in the beginning: that they’re stupid.” His thoughts are, it turns out, part of a long-standing tradition when it comes to the gender dynamics of heels. In 1660, in one of his journal entries, the great diarist Samuel Pepys wrote, In the morning to my office, where, after I had drank my morning draft at Will’s with Ethell and Mr. Stevens, I went and told part of the excise money till twelve o’clock, and then called on my wife and took her to Mr. Pierces, she in the way being exceedingly troubled with a pair of new pattens, and I vexed to go so slow, it being late. Pattens—clogs, essentially, their wooden soles stacked upon inches-high metal rings—were one of the 17th century’s most popular forms of elevated shoe. Thus did Pepys and his wife join in a ritual that had been performed by many couples before, and that would be continued by many long after: a woman, struggling to walk in her high shoes; a man, struggling to disguise his annoyance at being slowed down.

A nd yet. And yet! Despite all of this—despite heels’ danger and discomfort, despite the tutting and the mocking and the difficulty walking … women keep buying heels. We keep wearing them. Reader: I keep wearing them! I, too, have dutifully pasted my DreamWalk® insoles into some bedazzled 3-inchers in preparation for a friend’s wedding. I, too, have tried to take Victor Chu’s advice to walk “fluidly and gracefully” in those shoes. I, too, have failed. The 3.5 million views Michelle Phan’s “How to Master the High Heel” tutorial has received since its posting in 2013 are signs of her overall popularity, sure, but they are evidence of something else, too: all the people out there who really, really want to achieve that mastery. “I think it is in our DNA as women to want to be peacocks and strut our stuff,” Tina Sloan, a longtime soap opera actor, put it. The “Killer Heels” exhibit at the Brooklyn Museum, in 2014, took visitors through a corridor whose walls were covered with Polaroids of women’s heel-clad feet. The images included Sharpie-scrawled captions the women had provided: single-word answers to the question of how the shoes made them feel. “Fierce,” read one. “Classic!” read another. “On fire,” read another. And also: “Wow!” “Cool.” “In charge.” “My thoughts on heels are very much the same as they were in the beginning: that they’re stupid.” - a guy, after a day spent wearing them So the answer to the why? of heels—why, in spite of everything, do women, by which I mean myself and maybe you, keep wearing them?—cannot simply be that heels are a commercial decision women make in the name of style. It’s much, much more complicated than that. Heels’ current desirability is the result of various cultural tautologies: They are attractive, basically, because we have told ourselves that they are. They are professional, basically, because we have decided that they are. They are what they are because of what we, all of us, are.

So the many factors at play in heels’ metonymic femininity make it extremely difficult to disentangle the Google search that leads people to Michelle Phan’s video from the conventional wisdom holding that heels, and specifically female bodies walking in heels, are hot. When Dita Von Teese announces that “heels and red lipstick will put the fear of God into people,” that may be the culmination of her own experience, but it is also the product of centuries’ worth of cultural input. So is the reality-star-turned-lifestyle-guru Kristin Cavallari’s decision to title her memoir Balancing in Heels. Heels are subject to all the assorted complexities that will be layered, parfait-like, onto any question of fashion. And yet the extremes they represent—the highs and lows, the aspiration and the acquiescence—make them especially apt as symbols for the current moment: one in which feminism’s various waves have evaporated, in some sense, into an air of possibility, and also of confusion. One that in many ways takes women’s equality for granted, and that in many others totally does not. One that is renavigating sex’s place in the workplace. One that is typified by a heel-clad Beyoncé—a wife and a mother and also pretty much the dictionary definition of “hot”—strutting onstage as the word “FEMINIST” flashes on a screen behind her. One that finds Mattel redesigning the feet of its Barbie dolls so that they are not permanently molded to accommodate heels.

It’s a moment that is unsure, basically, whether feminine footwear that evokes the swollen butts of baboons celebrates, in the end, empowerment or submission. “I do not improvise in heels. I improvise in sneakers. Why would I improvise in heels? It’s terrible.” - Amy Poehler And: It’s one that finds the wearing of heels—or, conversely, the non-wearing of them—representing much more of a choice than it did for those who came before. “Fashionable suffering is no longer obligatory as it was for our grandmothers,” Nancy Rexford, the author of Women’s Shoes in America: 1795 to 1930, puts it. “If a woman wears cruel shoes,” she adds, “we can be sure it is by choice.” And yet, of course, that “choice” will be informed by all the cultural and sexual and professional and sartorial expectations that can make shoes, symbolically as well as physically, uncomfortable. (Are heels sexist? Oh, totally. Or, well, maybe? How can you tell? (And also: Is makeup sexist? Or long hair? Leg-shaving? Bikini-waxing? Spanx?)) “It’s always seemed to me that the point was to be able to wear what you fucking well please, as I’m often quoted as saying,” Gloria Steinem explained. She continued, though: On the other hand, there are some symbols that were so forced on us in my youth that it’s hard for me to understand them as a free choice. Like girdles, garter belts, and very high heels that you can’t run in … but even if I felt internally uneasy, I don’t believe I ever was publicly critical of something another woman said she had freely chosen. So even Gloria Steinem, it seems, is a little confused about heels. Which is both reassuring and no help at all. The only thing clear at this point seems to be that heels, as symbols, require of the culture precisely what they require of their wearers: compromise. Carefulness. Step-by-step transactions. Heels give power and they take it. Michelle Phan chooses to buy stilettos; she works hard at walking in them; she gets confidence from wearing them. And yet her final piece of advice for wearing them on a night out is this: “Bring a pair of flats! And if you don’t have a pair of flats, get someone to carry you home!” Phan’s cheery tutorial cuts to video of her grinning as she perches upon the back of a gallant young gentleman. Together, they gallop off into the sunset, beautifully fused—two minds, two hearts, and one pair of functioning feet.

F urther complicating things is the fact that heels, pretty much throughout their history, have been designed by men. And men, in general, being the ones who will see the shoes but not wear them, tend to design heels with a focus on their aesthetics, rather than their ergonomics. Christian Louboutin, the moment’s reigning heel-maker, recently declared, without any apparent irony: “The core of my work is dedicated not to pleasing women but to pleasing men.” The stiletto, in particular—the shoe that serves, at this point, as the Platonic pump—co-evolved as an idea, the historian Elizabeth Semmelhack argues, with the invention of photography. Which was also, human nature being what it is, the rise of photographic pornography. The entrepreneurial pornographers of the 19th century clad their subjects in heeled shoes that would complement a woman’s legs as she laid and lounged, languidly and otherwise nakedly; the shoes’ presence in the photos reflected a desire, Semmelhack suggests, to prevent the models “from drifting into the allegorical realm.” (An airy goddess doesn’t wear heels; a regular, flesh-and-blood woman, however, might.) “I think it is in our DNA as women to want to be peacocks and strut our stuff.” - Tina Sloan, soap opera actor The images that arose from the collision of new technological capability and age-old human impulse served as formats for the ones that would come to permeate the culture later on—from advertisements (airbrushed pictures of women wearing little save for heels, used to sell everything from cars to stockings, to women as well as men) to the iconic “pin-ups” that would festoon the walls of so many bedrooms across the country. Those images did not, however, offer a format for actual footwear. Stilettos, as depicted in those commercial images, couldn’t yet exist as wearable, walkable footwear; it was not until the advent of modern steel production, in the 20th century, that functional versions could be fabricated. Only then—via the designer Roger Vivier, who would go on to liken his spindly, space-age-y shoes to “wearing dreams on one’s feet”—could the heels that had existed for so long as objects of male fantasy actually be worn by their putative consumers. Marilyn Monroe was, perhaps unwittingly, on to something when she declared, “I don’t know who invented high heels, but all women owe him a lot!”

Men’s heels, though, were also victims of a broader trend. “With the gradual rise of democracy and capitalism,” Valerie Steele, the director and chief curator of the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology, told me, “not only did high heels for men, but also color in clothing for men, jewelry, decoration, lace—all went out and became re-defined as being feminine rather than aristocratic.” Heels, because of that, “were now seen as effeminate: not acceptable for men to wear.” Indeed, when Napoléon crowned himself emperor in 1804, he made a point of wearing flats. The Napoleonic distaste for the heel endured, and expanded; it would be more than a century before men would dip their toes once more into heels, those “irrational,” “feminine” forms of footwear. Women, on the other hand—who would of course be dismissed as irrational regardless of what they put on their feet—continued, save for some dabbling in Classical-inspired flats in the early-18th century, to claim heels for themselves. The punishing paradox they represented back then—heels treated as both requirements for feminine beauty and evidence of feminine frivolity—will feel vaguely familiar today. As a New York Times article from 1871 (tellingly headlined “Make-believe Shoes”) proclaimed, Suffrage! Right to hold office! Show us first the woman who has independence and sense and taste enough to dress attractively and yet to walk down Fifth-avenue wearing … a show which does not destroy both her comfort and her gait. That mainstream dismissal of heels continued on into the 20th century—even as some men began experimenting with them again. In 1965, Time magazine announced that “somewhat alarmingly, teenage boys are taking to high heels.” Those boys would be imitated by, among others, John Travolta, catching Saturday Night Fever in high-heeled boots; and by David Bowie, strutting in his inches-high platforms; and by Prince, rocking stilettos; and by the members of KISS, whose elaborately heeled boots became anthemic to rocking and rolling all night/partying every day.

The men’s forays into elevated footwear, however, were fleeting, and aimed more at making a point than making an enduring style. For the most part, men-in-heels has been relegated to rodeos and drag shows. (Think, today, of the mockery recently leveled at former presidential candidate Marco Rubio when he stepped out on the campaign trail in inch-high boots.) No matter how much gender equality we claim to have attained as a culture—no matter how much of men’s fashion has become, in recent years, tighter and brighter and more flamboyant than it used to be—heels have remained, by default and by design, womenswear. And they have, in that, retained some of the Enlightenment-era dismissals of feminine fashion as impractical and, indeed, irrational. My thoughts on heels are very much the same as they were in the beginning: that they’re stupid. “Why do we wear them? They’re so painful. And pointless, really. You know, I really would like to urge everyone to stop it. Just stop it.” - Emma Thompson That is partly because of Roger Vivier and his introduction, in the 1950s, of the stilettos that managed to be at once futuristic and retrograde. The new shoe represented technological progress, via the thin heel of extruded steel that Vivier referred to as “the needle”; it also, however, with its height and its relative skimpiness, represented a new form of conservatism. Here was the cult of domesticity—the stuff born of Victorian ideals, the stuff that produced the ennui that Betty Friedan would later bemoan—neatly embodied in footwear. Here was Cinderella’s glass slipper, tiny and magical and impossible, rendered as sartorial expectation. Here was a design that was decently well suited for wear upon the carpets and linoleums and constraints of the home; here was a design that, tellingly, was not well suited for navigating the world beyond.

Stilettos, born of the porn of the 19th century, thus in the 20th adopted another dimension of male desire: the wish for loyal housewives—for women who would always be home, waiting for you and, indeed, on you. Because in those shoes, they couldn’t do much else. The stiletto briefly went out of style in the ’60s and ’70s, its dainty lines replaced with bold, stacked heels and very high platforms; by the ’80s, however, it returned—and came back taller than ever. And there it stayed. There was Tina Turner, icon-ing in stilettos. There was Madonna. There was Melanie Griffith, swapping sneakers for pumps as Tess McGill arrived—in every sense of the word—in Manhattan. There, a little later, was Julia Roberts, in Vivian Ward’s thigh-high—and toothpick-heeled—patent-leather boots. There was Naomi Campbell, in her Vivienne Westwoods. There was Jennifer Jason Leigh, whose Hedra Carlson took the “little dagger” on her feet to its murderously logical conclusion. There was Carrie Bradshaw, running on heels and then tripping on them. And there was Big, finally, proposing to her not with a ring, but with a diamond-encrusted pair of Manolos. And there, too, today, are Annalise Keating and Alicia Florrick and Claire Underwood and Selina Meyer, removing their heels and rubbing their aching feet after long days of bosslady-ing. There is Anne Hathaway’s Andy Sachs, the heroine of The Devil Wears Prada, telegraphing her (d)evolution as a character through her willingness, and unwillingness, to wear stilettos. There is Hathaway’s Catwoman, in a scene in 2012’s The Dark Knight Rises, asked by a male adversary, “Do those heels make it hard to walk?” There she is, kicking him from behind and purring in reply, “I don’t know. Do they?”

T hey do. Just a little bit, but they do! Heels’ failures as engineered footwear are precisely the reason Thesis Couture has more than 10,000 names on its waiting list: If heels can finally be made walkable—not in a “standing around at a cocktail party” way, but in a legitimate, “living one’s life” way—then that changes their politics. “The high heel is a mutable object—it is something that we simply assign meaning to,” Semmelhack, the shoe historian, told me. And if you can take the hobble out of the heel, that in some sense reverses the meaning that hundreds’ of years worth of history have assigned: heels as symbols, essentially, of a woman’s copious capacity—and, indeed, a woman’s willingness—to bear pain. And so while Thesis Couture’s promise of comfortable stilettos—informed by an intimate knowledge of what it means and feels like to walk in heels—is premised on fashion, it is rooted, too, in feminism. (There’s a reason Thesis nicknamed its first lookbook the “THE BOOK of LEGENDS,” and a reason, too, that each of the 21 designs it presents—the “Amelia Earhart,” the “Hua Mulan,” the “Serena Williams”—is named for a pioneering woman.) Thesis, through its emphasis on ergonomics and engineering, is fighting against the Louboutinian logic that has been with us, in some form, for centuries: the assumption that heels are feminine not in spite of all they demand of their wearers, but because of it. Kara Gordon / The Atlantic Singh and her colleagues, in other words, are hoping that their own contribution to the Heel Advice Industrial Complex will be to render all the tips and tricks that Michelle Phan and her fellow advice-offerers offer, finally, obsolete. The Thesis shoe is unsatisfied with Who What Wear’s advice, say, to “tape your third and fourth toes (counting from the big toe) together—we recommend nude medical tape for a low-profile look, but Scotch tape works in a pinch—to alleviate pain in the ball of your foot.” And with America’s Next Top Model’s J. Alexander’s suggestion that, when in heels, “whenever and wherever you can, sit, sit, sit!” (and then: “cross your legs so that all can see your beautiful, fashion-forward, painful footwear”). And it is outright indignant with Bustle’s conclusion that, if “stretching out your shoes” and “using Moleskin” isn’t enough to make walking in heels comfortable, then perhaps you should simply “change the way you walk.”

====== 2750 ========

WHY DO LIVING THINGS DIE?

The inside of every cell in our body is like a crowded city, filled with tracks, transports, libraries, factories, power plants, and garbage disposal units. The city’s workers are protein machines, which metabolize food, take out the garbage, or repair DNA. Cargo is moved from one place to another by molecular machines that have been observed walking on two legs along protein tightropes. As these machines go about their business, they are surrounded by thousands of water molecules, which randomly crash into them a trillion times a second. This is what physicists euphemistically call “thermal motion.” Violent thermal chaos would be more apt.

How any well-meaning molecular machine could do good work under such intolerable circumstances is puzzling. Part of the answer is that the protein machines of our cells, like tiny ratchets, turn the random energy they receive from water bombardment into the very directed motion that makes cells work. They turn chaos into order.

Johner Images / Getty

Four years ago, I published a book called Life’s Ratchet, which explains how molecular machines create order in our cells. My main concern was how life avoids a descent into chaos. To my great surprise, soon after the book was published, I was contacted by researchers who study biological aging. At first I couldn’t see the connection. I knew nothing about aging except for what I had learned from being forced to observe the process in my own body.

Then it dawned on me that by emphasizing the role of thermal chaos in animating molecular machines, I encouraged aging researchers to think more about it as a driver of aging. Thermal motion may seem beneficial in the short run, animating our molecular machines, but could it be detrimental in the long run? After all, in the absence of external energy input, random thermal motion tends to destroy order.

This tendency is codified in the second law of thermodynamics, which dictates that everything ages and decays: Buildings and roads crumble; ships and rails rust; mountains wash into the sea. Lifeless structures are helpless against the ravages of thermal motion. But life is different: Protein machines constantly heal and renew their cells.

In this sense, life pits biology against physics in mortal combat. So why do living things die? Is aging the ultimate triumph of physics over biology? Or is aging part of biology itself?

Also in Physics When the Heavens Stopped Being Perfect By Alan Lightman I have in my hand a little book titled The Starry Messenger (Sidereus Nuncius in its original Latin), written by the Italian mathematician and scientist Galileo Galilei in 1610. There were 550 books in the first printing of Messenger. One...READ MORE





If there is a founding document for the modern study of aging, it may be An Unsolved Problem of Biology by Sir Peter Medawar. Medawar was a Nobel Prize-winning biologist, as well as a witty and sometimes scathing writer of essays and books. In An Unsolved Problem of Biology, Medawar pitted two explanations for aging against each other: On one hand was “innate senescence,” or aging as biological necessity. On the other was the “wearing out” theory of aging—aging due to the “accumulated effects of recurrent stress.” The former is biology, the latter physics. Innate senescence implies that aging and death are dictated by evolution to make space for younger generations.

The idea of innate senescence suggests that we have a master clock inside of us that counts down the hours of our lives. There are indeed clocks like this. The most famous are telomeres—little snippets of DNA which get shortened each time a cell divides. The study of telomeres has been controversial: It is not clear if telomere shortening is a cause or an effect of aging. Telomeres do not shorten in constant amounts—while there is a minimum amount that comes off at each cell division, they will shorten at a faster rate if the cell has been damaged through other means. Many researchers now believe that telomere shortening is more of a symptom of aging than its cause.

Life pits biology against physics in mortal combat.

Medawar himself argued for the “wearing out” theory—the physics viewpoint on aging. First, he said, it is difficult to see how natural selection could have selected for senescence, because we don’t reproduce in our elderly years and natural selection is driven by differences in reproduction rates. Second, it is unnecessary to actively kill off older individuals to keep an aging population small. Random chance can accomplish this on its own.

Medawar argued that a biological master clock for aging is unnecessary. To illustrate why, he pointed to a decidedly non-living example: Test tubes in a lab. Assume test tubes break from time to time by accident. To keep the total number of test tubes constant, a fresh supply is purchased every week. After a few months pass, how many young test tubes are there, and how many are old? If we assume that the probability of accidental breakage is independent of age (a sensible assumption), and plot the number of test tubes versus the age of each test tube, we get a concave, exponential decay curve that looks like a child’s slide. This “life curve” has a steep drop at the top, and it’s flat on the bottom.

Peter Hoffmann

Although the test tubes are not aging (old test tubes do not break easier than young ones), the constant probability of breakage diminishes the number of old test tubes significantly. Now, suppose that humans, like test tubes, were equally likely to die at any age. The number of old people would still be small. Probability would catch up with us eventually.

The trouble is, life curves plotted for human populations do not look like Medawar’s test tube curve. They start out rather flat at the top, with a small number of losses at young age (except at birth). Then at some age, the curve suddenly drops. To obtain such a curve, we need to add another assumption to Medawar’s test tube model: Test tubes must accumulate tiny cracks over time, increasing their risk of breaking. In other words, they must age. If the risk of breaking increases exponentially, we get something called the Gompertz-Makeham law. This law matches human life curves quite well. In the language of test tubes, the law includes both a constant and an exponentially increasing risk of breakage. This exponential increase has been observed in humans, for whom the risk of death doubles every seven years after age 30.

What is the origin of this exponential increase? Thermal motion is not the only source of damage in our cells. Some regular processes, especially metabolism in our mitochondria, are not perfect and tend to produce radicals—highly reactive atoms that can damage DNA. Together, thermal noise and free radical production constitute a background risk of cell damage. The damage is usually repaired, or, if a cell is deemed beyond repair, the cell is induced to commit suicide—a process called apoptosis. Usually, a stem cell replaces it.

Eliminating cancer or Alzheimer’s disease would improve lives, but it would not make us immortal, or even allow us to live significantly longer.

Eventually, though, the damage accumulates. DNA can only be repaired when there is an intact replica to copy. Damaged proteins unfold and start sticking to each other, forming aggregates. The cell’s defense and apoptosis mechanism become compromised. “Senescent cells” start accumulating in organs, leading to inflammation. Stem cells are not activated, or become depleted. Mitochondria become damaged, reducing energy supply in cells, which is needed to power the molecular machines repairing DNA. It’s a vicious cycle—or, in technical jargon, a positive feedback loop. Mathematically, this positive feedback loop leads to an exponential increase in risk, which can explain the shape of human life curves.

The scientific literature is full of explanations for aging: Protein aggregation, DNA damage, inflammation, telomeres. But these are the biological responses to an underlying cause, which is accumulating damage through thermal and chemical degradation. To prove that thermal damage effects really do cause aging, we would need to observe humans living with different internal temperatures. This is not possible—but there are organisms that can be subjected to various internal temperatures without immediate harm. In a recent paper in Nature, a team at Harvard Medical School determined the temperature dependence of aging in the roundworm C. elegans, a simple and well-studied creature. They found that the shape of the survival curve remained essentially the same, but it was stretched or contracted as the temperature was changed. Creatures raised at lower temperature enjoyed a stretched survival curve, while worms exposed to higher temperature lived shorter lives.

Kasman / Pixabay

What’s more, the stretch factor depended on temperature according to a pattern familiar to every scientist: It was the same as the dependence of the rate of chemical bond breakage on the temperature of random thermal motion.



I’ve even seen a potential connection between bond breaking and human aging in my own lab. When I first encountered the Gompertz-Makeham law, it looked oddly familiar. In my lab we study the survival probability of single molecular bonds using an atomic force microscope, which can measure the minute forces acting between two molecules. In a typical experiment, we attach one protein to a flat surface and another to the tip of a small cantilever spring. We let the two proteins bind to each other, then slowly pull on the spring to apply an increasing force to the two molecules. Eventually, the bond between two molecules breaks, and we measure the force needed to achieve that breaking.

This is a random process, initiated by thermal motion. Each time we do the experiment, the breakage force is different. But the survival probability of the bonds plotted against applied force looks just like human survival plotted versus age. The similarity resonates with the C. elegans results, which suggest a possible connection between breaking protein bonds and aging—and between aging and thermal motion.

Peter Hoffmann





There is a vigorous discussion inside the aging research community about whether to classify aging as a disease. Many researchers studying specific diseases, cellular systems, or molecular components would like to see their favorite research subject take the mantle of “the cause” of aging. But the sheer number of possibilities being put forward refutes the very possibility. They can’t all be the cause of aging. Leonard Hayflick, the original discoverer of cellular aging, pointed out in his provocatively titled article “Biological Aging Is No Longer an Unsolved Problem” that the “common denominator that underlies all modern theories of aging is change in molecular structure and, hence, function.” The ultimate cause, according to Hayflick, is an “increasing loss of molecular fidelity or increasing molecular disorder.” This loss of fidelity and increase in disorder will manifest itself—by its very nature—randomly and therefore differently for different people. But the ultimate cause remains the same.

If this interpretation of the data is correct, then aging is a natural process that can be reduced to nanoscale thermal physics—and not a disease. Up until the 1950s the great strides made in increasing human life expectancy, were almost entirely due to the elimination of infectious diseases, a constant risk factor that is not particularly age dependent. As a result, life expectancy (median age at death) increased dramatically, but the maximum life span of humans did not change. An exponentially increasing risk eventually overwhelms any reduction in constant risk. Tinkering with constant risk is helpful, but only to a point: The constant risk is environmental (accidents, infectious disease), but much of the exponentially increasing risk is due to internal wear. Eliminating cancer or Alzheimer’s disease would improve lives, but it would not make us immortal, or even allow us to live significantly longer.

That doesn’t mean there is nothing we can do. More research into specific molecular changes in aging is needed. This may show us if there are key molecular components that are the first to break down, and whether that breakdown leads to the subsequent cascade of failure. If there are such key components, we would have clear targets for interventions and repair, possibly through nanotechnology, stem cell research, or gene editing. It’s worth a try. But we need to be clear about one thing: We’ll never defeat the laws of physics.





Peter Hoffmann is a professor of physics at Wayne State University and the associate dean of research in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences.

====== 2751 ========

WILL APPLE MUSIC COMPLETE ITUNES’ DESTRUCTION OF MY WILL TO COLLECT MUSIC?

To its great discredit, iTunes makes it very easy to delete a song off your hard drive without meaning to. Screenshot by Sofya Levina

Last week, an astonishing blog post by a man named James Pinkstone circulated on social media. In it, Pinkstone claimed that he had lost 20 years’ worth of music files as a result of signing up for Apple Music; as he explained it, the service had hoovered up the collection of MP3 and WAV files he had been keeping in his iTunes library and replaced them with streaming versions that lived in an Apple-owned cloud. The original files, as Pinkstone understood it, had been deleted off his computer in the process. To his surprise, when he called Apple Support to find out what happened and how to fix it, he was told that this was exactly how Apple Music—the company’s year-old streaming service—was supposed to work.

These were disturbing allegations—especially if, like me, you had recently signed up for Apple Music for the first time so you could listen to the new Drake album as early as possible. It was particularly worrisome that a lot of the songs Apple Music had allegedly removed from Pinkstone’s hard drive weren’t properly replaced. For example, instead of a rare, early version of a Fountains of Wayne song that Pinkstone had at some point downloaded or ripped to his computer as an MP3, Apple had plugged in a less distinctive, more widely available version of the song.

Hold up, I thought to myself: Did this mean that anyone who downloaded the early, leaked version of Drake’s “Controlla,” which featured a fun guest appearance by Jamaican dancehall artist Popcaan, was going to wake up one morning and find that Apple Music had switched it out for the official, Popcaan-less album version?

Pinkstone’s blog post filled me with vicarious panic and rage. Here was yet another reason to hate Apple’s music software—something I’d been doing for years, with iTunes as the primary source of my discontent. To date, that discontent had been fueled by the utter disarray in which iTunes had left my digital music library. If what Pinkstone was saying was true, it seemed entirely possible that Apple Music had already started laying siege to what ruins still remained of my once-organized, once-glorious music collection.

It was not always this way. There was a time when iTunes was fine. For a while it even felt like a step up from Winamp, the elegant bit of freeware that I and millions of others installed back when we were using Napster and Audiogalaxy to download music by the truckload. But the digitally encoded honeymoon didn’t last: With the launch of the iTunes store and the phasing out of the iPod in favor of the iPhone, iTunes became the unavoidable command center for managing all kinds of data, not just “tunes” but photos, podcasts, apps, TV shows, and more. As Farhad Manjoo wrote in Slate in 2012, in a piece titled “Won’t Someone Take iTunes Out Back and Shoot It?” the software had become a bloated monster that wasn’t good at doing any of the things that Apple was forcing it to do.

At some point between then and now, iTunes became a total black hole to me. I stopped understanding what it did when I downloaded a song and dragged it into my library. I didn’t get how it related to Apple Music, or what role iCloud played in managing my data. Above all I couldn’t get my head around syncing—the mysterious and maddening process I had to go through whenever I wanted to put specific songs on my iPhone.

None of it made sense to me, and when I thought for too long about the impact iTunes was having on the texture and structure of my music consumption, I was overcome with a bitter sense of loss.

I used to love collecting music. It was a fun, ongoing process that played out over years, and it provided me with an ever-growing time capsule of my taste. Even after I stopped buying CDs—I had amassed a big, proud shelf of them by the time I left for college—I treated my MP3s as my personal property, and I made a point of owning albums and songs that I loved and wanted to remember for years to come. Not to get too High Fidelity here, but my life was richer for having this collection; in addition to reminding me of songs I might have otherwise forgotten and giving me easy access to them, it was a record of who I was.

Reading Pinkstone’s blog post reminded me how much more fractured and less deliberate my music-listening life has become in the age of iTunes. Instead of having a collection that I care for and build over time, I have what amounts to a random pile of files spread across my various devices. These days when I want to listen to music, I consistently just put on either a streaming playlist that’s been curated for me by somebody else, or whichever big album happened to come out most recently, be it Kanye West’s The Life of Pablo or Rihanna’s ANTI.

How did this happen to me? How did I become the equivalent of the guy who, in a previous era, owned eight CDs, one of which was No Way Out by Puff Daddy and two of which were the Beatles’ greatest hits?

Part of the change can be attributed to my age, obviously: People who are 31 generally have less energy for cultivating their musical taste than they did when they were younger. Another part can be chalked up to the rise of streaming audio in general: One could argue that my “collection” now consists of everything that exists on Apple Music and Spotify, which I’ve subscribed to since its U.S. launch in 2011.

Nevertheless I believe that Apple—and iTunes in particular—shoulders more responsibility than anything else for how my listening habits have changed.

At the root of the problem is that the iTunes interface is now designed first and foremost to seamlessly integrate with other Apple products. For worthy reasons, Apple has made it extremely easy to listen to songs you’ve paid the company to listen to, whether you’re a subscriber to its streaming service or a customer in its online store. When I bought the Shamir album Ratchet from iTunes the day it came out, it automatically downloaded to my phone, my laptop, and my work computer. In the year since, I have never had any trouble listening to it, and by virtue of having it in all my iTunes libraries—the one at home, the one at work, and the one in my pocket—it actually feels like I own it.

I can’t say the same for a lot of other music I love, which exists on my devices in a state of abject entropy for the simple reason that it’s not part of the Apple ecosystem. The celebrated 2013 album Acid Rap by Chance the Rapper, for instance, is only available as a free download from mixtape websites; because I didn’t buy it from the iTunes store and cannot stream it from Apple Music, it doesn’t automatically show up in my digital library and I therefore seldom think to put it on. Ditto the trove of classic but never-officially-released diss tracks by Eminem that appeared online between 2002 and 2003, and rarities like the solo Julian Casablancas demo for the Strokes’ “You Only Live Once,” which appeared on the soundtrack for Somewhere.

A truly personal music collection is inevitably going to be full of such odds and ends. But while I’ve owned all the stuff listed above at various points in my life, I don’t have it all in one place, because iTunes has made it next to impossible to do so. At a time when artists have become increasingly generous about sharing stray material with their fans through the internet but never making it available for sale, I have lost the ability to keep track of anything that’s not officially sanctioned.

How I got here, I’m not totally sure, except that on more than one occasion, I’ve had some kind of syncing problem while trying to transfer something to my iPhone, or trying to delete photos or podcasts or movies in order to free up space. Whatever it was I was attempting to do, I must have selected the wrong settings or checked the wrong boxes or hit the wrong buttons while doing it; all I know is that Apple has repeatedly wiped my digital collection clean of all the songs I ever downloaded, except for the ones I had purchased directly from the iTunes store.

That’s how I remember it, anyway. The truth is I am a helplessly unreliable narrator in this story, because whenever I use iTunes, I find that I have absolutely no idea what’s going on, or what the consequences of my actions will be. So while I can’t really be sure how my music collection was decimated, I can say that I went from having a ton of MP3s—many of them downloaded from blogs or directly from artists—to just having the aforementioned Ratchet, Watch the Throne by Kanye West and Jay Z, and a handful of other basically random albums and songs that I happened to buy from the iTunes store.

It’s my fault, obviously. If I were better at computers or maybe just more adept at interpreting the cryptic language that populates Apple’s dialog boxes, my life would probably be different. On the other hand, it’s ridiculous that a software suite from one of the world’s most successful companies is such a minefield, or that the steps required to move files from one of my Apple devices to another has the potential to rob me of everything I own. It doesn’t make sense that everyone I know who still uses iTunes despises it, and that many people, including me, have abandoned it in favor of streaming because managing their libraries became too much of a chore.

In my case it happened gradually and chaotically: Though I do still occasionally seek out mixtapes and stray leaks directly from the web, I’ve mostly just stopped listening to music that’s not available on Spotify. On a basic level, I don’t have a music collection anymore because Apple made it too hard and frustrating to maintain one. And though I certainly deserve some of the blame myself, I can’t help but feel that iTunes has beaten out of me impulses I once cherished, like wanting to download every new mixtape by Lil’ Wayne as soon as it came out, or feeling compelled to own every Smashing Pumpkins album, even though it’s been years since I wanted to listen to them. By making it so difficult to manage my digital music library, iTunes has even closed me off to certain artists I’m confident I would have otherwise loved—for instance, Lil’ B, the ultraprolific rapper who has put out thousands of songs that aren’t available on any streaming service and can’t be bought from the iTunes store.

I’m not saying it’s rational; obviously I could listen to Lil’ B if I really wanted to. And yet the consistently taxing experience of using Apple’s software to acquire, organize, and access my music has dissolved the sense of ownership and identification I once felt toward it. In so doing the company has turned off a part of me that I miss.

* * *

After I read the alarming blog post about Apple Music on Thursday, I decided enough was enough. I was going to figure out how to use iTunes and Apple Music if it killed me.

It almost did. To wit, here’s me after 30 minutes on the phone with an Apple technical-support person who tried her best to lead me out of the darkness:

My hives, myself. Leon Neyfakh



Those are hives all over my face, something that usually only happens to me in times of extremely stressful uncertainty. Reading over my notes from the call, I can’t say I’m surprised that this was my body’s reaction, and I definitely can’t say I came away from the conversation with a better understanding of what might have happened to James Pinkstone’s music collection.

Ultimately I did achieve some clarity, thanks almost entirely to an Apple Music expert named, appropriately enough, Serenity Caldwell. Caldwell is the managing editor of iMore, an Apple news site, and the co-author of a whole book about Apple Music; I found my way to her because of a blog post she wrote about Pinkstone’s problem in which she stated, flatly, that the thing he was warning his readers about couldn’t possibly have happened the way he had described it.

What Caldwell made me realize over the course of a half-dozen extremely patient emails is that Apple Music represents a clumsy and inscrutable attempt to blur the line between “owning” a song and merely streaming it. As Caldwell explained it, the app is designed to take the songs you have on your various devices and create backups of them that you can then stream from your own personal cloud.

This is supposed to work even with songs that aren’t available on Apple Music: If I want to listen to Chance the Rapper’s Acid Rap on my iPhone even though the original files only exist on one of my computers, Apple will make a copy of the songs and place them in the cloud. The problem, as I now understand it, is that whenever possible, Apple prefers not to do this—that, ideally, it wants to serve you songs directly from its Apple Music library. This means that if I’ve downloaded Drake’s Views on my work computer in the form of MP3s and want to listen to it from my iPhone on my walk home, the app will provide me with a stream of the Apple Music version of the album instead of saving the MP3s to my cloud and serving me those.

Unfortunately, this sometimes results in mix-ups: In the case of that Fountains of Wayne demo that Pinkstone wrote about, it’s likely that Apple mistakenly identified it as the version of the song it had in its streaming library, and played that instead of the version Pinkstone actually wanted. This is why I’m worried about losing that Popcaan-assisted version of Drake’s “Controlla” that’s on my hard drive: Pinkstone’s experience suggests that iTunes might think the file is the same as the officially released version of “Controlla,” and serve me that as if I won’t know the difference.

But did Pinkstone’s music actually get deleted, as he claimed? Caldwell said she was flummoxed by this, but offered a possible explanation: One thing Apple Music allows you to do, she said, is delete a song from your hard drive entirely and still listen to it on all your devices as a cloud-based stream. The trick is this only works as long as you are a paying Apple Music subscriber; if you cancel your account, the stream will cease to be accessible, and unless you have your original file backed up somewhere, you lose it forever. To its great discredit, iTunes makes it very easy to delete a song off your hard drive without meaning to: Not only are the cloud icons that appear next to each song completely opaque and confusing, it’s possible that a song you’ve deleted will continue to show up in your library, but never give you any clear indication that it’s only a stream as opposed to a local file.

Maybe that’s what happened to Pinkstone. It’s hard to say based on his blog post, and he didn’t respond to an email seeking clarification. Regardless, it’s clear to me that Apple Music is not designed to delete my music and replace it with anything; what it’s designed to do is eliminate the need for me to constantly be syncing my devices with each other. In doing so, Apple Music seems to be holding out the promise of once again letting me keep all my odds and ends in one place.

Now that I’ve wrapped my mind around all this and my hives have subsided, it seems possible to me that I can harness Apple Music’s functionality to actually rebuild that lost collection of mine. It’ll require some getting used to, certainly—there’s something deeply counterintuitive to me about the fact that my devices are all going to contain some songs that are stored locally and some that only exist as streams—but it’s exciting to think that I might once again have the will to start building up a music library.

It sounds perfect, really. But then, so did iTunes. With apologies to Apple, I’ll believe it when I see it. Till then, I’m going to keep nervously checking to make sure my version of “Controlla” still has Popcaan on it.

====== 2752 ========

WHAT WE WOULD ACTUALLY DO TO STOP A 'DOOMSDAY’ ASTEROID

Imagine the day observatories confirm that an asteroid is on a collision course with Earth; space-faring nations agree we need to stop it. What happens next depends on how much time the asteroid watchers say we have. None of these options are easy, and at least one of them would require the use of nuclear weapons.

Major asteroid strikes are rare. The last one that could have caused massive loss of life was the Tunguska event of 1908, in which what was believed to be a meteorite exploded some 10 kilometres above a remote area of Siberia.

That type of impact occurs once every few centuries. Siberia, however, is remote; even today the population is small and scattered across a huge area. Had the same object arrived four of five hours later, the major city of St Petersburg would have been hit with the equivalent of a megaton-scale nuclear explosion.

We have seen a smaller version of this nightmare scenario more recently. In 2013, the Chelyabinsk Meteor, which disintegrated at an altitude of 30 kilometres, shattered windows and injured 1,400 people in the western Russian city. It delivered an explosion equal to about 500 kilotons – about 30 or so Hiroshima bombs – though it exploded high enough to not cause too much structural damage. That kind of impact is much more common, occurring about three times per year. Most occur over the ocean or in remote areas, so we usually don't notice. But the question isn't if an impact will happen, but when.

Governments are taking this seriously; taking the first tentative steps to preventing a dangerous impact. In January, Nasa formed the Planetary Defense Coordination Office to act as a clearing house for asteroid observations and work with other space agencies to discuss how large space rocks on a collision course with Earth might be dealt with.

Right now, the PDCO spends much of its effort in detection, coordinating various observation programs, says Lindley Johnson, Nasa's planetary defense officer. That's because you can't deal with the space rocks until you know where they are. "We try to detect anything that might be a threat years, if not decades, in advance," he says. Once a dangerous asteroid is identified, the actual plans for stopping one enter the picture.

The simplest method is a kind of planetary billiards, using a space probe to send a heavy object (or the probe itself) smashing into it. The asteroid will then, hopefully, be pushed off course and miss the Earth.

The idea is to find out exactly how much one can move an asteroid without running the risk of sending it on a dangerous trajectory

A joint European Space Agency and Nasa mission will test such technology in the next few years, under the name Asteroid Impact and Deflection Assessment (Aida). The mission consists of two spacecraft, one called the Asteroid Impact Mission (Aim), which will launch in late 2020, and the second, the Double Asteroid Redirection Test (Dart), in 2021.

In 2022 they'll arrive at a double asteroid called 65803 Didymos, which is accompanied by a companion called Didymoon. Didymos measures some 780 metres across, while Didymoon is about 170 metres. The smaller of the two orbits the larger one every 11.9 hours, and they are close, only 1,100 metres apart. The Aim craft will rendezvous with the asteroid and study its composition. Once Dart arrives it will crash into Didymoon, and Aim will see what the effect on the smaller rock's orbit is. The idea is to find out exactly how much one can move an asteroid without running the risk of sending it on a dangerous trajectory, a kind of baby step to actually redirecting it.

To put the potential of the mission in perspective, the famous Meteor Crater in the US state of Arizona was probably made by an object only one-third the size of Didymoon, and that's 170 metres in diameter. A Didymos-size rock hitting the Earth about 15.5 kilometres per second – about the minimum speed it would be travelling at – would release something like two megatons worth of energy; easily enough to destroy a city. At its maximum speed (about 34.6 kilometres per second) it would release four megatons of energy – the equivalent of four million tonnes of TNT.

"We want to alter the orbit of the moon around the primary," says Patrick Michel, a senior researcher at France's National Centre for Scientific Research and one of the Aida team leaders, "because the orbital velocity of moon around primary is only 19cm per second." Even small change could be measured from Earth, he adds, changing Didymoon's orbital period by about four minutes.

It's also important to see if the impactor works. "All the models [of impacts] that we do are based on understanding of collision physics that is only at lab scale – centimetre-ised targets," Michel says. Whether those models are true on real asteroids is still something of an open question.

If there's less time, we might be left to try something else

Johnson adds that the technology is the most mature – humans have demonstrated the ability to get to asteroids already, notably with the Dawn mission to Ceres and Esa's Rosetta mission to comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko.

Beyond the impact approach, there's using gravity – simply putting a relatively massive spacecraft in orbit around an asteroid and letting their mutual gravitational pull gently nudge it into a new path. The advantage of this is that it only requires that the spacecraft gets there. The orbit would be a "halo" – a roughly circular path centered on the point where the gravitational force on an object would be the same from the Sun as the asteroid. Nasa's Asteroid Redirect Mission might indirectly test the idea; part of the plan is to bring an asteroid back to near-Earth space.

However, a key element in these methods is time; it takes a good four years to mount a space mission beyond Earth orbit and the spacecraft will take another year or two to get to the relevant asteroid. And if there's less time, we might be left to try something else.

Qicheng Zhang, a physicist at the University of California, Santa Barbara, thinks lasers could be another answer. A laser won't blow the asteroid up like a Death Star. Instead it would vaporise a small part of the surface. Zhang, along with his colleagues working under experimental cosmologist Philip Lubin, presented a set of orbital simulations in a paper to the Astronomical Society of the Pacific.

This might seem like it would be ineffective, but remember that if it’s done early enough even a tiny nudge can alter an orbiting body's course by many thousands of kilometres. Zhang says the advantage of a laser is that a large one can be built in Earth orbit, and won’t need to chase an asteroid down. A laser with a power on the order of one gigawatt, firing for a month, could move an 80-metre-wide (264ft) asteroid – like that which created the Tunguska event – by the equivalent of two Earth radii (around 8,000 miles, or 12,800 kilometres). That's just enough to avoid a collision.

Another version of this idea is to send a spacecraft equipped with a less-powerful laser, though in that case it would have to reach the asteroid and follow it relatively closely. Since the laser would be smaller – in the 20 kilowatt range – it would have to operate for years, though Zhang's simulations suggest that a satellite following an asteroid, reaching it 15 years in advance, could also push it the necessary distance.

If you've seen the movie Armageddon or Deep Impact it sounds straightforward enough, but it's actually a lot harder than it sounds

Zhang says the good thing about his Earth-orbiting proposal is that following an asteroid or comet in orbit is not as easy as it looks, even though we've already done it. "Rosetta was originally intended to target a different comet (46P) until a launch delay forced them to switch targets due to 46P no longer being in a favourable position. If a comet decides to target Earth though, we don't have the luxury of switching it out for a better one." Asteroids aren't quite as difficult to track, but it will still take around three years to reach one, he says.

Johnson, though, notes one of the big problems with using a laser of any sort is that nobody has launched a kilometre-sized object of any sort into orbit, let alone an array of lasers. "There's a lot that I wouldn't consider mature; converting solar power to laser power reliably enough to operate for that long is one."

Then there's the "nuclear option". If you've seen the movie Armageddon or Deep Impact it sounds straightforward enough, but it's actually a lot harder than it sounds. "You'd need to send up an entire infrastructure," says Massimiliano Vasile, at the University of Strathclyde. He proposed detonating a nuclear bomb at some distance from the target. As with the laser, the plan here is to vaporise some of the surface, which would generate thrust and alter the asteroid's orbit. "If you ablate [erode] you have the advantage of high energy efficiency," he says.

While lasers and nuclear bombs can work when an asteroid is closer, in those cases composition becomes a significant factor, since the vaporisation temperatures will differ from one asteroid to the next. Another issue is flying rubble. There are many asteroids that might be just that – agglomerated chunks of rock that are only loosely bound. An impactor might not be as effective on that kind of body. That's a big plus for the gravity tractor method, Johnson notes – the composition and cohesion don't matter so much.

Any of these methods, however, might run into a final obstacle: politics. The 1967 Outer Space Treaty bans the use of nuclear weapons and their testing in space, and deploying a gigawatt laser in orbit might make some people nervous.

Smaller asteroids that could wipe out a city are far more common than giant planet killers – Qicheng Zhang, University of California, Santa Barbara

Zhang noted that if the power in an orbiting laser is lowered to 0.7 gigawatts, that only pushes the asteroid about 0.3 Earth radii – about 1,911 kilometers. "Smaller asteroids that could wipe out a city are far more common than giant planet killers. Now consider such an asteroid on a trajectory targeting New York. Depending on the circumstances, attempting and partially failing to deflect the asteroid from Earth might shift the site of impact to London instead, for example. If that were a substantial risk, the Europeans might not be so willing to agree to letting the US to deflect the asteroid."

Such obstacles might be less than anticipated. "There's an escape clause in these treaties," Johnson says, referring to the Outer Space and Comprehensive Test Ban Treaties. The OST doesn't prohibit the launching of ballistic missiles, for example, which travel through space and might be armed with nuclear weapons. And in light of the need for planetary defence, criticism over their use might be muted.

Michel notes that unlike any other natural disaster, this is one we can avoid. "This is something for which the natural risk is very low, compared to tsunamis and such. But it's the only one for which we can do something."

* This article has been amended to correct the projected speeds of a Didymos-sized rock hitting Earth

Join 600,000+ Future fans by liking us on Facebook, or follow us on Twitter, Google+, LinkedIn and Instagram

If you liked this story, sign up for the weekly bbc.com features newsletter, called “If You Only Read 6 Things This Week”. A handpicked selection of stories from BBC Future, Earth, Culture, Capital, Travel and Autos, delivered to your inbox every Friday.

====== 2753 ========

CAN WE TALK? THE DEEPENING CONVERSATION BETWEEN HUMANS AND COMPUTERS

Getty Images

Not long after Radiohead's 1997 masterpiece Ok Computer came out, I sat in the small upstairs office of my house and sang aloud to the album's least tuneful song, "Fitter Happier," a track in which the lead vocalist is a monotone computer voice that reads aloud ways to become healthier and more productive. By "sang along," I mean I made my computer sing along: I typed out the words and hit play at the exact right moment so the computerized voices (both Apple's Fred) fell in line with each other.

I loved making machines talk. Some years before that, I typed words into a 90s program called Kid Works, which you could use to have a man's voice read aloud short bits of text. "Rachel's dog 10" I typed, a reference to a drawing I just did with a mouse. "Rah-chel-S- dog-ten" the computer read back to me, the deep, scratchy man's voice sounding tinny from the Macintosh IIsi built-in speaker.

When I first learned to make a computer talk, I had to tell it exactly what to say. The only surprises came from the machine's curious mispronunciations. Nowadays I make my gadgets converse with me by rousing them with my voice and waiting to hear what they come up with in response. The difference is so stark I have to remind myself I'm chatting with a machine. When my phone's virtual assistant gets something wrong, I have to correct myself: She didn't get it wrong—it got it wrong. (I actually have my Siri set to use a man's voice, so there's a double layer of wrong happening here.)

This distinction should be easy. Yet when things talk to us and when we talk to them, we have human expectations for them. The more natural our conversations are, the thinking goes, the more we'll talk. And the more we talk, the more our artificial assistants will be able to learn from us, become like us, and make conversation with us more naturally. Jim Glass, head of MIT's Spoken Language Systems Group, puts it this way: "If you make the interaction more like human-human interaction, humans might not have to think as hard about how to express themselves, because the computer would be behaving in ways a human would."

That's the goal, at least, and that's why Apple, Amazon, Google, and others are pushing us to use our voices rather than our fingers to interact with their products. Talking is easier and faster than typing. Voice assistants like Siri have been on the market for years and are getting better all the time. So why do they still feel so weird to use? Why does it feel so uncanny to talk to an inanimate object and to expect it to talk back in your own language?

I've long been resistant to using Siri. Very simply, I'm embarrassed. Talking to an object is embarrassing in a way that, say, talking to a stranger's dog on the street is not. Maybe it's the mundanity of what I'm saying, asking Siri boring questions about what the weather is like today. Or maybe it's that the mundanity touches something deeply personal—the dictation of a text message saying "I'm on my way," or the question to Google about what I should eat tonight. Talking to a voice assistant feels a bit like speaking a foreign language to a native speaker. "For some people," Glass says, "having the machine try to be like a human can be weird." Indeed.

Eventually, I gave in. It happened when I moved to a place where I drove after years of riding the subway. I'd often wonder what song was on the radio, and Siri could tell me. Or I'd think of something I needed to get at the grocery store, and I'd have Siri add it to my list. But it was when I started wearing an Apple Watch that I really gave in. It's just so convenient to raise my wrist to my mouth and tell Siri to remind me at 4 to call the cobbler.

There are now devices out there that let you control your whole smart home without lifting a finger. Tell your house to become 72 degrees, and it will. That's a nice hands-free trick, but that's what it is: a shortcut, not a conversation. Something else is now happening. Tell the speaker to play more music that sounds like the National, and it will. Not only will it do that, but it'll learn what you mean by "play more music that sounds like the National"—that you mean this band but not that band. It'll recognize you as you. How is this even possible?

The way gadgets were meant to be controlled Getty Images

Now that Siri and its ilk have been around for a few years, it's become easy to forget just how much it takes to make even this level of voice control happen. There are three huge steps working here.

First, the device has to be able to hear you. It needs a decent microphone, one that can pick up your voice amidst a collection of other sounds. Next, it needs to be able to understand you—that is, it needs an algorithm that can identify the sound coming from you as speech and translate that speech into text. Often, this step involves recognizing keywords, like "what" and "weather" and "San Francisco." Good voice assistants can understand unconventional pronunciations; after you've said a word enough times, a voice assistant will understand you always say it that way. It doesn't matter if the pronunciation isn't standard, only that the pronunciation is consistent. Last comes the step that separates a computer assistant from a mere computer voice. It needs to understand what what you're asking for, and it must be able to beam and receive data from the cloud to give you the response you're asking for.

The Amazon Echo

All mainstream voice assistants are decent at these three tasks, but each has its strengths. Siri and Google Now both learn a user's voice and understand what the user wants fairly well. But they can have a hard time picking up a voice amidst the daily cacophony. It's no surprise that Amazon's Echo—it's a speaker, after all—picks up the slack there. But the Echo is limited by the apps it is connected to (it won't work with iCloud, for example) and by its size—you won't take this thing to the bar and ask it about basketball scores. And even if you could, it might not be able to answer, as it seems to be designed for more home-related tasks, like ordering pizzas. Hound, SoundHound's voice-controlled search engine, actually does speech recognition and natural-language processing at the same time, in a process it calls "speech-to-meaning." The app is currently the best at understanding complex requests, like "Find me a coffee shop with Wi-Fi that serves beer within a mile of my house."

"If you make the interaction more like human-human interaction, humans might not have to think as hard about how to express themselves."

Whichever voice assistant you use, you probably had to talk to it for awhile before it began understanding your requests on the first try. Some of us have gotten used to the idea of talking to our gadgets. But many of us still haven't gotten used to how we have to talk to our gadgets.

Whether or not we think about it in such cold and rational terms, human language is a means of information retrieval. A conversation can be angry, witty, romantic, or tense, but talking to another human being is fundamentally about exchanging information. It's a collection of inputs and outputs, if you think about it as you would with a machine.

Yet the human voice may be the least intuitive input device for interaction with machines simply because it's the most intuitive input device for interacting with each other. We already know talking so well that it's a primarily unconscious endeavor. I've spent my whole life figuring out how to communicate with other people by talking, and most of my life figuring out how to communicate with machines using my hands. Now I'm supposed to sit back and command a speaker or phone to do my bidding, expecting a machine to deliver a mechanized (and, I hope, accurate) response behind the veneer of a human voice.

And when I command that phone, I have to use the right phrases. I'm simultaneously supposed to talk to the device naturally—since I'm using my voice—and unnaturally, since I know its ability to understand me (and the realm of answers it can provide) remains limited. Countless memes and videos are dedicated to Siri easter eggs, the quirky canned responses Apple has programmed it to give when you ask the assistant a question it cannot answer.

Things are getting better—meaning voice assistants are getting a lot more human-sounding. "The convenient thing to do is to mimic the human model so you're bringing along what you already know about communication," says Nuance CTO Vlad Sejnoha. But today, "it's like interacting with five-year olds." That's partly due to the very means of communication—language, which is wonderful, but ambiguous. So it can be hard both for voice assistants to understand what we're saying and for us to understand what they're saying back—or at least why they're saying it. Why, for instance, does Siri default to a Bing search when I ask it "What year was Iowa City founded?"

Part of the problem is a lack of "introspection," Sejnoha says. AIs need to know what they don't know, and they need to be able to explain it. When they can do that, Siri still may default to a web search, but it'll at least tell you why it's doing that, just as a person might tell you why she doesn't understand your request.

Talking to a voice assistant feels a bit like speaking a foreign language to a native speaker

The real question of the moment is whether Siri should be more human. On a practical level, sure. It'd be helpful if Apple's voice assistant were better at understanding what you were asking. For Silicon Valley prophets who foresee seamless interaction between human and gadget, that's probably a no-brainer. Yet we might grow too uncomfortable as our devices fall deeper and deeper into the uncanny valley (and my problem of referring to software as "she" is likely to get worse).

For another thing, teaching a machine to learn and "think" as a human does may hold it back. The magic of voice assistants is that they talk to us as if they were human, yet they have instant access to a vast reservoir of knowledge beyond the hope of a mere mortal. I can't tell you when the next train is coming, nor can I seem to remember how many tablespoons are in a quarter cup, but Siri can.

The ideal may be a voice assistant that understands us as a human would while responding as both a machine and human would. A machine we can talk to in a natural voice, without having to rephrase our thoughts in a way a computer would understand, but that has access to vast quantities of information and runs many tasks simultaneously. Something that is human, but not too human.

"In the future, we will have complex conversations with the things around us," says Keyvan Mohajer, founder and CEO of SoundHound. "The more these things become humanlike, the more people will adopt them—and will feel comfortable about adopting them." Maybe so, but don't expect things to be perfect along the way. "If they sound like humans, it increases the expectations for what they can do. People might start asking subjective questions, like, 'My girlfriend broke up with me, and I'm sad—what should I do?'" Mohajer says. "But in the long term, machines will be able to handle all those questions."

Until then, we'll have to make do with over-enunciating and dead ends. We'll have to make do with using the most human of inputs—the voice—and getting something not quite human in response.

====== 2754 ========

HOW GAMING IS SHAPING THE FUTURE OF WORK

It’s Friday morning just before 10 AM, and I’m packed in a queuing area with over a thousand fans, all eagerly awaiting the rope drop, and the start of day one of the conference. To my left is a teenager dressed as a leafy sprite complete with vines growing out of her head. To my right is Batman. This is PAX (the Penny Arcade Expo), one of the largest gaming conventions in the world, and I’m here to see the future—the future of work.

While most bosses would frown on playing Halo at the office, it’s video games that are driving much of the innovation in video, virtual reality, and collaboration technologies today—something that has important implications for how we work, especially with far-flung colleagues. .

Each new generation of game requires more processing power, faster video rendering, and more memory than the generation before. The Borg and Area 51 gaming systems come equipped with a liquid cooling function, a hybrid of solid-state and spinning disk drives, and RAM in the triple digits. Dedicated gaming platforms such as Microsoft’s Xbox and Sony’s PlayStation have been ramping up their specs year after year to keep pace with the voracious demands of game designers. These advances, in turn, drive down the cost of lower powered systems, and spur innovation in laptop and desktop solutions, as well as mobile devices.

One of the most recent developments is 4K, or Ultra High Definition. This advanced resolution requires incredible video processing power, but also allows for the creation of immersive, lifelike renderings of gaming environments. The auto industry was among the first to see the promise of technologies like Computer Assisted Design (CAD) and Computer Assisted Manufacturing (CAM). They use simulators programmed with real-world physics and advanced imaging pioneered in the gaming world to test how new car designs respond to different driving scenarios. Designs are refined in the virtual world before automakers spend a cent building actual cars. With the level of detail made possible by these tools, it’s easy to imagine other companies conceiving and testing physical products in this way.

And that’s just the beginning of what games have to offer business. Technologies like virtual reality, multi-user environments, and real-time gameplay are immersing gamers in war zones or distant planets today, but will be used by organizations to build a more collaborative workforce tomorrow.

Consider the implications just for remote workers. A 2012 survey by Siemens Enterprise Communications found high levels of frustration, disconnection, and distraction among members of virtual teams. Virtual reality promises a solution. That’s one reason why Goldman Sachs has predicted that by 2025, the virtual and augmented reality market will grow to $80 billion or about the size of today’s PC market.

Imagine joining a meeting that exists in virtual space – a conference room rendered in 3-D, complete with chairs, a table, a whiteboard, and coffee. As your colleagues join, you see their avatars enter the room and sit around the table. The meeting is an immersive simulation of an in-person meeting, created with the help of motion sensors that track physical movement or gloves equipped to capture hand movements and body language. Audio is a live feed from each participant. In this scenario, it’s difficult for team members to slip off to do their laundry, or multitask on other projects, because their attention is fully committed to the virtual environment of the meeting.

People playing immersive 3-D games are already using this technology. The gear is expensive (the Oculus Rift Headset rings in at $599, Sony’s PlayStation VR headset is $400, and the HTC Vive is $800), but as with any new technology, prices will drop over time. Virtual meeting vendors are now adding support for these tools to their product roadmaps. So while you’re probably not sitting in a virtual conference room today, you may be soon.

Gaming is leading the way in another important area of technology: user engagement. Extending gameplay is a top priority among game designers. One of the ways they hold people’s interest is by fostering personal connection. Many of today’s most popular games, from golf simulators to The Sims, allow you to customize an avatar. This creates an emotional connection between the player and the game. QVIT, an online clothing store, allows shoppers to create personal avatars to try on outfits. They are betting that by seeing your virtual self in the clothes, you’re more likely to buy.

Some of the other tactics employed to keep you playing come straight from behavioral psychology. In fact, many game companies hire psychologists to devise engagement strategies. Think about the last game you played. Early levels are pretty easy, with wins and rewards, whether in the form of upgraded weapons or in-game virtual money. But the longer you play, the harder it is to get to the next level. This is called a reward interval or ratio. If the interval is too long, the player gets frustrated and quits. If it’s too short, the player feels like the game is too easy and not worth their time. Optimization of reward intervals comes from the work of B.F. Skinner, and other behavioral scientists.

While this may be worrisome for parents whose children can’t stop playing video games, it’s been welcomed as a tool to engage learners. In 2014, Microsoft made headlines when it acquired Minecraft – one of the most popular gaming platforms on the market. In early 2016, they announced the release of Minecraft Education Edition, placing a huge bet that gaming is the future of learning. Cisco Systems has implemented a game-based learning program to help employees and contractors improve their social media skills. And Deloitte integrated gamification into their Online Leadership Academy in 2016. Within three months, the number of users returning to the site on a daily basis increased 46.6%. As companies see the benefits of increased engagement through games, the number and variety of learning applications will continue to grow.

These are just a few of the technological advances coming out of the gaming industry. But one thing is clear: games are setting the pace. Are you paying attention?

====== 2755 ========

WHEN DID AUDIENCES STOP TAKING ‘MIDDLEBROW’ TELEVISION SERIOUSLY?

If you paid attention to the conversation around The X-Files’ tenth season, you would probably think the new episodes wrecked the integrity of the original series. But the problem with The X-Files’ new season isn’t that it was outright terrible — it’s that it didn’t evolve to meet the expectations that come with being a “Golden Age” TV show. See, the new X-Files wasn’t all that different from the 1990s version audiences fell in love with: It was always a rather hokey, thoroughly middlebrow show, veering from excellent monster-of-the-week episodes to overarching mythology ones involving alien conspiracies, with plot holes big enough to drive a truck through. Its divisive return was a stark example of how much the medium has changed since the show’s original run, the complicated relationship audiences have with middlebrow entertainment, and why shows from House of Cards to Game of Thrones choose to mis-market themselves as prestige TV.

Distinctions like “midbrow” and “highbrow” may seem like awkward descriptors within the current, massive television landscape, but they can provide a useful lens in terms of distinguishing what types of stories we find culturally important. Prestige television, as we’ve come to define it, boasts high production values, an interest in weighty themes, and, more recently, high-profile actors and behind-the-scenes talent. We can see the beginnings of this in The Sopranos continuing in recent years with Mad Men, Breaking Bad, Rectify, and The People v. O.J. Simpson. Comedies like Veep and Louie can fall into prestige television, but much of what we deem “prestige” hews toward darker subject matter, presented with literary flair. Looking at some of the shows dubbed prestige over the last decade — the forgettable Bloodline, pure soap opera House of Cards, and exploitation-tinged Game of Thrones — you can see that the label doesn’t necessarily indicate consistent quality or depth, but the appearance of it. Bloodline also shows that looking like a prestige show, or even being one, doesn’t necessarily guarantee you public attention or awards — the problem is that shows like Bloodline seem to think they need to be viewed as highbrow to get the right attention (more on that in a minute).

Good midbrow television shares several important traits. As a viewer, what defines it more than anything else is the idea that audiences (and the show itself) need to have fun. If “prestige” television aims for the intellectual, midbrow is concerned with the visceral experience and pleasure that can come from TV. It cares less for blatantly weighty themes, instead prioritizing personality, directness, and engaging viewers without talking down to them. The 1990s and early 2000s had several midbrow shows that gained dedicated audiences and critical acclaim: The X-Files, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, cop dramas like Homicide: Life on the Street, and Lost fit the bill. Although their history with the Emmys isn’t stellar — The X-Files and Lost were each nominated for Outstanding Drama at the Emmys four times; Lost only won once — they are still considered part of the TV canon. But around the time of Lost’s last season is when audience expectations began to shift.

The rise of shows like Mad Men, The Sopranos, and Breaking Bad, as has been said many a time, ushered in a new era of what television was supposed to be. These shows were full of literary references, white male anti-heroes, serious subject matter, and “important” themes. The overwhelmingly positive public reaction slowly created the idea that these shows offer the sort of drama and craft that adults want, and that American film couldn’t provide with any consistency as the box office became dominated by superheroes and reboots of beloved 1980s franchises. But what happened simultaneously is that shows that fit the definition of midbrow became less culturally validated, even though they were still some of the most interesting television out there.

Much of the best modern midbrow television today exists within genres that are often looked down upon when award season rolls around or people are looking for a more “important” show to watch: science fiction (Orphan Black); romantic period dramas (Outlander); lighter superhero adaptation (The Flash, Supergirl); or even period spy drama The Americans (which is more a show about interpersonal relationships, but its marketing as a spy drama in season-one stuck). Most of these are shows critics love and write about with some regularity. But even when midbrow television is critically acclaimed and beloved by those who watch it, it still doesn’t get much in the way of award recognition or break into the larger cultural conversation. Midbrow is considered good for right now, not for posterity.

Part of this is because of the sheer volume of television today, and the fact that The X-Files was unlike anything else we had seen on television when it debuted in the early 1990s. It mixed influences like The Twilight Zone and Philip K. Dick novels with a will-they-won’t-they dynamic between two extremely charismatic leads, and it’s had a huge influence on television today. But it’s also because how we think about genre shows on television has become siloed more than ever into categories the average viewer disregards as too niche. Game of Thrones is an exception, because it was arguably the first to do big-budget, “serious” fantasy, on HBO no less, despite its being a soapy, midbrow TV show at its core. Vikings, on the other hand, is seen as a good series, but it’s still pigeonholed as a genre show because it lacks the weight of the HBO brand and, coming on the heels of Game of Thrones, was dubbed as a copycat.

Some shows, like Jane the Virgin — which airs on the CW, a network where “midbrow” is built into its brand identity — are harder to define. Jane gracefully handles themes of motherhood, femininity, and Latino culture, while also clearly working hard to make every minute of the show blissfully entertaining. It isn’t that Jane the Virgin isn’t high quality or that its meta take on the telenovela isn’t as inventive as anything on prestige television. But Jane the Virgin’s problem is that it centers on themes and a genre that don’t fit neatly into the prestige narrative, and thus isn’t taken as seriously by mainstream audiences (though Gina Rodriguez’s Golden Globe win for her performance as the titular Jane, and critical praise for the show, did go a ways toward getting people to consider it more than they otherwise would have). It’s indicative of a larger trend: Female-led shows that play around in more stereotypically masculine genres like noir, or look at the burdens of female existence by detailing themes like rape culture, are more likely to be deemed “prestige.” Just look at Top of the Lake, or the radically different responses, critically and culturally, to Jessica Jones and Supergirl.

This dynamic explains why certain modern midbrow shows market themselves as serious television and attempt to emulate the surface-level qualities of highbrow TV. House of Cards is at best midbrow, and, increasingly, a ridiculous soap opera that fancies itself much smarter than it is. It may have the acclaimed film actors and high production values we associate with highbrow television, but the show is as weighty as a piece of cotton candy, and when it incorporates heavy ideas, it treats them as a way to get to the next ridiculous twist. It isn’t alone: Bloodline, most of Showtime’s lineup, including, most recently, Billions, Hulu’s new series The Path, and True Detective season two also exhibit a vast gap between what they are and what they perceive themselves to be. This trend is understandable: Shows want to be a part of the cultural conversation and, to a degree, they need to be to survive. But if series like House of Cards would embrace their true, pulpy nature, it would just make for a better show. Shonda Rhimes has created an empire out of bringing a sense of grace and ridiculous fun to what are essentially nighttime soaps. At her best, Rhimes respects the genres she works within, knows how to intimately speak to her audience, and even to handle serious themes without it coming across like empty grandstanding.

UnREAL perhaps illustrates the best of what midbrow TV has to offer. Part of its breakout appeal last summer was because no one was expecting it to be good. It’s a Lifetime show, with no A-List name talent in front of, or behind, the camera. The premise — the behind-the-scenes drama of a Bachelor-esque reality-television show through the eyes of an emotionally messy, prickly producer played by Shiri Appleby (known for her turn on ‘90s midbrow show Roswell) — has “guilty pleasure” written all over it. But UnREAL ends up cleverly critiquing the same ethos that Lifetime is built on — an arguably sexist view of what women are into and where their worth lies. It’s an incredibly smart show that has an honest understanding of race and gender dynamics when it comes to beauty and dating in ways that continued to surprise me throughout its first season. It’s also a very dark show in how it approaches domestic violence and mental illness. But UnREAL doesn’t advertise its darkness or feel gritty, and lacks the studied air and slower pace of many prestige shows. On another network, like HBO, with a higher budget, bigger talent, and presumably different marketing, the conversation around UnREAL would be dramatically different.

Serious, so-called prestige television isn’t bad. There are many series I love that fall into that category. But the obsession with these types of shows — and our cultural tendency to see a certain type of show as having artistic worth — has put a stranglehold on television’s creativity in terms of what types of stories are prioritized. Midbrow television has so much value beyond shameless fun. The Flash has some of the most interesting takes on modern masculinity; Jane the Virgin is the best example of balancing a meta take on a genre with incredibly rich, sincere emotional landscapes; UnREAL is perhaps one of the most intelligent examples of the way we harm one another and ourselves in our quest for success. Midbrow television has given us new takes on themes prestige television often isn’t as interested in, from sweeping romances and new motherhood to body politics. It’s still really good — and it also just breaks the monotony.

====== 2756 ========

LETTER OF RECOMMENDATION: MOVIES ALONE

When your apartment doubles as your office, a workday can decay into a deserted arena for rival compulsions. Eventually you need to be among people again. That’s why I head to the movie theater at weird hours, seeking some semblance of ceremony. One ticket buys the ability to be privately public. Without companions nearby, the conversation becomes visual: I glance at the whispers and flirtations in the audience, at those people leaving early, the ones staying serenely behind. I listen to the crickety rustle of popcorn. I run my fingers over oxblood velvet. Whether you’re in church or in a theater, sometimes the frescoes are prettier than the liturgy.

I don’t buy into the rather precious notion of cinema as ritual, at least not the solemn kind. A laptop or a smartphone has its uses, and its charms. I’m just too distractible to relax in front of a computer screen by myself — it always feels like research. The piety of moviegoing is ahistoric, anyway. Orson Welles once described how it was in the 1930s: “You strolled down the street and sallied into the theater at any hour of the day or night. Like you’d go in to have a drink at a bar. Every movie theater was partially empty. We never asked what time the movie began.” You’d leave when you realized the reels had wound back to the point at which you entered. As late as 1960, Hitchcock could use “no latecomers” as a novel marketing gimmick for “Psycho.”

The studios have since become mere adornments of multinational conglomerates, producing films merged into “cinematic universes,” and the theaters have consolidated, too. They are fewer but more elaborate. And to counter the routine of streaming something or other whenever, both multiplexes and art houses increasingly frame every screening as an exclusive occasion. “Star Wars: The Force Awakens” sold $100 million in advance tickets, more than all but a couple of dozen films grossed over their entire domestic runs last year. Manhattan’s new Metrograph is a distant corner of the industry, where you can see beautiful restorations of Dorothy Arzner pictures from an assigned seat, and they sell every ticket that way. Such convenient hassles will never feel quite like sidling spontaneously into a cinema alone, the moth circling the marquee’s light.

====== 2757 ========

COULD WE BE FOREVER YOUNG?

Immortality: Trust us, you wouldn’t like it.

It’s a comforting message, in a sour-grapes sort of way. It sounds wise and mature, suggesting that we put aside childish dreams and accept once and for all that there can be no vital Veg-O-Matic that slices mortality and dices infirmity. Gerontologists like it, being particularly eager to put on a respectable front and escape the whiff of snake oil that clings to the field of life extension.

In 1946 the newly founded Gerontological Society of America cited, in the first article of the first issue of its Journal of Gerontology, the need to concern ourselves to add “not more years to life, but more life to years.” The dictum was famously sharpened 15 years later by Robert Kennedy when he told the delegates at the first White House Conference on Aging “We have added years to life; it is time to think about how we add life to years.” Political theorist and futurist Francis Fukuyama was particularly eloquent but hardly alone when he warned two decades ago that if we maintain our obsession with extending life at all costs, society may “increasingly come to resemble a giant nursing home.”

Robert Holland / Getty Images

Around the same time noted aging researchers S. Jay Olshansky and Bruce Carnes wrote in ominous tones that we were treading into the realm of “manufactured survival time,” warning that “this success has been accompanied by a rise in frailty and disability in the general population.1 This is a consequence that neither the medical community nor society was prepared for.” A celebrated article by epidemiologist E.M. Gruenberg in 1977 bemoaned the “failures of success”: “at the same time that persons suffering from chronic diseases are getting an extension of life, they are also getting an extension of disease and disability.”

This message is particularly dire if lifespans rise over extended periods of time—which they have done. In 1936 Louis Dublin, the chief actuary of Metropolitan Life teamed up with the esteemed mathematical demographer Alfred Lotka, to calculate the maximum life expectancy theoretically possible. They came up with a limit of 69.93 years. This limit was exceeded by women in Iceland five years later, by American women in 1949, and by American men in 1979. Life expectancies have been increasing at a steady rate of 3 months per year for the past 175 years, and on average, expert calculations of the maximum possible human lifespan have been exceeded an average of five years after being made. In some cases, they had already been overtaken by events somewhere in the world at the time they were issued.

Also in Mortality How the Obits Became My Muse By Jascha Hoffman A few years ago, I began to write songs inspired by the obituary pages. While writing my third album of pop songs, I got stuck. The songs on my previous albums had mostly come painstakingly, unscientifically, one-by-one, on their own...READ MORE





But what if long lifespans don’t necessarily mean more years of disability? At the turn of the present century George C. Williams, celebrated evolutionary theorist of aging, attacked what he termed the “Tithonus error.” Tithonus, son of a nymph, lover of a goddess, was granted the boon of eternal life. But the further gift of eternal youth was unattainable. Frail, bent, and suffering he shriveled at last into a cricket. Williams’ argument was almost a trivial one, from the perspective of evolutionary biology: The very aged are rare, hence there is unlikely to have been any evolutionary pressure to shape the timing of the end of life, in the way that the timing of early development has been shaped. What we see as the “natural lifespan” is simply a balance between the wear of daily life and the limited ability of repair mechanisms to undo it fully. Shifting the balance, either by increasing the rate or efficiency of repair, or by reducing the rate of damage, must surely stretch out the whole process. Actually, it should do even better than that: The end stage, where most of our suffering is found, ought to be the least susceptible to extension, since it requires maintaining the function of an organism that is failing on multiple levels. This is consistent with the observation that, while mortality rates have been falling at all ages, the pace of progress has been slowest at advanced ages. Youth, according to this argument, should take up a greater portion of our lifespan over time. In 1980 the medical researcher James Fries called this process “compression of morbidity.”

Americans in 2010 could expect to live 80 percent of their lives without major disability, including well over half of their years after age 65.

The morbidity-compression concept—simultaneously a description, a prediction, and a target for future health policy—received a tremendous boost in the mid 1980s when the economic historian Robert Fogel discovered that a tremendous amount of it had already taken place without anyone having noticed. When he started examining the medical records of Union Army Civil War volunteers and veterans he found a staggering level of what we would now consider to be age-related degenerative disease—arthritis, heart disease, cancer—at ages when it would now be exceedingly rare. Of the recruits under age 20, nearly all volunteers, who were examined for service in the Union Army in 1861, 16 percent were rejected on medical grounds. This rose to nearly a quarter of those aged 20 to 25, and nearly half of those in their 30s.

By comparison, the generation of American men who fought in World War II and are now in their 90s lived, on average, about eight years longer than their great grandfathers who fought in the Civil War, once they reached adulthood. Those among the 19th-century men who did survive into what we now call middle age also spent more of their years suffering chronic, debilitating illnesses. Specifically, the average age of onset of arthritis was 64.7 years for the WWII veterans, but only 53.7 years for the Civil War veterans. Heart disease started nearly 10 years later, and chronic respiratory disease more than 11 years.

Comparing the Union Army results with late 20th-century health surveys has led to estimates of disability-rate declines of 0.6 percent per year, accelerating to 1.7 percent per year in the 1980s and 1990s.2 These trends have continued into the 21st century, at least according to some measures. According to the 1985 United States Health Interview Survey 23 percent of Americans aged 50 to 64 reported limitations on daily activities due to chronic illness; in 2014, this was down to 16 percent. At ages 65 and higher, the percentages were 39 percent and 33 percent.

Library of Congress; Monkey Business Images / Shutterstock

A recent study by University of Southern California gerontologist Eileen Crimmins and her colleagues looked at the change in disability-free life expectancy—the average number of years that we would expect someone to live free of major limitations due to long-term illness. From 1970 to 2010 American males gained about 7.7 years of life expectancy at birth, of which nearly half (3.2) could be expected to be disability free. Perhaps more immediately relevant, Americans aged 65 saw their remaining life expectancy increase from 15 to 19 years, with 2.5 of the 4 extra years being disability-free. (This averages the results for men and women; women gained fewer years overall than men, but the relative gains between disability-free and disabled years are similar.) The largest increase in healthy years after age 65 came in the last decade. Americans in 2010 could expect to live 80 percent of their lives without major disability, including well over half of their years after age 65.

Perhaps most striking, a new study has discovered that over the past two decades the incidence of new dementia cases has dropped by 20 percent.3 Men in the United Kingdom develop dementia today at the same rate as men five years younger in the 1990s; for women the improvements have been more modest.

Imagine, now, that the trend of the last century continues another hundred years: Our 50-year-old great-grandchildren may have an average of 50 years left to live, the same span as a 30-year-old today can expect. It is not implausible that they will be similarly spry and untouched by disability. Will they really think of themselves as young, in the same way that a 30-year-old today does? Will youth extended still be youth? It is not as absurd as it may seem. When the U.S. National Institutes of Health first founded its Aging Unit—later the National Institute on Aging—in 1940, it announced the goal of research in “the problems of aging,” particularly “the period between 40 and 60 years of age.”4





On the other hand, the story of morbidity compression could be about to change. That’s because the big drivers of compression have already acted. Medical technology will continue to advance, but, for all its marvels, it has played a smaller role in compression than basic improvements in nutrition and hygiene. It turns out that much of what might have been considered normal age-related decline is strongly accelerated by disease and malnutrition early in life, even before birth. Babies of malnourished mothers, even those who received adequate nutrition after birth, are found decades later to have substantially elevated incidences of coronary heart disease, stroke, and hypertension. Survivors of childhood smallpox and whooping cough have generally higher levels of mortality in old age.

It seems clear that the wealthy part of the world has achieved the peak of benefits to be gained from increased nutrition and basic hygiene—if we have not actually gone far past on both scores. The nexus between improved nutrition and improved adult and late-life health was marked, in the past, by increasing height: Final adult height summarizes the whole record of childhood health nutrition, and the past two centuries of increased lifespans consistently tracked increases in average height. These increases have plateaued, by and large, in Japan and Western Europe, though some laggards—in particular the U.S., which used to have one of the tallest populations in the world—clearly have some space to catch up.

The massive benefits from vaccination, the elimination of leaded gasoline, and reduction of smoking are still making their way through the aging population, of course, and will likely be stretching our healthy lifespans for some time to come. Tremendous progress could still be achieved by spreading the healthful environments of wealthy countries to the rest of the world, and the healthful lifestyles of the wealthy within those countries to the rest of the population.

But beyond these effects, and especially for Western countries, morbidity compression will not be what it once was. Perhaps the most optimistic scenario for the near future of healthy aging may be what demographer Kenneth Manton has called “dynamic equilibrium.” Manton suggested that disease would not be prevented or delayed, but managed and arrested at an early stage, so that an increasing portion of the population would be living with mild disease, while fewer would suffer severe disability.

An illustration of this may be found in a recent study of the timing of disability by health economists David Cutler, Kaushik Ghosh, and Mary Beth Landrum. By their measure, expected disability-free years after age 65 expanded from 8.8 to 10.4 and disabled years actually contracted, from 8.5 to 7.8, between 1992 and 2004—with the disabled years increasingly concentrated in the period immediately preceding death. The picture looked slightly different, though, when framed in terms of “disease-free” years. Disease-free life expectancy after age 65 barely increased, from 8.0 to 8.6, while years with disease increased from 9.5 to 9.7. More disease, then, but less disability.

Diabetes was transformed early in the 20th century from a killer to a manageable chronic disease; AIDS went this way in the early 21st century. The biggest killer of all in the developed world, cardiovascular disease, may also be making this transition. Eileen Crimmins, who has generally been cautious about claims of morbidity compression, has pointed out that most of the decline in CVD mortality in the 1950s and 1960s came from disease-preventing lifestyle changes, while the hardly less remarkable reductions over the last few decades—up to 70 percent reductions in mortality in western Europe and the U.S.—were largely due to medical treatment and disease management.5

Will the fit 90-year-olds of the future need to expend the strength they have maintained to lug around the contents of a large medicine cabinet to keep them going? A recent study found that while the fraction of elderly Americans (age 65 and over) who were taking five or more prescription medications had been increasing, it seems to have stabilized in recent years at just under 40 percent. Many of the most effective treatments for age-related conditions are set-it and forget-it—hip replacements, for instance, and cardiac pacemakers. Implantable drug pumps are already in use.

We long ago got used to thinking that a person can still be youthful and healthy even when needing spectacles to see clearly, or when their survival depends on an artificial supply of insulin. The spry 90-year-olds of the future may be no different, hearing through cochlear implants and running with leg and heart muscles rebuilt with stem-cell treatments. Whatever the future of aging is, there is no sign yet of any limit to our ability to expand each of the phases of our lives.





David Steinsaltz is an associate professor of statistics at the University of Oxford. He blogs at Common Infirmities.

References

1. Olshansky, S.J., Carnes, B., & Grahn, D. Confronting the boundaries of human longevity. American Scientist 86, 52 (1998).

2. Costa, D.L. Understanding the twentieth-century decline in chronic conditions among older men. Demography 37, 53-72 (2000).

3. Matthews, F.E., et al. A two decade dementia incidence comparison from the Cognitive Function and Ageing Studies I and II. Nature Communications 7 (2016). Retrieved from DOI: 10.1038/ncomms11398

4. Gilleard, C. & Higgs, P. Aging without agency: Theorizing the fourth age. Aging & Mental Health 14, 121-128 (2010).

5. Crimmins, E.M., & Beltrán-Sánchez, H. (2010). Mortality and morbidity trends: Is there compression of morbidity? The Journals of Gerontology: Social Sciences 66B, 75-86 (2011).





The lead photocollage was created with images from Dorling Kindersley / Getty Image and Vvoe / Shutterstock



====== 2758 ========

DESIGNING FOR THE STARS OF OUTER SPACE

Growing up in Norman, Oklahoma, headquarters of exciting attractions like the National Weather Center and Andy’s Alligator Fun Park, Lindsay Aitchison was destined for great things. On a road trip to Disney World one summer at the age of four, her family stopped off in Houston, Texas at the Johnson Space Center. One riveting IMAX film later, and her fate was sealed. She was going to work for NASA.

Racked is no longer publishing. Thank you to everyone who read our work over the years. The archives will remain available here; for new stories, head over to Vox.com, where our staff is covering consumer culture for The Goods by Vox. You can also see what we’re up to by signing up here.

Today Aitchison is NASA’s Deputy Project Manager of the Advanced Spacesuit Project. Her work days are pretty typical. She wakes up around 6:30AM, takes her dogs out, eats breakfast, and then designs spacesuits for astronauts to wear on Mars. You know, the usual.



So where does one go to get a degree in spacesuit design? Parsons? RISD? Wrong. Aitchison earned her BS in Mechanical Engineering from Purdue and her Masters in Human Factors Engineering from Wright State, all while completing five co-op tours (special internships) at NASA. But don’t worry, none of this has gone to her head. When Aitchison tests out a spacesuit, she still puts it on one leg at a time, just like the rest of us.

Currently, her team is hard at work testing NASA’s Z-2 prototype exploration spacesuit. The aesthetic of the suit was voted on by the public in 2014. Wired with flashy electroluminescent lighting and a hard shell torso described by Aitchison as a "tank top", the Z-2 would make a great $4.4 million Halloween costume.

The most notable difference between the current prototype and former iterations is the suit’s compatibility with women’s bodies. For the first time in history, half of the candidates selected in 2013 to be NASA astronaut trainees are women. Aitchison says the last spacesuits designed in the 1980’s were created under the assumption that female astronauts were basically just tiny men.

"If you know anything about clothing design, women are definitely not just smaller versions of men. Most obviously, women’s breasts can get in the way. So we are thinking more about where we put things like drink bags and where we have hard points in the suit," said Aitchison in a phone interview with Racked.

During the Apollo program, the crew was assigned well in advance, giving designers time to create custom spacesuits for each astronaut. The final crews for future missions to Mars and the Moon won’t be assigned for at least a decade or more, so engineers are now working on a modular design. Astronauts will be able to mix and match pants, gloves, sleeves, and other parts to fit their various proportions. "Having modular spacesuits means everyone will be accommodated, but it may not be as great of a fit as a completely customized suit would be," said Aitchison. On the other hand, if say an astronaut’s elbow joint wears down while collecting Moon dust, she’ll be able to borrow a replacement elbow from a friend.

The Z-2 spacesuit is designed for easy exploration on the Red planet, the Moon, and any other landform where a spacecraft can touch down. The flexible material of the sleeves and pants allow astronauts to bend to the ground and pick up samples, as well as lift objects over their head. Aitchison says going from kneeling to standing in the 150 pound spacesuit requires muscle and balance. The Z-2 is a pressurized design made from layers of high-tech materials that are inflated until taut. The inflation compensates for some of the weight, but moving around in the spacesuit is still strenuous. Aitchison recommends her Crossfit routine to stay in shape for testing. "Doing weighted lunges with a 65 pound barbell is the closest feeling to getting up in the spacesuit that I’ve ever experienced," said Aitchison. When not pumping iron or utilizing her genius brain, Aitchison enjoys watching romcoms and reading Vogue.

Her design inspiration comes from unexpected sources. After reading about Fabrican on the best inventions of the year list in a 2010 issue of Time magazine, she wondered if the spray-on fabric could be adapted to repair spacesuits on the go. When she heard about singer Nicole Scherzinger, of former Pussycat Dolls fame wearing a CuteCircuit dress that displayed a Twitter feed in real time, she imagined a spacesuit with a live feed of mission instructions built right into the garment.

NASA also seeks inspiration from engineers working on industrial and athletic apparel. "If I were to leave NASA as an industry, I would definitely want to go into something to do with evaluating athletic apparel for human factors," said Aitchison. Perhaps in the future she’ll work for a line like Y-3, a commercial spaceflight outerwear collaboration between Japanese designer Yohji Yamamoto and Adidas.

But for now she says she’s enjoying the perks of working for NASA. You mean gourmet cafeterias, nap pods, and free pens? Not exactly. "For one, I get to test spacesuits out in all these different environments which is just crazy cool," said Aitchison. She recommends a stroll around the Rockyard, NASA’s simulated alien land, or a dip in a 6.2 million gallon pool called the "Neutral Buoyancy Lab" to get a feel for how the spacesuit would fit on a spacewalk. If you seek a bigger thrill, take a ride on NASA’s aptly named "Vomit Comet," a rollercoaster-like parabolic aircraft that simulates microgravity.

Aitchison says despite the seriousness of the work, she and her colleagues make plenty of jokes on the job. "We’re kind of nerdy. Nerdy fun is not necessarily fun for everyone else, but we have a lot of laughs," said Aitchison. "We have fun with acronyms. One of the favorite acronyms I came up with is a test called SPAM. SPAM stands for Suit Port Airlock Module. But it was fun to say we’re doing SPAM testing today."

Naturally, we asked this extremely accomplished engineering professional how astronauts manage to pee-pee while wearing the spacesuit. "Oh that’s one of the best questions!" said Aitchison. "Our astronauts wear what is called a maximum absorbency garment or ‘mag’ for short. Which is basically a diaper, but that doesn’t sound nearly as cool as maximum absorbency garment." So beneath every great astronaut is a soggy diaper? "The wicking fabric we use is actually very efficient and the air in the suit helps keep it dry," said Aitchison. The mags are designed to hold over a liter of urine, so over-caffeinated space travelers will be all set.

Could you wear the spacesuit around town, say to a bar? "They discourage us from doing that around here since they are one of a kind items," said Aitchison. "Actually I guess you could, but it would be pretty disappointing when you try to take a drink through your helmet."

One small step for a woman, one giant leap for womankind.

====== 2759 ========

ARE YOU A ROBOT?

Why did this happen?

Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.

====== 2760 ========

THE PLAN TO AVERT OUR POST-ANTIBIOTIC APOCALYPSE

The report’s language is sober but its numbers are apocalyptic. If antibiotics continue to lose their sting, resistant infections will sap $100 trillion from the world economy between now and 2050, equivalent to $10,000 for every person alive today. Ten million people will die every year, roughly one every three seconds, and more than currently die from cancer. These are conservative estimates: They don’t account for procedures that are only safe or possible because of antibiotics, like hip and joint replacements, gut surgeries, C-sections, cancer chemotherapy, and organ transplants.

And yet, resistance is not futile. O’Neill’s report includes ten steps to avert the crisis. Notably, only two address the problem of supply—the lack of new antibiotics. “When I first agreed to do this, the advisors presented it to me as a challenge of getting new drugs,” says O’Neill. “But it dawned on me very quickly that there were just as many, if not more, important issues on the demand side.” Indeed, seven of his recommendations focus on reducing the wanton and wasteful use of our existing arsenal. It’s inevitable that microbes will evolve resistance, but we can delay that process by using drugs more sparingly.

The first step is to improve sanitation. Fewer infections means less need for antibiotics. For richer nations, the focus lies in reducing infections in hospital settings. For poorer countries, ensuring clean water and better sanitation is paramount; as O’Neill writes, resistance “is intrinsically an issue of economic development.” In India, Nigeria, Indonesia, and Brazil alone, sanitation could save 300 million courses of antibiotics, currently used (often ineffectively) to treat diarrhea.

We also need a global surveillance network to understand the extent to which antibiotics are being used, the spread of resistant microbes and the genes behind their powers, and the effectiveness of different drug/bug combos. The World Health Organization has already planted the seeds of such a network, and following an earlier O’Neill report, the UK government launched the £195 million Fleming Fund to build surveillance in poorer countries.

Even without such data, some remedial steps are already obvious. In the U.S. alone, 70 percent of antibiotics that are medically useful to humans are given to animals instead, and not just for treating disease but for promoting growth or compensating for poor farming practices. So O’Neill’s report recommends that from 2018, countries should set ten-year reduction targets to reduce the unnecessary use of antibiotics in agriculture. It also argues for restrictions or bans on the agricultural use of any drug that’s a last-line defense for humans. And it suggests that meat should be transparently labeled so consumers can make informed choices.

A lot of human antibiotic use is wasteful too. Of the 40 million people who get antibiotics in the U.S. every year, only 13 million actually need them; the rest have viral infections that can’t be treated with these drugs. One solution is to develop better, faster, cheaper diagnostic tools, so doctors don’t have to assess vague symptoms, or rely on slow, expensive tests based on centuries-old technology. “I sometimes think that if there was a single most important thing here it might be diagnostics,” says O’Neill.

====== 2761 ========

'WHEELCHAIR-BOUND' ELDERLY MAN SCAMMING CASH BY CLAIMING TO NEED PARKINSON'S MEDICATION

An elderly man in a wheelchair is scamming people out of their cash by claiming he needs to buy medication for his Parkinson's disease.

Locals across the Sutherland Shire, in Sydney's south, claimed the man approached cars at traffic lights and even opened their doors to beg for money.

However, he would later be seen miraculously walking with ease around pubs placing bets on horse races or playing poker machines.

An elderly man in a wheelchair is scamming people out of their cash by claiming he needs to buy medication for his Parkinson's disease

Locals across the Sutherland Shire, in Sydney's south, claimed the man approached cars at traffic lights and even opened their doors to beg for money

Complaints about the man's antics went back at least three years but victims and residents claimed police said they were powerless to act.

Dozens of social media posts reported him using the same sob story at car parks and traffic lights, always asking for $18, and said he was at it again this week.

'It's Christmas season and the old p***k is taking advantage of people's good hearts. Tell him to f**k off if he approaches you,' one local said.

'As you can see in photos he can walk just fine going into the Taren Point Hotel to place bets. Please tell everyone you know.'

However, he would later be seen miraculously walking with ease around pubs placing bets on horse races or playing poker machines

When people tried to photograph him on their phones, he would quickly ride away on his motorised wheelchair

Those who refused or told the man they didn't have money to give him said he became abusive and aggressive.

When people tried to photograph him on their phones, he would quickly ride away on his motorised wheelchair.

Whether the man actually suffered from Parkinson's was not known, but witnesses said he didn't display any symptoms.

The man's sob story was similar to that of a 49-year-old woman who was on Wednesday charged with fraud in western Sydney.

Well-intentioned people claim to have been conned out of their hard-earned cash by this middle-aged woman peddling a sob story about her sick mother

Dozens of people flooded social media with tales about the same woman working her alleged scam throughout car parks in Sydney's western suburbs

She was allegedly fleecing kind-hearted shoppers out of their cash by telling a fake sob story about her sick mother.

Dozens of alleged victims claimed she told them she needed money for petrol to and parking at Newcastle Hospital where her mother had just been rushed.

The woman from Kingswood, in Sydney's west, allegedly targeted shoppers at Bunnings and shopping centre car parks.

She will face Penrith Local Court on December 18 charged with dishonestly obtaining financial advantage by deception.

====== 2762 ========

VIDEO: HILARIOUS MOMENT LEYTON ORIENT FAN MIMICKS BROMLEY PLAYER WARM-UP

Video: Hilarious moment Leyton Orient fan mimicks Bromley player warm up

A Leyton Orient fan made the home crowd laugh as he pranked a Bromley player by mimicking his pre-match warm-up routine. Dressed in the full football kit, the fan can be seen matching the player stride for stride as...

====== 2763 ========

PEP GUARDIOLA ADDRESSES UNIVERSITY OF LIVERPOOL STUDENTS

0:07

People run away as shots are fired inside a mall in Alabama

====== 2764 ========

VIDEO: CARLOS TEVEZ HUGS FAN WHO INVADED PITCH DURING TRAINING SESSION

0:07

People run away as shots are fired inside a mall in Alabama

====== 2765 ========

VIDEO: ASHLEY COLE: RAHEEM STERLING REMINDS ME OF WHAT I WENT THROUGH

Video: Ashley Cole: Raheem Sterling reminds me of what I went through

Ashley Cole has said that fellow player Raheem Sterling's relationship with the media reminds him of what he went through earlier in his career. The England legend suffered from negative press coverage after moving...

====== 2766 ========

VIDEO: FOOTBALL LEGEND ASHLEY COLE SAYS HE REGRETS RETIRING FROM ENGLAND

Video: Football legend Ashley Cole says he regrets retiring from England

In a new interview for ITV4 documentary series Out Of Their Skin, Ashley Cole has revealed he misses wearing the England shirt and shouldn’t have retired. The Three Lions legend won 107 caps for his country before...

====== 2767 ========

VIDEO: PEP TALKS CONTRACTS AND GIVES TEAM NEWS AHEAD OF WEST HAM GAME

Video: Pep talks contracts and gives team news ahead of West Ham game

Manchester City coach, Pep Guardiola, Pep talks contracts and gives team news ahead of West Ham Premier League clash at the London Stadium, as Bernardo Silva will miss out and Phil Foden may be handed a chance.

====== 2768 ========

TIGER V PHIL: WOODS AND MICKELSON TALK TO PRESS BEFORE CONTEST

Video: Tiger v Phil: Woods and Mickelson talk to press before contest

Courtesy: Bleacher Report Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson face the press ahead of their $9million shootout in Las Vegas, with Mickelson quick to propose a $200,000 wager on the first hole.

====== 2769 ========

VIDEO: AUBAMEYANG HANGS OUT WITH SALT BAE AT HIS DUBAI RESTAURANT

0:07

People run away as shots are fired inside a mall in Alabama

====== 2770 ========

VIDEO: PACQUIAO CANNOT STOP LAUGHING DURING FIRST FACE-OFF WITH BRONER

Video: Pacquiao cannot stop laughing during first face-off with Broner

Boxer Manny Pacquiao couldn't stop laughing during his first face-off with challenger Adrien Broner following the official announcement of their fight for the welterweight title next year at the MGM Grand in Las...

====== 2771 ========

VIDEO: JORDAN PICKFORD SINGS THE GARETH SOUTHGATE CHANT IN NOTTINGHAM

Video: Jordan Pickford sings the Gareth Southgate chant in Nottingham

This is the moment Jordan Pickford is filmed singing the Gareth Southgate chant at the Courteneers at Rocky City in Nottingham. This short clip was shared on Twitter.

====== 2772 ========

VIDEO: ROMELU LUKAKU RAPS IN BEHIND THE SCENE VIDEO FOR PUMA FOOTBALL

Video: Romelu Lukaku raps in behind the scene video for PUMA football

Manchester United footballer Romelu Lukaku raps in a behind the scene video for a promotional shoot for PUMA football. The footage was shared on PUMA's Instagram account.

====== 2773 ========

VIDEO: GARETH SOUTHGATE 'PROUD' TO END MEMORABLE YEAR ON A HIGH

Video: Gareth Southgate 'proud' to end memorable year on a high

Gareth Southgate is immensely proud after England rounded off a year to remember by sealing progress to the inaugural Nations League Finals with a stirring comeback against World Cup semi-final foes Croatia at...

====== 2774 ========

MAIL ONLINE VIDEOS: TOP NEWS & VIRAL VIDEOS, CLIPS & FOOTAGE

0:07

People run away as shots are fired inside a mall in Alabama

====== 2775 ========

KIERNAN SHIPKA KEEPS IT CASUAL IN CUTOFF DENIM SHORTS AND HOODIE FOR A VISIT TO A NAIL SALON IN LA

She stars as Sabrina Spellman, a half-human, half-witch teenager in The Chilling Adventures Of Sabrina -- the Netflix series based on the comic book series of the same name.

And on Friday, during some precious free time, Kiernan Shipka looked like any other normal 19-year old spending quality time with her mother.

The two were spotted coming out of a nail salon on a warm and sunny day in Los Angeles.

Precious free time: Kiernan Shipka was spotted leaving a hair salon in Los Angeles on Friday

Keeping with the casual day after Thanksgiving tradition, the 5ft 2in petite star showed of her gams in a cutoff denim shorts and a dark blue hoodie on this sunny Southern California day.

She paired the ensemble with black open-toe sandals that came complete with a buckle at the top and dark sunglasses.

The Mad Men alum wore her blonde tresses pulled back in a top ponytail.

Her mother, Erin Shipka, kept close to Kiernan's side as they left the salon, dressed in a black tracksuit and white sneakers.

Mother-daughter time: The Chilling Adventures of Sabrina star kept it super casual in cutoff denim shorts and a hoodie as her mother waked alongside her in a tracksuit

Cover girl: Kiernan revealed that doesn't have time to go on dates because 'work in my number one priority' in the latest edition of Seventeen magazine

The Thanksgiving holiday gave the 19-year old some much needed free time.

In an interview with Seventeen magazine, she said her hectic work week schedule typically doesn't end until Saturday at 6am, which leaves her too tired to do much of anything else that day.

'And then Sunday, I have to get all my stuff done for Monday,' she confessed. 'Occasionally, the cast can drive me out for a fun time but work is my number one priority right now.'

Latest gig: Kiernan currently stars in the TV series The Chilling Adventures Of Sabrina

And that focus and work ethic has resulted in a pretty impressive resume at the ripe young age of 19.

Aside from her one season playing Sabrina, she also garnered a huge fan base playing Sally Draper on the wildly popular AMC drama Mad Men (2007-2015).

Other notable credits include the FX anthology series Feud: Bette and Joan (2017), and movies Carriers (2009), Flowers In The Attic (2014) and The Blackcoat's Daughter (2015).

====== 2776 ========

RALPH BREAKS THE INTERNET GROSSES $10.3 MILLION ON THANKSGIVING DAY ON TRACK FOR RECORD OPENING

Disney's Ralph Breaks The Internet is set to break records over the long holiday weekend.

The animated sequel grossed $10.3 million on Thanksgiving Day, THR.com reported, putting it on track for a $90-94 million opening.

If that happens, Ralph Breaks The Internet could take the record for a long holiday weekend release, currently held by another animated Disney film Frozen with $93.6 million.

It's a hit: Disney's Ralph Breaks The Internet is set to break records over the long holiday weekend after it grossed $10.3 million on Thanksgiving Day

Ralph Breaks The Internet is a sequel to 2012's Wreck-It Ralph.

It features the voice talent of original stars John C. Reilly and Sarah Silverman as well as the voices of Gal Gadot and Taraji P. Henson.

Another movie released to capitalize on the Thanksgiving audience was another sequel, Creed II.

That film grossed $8.9 million on its first day and looks set to make around $60 million by Sunday.

According to THR.com, that would make the Rocky franchise movie reuniting Michael B. Jordan, Tessa Thompson and Sylvester Stallone on schedule to be the best Thanksgiving opening of all time for a live-action title.

Back for more: Another movie released to capitalize on the Thanksgiving audience was Creed II with Sylvester Stallone and Michael B. Jordan. It grossed $8.9 million on its first day

Not faring as well, though, was Robin Hood starring Taron Egerton, Jamie Foxx, Ben Mendelsohn, Eve Hewson and Jamie Dornan.

Dogged by poor reviews, the $100 million feature looks likelly to bring in just $14 million over the five-day holiday.

Meanwhile, Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald and The Grinch continue to perform well and look set to place third and fourth in the box office top 10 on their second weekend.

====== 2777 ========

BENEDICT CUMBERBATCH AND HIS DOG STEAL THE SHOW IN THE GRINCH, WRITES KATE MUIR

Rating:

The Grinch (PG)

Verdict: Benedict Cumberbatch in the limelight

The tagline on the animated reboot of Dr. Seuss’s The Grinch is: ‘It’s never too early to be annoyed by Christmas.’

With Benedict Cumberbatch voicing the title role with wicked relish, you will find yourself entirely in agreement with that sentiment.

You, too, will be irritated by the cheery folk of Whoville, their crass consumption, their sickly-sweet carols, their perky, pesky kids and their lurid holiday decorations.

Most people will empathise more with the 53-year-old Grinch, asking himself ‘How much emotional eating have I been doing?’ when the cupboard is bare, and perfuming himself with Mold Spice before he goes out. The story also has a Freudian poke into the Grinch’s damaged childhood

You’ll find you would just rather be home in a cave up Mount Crumpit, sitting by the fire with Benedict the Grinch, accompanied by his dry, grouchy humour and his faithful dog Max. Stuff Christmas.

Of course, this isn’t the message the venerable Dr. Seuss intended, and children will no doubt see the film as a traditional lesson in the power of love and sharing at Yuletide. But as a parent, you can enjoy The Grinch for different, darker reasons, and even award yourself a restorative nap midway when the plot sags a little.

Stretching the ten-minute storybook How The Grinch Stole Christmas! into a 90-minute movie was never going to be easy. This new holiday classic comes from Illumination, the studio behind Minions, and draws on Dr. Seuss’s illustrations from 1957.

The retro-Americana in every scene is a delight, from diners to gas stations and ancient pick-up trucks, and the colour palette indoors seems to be smeared with mustard

The original rhyming couplets are there too: ‘Every Who down in Whoville liked Christmas a lot but the Grinch, who lived just north of Whoville, did NOT!’

The film is a sweetly funny tale with less edge than Jim Carrey’s green-faced, psychotic mayhem in the 2000 live action comedy How The Grinch Stole Christmas. For those who have not performed the book at children’s bedtimes, the Grinch is a hermit and misanthrope so put out by the celebrations of the citizens of Whoville that he decides to steal Christmas itself.

He raids each house and makes off with the presents in a reverse-ferret Santa move. But the kindness of a tiny girl melts the Grinch’s heart …

The computer-animated version sticks some filler in the middle with the addition of an overweight reindeer named Fred, and attempts to woo mothers in the audience by creating the new character of Donna Lou Who (Rashida Jones) who is the single mum of Cindy Lou (the little girl who catches the Grinch stealing) as well as demanding boy twins.

The tagline on the animated reboot of Dr. Seuss’s The Grinch is: ‘It’s never too early to be annoyed by Christmas.’ With Benedict Cumberbatch voicing the title role with wicked relish, you will find yourself entirely in agreement with that sentiment

Donna works the nightshift, and cares for her three kids by day, with supermum resilience.

But most people will empathise more with the 53-year-old Grinch, asking himself ‘How much emotional eating have I been doing?’ when the cupboard is bare, and perfuming himself with Mold Spice before he goes out. The story also has a Freudian poke into the Grinch’s damaged childhood.

Thus his Scrooge-like disgust at the loud, colourful assault of the Whos in their jolly Xmas jumpers singing God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen seems completely understandable — especially for audiences facing Black Friday soon at the start of the Christmas shopping season.

Particularly well sketched is the dog Max, who uses a contraption worthy of Wallace and Gromit to make the Grinch’s morning coffee — he even adorns the cappuccino foam with a sad face. Max’s charm and unquestioning loyalty almost steal the show.

Wildfire burns bright

Rating:

Wildlife (12a)

Verdict: Trial by fire for a marriage

Carey Mulligan plays Sixties housewife Jeanette Brinson in the exquisitely acted adaptation of the Richard Ford novel Wildlife. The drama is set in Great Falls, Montana, a small town where the only excitement comes from wildfires in the mountains nearby — until the Brinson family suddenly finds that the heat has spread into their lives.

Jake Gyllenhaal is Jerry Brinson, Jeanette’s husband, but the story is mostly seen through the ever-widening eyes of their 14-year-old son Joe (Ed Oxenbould) as he watches his parents’ marriage disintegrate, and struggles to understand.

The retro-Americana in every scene is a delight, from diners to gas stations and ancient pick-up trucks, and the colour palette indoors seems to be smeared with mustard. But there is also something flat and reserved about the action, a cool distance between audience and protagonists.

This is the first film directed by actor Paul Dano, and he co-wrote the script with his partner Zoe Kazan.

Young Joe has something of the lugubrious Dano about him, as he is buffeted by events. His face takes on the worry and his hair seems to recede like that of an older man.

Things start to go belly up for the Brinsons when Jerry loses his menial job at a golf course, swills a lot of beer, then decides to take the more manly route of leaving home to fight wildfires at a dollar an hour.

The move is taken by the practical Jeanette to be abandonment — and a call to action.

Suddenly, Jeanette’s housewifely dresses are replaced by sleek outfits, and her hair shoots up into a bouffant bun. Warren Miller (Bill Camp), the rich old owner of a local car dealership looks like he might give her a job, if not more…

Mulligan is brilliant at showing her internal conflict, the swings between doubt and determination, and the need to be loved as a woman, as she tries to find a better place for herself and her son in an unequal world.

A Scottish Game of Thrones

Rating:

Outlaw King (18)

Verdict: Robert the Bruce plays Game of Thrones

Despite Outlaw King’s panoramic landscapes and big-budget battles, the medieval action epic is only showing in a few cinemas, and will mostly be seen on Netflix, where it debuts tonight.

The film has a fine cast, led by Star Trek’s Chris Pine as the Scottish noble, outlaw and king, Robert the Bruce.

This is the largest feature ever made in Scotland, but when it debuted at the Toronto Film Festival, it wasn’t the size of the production that surprised viewers. It was Pine emerging stark naked after a dip in a chilly loch.

Chris Pine and Florence Pugh in Outlaw King. The medieval action epic is only showing in a few cinemas, and will mostly be seen on Netflix, where it debuts tonight

Director David Mackenzie was nonplussed by the fuss, and pointed out how unfair it was that the full-length treatment was constantly demanded of female actresses on screen. Indeed, there’s a funny, raunchy, and loving bedroom scene between Robert and his queen-to-be — played by Florence Pugh, now on TV in The Little Drummer Girl.

Here, she exudes girlish warmth and steely determination. But back to waging war, which is the bloody core of Outlaw King. The year is 1304 and Scotland is under the English rule of Edward I (Stephen Dillane), after failing to agree on an heir to the throne.

That other blockbuster hero, William Wallace (last seen in Mel Gibson’s Braveheart), has been hanged, drawn and quartered by the English. Robert, who has knuckled down under English rule for practical reasons, suddenly sees the Scots revolting when Wallace is killed and decides to fight for Scotland’s independence — and the crown.

Edward I and his manic, immature son, the Prince of Wales (Billy Howle), are not best pleased, and kidnap his wife. Thus Robert is ready for revenge. Pine does a good, gruff Scottish accent, although occasionally his expressions under his beard seem to run the gamut from A to B. Or is that Scottish stoicism?

The film’s final battle scene is hardcore but if you’ve got the stomach for it this is a compelling drama.

Lest We Forget this extraordinary documentary

Rating:

They Shall Not Grow Old (15)

Verdict: Extraordinary and extraordinarily moving

There have been many harrowing dramas about World War I, but Peter Jackson’s extraordinary documentary is as close as we can come now to seeing it as it was lived, as it was endured (wrote Brian Viner, after the film’s UK premiere last month).

Jackson uses film and sound archive to their greatest imaginable effect, marrying incredible moving pictures with more than 150 personal testimonies

There is no narrator, no solemn-voiced Kenneth Branagh or basso-profundo Ian McKellen.

Instead, in collaboration with the Imperial War Museum, Jackson uses film and sound archive to their greatest imaginable effect, marrying incredible moving pictures with more than 150 personal testimonies recorded decades after the carnage, played one after another for 100 enthralling minutes.

They Shall Not Grow Old goes on general release today, and will be screened on BBC2 at 9.30pm on Sunday.

====== 2778 ========

CHRISTOPHER STEVENS ON FREDDIE MERCURY IN BIOPIC BOHEMIAN RHAPSODY

Freddie Mercury strutting on stage in a skimpy outfit during a show

All hail Saint Freddie! The extravagant, operatic lead singer of Queen is portrayed as a sanitised superhero for the 21st century in the new biopic Bohemian Rhapsody.

At its laughable climax, we see Freddie Mercury finally fall in love and come out as gay to his parents, earning their tearful blessing — on the day his band achieves rock immortality with an all-conquering set at Live Aid.

Actor Rami Malek plays the exuberantly camp star, who died from Aids in 1991, as a misunderstood martyr to his own sexuality.

It’s a message cynically manufactured for today’s hyper-sensitive souls, so eager to take offence while simultaneously parading their virtue.

But Freddie Mercury was not virtuous. He was nobody’s martyr, and he didn’t care who he offended.

Freddie, in fact, couldn’t possibly become a star today.

His shameless interviews would get him banned from every chat show, and he’d probably be under investigation for his sexual behaviour across half of Europe.

‘My sex drive is enormous,’ he announced. ‘I sleep with men, women, cats — you name it. I’ll go to bed with anything. My bed is so huge it can comfortably sleep six. I prefer my sex without any involvement.’

He was, he added, ‘just an old slag who gets up every morning, scratches his head and wonders who he wants to f*** today.’

Far from being, as the film depicts him, a crusader who strove to change the world’s attitudes to HIV, a sort of Lady Di in leathers, Freddie kept his Aids diagnosis a secret from the public until the day before he died, insisting to journalists that he had stopped performing because, since turning 40, he was too old to be ‘prancing about’ on stage. ‘It’s not illness, darling,’ he would say, ‘it’s just age.’

The movie has been scrupulously vetted by his Queen bandmates, Brian May and Roger Taylor, to ensure nothing soils his legend.

They started the process of canonising Freddie right after his death, with a celebratory concert featuring famous friends such as Elton John, George Michael, Liza Minnelli and David Bowie.

But the role of visionary figurehead and campaigner is one the singer never dreamed of and would not have recognised.

It is a travesty, all the more unfair because he was a deeply complex man whose feuds and contradictions could have fuelled a much more interesting film than Bohemian Rhapsody.

Freddie was a split personality, and knew it well. In his private life he was needy, selfish and insecure, swinging between mad generosity and vicious cruelty.

‘I can be very over-emotional. I seem to eat people up when they get too close and destroy them. There must be a destructive element in me because I try very hard to build up relationships but somehow I drive people away.’

On stage, a very different persona emerged. He became ego incarnate, utterly self-assured and imperious.

When he performed, he said, he felt himself float out of his body and could look down at the strutting rock god who commanded the crowd’s adoration.

He told his biographer, Lesley-Ann Jones: ‘It’s like I’m looking down on myself and thinking, “f*** me, that’s hot!” ’

The chasm between these two sides of his character made him impossibly difficult, and he knew it: ‘I’m a man of extremes.’

Even the most forgiving of his friends, such as the woman he called his ‘common law wife’, Mary Austin, were repeatedly banished.

This set up a poisonous cycle of dumpings and pick-ups. ‘I spoil my lovers terribly,’ he moaned.

‘I like to make them happy and I get so much pleasure out of giving them wonderful, expensive presents, but then they end up treading all over me. That’s why I go out looking for someone who will love me, even if it’s just a one-night stand.’

When he declared a break from Queen in the early Eighties to record a solo album — tellingly titled Mr Bad Guy — he announced that he had even dispensed with his three live-in assistants.

After years of having an entourage at his beck and call, he preferred to be alone. To rub it in, he dedicated the album to his cat, Jerry, with the sign-off ‘Screw everybody else!’

Freddie arrived in Britain shortly after he left school, when his family had to flee his birthplace of Zanzibar — off the East African coast — amid political unrest.

They settled in Middlesex, where he began studying art at Ealing College and met two members of a covers band called Smile — Roger Taylor and Brian May.

Their first collaboration wasn’t musical: Freddie and Roger sold secondhand clothes and Victoriana on a stall in Kensington market, to help pay the rent on a flat they shared.

Freddie wanted to be a musician, but not in a covers band: he saw himself as a genius, like his hero Jimi Hendrix.

One college friend, Chris Smith, recalled: ‘The first time I heard Freddie sing, I was amazed. He had a huge voice. Although his piano style was very affected, very Mozart, he had a great touch.’

After stints in bands called Ibex, Wreckage and Sour Milk Sea, he joined forces with May and Taylor, and insisted on calling the band Queen. He also adopted his own stage name: Mercury.

His training as a graphic designer came in handy for their first two album covers, which featured a royal crest he created from the bands’ star signs: a crab for Brian (Cancer), two lions for Roger and bassist John Deacon (Leos), and a pair of fairies for Freddie himself (symbolising Virgo, he claimed).

But it was his knack for lyrics, not graphics, that was giving the band an edge beyond their hard rock sound. Their first chart single, Seven Seas Of Rhye, tapped into the Seventies fad for fantasy, with lyrics that might have been written by J.R.R. Tolkien after a spliff.

Queen’s first real hit was drenched in Mercury’s wicked wit: ‘Killer Queen is about a high-class call girl,’ he said. ‘I was trying to say that classy people can be whores as well . . . it’s one of those bowler hat, black suspender numbers.’

Mercury partying with actress Jane Seymour and a friend in 1985

The album A Night At The Opera followed in 1975, and by now Freddie’s desire for extremes was shaping the band’s sound.

They had already pioneered a many-layered guitar sound, and were so irritated that critics assumed they were using synths that their LP covers carried a declaration: ‘And nobody played synthesiser.’

On A Night At The Opera they went further, banishing session musicians.

‘Every molecule on that album is us,’ Freddie said.

It included a jibe at their ex-manager, entitled Death On Two Legs: ‘It’s a nasty little number which brings out my evil streak. I was a demon for a few days. The words came very easy to me. I wanted to make them as coarse as possible.’

It’s a far cry from the airbrushed image of Queen’s four-octave vocalist, mincing around the studio and firing off a few glib quips.

He famously addressed the Sex Pistols’ Sid Vicious as ‘Simon Ferocious’ but the truth is Freddie was a better punk than any of the Pistols. It’s just that he was so much more besides.

Nobody, though, could have called him a man of the people. His airy arrogance would see him beset with demands for apologies in today’s world of Twitter outrage.

After the anthemic We Are The Champions was adopted on the football terraces, Freddie claimed: ‘It was aimed at the masses — a participation song, something they could latch on to. It worked a treat. Of course, I’ve given it more theatrical subtlety than an ordinary football chant.’

His arrogance was stoked by shovelfuls of cocaine. Everyone knows the story of the launch party for Queen’s 1978 album Jazz, where dwarfs balancing silver platters streaked in coke on their heads mingled among the guests, who had only to bend over and snort a line as one of them passed by.

What is less well known is that Freddie once upset Michael Jackson, when the two were about to record together at his Los Angeles home in 1982, by tipping a mound of cocaine onto the coffee table and chopping it into lines.

To Freddie, this was as normal as rolling a cigarette.

None of this features in the anodyne movie. And the stilted script, which might have been written by a committee of chartered surveyors for all the life it has, contains no hint of Freddie’s devilish wit.

Asked many years ago by a journalist whether he’d ever settle down and raise a family, he retorted: ‘If I wanted children, I’d just go to Harrods and buy one. They sell anything there. Buy two and you get a nanny thrown in.’

His sense of mischief sometimes caused trouble too. In Rio in 1985, during a stadium gig that was being filmed for TV, Freddie’s costume during I Want To Break Free provoked the crowd to attack a cameraman.

The band had donned drag for the song’s video, so Freddie paraded on stage with a gigantic pair of fake breasts under his crop-top.

‘I don’t know why they got so excited about me dressing as a woman,’ said an unrepentant Freddie. ‘There were lots of transvestites in Rio — just go and look on any street corner. Anyway,’ he added, ‘I wasn’t giving up my boobs for anyone.’

His attitude to money would hardly win him Facebook friends today, either. When Queen first started getting radio airplay, a music reporter asked what he planned to do with his first million. The question baffled Freddie: ‘Spend it, dear,’ he shrugged.

That attitude never changed. He spent so liberally that his accountants despaired.

He and Elton John competed to be the most extravagant: ‘Elton had that problem where people were staying at his home at the weekends, in his spare rooms, and they’d look under the bed and there would be Rembrandts. With me, it’s my Japanese prints.’

Cartier, the New Bond Street jewellers, would open especially for him. ‘I could buy up the whole shop. Some days when I’m really fed up, I just want to lose myself in my money. I work up a storm and just spend and spend. Money can’t buy happiness, it’s true, but you can force yourself sometimes.’

Suffice to say, that is not a sentiment voiced in the movie during the Live Aid scenes.

As the band’s main songwriter, with Brian May, Freddie took more of the album royalties than the group’s other members.

And he enjoyed rubbing this in: ‘Of course we’re in it for the money and I’m not afraid to say that. I take most of it because I write all the hits. I make sure I get most of it, and I spend it.’

It’s not surprising that Freddie’s interviews were one of the major sources of friction in the band, nor that May and Taylor kept such a close grip on the movie script. They didn’t want dialogue like that.

In fact, they wanted a safe, disinfected, uncontroversial film — and they didn’t want the real Freddie Mercury anywhere near it.

Bohemian Rhapsody: The Definitive Biography of Freddie Mercury by Lesley-Ann Jones is published by Hodder at £9.99.

====== 2779 ========

KATE MUIR REVIEWS FANTASTIC BEASTS: THE CRIMES OF GRINDELWALD

Muggles, grab your Eurostar tickets now, as J.K. Rowling's magical world heads for Paris in a spectacular second instalment of the Fantastic Beasts series, The Crimes of Grindelwald.

Eddie Redmayne returns as the batty magizoologist Newt Scamander, once again fighting the dark wizard Gellert Grindelwald, who has world domination and Muggle suppression on his twisted mind.

The film opens with an ingenious escape which puts the typical prison break firmly in the shade: a black carriage seemingly pulled by the horses of the Apocalypse, a prisoner under triple-wand security, a swirling, treacly mass of sky and water, a victory for evil. Yes, Grindelwald is back.

Eddie Redmayne (pictured) as Newt Scamander in Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald

Perfectly played by Johnny Depp, he has a whiff of decay and depravity.

His mismatched eyes – one dark, the other white and red-rimmed – his toothbrush moustache and his predilection for military-buttoned coats really work when he conducts a fascist-style rally in Père Lachaise cemetery in Paris.

Depp's hair is a bleached blond number-one cut, with what seems to be gel-assisted meringue on top.

That said, Scamander's floppy fringe protrudes like a small coral reef, and he hides shyly behind it, hunched in his long coat, only truly at ease with the magical creatures in his suitcase.

Grindelwald is perfectly played by Johnny Depp (above), who has a whiff of decay and depravity

It's 1927, and the Ministry of Magic tries to send Scamander to France to find Credence Barebone (Ezra Miller), who nearly destroyed New York with his Obscurus parasite in the first film, Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them. Credence is searching for his own roots, to no avail, and Grindelwald is reeling him in.

Sometimes you feel you need a PhD in Potter Studies to follow the film. Listen carefully, and Rowling's script spells it all out, occasionally laboriously.

But without heading into spoiler territory, Newt's brother Theseus Scamander (Callum Turner) arrives with his fiancée Leta Lestrange (Zoë Kravitz), who has a key role to play.

Another new attraction is Jude Law as the young Albus Dumbledore, who has a twinkle in his eye and a natty three-piece tweed suit. Dumbledore is not yet headmaster of Hogwarts, but working as the Defence Against the Dark Arts professor.

Another new attraction in the second instalment of the Fantastic Beasts series is Jude Law as the young Albus Dumbledore

He persuades Scamander to search for Credence, because there's something mysterious in his past life as a schoolboy in Hogwarts which stops him fighting Grindelwald himself.

Scamander has his own agenda too: his undying love for Tina Goldstein, an American 'auror' (played by a chic Katherine Waterston) who – guess what? – has also turned up in Le Ministère des Affaires Magiques de la France on the same quest.

Things didn't work out for Tina and Newt last time, and now his nervous inarticulacy is holding him back. He wants to tell her she has 'the eyes of a salamander', which some might not take as a compliment.

The fantastical beasts are plentiful and peculiar: a seaweedy Kelpie, which Scamander rides underwater; a Zouwu Chinese dragon creature; and the baby Nifflers, mole-platypus lookalikes with a habit of stealing the silver. Keep a close eye on the little black Niffler…

The combination of a cute creaturefest and the terrifying rise of magical fascism is a peculiar cocktail, but the sheer inventiveness of Rowling's world will be as seductive as ever for her fans.

The film opens on November 16.

====== 2780 ========

BRIAN VINER REVIEWS THIS WEEK'S FILMS FOR FILM FRIDAY

Halloween (18)

Verdict: Not a bad stab

Rating:

Jamie Lee Curtis is back, after too long off our screens, scaring us out of our wits with a mildly deranged performance, grinning inanely one minute, looking daggers the next, pawing everyone around her, talking wild‑eyed gobbledygook and refusing to shut up.

Right, that’s her appearance on last week’s edition of BBC1’s The Graham Norton Show out of the way. But what about her turn in Halloween, a sequel (conveniently forgetting all the other sequels over the years) to John Carpenter’s 1978 ‘slasher’ classic?

Curtis, who made her film debut in the original, again plays Laurie Strode, the teenager stalked all those decades ago by masked serial killer Michael Myers

Curtis, who made her film debut in the original, again plays Laurie Strode, the teenager stalked all those decades ago by masked serial killer Michael Myers.

She is now a reclusive granny, semi-estranged from her daughter (Judy Greer) and desperate to set in motion a plan that she has spent 40 years refining — to kill the dreaded Myers.

She yearns for him to escape from his high-security psychiatric hospital. And what do you know, one foggy night, while being transferred from one compound to another with a group of his fellow inmates, he obliges.

The film begins, rather effectively, with a pair of persistent investigative journalists from the UK visiting Myers in captivity.

A doctor obsessed with the hospital’s most notorious inmate tells them that he has been examined over the years by 50 clinical psychiatrists whose consensus of opinion, it won’t surprise you to learn, is not that he has anger-management issues aggravated by moderate paranoia and an extreme dairy allergy, but that he is ‘pure evil’.

Soon, the eager-beaver Brits are very much regretting their trip, and Myers, in the memorable words of the sheriff in the benighted town of Haddonfield Illinois, is ‘loose with a bunch of nutbags, on Halloween night’.

There ensues a predictable sequence of events, with Myers embarking on an indiscriminate killing spree, handily facilitated by the fact that his is not the only mask in town.

Mind you, he seems to draw the line at babies and cute chubby kids on his murderous rampage, which suggests either that there is the tiniest drop of compassion in his well of pure evil, or that director David Gordon Green doesn’t want to alienate the audience.

Meanwhile, Laurie’s granddaughter Allyson (Andi Matichak) is off to a Halloween dance with her boyfriend. It concludes unhappily, but for romantic rather than psychopathic reasons, and Allyson ends up walking home with only the class nerd for company through Haddonfield’s strangely deserted streets.

The stage is perfectly set for Laurie’s worst nightmare, that this ‘boogeyman’ will murder Allyson, the only person in her miserable life who seems to understand her.

Most of this is modestly unsettling rather than full-on scary, but the suspense is cranked up nicely in the march towards an overwrought denouement.

Moreover, a grim-faced Curtis does justice to her own illustrious place in the slasher-movie firmament, as not only the star of the 1978 film but also, of course, the daughter of Janet Leigh, who — as Marion Crane — came such a terrible cropper at the hands of another knife-wielding nutter in Hitchcock’s 1960 masterpiece Psycho.

This is certainly no masterpiece, but it might be the best of all the repeated stabs at trying to reproduce the scares of the original.

Goosebumps 2: Haunted Halloween (PG)

Verdict: Horror for kids.

Rating:

Goosebumps 2: Haunted Halloween comes at trick-or-treat night from a different angle; it’s effectively a horror film for robust youngsters, and quite nicely done.

It is the second film based on the books of R. L. Stine, who has been described as Stephen King for the under-15s. The first, in 2016, was really terrific, with an enjoyably madcap performance by Jack Black as Stine himself.

This is less well-crafted, but I should think it will be quite spooky enough for its young audience.

It is the second film based on the books of R. L. Stine, who has been described as Stephen King for the under-15s

A pair of entrepreneurial schoolboys, Sonny (Jeremy Ray Taylor) and Sam (Caleel Harris), run a junk-clearance business. On one job they find a ventriloquist’s dummy called Slappy, which turns out to be a good deal less inanimate than they first think.

To start with, Slappy comes to their aid by turning on the school bullies who routinely torment them. But soon, armed with the supernatural ability to bring other inanimate objects to life, he is terrorising the boys themselves, Sonny’s older sister Sarah (Madison Iseman), and pretty much everyone in town.

Black turns up again briefly as Stine, though it’s the younger members of the cast who drive the story, and they do a decent job. But the first Goosebumps had a faintly malevolent charm that Ari Sandel’s film never quite recaptures.

This 7 stone weakling will make you happier than a dog with two tails Dogman (15) Verdict: An Italian treat Rating: If ever there was an antidote to the seductive concept of la dolce vita, it’s this brilliant Italian-language film from accomplished director Matteo Garrone, set in a desperately down-at-heel town where the rain never seems to stop. I first saw it at this year’s Cannes Film Festival, where, in my view, it comfortably deserved (though didn’t win) the main prize: the coveted Palme d’Or. Manicure, madam? Marcello (Marcello Fonte) and friend Garrone’s previous film, 2015’s Tale Of Tales, was a sumptuous fantasy. Dogman is the exact opposite, an unvarnished, slice-of-life drama about a weedy little man called Marcello, who runs the local dog-grooming parlour. Marcello is played beautifully by Marcello Fonte, who did win at Cannes, as best actor. His character is a fundamentally decent fellow, devoted to his daughter, but practically the definition of hangdog and catastrophically in thrall to the town bully, an appalling brute called Simoncino. This tyrant all but destroys Marcello’s life, and the narrative pivots around the question of whether the 7st weakling will finally hit back. It’s a moving, funny, compelling film, among the best I’ve seen all year.

Big, dumb and a whole lotta fun

Hunter Killer (15)

Verdict: Enjoyably preposterous

Rating:

Gerard Butler — who somehow seems to be getting squarer-jawed as he gets older — plays Joe Glass, a rugged maverick in command of a U. S. submarine sent to sort out a right old hoo-hah in Russian waters.

We first meet Glass above the surface, as he prepares to shoot a handsome-looking stag with a bow and arrow. Is he the hunter killer of the title? Nope, that’s the sub.

Besides, he hesitates, struck by the majesty of his quarry, and the fact that he (the stag) appears to be a proud husband and father.

Thus, Glass is established as tough and ruthless enough to go hunting, but also compassionate and decent enough to spare an animal’s life. That’s the kind of movie this is. A very, very unsubtle one.

Butler: Square-jawed maverick

It’s also a movie which presents Gary Oldman as a permanently irritable Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff back in Washington DC. In fairness, he has much to be irritable about.

For one thing, World War III appears to be kicking off under the Barents Sea, where someone is firing missiles at both Russian and American subs. For another, he simply cannot get his hair under control.

No matter how long he’s spent at the Pentagon, barking at assorted admirals, he always looks as if he’s just got out of bed. The problem at the root of most of this, if not Oldman’s unruly barnet, is a megalomaniac Russian defence minister (Mikhail Gorevoy), who plans to topple his own president (Alexander Diachenko) by destabilising U.S.-Russia relations.

Glass’s job is to rescue the Russian president and blow the dastardly defence minister to kingdom come, neither of which is all that easy from a submarine. But, handily, he has the help of a doughty bunch of Navy Seals, led by a man even squarer-jawed than he is, played by Toby Stephens.

It’s enjoyably preposterous stuff, unashamedly alpha-male U.S. jingoism (despite the British leads) conducted with a certain elan by director Donovan Marsh.

The script is as ludicrous as the plot — nobody says ‘let’s go’ when they can John Wayne-ishly say ‘waddya say we get the hell out of here’.

But it’s done with such a defiant swagger that, despite all my better instincts, I liked it.

====== 2781 ========

BRIAN VINER REVIEWS PETER JACKON'S COLOURISED WW1 DOCUMENTARY THEY SHALL NOT GROW OLD

They Shall Not Grow Old (15), review by Brian Viner

Rating:

There have been many harrowing dramas about the Great War, but Peter Jackson’s extraordinary documentary, which had its world premiere last night as part of the London Film Festival, is as close as we can come now to seeing it as it was lived, as it was endured.

I watched it next to my son, a young adult who has known no existential horror greater than double maths on a Monday morning, and I confess to shedding a tear at the thought of what, a century ago, might have been.

There is one particular moment that is both profoundly moving and utterly electrifying. It is the point at which the grainy black-and-white footage of soldiers preparing for war becomes colourised, and we start to hear – or think we hear – them talk.

If you are lucky enough to see the film in 3D, it is also the point at which that kicks in. It is a gasp-inducing moment.

There have been many harrowing dramas about the Great War, but Peter Jackson’s extraordinary documentary, which had its world premiere last night as part of the London Film Festival, is as close as we can come now to seeing it as it was lived, as it was endured

I watched it next to my son, a young adult who has known no existential horror greater than double maths on a Monday morning, and I confess to shedding a tear at the thought of what, a century ago, might have been

Jackson, a New Zealander whose British father emigrated there because he so admired what his father had told him about the bravery of Kiwi soldiers in the trenches, is best known for directing the Lord of the Rings movies. Yet here is a film that is the very opposite of fantasy. There has never been a piece of cinema that better conveys the slaughter, the discomfort, but also the camaraderie, the humour and even the boredom of the Western Front.

For all the computerised bells and whistles Jackson deploys, along with the painstaking colourisation of the original film, to make these long-dead men come alive again, They Shall Not Grow Old – its title adapted from Laurence Binyon’s poem For The Fallen – is a marvel of simplicity.

There is no narrator, no solemn-voiced Kenneth Branagh or basso-profundo Ian McKellen. Instead, in collaboration with the Imperial War Museum, Jackson uses film and sound archive to their greatest imaginable effect, marrying incredible moving pictures with more than 150 personal testimonies recorded decades after the carnage, played one after another for 100 enthralling minutes.

Jackson, a New Zealander whose British father emigrated there because he so admired what his father had told him about the bravery of Kiwi soldiers in the trenches, is best known for directing the Lord of the Rings movies

‹ Slide me › Yet here is a film that is the very opposite of fantasy. There has never been a piece of cinema that better conveys the slaughter, the discomfort, but also the camaraderie, the humour and even the boredom of the Western Front

Actually, for most of these old soldiers, the carnage is not what they choose to remember. They prefer to recall the laughs, the lice, even the latrines.

This is not really a film about the Somme or Passchendaele. It’s about how troops would urinate on their boots to make the leather more pliable; how Friday was the day for the reviled Army-issue cigarettes; how plum duff was a rare treat; how, to get them advancing quickly and cheerfully, officers would let them kick a football around.

Held spellbound by all this, we notice the small things too. It’s a trite observation but absolutely everyone who sees this film – and absolutely everyone should – will notice the rather terrible standards of early 20th century dentistry. No drama has ever come close to getting that part right.

Occasionally Jackson cheats a little, matching voices to the soldiers that we know can’t have been theirs, because the talkies hadn’t yet been invented. But he does it beautifully; indeed, this is a manifest labour of love, a film dedicated to his soldier grandfather.

For all the computerised bells and whistles Jackson deploys, along with the painstaking colourisation of the original film, to make these long-dead men come alive again, They Shall Not Grow Old – its title adapted from Laurence Binyon’s poem For The Fallen – is a marvel of simplicity

The film is chronological, starting with the desperate recruitment drive in 1914 and early 1915, and ending with the Armistice, which was greeted almost with disinterest by soldiers weary to their boots of war. Of those early months of the conflict, one man recalls how he tried to sign up when he was just 15 and told wryly to ‘go outside and have a birthday’.

Another concedes that ‘we really were a motley throng’, and so they were. But what sacrifices they made, that motley throng, and what an absence of self-pity they exhibit in recalling them.

An absence of hatred too, oddly enough. We see pictures of English Tommies fraternising happily with German PoWs. They recognised that here were men just like them, sent to their deaths by generals and politicians.

‘It was that Serbia business, wasn’t it, when that chap was shot,’ says one man early in the film, trying to explain how it all began. It sounds just as absurd now as it did then.

They Shall Not Grow Old is on nationwide release now.

====== 2782 ========

BAZ BAMIGBOYE: JOHN DAVID WASHINGTON ON SPIKE LEE NEW FILM BLACKKKLANSMAN

When John David Washington talked to director Spike Lee about portraying a black Seventies-era policeman who infiltrated the Ku Klux Klan in Colorado, the actor thought something didn't smell right.

'I was like: 'Is this a crazy Spike Lee joint?' Washington told me, when we talked about the unbelievably cool picture BlacKkKlansman which was a hit at the Cannes Film Festival (it won the festival's Grand Prix honour) and which opens here on August 24.

The actor, 34 tomorrow, made his screen debut playing a schoolboy in Lee's 1992 film Malcolm X.

But he was surprised when, 26 years later, the film-maker contacted him out of the blue. 'I got this text: 'Yo, it's Spike. Call me.'

Seventies vibe: John David Washington (right) and BlacKkKlansman co-star Adam Driver

Lee proceeded to tell Washington, a former American football player, the story of Ron Stallworth, an undercover officer with Colorado Springs Police Department who, in 1979, set about infiltrating the local chapter of the white supremacist group.

'I said to Spike: 'This is crazy!' But it's all there in black and white in Stallworth's memoir.

After spotting an advertisement for new Klansmen in a local newspaper, he came up with a plan.

One that required him to change his vocal delivery and speak as though he was Caucasian.

'Once I read the book, I admired the man, and felt he was extremely brave,' Washington said.

'When I later spoke with Ron Stallworth, he brushed that kind of talk aside and said he'd received a lot of help. He just felt he was doing his job.'

Now you're all thinking: how could a black man con his way into the KKK?

Stallworth did the talking over the telephone, to hide his identity, and a white fellow officer — played in the film by Adam Driver — went to the meetings, pretending to be him.

Lee has taken that tale and fashioned it into one of the year's best films. It resonates powerfully in the era of Trump, a president who has seemingly aligned himself with the far-Right in the United States.

As much as BlacKkKlansman reflects current events, though, it's still rooted in the Seventies, and Washington duly got into the spirit of the times.

White supremacists: A still from BlacKkKlansman shows members of the KKK worshiping a burning cross

'The hair and the beard and the beads . . . we were cool, and fully absorbed in the era,' he said.

He also watched old footage from Soul Train. 'I stopped listening to my rap and got into the music of the period.'

Story and music blend seamlessly in one extraordinary scene in which Stallworth moves on his infiltration plan while also courting a civil rights leader, played by Laura Harrier.

It all goes down to the sound of Too Late To Turn Back Now, a 1972 soul hit by Cornelius Brothers & Sister Rose.

Washington praised Lee for being brave enough to cast him. He'd worked, successfully, on the TV series Ballers but was still, relatively speaking, a newbie.

Topher Grace as KKK chief David Duke in BlacKkKlansman

'We'd been shooting for four days and I was anxious about how I was doing. Spike comes over and says: 'Put some bass in your voice.' That was it. He's a genius, because then I knew what I had to do.'

You've probably worked out that John David Washington is the son of Denzel Washington and his actress wife, Pauletta.

'I wanted to be an actor my entire life,' John David said. 'But I wanted to do it on my own, so I started right at the bottom.

'I earned those roles on the TV. I didn't want my parents to open any doors. I'm as happy as can be that I went out and worked, that I've faced rejection.

'I'm proud of what my parents have attained in this business, but I wanted to do this my way.'

I predict we'll be seeing a lot more of Mr John David Washington.

There are special preview screenings of BlacKkKlansman, including a live satellite Q&A with Spike Lee, on August 20. Visit Blackkklansman Screening.co.uk.

Tom Cruise has been lauded for the astonishing athletic stunts he pulls off in the grade-A popcorn thriller Mission: Impossible —Fallout

Tom Cruise has been lauded for the astonishing athletic stunts he pulls off in the grade-A popcorn thriller Mission: Impossible —Fallout, which also stars Henry Cavill, Rebecca Ferguson, Vanessa Kirby (super lethal as the White Widow), Ving Rhames and Simon Pegg.

However, athletic as he is, Cruise is 56, and all the chatter about a possible MI7 is causing concern because he isn't available for two or three years — and will he want to be leaping off rooftops at 60?

In the meantime, see an IMAX version of the current Mission: Impossible if you can. It looks terrific on a giant screen.

====== 2783 ========

JUDI DENCH'S DAUGHTER FOLLOWS IN HER FOOTSTEPS BY STARRING IN PACK OF LIES REMAKE

Finty Williams will recreate a stage role made famous by her mother Judi Dench in a play which also starred her late father.

The actress will appear in Hugh Whitemore’s 1983 drama Pack Of Lies next month at the Menier Chocolate Factory in Southwark. The piece is layered with poignancy because the playwright died just two weeks ago.

‘It’s spooky,’ Finty said about the production in which her parents, Judi and Michael Williams, played Bob and Barbara Jackson, asked to spy on their neighbours (and best friends) who are suspected of being Soviet spies.

‘It’s an amazingly daunting prospect to play any part you’ve seen someone else play brilliantly,’ said Finty, who told me she was about ten when she first saw her parents in Pack Of Lies.

Finty Williams will recreate a stage role made famous by her mother Judi Dench in a play which also starred her late father. The piece is layered with poignancy because the playwright died just two weeks ago

She said she remembered them being ‘really amazing’. ‘I read the script the other day and I can hear Mamma’s voice doing it. What an amazing thrill to be doing something they did. I’m slightly overwhelmed in a wow sort of way,’ said the actress, who’s been busy recording an audio version of Elisabeth Noreback’s Tell Me You’re Mine.

When did she tell her mother? ‘Oh, mate, I was on the phone within five minutes!’ She reflected for a moment and told me: ‘It must be very strange for her. Your children grow up and they’re of an age that you can very much remember being.’

Williams, 45, added: ‘I don’t think Mamma thinks of it being that long ago, really. Bless her, she still thinks I can play Juliet. I don’t know under what lighting I can play Juliet. Maybe with a small night light illuminating the stage.’ Finty said she was not planning on asking for help from her mum unless ‘I come up against something I don’t know how to do’.

She said she remembered them being ‘really amazing’. ‘I read the script the other day and I can hear Mamma’s voice doing it. What an amazing thrill to be doing something they did.

She does not want to be a carbon copy of her mother in the show and is aware there will be those who make comparisons. ‘But I’m not her.’

David Babani, who runs the Menier Chocolate Factory, where the play will preview from September 20, said it’s a pertinent political piece about lying (think Trump and Brexit).

Director Hannah Chissick will start rehearsals towards the end of August and has just added Jasper Britton to the cast. He’ll play the British intelligence officer the Jacksons report to on the activities of their neighbours.

Watch out for...

Laura Pradelska who played Quaithe (a Shadowbinder who had the gift of prophecy) in Game Of Thrones. She will star with Jaymes Sygrove in the world premiere of A Small House At The Edge Of The World by Chris Lee.

The new play charts the fluctuations of a romantic relationship. Directed by Ken McClymont, it will begin performances at the Tabard Theatre in West London from September 12.

I remember seeing Ms Pradelska in Judgment At Nuremberg, at what used to be the Tricycle Theatre. The venue reopens in September as The Kiln — with a new auditorium, bars, cafe and cracking new ‘facilities’. First production will be Alexis Zegerman’s brand spanking new play Holy Sh!t.

Breathe, a new play by George Jaques, is raw and potent. Mr Jaques, 18, also produced the one-act work, sensitively directed by Hannah Hauer-King at The Bunker in Southwark. It follows young people struggling with three disparate situations — a schoolgirl and her callous teacher; two brothers coping with the loss of parents; and a young man in agony over a girl. The cast includes Jaques, Elizabeth Brierley, Douglas Clarke-Wood, Byron Easmon, Gus Flind-Henry and Martha Hay. The production supports the NSPCC’s childline.

====== 2784 ========

MOST POPULAR NEWS STORIES

As the adaptation of a John le Carré novel, The Little Drummer Girl, keeps audiences on the edge of their seats, Christopher Stevens discovers that the author himself is as complex as any of the characters he created

