Archaeologists have been making discoveries near the site since the 19th century, and Mostafa al-Waziri, who led the mission, said there was still more to be found.

'This is a very promising area. We expect to find more,' Al-Waziri told reporters at the site.

'What we see above the earth's surface in Egypt doesn't exceed 40 percent of what the core holds.'

====== 1669 ========

IMAC, IJUMPER AND ISHORTS: WHEN APPLE MADE CLOTHES

When Apple WASN’T cool: Clothing back catalogue reveals designs that were more geek than chic



It is a brand that is known for its stylish sleek designs.

But as these pictures show Apple hasn’t always been on the ball with every one of its products.

Unearthed from a 1986 catalogue these loud designs are a far cry from the understated, simple look of Apple technology.

Loud designs: The casual sports clothes were unveiled in Apple's 1986 Mac catalogue

Meant to be sports-casual the designs might embarrass company bosses with their naff large logos and clashing colours.

From caps to sweatshirts the Apple logo is emblazoned all over the designs, even undergoing a kooky redesign for one T-shirt.

The pictures were unearthed by a fashion blogger and although the collection mainly focuses on sportswear there are a couple of smarter items.



One commenter wrote on The Trad: 'Most of that Apple clothing is just funny. Kind of ironic that Jobs went with the anti-fashion mock turtle neck and jeans look.'

Computer T-shirt: Some of the designs couldn't be more different from the sleek items associated with the brand

Hats off to you: The sports caps are a far cry from the sleek, simple designs usually associated with the brand

Keeping it colourful: The designs were sold for between $15 and $47

Kooky: It is not clear how popular these outfits were but the Apple logo seems to have undergone a bit of transformation in the bottom T-shirt

The designs are a far cry from the technology giant’s founder Steve Jobs’ own fashion choices.

He was famously known to sport a plain turtleneck and jeans.

And although it is not clear how popular the Apple collection was the designs don't seem to have set the fashion world alight as the company no longer makes clothes.

Another blogger said: 'My Dad was a low level exec at Apple in the 80s, and as a result the items from the apple collection dominate my father's hat/belt/polo wardrobe in most of our family photos from the era.'

Nautical: A red, blue and white theme, the catalogue also offered designs in children's sizes

For the office? Designs were also smart and made from natural materials



====== 1670 ========

MOTHER OF 20-MONTH-OLD TWINS WHO BOTH HAVE CEREBRAL PALSY IS RAISING £97,000 FOR SURGERY

The mother of 20-month-old twins who were both born with cerebral palsy is trying to raise £97,000 for private treatment because she doesn't want to wait for the NHS.

Nicola Johnston, mother of Matthew and Lucy, says her infants won't be put on the health service's waiting list until they are three, and could then face a six-year wait.

Instead, Mrs Johnston, 42, says she is 'determined' to raise money to pay for private surgery to give the children a chance at walking before they start school.

Surgery to cut nerves in the children's spines and loosen up their stiff muscles will cost £48,500 per child but Mrs Johnston and her husband, David, 41, said they will 'do everything we can' to give their toddlers a normal life.

20-month-old twins Lucy and Matthew Johnston, (pictured with parents Nicola, 42, and David, 41) were both born with cerebral palsy and diagnosed around six months ago

'To find out that one child has cerebral palsy is a shock to your system,' said Mrs Johnston, from Farnborough in Hampshire.

'To find out that both of your twins have it is unheard of. When we found out, it broke me for a bit. But then it made me stronger.

'I was so determined they were going to overcome it that I dismissed all the doubt in my mind that they were never going to walk or do the things other children can do.'

Lucy was diagnosed with cerebral palsy caused by a condition called periventricular leukomalacia (PVL) – a brain injury caused at birth – when she was 14 months old.

Her parents noticed when she appeared to be developing more slowly than her brother, Matthew.

But when doctors examined Matthew as well they found he had spastic diplegia, a form of cerebral palsy making his legs too stiff and weak for him to stand.

Lucy is the worst affected – she cannot move her legs properly, struggles to sit up on her own and cannot react quickly enough to stop herself falling over.

Doctors believe specialist surgery called a selective dorsal rhizotomy will enable Matthew to move on his own, and the same surgery could help his sister too.

But Mrs Johnston said her twins can only join the NHS waiting list when they turn three years old.

And even then they could face a further six-year wait until they can receive the surgery, she claims.

But the NHS disputes Mrs Johnston's claim of a six-year waiting list, saying the current wait is 14 months.

Lucy (left) and Matthew (right) both suffer from muscle stiffness as a result of their conditions, meaning Matthew cannot stand on his own and Lucy, who is paralysed from the waist down, struggles to sit upright without help

Mrs Johnston says the NHS could leave the children waiting seven years for a spinal procedure to loosen up their muscles because they cannot be put on the waiting list until their third birthday

'The NHS, as much as I love them and think they're amazing, it's just a constant battle with them,' said Mrs Johnston.

'The waiting list is so long that it's cutting out nine years of my child's life. Children are children, and they learn so much even in a year.

WHAT IS CEREBRAL PALSY? Cerebral palsy is the umbrella term for a number of brain conditions that affect movement and coordination. Specifically, it is caused by a problem in the parts of the brain responsible for controlling muscles. The condition can occur if the brain develops abnormally or is damaged before, during or shortly after birth. One in every 400 children in the UK are thought to be born with cerebral palsy, meaning around 1,800 children a year have the condition. It's estimated that 764,000 children and adults in the US have one or more symptoms of the disorder. There's no cure for cerebral palsy, but some treatments are available to ease symptoms, such as physiotherapy. Life expectancy is usually unaffected, however, the emotional and physical strain can put a great deal of stress on the body which can cause further problems in later life.

'In this short space of time, Matthew has realised that other children his age are running around and kicking footballs, and he doesn't understand why he can't.

'I am determined that both of them will walk by the time they are five years old. That is my goal. I think they deserve that chance. Every child deserves that chance.'

The couple have already raised more than £10,000 of the first £50,000 they hope to use to treat their son, Matthew.

But it is not certain whether Lucy will be eligible for the operation because her condition, so she will be reassessed when she turns three years old.

If doctors say the procedure could help her, too, the Johnstons will need to raise another £48,500 for her treatment.

'The day either of my children take their first steps it will be probably the best day of my life, and that even comes after marrying my husband,' Mrs Johnston said.

'He's in total agreement. To see them do that will be everything that we are about right now.

'That's what we're trying to promote at the moment, that all children deserve to be able to be children. To cut that off by seven or eight years is sacrilege to me.'

Lucy suffers from stiffness and muscle spasms all over her body and her development is six months behind Matthew, who is already eight months behind other children their age.

Mr and Mrs Johnston are trying to raise £48,500 so they can pay for surgery for their son, Matthew (right), who doctors believe would definitely benefit from it, and they may need to raise the same amount for Lucy if it is decided it would help her, too

Matthew's upper body is not affected by his cerebral palsy but his legs are too weak for him to stand on his own, whereas Lucy suffers from stiffness and muscle spasms across her whole body

The proposed selective dorsal rhizotomy (SDR) surgery would involve cutting nerve roots in the children's spinal cords to loosen their muscles and enable them to move more freely.

Mrs Johnston, who is an accountant, said: 'The operation petrifies me if I'm honest.

'It's an operation they do on the child's back – the only way the consultant described it to me was like defusing a bomb.

'He said if you cut the wrong lead the child is paralysed for life and there's no reversing at all. It's a big operation.'

Mrs Johnston said it's 'very rare' for both twins to have cerebral palsy, but admits the children 'are not hard work' and she and her husband will 'do everything we can to get our children to where they should be'

Mrs Johnston said it's 'a very rare thing' to have twins who both have cerebral palsy, and there are noticeable differences between the pair.

Lucy is so stiff she's 'like a pencil' and cannot talk, but is smiley and laid-back, her mother says.

Whereas Matthew is the vocal one who 'does the babbling for both of them' and goes 'head first into everything'.

'They are both amazing children,' Mrs Johnston said. 'They are not hard work – everyone says to me they must be hard work. They're not, they're my children.

'We will do everything we can to get our children to where they should be.'

Lucy has to be strapped into a chair to stop her falling over but it can restrict her so much she cannot play with her brother, Mrs Johnston said.

This is frustrating for the tot because 'there's nothing wrong with her intelligence-wise', she said.

Mrs Johnston (pictured holding her twins) said 'they are both amazing children' and she is determined to enable them both to walk by the time they're five years old

Mrs Johnston said Lucy (left), who cannot talk and is six months behind her brother in terms of development, is the 'cautious' one of the pair, while Matthew (right) 'goes head first into everything'

But despite baby Lucy not being able to talk yet and struggling to move freely, Mrs Johnston claims the twins are already a team.

She said: 'They're the kindest, most loving children ever. They both have the most infectious laugh you could ever imagine.

'Lucy's our little stunner and ray of sunshine that people always wave at and makes people's days.

'Matthew will go head first into everything whereas Lucy is the one that will grab hold of him and pull him back.

'She's the cautious one and he's the not so cautious one. They're very different in personalities, very similar in looks.

'No matter what people give or say, we're just so grateful that they're giving us this money.

'It's a big operation and I think it will one day be bigger in the UK, but unfortunately for our children it just hasn't come around quick enough.'

A spokesperson for NHS England said: 'The NHS made selective dorsal rhizotomy routinely available in July this year alongside a host of other new treatments that could help thousands of patients and the current waiting list is 14 months not six years.

'The complex surgery is available for children aged three and over after the NHS examined the latest evidence of the safety and effectiveness of the procedure.'

You can donate to Lucy and Matthew's cause on their parents' JustGiving page here.

====== 1671 ========

HEARTWARMING FOOTAGE SHOWS SEVEN-YEAR-OLD BOY'S FIRST STEPS IN HIS PROSTHETIC LEGS

Heartwarming footage shows a seven-year-old boy's first steps in his prosthetic legs after losing his limbs as a toddler to a one-in-a-million disease.

Romeo Hadley, from Cardiff, was just three years old when he experienced leg pain, bruises and flu-like symptoms.

After being rushed to A&E, the youngster was diagnosed with the rare condition purpura fulminans, which caused the bottom of his legs to become gangrenous.

Doctors were forced to amputate from just above the knee to save Romeo's life.

After spending six months recovering in hospital, Romeo, who was adopted when he was two, was finally able to go home but did not get fitted with prosthetics until October 2017.

His mother, Katie Hadley, 46, shared a video of the moment her son took his first steps without a frame.

Romeo was forced to have his legs amputated at just three years old due to the rare condition purpura fulminans. He is pictured on his stumps after the procedure

Picture shows the emotional moment Romeo first stood in his prosthetic legs in October 2017

Romeo's parents Katie and Jonathan Hadley, also 46, rushed their son to A&E when he took a turn for the worse as a toddler.

While at hospital, he was diagnosed with the rare thrombotic condition, which affects around one in every 500,000-to-one million births, according to Medscape.

The life-threatening disorder manifests as blood spots, bruising and discolouration of the skin. Without treatment, the affected skin can become gangrenous.

'It's usually fatal, so he's an extremely lucky boy to be alive today', Mrs Hadley told the BBC.

Once diagnosed, doctors cut into his legs to try and relieve the pressure in the hope this would slow the progression of the disease, but it did little to ease his suffering.

'Day by day they were telling us not to think past the hour because he might not be with us,' Mr Hadley said.

In the end, Romeo was forced to have his limbs amputated in order to save his life.

'It was horrendous and I will never forget it', Mrs Hadley said.

'Although that sounds devastating and awful we took him home and that was enough for us.'

Romeo had to be anaesthetised for three of the six months he spent recovering in hospital while he underwent regular dressing changes.

'He had lost so much tissue and muscle so he had intense skin grafts', Mrs Hadley added.

'We needed to wait for this to heal and Romeo also had to have a stoma to avoid infection in his stumps and buttocks.'

A stoma is an artificial opening that allows faeces or urine from the intestine or from the urinary tract to pass out of the body.

Romeo spent six months in hospital (pictured) having skin grafts and his dressings changed

'It was horrendous and I will never forget it': Katie Hadley (pictured left), mother of Romeo, remembers being told Romeo would lose his legs. He is pictured right at home after he adjusted to life moving about on his hands and stumps after the amputation

WHAT IS PURPURA FULMINANS? Purpura fulminans is a rare syndrome that affects approximately one in every 500,000 to one million births, according to Medscape, with only a few cases have been reported in adults. It is a rapidly progressing life-threatening disorder. It is normally caused by a defect in the protein C system - which inhibits blood clotting. This defect can be for a variety of reasons, such as a natural mutation in genes, or severe lack of availability in blood due to liver failure. It manifests as blood spots, skin lesions, bruising and discolouration of the skin. Lesions often progress within 24 to 48 hours to skin or tissue necrosis, which is the death of most or all of the cells in an organ or tissue due to disease, injury, or failure of the blood supply. These can take between four to eight weeks to heal. Without treatment, these areas may become gangrenous, leading to loss of limbs. Purpura fulminans is also linked to multiple organ failure, and causes initial high mortality and long-term morbidity in survivors. Purpura fulminans is a presenting feautre of severe acute sepsis.

When Romeo eventually left hospital, he struggled to sit up due to him spending so much time lying down.

'We didn’t know if this was reversible but with time and encouragement he started building up his confidence and muscles', Mrs Hadley said.

'He gets around very quickly now.'

'They thought he could possibly be bedridden for the rest of his life. As time progressed he's proved everybody wrong and he's very mobile.'

Prosthetic legs had to be attached to a belt around Romeo's stomach.

Medics were therefore forced to wait for his stoma to be reversed before fitting the youngster with the artifical limbs.

He eventually had plaster moulds for his prosthetics taken in March last year, with him finally standing in them for the first time that October.

Mrs Hadley said: 'Jon and I were emotional wrecks. This is the moment Romeo went from "they aren't my real legs" to "I'm as tall as my friends".

'He had us all laughing with this sense of humour and loves his Adidas trainers.'

Although he stayed light-hearted, Romeo struggled to walk in his prosthetics after being dependent on a wheelchair.

'Romeo's stumps are very small and his prosthetic legs are heavy. To use them he has to use 100 per cent concentration,' Mrs Hadley said.

'The mechanism on the leg needs him to use the heel of his foot to keep them straight and the ball of his foot to unlock and bend.

'For him to achieve 20 minutes a day is quite amazing.'

Romeo is pictured playing catch with his dog while at home on his stumps

Mrs Hadley arranged for him to start taking his prosthetics to school, saying 'children are more compliant in that setting'.

And last month, she received a video of Romeo walking without a frame with the help of his teacher.

'I was blown away,' she said. 'My husband and I, our whole family, [my daughter] Seren, everyone, was so emotional to see how well he's done.

'They may not be functional for every day purpose, but it's making him have a core, which allows him to feel that he's walking.

'If he can do that now, what can he do in the future?'

Romeo's father John Hadley, sister Seren and mother Katie (all pictured), were blown away when they received a video of Romeo walking on his prosthetic legs for the first time at school

Romeo loves playing football and dreams of one day being a professional basketball player.

'My husband and I are here to just make him psychologically strong enough to cope with life in the future,' Mrs Hadley said.

'Romeo loves life, he's gorgeous, and he's absolutely the happiness in this house.

'He gets on with life… he enjoys every single moment.'

The family are also excited by how technology in prosthetics may progress over the next 20 years as Romeo grows up.

'That's what we're holding out for,' Mrs Hadley said. 'We stay very positive for Romeo because he is positive.'

====== 1672 ========

TRAINING NURSES IN EASTERN EUROPE 'COULD SOLVE THE NHS STAFFING CRISIS'

Training nurses in Eastern Europe and hiring them in the NHS could fix the health service's staffing crisis, recruiters claim.

The cost of training a nurse in Poland is a third of what it is in the UK and 'not enough people want to go into nursing' here, a London-based agency has said.

As many as 40,000 extra nurses could be hired from universities around the EU if the NHS would agree to help educate and employ them.

But Hunter Miller, the agency suggesting the link-up, said NHS bosses haven't warmed to the idea despite their ongoing struggle to recruit more staff.

Uncertainty about Brexit could be putting hospitals off the idea, but the agency said hospitals hadn't said this explicitly.

The suggestion comes after the Nursing and Midwifery Council this week announced English language tests will be made easier to encourage foreign nurses, and figures recently revealed there are 42,000 vacant nursing posts in the NHS.

Recruiting nurses from Eastern Europe could help plug the staffing gap, according to a recruiter who said the prospect of a job in the NHS would encourage more people to train as nurses in countries like Poland and Bulgaria – there are currently around 42,000 vacant nursing job posts in the NHS

'The problem in the UK is that not enough people want to go into nursing,' Nick Miller, general manager for international recruitment at Hunter Miller, told the Nursing Times.

'In Poland there are plenty of people who would go into nursing, but they can go and work in a shop and get just as much money quickly without having to go through a training programme.'

Mr Miller suggested his company could link NHS trusts to universities and colleges across the EU to train and recruit more nurses for the UK.

People living in those countries would be offered jobs in the NHS which would both fill vacant training places in Europe and vacant jobs in the UK.

In exchange for the job offer the NHS would be allowed some control over what was taught in the training courses, to match them to UK requirements.

But uncertainty over the future of the NHS and foreign relations after Brexit could be making the health service hesitant to commit to the idea.

The number of EU nurses registering to work in the NHS fell dramatically in the six months after the Brexit vote.

And senior nurses have warned the health service will be hit harder if the Government doesn't guarantee staff from overseas can stay after Brexit.

It was revealed this month that some NHS hospitals will be forking out for visas so they can keep nursing staff from the European Union.

Three hospital trusts in London have agreed to pay for the visas of 1,300 EU staff to keep them in work, which is expected to cost more than £100,000.

Mr Miller believes more people in the EU would train to become nurses if they knew it came with a realistic prospect of working in the NHS, where pay is higher.

'If they can get £2,000 a month as opposed to 400 Euros and someone like me can say, "these are all the jobs you can do once you qualify as registered nurse in the NHS’", they are going to think about it,' he said.

HOW BAD IS THE NURSING CRISIS? The shortage of NHS staff in England is continuing to worsen, official figures show. Figures published by the regulator, NHS Improvement, for the April to June period showed that 11.8% of nurse posts were not filled - a shortage of nearly 42,000. According to Health Education England, around 33,000 of these positions are filled temporarily by agency staff – an unwelcome extra expense for local NHS trusts. A report by three leading health sector think-tanks estimates that if demand rises as predicted, the NHS will need 250,000 additional staff by 2030. But if skilled workers cannot be attracted from abroad the shortage could reach 350,000 – roughly a quarter of the 1.2million workforce. Experts say low pay and long hours are two of the main factors which make finding nursing staff difficult. This, paired with student debt, makes the profession unappealing for young people. Of those quitting, more than half are under 40, with many citing stress and rising workloads for being behind their decision to leave. In January the Royal College of Nursing warned the NHS was 'haemorrhaging nurses', as around 3,000 more nurses quit their jobs than started new ones in 2017.

Mr Miller said he already has five colleges in Poland and Bulgaria, and two NHS hospitals, in discussions, but has been 'astonished' by the lack of interest here.

For years the NHS has been struggling to recruit enough nurses and the Royal College of Nursing said a recent rise in job adverts was 'very worrying'.

In January the body said the NHS was 'haemorrhaging nurses', as around 3,000 more nurses quit their jobs than started new ones in 2017.

Many job vacancies are filled by temporary agency staff, who are more expensive because agencies have to be paid finders' fees on top of staff wages.

The NHS is keen to encourage more foreign nurses to apply for jobs and the Nursing and Midwifery Council this week revealed it would make English language tests easier.

They have proposed a slight drop in the level of written English required – from level seven to 6.5 – because applicants from abroad are 'just missing out' on current requirements.

Fewer people are applying to nursing courses at universities, too, after the Government stopped offering a funding bursary to help students afford tuition.

Previously, student nurses could expect up to £6,500 a year from the NHS to help fund their three-year degree, but this was scrapped in 2017.

'It costs a third of the price to train a nurse in Poland than it does in the NHS,' Mr Miller added.

He explained foreign governments might take issue with the UK poaching their nurses, but said even reimbursing some of the cost of university courses could be cheaper than the NHS training its own nurses.

'There is no reason why the NHS could not do deals with the national health services of Poland or Hungary to say, "for each nurse that is employed by the NHS, we’ll reimburse you some of the cost per year of the training of that nurse",' he told the Nursing Times.

Mr Miller said the fact his agency isn't a mainstream supplier for the NHS, or uncertainty over Brexit, could be reasons why the NHS hasn't taken up his offer.

He has spoken to more than 30 hospitals and NHS Improvement, Health Education England, NHS England and the Royal College of Nursing but 'gained no traction whatsoever'.

Hunter Miller has already worked with the North East and East Midlands ambulance services to hire, train and relocate paramedics from EU countries.

And because the training would focus on extra English language skills and integrating employees, he believes new hires would be more likely to stay long-term.

Mr Miller said one of the hospitals he is in negotiations with already has 450 empty nursing jobs.

He believes linking up with European institutions can 'get rid of that problem once and for all' then scale up to the wider NHS.

====== 1673 ========

THOUSANDS OF WOMEN 'DYING FROM HEART ATTACKS NEEDLESSLY BECAUSE THEY GET WORSE CARE THAN MEN'

Thousands of women are needlessly dying from heart attacks because they receive worse care than men, a major study has found.

Poor treatment contributed to the deaths of more than 8,200 women in England and Wales over a ten-year period, the research reveals.

It found many people – doctors and patients alike – assume heart disease is a male problem, while women are more likely to put heart attack symptoms down to minor problems such as indigestion or muscle pain, and delay seeking help.

But even when they do get to hospital, doctors often misdiagnose the problem, meaning women are twice as likely as men to have their heart attack initially missed.

That in itself can be fatal, because every minute treatment is delayed decreases survival chances.

Study leader Professor Chris Gale, a consultant cardiologist at Leeds University, said: ‘There is still this misperception that men have heart attacks and women do not. If you miss an opportunity to treat at the beginning, those may have a knock-on impact later.’

Even when female patients do get to hospital, doctors often misdiagnose the problem, meaning women are twice as likely as men to have their heart attack initially missed, the study found

The study found that even when a heart attack was diagnosed, women were treated slower than men, were less likely to receive lifesaving scans and tests, and even after being discharged many were denied vital drugs or access to rehabilitation programmes.

About 69,000 women have a heart attack in Britain each year, and 119,000 men.

Professor Gale’s team found women were more than twice as likely as men to die within a month of a heart attack, but would have survived if they had received the same standard of treatment.

He stressed that the figure of 8,200 deaths was a ‘conservative estimate’ because the report included patients only with complete treatment records.

The study tracked 690,000 people treated in NHS hospitals after a heart attack between 2003 and 2013.

It analysed 13 aspects of each patient’s treatment – including scans, drugs and rehabilitation – that international guidelines recommend be given after heart attacks. Strikingly, in every single area, men were more likely to receive the correct treatment and got it quicker.

The study, published in the BMJ Heart journal, showed women were 34 per cent less likely than men to receive an angiogram within 72 hours of their first symptoms.

If a blockage in the heart was found, a procedure to remove the clot was not conducted for 46 minutes, compared to 44 minutes for men.

‘A two-minute delay may not seem like a lot,’ Professor Gale said, ‘but those two minutes might make a big difference when you are talking about recovery from a heart attack.’

Professor Sir Nilesh Samani, medical director of the British Heart Foundation, which funded the study, said: ‘We need to tackle the false perception that heart attacks are only a male health issue. This leads to inadequate care for women, with fatal consequences.’

Women’s life expectancy in Britain could begin to fall ‘for the first time in generations’ as the obesity epidemic takes hold, a major report on the health of the 28 EU countries revealed yesterday.

====== 1674 ========

KEEPING CHOLESTEROL LOW COULD REDUCE ALZHEIMER'S RISKS, STUDY SUGGESTS

The same genetic risk factors that make some people more vulnerable to high cholesterol may raise Alzheimer's risks, too, a new study suggests.

With the causes of Alzheimer's still unknown, scientists at the Washington University, St Louis, and the University of California, San Francisco are conducting the largest DNA study to date in search of pre-programmed risk factors.

We had already known that one gene linked to Alzheimer's risks codes for a molecule involved in the movement of cholesterol through the body.

The link between cholesterol and Alzheimer's may be even stronger than previously thought, however.

In the new genetic analysis, scientists discovered that a small group genes are linked to elevated risks for both Alzheimer's and heart disease.

In addition to the APOE4 gene (pictured) that we know raises heart disease and Alzheimer's risks, another nine DNA links between cholesterol and dementia have been discovererd

The prevalence of Alzheimer's disease is only expected to climb, steeply, as the American population ages and medicine continues to extend lifespans.

But longer lives mean more diseases of old age, including dementia and heart disease.

The development of these diseases may be partly predicted by our genes before we're even born - and by some of the same genes, no less.

A variant of the APOE4 gene, for example is currently one of the indicators of Alzheimer's risks that we know of.

This variant of APOE4 has been linked to a four-fold increase in risk for Alzheimer's disease.

Frustratingly, however, the gene variant is also found in healthy people, so it's far from a perfect predictor of the disease.

'The nature of a risk variant is that it's present in some healthy people, but we see a greater prevalence of it in people with disease,' explains study co-author and Washington University, St Louis psychiatrist.

It isn't entirely clear how this segment of DNA influences the brain and its functioning. But we do know how it relates to cardiovascular disease.

APOE4, when it is functioning properly, provides a recipe for a particular protein. That protein links up with fats (or lipids) to form lipoproteins. These molecules help to make sure that fats travel through the bloodstream as they should.

These water-soluble lipoproteins are crucial to making sure that 'good' cholesterol from fatty acids gets transported to tissues that soak them up for energy and that 'bad' cholesterol is rerouted back to the liver.

If bad cholesterol is not correctly navigated back to the liver, it can instead build up in the blood vessels, constricting the flow of blood through them.

This of course puts greater strain the heart which has to pump all he harder to push enough blood through the narrow passageways.

So those with a faulty variant of the gene are more likely to have higher cholesterol.

As it turns out, this may also have something to do with the accumulation of amyloid protein plaques in the brain, which scientists suspect is among the underlying causes of Alzheimer's.

By combing through DNA from 1.5 million people, the new study's authors found 90 DNA segments that they could link to people with heart disease risk factors, including diabetes, high cholesterol and high BMI.

Six of these seemed strongly predictive of both heart disease and Alzheimer's - further suggesting the connection between the transportation of lipids through the bloodstream and plaque formation in the blood.

'This study has done two things to really solidify this connection' between genes related to lipids and risks of heart disease and Alzheimer's, Dr Karch says.

'This shows that there are multiple genes that are contributing to risks for these cardiovascular traits that contribute to heart disease as well as Alzheimer's risks,' says Dr Karch.

'It also functionally falls into this pathway related to lipid metabolism and lipids in general [in both heart disease and Alzheimer's].'

And her study found these traits in a large sample, contributing to the weight the findings carry.

'Lipids are really important for normal health of cells of all types in your brain,' says Dr Karch.

'They play an important role in the ability of your cells to transport these disease-causing proteins as well as the ability of the cell to degrade these disease-causing proteins.'

The team also discovered that some gene variants related to the immune system raised Alzheimer's risks.

Dr Karch says that this doesn't mean everyone should rush off to get genetic tests.

'It's challenging to say now that a genetic test will give you a clear answer as to your certainty of developing Alzheimer's disease,' she says.

'But when we think about holistic health, treatments and preventative health can be crucial to taking care of of cardiovascular health, and [doing that] early may have benefits for cognitive health later in life.'

In theory, a low-fat diet would mean there would be less cholesterol that needed to be cleared out of the bloodstream, somewhat mitigating the importance of the genetically determined ability to transport cholesterol out of the blood.

If that theory plays out in our biology, then keeping cholesterol low might also help reduce the risk of amyloid proteins building up in the brain and reduce the risk of Alzheimer's.

That also suggests that drugs meant to control cholesterol may be useful tools for reducing Alzheimer's risks.

====== 1675 ========

FIRST NOSE DROP RICH IN 'GOOD BACTERIA' THAT COULD PREVENT DEADLY MENINGITIS BEING TRAILLED IN UK

A nose drop containing 'friendly' bacteria that could help prevent meningitis is being tested by UK doctors in a world-first trial.

The treatment, developed at the NIHR Southampton Biomedical Research Centre, involves a gene being inserted into a harmless form of bacteria.

This helps it to remain in the nose and prompts an immune response.

It is hoped this enhanced bacteria, known as Neisseria lactamica (Nlac), will protect against its close cousin, Neisseria meningitidis (N.meningitidis) - the strain responsible for meningitis.

Treatment test: Developed at the NIHR Southampton Biomedical Research Centre, drops involve a gene being inserted into a harmless form of bacteria then deposited in the nose

Around 10 per cent of adults carry the bacteria responsible for meningitis in the back of their noses and throats without any signs or symptoms.

However, in some, it can invade the bloodstream and cause life-threatening bacterial infections including meningitis and blood poisoning, which is known as septicaemia.

Meningitis occurs in people of all age groups but affects mainly babies, young children and the elderly.

Meningococcal meningitis, which is a bacterial form of the disease and is responsible for 1,500 cases a year in the UK, can cause death in as little as four hours from the onset of symptoms.

Professor Robert Read, director of the NIHR Southampton Biomedical Research Centre, said: 'We have already shown that placing Nlac in the nose of healthy adults caused no harm to the volunteers. The bacteria settled and it caused an immune response which prevented the acquisition of harmful bacteria in a number of patients.

'By enhancing Nlac with a gene which we know helps bacteria stick to human body cells in larger numbers, we can increase the number of people who carry this friendly bacteria in their nose and thus block out N.meningitidis which can cause invasive meningococcal disease.'

Deadly: Meningococcal meningitis (pictured stock) is responsible for 1,500 cases a year in the UK, can cause death in as little as four hours from the onset of symptoms

In a previous study, Professor Read's team found inoculating adults with an unmodified Nlac resulted in it settling harmlessly in the nose of a third of recipients and prevented them carrying N.meningitidis at the same time.

They hope genetically enhancing the bacteria with a 'sticky' surface protein from N.meningitidis will increase its ability to reside in the nose and generate a strong immune response that protects against the bacteria.

Professor Read, who worked on the project with Dr Jay Laver, senior research fellow at the University of Southampton, added: 'If successful, this would offer the potential to prevent the spread of infection or the ability to rapidly control an outbreak as meningococcal meningitis cannot develop in the absence of N.meningitidis.

'It would also mean we would then have a future therapy that we can adapt to combat other diseases caused by bacteria that breed in the nasal pathway such as pneumonia and ear disease.'

====== 1676 ========

BABY WHO WAS BORN WITH A BACK-TO-FRONT HEART DEFIES THE ODDS TO CELEBRATE HER FIRST BIRTHDAY

A baby girl who was born with a back-to-front heart has defied the odds after having surgery just a few hours old.

Alba Butler celebrated her first birthday despite her parents, Alejandra Garcia, 26, and Danny Butler, 30, being told she had a 50 per cent chance of survival.

When Alba was born she was blue from lack of oxygen, due to a rare condition called transposition of the great arteries (TGA), where the arteries leaving the heart are the wrong way round.

She was rushed to surgery as soon as she was born to create a hole in her heart to help oxygen-rich blood reach her fragile body.

Then eight days later, her distraught first-time parents, who were previously told they would never be able to conceive naturally, had to watch as their miracle daughter was taken in for nine-hour open heart surgery.

Alba Butler was born with a rare heart condition called transposition of the great arteries (TGA), where the arteries leaving the heart are the wrong way round. She had surgery a few hours old (pictured after) and open heart surgery eight days later

Alba's engaged parents, Alejandra Garcia, 26, and Danny Butler, 30, from Lancashire, were told their baby had a 50 per cent chance of survival

'She's thriving': Alba defied the odds and celebrated her first birthday this month

Miss Garcia and Mr Butler, from Thornton, Lancashire, were told they would never be able to conceive naturally, and were on the IVF waiting list.

Then, to their delight, Miss Garcia, who is engaged to Mr Butler, discovered she was pregnant at 10 weeks in May 2017.

But at their 20-week scan, the parents-to-be's joy was shattered when they were told their baby girl had transposition of the great arteries (TGA).

The condition is relatively common, according to NHS Choices, accounting for around 5% of cases of congenital heart disease, and affecting approx 20 to 30 per 100,000 live births.

Miss Garcia, who works in marketing, said: 'We found out about Alba's heart at her 20-week scan. We were so upset, I couldn't stop crying.

'Heart defects are so difficult to pick up on ultrasounds so it really is amazing that they found it.

'Neither of us had heard of TGA before which made it all so scary. My first thoughts were "we're going to have to terminate".

'After being told I would never conceive and then finding out I was pregnant with Alba, I knew it all felt too good to be true.'

But Alba was born via a planned cesarean at Liverpool Women's Hospital on November 15 2017 and rushed in an ambulance to Alder Hey Children's Hospital where she underwent her first operation.

'When they told us she would need to be to transferred and taken to theatre right away, they had to warn us that some babies don't make it.

'I couldn't believe it. I couldn't stop crying.

'When she was born, Alba was already quite blue from the lack of oxygen. She was so poorly she had to be taken straight to the ambulance waiting to transfer her for her first surgery.

'I didn't get to hold her, I just got to touch her finger as she was taken away.'

'I didn't get to hold her, I just got to touch her finger as she was taken away', Mrs Garcia remembers the moment Alba was taken to surgery straight after a c-section delivery

The mother, who was on the IVF waiting list after being told by doctors she would never conceive naturally, met her 'miracle' baby for the first time 39 hours after she was born

Alba after her nine-hour open heart surgery to reverse the heart condition

Doctor's warned Alba wouldn't reach her first birthday, but she 'exceeded all expectations'

The condition meant that Alba's pulmonary artery (which takes blood to the lungs to pick up oxygen) was switched with the and the aorta (which takes blood from the heart to the body).

Some babies with TGA also have a hole in their heart, called a ventricular septal defect (VSD), which allows the oxygenated and deoxygenated blood to mix.

But ultrasounds carried out every few weeks throughout Mrs Garcia's pregnancy showed Alba didn't have a VSD so no oxygen would get to her body when she was born.

Her first surgery was a Balloon Septostomy surgery to allow her blood to mix.

'When Alba came out of her first surgery, all I wanted was to hold her in my arms but I couldn't leave the hospital because I'd had major surgery.

'Danny was with her and sent me lots of pictures. The cardiac consultant even made the effort to come to my hospital room to explain it had all gone well which they didn't have to do.'

The parents' relief was short-lived as they then had to watch their newborn go for open heart surgery to reverse her condition.

Mrs Garcia said: 'When the nurses came to give me her gown to get her ready I just burst into tears.

'No gown should be made for a baby. Just looking at this tiny, tiny gown, I felt like I couldn't put her in it.

'Then I remember walking down this really long corridor with loads of doors to theatre and I could barely even see I was crying so much.

'I couldn't believe I was handing my baby over to strangers and I might never see her or hold her again. It was so surreal.

'She was in surgery for just under nine hours. When she came out they called Danny and he barged into the breastfeeding room where I was expressing milk.

'I just left the milk behind, I didn't care, and started running down the corridor.

'As soon as I could see her and see she was okay and breathing, I just can't even describe that feeling - it was a huge relief. I could replay that moment every day in my head.'

Alba has since been back at hospital with a fluid build up called chylothorax and pneumonia, but recovered well at Alder Hey Children Hospital, her mother, pictured, said

'I never thought she would even exist but she is here, fighting all the odds' Mrs Garcia said

Alba had her first birthday party last week despite doctors' warnings that Alba might not make it.

Mrs Garcia said: 'When we got Alba's diagnosis, we prepared ourselves for the worst but she has exceeded all our expectations. She's a little warrior. It sounds cheesy but she's my hero. We're so proud.

'We were told she might be a bit delayed with her development but she's reaching all her milestones.

'She had her flu jab the other day and most babies would scream and cry but she just looked at the nurse like 'I've been through more than this'.

'I never thought she would even exist but she is here, fighting all the odds.'

Alba's incredible recovery hasn't all been plain sailing as a month after her release from hospital in December 2017. She was back at hospital with a fluid build up called chylothorax and then contracted pneumonia.

But once again, with the help of the 'amazing' doctors and nurses at the hospital, Alba fought back and went home seven weeks later.

The mother said the hospital didn't just save her baby's life but hers too. 'I can't stress enough how amazing Alder Hey Children Hospital - and all the hospitals - have been', she said.

'At Alder Hey they're more like a family than a hospital. They even sent her a first birthday present which I cried my eyes out over.

'They are all just fabulous. I'm doing the Inka trail next year and I'm not fit so it's going to be a challenge but I don't think there's anything I could ever do to fully pay them back.

'I don't just owe them Alba's life, I feel like I owe them my life too.'

'Knowing that I never even thought I would be able to have a baby just makes Alba even more of a miracle.'

Mrs Garcia is walking the Inka trail next year to raise money for Alder Hey.

====== 1677 ========

FOUR-YEAR-OLD IS LEFT ON AN UNSTAFFED WARD AFTER A SIX HOUR OPERATION, MOTHER, 32, CLAIMS

A four-year-old boy was left on an unstaffed ward all night after a six-hour operation, his appalled mother has claimed.

Faye, 32, who declined to disclose her surname, was at her son's bedside at Russells Hall Hospital, West Midlands, on October 16 after he had a routine operation to control an ear infection.

Jackson reportedly went without any check-ups or medication all night. His mother was even forced to go looking for a nurse when emergency bells were ignored, only to find empty corridors.

Faye told MailOnline: 'The level of care from the nurses was despicable.'

Russells Hall Hospital in Dudley has been under investigation this year after inspectors rated its emergency care as 'inadequate' in a report.

Fifty-four deaths between January and June were ordered to be investigated by The Care Quality Commission (CQC).

Mother Faye, 32, claims her son, Jackson, was left unattended all night at Russells Hall Hospital, West Midlands after a six-hour operation to resolve an ear infection. He is pictured left on the ward on October 16 and right fully recovered after the incident

Faye filmed the empty corridors of the ward when she left her four-year-old son's bedside to desperately search for nurses, who she claims did not come when she rang the emergency bell

Jackson was born with the serious bacterial infection mastoiditis, which affects the mastoid bone behind the ear.

After his symptoms were dismissed as a minor ear infection for years, he was eventually diagnosed at three years old, with him now requiring a mastoidectomy - a surgical 'clear-out' that removes diseased cells in his ear - every year.

WHAT IS MASTOIDITIS? Mastoiditis is a serious bacterial infection that affects the mastoid bone behind the ear. The most common cause of mastoiditis is a middle ear infection that has been left untreated. Most people with mastoiditis recover quickly and have no complications as long as the condition is diagnosed and treated quickly. It's more common in children. The symptoms of mastoiditis typically include: Redness, tenderness and pain behind the ear

Swelling behind the ear that can cause it to stick out

Discharge from the ear

A high temperature, irritability and tiredness

Headache

Hearing loss in the affected ear Causes of mastoiditis The mastoid bone has a honeycomb-like structure that contains air spaces called mastoid cells. Mastoiditis can develop if the mastoid cells become infected or inflamed, often following a persistent middle ear infection (otitis media). Cholesteatoma can also cause mastoiditis. This is an abnormal collection of skin cells inside the ear which may prevent the ear draining properly, leading to infection. Treating mastoiditis Mastoiditis is a serious infection and should be diagnosed and treated quickly with antibiotics. You may need to go to hospital so antibiotics can be given directly into a vein through a drip. In some cases, surgery may be needed to drain the middle ear (a myringotomy) or remove part of the mastoid bone (mastoidectomy). Treatment isn't always easy and the infection may come back. If the mastoid bone is severely infected and isn't removed, it can cause hearing loss and life-threatening health complications such as a blood clot, meningitis or a brain abscess. Source: NHS

Last month's operation was Jackson's second routine mastoidectomy and took four hours longer than expected due to his condition being extremely severe.

When surgery finished at 6pm, Jackson was taken to a day ward, where Faye believes all the other patients had been discharged or moved to the night ward.

'No-one came with antibiotics and no-one came to check his vitals every few hours,' she said.

'The nurse on the ward came to me at around 8pm to say she was heading home and someone will be taking over, and will be bringing the antibiotics for Jackson and a bed for me.

'It got to 10:15pm and the bed and antibiotics hadn't arrived yet.

'I didn't want to leave Jackson on his own for too long. I pressed the emergency call button to get someone's attentions and it was going off for at least four minutes but no-one arrived.

'It was at this point I had to try and find someone. That's when I took the videos.'

Faye also noticed multiple red marks on a computer screen at the ward's reception, which she believes represented the number of children whose check-ups were overdue.

After finding a nurse, Faye was given a bed 20 minutes later, but she claims Jackson's antibiotics never arrived.

The youngster should have been given antibiotics immediately due to him developing a blood clot infection after his first mastoidectomy, his mother claimed.

'Food from his tea was also left at the end of his bed all night,' she said.

'I was woken up early [the next] morning when someone came to take Jackson's vitals, which should be checked every two hours after surgery, but that was it.'

Jackson was discharged the next morning with his antibiotics, with Faye believing her son missed two or three doses.

She even thinks her son has suffered lasting physical effects from the traumatic night.

'He’s quite resilient because he is used to the pain he has had all his life,' Faye said.

'But now he has bald patches, which doctors say are from the stress of the operations.

'Children at school are commenting on it', she said.

Jackson has since developed bald patches on his head from the stress of the operation, according to doctors, which children at school have commented on

After his first mastoidectomy at Russells Hall Hospital eight months before the incident, Jackson and his mother hoped his mastoiditis had been cured.

However when they got home, the youngster's face suddenly began to swell.

'He'd been in surgery for six hours, so I thought it might be normal,' Faye said.

'But his head just kept growing and growing through the night. When he woke up I could see his eyes were shut.

'We went back to hospital and they said go home and see how it progresses, but we were back that night.'

Faye was told she to drive her son to Wolverhampton New Cross Hospital, half-an-hour away, for an emergency operation.

After Jackson's first mastoidectomy -a 'clear-out' procedure that removes diseased cells from the ear - Jackson's head started to swell when he got home until he could not see

Doctors had to remove a blood clot infection from behind Jackson's ear at Wolverhampton New Cross hospital (pictured), where his mother claims he received 'traumatising' aftercare

Although the surgery went well, Faye describes the aftercare at Wolverhampton New Cross as 'horrendous' due partly to there being no pillows on Jackson's bed. She even had to go to Argos to buy her pillows.

Faye added: 'Where the infection had been removed, it hadn't been properly dressed, and so it was leaking onto his shoulder and clothes.'

The nurses also struggled to get a cannula with antibiotics into Jackson's hand, attempting up to 16 times, until his hand was bruised, she claimed.

'It was the most traumatic time of my life', Faye said. 'They applied aesthetic cream on his band but it had worn off. They even asked me to hold Jackson down whilst he was crying.

'They were going to try his feet but I stepped in and said "no more". He was traumatised and I wanted them to give him gas but they refused. It was disgusting.

'They managed to get the cannula into his hand in the end.

'A nurse gave me a form and said please complain because nothing will change if you don't', she said. She never officially filed a complaint.

Although outraged by the level of care Jackson received, Faye added: 'I'm not complaining about the system as a whole – if it wasn’t of them he might not be alive at all.'

Nurses at Wolverhampton New Cross Hospital attempted to get a canula into Jackson's hand 15-16 times, according to Faye, who was asked to 'hold him down' while he screamed

Jackson's surgery wound was 'leaking down his shoulder and clothes'

Jackson has since been told his infection still has not cleared up and is moving closer to his brain.

'They’ve said he will need surgery again and it will be within the next 12 months', Faye said. 'It relives me that it’s not so bad that it is an emergency. But I’m very worried that it’s close to brain.'

Doctors started prescribing Jackson with antibiotics for ear infections when he was just seven months old.

At one year, Faye recalls Jackson began to sweat profusely but his temperature was not high enough to go to hospital.

It was not until he was three that Jackson was diagnosed with mastoiditis when it became so severe he was bleeding from the ear, by which time he was already partially deaf.

'I was concerned he was living off antibiotics. In the end I said no more, and that's when they referred me to a specialist,' Faye said.

'They removed a polyp [small lump] they thought was causing the infection. But when it returned, they finally gave him a scan and found the mastoiditis.

'It took ages to finally get down to it for something that could potentially kill him.'

Speaking of the discharge that came from her son's ear, Faye said: 'The smell was like death. There was gunk on his pillow so I'd have to wash his bedsheets every day. He gets very hot and is sweating through the night.

'It was hard to give him a hug because the smell was so bad, even though we had cotton wool by his ear all the time.'

'When he was diagnosed I didn't know what it was and I when I looked it up, I read that it was the main cause of child fatalities, or at least it was at an earlier time. I was very worried.'

'I was a bit p***** off it had taken three years of infections for them to find it out.

'He is now 90 per cent deaf in the one ear and needs multiple surgeries possibly for life.'

Russells Hall Hospital, run by the Dudley Group NHS Trust, was blasted by inspectors last month, with its A&E department being described as 'inadequate'.

An investigation into 54 deaths over six months found patients with suspected sepsis were made to wait 11 hours for life-saving treatment.

Dudley Group NHS Trust Hospital's chief executive Diane Wake said it was 'too late for many people' who had suffered as a result of poor care.

Faye intends to make a formal complaint to the hospitals involved, worrying until now that doing so would put her out of favour and jeapordise Jackson's treatment.

Diane Wake, Chief Executive at Dudley Group NHS Foundation Trust, which is in charge of Russells Hall Hospital, said in a statement:

'We cannot comment on the specifics of any patient’s care without their express consent. However, we can confirm that we have four day case beds on our children’s ward at Russells Hall Hospital. A nurse is allocated to the station overseeing these beds and our patients are never left unsupervised.

'We have no record of a complaint relating to a child and this procedure. When we do receive complaints, we take them seriously and do all we can to improve patient care.'

Wolverhampton New Cross hospital has been contacted for comment.

====== 1678 ========

LIFE EXPECTANCY GAP IN ENGLAND CONTINUES TO WIDEN BETWEEN THE RICH AND THE POOR, NEW STUDY CLAIMS

The gap in life expectancy between rich and poor in England continue to widen, a new study has claimed.

The study reveals that under five-year-olds in the poorest homes are 2.5 times more likely to die than children in the richest homes.

Poor people are also seeing no gain in life expectancy, with the most vulnerable being 'left behind', according to the researchers at Imperial College London's School of Public Health.

Stagnant wages, austerity, reliance on food banks, poor diets and health inequalities are to blame for the poor dying nearly ten years younger than the rich.

Survival from disease, such as cancer, is less likely in the poor.

The results, which are consistent with previous findings, show a 'deeply worrying indicator of the state of our nation's health', according to lead author, Professor Majid Ezzati.

The gap between the poor and rich continues to widen due to health inequalities and lower survival rates from disease, an analysis of official figures by Imperial College of London found

Diseases that led to particularly early grave among the poor compared to the rich were newborn deaths and children's diseases, respiratory diseases, heart disease, lung and digestive cancers, and dementias.

Professor Ezzati said: 'Life expectancy inequality between affluent and deprived communities has increased steadily in England since the 1980s



'Our aim was to investigate how much deaths from different diseases and injuries and at different ages have contributed to this rise to inform policies that aim to reduce health inequalities.'

The top and lowest five areas for life expectancy in the UK Top five for men: Warfield Harvest Ride, Berkshire (90.3 years) Fleet North (89.7 years) Easton, Norfolk (89.6 years) Newton Poppleford and Harpford, Devon (89.4years) Salcey, Northampton (89.3 years) Top five for women: Great Corby and Geltside, Carlisle (97.2 years) Dullingham Villages, Cambridgeshire (97 years) Wimbish and Debden, Essex (96.5 years) Laverstock / Ford and Old Sarum, Wiltshire (96.3 years) Oakham South East, East Midlands (95.7 years) Lowest five for men: Bloomfield, Blackpool (68.2 years) Rhyl West, North Wales (68.3 years) Weston-super-Mare Central, Somerset (69.3 years) University, Kingston upon Hull (69.4 years) Waterloo (69.4 years) Lowest five for women: Gwersyllt West, north Wales (72.6 years) Middlehaven, Middlesbrough(74 years) Ironbridge Gorge, Shropshire (74 years) Kingswood, South Gloucestershire (74.3 years) Pillgwenlly, Newport, south Wales (74.4 years) Source: Office for National Statistics

The study, published in Lancet Public Health, analysed Office for National Statistics data on all deaths recorded in England between 2001 and 2016 – 7.65 million deaths in total.

The life expectancy gap between the richest and poorest women was 7.9 years in 2016, an increase from 6.1 years in 2011.

Life expectancy for women in the most deprived communities in 2016 was 78.8 years, compared to 86.7 years in the most affluent group.

For men, the gap between the richest and poorest was 9.7 years in 2016, an increase from 9 years in 2011.

74 years was the life expectancy among the poorest men, compared to 83.8 years among the richest.

In a 'deeply worrying', trend the life expectancy of England's poorest women has fallen since 2011 by 0.24 years.

Prof Ezzati said: 'Recent trends in life expectancy in England have not only resulted in widened inequalities but the most deprived communities are now seeing no life expectancy gain.

'These inequalities are driven by a diverse group of diseases that can be effectively prevented and treated.

'We currently have a perfect storm of factors that can impact on health, and that are leading to poor people dying younger.

'Working income has stagnated and benefits have been cut, forcing many working families to use foodbanks.

'The price of healthy foods like fresh fruit and vegetables has increased relative to unhealthy, processed food, putting them out of the reach of the poorest.

'The funding squeeze for health and cuts to local government services since 2010 have also had a significant impact on the most deprived communities, leading to treatable diseases such as cancer being diagnosed too late, or people dying sooner from conditions like dementia.'

Figures from The Office For National Statistics in March 2018 showed the sheer difference between people's life expectancy across the nation.

Men living in the Warfield Harvest Ride in the affluent county of Berkshire can expect to live to 90.3 years.

This is on average 22.1 years longer than men in Bloomfield in Blackpool - the second most deprived ward in England - who only live until they are 68.2 years.

Meanwhile, men in the wealthy area of Knightsbridge and Belgravia are expected to live more than 30 years longer in good health than men in Bloomfield.

Prof Ezzati added: 'Greater investment in health and social care in the most deprived areas will help reverse the worrying trends seen in our work.

'We also need government and industry action to eradicate food insecurity and make healthy food choices more affordable, so that the quality of a family's diet isn't dictated by their income.'

He explains how health inequalities need to be tackled with social and economic policies.

These include preventive measures, such as cancer screenings, and policies which influence the outcomes of disease, such as investments in health and social care.

'Falling life expectancy in the poorest communities is a deeply worrying indicator of the state of our nation's health, and shows that we are leaving the most vulnerable out of the collective gain.

The Office for National Statistics produced a series of interactive maps which drill down to tell what the average life expectancy is for different wards across the country:

Life expectancy map

To use the below map you can click on 'male' 'female' 'at birth' 'at 65' 'life expectancy' and 'healthy life expectancy' to discover how long people in an area can expect to live.

You can also input your postcode or clock on a location on the map to pick what borough ward to pick the figures for.

The map will then bring up the average life expectancy for that area, and what the healthy life inequality gap is in years.

====== 1679 ========

THE PERSONALITY TRAITS WHICH MEAN MEN HAVE THE MOST SEX

Millions of men spend endless hours honing their bodies in the gym.

But flexing certain personality traits could be a more effective way of attracting sexual partners, researchers say.

A new study from Australia claims that four distinct qualities are directly connected to 'sexual frequency and reproductive success' among males. They include being outgoing, agreeable, emotionally stable and conscientious.

However, the same characteristics don't work as effectively for women.

Sex success: A new study from Australia claims that four qualities are directly connected to 'sexual frequency and reproductive success' among males

Researchers from Queensland University of Technology analysed 2,998 heterosexual men and 1,480 heterosexual women as part of the 2016 Australian Sex Survey.

They found that being out-going, agreeable, emotionally stable and highly conscientious result in higher sexual frequency for the former.

In addition, higher extroversion was associated with men having more children.

However, the eyebrow-raising results - published in the Personality and Individual Differences journal - differed considerably for women.

They only succeeded sexually when being more extroverted, while being 'more agreeable' was associated with having more children.

The findings suggest that certain 'combinations' of personality traits give men an advantage when seeking partners.

'Throughout history, competitive advantages have helped men and women achieve increased success in their occupation, sport, artistic endeavours, their ability to acquire and secure resources, and ultimately, their survival,' says Dr. Stephen Whyte, who led the study.

Gender differences: The eyebrow-raising results - published in the Personality and Individual Differences journal - differed considerably for women

'However, little is known about the advantages, or disadvantages, personality traits provide in relation to sexual activity and offspring success.

'Science doesn't really have a firm understanding around how personality traits influence human mating and reproductive behaviour, and particularly whether certain personality types are favoured by either males or females.

'Our findings suggest that the greater variance in male traits and their particular combinations may provide an advantage for them when it comes to sex and reproduction but that doesn't appear to be the case for the women we analyzed,' he said.

====== 1680 ========

ANOREXIC BALLERINA LABELLED EATING DISORDER A 'DEMON'

An anorexia ballet dancer labelled her illness a 'demon' that made her exercise for ten hours a day, seeing her face become 'grey and gaunt'.

Teaching assistant Megan Brewer, 22, from Lincoln, aspired to tour the world with a professional dance company while she studied at dance school.

But her health deteriorated as she battled the crippling eating disorder, to the point where she was relying on caffeine pills and nine cups of coffee just to get through the day.

Exercising obsessively for up to ten hours a day saw Megan's weight plummet to just 5 stone 9 lbs - causing her father to break down in tears when he saw her skeletal frame.

In September 2017, Megan began treatment for her anorexia and she now has a healthy relationship with both food and exercise.

Megan Brewer, 22, from Lincoln, aspired to tour the world with a professional dance company while she studied at dance school, but her hobby became an obsession that saw her skin go grey and her weight plummet to 5 stone 9 lbs (left); pictured today (right)

Megan grew up part of a health-conscious family who would often workout and rarely indulged in unhealthy foods.

When she was younger, Megan took part in ballet, tap, modern and jazz classes, and while at dance school she did ballet and contemporary dance.

Since the age of eight, Megan started obsessing over her measurements for dance costumes, wanting to be the smallest possible size.

As she was growing up, Megan was always conscious of calories and would regularly cry at her own reflection.

Megan joined dance school at 18, but by her third year, Megan would work out for up to 10 hours a day by going to the gym at least once a day, doing two yoga classes, a HIIT class, running once a week and training for a marathon, all on top of dancing.

Unwell: Megan's her health deteriorated as she battled the crippling eating disorder, to the point where she was relying on caffeine pills and nine cups of coffee just to get through the day

Megan pictured before seeking help for her eating disorder. Exercising obsessively for up to ten hours a day saw Megan's weight plummet to just 5 stone 9 lbs - causing her father to break down in tears when he saw her skeletal frame

The turning point came when Megan realised she had developed a phobia of food, and saw her dad cry at the sight of her skeletal frame.

After seeking treatment and moderating her exercise, Megan hopes to show others that they aren't alone and being ill isn't their fault as she calls anorexia her 'demon'.

Now, Megan plays for Lambeth Allstars FC which has helped her find the social side of sport, going from 5st 9lbs to 8st 6lbs.

'We as a family were always very busy with our own commitments, such as dance and music classes,' said Megan.

'Both my parents are very into exercise and healthy living, which I learnt and took to the extreme. I remember being fussy over unhealthy food from a young age, such as not eating chips or pizza. I'd say I didn't like them, so I wouldn't have to eat them.

On the mend: In September 2017, Megan began treatment for her anorexia and she now has a healthy relationship with both food and exercise (pictured today)

Megan today after undergoing therapy. Reflecting on her illness, she says: 'I'd created all these rules around eating and couldn't break that cycle but now I see everything is okay in moderation'

'I would obsess over measurements when I was with my dance friends, like getting measured for costumes and character skirts. It felt like a competition to be the smallest.

'I was very conscious of my body since the age of eight. Growing up I did it all - ballet, tap, modern and jazz.

'The traffic light symbols on packets would particularly catch me eye and I'd stay away from anything marked red. I was always conscious of my body and I'd cry at my own reflection. I also joined a gym at 15, which I would use if I was upset.

'Around this time, I would do secret workouts before bed to work on defining my six pack and obsessing over my measurements. I'd do endless amounts of sit-ups, press-ups and workout routines that I'd learnt from dancing.

Megan backstage at rehearsals when she was in dance school. She said of her ballet: 'I would obsess over measurements when I was with my dance friends, like getting measured for costumes and character skirts. It felt like a competition to be the smallest'

'I was always the sporty, healthy one and being naturally petite, I was known as 'little Megs'. Little did I know that nickname would later be taken to the extreme.

'When I entered dance college at 18, the dance world stereotypes became my reality and I slowly began to slip into unhealthy eating disorder related behaviours. We danced every day, taking part in technique classes, choreography, performances and rehearsals.

'In my second year, I developed anxiety and depression due to the high pressures of dance school and living in London. As well as my dance training I was also training for half marathons.

'I'd be overly conscious while eating salads, exercising more and I noticed some weight loss. My confidence also took a blow due to the pressure and unenjoyment of the year itself.

Megan at dance school, showing off her six-pack which she became obsessed over. She recalls: 'I developed anxiety and depression due to the high pressures of dance school and living in London. As well as my dance training I was also training for half marathons'

Megan loved being muscly, without realising how dangerous it was for her health. When Megan left dance school in 2017, her exercise regime changed drastically because she was no longer exercising for an entire day. As a result, Megan began punishing herself and depriving herself of food

'In my third year my behaviours became extreme because I was doing up to 10 hours of exercise a day and rapidly losing more weight. My lunch was often a few rice cakes, spinach and celery sticks, then for dinner it would be a salad. I'd rely on protein shakes to keep me going.

'At this point, in my final year, I was praised for my physique and weight loss. I still looking very muscular and toned but I had no body fat.

'In the dance world I looked good, you could see my lines and muscle tone - I looked strong. When I stopped dancing though, I lost all the muscle tone and began to look skeletal by which point everyone became worried.'

When Megan left dance school in 2017, her exercise regime changed drastically because she was no longer exercising for an entire day. As a result, Megan began punishing herself and depriving herself of food.

Megan with her parents. Looking back at her dangerous routine, she said: 'My lunch was often a few rice cakes, spinach and celery sticks, then for dinner it would be a salad. I'd rely on protein shakes to keep me going'

Megan is now happier and healthier than ever. She says: 'People need to get educated so they can support others. It is a mindset and food and weight are just a symptom of how much you're controlled by your inner voices'

'I wasn't doing anywhere near as much exercise when I left, so I felt like I didn't deserve food. I only ate lean protein and low carb vegetables,' said Megan.

'I didn't have the luxury of a free gym and hours of dance class to attend so I ate less to compensate for the lack of exercise. I was living on a diet of salad, fish and hard-boiled eggs.

'When I began working as a teaching assistant, I would walk three miles to school and rely on caffeine for energy throughout the day. I'd take Pro Plus and drink up to nine cups of coffee.

'My intense fear of food became a phobia and I stopped socialising and drinking because I was afraid of food and calories, and that also took time away from exercising. When I began working in the school, I would have heart palpitations, felt faint and fell over a lot.

Megan shows her ripped physique which she would constantly get complimented on. She explains: 'When I began working as a teaching assistant, I would walk three miles to school and rely on caffeine for energy throughout the day. I'd take Pro Plus and drink up to nine cups of coffee'

'When I went home for the weekend, at my lowest weight, my dad cried at how small I was. He picked me up from the station and was shocked by my skinny legs, gaunt face and grey skin.'

Megan wants to show others that anorexia doesn't centre around weight because it's the mindset which is so detrimental, as she highlights that more needs to be done to help people recognise those who are suffering.

'At first I was an outpatient but that didn't work so I was offered day-care which was five days a week, and we had meals and a variety of therapy groups,' said Megan.

'There was a great team of staff consisting of a consultant, nurses, dietician, occupational therapists and counsellors.

'I'd created all these rules around eating and couldn't break that cycle but now I see everything is okay in moderation.

Megan, pictured as a child, grew up part of a health-conscious family who would often workout and rarely indulged in unhealthy foods

'In regard to exercise, football really helped me, and it changed my perspective. I joined a team when I could exercise, and it taught me how to work as a team and it kept exercise moderated.

'I realised that looking ripped isn't maintainable and doesn't make you a better person. Before, I could never stand up for myself, but now I can because I know I'm just as important as anyone else and I don't need an eating disorder to make me special.

'Eating disorders aren't about weight. Yes, I fit the stereotype of anorexia, but you can have the mindset and not the body. People need to get educated so they can support others. It is a mindset and food and weight are just a symptom of how much you're controlled by your inner voices.

'I always saw it as something was that controlling me, and I called it my demon.'

To find out more, you can follow Megan's recovery at @perfectlyimperfectyou or by visiting perfectly-imperfect-you.com

====== 1681 ========

JUNK FOOD ADVERTISING WILL BE BANNED ACROSS LONDON’S PUBLIC TRANSPORT NEXT YEAR

A ban on junk food advertising across London's public transport system will be introduced on February 25.

The capital's mayor Sadiq Khan has confirmed the 'tough action' initiative, which is part of the London Food Strategy to reduce child obesity in the city by 2028.

Promoting sugary drinks, chocolate and burgers will be prohibited across the entire transport network, including the Tube, bus stops and the London Overground.

The restrictions also outlaw goods deemed 'less healthy' by Public Health England, such as salted nuts.

However, fast-food chains will still be allowed to promote their healthier products, such as salads, as long as they are low in fat, salt and sugar.

Prohibited: Promoting sugary drinks, chocolate and burgers will be banned across the entire network, including bus stops, tram services and the London Overground

No loophole: Popular High-Street chains, such as Burger King, KFC and McDonald's, will be unable to 'outsmart' the campaign by simply advertising their logo

Speaking of the move's impact on reducing obesity, Mr Khan told the BBC: 'Reducing exposure to junk food advertising has a role to play in this - not just for children, but parents, families and carers who buy food and prepare meals.'

The ban will apply on:

Buses, underground and trains controlled by Tfl

Roads controlled by Tfl, including adverts on roundabouts and at bus stops

Taxis, including Dial-a-Ride

River services

Tram

Emirates Air Line cable car

Victoria Coach Station

Popular High-Street chains, such as Burger King, KFC and McDonald's, will also be unable to 'outsmart' the campaign by simply advertising their logo.

But promoting unsalted nuts, raisins and sugar-free drinks will be permitted.

Professor Dame Sally Davies, chief medical officer for England, celebrated the news, saying: 'Child obesity remains a concern to me, particularly the persistently high levels amongst London's most disadvantaged communities.

'Evidence shows we need to take action on a number of fronts, and it is clear that the Mayor's action is an important step in the right direction.'

Acceptable: Fast-food chains will still be allowed to promote their healthier products, such as salads, as long as they are low in fat, salt and sugar

Missing out: Advertising experts fear the divisive measure could cost Transport for London millions of pounds in lost advertising revenue - at a time when the system needs cash

However, advertising experts fear the divisive measure could cost Transport for London millions of pounds in lost advertising revenue.

Moreover, Justin Cochrane, chairman of the trade body Outsmart, which represents advertisers, claimed Mr Khan declined to work with the industry on a compromise that would preserve TfL's revenue.

He told MailOnline: 'We are disappointed that the Mayor refused to engage with our industry during this consultation process despite assuring London Assembly Members that his officials were "working with industry partners to ensure we minimise any unintended consequences".

'That was untrue. As a result, it will hit industry revenues and could cost jobs. It will also add more than £125mn to TfL's mountain of debts over the next five years.

'Our own survey of Londoners carried out by YouGov showed more Londoners thought his proposals would not be effective than would be effective.

'Had he worked with industry, we could have created together a bigger, more ambitious plan carrying the full support of Londoners that would truly tackle the issue.

'It's a shame that he's missed that opportunity but hope he will work with us in future'.

The Advertising Association has also said the move will have 'little impact on the wider societal issues that drive obesity'.

Its chief executive Stephen Woodford claimed the UK has 'the strictest rules in the world when it comes to advertising high fat salt sugar foods', which already prevent under 16-year-olds from being targeted.

But in a poll of 1,500 Londoners, 82 per cent said they backed the proposal, according to City Hall.

London has one of the highest childhood obesity rates in Europe, with almost 40 per cent of children aged 10 and 11 being overweight or obese.

This comes after ministers announced plans to push on with initiatives that force all restaurants and takeaways to put calorie labelling on their menus, despite widespread opposition.

The Department of Health said would help the battle against obesity and type 2 diabetes, and may come into play from March next year.

====== 1682 ========

MOTHER, 36, WAS RAVAGED BY A FLESH-EATING BACTERIA THAT CONSUMED HER ABDOMEN

A flesh-eating bug ravaged a mother's abdomen after she became infected while having a C-section.

Ashley Thompson, 36, from Conway, Arkansas, was induced when doctors discovered she was carrying the bacteria group strep B, which can be harmful if it passes to an unborn baby.

After suffering a prolapse, baby Jude was born via an emergency C-section on April 23 2014 and immediately rushed to intensive care due to breathing difficulties.

Forced to go home without her newborn, Mrs Thompson was rushed back to hospital days later when she developed severe pain in her abdomen, which was diagnosed as necrotising fasciitis.

Given just hours to live, doctors were forced to reopen her C-section scar to cut away the infected tissue - and did not even have time to anaesthetise her.

After spending six days in an induced coma, the mother-of-three did not recognise her husband Eric, 31, when she woke or even remember giving birth.

Although her memories quickly returned, she still suffers severe abdominal pain and swelling four years on, which have left the former nurse unable to work.

Ashley Thompson's abdomen was ravaged by flesh-eating bacteria after she became infected while having a C-section to deliver baby Jude. Pictured with the newborn after the incident, she claims their bond is particularly strong due to the 'hell' they went through together

Doctors were forced to cut away Mrs Thompson's infected abdominal wall in order to save her life. She is pictured in an induced coma, which she stayed in for six days to recover

Jude is now four years old (pictured left with Mrs Thompson and his father Eric Thompson, 31). Although over the worst of it, she still suffers too much abdominal pain and swelling to work

Speaking of her symptoms after giving birth, Mrs Thompson said: 'Over the next two days, I started to realise something wasn't right, as this awful pain built up in my tummy and a wave of confusion and tiredness hit me.

'Still, even though it hurt a lot, I thought it was all to do with some sort of irritation from the stitches.'

After going to her GP to be on the safe side, Mrs Thompson was rushed to hospital

A scan then revealed her lower abdominal muscle wall - a layer of muscle between the organs and skin - was being consumed by the flesh-eating bacteria.

'Everything then happened really quickly,' Mrs Thompson said. 'Before I knew it, I was lying in the operating room having my stomach ripped open.

'It was such a race against the clock that they didn't even have time to anaesthetise me, so I was awake as they cut my Caesarean stitching open again and cut the rotting flesh away. It was by far the worst pain of my life.

'The surgeons knew that if they waited any longer I was going to die because of this thing. It felt as though someone was ripping my insides out.

'The stench was so horrendous surgeons were having to leave the theatre to be sick. It smelled like death.'

Mrs Thompson was put into a coma (pictured) after doctors had given her just hours to live

She is pictured holding Jude for the first time after coming out of the coma. She did not initially remember her husband or even giving birth, but her memories returned just a week later

Jude was born on April 23 2014 and was rushed to intensive care due to breathing difficulties

Mrs Thompson then endured a further two operations, which involved cutting out her entire lower abdominal muscle wall and replacing it with a pig-skin mesh to hold her organs in place.

After a total of ten hours under the knife, she was put into an induced coma to protect her organs, which had started shutting down as the necrotising fasciitis took hold.

NECROTISING FASCIITIS: THE VICIOUS FLESH-EATING BACTERIA Necrotising fasciitis, more commonly known as 'flesh-eating disease', is a rare but extremely vicious bacterial infection. 'Necrotising' refers to something that causes body tissue to die, and the infection can destroy skin, muscles and fat. The disease develops when the bacteria enters the body, often through a minor cut or scrape. As the bacteria multiply, they release toxins that kill tissue and cut off blood flow to the area. Because it is so virulent, the bacteria spreads rapidly throughout the body. Symptoms include small, red lumps or bumps on the skin, rapidly-spreading bruising, sweating, chills, fever and nausea. Organ failure and shock are also common complications. Sufferers must be treated immediately to prevent death, and are usually given powerful antibiotics and surgery to remove dead tissue. Amputation can become necessary if the disease spreads through an arm or leg. Patients may undergo skin grafts after the infection has cleared up, to help the healing process or for aesthetic reasons. There are 500 to 1,500 cases reported a year, but 20 to 25 percent of victims die.

After not initially recognising her loved ones, Mrs Thompson's memories returned within a week and she quickly bonded with her newborn.

'Jude and I have this connection that comes from the very difficult passage he had into the world,' she said.

'Once I had recovered enough to start taking care of him myself, I instantly became very protective of him, much more so than I am with my other children.

'He was without a mother when he really needed it in the first few weeks of his life and I feel like we went through a hell of a lot together - that really creates a closeness.'

While Mrs Thompson, who is also mother to Hunter, 18, and Chance, 15, spent three weeks recovering in hospital, Jude was cared for by his father and grandparents.

'I wanted to get myself better as soon as I could, so that I could be a mum to Jude and take care of him when he really needed me. That's what kept me going,' she said.

Although over the worse of it, Mrs Thompson is still deeply affected by what happened.

'I find it very difficult to stand up for long periods of time because my belly very quickly begins to bulge and become agonising,' she said.

'I'm also covered in scarring, which really used to upset me.

'Now, though, I have come to terms with it and with everything that happened to me. I'm not looking for pity or attention, but I really do feel proud that I survived this terrible ordeal.

'It is amazing what the human body can overcome, and now I'm just set on living as long as I can and being the best mother I can be to my kids.'

Mrs Thompson spent three weeks in hospital recovering after the incident. Pictured with Jude during the stint, the newborn had to be cared for by his father and grandparents

Pictured during her recovery stay in hospital, Mrs Thompson said wanting to be there to look after Jude motivated her to get better. She added she is 'very protective of him'

====== 1683 ========

HEALTH RISK HIGHEST FOR WOMEN WORKING NIGHT SHIFT

Women who work an erratic mixture of day and night shifts have an 'especially high risk' of type 2 diabetes, a new study warns.

We already know the disease can be fueled by unhealthy lifestyle factors - smoking, eating fast food, scrimping on veg, and skipping the gym.

But the new Harvard research, a study of 150,000 nurses over 15 years, found a person's work schedule can hamper the body's resilience and control over blood sugar levels.

They say the findings, published in the British Medical Journal, show a greater need to be conscious of how shift work - particularly on an irregular schedule - can have serious, damaging impacts on a woman's health.

The researchers who conducted the new study believe this is the first to look at the combined impact of an unhealthy lifestyle and rotating night shift work on the risk of type 2 diabetes

This is hardly the first study to tie shift work and night shifts to poor health.

Previous research has shown women who work night shifts have a higher risk of anxiety, hypertension, and even breast cancer - as well as type 2 diabetes.

But the researchers who conducted the new study believe this is the first to look at the combined impact of an unhealthy lifestyle and rotating night shift work on the risk of type 2 diabetes.

They combined figures from two long-term health studies in nurses - the Nurses' Health Study (NHS) and NHS II – which enrolled female American nurses in 1976 and 1989.

They extracted data on 143,410 women without type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, or cancer who had filled out medical, food and lifestyle questionnaires at regular intervals.

Nursing care is required around the clock, which means nursing rotas include a mixture of day, evening and night shifts which can be disruptive to personal routines and biological rhythms.

For the study, working rotating night shift work was defined as working at least three night shifts per month in addition to day and evening shifts that month.

Unhealthy lifestyle was defined using four factors: being overweight or obese - a body mass index of 25 or above; ever having smoked, doing less than 30 minutes per day of moderate to vigorous intensity exercise and having a poor diet - low in fruit, veg, nuts and whole grains, and high in processed meat, trans fats, sugar and salt.

Over 22 to 24 years of follow-up, 10,915 of the 143,410 nurses were diagnosed as having type 2 diabetes.

For every five years of working rotating night shifts the nurses were almost a third (31 per cent) more likely to have been diagnosed with type 2 diabetes.

Each unhealthy lifestyle factor - ever being a smoker, being overweight or obese, having a low quality diet or a low level of physical activity - more than doubled (2.3 times) the risk of being diagnosed with type 2 diabetes.

Women who exhibited any of the four unhealthy lifestyle factors and also worked rotating night shifts faced an even higher risk of a diagnosis of type 2 diabetes: for each individual unhealthy lifestyle factor they had a 2.83 times higher risk.

Study co-author Dr Zhilei Shan, of Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, said: 'This risk is higher than simply adding the two individual risks for rotating shifts and for poor lifestyle together, indicating that some kind of interaction of the two risk factors adds further risk.'

The researchers calculated that rotating night shift work accounted for abut 17 per cent of the combined higher risk of type 2 diabetes, unhealthy lifestyle for around 71 per cent, and the remaining 11 per cent was additional risk related to the interaction of the two.

Dr Shan said: 'Most cases of type 2 diabetes could be prevented by adherence to a healthy lifestyle, and the benefits could be larger in rotating night shift workers.'

The researchers pointed that all the nurses were female and mostly white, so their findings may not be applicable to men or other ethnic groups.

The research team suggested that the extra risk of type 2 diabetes that occurs when rotating night shift workers follow an unhealthy lifestyle may be the result of disrupted sleep and circadian rhythms affecting hormones, or the balance of bacteria in the gut.

But they emphasized that further studies are needed to confirm and explain their findings.

====== 1684 ========

'NOT DOING WHAT YOU'RE TOLD ISN'T A MENTAL DISORDER': EXPERT CRITICISES NHS MENTAL HEALTH STATISTICS

An NHS report that claimed more than one in 18 pre-school children has a mental health disorder has been criticised for medicalising what is 'nothing more than bad behaviour'.

Among two to four-year-olds, the most common mental health disorder is 'oppositional defiant disorder '(ODD), according to figures released yesterday.

This is defined as children refusing to do what they are told and acting aggressively towards their parents. It is said to affect more than a quarter of pre-school children with supposed mental health problems.

But there are doubts about whether it is a real psychological illness, with one expert saying the NHS is 'turning everything into a mental health problem' and youngsters just 'don’t do what they’re told'

Some 5.5 per cent of two to four-year-olds are thought to have mental health disorders, according to NHS figures released yesterday, with more than a quarter of these having 'oppositional defiant disorder', which is characterised only by bad behaviour (stock image)

'We are turning everything into a mental health problem,' Professor Julian Elliott, from the University of Durham, told The Telegraph.

'For many of these children they don’t have a mental disorder; it’s a question of conduct.

'The main problem with three and four-year-olds is that they don’t do what they’re told.'

WHAT IS OPPOSITIONAL DEFIANT DISORDER? Oppositional defiant disorder is a mental disorder recognised by the NHS which is characterised by ongoing bad behaviour and aggression. Symptoms include: Repeatedly questioning rules and arguing with parents and adults

Blaming others for their mistakes

Behaving to deliberately annoy or upset others

Not doing what they're told

Having uncontrollable rages or severe tantrums

Appearing angry and frustrated much of the time

Struggling to concentrate on tasks

Rarely considering the impact of their behaviour before acting

Having low self-esteem or a negative attitude

Being easily aggravated by others According to The Priory private mental health clinics, which offers treatment for the disorder: 'The signs and symptoms of ODD may be apparent in all children at some point during their development. '[But] if your child has been diagnosed with the condition, then these symptoms will be so frequent and severe to the point where their learning and social relationships are negatively impacted.' The rehab centre says it can treat the disorder with behavioural therapy sessions, counselling and even medication. Source: The Priory

Symptoms of ODD include arguing with adults, blaming others for their mistakes, deliberately upsetting people and having uncontrollable tantrums.

But experts argue toddlers' parents would spend be constantly visiting doctors if they thought tantrums were a sign of mental illness.

And controversial treatments for the unruly toddlers include sending their parents on NHS-funded parenting courses.

But the experts who wrote the report have defended the classification, saying ODD can seriously affect a child's health and education.

The National Institute of Health and Care Excellence, which advises the NHS, adopted the US-devised condition in 2013.

Exeter University's Professor Tamsin Ford said: 'It does affect these young people – their health is poor and their educational outcomes are poor.'

Some 1.9 per cent of two to four-year-olds are believed to have ODD, with the next most common problems being autism spectrum disorder (1.4 per cent of two to four-year-olds) and sleeping disorder (1.3 per cent).

Experts have also criticised the Government's decision to bring in specialist mental health nurses in schools and colleges.

Leading nurses said existing school medics should just receive further training instead of 'reinventing the wheel', the Health Service Journal reported.

The NHS revealed the new mental health practitioner role last month.

Sharon White, chief executive of the School and Public Health Nurses Association, said: 'The suggestion that after only one year of training these practitioners would be able to provide the level of understanding deserved by our children and young people … is a nonsense sticking plaster.'

There were calls instead for more investment in the current school nursing system.

Yesterday's landmark report on the mental health of children and young people in England is the first in more than a decade.

The findings were based on a survey of 9,117 children and included those aged two to four and 17 to 19 for the first time.

It shows a worsening picture for young people’s welfare, with one in eight five to 19-year-olds suffering a mental health disorder in 2017.

The rates of illness increase with age, affecting one in ten by the time they finished primary school, one in seven by 16 and one in six by age 20.

Women aged between 17 and 19 are the worst affected age group, with almost a quarter of them (22.4 per cent) suffering from an emotional disorder.

And one in three gay, lesbian or bisexual teenagers suffer from mental health problems, compared to one in seven heterosexuals.

Shockingly, a quarter of teenagers with a mental disorder have self-harmed or tried to kill themselves, and this rose to almost half of 17 to 19-year-olds.

The figures have coincided with concerns hundreds of children are being given high-strength antidepressants by doctors going against guidelines to prescribe them.

Experts called the figures 'shocking' and said inadequate mental health and support services leave many young people stuck in a 'vicious circle of solitude and suffering'.

'These figures are shocking,' said Denise Hatton, chief executive of YMCA England & Wales.

'And while progress has been made to normalise conversations about mental health and successive governments have made additional funding for NHS services available, today’s figures are a wake-up call that this clearly hasn’t gone far enough.'

The Mental Health of Children and Young People in England report revealed the proportion of five to 15-year-olds with mental health problems rose from 9.7 per cent in 1999 to 11.2 per cent in 2017.

Experts offering their insight into the figures suggested social media could be partly to blame.

Dr Dennis Ougrin, a senior psychiatrist at King’s College London, said: 'Children with mental disorders are heavier users of social media and are affected by the social media more significantly, than the children without mental disorders.'

Teenagers aged between 17 and 19 have the highest rate of emotional disorders, with one in six of them suffering (16.9 per cent), and 6.4 per cent having more than one.

The YMCA's Ms Hatton added: 'To end this crisis that is ruining young lives, it’s crucial that action and investment goes into preventing young people from experiencing poor mental health in the first place.

'From preventative youth and community services, to education in schools, mental health must be incorporated in every aspect of daily life to stop young people from reaching crisis point.

'Without preventative services and with the NHS struggling to cope, too many young people are still left alone to deal with their mental health difficulties by themselves, leading to a vicious circle of solitude and suffering.'

WHERE DO THE MOST CHILDREN HAVE MENTAL DISORDERS? East of England (15.6%) South West (15.5%) North West (14.7%) Yorkshire and the Humber (14.7%) East Midlands (12.2%) South East (11.7%) West Midlands (11.7%) North East (11.6%) London (9%) Source: NHS Digital

The British Medical Association – a leading doctors' union – has also called for more investment in mental health services.

NHS psychiatrist and deputy chair of the consultants' committee, Dr Gary Wannan said: 'These findings are extremely concerning yet not at all surprising given that the BMA has for a long time warned of the need for greater investment in child and adolescent mental health services (CAMHS) to be able to meet the rising demand.

'Prevention where possible or early intervention is by far the most effective and beneficial means of treating children and young people’s mental health.'

It was also revealed yesterday that almost 600 children, including some aged 10 or under, are being given strong anti-depressants which raise their risk of suicide.

Figures unveiled by The Guardian showed 597 under-18s were given 'last resort' drugs by doctors going against NHS guidance.

The meds, paroxetine and venlafaxine, should not be given to children under normal prescribing circumstances, the paper reported, because they are believed to increase the risk of suicidal thoughts among young people.

Use of the super-strength depression drugs came as the number of under-18s taking anti-depressants rose from around 69,000 in 2016 to 71,365 last year.

Oxford University psychiatrist Andrea Cipriani told The Guardian: 'Paroxetine and venlafaxine should not be prescribed as first-line treatment, that is for sure.'

She added: 'Medications are not a quick fix for depression.'

'COUNSELLING WASN'T CUTTING IT AND I DIDN'T REALLY KNOW WHERE TO GO' Catherine Nixon felt she'd had a mental health problem from the age of seven but didn't seek expert help until she was 16 years old when it began to take over her life. She told the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire programme she would get up at 7am and spend seven hours in the bathroom on her compulsive 'morning routine'. Not feeling like her condition was severe enough to seek help from the NHS, Miss Nixon waited for years before getting professional support. Catherine Nixon suffered with mental health problems for years but never felt like she was severe enough for help until she was 'in and out of A&E' 'It started to get worse during the first bit of year 12,' she said. 'I'd had counselling and low-level CBT but that wasn't really cutting it and I didn't really know where to go. 'It wasn't until things got to its absolute worst when I was in and out of A&E that I eventually got into [NHS Child and Adolescent Mental Health Service] and they were like "you're a bit too severe for us, we're going to have to send you to a psychiatric unit", where I was for six months.'

Mental disorders measured in Thursday's NHS figures included emotional, behavioural and hyperactivity disorders, as well as other, less common disorders.

Data breaking down rates by region revealed children in the East of England and the South West are worst affected, with nearly 16 per cent of them suffering.

Whereas those in London have the fewest mental disorders, with nine per cent of them suffering.

'We need to support the children who are most vulnerable while making children and young people’s mental health a consistently high priority, and everyone’s business,' said the Mental Health Foundation's chief executive, Mark Rowland.

He added children in low-income homes or who have parents with mental health problems are at a heightened risk of suffering from disorders.

Alana Ryan, senior policy officer at the NSPCC said: 'When a generation of children are struggling with their mental health with many having self-harmed or attempted suicide, we are fundamentally failing our young people.

'Our own research shows even if children are referred for specialist mental health treatment there is a slim chance they will receive it, which is totally unacceptable.'

The British Psychological Society warned the rising number of mental health problems are proof the current treatment system isn't working.

Chief executive, Sarb Bajwa, said the statistics confirm 'what psychologists who work with this group have known for years – that the mental health challenges children and young people face are increasing.'

He added: 'We need to prioritise prevention and early intervention and psychological approaches that are proven to work with children and their families, peers, schools and communities.'

====== 1685 ========

KENT'S 1.4MILLION RESIDENTS WERE LEFT WITH JUST TWO ON-CALL DOCTORS OVERNIGHT IN AN ‘UNSAFE’ SCANDAL

Two GPs had to provide emergency cover for more than 1.4million patients.

They were left responsible for almost everyone in Kent during the early hours of a Sunday.

The firm that runs the county’s out-of-hours care for the NHS warned its service was unsafe that weekend, according to a leaked email.

It said that 200 patients were forced to wait for visits or medical advice.

One was ‘actively dying’ yet was not seen for six-and-a-half hours. Professor Helen Stokes-Lampard, who chairs the Royal College of GPs, said the situation was unacceptable.

‘Patients can’t determine when they will fall ill, and they should be able to access high quality GP care when they need to,’ she insisted.

'It is essential that any out-of-hours overnight.

Criticism: Only two on-call doctors were covering a population of more than 1.4 million when IC24 experienced both staff shortages and high demand one evening last September

‘We had two GPs and one advanced nurse practitioner in East Kent and two nurses in West Kent overnight.’

It said the service, which covers all of Kent except Swale and Medway – around 1,400 square miles – had 130 people waiting for advice, 67 waiting to be seen at bases and nine people waiting for visits. This included at least two palliative care patients.

Another patient was listed for a visit after the service was contacted at 1pm on September 8, but this did not happen until 6.15am the following day, partly due to a clerical error.

The email added: ‘The overnight staff are quite upset as they are being called constantly chasing callbacks by paramedics and 111 because we are failing to contact patients, due to lack of clinical staff.’

IC24 (Integrated Care 24), which is a not-for-profit social enterprise owned by its staff, is one of the biggest out-of-hours providers in the UK, providing GP cover and NHS 111 services to 7.2million people across Kent, Sussex, Norfolk, Suffolk, Essex and Northamptonshire. It said a GP shift was not filled on the weekend in question.

The service's delivery manager Lesley Williams branded the situation 'unsafe' in a damning email to senior managers, which was later leaked to the Health Service Journal.

Ms Williams' email was sent on September 9 at 8am when 130 people were still waiting for healthcare advice, 67 were waiting to be seen and there were nine visits pending throughout Kent, with the exception of Swale and Medway.

One of two palliative care patients in West Kent, who was 'actively dying', was forced to wait six-and-a-half hours for a visit, according to Ms Williams' email.

IC24 claimed it had contingency plans in place for when staffing was 'lower than desired'

Tragic schoolgirl, Malaika Adam, was 'failed' by the ambulance service and an emergency call handler employed by IC24 before she died, an inquest has heard

'Having seen the screen myself this morning I need to let you know the service is currently unsafe and has been overnight,' Ms Williams wrote.

'We had two GPs and one advanced nurse practitioner in East Kent and two ANPs (advanced nurse practitioners) in West Kent overnight.'

IC24 claimed it planned to employ an additional GP in the area but this shift was not filled.

Ms Williams also expressed doubts there would be clinicians working on September 9 in Maidstone and anticipated no cover in Canterbury that the afternoon.

Scandal-hit firm IC24 – the firm that provides GP cover in Kent – is a social enterprise that provides NHS services to 7.2million people across southern England. Formed in 1996, it is owned by its staff and puts all profits back into the business. But in recent years it has been involved in a number of scandals. In 2016 a leaked report revealed staff at IC24’s Norfolk service were told to alter their records to cover up delays and poor care. The year before, Malaika Adam, seven, died from sepsis with a burst appendix after a call-handler employed by IC24 failed to realise the severity of her condition.

She warned there would be no doctors based at Dover or Margate that evening. But, in response, IC24 argued there were mobile clinicians covering these gaps.

Dr Andrew Catto, deputy chief executive of IC24, said: ‘It is well known that there is a shortage of GPs. This impacts on many GP surgeries and out-of-hours services.

‘IC24 values the contribution of our GPs, but in common with other out-of-hours providers, we benefit from having access to a team of healthcare professionals including nurses, urgent care practitioners and paramedics.

‘The role of the GP is also changing; rather than needing large numbers of GPs to deliver hands-on care, GPs play an essential role in also providing high-quality expert advice to nurses and paramedics.’

A spokesman for the five Kent clinical commissioning groups, which hire IC24 to provide the service, said: ‘There have been no serious incidents reported. Where a gap in workforce is identified, for instance through sickness, the provider puts contingency plans into place.

‘This means that patients will continue to have access to health professionals when they need it.’

Out-of-hours care has been under the spotlight since the case in 2008 of David Gray, a pensioner in Cambridgeshire who died after German doctor Daniel Ubani gave him ten times the recommended dose of a painkiller.

He had been hired by a private firm that had not carried out any checks on him.

An NHS England spokesman said: ‘Local health bodies and the provider must ensure there are sufficient clinicians to cover the services offered. Figures out this week show the number of GPs is now rising, and patients also have the option of contacting NHS 111, which has an increasing number of clinicians available to speak to patients day or night.’

The delays experienced by two palliative care patients in North and West Kent during the weekend of September 8 to 9 have been reviewed to ensure that no harm was caused to the patients as a result. A spokesperson for IC24

Thousands of patients in the Midlands could be left without GP out-of-hours services after one private provider last night said it would cease operations by the end of the month.

Primecare, which is part of troubled social care provider Allied Healthcare, provides out-of-hours services for 16 NHS health boards in Birmingham and other parts of the West Midlands.

A spokesman for Primecare said it had been liaising with the NHS to ‘secure alternative providers’ and ‘ensure safe continuity of patient care throughout the handover process’.

The NHS has a legal duty to provide out-of-hours GP care.

IC24 claimed it had contingency plans in place for when staffing was 'lower than desired'.

'These include moving staff according to demand and staffing fluctuation,' a spokesperson said.

'On a weekly basis we assess issues such as the longest waits patients experienced, assess the potential impact on those patients, and report back to our clinical commissioning groups, with whom we have close working relationships to ensure quality of service.

'The delays experienced by two palliative care patients in North and West Kent during the weekend of September 8 to 9 have been reviewed to ensure that no harm was caused to the patients as a result.'

A spokesperson for the Kent Care Commissioning Groups added: 'The CCGs monitor the performance of the out of hours' provider daily, along with weekly reports and there have been no serious incidents reported.'

====== 1686 ========

LIFE EXPECTANCY AMONG WOMEN HAS STALLED DUE TO A 'RISE IN OBESITY', REPORT FINDS

Life expectancy gains among women have stalled due to a rise in obesity and unhealthy lifestyles, research suggests.

Although female EU residents live on average five-and-a-half years longer than European men, the gap between the sexes is narrowing, a report found today.

Women born in the UK between 2011 and 2016 are even expected to die in the same year, the report found.

'This may be linked to growing risk factors like obesity, a lack of physical activity and diabetes', report authors from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development said.

Graph shows how the life expectancy of men and women born in the UK between 1980 and 2015 has changed. Although females have always lived longer than their male counterparts, it is starting to plateau, which experts have put down to obesity and sedentary lifestyles

In the report 'Health at a Glance: Europe 2018', the authors assessed how life expectancy has changed in the EU over the years, as well as how it differs between the sexes.

Its findings revealed women born in the UK in 1980 can expect to live for 76.2 years on average, compared to just 70.2 years for men.

From 1980, a man's life expectancy rose more or less year-on-year, peaking at 79.5 in 2014.

It then dipped slightly to 79.2 the following year, before rising back to 70.4 in 2016, which is the most recent data available.

But a woman's lifespan has been more sporadic and increased steadily from 76.2 in 1980 to 79 for those born in 1992 before dropping to 78.9 the following year.

Although it picked up again to 79.5 in 1994, it then decreased to 79.3 in 1995 before recovering back to 79.5 the next year.

A woman's life expectancy then increased steadily again to 80.6 for those born in the UK in 2002, before dropping to 80.5 the next year, and rising to 83 in 2011.

After dropping as low as 82.8 for those born in 2012 and 2015, it then recovered once again to 83 in 2016.

HOW HAS LIFE EXPECTANCY CHANGED IN THE UK BETWEEN THE SEXES FROM 1980 TO 2016? YEAR OF BIRTH WOMEN MEN 1980 76.2 70.2 1981 76.8 70.8 1982 77 71.1 1983 77.3 71.3 1984 77.4 71.6 1985 77.6 71.7 1986 77.7 71.9 1987 78 72.3 1988 78.1 72.4 1989 78.1 72.6 1990 78.5 72.9 1991 78.7 73.1 1992 79 73.6 1993 78.9 73.5 1994 79.5 74.1 1995 79.3 74 1996 79.5 74.3 1997 79.7 74.6 1998 79.8 74.8 1999 79.9 75 2000 80.3 75.5 2001 80.5 75.8 2002 80.6 76 2003 80.5 76.2 2004 81.1 76.8 2005 81.3 77 2006 81.6 77.3 2007 81.8 77.6 2008 81.8 77.7 2009 82.4 78.3 2010 82.6 78.6 2011 83 79 2012 82.8 79.1 2013 82.9 79.2 2014 83.2 79.5 2015 82.8 79.2 2016 83 79.4

Women across Europe live on average more than five years longer than men, however, the difference in life expectancy between the sexes has being decreasing since 2000.

But the difference remains marked in Latvia and Lithuania, where women live more than a decade longer. This is thought to be due to male residents being more likely to smoke and drink excessively.

Although women live longer, the difference in 'disability-free years' between males and females living in the EU is narrow at 81 per cent and 77 per cent, respectively.

Women are thought to spend more of their lives in ill health simply because more cases go reported due to them being more likely to visit their doctors.

Life expectancy across the EU averages at 81 and is not increasing in western Europe as quickly as it once was.

For both sexes combined, life expectancy rose by less than a year for those born between 2011 and 2016 in the UK, Germany, Italy and France.

For all of Europe, men were around 80 per cent more at risk of dying from heart disease than women in 2000 due to them being more likely to smoke and eat unhealthily.

In the 16 years that followed, the number of related deaths decreased by around 40 per cent.

Although the reduction in heart disease-related deaths has slowed over the past five years, it still remains the leading cause of mortality, killing more than 1.9million people across the EU in 2015 alone.

Graph shows how life expectancy has changed in the UK, Germany, France and Italy compared to the EU average between 2005 and 2016. When combining both sexes, the lifespan in these countries increased by less than a year for those born between 2011 and 2016

HOW HAS LIFE EXPECTANCY CHANGED IN THE UK, FRANCE, GERMANY AND ITALY BETWEEN 2005 AND 2016 COMPARED TO THE EU AVERAGE? YEAR UK FRANCE GERMANY ITALY EU AVERAGE 2005 79.2 80.3 79.4 80.9 78.5 2006 79.5 80.9 79.9 81.4 78.9 2007 79.7 81.3 80.1 81.6 79.1 2008 79.8 81.4 80.2 81.7 79.4 2009 80.4 81.5 80.3 81.8 79.6 2010 80.6 81.8 80.5 82.2 79.9 2011 81 82.3 80.6 82.4 80.2 2012 81 82.1 80.7 82.4 80.3 2013 81.1 82.4 80.6 82.9 80.5 2014 81.4 82.8 81.2 83.2 80.9 2015 81 82.4 80.7 82.7 80.6 2016 81.2 82.7 81 83.4 81

Since 2010, some European countries have even see their life expectancy go down, which is thought to be due to an increase in the number of elderly people dying from flu.

Second only to heart disease, cancer caused 1.32million fatalities in the EU in 2015.

In all EU countries, men are more likely to die of cancer than women with 739,000 passing away from the disease in 2015, compared to 584,000 females.

This has again been linked to men being more likely to smoke and drink heavily, as well as having less access to screening programmes.

Cancer-related deaths for both sexes have gone down slightly in most EU states but this decline has been less dramatic than the reduction in heart-disease fatalities.

====== 1687 ========

GLOBAL INSULIN DEMANDS ARE SET TO SKYROCKET BY MORE THAN 20% OVER THE NEXT 12 YEARS

Millions of people will struggle to access life-saving insulin as the diabetes epidemic continues.

According to a study published in The Lancet Diabetes and Endocrinology, the numbers of people living with type 2 diabetes will increase by more than 20 per cent over the next 12 years.

Specifically, data from the International Diabetes Federation estimates the number of patients worldwide will increase from 406million to 511million by 2030.

The majority of these people will live in China (130million), India (98million) and the US (32million).

And, although only 79million of these will need the life-saving hormone, only half will be able to get it.

Increase: Data from the International Diabetes Federation estimates that worldwide numbers of people living with type 2 diabetes will increase from 406million to 511million by 2030

'These estimates suggest that current levels of insulin access are highly inadequate compared to projected need,' said Stanford University's Dr Sanjay Basu, who led the research.

He added this was 'particularly in Africa and Asia, and more efforts should be devoted to overcoming this looming health challenge.

'Despite the UN’s commitment to treat non-communicable diseases and ensure universal access to drugs for diabetes, across much of the world insulin is scarce and unnecessarily difficult for patients to access.

'The number of adults with type 2 diabetes is expected to rise over the next 12 years due to ageing, urbanisation, and associated changes in diet and physical activity.

'Unless governments begin initiatives to make insulin available and affordable, then its use is always going to be far from optimal.'

Part of the issue appears to be that demand has increased alongside cost, which has spiked in recent years - particularly in the US, where it's increasingly unaffordable.

Meanwhile, production is currently controlled by three big pharma companies.

Geography: Most people who'll struggle to access insulin will be from China, India or the US

Dr Tim Reed, from Health Action International, which funded the study, said better access to insulin was essential.

'Governments should use this information to plan for growing need,' he told The Guardian.

'By shedding light on the sheer numbers of people affected, we are once again reminded of the important role universal health coverage can play in improving lives.

'This is particularly pressing because, according to our data, the greatest need occurs where health systems are weak, and availability and affordability is poor.'

====== 1688 ========

IS IT CRUEL TO BRING ANIMALS ON A PLANE AS 'EMOTIONAL SUPPORT'?

The Department of Transportation has been considering new guidelines for flying with emotional support animals since spring 2018, but it doesn't look like those guidelines will be ready in time for the holiday travel season.

No one knows whether the new guidelines could have helped recent Delta Air Lines passenger Matthew Meehan, who claimed that he had to sit in doggie poop from an emotional support animal on a November 1, 2018 flight from Atlanta to Miami. The dog became sick on a previous flight, the airline reported, leaving the mess for Meehan.

And that was after Delta tightened its rules for flying with emotional support animals.

In recent years, the number of animals flying in the cabin on airplanes has increased exponentially, due to an increase of these emotional support animals. United Airlines reported a 77 percent rise in just one year of emotional support animals. These animals fly for free, and sometimes they and their human are upgraded to first class to avoid a kerfuffle in coach.

As an assistant clinical professor of veterinary medicine and veterinary behaviorist, I have experience in small animal care and animal behavior, and I am concerned about the welfare of animals on planes as well as the humans. The issues are more complicated than many imagine.

In recent years, the number of animals flying in the cabin on airplanes has increased exponentially, due to an increase of these emotional support animals

Stressed out by flying? Aren’t we all

Emotional support animals differ from trained service animals, who have been trained to do work or perform a task for the benefit of a person with a disability. Most emotional support animals are not officially trained to offer support, but their owners consider them a comfort nonetheless.

Some people who need trained service animals have grown weary of emotional support animals. Many resent their work animals being lumped in with emotional support animals, whom they consider poseurs. Many also claim that their service animals are being turned away from flights in the wake of tighter restrictions imposed by some airlines.

Oscar Munoz, CEO of United Airlines, told a business group that the situation aboard has become so ludicrous that his airline was expected to fly a support animal for an emotional support animal.

Last year, United drew a line in the sky when a passenger wanted to fly with an emotional support peacock.

For American Airlines, the last straw was a goat (miniature horses are still allowed). American issued new guidelines in July that also restrict support animals from occupying a seat or nibbling food from a tray table. There's no mention about whether they can drink on board. Pet owners, however, claim that it is discriminatory to deny them the comfort of emotional support animals.

The DOT and other government agencies have been exploring a revision in the laws. These stricter proposals have received revision requests and support from both the American Veterinary Medical Association and the Association of Flight Attendants-CWA Union.

The American Veterinary Medical Association pushed back on language, however, that would have made its members accountable for verifying that an animal will behave, because there is no way to guarantee the behavior of an animal.

A long history

This all took off when the 1986 federal Air Carrier Access Act allowed people with mental health disabilities to fly on a plane with an animal free of charge, if it alleviates the person's condition.

Over the years, however, airlines have said that some animal-carrying passengers abuse the rules so they can simply fly with their pets for free. Some want to prevent their pets from flying in cargo, where some pets have died.

Many passengers traveling without animals have said they are stressed by emotional support animals. Animals trigger phobias in some people and allergies in others; about 10 percent of the human population is allergic to animals. Cats bear most of the blame, but proteins in dog dander and even saliva can cause an allergic reaction.

Many airlines now require advance notification. Many also want a diagnosis letter for the human stating that the person is psychologically disabled and can not be without the stability provided by that pet. Writing such a letter can pose risks and ethical dilemmas for psychologists, however, a study suggested. Nonetheless, people seeking a letter can usually obtain one online.

The airline industry also considered asking for documentation from a veterinarian that the animal can behave in public and that it is healthy and has been vaccinated. The American Veterinary Medical Association emphasized to the DOT that veterinarians cannot vouch for animals' behavior and that expanding the scope of the veterinary form could lead to refusals by veterinarians to fill out these forms. That, in turn, could result in certified service animals being denied air transportation.

The airlines dropped that requirement. Instead, many airlines ask that the animal just be clean and not have an odor.

Riding on planes, being in closed-in spaces, and being exposed to loud noises and crowds of people can be overstimulating and scary to an animal, especially one not accustomed to that particular environment

Who’s right?

There's a lot of scientific evidence that being in close proximity to, and living with, companion animals has many psychological and physiological benefits for humans. In children, animal-assisted therapy has been shown to reduce pain perception and provide better coping skills in the hospital environment. Another study found that in children with autism, social behaviors increased in the presence of animals compared to toys.

Studies also have shown a positive effect of service dogs on war veterans and people with traumatic brain injuries.

But do emotional support animals really help people more than traditional pets?

According to a 2016 literature review by two psychologists and a psychology graduate student, the answer is no. There is little evidence to support that emotional support animals are more effective than traditional pets.

In fact, there are no specific guidelines or standards for evaluating emotional support animals. And, without standards, legal protection is complicated when incidents occur, such as when a pit bull bites a person, as one did on a Delta Air Lines flight, leading the airline to ban that breed.

Is it good for the goose just because it’s good for the human?

There's also evidence that the animals themselves may not fare so well. Riding on planes, being in closed-in spaces, and being exposed to loud noises and crowds of people can be overstimulating and scary to an animal, especially one not accustomed to that particular environment.

In a 2002 study, researchers looked at air travel in beagles. They found that blood and salivary cortisol was much higher than baseline in dogs during air transport, an indication they were stressed. The authors noted that just because the beagles were mainly inactive during transport did not mean they were not stressed. Rather, their behavior indicated that the beagles adopted a conservative-withdrawal approach in response to their stress, rather than fight-or-flight.

In contrast, service dogs are often genetically selected and extensively trained for the tasks they will perform. They need consistent and predictable behaviors in a wide range of situations and environments in order to safely provide service to their humans, especially if a life depends on that particular service.

Training, training methods, the trainer and training tools used can also have a significant effect on behavior and coping skills in animals.

And, whenever an animal is fearful or anxious, he may be more likely to choose an aggression strategy, such as growling, snapping or biting, especially if he feels cornered or trapped. In the end, airlines and regulators are left to develop ways to avoid the downsides of comfort animals, even as consumers have come to expect this accommodation.

====== 1689 ========

ONE IN EIGHT CHILDREN HAVE MENTAL HEALTH PROBLEMS

Thousands of children as young as two are being diagnosed with mental health disorders, according to a landmark report.

One in 18 pre-schoolers are being treated for problems including ‘oppositional defiance disorder’, NHS mental health figures show.

While some traditional parents may scoff at such terms for conduct they would simply blame on ‘the terrible-twos’, experts insist the cases are at the extreme end of the behavioural spectrum.

Controversial treatments include families going on parenting courses to help them handle their offspring.

Today’s report on the mental health of children and young people in England is the first in more than a decade. The findings, based on a survey of 9,117 children, include those aged two to four and 17 to 19 for the first time.

It shows a worsening picture for young people’s welfare, with one in eight five- to 19-year-olds suffering a mental health disorder in 2017.

The rates of illness increased with age, affecting one in ten by the time they finished primary school, one in seven by 16 and one in six by age 20.

Some 12.8 per cent of all people aged between two and 19 have some form of mental disorder and a quarter of teenagers with mental health problems have self-harmed or tried to kill themselves, according to figures released today by NHS Digital (stock image)

Women aged between 17 and 19 are the worst affected age group, with almost a quarter of them (22.4 per cent) suffering from an emotional disorder.

And one in three gay, lesbian or bisexual teenagers suffer from mental health problems, compared to one in seven heterosexuals.

Shockingly, a quarter of teenagers with a mental disorder have self-harmed or tried to kill themselves, and this rose to almost half of 17 to 19-year-olds.

The figures have coincided with concerns hundreds of children are being given high-strength antidepressants by doctors going against guidelines to prescribe them.

Experts called the figures 'shocking' and said inadequate mental health and support services leave many young people stuck in a 'vicious circle of solitude and suffering'.

'These figures are shocking,' said Denise Hatton, chief executive of YMCA England & Wales.

'And while progress has been made to normalise conversations about mental health and successive governments have made additional funding for NHS services available, today’s figures are a wake-up call that this clearly hasn’t gone far enough.'

Mental Health of Children and Young People in England, 2017, published today by NHS Digital has laid the figures bare.

For the first time it has included those aged between 15 and 19, and between the ages of two and four.

The number of five to 15-year-olds with mental health problems rose from 9.7 per cent in 1999 to 11.2 per cent in 2017.

Even pre-school children don't escape the scourge of mental health problems affecting the nation's youth – 5.5 per cent of under-fives have a disorder of some kind.

Experts offering their insight into the figures suggest social media could be partly to blame.

Dr Dennis Ougrin, a senior psychiatrist at King’s College London, said: 'Children with mental disorders are heavier users of social media and are affected by the social media more significantly, than the children without mental disorders.'

Teenagers aged between 17 and 19 have the highest rate of emotional disorders, with one in six of them suffering (16.9 per cent), and 6.4 per cent having more than one.

The YMCA's Ms Hatton added: 'To end this crisis that is ruining young lives, it’s crucial that action and investment goes into preventing young people from experiencing poor mental health in the first place.

'From preventative youth and community services, to education in schools, mental health must be incorporated in every aspect of daily life to stop young people from reaching crisis point.

'Without preventative services and with the NHS struggling to cope, too many young people are still left alone to deal with their mental health difficulties by themselves, leading to a vicious circle of solitude and suffering.'

WHERE DO THE MOST CHILDREN HAVE MENTAL DISORDERS? East of England (15.6%) South West (15.5%) North West (14.7%) Yorkshire and the Humber (14.7%) East Midlands (12.2%) South East (11.7%) West Midlands (11.7%) North East (11.6%) London (9%) Source: NHS Digital

The British Medical Association – a leading doctors' union – has also called for more investment in mental health services.

NHS psychiatrist and deputy chair of the consultants' committee, Dr Gary Wannan said: 'These findings are extremely concerning yet not at all surprising given that the BMA has for a long time warned of the need for greater investment in child and adolescent mental health services (CAMHS) to be able to meet the rising demand.

'Prevention where possible or early intervention is by far the most effective and beneficial means of treating children and young people’s mental health.'

It was also revealed today that almost 600 children, including some aged 10 or under, are being given strong anti-depressants which raise their risk of suicide.

Figures unveiled by The Guardian showed 597 under-18s were given 'last resort' drugs by doctors going against NHS guidance.

The meds, paroxetine and venlafaxine, should not be given to children under normal prescribing circumstances, the paper reported, because they are believed to increase the risk of suicidal thoughts among young people.

Use of the super-strength depression drugs came as the number of under-18s taking anti-depressants rose from around 69,000 in 2016 to 71,365 last year.

Oxford University psychiatrist Andrea Cipriani told The Guardian: 'Paroxetine and venlafaxine should not be prescribed as first-line treatment, that is for sure.'

She added: 'Medications are not a quick fix for depression.'

'COUNSELLING WASN'T CUTTING IT AND I DIDN'T REALLY KNOW WHERE TO GO' Catherine Nixon felt she'd had a mental health problem from the age of seven but didn't seek expert help until she was 16 years old when it began to take over her life. She told the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire programme she would get up at 7am and spend seven hours in the bathroom on her compulsive 'morning routine'. Not feeling like her condition was severe enough to seek help from the NHS, Miss Nixon waited for years before getting professional support. Catherine Nixon suffered with mental health problems for years but never felt like she was severe enough for help until she was 'in and out of A&E' 'It started to get worse during the first bit of year 12,' she said. 'I'd had counselling and low-level CBT but that wasn't really cutting it and I didn't really know where to go. 'It wasn't until things got to its absolute worst when I was in and out of A&E that I eventually got into [NHS Child and Adolescent Mental Health Service] and they were like "you're a bit too severe for us, we're going to have to send you to a psychiatric unit", where I was for six months.'

Mental disorders measured in today's NHS figures included emotional, behavioural and hyperactivity disorders, as well as other, less common disorders.

The most common problem among pre-school children was something called oppositional defiance disorder, which is characterised by defiant behaviour.

Data breaking down rates by region revealed children in the East of England and the South West are worst affected, with nearly 16 per cent of them suffering.

Whereas those in London have the fewest mental disorders, with nine per cent of them suffering.

'We need to support the children who are most vulnerable while making children and young people’s mental health a consistently high priority, and everyone’s business,' said the Mental Health Foundation's chief executive, Mark Rowland.

He added children in low-income homes or who have parents with mental health problems are at a heightened risk of suffering from disorders.

Alana Ryan, senior policy officer at the NSPCC said: 'When a generation of children are struggling with their mental health with many having self-harmed or attempted suicide, we are fundamentally failing our young people.

'Our own research shows even if children are referred for specialist mental health treatment there is a slim chance they will receive it, which is totally unacceptable.'

The British Psychological Society warned the rising number of mental health problems are proof the current treatment system isn't working.

Chief executive, Sarb Bajwa, said the statistics confirm 'what psychologists who work with this group have known for years – that the mental health challenges children and young people face are increasing.'

He added: 'We need to prioritise prevention and early intervention and psychological approaches that are proven to work with children and their families, peers, schools and communities.'

====== 1690 ========

NETFLIX SHOW 13 REASONS WHY DID INCREASE SUICIDE RISKS

Half of teenagers that watched the controversial TV show 13 Reasons Why say that the show increased their risks of suicide, a new study reveals.

After the debut of the Netflix series, which chronicles the lives of teenagers in the aftermath of their 17-year-old classmate's suicide, Google searchers for 'suicide' surged, raising concerns among public health officials and psychologists.

Suicide and mental health issues have been on the rise in the US in general and among teenagers in particular and some have worried that 13 Reasons Why glamorizes suicide.

Now, there is data to back up that concern.

A University of Michigan survey of 87 teenagers who attempted suicide in the past year revealed that half of those who saw the show believed it 'increased their suicide risk.'

Half of teenagers that had attempted to take their own lives and seen the controversial Netflix series 13 Reasons Why said that the show had raised their suicide risks

In the first week after 13 Reasons Why debuted, it set a record for most Tweeted-about new Netflix show.

And teenagers weren't just tweeting about the show - they were Googling details of suicide and self harm.

The show, produced by Selena Gomez, gained a fervent following that doctors and parents worried was not adequately prepared to grapple with the material.

'This show has been a real phenomenon, especially among teenagers,' said lead study author, Dr Victor Hong, medical director of psychiatric emergency services at Michigan Medicine.

'Its depiction of teen suicide has raised great concern among parents, health providers and educators.

The show's premise was seen as some by an opportunity to destigmatize suicide and mental health issues, but by others as a Hollywood-telling of horrific events.

Season one of 13 Reasons Why followed the lives of teenagers to whom fictional 17-year-old Hannah sent tapes explaining how each contributed to her decision to end her own life.

The first season was not prefaced by any warnings about its content and the supplemental materials available online were dubbed lacking by many psychologists.

Surging Google searches for topics like 'how to commit suicide' floored experts, but, of course, they lacked adequate evidence that the show was harmful to get it pulled before a second season.

'Our study doesn't confirm that the show is increasing suicide risk, but it confirms that we should definitely be concerned about its impact on impressionable and vulnerable youth,' said Dr Hong.

'Few believe this type of media exposure will take kids who are not depressed and make them suicidal.

'The concern is about how this may negatively impact youth who are already teetering on the edge.'

The research, published in the journal Psychiatric Services, also revealed teens who watched the program did not speak to adults about the suicide theme.

Producers of the second series, released in May 2018, added a disclaimer which urges young viewers to watch with a trusted adult and highlights the importance of seeking help.

The disclaimer may have been in part a response to several studies on the show's ripple effects.

One such study found searches including 'how to commit suicide'' and 'how to kill yourself' increased by 26 percent following the show's initial release on March 31 2017.

Dr Hong said his study began when colleagues at different children's hospitals noted that they had heard teens treated for suicidal symptoms talk about '13 Reasons Why.'

Few believe this type of media exposure will take kids who are not depressed and make them suicidal. The concern is about how this may negatively impact youth who are already teetering on the edge Dr Victor Hong, University of Michigan psychiatrist, study author

He and his colleagues found that 81 percent of surveyed youths who had seen the show viewed it alone and were more likely to discuss their reactions with peers than with their adult family members.

Only 35 percent said they would discuss it with a parent.

Meanwhile few parents surveyed in the study had watched the series and some were unaware that their child had watched it.

The findings clash with a previous Netflix-commissioned report that found that 71 percent of youths in a US community sample talked to a parent about the series.

Dr Hong said this possibly indicates some differences in the ability or desire of youths at high risk of suicide to have such discussions with their parents.

Of the 87 youths who participated in the survey - most of whom were between ages 13 and 17 - between 2017 and 2018, half had watched at least one episode of the show.

Among the 43 who had watched it, 21 said they believed it had heightened their suicide risk.

Dr Hong said: 'The data from our sample of teens demonstrated that kids who were at high risk of suicide did not reach out to adults.

'They mostly watched the show alone or talked to friends, but they weren't talking to parents, teachers or school counselors.

'Youths who are in greatest need of adult support may be less likely to seek it out.'

Many who said they believed the series increased their suicide risk said they 'strongly identified' with the lead female character, Hannah Baker.

Dr Hong said: 'The main character is easy to identify with.

'She's a teen girl who has suffered from sexual assault, bullying and anxiety - which, unfortunately, impact too many of our youth today.'

Researchers created a 44-item questionnaire to assess several aspects of youths' interactions with '13 Reasons Why'.

They said they used caution to avoid advertizing the series to those who were not already aware of it.

Teens unfamiliar with the show weren't asked additional questions.

The authors said further research is needed to gauge how media content that focuses on youth suicide can influence the mental health and suicide risk of its viewers.

Study senior author Dr Cheryl King said: 'Our findings support the need for tailored prevention programming for vulnerable youths and education and training for their parents.'

She added: 'Parents whose kids may be vulnerable or at a high risk for suicide should be even more diligent about what their kids watch and if they are being exposed to content that could trigger them.

'They also shouldn't shy away from open, honest and difficult conversations with their kids about these topics.'

====== 1691 ========

THE COUPLE WHO SAY BEING DIAGNOSED WITH PARKINSON'S IN THEIR 40S WAS ‘THE BEST THING'

A couple say they are grateful to be struck down by Parkinson's disease in their 40s after they met in a support group and fell in love.

Entrepreneur Jason Batup, 47, from Hampshire - who was first diagnosed in 2012 - initially blamed the condition for the loss of his marriage, job and family home.

But, after meeting fellow sufferer Martha Hollie, 41, in a Parkinson's UK support group for the neurological condition in March, he insists it was all a blessing in disguise.

'Because of this, in many ways, I think being diagnosed with Parkinson’s was the best thing that ever happened to me,' he says. 'Had I not had the disease I never would have met Martha.'

Loved up: Jason Batup, 47, from Hampshire (right) pictured with girlfriend Martha Hollie

The first signs of the disease that would change Mr Batup's life forever emerged on a family skiing trip to Courchevel, France, over Christmas in 2007.

An experienced skier, he could not understand why he was struggling to make it down a green run - intended for beginners - that he could normally complete with his eyes shut.

'I quickly realised that the problem was that my right leg wasn't moving with the rest of my body,' he recalled. 'I started shouting at it, "Why won't you work?".

'Then, before I knew it, I was lying in a heap in the snow.'

Telling Lisa, 49, his then-wife-of-20-years, and their two sons, Luke, 21, and Joshua, 19, that it was nothing to worry about, little did he realise that it was the start of something far more serious.

Finally, in July 2012, after visiting his GP complaining of having lost so much movement in his right arm that it was stopping him from using a computer mouse, Mr Batup was told he had early-onset Parkinson's disease.

Fighting fit: Mr Batup - pictured here keeping healthy with Ms Hollie - admits he was utterly dumbfounded with his diagnosis, which is usually seen in the elderly

Fate: The couple are now totally inseparable and credit the condition with their happiness

It was all the more shocking because, a disease more prevalent in pensioners in their 70s and 80s, only 1,500 people under 50 in the UK have the condition - accounting for just one per cent of the nation’s Parkinson’s sufferers.

Remembering the day of his diagnosis, he said: 'Before I'd even sat down in the surgery, my doctor told me I had tested positive for Parkinson's.

I can honestly say that my life is so much better than it was before being diagnosed with Parkinson's. Martha Hollie

'It was never in my mind at all that I might have the condition. I had just thought I'd pulled a muscle in my stomach. I was utterly dumbfounded.'

Determined to help, Lisa, who he met in the mid 1990s when they both worked in a video shop and married in 1997, quickly began organising physiotherapy for her husband. But, despite their best efforts, with time, the strain put on their relationship by his condition, which forced him to stop running his business in Bracknell, Herts,. started to show.

'For some couples, this sort of thing can bring people closer, but for us, sadly, it pulled us apart,' he said. 'Soon we were just living separate lives in the same house.'

Incredulously, in April 2017, she asked him to leave the family home where they lived with their two sons, according to Jason.

It's not clear why she didn't volunteer to leave instead.

Too cute: Instantly smitten, they exchanged numbers and arranged to meet for a second time at the Devon seaside in August, where love blossomed

'We had so much in common and pretty much instantaneously it was clear there was some spark between us,' Mr Batup recalls of how their relationship gradually took off

Fellow sufferer: Ms Hollie, of Modbury, Devon, was told she had Parkinson's in 2016 after almost a decade of misdiagnosed symptoms

WHAT IS YOUNG ONSET PARKINSON'S DISEASE? Young onset Parkinson's disease (YOPD) affects people under 50 years old. In the US, around two to 10 per cent of sufferers are under 50, while just 1.2 per cent are in the UK. Parkinson's is usually diagnosed in those over 60. Parkinson's in general affects one in 500 people, and around 127,000 people in the UK live with the condition. It is a progressive neurological condition which destroys cells in the part of the brain that controls movement. Sufferers are known to have diminished supplies of dopamine because nerve cells which make it die. There is currently no cure and no way of stopping the progression of the disease, but hundreds of scientific trials are underway to try and change that. Symptoms include: Tremors of the hands, arms, legs, jaw and face

Rigidity of the limbs and torso

Slowed movement

Impaired balance and coordination Sufferers may also experience depression, insomnia and cognitive problems.

Devastated that Parkinson's had cost him so dearly, he spent an unhappy year living alone in a flat in Wokingham, hoping that his wife would take him back. But the separation eventually helped him to face the fact they had drifted too far apart to reconcile as a couple, although they are now friends.

Determined to help others with the incurable disease - which causes tremors, stiffness and, most worryingly, occasionally freezing movement altogether - Mr Batup started helping others with the condition, meeting Ms Hollie in Plymouth, Devon, in March 2018, while speaking at a support group meeting.

Instantly smitten, they exchanged numbers and, texting like teenagers for a few weeks, they then arranged to meet for a second time at the Devon seaside in August, where love blossomed.

'I was getting involved with Parkinson's UK, a support charity for people with the condition, when we met,' he says. 'It had started to make me look at my illness more positively, pushing me to make the most of the life that I do have.

'One day, I went to one of their support sessions and got talking to a lovely woman - Martha. We had so much in common and pretty much instantaneously it was clear there was some spark between us.'

That said, while Jason says their mutual understanding of each other's illness is a welcome bonus, he insists it is not the only reason why he fell in love.

'I don’t see Martha as a Parkinson’s sufferer and I would have been besotted with her anyhow. But we know how the other one feels instinctively and can empathise without being condescending.

'That’s all you want really – someone who understands what you’re going through.

'Sometimes, when my medication wears off and you can feel yourself freezing up in public, you don’t want to make a fuss and draw attention.

'Martha gets that and I know that I can just give her a nod and she understands perfectly.'

Ms Hollie, of Modbury, Devon, who was told she had Parkinson's in 2016 after almost a decade of misdiagnosed symptoms, agrees.

Fact: Parkinson's affects one in 500 people and around 127,000 UK people live with it

'I can honestly say that my life is so much better than it was before being diagnosed,' she says

Never having had a major relationship before meeting Mr Batup, she said: 'I suffered with symptoms of Parkinson's for about 10 years and it made me very depressed - having this problem, but not knowing what it was.

'Being diagnosed with Parkinson's was a relief really, because it allowed me to move on. But, more importantly, it led to me meeting Jason, who has made my life so much better.

'Initially, I didn't want to meet other Parkinson's sufferers, as it made it too 'real'. Meeting Jason changed all that, though. Instantly I knew there was something between us and that it would go somewhere.

'I can honestly say that my life is so much better than it was before being diagnosed with Parkinson's.'

====== 1692 ========

ONE IN FOUR WOMEN SAY TAKING THE CONTRACEPTIVE HAS DAMAGED THEIR MENTAL HEALTH

A Danish study found women on the pill were more likely to try to kill themselves

And there are thought to be links to depression and suicide attempts

Experts say there is a small increase in the risk of breast cancer and blood clots

Dr Zoe Williams presented an episode of Horizon exploring effects of the pill

More than three million women in the UK take the contraceptive pill but fears of it causing depression and even leading to suicidal thoughts are common.

Two thirds of women taking the pill (66 per cent) admit they don't actually know what the hormones it contains are doing to their body.

And a quarter of users polled in a new episode of the BBC's Horizon said taking the contraceptive has damaged their mental health.

A study done in Denmark claims taking the pill increases a woman's chance of needing antidepressants by 70 per cent, and makes women between the ages of 15 and 19 twice as likely to try and kill themselves.

So TV doctor Zoe Williams, in a new episode of the BBC's Horizon, has spoken to experts and pill users to dig out the facts on how safe the drug really is.

Dr Zoe Williams has spoken to experts from around the UK and in Denmark to get to the bottom of claims the contraceptive pill is bad for women's health, exploring its links to breast cancer, blood clots and depression

'Side effects can range from mildly inconvenient to potentially fatal,' Dr Williams said in the documentary, which aired on BBC Two last night.

The contraceptive pill was first introduced in the UK in 1961 and works by controlling a woman's menstrual cycle with synthetic hormones.

In essence, the programme explained, the pill puts the ovaries to sleep, stopping it from releasing any eggs and preventing women from becoming pregnant.

But Dr Williams went on a mission to find out whether changing the body's hormone balance in this way can have unwanted health effects.

One of the most serious claims is that the pill can cause depression and even lead to suicide attempts – something which has been backed up in theory by studies.

Some 25 per cent of the women in Horizon's survey of 1,000 18 to 45-year-olds on the pill said taking the drug had negatively affected their mental health.

Vicky Spratt, a 30-year-old journalist for Grazia magazine, used the contraceptive when she was younger and said it made her brain feel 'mouldy'.

She said: 'It's very difficult to know when you're a teenager whether the emotions you're experiencing are your own because of your naturally fluctuating hormones or as a result of the synthetic hormones in the pill you're taking.

'At that point in your life you don't have an emotional point of reference.

'I felt like my brain had gone off, it felt mouldy. I remember thinking if this is what the rest of my life is going to be like, I don't know if I can live it.'

Ms Spratt said her doctors didn't think to make the link between her crumbling mental health and the pill, but said she returned to normal 'within weeks' of stopping taking it.

Another woman, Danielle, 31, called the effects of the pill on her mental health 'terrifying'.

Danielle said: 'I had never experienced any mental health problems prior to that and I went from being fine to having suicidal thoughts within about six months.'

Dr Williams then spoke to a doctor in Denmark who did a study looking at the medical records of 1.8million Danish women taking the pill over a 20-year period.

Professor Ojvind Lidegaard, from the University of Copenhagen, found the pill increased the likelihood of a woman using antidepressants by 70 per cent, from eight in every 100 to 14 per 100.

He said: 'On average all [pill] users from the start had a 70 per cent higher use of antidepressants compared to never users.

'When we look at teenagers between 15 and 19 they more than doubled in depression among hormonal contraception users than never users.'

And the risk of attempting suicide increased, too – 15 to 19-year-olds were twice as likely to try and kill themselves if they were taking the pill.

'The increase in risk of suicide attempt was 100 per cent and the increase in risk of suicide ... was three-fold,' he added.

Dr Williams explained there is no scientific evidence to prove the pill was directly causing the depression or suicide attempts, just that there is a correlation.

US STUDY DENIES THE PILL CAUSES DEPRESSION Hormonal birth control does not increase women's risk of depression, research by Ohio State University suggested in February 2017. Contrary to popular belief, contraceptive pills, implants or injections do not make women more likely to suffer from the mental-health condition, the study said. Lead author Dr Brett Worly said: 'Depression is a concern for a lot of women when they're starting hormonal contraception. 'Based on our findings, this side effect shouldn't be a concern for most women, and they should feel comfortable knowing they're making a safe choice.' The researchers blame platforms such as social media for making contraception complications seem more common than they are. Dr Worly said: 'We live in a media-savvy age where if one or a few people have severe side effects, all of a sudden, that gets amplified to every single person. 'The biggest misconception is that birth control leads to depression. For most patients that's just not the case.' The scientists add, however, certain women are at a greater risk of the mental-health disorder and should be monitored closely. Dr Worly said: 'Adolescents will sometimes have a higher risk of depression, not necessarily because of the medicine they're taking, but because they have that risk to start with. 'For those patients, it's important that they have a good relationship with their healthcare provider so they can get the appropriate screening done - regardless of the medications they're on.' The researchers reviewed thousands of studies investigating the link between contraceptives and people's mental health. Such studies included various methods of contraception, including injections, implants and pills. Participants in the trials were made up of teenagers, women with a history of depression and those who had given birth in the past six weeks.

It isn't possible to carry out a scientific study using placebo pills, she said, because women would get pregnant by accident.

But she added women don't have to put up with a pill which harms their mental health – they should speak to their doctor about any concerns.

Dr Williams also explored claims the pill can increase the risk of breast cancer by 20 per cent.

Professor Philip Hannaford, a contraceptive safety researcher at the University of Aberdeen, confirms it can cause a rise of around 20 per cent, but he explained the relative risk and calls it 'a small increase on a small risk'.

Among women not taking the pill, Professor Hannaford said, scientists expect there to be 55 cases of breast cancer per 100,000 women.

Whereas among 100,000 women all taking the pill, there would be an average of 68 cases of cancer. There are 13 extra cases per 100,000 women because of the pill.

Professor Hannaford explained: 'This additional risk comes about due to the oestrogen in the pill. Oestrogen can in some cases stimulate breast cancer cells and cause them to grow. But 13 is a low number'.

This extra risk begins to fall back to average levels when women stop taking the pill, Professor Hannaford added.

And the contraceptive can protect against ovarian, endometrial and colorectal cancer, with these benefits continuing for decades after the pill is stopped.

Nearly half (48 per cent) of women in a survey of 1,000 18 to 45-year-olds said they were worried about the increased risk of blood clots caused by the pill.

Blood clots are cause for concern because if they break up and travel to the heart they can cause a potentially fatal pulmonary embolism by clogging up an artery.

But another expert, Professor Roopen Arya, from King's College Hospital, explained smoking, obesity, and not exercising are all much more likely to cause blood clots than the pill.

And even the one thing the pill is designed to prevent – being pregnant – causes a far larger increase in risk.

While women not taking the pill have an average risk of 20 women out of 100,000 getting a blood clot, this rises to up to 120 per 100,000 among those taking newer versions of the contraceptive.

But pregnant women have a much higher 290 per 100,000 risk, and in the weeks after childbirth the risk skyrockets to 4,000 clots per every 100,000 mothers.

A misunderstanding of blood clot risk in 1995 led to huge numbers of women stopping the pill.

As a result there were 13,600 extra abortions and a 25 per cent rise in births the following year, costing the NHS an estimated £67million.

Dr Williams explained doctors can identify women who are at high risk of developing blood clots and reduce the danger to their health by changing pills or offering them alternative contraception.

Professor Ojvind Lidegaard, from the University of Copenhagen, found taking the pill almost doubled the use of antidepressants from eight per cent of women to 14 per cent.

The programme also investigated claims the pill can cause women to put on weight, by visiting scientists at Nottingham Trent University.

There, Professor Philip McTernan, head of biosciences, explained hormones can affect fat distribution in the body, but it's hard to separate the effects of the pill from natural changes.

He said oestrogen and progesterone can increase the number of fat cells in the body, but they were likely only immature cells which don't lead to weight gain.

And the pill can increase the amount of water a woman's body retains, which could be seen from the outside as weight gain.

'[By] being on the pill, you're changing how much water is retained in your tissue so you're going to put on what is perceived as some more weight,' Professor McTernan said. 'Maybe as much as 2kg.'

He said all types of the pill seem to have the same effect.

And on the subject of gaining fat he added: 'Studies also indicate that as you age you will also gain more weight so it's very difficult to tie this specifically to contraceptives.'

The episode of Horizon is available on BBC iPlayer.

====== 1693 ========

CALIFORNIA BLAMED FOR E. COLI-INFECTED ROMAINE: A THIRD OF ILLNESSES ARE IN LA COUNTY

California may be the source of the E. coli-infected romaine lettuce sickening people across the US and Canada.

A third of the 32 cases reported on Tuesday were reported in Los Angeles County, CBS reports.

Most of the lettuce bought and sold in Southern California is grown in the state, industry figures told the site.

'Given the harvest cycle at that time, I think there's a good possibility that it came from California, yes,' Scott Horsfall, CEO of the California Leafy Greens Marketing Agreement (LGMA), told CBS.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

This time, 32 people in 11 states have been struck down by lettuce-linked E. coli - 13 of whom are receiving hospital treatment. The CDC told anyone with romaine at home to throw it away

The LGMA was formed in 2007 after a particularly aggressive E. coli outbreak which sickened 200 people.

The group, made up of farmers across California, created guidelines and surveillance to spot infection issues earlier.

Unfortunately, Horsfall said, it's going to be a tall order tracing this infection right back to the exact source.

'[B]y the time they're actually doing trace-back, there is no packaging left, there's no product left,' he said.

The strain causing the current outbreak - E. coli O157:H7 - is the same as the one which caused an outbreak last year from romaine and unspecified leafy greens grown in Canada.

It is not the same strain as the one from Yuma, Arizona, which sickened dozens and killed five earlier this year.

This time, 32 people in 11 states have been struck down by lettuce-linked E. coli - 13 of whom are receiving hospital treatment.

In all previous outbreaks this year the agency has been careful with its wording, saying officials couldn't be sure which romaine we should be concerned about.

But now, they aren't taking chances: the CDC said anyone with romaine at home should throw it away - even if you're not sure it's romaine but suspect it might be.

'Do not eat any romaine lettuce, including whole heads and hearts, chopped, organic and salad mixes with romaine until we learn more,' the agency said on Tuesday afternoon.

'If you don’t know if it’s romaine or can’t confirm the source, don’t eat it.'

Most people infected with E. coli develop diarrhea and vomiting. More severe infections can lead to kidney failure.

The cases in the current outbreak started emerging on October 8.

Thus far, cases have been identified in California, Wisconsin, Illinois, Michigan, Ohio, New York, New Jersey, Maryland, Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Hampshire.

Another 18 people have been sickened by romaine lettuce in the same time period in Ontario and Quebec in Canada.

Beyond warning consumers, the agency has told all retailers and restaurants to stop serving and selling romaine until they learn more about the outbreak.

'This investigation is ongoing and the advice will be updated as more information is available.'

Experts say the warning could have disastrous consequences for all agriculture companies that deal with salad - whether they produce romaine or not.

Michael Droke, a partner at the international law firm Dorsey & Whitney devoted to the areas of agriculture and cooperative law, told DailyMail.com: 'A [warning] of this magnitude especially during the holiday week will impact not only romaine, but other leafy green vegetables such as spinach.

'Retailers will be pulling romaine and possibly all other lettuce/leafy greens from their shelves (a process called quarantining) until the source is found.'

====== 1694 ========

TOBACCO DURING PREGNANCY INCREASES BABY'S OBESITY RISK

Mothers who smoke cigarettes during pregnancy increase the risk of their child becoming obese, new research shows.

The rate of tobacco use among pregnant women in the US is plummeting (though cannabis use is climbing), but health officials are still concerned about nicotine addiction among young women, particularly since e-cigarettes hit the market.

The new study by Kentucky University hammers home the dangers by revealing, for the first time, evidence that combustible cigarettes increase levels of a fat-fueling protein in a woman's unborn baby.

The discovery sheds fresh light on a phenomenon that has been identified in previous research but could not be explained.

Tobacco among pregnant women in the US is dropping (as cannabis use climbs), but vapes have officials concerned about young women's nicotine addiction. This Kentucky study shows yet more reasons tobacco is dangerous to unborn babies

Previous studies already identified links between tobacco during pregnancy and low birth weight and premature delivery of the baby.

But evidence is now emerging of the way in which it affects the child's health in the long-term.

In the first study of its kind the team at Kentucky University found cigarette smoke chemicals cross the placenta - boosting amounts of a molecule called chemerin.

The protein is associated with obesity: the greater it is expressed, the stronger the likelihood of a child being overweight, and finding it hard to slim down.

Corresponding author Dr Kevin Pearson said: 'Our long-term plan is to study the impact of exercise during pregnancy and its ability to improve health outcomes in offspring.

'However, as we began to transition our work from laboratory animals to humans, it quickly became apparent that a fairly high percentage of the pregnant population delivering at our hospital continued to smoke cigarettes throughout pregnancy.

'Thus, we set out to investigate the mechanisms of why babies born to smokers are at risk for later diseases.'

The study published in Experimental Physiology was based on analysis of tissue which is normally discarded following birth.

Chemerin is produced by fat cells and is present in higher amounts in the blood of obese people.

The researchers used the foreskins of recently circumcised newborn males to study levels in those exposed to cigarette smoke during pregnancy.

The samples are safe and simple to collect and the researchers had previously demonstrated it to have similar properties to other tissues - like fat.

This would have been too invasive to collect from babies, said lead author Dr Leryn Reynolds.

The results showed chemerin was more prevalent in the skin of infants whose mothers smoked during pregnancy.

More detailed analysis suggested that this increased expression corresponded with reduced DNA methylation - a process which regulates it.

Dr Reynolds said this suggests smoking in pregnancy leads to changes in the regulation of genes which play an important role in fat cell development and obesity.

The team now plans to measure chemerin levels in isolated cells from the umbilical cord of both baby boys and girls - which is similarly easy to obtain.

They also hope to conduct experiments on smoke exposure during pregnancy in mice, as it is easier to control for other factors which might affect obesity.

Further various tissues can also be measured to assess gene expression in order to better understand how smoke exposure in the womb impacts the whole body.

Dr Pearson said: 'In the future, we would love to work on ways to improve smoking cessation programs or ways that we can increase exercise levels in smokers as a way to combat the negative outcomes in offspring, but we are really just starting to scratch the surface in this area.'

====== 1695 ========

WOMAN IS FORCED TO LIVE IN THE DARK FOR 11 YEARS AS SHE IS EXTREMELY ALLERGIC TO LIGHT

A woman is forced to live in the dark due to a one-in-a-million condition that has made her severely 'allergic' to the sun.

Fatima Perez, 54, who suffers from Xeroderma Pigmentosum (XP), has to spend all day inside due to her being extremely sensitive to UV light.

The condition caused her to lose her hair and eyesight by the time she was 20, and she lives in fear that one day the sun could kill her.

Ms Perez, whose brother died of the same condition, is forced to repeatedly reapply sun cream every two hours even while inside her home in Waterford, Connecticut, where in the summer months days are 15 hours long.

Fatima Perez, 54, has lived most of her life inside due to having Xeroderma Pigmentosum

Ms Perez grew up in the Dominican Republic. Her condition baffled her family, and her brother died of the same condition aged nine. Pictured on her 15th birthday

Even when Ms Perez is inside, she has to apply suncream every two hours to protect her skin

Born and raised in the Dominican Republic, the condition was a mystery to her family. Here, she lived exposed to the sun for 23 years.

She said: 'The first thing I felt was a lot of itching and burning. At this point skin wouldn't even grow on me.

'Doctors told my parents that my disease was Xeroderma Pigmentosum. But they never told us that the sun could kill me.'

Her brother died of the same condition when he was nine, and feeling unsupported in her country, she left for the US.

'Twenty-three years in the Dominican Republic and 11 in the US until I learnt how my condition works. That's when I finally stayed out of the sun.'

On the rare occasions she has to leave her home, which has tinted windows and the blinds always down, she covers her entire body in protective attire that weighs around five pounds.

'I put on a poncho made of two layers of the thickest denim covering me down to my knees', she wrote on website XP Grupo Luz de Ezperanza, the charity she founded.

'The hood attached to the poncho covers my face almost completely.

'I wear dark wrap around sunglasses and a hat made of sun protection material with an extra large visor in the front.

'Finally, I put on gloves to protect my hands... This outfit must be worn whenever I go outside, regardless of how hot the temperature is.'

When Ms Perez leaves her home, in Connecticut, USA, she must completely cover up with thick clothes, a hood and gloves. Pictured walking with her sister, shaded by an umbrella

Ms Perez has suffered a lifetime of skin cancer, and has lost her sight and hair

Ms Perez has had 'hundreds of skin cancers' removed from her whole body

Ms Perez must measure the light in a room with a special device

WHAT IS XERODERMA PIGMENTOSUM? Xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) is an inherited condition that causes extreme sensitivity to UV rays from the sun. It has been described as a 'one-in-a-million' condition. XP is brought on by a genetic mutation. Sufferers require complete protection from the sun, including clothing, sun cream and dark sunglasses. Eighty-to-90 per cent of sufferers also experience: Joint pain

Cognitive problems

Teeth abnormalities Due to sufferers being at high risk of sunburn, skin cancer is extremely common among patients. There is no cure for XP. Management of the condition includes protection from UV light, frequent skin examinations and prompt removal of any cancerous tissue. Source: National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences

Ms Perez said: 'From any kind of light like fluorescent light halogen light is the one that has the most ultraviolet rays.

'Sometimes I can be under a light and not be able to see, I don't notice it's burning me.'

The disorder also means Ms Perez has suffered a lifetime of skin cancer.

She explained: 'I have had hundreds of skin cancers removed from me from my whole body.

'My feet, my thighs, my legs. Only in this leg from here to my feet I have had nine skin cancers removed.'

XP is caused when DNA in a cell is unable to repair itself after exposure to ultraviolet light.

Without this repair mechanism working, the skin is left vulnerable to radiation damage which could lead to both benign and malignant skin cancers.

Ms Perez carries a light meter wherever she goes, to measure how much UV light is in each source and determine whether she is safe to be near it.

XP has been described as a 'one-in-a-million' condition.

Body Bizarre is on Saturdays at 10pm on TLC UK.

====== 1696 ========

MOST US TEENAGERS TRY WEED BEFORE ALCOHOL OR CIGARETTES, STUDY FINDS

A growing number of teenagers now try marijuana as their first foray into intoxicants, new research has revealed.

Beer or some booze used to be the the first thing teenagers would sneak when their parents weren't looking.

But alcohol and cigarettes alike have fallen out of favor in US youth culture in recent year.

Marijuana use isn't on a particularly steep rise among teenagers, but as its become more available in the 30 states that have legalized it for medical or recreational use, cannabis has now eclipsed other substances s the first thing teens want to try.

Columbia University researchers noted that the easiest thing for young people to get their hands on is often the first thing they will try.

Marijuana is now the favorite first illicit substance for teenagers in the US. The drug has continued to steadily gain popularity as teen smoking and drinking rates hit record lows

Underage substance use has long been a public health priority in the US.

This was perhaps never more true than during the 1970s and 1980s after former President Richard Nixon declared a a war on drugs, calling substance abuse 'public enemy number one.'

The primary targets of the 'war' and the DARE program were purportedly heroin and crack cocaine, but marijuana bore the brunt of the movement's effects.

Decades later, marijuana's medical benefits are being recognized, while the results of long and patient campaigns against subtler, more insidious substances - alcohol and tobacco - are becoming more and more apparent.

Cigarettes and alcohol have long been considered the 'gateway drugs' for American youth.

But, these days, fewer teenagers are drinking and smoking than ever.

In 1977, about a third of high school seniors said they smoked every day, according to the new Columbia University study.

In 2017, just five percent of 12th graders said the lit up daily.

A similar switch has happened with alcohol.

Even as their adult counterparts drink more, do so more frequently, and tend to binge more, teenagers have been on better behavior.

In fact, fewer high school students drink now than the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has recorded in the past 25 years.

Marijuana, on the other hand, has continued to gain popularity among legal adult users and teenagers alike.

This is worrisome to public health officials and parents, as research suggests that marijuana may interfere with brain development, learning and memory.

That may mean creating tighter controls on particularly teen-accessible forms of marijuana - such as vaporized cannabis and edibles that don't carry the tell-tale smell - may help reduce teen use.

And if marijuana is the new gateway substance, then reducing teen use should drive down alcohol and cigarette use, too, the Columbia University researchers hope.

'The lack of decline in marijuana use, and its increasing prominence in the sequence of substance use during adolescence, suggests that marijuana is, and will continue to be, a key target of drug use prevention efforts,' they wrote in the journal Drug and Alcohol Dependence.

====== 1697 ========

REGULAR EXERCISERS HAVE THE HEARTS AND MUSCLES OF PEOPLE DECADES YOUNGER THAN THEM

Physically fit pensioners have almost identical muscles to 25-year-olds, a study has found.

Experts from Ball State University in Muncie, Indiana, studied 28 people over 70 who have been exercising consistently since the 1970s to determine how staying active can offset the physical decline associated with ageing.

The results, published in the Journal of Applied Physiology, also noted those who work-out regularly shave 30 years of their body's 'biological' age compared to their peers.

Keep fit: Those who work-out regularly shave 30 years of their body's 'biological' age, according to experts from Ball State University in Muncie, Indiana

Interestingly, the subjects were not athletes, but people who adopted fitness into their lifestyle during the exercise boom of the 1970s.

'We were very interested in people who had started exercising during the running and exercise booms of the 1970s,' Scott Trappe, professor of exercise science and the study’s senior author, said.

'They took up exercise as a hobby.'

Using social media, the researchers found 28 people maintained this level of activity for five decades.

They also recruited two other groups: inactive 70-year-olds and fit 20-year-olds.

The scientists tested the participants' aerobic capacities and measured the number of capillaries and enzymes in their muscles - high levels of which demonstrate muscular health.

Inspired: 20-year-olds can maintain healthy muscles into old age if they exercise consistently

Pensioners told to eat cake, put cream in coffee and FRY food 'to avoid malnutrition' More than a million pensioners should be encouraged to put cream in their coffee and fry rather than grill their food, experts say. Dr Simon Gabe, president of British Association for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition, said: 'The general advice for those with malnutrition or for those at risk is to maximise their food intake. 'You can have cream in your coffee instead of milk, fry instead of grill, add butter to your scrambled eggs, give that chicken an extra brush of oil before putting it in the oven and stock up on cakes.' 'For too long, the public have been given health messages focussed on reducing levels of obesity and while obesity is a huge problem, for the malnourished, the best thing to do is ignore these messages entirely and seek professional advice.'

Interestingly, the muscles of the older exercisers matched those of the 20-year-olds.

Similarly, they had far more capillaries and enzymes in their muscles than the inactive pensioners - meaning they had effectively staved-off the physical impact of old age.

In fact, the only difference between both active groups - young and old - was a slightly decreased aerobic potential.

But, for the fit pensioners, this was still 40 per cent higher than their sedentary peers.

Moreover, when the data was compared to national averages at different ages, the active pensioners had the cardiovascular health of people 30 years younger.

The results suggest the ageing population could 'build a reserve' of good health, the researchers said.

'These people were so vigorous,' Professor Trappe said.

'I’m in my 50s and they certainly inspire me to stay active.'

====== 1698 ========

SCRIPT OF CHRISTMAS CLASSIC IT’S A WONDERFUL LIFE PAINTED AT TRAIN STATIONS TO BOOST MENTAL HEALTH

The most famous quotes of Christmas classic It's A Wonderful Life will appear on UK train platforms in a new mental health initiative.

Over 7.5km of memorable script from the 1947 hit - which tacitly chronicles one man's suicide bid - will be spray-painted at 14 locations over the next two weeks, including; London, Birmingham, Liverpool, Manchester, Preston, Carlisle and Glasgow.

The yellow markings will direct customers to information, advice and support around emotional well-being during the festive period.

The venture is a combined effort by UK charity Rethink Mental Illness and Virgin Trains, who'll roll-out the project on their West Coast route.

Christmas classic with a timeless message: James Stewart and Donna Reid star in Frank Capra's It's A Wonderful Life, which tacitly addresses the issue of male suicide

Officially launched in London's Euston today, the campaign will next appear in Rugby, Birmingham International and Birmingham New Street, then Stafford.

Stoke-on-Trent and Crewe follow suit, before it reaches Warrington Bank Quay, Liverpool Lime Street and Manchester Piccadilly.

It will then appear in Preston, Penrith, Carlisle and, finally, Glasgow.

SUICIDE: THE STATISTICS In 2017 there were 6,213 suicides in the UK and Republic of Ireland. 5,821 suicides were registered in the UK and 392 occurred in Ireland. In the UK men remain three times more likely to take their own lives than women, and in the Republic of Ireland four times more likely. The highest suicide rate in the UK was for men aged 45-49. The highest suicide rate in the Republic of Ireland was for men aged 25–34 (with an almost identical rate for men aged 45–54). SOURCE: The Samaritans

According to Rethink Mental Illness, the initiative could save countless lives over the festive period, when feelings of isolation can be exacerbated.

They cite month-by-month data from the Office of National Statistics, which shows a surge in suicides every January dating from 1981-2015.

This, they say, is thought to be due to the so-called January blues, when the celebrations are over, finances are stretched and the days are short.

Much like the film's protagonist, George Bailey, it's men who remain the most at-risk suicide group in the UK.

Data from The Samaritans - who consulted on the project - show that UK men remain three times more likely to take their own lives than women, while men in Ireland are four times more likely.

Intervention: A station employee at Euston adorns a platform with one of the film's quotes, which reminds people of the importance of kindnesses this Christmas

Going live: The project - which name-checks the film's guardian angel, Clarence - officially launched in London's Euston today and will snake up the country over the fourteen dates

Compelling: The move could save countless lives during the Christmas and New Year celebrations, when feelings of isolation are exacerbated across the nation

Where and when will the quotes appear? NOVEMBER • Rugby – 23rd • Birmingham Int. – 27th • Birmingham New St. – 28th • Stafford – 29th • Stoke-on-Trent – 30th DECEMBER • Crewe – 3rd • Warrington Bank Quay – 4th • Liverpool Lime Street – 5th • Manchester Piccadilly – 6th • Preston – 10th • Penrith – 11th • Carlisle – 12th • Glasgow – 13th

To help combat this, the long-running charity recently implemented their own pre-emptive measure with a new campaign: Small Talk Saves Lives.

This encourages people to start a conversation if they see someone looking isolated, withdrawn or alone on a platform without boarding a train.

Natasha Grice, Executive Director of People at Virgin Trains, hopes their efforts will also be compelling.

'It’s A Wonderful Life is a story of hope, redemption and kindness, which teaches us that having someone there for you when you need it the most is one of the greatest gifts you can receive.

'Many of our people have been personally affected by the issues raised in this campaign or know someone who has been.

'This is why we wanted to get as many of our staff involved as possible, working to create a message of kindness that will touch as many of our customers as we can.

'We want everyone to know there’s help out there, and that if you’re not affected by poor mental health, it’s really easy to help someone who is.'

Wonderful: The messages direct customers – via a URL embedded in the copy – to information, advice and support around emotional well-being during the festive period

Moving: The poignant quotes are set to resonate with passengers on Virgin's West Coast route

====== 1699 ========

OVER HALF OF FORMER INTENSIVE CARE PATIENTS SUFFER FROM ANXIETY, PTSD OR DEPRESSION

More than half of patients who survive a critical illness requiring care in an intensive care unit suffer anxiety, PTSD or depression within a year after discharge.

The numbers of patients who suffer psychologically are greater than first thought, revealed an Oxford University study.

And when they suffer symptoms of one psychological condition, there is a 64 per cent chance they will co-occur with symptoms of another.

Those who are depressed are 47 cent more likely to die in the two years following discharge, the study shows.

Scientists said ICU patients should be screened to spot those who may have the psychological disorders.

More than half of former intensive care patients suffer from mental health problems such as PTSD within a year of being discharged from intensive care, an Oxford University study found

New or worsening impairment in physical, cognitive or mental health status following treatment in ICU is known as post-intensive care syndrome (PICS).

Dr Peter Watkinson, Associate Professor of Intensive Care Medicine, said: 'The psychopathological components of PICS are estimated to occur in up to a third of survivors of ICU treatment.

'The major psychological conditions described are anxiety, depression and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).'

What is post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)? Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is an anxiety disorder caused by very stressful, frightening or distressing events. People with PTSD often suffer nightmares and flashbacks to the traumatic event and can experience insomnia and an inability to concentrate. Symptoms are often severe enough to have a serious impact on the person’s day-to-day life, and can emerge straight after the traumatic event or years later. PTSD is thought to affect about one in every three people who have a traumatic experience, and was first documented in the First World War in soldiers with shell shock. People who are worried they have PTSD should visit their GP, who could recommend a course of psychotherapy or anti-depressants, the NHS say. Combat Stress operate a 24-hour helpline for veterans, which can be reached on 0800 138 1619.

The researchers investigated psychological disorders in a cohort of 4,943 former ICU patients between 2006 and 2013.

They had at least 24 hours at level 3 ICU care and filled in a questionnaire on their symptoms of anxiety, depression and PTSD three months after discharge and again 12 months afterwards.

Findings, published in the journal Critical Care, show that 46 per cent of patients reported symptoms of anxiety, 40 per cent reported symptoms of depression and 22 per cent reported symptoms of PTSD.

And 18 per cent reported symptoms of all three psychological conditions.

Prof Watkinson said: 'Psychological problems after being treated for a critical illness in the ICU are very common and often complex when they occur.

'When symptoms of one psychological disorder are present, there is a 65 per cent chance they will co-occur with symptoms of another psychological disorder.'

The study also found that depression is linked to higher mortality rates for common medical conditions such as heart disease, respiratory illness, cerebrovascular disease, accidents, diabetes mellitus and hypertension.

This is the first time an association between despression and an increased rate of mortality has been shown, according to the authors.

Prof Watkinson said: 'It remains unclear whether clinicians are overlooking the screening and treatment of depression in favour of treating chronic medical conditions or whether there is a biological association between chronic illness and depression.

'In the post-ICU population, the observed association between depression and mortality could be in part explained by the severity of chronic illness both pre-discharge and post-discharge, factors we did not adjust for in this study.

Depression could be a factor not previously considered in post-ICU survival.

'Given the incidence of depression amongst survivors, symptoms of this condition should be detected and managed during the time following ICU in primary care and in ICU follow-up clinics.'

There were 271,079 records of adults in an intensive care unit in the year 2015-2016, according to NHS figured. Patients aged 50 years and over accounted for 77 per cent.

He noted because of the observational nature of the study and its reliance of self-reported data mean that it does not allow for conclusions about cause and effect between ICU care and symptoms of psychological disorders.

====== 1700 ========

MOTHER, 36, IGNORES HER DAUGHTER’S SCREAMS FOR FOOD AS RARE CONDITION LEAVES HER CONSTANTLY HUNGRY

A mother is forced to ignore her seven-year-old daughter's screams for food due to a rare condition which leaves her feeling constantly hungry.

Megan Fitzgerald, from Bilton, Hull, was diagnosed with the rare genetic condition, Prader-Willi Syndrome, which Katie Price's son Harvey also has.

Symptoms of the disorder, caused by a defect on chromosome number 15, also include learning difficulties and growth abnormalities, affecting one in 15,000 children born in the UK.

Tracy Fitzgerald, 36, says it is heartbreaking to ignore her daughters cries, but worries she will become obese and face health problems if she gives in.

Megan Fitzgerald, seven, has Prader-Willi Syndrome, a rare genetic condition that causes constant urges to eat food and learning difficulties. She is pictured in hospital this year

Mother, Tracy Fitzgerald, 36, says she must ignore her daughters screams for food in case she becomes dangerously obese. (Pictured in hospital this year for an unrelated leg condition)

Megan was diagnosed with condition at just five-weeks-old. Her mother started to notice how regularly her daughter would cry out for constant feeding as she grew up.

Mrs Fitzgerald, also mother to Nathan, six, has to ignore her daughters breakdowns when she begs for food and cannot even discuss food if she is around.

She said: 'When I tell her that she cannot have any more food she immediately starts to cry and scream, but I can't give in and feed her.

'No food is ever left on show for her to see, we have to completely avoid food at social events and we can't even whisper anything about food as it will set her off.

'It is absolutely heartbreaking every time she has a breakdown and it's not a mothers reaction to ignore her, but it has to be done.'

After giving birth to her daughter eight weeks early, the mother-of-two was told that there was something wrong with little Megan from the offset.

However, it wasn't until five weeks later that the family were given the diagnosis that she suffered with a rare condition that affects one in every 15,000 children born in England.

Mrs Fitzgerald, a HR adviser, said: 'We were told that she had a chromosome abnormality, but it wasn't until a few weeks later that we were told it was Prader-Willi syndrome.

Alongside a constant feeling of needing to eat, the condition means that Megan also has learning difficulties.

Mrs Fitzgerald, pictured with her two children, Megan and Nathan, must hide food and avoid talking about it or social situations, as Megan often becomes upset

Megan can eat six times the amount of other children. Pictured with her brother, Nathan, six.

Mrs Fitzgerald said: 'All of her milestones were delayed. She was out of hospital by the time she was six-months-old, but it wasn't until she was three-years-old that she could walk by herself.'

By the age of four, Megan was eating at any opportunity she had, and up to six times the amount of other children.

'We hardly ever go out for food because she cannot cope with other people's food being served if hers is not ready - it really upsets her', Mrs Fitzgerald said.

'She's got a set routine of when she can eat and, as a family, we all have to stick to that so she doesn't even see anyone else eating food as it would trigger her.'

As she has got older, her mother describes how her abilities to find food have grown, and the restrictions have become tighter.

'As she's grown older she's continued with her need to eat and will try and get her hands on any food she can find, but over the years we've found new ways to distract her', Mrs Fitzgerald said.

She explains that she may need to start putting locks on her cupboards to stop Megan from eating everything in sight.

'I look like a horrible mother - but people don't understand', said Mrs Fitzgerald

She said: 'Although I can distract her most of the time, I cannot be there every second of the day

'A few months ago Megan helped herself to a handful of her brothers birthday cake, which she had already had a small slither of just moments earlier.

'It had been left out of the way in the kitchen but obviously not far enough from her reach, she saw an opportunity and she took it.

'I didn't want to put locks on our kitchen cupboard and fridge, but it's looking more and more likely that I'm going to have to.

'She's at the age now where she can find ways to get food herself, which means we have to have a regimented approach to food.'

Megan's brother Nathan is 'absolutely amazing' when it comes to Megan and the families' lifestyle, said Mrs Fitzgerald.

'Megan needs a lot of care and attention when it comes to her condition, so I always make sure I take Nathan out on special days out and give him as much special time together too.'

Mrs Fitzgerald is now sharing her story to raise awareness to others of the reality of the rare condition.

She said: 'I had never heard of the condition until my daughter was diagnosed with it, so I want more people to learn about it.

'If Megan has one of her moments when we're out in public, people can turn around and stare at us, and I look like a horrible mother - but people don't understand.

'Luckily all of Megan's friends and family are supportive and understanding, and make sure that they don't have food out around her.

'But as a lot of people don't understand the condition, they don't know how to act around her and what simple things can set her off.

'I hope that by sharing Megan's story, people will be able to understand the complexity of the condition.'

====== 1701 ========

BRITAIN'S GOT TALENT STAR CREDITS HER 203LB WEIGHT LOSS FOR HELPING HER FINALLY BECOME A MOTHER

A woman who lost 14-and-a-half stone (203lbs) believes her astonishing weight loss helped her become a mother after suffering eight miscarriages.

Catarina Merighi, 30, from Penge, London, lost eight pregnancies between September 2013 and June 2017, which left her so depressed she would gorge on 24 packets of crisps a night.

Although she tipped the scales at 23st 10lb (332lbs), Ms Merighi was only motivated to shift the weight after seeing an unflattering photo of herself at a friend's barbecue.

After overhauling her diet to just 1,300 calories a day and exercising up to seven times a week, the cleaner is now a svelte 9st 4lb (130lbs).

Ms Merighi, who is single and made it to the semi-finals of Britain's Got Talent in 2014, has finally achieved her dream of becoming a mother, with daughter Rosabelle arriving last year.

Catarina Merighi believes losing 14.5 stone (203lbs) helped her become a mother after she suffered eight miscarriages. Pictured at 9st 4lb (130lbs), her daughter Rosabelle arrived last year after she endured the pregnancy losses between September 2013 and June 2017

Ms Merighi is pictured on Britain's Got Talent in 2014, where she made the semi finals, while she was on her weight-loss journey. An unflattering photo motivated her to shed the pounds

Pictured with her 'beautiful girl', she is adamant losing weight helped her become a mother

Ms Merighi is pictured left at her heaviest when she tipped the scales at 23st 10lb (332lbs). Now slim (right), she says she finally feels 'content and happy within her own skin'

Ms Merighi claims she was always carrying too much weight but the problem became out of control as she got older.

'I was always a chubby kid. My mum was super healthy, and we walked everywhere but I had an extremely slow metabolism so always had that puppy fat,' she said.

'Then when I had the ability to go feed myself and buy my own stuff it spiralled.

'Honestly and truly, I hated myself, it wasn't just about looking like my friends and family and looking better. It was about the fact I knew the damage I was doing to myself.'

DOES OBESITY INCREASE THE RISK OF MISCARRIAGES? Our in four women with a BMI over 30 - defined as obese - miscarry before 12 weeks. This is compared to one in five who are of a healthy weight. Although unclear exactly why this occurs, scientists believe overweight women have higher levels of the hormone insulin in their blood, which may later the lining of the womb and affect embryo development. Carrying dangerous amounts of weight also raises the risk of pregnancy complications, such as high blood pressure and bleeding, which can result in an miscarriage.

She continued to pile on the pounds while in a long-term relationship, leaving Ms Merighi in a 'rut' of comfort eating and not exercising.

She then got a sharp reality check after seeing photos of herself taken at the BBQ on Facebook.

'I did not recognise the person I'd become,' Ms Merighi said.

'I mean I'd always been chubby from a child but this person in this picture wasn't me and I knew I had to make a change.

'Losing weight has made me a totally different person. It's built my confidence, made me happier and at least now I can run for the bus without feeling like I'm having a heart attack.

'More importantly I miscarried eight times when I was bigger and it wasn't until I lost all the weight I had my beautiful little girl, so honestly losing weight in my eyes helped me to become a mum.'

Pictured at her heaviest, Ms Merighi would gorge on 24 packets of crisps every night

The single mother (pictured with Rosabelle) says she is happier and more confident than ever

Ms Merighi claims people do not recognise and are always shocked by her transformation

Ms Merighi has since launched a personal training business to help others on their weight-loss journey.

'Not falling off the plan was the most difficult thing about the weight loss and getting on with it when I've felt disheartened,' she said.

'I've had many a moment I just gave up but then I looked at who I used to be and kept going.

'Most of the time people don't recognise me and when they realise it's me they are just shocked. I've heard it all from people asking, "where did you go?" and saying, "Kitty are you there?"

'I am finally content and happy within my own skin.

'If someone really doesn't know where to start with weight loss, read up about different plans and think about how your body reacts to certain foods.'

Pictured left before, Ms Merighi claims she 'honestly and truly hated herself'. Pictured right after losing the weight, she said she now feels like a 'totally different person'

Pictured before with a friend, Ms Merighi said she did not 'recognise the person she'd become'

====== 1702 ========

THOUSANDS OF LUNG-CANCER PATIENTS WILL GET ACCESS TO A LIFE-SAVING TREATMENT ON THE NHS

Thousands of people with lung cancer are to get access to a revolutionary triple-attack drug treatment, health officials announced last night.

Trials have shown the treatment - which combines two forms of chemotherapy with a breakthrough immunotherapy drug - doubles survival chances in the first year in which patients take it.

NHS drugs watchdog NICE gave the green light to a pilot of the new combination treatment, making available to more than 3,000 patients over the next 18 months.

If the treatment is shown to be succesful it will then be made routinely available long-term.

The decision makes a two-year course of the treatment available to adults with untreated non-small-cell lung cancer.

In a pilot scheme, 3,000 lung-cancer patients will receive a combination of the immunotherapy drug pembrolizumab (Keytruda, pictured) and two types of chemotherapy - pemetrexed and platinum chemotherapy, over the next 18 months

They will receive a combination of immunotherapy drug pembrolizumab (Keytruda) and two types of chemotherapy - pemetrexed and platinum chemotherapy.

The treatment harnesses the body’s immune system and launches at the cancer, while also blasting the tumours with chemotherapy.

A US trial of the treatment published in April saw 12-month survival rates doubled to 70 per cent using the triple treatment rather than chemotherapy alone.

The trial, of 616 patients, also showed the triple treatment stopped cancer spreading for nine months - four months longer than using chemotherapy.

NICE said that further evidence is needed on the benefits of the combination therapy before it can be made available routinely.

But they said there was enough evidence to make it temporarily available on the Cancer Drugs Fund, which means it can be used until at least June 2019 while more data is collected.

The treatment usually costs roughly £90,000 a year - but drugs giant MSD, which makes the drug, has given the NHS a confidential discount.

Meindert Boysen, director of the NICE Centre for Health Technology Evaluation, said: ‘Over the past two decades there have been few improvements for people with this type of lung cancer so we are pleased to support access to this new option via the Cancer Drugs Fund, and keen to see further data on its effectiveness as it becomes available.

‘NICE recommends that this treatment is given for a maximum of two years, because it is thought that patients do not need to continue treatment beyond this point to achieve the benefits.

‘NICE will consider this point when we review the additional evidence.’ Professor Charles Swanton, Cancer Research UK’s chief clinician, said: ‘This decision is good news for people affected by this type of lung cancer.

‘This drug combination has shown significant benefits for some patients in clinical trials, helping them to survive their cancer for longer.

‘This also shows the value of the Cancer Drugs Fund, which gives NICE the option to approve promising treatments while more data is collected on their long-term benefits.

‘Lung cancer is the biggest cancer killer in the UK so it’s vital that innovations like this reach patients as quickly as possible.’

John Stewart, NHS England’s director of specialised commissioning, said: ‘NHS England has worked closely with MSD to reach a commercial deal to make this innovative drug available to a new group of lung cancer patients.

‘This is another example of how a more flexible approach to price negotiation has clear benefits - not only for patients, but also for industry and taxpayers.’

====== 1703 ========

ICE AND SODA WATER ARE CONTAMINATED WITH FAECES AT WETHERSPOON, SLUG AND LETTUCE, AND HUNGRY HORSE

Ice and soda water served at some of the UK's leading pub chains are contaminated with faecal bacteria, an investigation has revealed.

Wetherspoon, Slug and Lettuce, Harvester, Hungry Horse and Two For One were all found to have faecal pathogens at levels 'too high to count'.

Among these bacteria were coliform strains, which can cause abdominal cramps, severe diarrhoea and fever in people with weak immune systems.

Experts claim the pathogens demonstrate poor cleaning standards at these pubs, with bacteria probably coming from staffs' unwashed hands, dirty ice trays and unhygienic soda dispensers.

Ice and soda water contaminated with faeces have been detected at Wetherspoon branches

Bacteria levels that were 'too high to count' were found in three out of ten Slug and Lettuces

And Hungry Horse also had faecal pathogens in its ice and soda water across multiple pubs

BBC's Watchdog Live visited 10 branches of each of the five pub chains last month.

Coliform bacteria was found in the ice of four of the pubs - twice at Wetherspoon, once at Two for One and at one branch of Hungry Horse.

Other types of bacteria, which were described as being 'too high to count', were found in the ice of six Hungry Horses, three Slug and Lettuce pubs, and two Harvesters.

Coliform was also detected in the soda water of two branches of Slug and Lettuce, and one Harvester.

Although harmless for most people, the bacteria can be dangerous in people with weaker immune systems, such as the elderly or those undergoing chemotherapy.

Other 'too high to count' pathogens were found in the soda water of three Slug and Lettuces, two Harvesters, one Hungry Horse and one Wetherspoon.

Tony Lewis, of the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health, who analysed the findings, claims high concentrations of bacteria and the presence of coliform suggests poor cleaning standards.

'Ice is like any other food. We consume it, we ingest it, it goes into our stomachs, into our guts, and if it's loaded up with the wrong type of bacteria then it can make us ill. So that's why this is a concern,' he said.

'On the basis of the chains that we've looked at, industry needs to do better, making sure that their cleanliness is being well managed.'

Diarrhoea-causing bacteria coliform was detected in the soda water of one Harvester

A branch of Marston's Two for One pub was found to have contaminated ice

Watchdog Live presenter Nikki Fox added: 'These results are really disappointing.

'I don't think most people would expect this type of bacteria to be present in things we're actually consuming – and certainly not in some of the biggest names in the business.

'What we've found suggests that the procedures all these chains have in place aren't always being followed at a local level.'

All five chains responded saying they were with disappointed with the findings.

A spokesperson from Slug and Lettuce argued it has 'an excellent average 4.9/5 star food hygiene rating' but has taken the findings on board and commissioned audits of its branches as a result.

Hungry Horse said customer safety is a 'top priority', adding that nine out of the ten of its branches that were investigated have 'the highest five star rating'.

A spokesperson said it has since called in independent auditors to assess the analysed pubs, as well as undertaking deep cleaning of its ice equipment and soda dispensers, and updating staff training on hygiene.

A Wetherspoon spokesperson said: 'Food safety is of paramount importance within our pubs.

'We have strict standard operating policies in relation to our ice machine cleanliness and more generally, ice handling. Dispense equipment used for our soda also follows these policies and this includes sanitising the nozzles on a daily basis.

'We use a bespoke ice-handling system for transferring our ice. It is designed to avoid any contact between our employee's hands and the ice and operate in a hygienic manner.'

Harvester also described hygiene as being of 'critical importance' and wants to 'reassure our guests they should have no concerns about any health risks'.

A Two for One spokesperson added it is re-auditing its pubs, with refresher training also taking place this week.

Watchdog Live is on BBC One tonight. Almost a year-and-a-half ago, the same programme found traces of faecal bacteria in the ice of High Street coffee shops.

====== 1704 ========

SLIM DOWN BEFORE YOU GET PREGNANT: GPS ISSUE NEW ADVICE TO WOMEN

Women face being told to lose weight before they become pregnant to protect the health of their future children.

GPs will be encouraged to weigh female patients during routine appointments such as when they go in for a prescription for the Pill.

Women who are found to be overweight or obese will be advised to slim to the normal range before they start trying to conceive.

The guidelines from the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists are being issued to doctors amid rising levels of obesity and Type 2 diabetes in adults and children.

Almost half of women attending their first GP appointment during pregnancy are deemed to be too fat, including a shocking 22 per cent who are obese (stock image)

Almost half of women attending their first GP appointment during pregnancy are deemed to be too fat, including a shocking 22 per cent who are obese.

Not only are they at higher risk of life-threatening complications in labour, their babies are much more likely to be obese and develop Type 2 diabetes when they grow up.

Today’s recommendations are the first of their kind to encourage women to lose weight before becoming pregnant.

Previous advice from the NHS and the chief medical officer urged expectant mothers not to ‘eat for two’ during pregnancy, debunking the myth that they needed plenty of extra calories.

The guidelines will be circulated among GPs, doctors and other health professionals alongside a leaflet which they can give to women during appointments.

This stresses that being overweight or obese ‘does increase the risk of complications to both you and your baby’. These risks include blood clots in the legs and lungs (thromboses), gestational diabetes, high blood pressure and the life-threatening condition pre-eclampsia, and mental health problems.

The leaflet also warns of the dangers to the baby and that overweight or obese women are more likely to have a miscarriage, a stillbirth, a premature labour or a need an emergency caesarean.

As well as GPs, pharmacists will be encouraged to offer weight loss advice to women buying ovulation kits, which tell them their most fertile days of the month.

And IVF doctors will be urged to broach the issue with patients when they go for their first appointment prior to starting treatment.

Somewhat controversially, the RCOG wants staff to stress the importance of being a healthy weight to women who have just had a miscarriage, as sensitively as possible.

The College is one of the most influential medical bodies in the country and represents 6,000 doctors specialising in childbirth and women’s health. A spokesman stressed the guidance was not ‘nannying’, but rather aimed at ‘empowering’ women to take charge of their health prior to becoming pregnant.

Women who are found to be overweight or obese will be advised to slim to the normal range before they start trying to conceive (stock image)

Professor Fiona Denison of Edinburgh University, the lead author of the guidelines, said: ‘By making healthy changes to their diet and exercise, women who are obese may limit the amount of extra weight they gain during pregnancy.

‘Losing weight by dieting or taking weight loss drugs is not recommended as this may harm the health of the unborn baby.’

Dr Daghni Rajasingam, consultant obstetrician at Guy’s and Thomas’s NHS trust in central London and spokesman for the RCOG, said: ‘Around one third of births in the UK are unplanned, so any other contact with health professionals before conception also provides good opportunities to raise awareness of the importance of being a healthy weight before pregnancy.’

Figures from NHS Digital show that of pregnant women attending their first GP appointment, 22 per cent were obese, 22 per cent overweight and the remainder normal or underweight. There is no comparable data for the early 1990s but obesity rates across all adult groups have steadily risen since that time.

====== 1705 ========

THE UNITED STATES OF SIDE DISHES: FROM SALAD IN THE WEST TO CORNBREAD IN THE SOUTH

Roast turkey unites America on Thanksgiving, taking the starring role on almost every dining table.

But when it comes to side dishes and desserts, the nation is divided.

That's according to a new survey by FiveThirtyEight, which is stoking some hearty inter-state rivalry hours before the holiday.

The entire West (from Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, New Mexico and beyond) prioritizes salad above everything else - a fact which has sparked fury across the rest of the nation.

A new survey found the entire West prioritizes salad above everything else - a fact which has sparked fury across the rest of the nation - while the Northeast loves squash

The South (identified as Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas and Louisiana) has an above-average penchant for cornbread and cranberry sauce.

The Southeast is slightly more likely than the rest of the country to feature mac and cheese on their Thanksgiving tables.

Meanwhile, the Northeast's obsession with squash is stronger than any other region's obsession with any food - with 56 percent naming it their top side, compared to 18 percent of the rest of the country.

The Midwest is divided in two: the east side, which loves rolls and biscuits, and the west side, which goes for good old green beans and casserole.

When it comes to desserts, pumpkin pie is the national favorite, no questions asked.

However, apple pie tends to feature on tables in the East (from about the Carolinas and up), the South goes for both pecan and sweet potato pie, while the West and Midwest go for cherry pie.

The findings have sparked some excitable debate on Twitter, with people from each region defending their home side dishes (except for Westerners, who are taking issue with the result, based on 1,000 respondents).

If salad truly is the top dish in the West, the region may run into some issues this year in the wake of the CDC's unusually strong warning against romaine lettuce after detecting another E. coli outbreak.

America's favorite salads - Caesar, Cobb, Waldorf - contain romaine. Crab Louise and Wedge Salad are typically made with iceberg, but romaine is a standard substitute.

This year, Westerners are encouraged to turn to kale and arugula for their green fix.

====== 1706 ========

HOW TO ENJOY THANKSGIVING AND AVOID A FOOD COMA

Thanksgiving is a day for family, friends, football - and a great big feast.

The average American will consume 3,000 calories on Thanksgiving, and that's just for dinner, according to trade group Calorie Control Council.

When you add appetizers, drinks and dessert, the final calorie count can be as high as 4,500.

So how can you enjoy your meal without feeling like you're going to pass out from a food coma at the end of the night?

DailyMail.com spoke to two nutritionists about how you can down on calories, sugar, sodium and fat - and prevent yourself from feeling bloated on Black Friday.

The average American will consume as much as 4,500 calories on Thanksgiving Day. We spoke to two nutritionists about how you can slash as much as 1,000 calories from your meal

HAVE A MIX OF LIGHT AND DARK TURKEY MEAT

When it comes to turkey, the debate often comes down to white meat versus dark meat.

According to the Department of Agriculture, one ounce of boneless, skinless turkey breast (white meat) contains approximately 46 calories and one gram of fat.

Meanwhile, an ounce of boneless, skinless thigh (dark meat) contain 50 calories and two grams of fat.

Lara Metz, of Lara Metz Nutrition in New York City, told DailyMail.com that you can - and probably should - eat both.

'You can do a combination meat because dark meat has some nutritional value,' she said. 'But try to incorporate white meat because it contains fewer calories and less fat.'

Beth Warren, of Beth Warren Nutrition in Brooklyn, New York, told DailyMail.com that four to six ounces will give you 'a great source of lean protein for the day'.

Taking off the skin could also save you an extra 30 calories, our nutritionists added.

LOAD YOUR STUFFING WITH VEGETABLES

Many stuffings use white bread, which is low in nutritional value.

'They strip off the outside,' said Tammy Lakatos Shames of the Nutrition Twins in a recent interview with DailyMail.com. 'The outer shell contains all the nutrients and fiber that prevents diabetes and heart disease.

'So you're eating pure carbohydrates and there's no fiber to slow down digestion so it doesn't fill you.'

About one cup of a classic stuffing can run you 355 calories and 17 grams of fat, according to the Calorie Control Council.

For a more nutritional stuffing, Warren recommends using whole grains (she's opting for a whole wheat sourdough bread).

Metz also adds that stuffings are great for sneaking it tons of vegetables and lightening the calorie count.

'Load it with vegetables, add your carrots and your celery and even spinach,' she said. 'Also mushrooms are a great addition because they're bulky and add a lot of flavor.'

MIX GREEK YOGURT INTO YOUR MASHED POTATOES

Potatoes on their own are low in calories and high in vitamin C and potassium - but mashed potatoes can be less than healthy.

The US Department of Agriculture says one cup of homemade mashed potatoes prepared with whole milk or butter contains 240 calories, four grams of protein and nine grams of fat.

If they're made with heavy cream, the calorie count can be as high as 400.

Warren says there are several options that can make mashed potatoes a lighter and healthier dish at your Thanksgiving table.

'Use a light sour cream or a skim milk. You can even add a fat-free Greek yogurt,' she said.

One trick that Metz uses after she's mashed her potatoes is to mix it with mashed cauliflower, which is naturally high in antioxidants, fiber and B-vitamins.

'That way you're using less potato and it's another way to get more vegetables in your meal,' she said.

SWAP SUGAR FOR A DRIZZLE OF MAPLE SYRUP ON YOUR CANDIED POTATOES

Sweet potatoes are excellent sources of vitamin A, vitamin B6, vitamin C, copper and maganese.

One sweet potato contains 112 calories, five grams of sugar and 0.1 grams of fat.

But one cup of homemade candied sweet potatoes contains 216 calories and 17 grams of sugar. So can what you do for a lighter version?

'Sweet potatoes are naturally sweet,' said Metz.

'They don't require cups of sugar. I recommend roasting them and tasting them to see if you need to add any sugar.'

Metz recommends, if you feel your sweet potatoes need some sweetness, adding justa drizzle of maple syrup.

SAUTE YOUR GREEN BEANS IN COCONUT OIL

Green beans, like many vegetables are rich in fiber, potassium, iron and zinc. But casseroles often use canned soup and fried onions, which are high in sodium and fat.

A one-cup serving contains 142 calories and eight grams of fat. [That's a big calories investment] considering one cup of green beans contains 31 calories 0.1 grams of fat.

Metz recommends sautéing the green beans in coconut oil with some shallots.

'It gives the green beans a nice flavor, you're adding fiber to the meal and it adds some color to your plate,' she said.

USE LESS SUGAR AND MORE CINNAMON WHEN SWEETENING YOUR CRANBERRY SAUCE

A majority of cranberry sauce recipes call for a great deal of sugar. A 1/4-cup serving contains 5.5 grams of sugar, and that's before you even get to dessert.

An easy amendment is to use less sugar than the recipe uses for or an alternative sweetener.

'You can citruses like orange to sweeten your cranberry sauce,' said Metz.

'Or you can add cinnamon. Cinnamon contains antioxidants and helps control your sugar levels.

BE AWARE OF YOUR WINE GLASS: DON'T REFILL UNTIL YOU'RE EMPTY AND STICK TO FIVE-OUNCE SERVINGS

Wine is overwhelmingly the drink that most Americans choose to accompany their Thanksgiving dinners.

According to a survey conducted by alcohol e-commerce site Drizly, around 63 percent will be drinking - with half of respondents saying they plan to serve red wine with dinner.

Red wine contains an antioxidant known as resveratrol. Found in grape skin, resveratrol has been found to reduce the risk of cancer and heart disease as well as suppress inflammation and blood clots.

Whether you choose to drink red wine or white wine, Warren says portion control is key.

'Stick to five ounces, people are often pouring more like seven to nine ounces in one glass,' she said.

'I'm a big proponent of drinking a glass of wine at dinner but it's important to stop at one glass and sip it slowly.'

Metz also recommends making sure you have food in your stomach first before getting a glass of wine from your host.

'You have three constant indulgences: wines, desserts and bread,' Metz said. 'On Thanksgiving, a good rule of thumb is to choose two of the three.'

EAT JUST THE FILLING OF THE PUMPKIN AND APPLE PIES

Although both are quintessential Thanksgiving desserts, both pumpkin and apple are bound to quickly add up to calories.

One slice of pumpkin pie (1/8 of a nine-inch pie), will run you about 323 calories, 13 grams of fat and 25 grams of sugar.

One slice of apple pie (1/8 of a nine-inch pie) adds up to about 296 calories 14 grams of fat and 20 grams of sugar.

Both Warren and Metz say that if you're making your own pie, you can use less sugar than the recipe calls for.

'Both apples and pumpkin are naturally sweet so you can embrace their flavor,' said Warren.

'Add agave or maple syrup. Or use a coconut sugar, which can eliminate the need for brown or white sugar.'

Metz said one tip to not indulging is to put your pie on a plate rather than standing up and eating.

'Take a cup of herbal tea so you don't eat too quickly. You can also fill your plate up with fresh fruit or even just eat the filling and leave the crust on your plate.

Making sure you don't gorge can also relive some of the pressure of packing on a few pounds.

...AND HOW TO AVOID FEELING BLOATED ON FRIDAY

DONATE THE LEFTOVERS, DRINK WATER, AND GET BACK TO YOUR NORMAL DIET

A study published in September by Cornell University found that the weight of the average American increased 0.2 percent over the Thanksgiving holiday.

The researchers also determined that about half the weight gain seems to remain until the summer months or beyond.

'Enjoy the day but the second it's over, your mind should switch back to your eating habits from before,' Warren said.

'Start the day off with breakfast and drink a lot of water to flush your system.'

Metz suggests donate leftovers to a food pantry or give them away to guests so you don't indulge for the whole week - and also recommends drinking water.

'Drink lots of water to stay hydrated after eating all that salty food,' she said.

'We often confuse thirst with hunger and then end up overeating. It will also help your skin stay hydrated and get rid of toxins.'

====== 1707 ========

KEEP THESE OFF YOUR THANKSGIVING TABLE! ALL THE FOOD THAT'S BEEN RECALLED THIS MONTH

Food recalls have become more and more common, reaching an all-time high in 2018.

So it's only fitting that the FDA and CDC marked Thanksgiving with a few more just days before Americans settle down to the feast of the year.

Many of the items are standard fare on the holiday dinner table - but they are avoidable.

For those that were considering a Caesar salad, some ready-made cake, or (for whatever reason) something made from ground turkey: listen up.

Just ahead of Thanksgiving, health officials issued warnings about many foods

1. ROMAINE LETTUCE

In an unusually stern warning this Tuesday, the CDC said no romaine can be considered E. coli-free.

Thirty-two people in 11 states have been struck down by lettuce-linked E. coli - 13 of whom are receiving hospital treatment.

Most people infected with E. coli develop diarrhea and vomiting. More severe infections can lead to kidney failure.

The cases in the current outbreak started emerging on October 8.

Thus far, cases have been identified in California, Wisconsin, Illinois, Michigan, Ohio, New York, New Jersey, Maryland, Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Hampshire.

It is not the first outbreak this year: one traced to Yuma, Arizona, resulted in five deaths.

This is a different strain to the Yuma strain; it's the same as one in 2017 from Canada, which sickened dozens of Americans and Canadians.

The CDC still hasn't identified the source but they aren't taking chances: anyone with romaine at home should throw it away - even if you're not sure it's romaine but suspect it might be.

WHAT TO EAT INSTEAD:

Your best bets are kale or arugula. Spinach has had its fair share of problems with E. coli.

2. DUNCAN HINES CAKE MIX

The recall affected Classic White, Classic Butter Golden, Signature Confetti and Classic Yellow varieties of cake mix, per Conagra Brands, Duncan Hines' parent company

Duncan Hines recalled 2.4 million boxes of cake mix because of a link to salmonella in the first week of November.

The recall affects Classic White, Classic Butter Golden, Signature Confetti and Classic Yellow varieties of cake mix, according to Conagra Brands, Duncan Hines' parent company.

The affected boxes have expiration dates between March 7-13, 2019.

Most of the boxes were distributed in the US but some were shipped internationally. Chicago-based Conagra said it is still determining what other countries may be impacted.

It comes at a tough time as all cake mix sales continue to decline, following a years-long trend.

Duncan Hines, founded by a traveling salesman and restaurant guide author in the early 20th century, is America's second most popular cake mix brand behind Betty Crocker.

However, while the cake mix market is still a hefty one, with a value of nearly $4 billion, it has been sinking since the economic crash of 2008.

In the midst of this downturn, the holiday period tends to provide a boost.

WHAT TO EAT INSTEAD:

Pie! Or, if your heart is set on a cake-mix cake: Betty Crocker. Alternatively, make your own cake.

3. TURKEY

There is nothing in the US regulations that requires turkeys be free of salmonella.

As such, it is up to consumers to protect themselves.

Unfortunately, according to health officials, that is a tall order when it comes to turkey.

Last week, experts warned salmonella is 'widespread' in the turkey industry, as regulators issued a recall of more than 91,000lbs of raw turkey.

It is the second year in a row that the industry has been hit with a salmonella scandal.

This time, only ground turkey has been recalled (and likely not many Americans were planning on using ground stuff as their centerpiece).

However, doctors and regulators alike warn that salmonella risk is very high this holiday, so consumers need to be aware.

Don't buy Jennie-O ground turkey from Walmart and Target: 91,000lbs of it was recalled

HOW TO PROTECT YOURSELF:

When it comes to Thanksgiving, many do secondary or alternative meats, but it's not realistic to recommend dropping turkey altogether. It's too ubiquitous.

First, don't buy Jennie-O ground turkey from Walmart and Target.

Second, when cooking your whole turkey, follow these rules:

Don't wash the whole bird (it will just splash bacteria everywhere)

Use a meat thermometer to check that it's cooked through

Cook it at 160F

Keep washing your hands thoroughly throughout the process (for 20 seconds at a time with plenty of soap)

4. GROUND BEEF

Millions of pounds of ground beef meat were pulled from shelves nationwide in late October across the US.

At least 57 were sickened by salmonella in ground beef packaged in Arizona and distributed nationwide.

Scrambling to control the outbreaks, health officials recalled more than 6.5 million pounds of the Arizona-made ground beef.

Unlike listeria, which can take weeks or months to cause an infection, salmonella typically has its effect within 48 hours.

The salmonella outbreak linked to ground beef first came to light in early September.

People were falling sick with salmonella in 16 states across the US throughout August.

Eventually, they found a link: eight patients in distinct hospitals had receipts showing they'd all bought beef produced by JBS Tolleson, Inc.

WHAT TO EAT INSTEAD:

If you're making a beef-based casserole or stew, use other brands of beef. Alternatively, try other meats, like chicken or lamb, or try slow-cooking brisket.

5. DELI MEAT

One death and three illnesses were caused by listeria in late October, traced back to ready-to-eat deli ham produced in North Carolina and shipped across the East Coast.

The deli meat was sold in eight-pound 'loaves' produced by Johnston County Hams Inc.

They were plastic wrapped and shipped from the factory in Smithfield, North Carolina, to elsewhere in the state as well as New York, Maryland, Virginia and South Carolina between April and October.

The four cases tied to Johnston's deli meat (one death and three illnesses) were reported between July 8 and August 11.

But officials from the USDA FSIS (United States Department of Agriculture's Food Safety and Inspection Service) say their investigation is still ongoing and urge customers to watch out for the products, which may still be in stores.

Listeria is one of the most common bacterium that causes food poisoning in America, but contrary to other bacterium, its effects can take a while to take hold.

It causes listeriosis, which is characterized by diarrhea and fever, within one to four weeks of infection, though the USDA FSIS says some people can take up to 70 days to show symptoms.

The meat in question was sold under various different names: Johnston County Hams Inc. Country Style Fully Cooked Boneless Deli Ham, Goodnight Brothers Country Ham Boneless Fully Cooked, and Padow's Hams & Deli, Inc. Fully Cooked Country Ham Boneless Glazed with Brown Sugar.

WHAT TO EAT INSTEAD:

Try a cheese plate.

====== 1708 ========

HOW TO CONQUER FEAR: IMAGINING YOUR PHOBIA REALLY CAN BANISH IT, STUDY FINDS

Some say that fears are all in our heads - and the key to conquering them may be too, a new study suggests.

Psychologists sometimes use cues for traumatic experiences to help patients overcome their fears related to past pains without having to relive those moments.

But for some, even these audio, visual or other sensory triggers can be too much to handle.

In these cases, doctors have long coached their patients to simply imagine these cues, and then guided them through a mental reprogramming process to make their responses to triggers more manageable.

Now, researchers at Mount Sinai have shown that the imagination is every bit as powerful a tool as these real cues by recording the brain activities and changes patients go through while re-experiencing or re-imagining triggers.

Imagining trauma triggers can make your brain work the same way re-living them does, but without the pain - and doing so lets you reprogram your brain to be less afraid

Exposure therapies are among the most trusted methods to help people overcome fears, phobias anxiety and traumas.

But trust is the key word. The key to exposure therapy is for a therapist to create an environment that feels safe and slowly introduce the fear-inducing cues.

Even with the guidance of a professional, these cues can still trigger deeply unpleasant - even additionally traumatizing - experiences, however.

If a therapist fears this might be the case, they can use 'imaginal exposure,' in which they ask a patient to recall and talk through their bad experiences or the sensory triggers for them.

All forms of exposure therapy have proven effective treatments and re-training methods for patients, though some studies have suggested that in vivo exposure - in other words, live, direct interaction with the trigger for or source of a fear - may have stronger and more lasting effects.

The new Mount Sinai study, however, suggests otherwise.

Led by Dr Daniella Schiller, a Mount Sinai neuroscientist and psychiatrist, the researchers tested how well 'threat extinction' worked for patients whose minds were re-trained with real versus imagined cues.

'We focus a lot on the effect of external stimuli on behavior and how the brain reacts, but a lot of these processes are occuring in between' - in the brain - 'and we don't have access to them,' says Dr Schiller.

'One is imagination. We know that, in therapy, these are pretty powerful tools, so we're trying to take a stab at [revealing] those subjective internal processes.'

Threat extinction is a process of teaching people that they can experience a cue that has become associated with something fearful that that cue does not necessarily precede a negative event.

In order to experiment with deprogramming a fear response, the researchers first had to create one - albeit, a minimal one.

So, they played a particular tone and then gave the study participants a minor electrical shock.

This was a quick way of conditioning a fear response in the minds of these subjects every time they heard that sound play.

Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), the team was able to watch brain activity that translated roughly to 'that means pain is coming.'

Then, the participants were divided into three groups.

One third heard the same tone that had so recently signaled that a painful shock was coming again, but didn't get the the shock.

The second group was told to use their imaginations to 'replay' the tone in their own minds, while a third group was told to imagine a sound from nature, like birds singing or flowing water, as a way to simulate auditory imagination itself, but not the imagination of the particular trigger (acting as the control group).

For the group that heard the shock-signal again, their brains at first retraced the same old steps through the neural pathways that set in motion a fear response, telling their bodies to prepare for the pain.

The sound kept playing, and the shock kept not coming.

The researchers watched as the pattern of brain signals shifted, instead traveling through the 'fear suppression network.'

Participants then got another series of four shocks, without any warning.

Then, the sound was played again, but without the shock.

It is a complicated way to test if the association between sound and shock had stuck or been broken, but the results were clear.

Brain scans showed that the people who just imagined anything at all in place of the fear tone were not re-conditioned, and, at least neurologically speaking, kept on experiencing both the pain of the shock itself and the fear from the tone that signaled it.

But in the brains of the people who had been given exposure therapy with the warning tone, the tone might briefly activate the same fear circuits, but then their fear response was significantly diminished.

And while the brain regions involved weren't identical, the same was true for those who did exposure therapy by just imagining the warning sound.

In both cases, the 'central hub' for fear suppression was in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, according to Dr Schiller.

We already knew this part of the brain plays a critical role in this extinction learning process, and 'for therapy in anxiety patients we see [low] function in that area,' she says.

'And we saw that this central hub in the network was also active in imageined extinction,' or imaginal exposure therapy.

Using either form, 'it doesn't erase or completely eliminate the association' between a trigger and the experience of fear, Dr Schiller says.

'But it is under better control.'

She and her team also gained a more nuanced understanding of how to optimize exposure therapy, especially through imagination. They saw that those who generally used their imaginations weren't activating the same regions, and they weren't extinguising their fear signals either.

'So it's not just any type of relaxation [that helps], but specific imagery that works,' teo help eliminate fears, Dr Schiller said.

'This expands our toolbox so we can use real exposure or imagined exposure and they could be a combination therapy or a complementary treatment with a drug.'

====== 1709 ========

HUSBAND RAISES £30,000 FOR WIFE, 31, WITH TERMINAL LUNG CANCER IN JUST TWO DAYS

A father has told how his children 'aren't ready to lose their mummy' who is battling terminal lung cancer.

Leanne Barrett, 31, was diagnosed with stage four lung cancer in October while she was pregnant with the couple's second child.

Her and her husband Jamie Barrett, from Rollestone, Wiltshire, decided against an abortion despite it being recommended by doctors.

Medics were then forced to deliver the baby 11 weeks early when Mrs Barrett's condition deteriorated. Beau Hudson Barrett was born via C-section on November 8, weighing just 2lb 13oz, and remains in intensive care.

Since her son's arrival, Mrs Barrett's cancer has rapidly spread to her liver, bones and brain.

Mr Barrett told MailOnline: 'It’s been torture. There are so many emotions. It shouldn’t be happening at this time of your life, when you’re bringing a new child into the world.'

Although Mrs Barrett is receiving NHS treatment, her husband smashed fundraising targets - reaching more than £30,000 in just two days - to pay for alternative therapies that may help prolong her life.

Leanne Barrett, 31, was diagnosed with stage four lung cancer while pregnant with her son, Beau Hudson Barrett (both pictured). He was born via C-section 11 weeks early

Beau arrived weighing just 2lb 13oz and is still recovering in intensive care

Her husband, Jamie Barrett, 35, (pictured with their four-year-old daughter India-Lily) worries their children will have to grow up without their mother and is raising money towards alternative therapies that he hopes will prolong her life while she has NHS treatment

Mr Barrett said: 'As the cancer has been missed for so long, we have been told that Mrs Barrett's condition is now terminal. Doctors have advised that it can be treated, but it can't be cured.'

'We've got to fight this and that's what we're going to do.

'I'm not ready to lose my wife and my kids aren't ready to lose their mummy.'

Mrs Barrett was diagnosed after a growth 'the size of a pea' developed into a 5cm mass on her left lung.

The couple, who have been together for ten years and have a four-year-old daughter called India-Lily, were given the option of an abortion so they could focus on Mrs Barrett's health.

However, they decided to have their baby boy after losing his unborn twin before the 12-week scan.

Doctors offered a variety of biopsy options to try to get to the bottom of what caused her cancer, but Mrs Barrett turned them down after being warned they could threaten her pregnancy.

Mrs Barrett was then forced to endure a series of agonising investigative procedures, including chest drains and blood thinning injections, with minimal pain relief to minimise the effect on her unborn baby.

As she got more ill, doctors concluded the growth hormones caused by Mrs Barrett's pregnancy were likely making her not respond to treatment. They therefore decided to deliver Beau prematurely.

Mr Barrett told MailOnline: 'He's doing well, he's fighting and he's improved day-by-day.'

'We go to see our baby every day. She [Mrs Barrett] held him last week skin-to-skin for the first time, six days after he was born.

'It was emotional and a big relief for everyone seeing that moment.'

Mr Barrett added he is trying to shield the tragic events from his daughter.

'She knows her mummy's been poorly but she thinks that it's just to do with the pregnancy', he said.

Speaking of his wife, he added: 'What she'd love more than anything else in this world is to see her babies grow up and to be able to say that she's beating cancer.'

Mr and Mrs Barrett, from Wiltshire, have been together for ten years and married in 2016

Mrs Barrett started a new treatment last Thursday, called osimertinib, which will 'keep her comfortable' and hopefully slow the growth of the disease.

However, Mr Barrett wants to consider all options, including homeopathic remedies and alternative therapies, which he is fundraising towards.

'It was something that I considered long and hard', he said.

'It’s for additional things to help alongside the treatment. Some people recommend certain diets or retreats in Mexico or Germany.

'We hope for someone to get in touch and say "this is going to prolong your wife’s life".'

'From a personal point of view, I didn’t want to have any regrets. I didn’t want to think I could have done more after the worst case scenario.

'We both had hard-working jobs and we lived a comfortable life, but now we're not working and we need that extra treatment and to spread awareness of her story.'

Mrs Barrett developed what looked like a 'pimple' on her nose shortly after she got married in 2016.

It continued to grow until it was removed and tested. Doctors said it was likely to be a symptom of an auto-immune disease called sarcoidosis.

Sarcoidosis is a rare condition that causes small lumps, called granulomas, to develop. It can effect any organ in the body, however it usually begins in the lungs, skin, or lymph nodes.

Following this, chest scans showed Mrs Barrett had a mass of enlarged lymph nodes in her chest, which later investigation showed were benign.

But in July 2017, Mrs Barrett began to complain of chest pains and trouble breathing,which is when doctors found a 5cm mass on her lung.

Mrs Barrett decided to visit a specialist lung doctor at the Nuffield Health Centre in Derby in August. In October, she was diagnosed with stage four lung cancer 'by chance'.

Mr Barrett said: 'I know not everyone has the option of private healthcare but I dread to think where we would be now without having had that second opinion.

'The enlarged lymph nodes in the centre of her chest and the presumption that Leanne had...Sarcoidosis, was actually a huge red herring', he said.

Mrs Barrett had a daughter, India-Lily in 2014. Her husband said: 'What she'd love more than anything else in this world is to see her babies grow up and to be able to say that she's beating cancer'

Mrs Barrett, pictured with her daughter, had always been very active, enjoying running, swimming and gym classes, and had never smoked

Mr Barrett said his wife had always been very active, enjoying running, swimming and gym classes, and had never smoked.

He said: 'You always think it's never going to happen to you, but no-one should be naive enough to think that.'

Mr Barrett, who is the captain of Gresley FC, hoped to get the page shared by some high profile names, but did not expect the overwhelming response they got.

In less than 24 hours, they had smashed through their initial £15,000 target and by Tuesday they were heading rapidly towards a revised target of £50,000, with more than 1,000 people having contributed.

'We can't thank people enough,' said Mr Barrett. 'People have been incredible. There's a lot of people supporting us and everyone's been so generous.'

'Yes we want to prolong her life but ultimately we want to defy the odds, we're praying for her every day and we're remaining positive that she can and will beat this', he said.

'I'd just say to everyone go and get checked out and be persistent, always get a second opinion.'

Anyone hoping to donate can do so on the JustGiving page

====== 1710 ========

NHS TO SPEND £3.5BN ON MOBILE MEDICAL TEAMS TO HELP KEEP ELDERLY PATIENTS OUT OF HOSPITAL

Crack medical teams will lead a multi-billion pound revolution in community care aimed at keeping the elderly out of hospital and in their own homes.

Theresa May will announce tomorrow that rapid response teams of GPs and pharmacists will be sent into care homes, while doctors, nurses and physiotherapists will be put on standby to give the support needed to help pensioners.

The Prime Minister will say the £3.5billion investment in community health – out of £20billion promised for the NHS – will cut needless hospital admissions and enable patients to return home sooner. And it will help the NHS deal with bed-blocking, which has helped to push waiting times to record levels.

Theresa May will announce that rapid response teams of GPs and pharmacists will be sent into care homes, while doctors, nurses and physiotherapists will be put on standby to give the support needed to help pensioners.

Mrs May will claim the services can be funded as Britain will no longer be sending ‘vast sums’ of money to Brussels and will have more money for ‘domestic priorities like our NHS’.

No 10 said that, at present, as many as a third of people in hospital stay longer than they need to often because they cannot get treatment close to home. The new rapid response teams will provide 24/7 urgent care. They will be sent in to help people who have had a fall or have suffered a deterioration in an existing condition like lung disease.

Other support, such as diabetes screening, movement sessions for Parkinson’s sufferers and podiatry, will increasingly take place in the community rather than in hospital.

And to help elderly people remain at their care homes, pharmacists will visit to ensure that people are taking the drugs they need.

GPs will also be on hand to offer out-of-hours emergency care.

Evidence suggests that more than a third of hospital admissions from care homes are avoidable.

Mrs May will say: ‘Too often, people end up in hospital not because it’s the best place to meet their needs but because the support that would allow them to be treated or recover in their own home just isn’t available. Many of us might assume that hospital is the safest place to be – but, in reality, many patients would be much better off being cared for in the community. And the longer a patient stays in hospital, the more it costs the NHS and the more pressure is put on its hardworking staff. This needs to change.’

The scheme, which will be contained in next month’s long-awaited Long Term Plan for the NHS, is designed to help hospitals cope with the ageing population and the rise of more complex conditions.

Evidence shows that, for older people, ten days in a hospital bed leads to the equivalent of ten years of muscle ageing.

Dr Richard Vautrey, of the British Medical Association’s GP committee, said: ‘Expanding the healthcare team is essential to enable more support to be offered to people in nursing homes, as is breaking down the barriers between care in the community and hospitals so, in principle, these are both positive pledges that we would want to work with the government and NHS England on developing further.’

Professor Helen Stokes-Lampard, of the Royal College of GPs, said: ‘Any investment in patient care in the community is welcome and it’s essential that general practice, specifically, is at the heart of these plans and a key recipient of this new funding.

‘The Prime Minister’s announcement demonstrates recognition at the highest levels that a strong general practice service is central to the long-term sustainability of the NHS and patient care.’

====== 1711 ========

EVERY SCHOOL SHOULD HAVE MENTAL HEALTH OFFICERS TO TACKLE CHILD WELFARE CRISIS, INSISTS WATCHDOG

Every school should have its own NHS counsellor for pupils to tackle a crisis in mental welfare, England’s Children’s Commissioner says.

Anne Longfield said children ‘do not want a formal or medicalised child and adolescent mental health services’ and would prefer to see someone in schools.

Rising numbers of children are seeking mental health treatment, with experts partly blaming this on cyberbullying through social media.

Every school should have its own NHS counsellor for pupils to tackle a crisis in mental welfare, England’s Children’s Commissioner Anne Longfield says. Stock picture of a boy looking upset in his bedroom which was used in an online cyber bullying campaign

‘Most want to be able to access support through their school,’ said Mrs Longfield. ‘Others are keen on online support. The most vulnerable children need services to come to them.

‘I want to see the Government and NHS England dramatically increasing the level of ambition for children’s mental health services.

‘There also needs to be a focus on early help. An NHS-funded counsellor in every school, providing a service that is accessible and child-friendly, would be transformative.’

Her report found only a ‘small fraction’ of those who need mental health support were able to access services last year. Of more than 338,000 children referred to child and adolescent mental health services – CAMHS – last year, only 31 per cent received treatment within a year.

Another 37 per cent were not accepted into treatment or discharged after an assessment, and a further 32 per cent were still on waiting lists at the end of the year. While services overall have improved, more must be done, Mrs Longfield said.

The report sets out how children’s mental health services need an additional £1.7billion a year. Mrs Longfield said that providing help when problems emerge would reap benefits as youngsters enter adulthood, help keep children in school and potentially steer them away from risks such as gangs.

The report praises progress in some services, with nearly 80 per cent of children starting treatment for eating disorders being seen within four weeks. But it found the rate of improvement ‘highly variable’ and noted capacity is not keeping pace with demand.

Less than 3 per cent of children in England accessed CAMHS last year, a small fraction of those who need help.

Figures released later today are expected to show a rise in the number of children with mental health needs.

The Children’s Commissioner report adds that, of the children who actually enter treatment, only half did so within six weeks. Data released earlier this week showed nine in ten of adults seeking talking therapy for anxiety and depression were seen within this time frame.

As well as calls for additional money, Mrs Longfield added that there should be a large expansion of specialist treatment services for children. ‘By 2023, the NHS should be in a position to ensure no child who needs help is turned away,’ she said.

Emma Thomas, of charity YoungMinds, said it was dealing with daily calls from parents whose children have been waiting for mental health support, or been refused because thresholds for treatment are so high.

She added: ‘In some cases children start to self-harm, become suicidal or drop out of school while waiting.’

NHS England said: ‘As this report recognises, children and young people’s mental health services are improving, including rapid service expansion after decades of under-provision.’

====== 1712 ========

HOCKEY FAN, 30, FOUND LIFE-SAVING KIDNEY DONOR AFTER HOLDING UP A SIGN AT A GAME

There aren't many things more important to 30-year-old Kelly Sowatsky than her favorite hockey team, the Pittsburgh Penguins.

But three things give the Penguins some competition: Kelly's fiance, her music and her desperate search for a kidney to save her life.

Three years ago, on Christmas, an infection turned to a blood infection, and the blood infection became kidney failure.

Kelly's health has been deteriorating ever since. None of her family members were matches, and even with dialysis, her own kidneys weren't going to last much longer.

Desperate, she made a highlighter-yellow sign written in black block-letters (to match her Penguins jersey) to a Pittsburgh hockey game in March.

Kelly Sowatsky wrote her request for a new kidney on a right yellow poster board during a Pittsburgh Penguins game - and found one, from a fellow fan who saw the sign on social media

The sign got the attention of the Penguins's social media manager, who tweeted a picture of Kelly and her message: 'Callling all hockey fans! I need a kidney! Kidney! Kidney! Gratefully yours, Kelly.'

Within minutes, she was overwhelmed with texts, calls and messages. Within two days, she had found her donor, hundreds of miles away: Thirty-five-year-old Jeff Lynd.

At 30, Kelly has lived an impressively full life, working as a musician for several years in Nashville before moving back to Pennsylvania to teach special needs children.

But when her kidneys began to fail, she was nowhere near ready to give up her momentum to accommodate endless trips to the hospital for dialysis.

Her kidney failure came seemingly out of nowhere.

On Christmas in 2015, Kelly started to feel generally ill, and it wasn't long before she was in the hospital with sepsis.

'It's unclear what led to it, but we think it may have been a urinary tract infection that we didn't know I had, which turned into sepsis, in a matter of hours, really,' Kelly told Daily Mail Online.

Jeff Lynd, 35, saw Kelly's sign after his favorite team shared it to social media, and offered up his own 'slightly used' organ to help her

Jeff (right) was a match, and a few months later, Kelly got his kidney

First the sepsis struck her lungs, and Kelly spent 12 days in the hospital, hooked up to a ventilator to breath for her.

About as soon as she seemed to be recovering, Kelly developed excruciating back pain.

Back at the hospital, doctors confirmed her kidneys 'were riddled with infection.'

The sepsis had moved to her kidneys and they were failing - fast.

Within a year, they were functioning at just 50 percent. Then, over just a couple of months, her kidney function plummeted to 20 percent.

Last week, her kidney function was at just seven percent.

Up until now, she had managed to avoid dialysis clean the sediments out of her blood that her kidneys were no longer able to flush.

'My doctors said that the fact that I'm a small and don't have a whole lot of muscle mass is probably why I was able to stave off dialysis as long as I did,' she said.

That time was over. Kelly would need dialysis to keep her alive, her doctors insisted.

'Dialysis has it's own set of challenges, though, aside from just suffering from chronic kidney disease,' she said.

Now, Kelly looks forward to having energy to enjoy her wedding to her fiance, Tyler Hart (left) in May

She would have to make several trips a week to the hospital to have dialysis, wouldn't be able to bring her beloved pets with her, and would disrupt her work life.

'Dialysis didn't work for my lifestyle,' Kelly said.

'I want to skip that altogether.'

The only other option for Kelly was a transplant.

But the only match in her family was her mother - who is also Kelly's caretaker.

'My doctors highly recommended that she not be the donor,' she said.

So that left the transplant list, where Kelly's name might sit for four to six years before it was her turn and she found a match.

Kelly had one more idea.

An avid hockey fan, she realized that at a game, she could cast a wide net for donors who might feel like kindred spirits.

So, she hand-lettered her highlighter-yellow sign asking for a kidney.

She and her fiance, Tyler Hart, went to the March 31 Penguins game, armed with their last hope for Kelly's health.

'I had a feeling that in the right venue, at the right time and place, this would work,' Kelly said.

Despite her past life as a performer, Kelly felt sheepish about the sign at first. She held it at her knees for the early part of the game.

'But I had to make myself vulnerable,' she said.

With the support of he family - and her new friend, Jeff - Kelly is well on her way to recovery and hopes to be back at Penguin's games soon

'I thought, "it's now or never." I held it up high, and all of a sudden there was all this attention on me.'

The picture of Kelly that the Penguin's social media manager tweeted reached thousands of eyes.

But really only the right person needed to see it.

That person was Jeff Lynd, a Pittsburgh native living six-and-a-half hours away in Delaware.

'The Twitter sign caught his eye, and he just really wanted to do something about it,' Kelly explained.

'He said he just felt like he was going to be the guy, and here we are a couple months later, and he is the guy.'

On Tuesday, November 6, Kelly received Jeff's kidney.

She'd recovering well, and 'getting more and more energy every day.'

Along with a new kidney, Kelly has gained a new friends in Jeff.

'We have an incredibly great relationships, we've become kind of like brother and sister and talk almost every single day.'

In fact, Jeff and his wife spent Wednesday night at a Penguin's game with Kelly's fiance, Tyler.

Kelly wanted to go to the game, but her doctors said two weeks out from a transplant is a little too soon for her to be out and about while on immunosuppressants.

But she's looking forward to her wedding (in May) and 'can't wait to get back to a game.'

====== 1713 ========

LETTUCE PRAY! CDC DECLARES ANOTHER E. COLI OUTBREAK LINKED TO ROMAINE LETTUCE

No romaine lettuce can be considered safe to eat in America, the CDC warned today.

There is another E. coli outbreak in the US, and the agency has traced it back - yet again - to the usual suspect: the crunchy and leafy green served across the country.

This time, 32 people in 11 states have been struck down by lettuce-linked E. coli - 13 of whom are receiving hospital treatment.

In all previous outbreaks this year - which resulted in five deaths - the agency has been careful with its wording, saying officials couldn't be sure which romaine we should be concerned about.

But now, they aren't taking chances: the CDC said anyone with romaine at home should throw it away - even if you're not sure it's romaine but suspect it might be.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

This time, 32 people in 11 states have been struck down by lettuce-linked E. coli - 13 of whom are receiving hospital treatment. The CDC told anyone with romaine at home to throw it away

'Do not eat any romaine lettuce, including whole heads and hearts, chopped, organic and salad mixes with romaine until we learn more,' the agency said on Tuesday afternoon.

'If you don’t know if it’s romaine or can’t confirm the source, don’t eat it.'

Most people infected with E. coli develop diarrhea and vomiting. More severe infections can lead to kidney failure.

The cases in the current outbreak started emerging on October 8.

Thus far, cases have been identified in California, Wisconsin, Illinois, Michigan, Ohio, New York, New Jersey, Maryland, Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Hampshire.

Another 18 people have been sickened by romaine lettuce in the same time period in Ontario and Quebec in Canada.

This strain - E. coli O157:H7 - is the same as the one which caused an outbreak last year from romaine and unspecified leafy greens grown in Canada.

It is not the same strain as the one from Yuma, Arizona, which sickened dozens earlier this year.

Beyond warning consumers, the agency has told all retailers and restaurants to stop serving and selling romaine until they learn more about the outbreak.

'This investigation is ongoing and the advice will be updated as more information is available.'

Experts say the warning could have disastrous consequences for all agriculture companies that deal with salad - whether they produce romaine or not.

Michael Droke, a partner at the international law firm Dorsey & Whitney devoted to the areas of agriculture and cooperative law, told DailyMail.com: 'A [warning] of this magnitude especially during the holiday week will impact not only romaine, but other leafy green vegetables such as spinach.

'Retailers will be pulling romaine and possibly all other lettuce/leafy greens from their shelves (a process called quarantining) until the source is found.'

====== 1714 ========

TIDY TEENAGERS LIVE LONGER, STUDY FINDS

Tidy teenagers live longer, research suggests.

In a study of more than 26,000 secondary-school students spanning 48 years, scientists discovered orderly adolescents who are mature, calm and empathetic are more likely to live into their 60s.

Immaturity and impulsiveness as a teenager may set bad 'health habits' that 'wear and tear' on a person's immune system and heart over time, according to the US researchers.

Teenagers who are tidy and mature are more likely to live into their 60s, study finds (stock)

Scientists from the University of Rochester, New York, analysed 26,845 secondary-school students who were part of the high-school research group Project Talent.

This was a nationwide survey that was made up of five per cent of all schools in the US.

THE SECRET TO A LONG LIFE? BE KIND AND TIDY In 1960, these students completed a survey that assessed whether they possessed personality traits that have been described as 'important for life success'. These were: Calmness Sensitivity to the feelings of others Impulsiveness Leadership Energetic disposition Tidiness Sociability Cultural refinement Maturity The participants were then followed until 2009, by which time 13 per cent were registered to have died on the National Death Index. After taking into account factors such as the students' age, parental education and family income, the results suggested that teenagers who are calm, tidy, empathetic, cultured and mature are more likely to live into old age. And those who are highly impulsive are more at risk of an early death.

In 1960, these students completed a survey that assessed whether they possessed personality traits that have been described as 'important for life success'. They were calmness, sensitivity to the feelings of others, impulsiveness, leadership, energetic disposition, tidiness, sociability,, cultural refinement and maturity.

The participants were then followed until 2009, by which time 13 per cent were registered to have died on the National Death Index.

After taking into account factors such as the students' age, parental education and family income, the results suggested that teenagers who are calm, tidy, empathetic, cultured and mature are more likely to live into old age.

And those who are highly impulsive are more at risk of an early death.

The researchers were surprised by their findings because they expected secondary school to be 'a time of personality development and malleability', with teenage traits then fading with age.

But, they add, school may signal the onset of 'protective' traits that then strengthen over the years.

As well as directly affecting a teenager's health in later life, untidy traits may also lead to poor educational achievements, low income and even divorce, according to the researchers.

All of the above have been associated with poor health, with divorcees in particular being less likely to take care of themselves without a spouse to 'nag' them.

Previous research has investigated how personality traits in mid-life influence mortality, however, this is the first study to look at the impact of a teenager's temperament on their later risk of an early death.

The researchers stress, however, further trials are required to determine exactly how personality traits in adolescence impact a person's mortality.

They also note the cause of death was not taken into account, which may provide further insight into how personality is linked to death.

'Personality change over the life course is a complex issue, with considerable individual variability,' they concluded in the Journal of Epidemiology & Community Health.

====== 1715 ========

COLLEGE STUDENT, 18, DIES OF ADENOVIRUS DAYS BEFORE THANKSGIVING

A freshman college student at University of Maryland has died of adenovirus, the virus that has killed 11 immunocompromised children at one New Jersey care facility.

Olivia Paregol, 18, suffered from Crohn's disease and was diagnosed with pneumonia on November 9.

She developed the respiratory infection as a complication of a particularly severe strain of adenovirus, a common illness from which most people recover on their own, but that can prove deadly for those with weakened immune systems.

After nearly a week fighting for her life in an intensive care unit, Olivia died on Sunday.

Though she'd been seriously ill, Olivia was not tested for adenovirus until another student was diagnosed with the virus, and her father, Ian, told WJLA that the school did not announce cases to families or the student body.

As her family and the University of Maryland grieve the loss of the young woman, they warn that five others have been diagnosed with adenovirus, and that illnesses should be taken seriously.

Olivia Paregol, 18, contracted adenovirus while attending University of Maryland and undergoing treatment for Crohn's disease. The college freshman died of the virus on Sunday

Adenovirus comes in more than 100 different strains.

Like most viruses, some types can infect humans, while others cannot, some will cause nothing more than a common cold, while others can be pernicious.

The worst strains of a respiratory adenovirus infection can masquerade as the flu and its symptoms - sore throat runny nose, fatigue, fever, chest congestion and cough - may be every it as miserable.

But even then, the illness is rarely life-threatening. It typically only endangers very young children and the elderly.

A compromised immune system, however, can change everything.

Olivia was thriving in her first year at University of Maryland, but all the while she was fighting Crohn's disease.

Crohn's is an autoimmune disease that causes the body to make misguided attacks on its own healthy bacteria and tissues. The result is chronic inflammation of the digestive tract.

The condition cannot be cured, but may be managed with steroids or drugs to suppress the immune system.

It is unclear if Olivia was receiving either of these treatments, though ABC reported that she was being treated for Crohn's.

The University of Maryland (pictured) announced Tuesday that five other adenovirus cases have been diagnosed. Olivia's father alleges the school knew Olivia's diagnosis before she did

Courtesy of WJLA

She apparently contracted adenovirus while being treated, and her father told WJLA that his daughter had had continuous problems with mold in her dorm room.

'She definitely appeared to be getting sicker and sicker,' Ian told WJLA.

In its Tuesday announcement of an adenovirus death to the University of Maryland community, the school said it was first aware of an 'isolated case' of the viral infection, though it isn't clear if that referred to Olivia.

At least one of the infections was discovered to be from strain 7 of the virus, one of the most savage and dangerous forms.

University of Maryland said it had been 'closely monitoring' the school for infections and coordinating with area health systems and officials.

But Ian did not feel adequately in the loop about the outbreak or his daughter's condition.

'I was told there were two students with the virus when I called to figure out what my daughter had, which means they knew it before my daughter,' he said.

'It was the worst nightmare that a family or certainly a parent can have to endure.'

====== 1716 ========

NUMBER OF YOUNG BRITONS SUFFERING FROM DIABETES SUFFERERS IS 'TEN TIMES HIGHER THAN EXPECTED'

The true scale of the diabetes crisis in children and young people is up to ten times higher than previously thought, say experts.

The charity Diabetes UK analysed an audit of GPs and found that nearly 7,000 under-25s received treatment for the condition in England and Wales in 2016/17.

This is almost ten times more than the 715 under-25s receiving treatment in specialist diabetes clinics, as reported in August.

The number of children with diabetes is ten times higher than was previously thought

Some 7,000 youngsters have been treated for Type 2 diabetes - commonly linked to obesity

Today’s figures give the fullest picture to date because they combine the latest national audit of the number of children attending specialist diabetes clinics and the National Diabetes Audit, covering 95 per cent of GP practices.

They show that in 2016/17, a total of 6,836 people under the age of 25 were being treated for Type 2 diabetes. This included at least 11 aged nine and under, 196 aged ten to 14, 1,246 between 15 and 19 and a further 5,383 aged between 20 and 24.

Doctors say rising obesity is to blame for the surge in cases, which until 20 years ago had only ever been seen in adults.

Professor Russell Viner, president of the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health, said the figures showed why urgent action was needed. Type 2 diabetes is a lifelong condition where the pancreas doesn’t make enough insulin or where the insulin the pancreas has made doesn’t work properly. It is generally associated with factors including poor diet and a sedentary lifestyle.

With 34 per cent of children in England overweight or obese by the time they leave primary school, Diabetes UK warned that thousands more could be diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes in the next few years.

It is much more aggressive in children and young people than in adults and can lead to heart disease, kidney damage and blindness.

Professor Viner said children who are at risk can still be helped through diet and exercise. He added: ‘For many children, the development of Type 2 diabetes can be prevented with lifestyle changes but this isn’t easy – they need support.’

Diabetes UK has called for better specialist support for youngsters with the condition to help manage their illness and reduce their risk of serious complications.

The Department of Health and Social Care said: ‘We are committed to halving child obesity by 2030 and will be launching consultations to restrict promotions in shops for sugary and fatty foods, as well as a 9pm watershed ban on advertising.

‘The upcoming NHS long-term plan will have prevention at its core and build on our existing work to keep people healthy and well.’

====== 1717 ========

EAT YOUR 5-A-DAY FOR A BETTER MEMORY (IF YOU'RE A MAN)

Middle aged men should drink orange juice and eat plenty of leafy greens and berries to help prevent memory loss, suggests a new study.

Researchers who conducted the 20-year study found that feasting on leafy greens, dark orange and red vegetables as well as berry fruits appeared to lower the risk of memory loss over time in men.

Interestingly, they found the same for orange juice, which has fallen out of favor in nutrition circles for its lack of fiber and high sugar content.

The study, published online by the journal Neurology, involved 27,842 men with an average age of 51 who were all health professionals.

More research is needed to see if the same is true for women, but the team at Harvard said they feel their findings show dietary tweaks have a profound impact on brain health.

The study, published online by the journal Neurology, involved 27,842 men with an average age of 51 who were all health professionals

The participants filled out questionnaires about how many servings of fruit, vegetables and other foods they had each day at the beginning of the study and then every four years for 20 years.

A serving of fruit is considered one cup of fruit - equivalent to a banana or a small apple or a half-cup of fruit juice. A serving of vegetables is considered one cup of raw vegetables or two cups of leafy greens.

Study author Changzheng Yuan, a doctoral student at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, said: 'One of the most important factors in this study is that we were able to research and track such a large group of men over a 20-year period of time, allowing for very telling results.

'Our studies provide further evidence dietary choices can be important to maintain your brain health.'

Participants also took subjective tests of their thinking and memory skills at least four years before the end of the study, when they were an average age of 73.

The test is designed to detect changes that people can notice in how well they are remembering things before those changes would be detected by objective cognitive tests.

Changes in memory reported by the participants would be considered precursors to mild cognitive impairment.

The six questions included 'Do you have more trouble than usual remembering a short list of items, such as a shopping list?' and 'Do you have more trouble than usual following a group conversation or a plot in a TV program due to your memory?'

More than half the men in the study (55 percent) had good thinking and memory skills, 38 percent had moderate skills, and seven per cent had poor thinking and memory skills.

The participants were divided into five groups based on their fruit and veg consumption.

For vegetables, the highest group ate about six servings per day, compared to about two servings for the lowest group.

For fruits, the top group ate about three servings per day, compared to half a serving for the bottom group.

The men who ate the most vegetables were 34 percent less likely to develop poor thinking skills than the men who consumed the least amount of vegetables.

A total of 6.6 percent of men in the top group developed poor cognitive function, compared to 7.9 percent of men in the bottom group.

The men who drank orange juice every day were 47 percent less likely to develop poor thinking skills than the men who drank less than one serving per month.

The research team said that the association was mainly observed for regular consumption of orange juice among the oldest men.

A total of 6.9 percent of men who drank orange juice every day developed poor cognitive function, compared to 8.4 percent of men who drank orange juice less than once a month.

Yuan said the men who ate the most fruit each day were less likely to develop poor thinking skills, but that association was weakened after researchers adjusted for other dietary factors that could affect the results, such as consumption of vegetables, fruit juice, refined grains, legumes and dairy products.

The researchers also found that people who ate larger amounts of fruits and veg 20 years earlier were less likely to develop thinking and memory problems - whether or not they kept eating larger amounts of fruits and veg about six years before the memory test.

Yuan added: 'The study does not show that eating fruits and vegetables and drinking orange juice reduces memory loss; it only shows a relationship between them.'

====== 1718 ========

SCANS SHOW THE AREAS OF THE BRAIN THAT BECOME ACTIVATED WHEN AN ADDICT THINKS ABOUT THEIR VICE

Scans show the areas of the brain that become activated when a smoker, alcoholic or cocaine addict thinks about their vice.

Showing addicts images of the substances they are dependent on stimulates a region at the front of the organ that is linked to feeling pleasure.

The US researchers hope this finding could lead to treatments that 'switch off' networks in this part of the brain.

Similar non-invasive therapies are already used in depression with few side effects.

Image shows the parts of the brain that became activated when the addicts thought about their vice. On the left is the combined regions for the cocaine users, heavy drinkers and smokers. Right shows how the activated areas vary between different types of addicts

The researchers, from the Medical University of South Carolina, analysed a total of 156 chronic cocaine users, heavy drinkers and smokers.

The participants were shown images of the substance they were dependent on while their brain activity was monitored via an MRI scanner.

These images were broken up with 'neutral' pictures. For example a smoker was shown a person holding a cigarette, followed by them holding a pencil.

'Hot spots' in the medial prefrontal cortex region of the brains of all three of the different types of addicts became activated when they saw their vice.

The study was published in the journal Translational Psychiatry.

The medial prefrontal cortex is associated with pleasure, as well as decision making and memory.

The researchers hope that better understanding the brain networks that are affected by addiction will enable them to treat dependencies via non-invasive transcranial magnetic stimulation.

TMS is already used to treat depression and works by using magnetic fields to stimulate nerve cells in the brain that may be suppressed in sufferers of the mental-health disorder.

The treatment is painless and involves a patient placing an electromagnetic coil near their forehead.

Although generally considered safe, the researchers caution TMS can cause headache and even seizures.

Scan shows the regions that are activated in different types of addicts from varying angles

Studies investigating TMS' effect on cocaine and alcohol abuse are already underway at the MUSC.

The researchers hope that after around two weeks of treatment, the patients will show less activation in the medial prefrontal cortex.

'It's a really exciting time to be in the field,' senior author Dr Colleen Hanlon said.

'We have decades of research that have demonstrated specific neural circuits involved in drug use, and we have lots of clinical research that has developed various pharmacological agents.

'That's where TMS comes in. We hope to fill the gap between the studies and helping our patients.'

====== 1719 ========

MEXICAN FISH THAT CAN REPAIR ITS OWN HEART COULD HOLD HOPE FOR MILLIONS OF PATIENTS

A Mexican fish that can repair its own heart offers clues for future treatments in humans, according to new research.

Scientists discovered a gene that may hold the key to the fish's ability to regenerate its heart tissue.

The same gene, called Irrc10, is present in humans, and researchers at Oxford University say their new findings hold potential to change the lives of heart attacks patients.

Over half a million people in the UK are living with heart failure, often as a result of a heart attack, according to the British Heart Foundation, who funded the research.

Scientists at Oxford University compared Mexican tetra fish that either live in rivers (left), or caves (right). The former can repair it's own heart with the lrrc10 gene playing a key role

People suffering from heart failure can't regenerate their damaged hearts, and often the only cure is a heart transplant.

The new evidence about these remarkable fish, called tetra fish, suggests we could one day be able to heal human hearts in much the same way.

HOW HAVE FISH BEEN USED IN HEART STUDIES BEFORE? The zebrafish has been studied by The British Heart Foundation before. They have given funding for the following: The zebrafish embryo is transparent, which makes it ideal to study how the heart first starts to grow and beat. The development of its heart also begins in a similar way to humans. Scientists at the University of Glasgow are using a bespoke microscope to create a 3D movie image at different stages as the fish develops. Researchers at the University of Birmingham are trying to find better drugs for irregular heart rhythms, which can increase the risk of blood a stroke. Thousands of drugs can be tested in detail on zebrafish embryos because they have a very similar electrical profile to that of humans. Changes in a protein called Popdc have been linked with heart rhythm problems and muscular dystrophy, a group of genetic conditions. Imperial College London's research into how changes in Popdc proteins in zebrafish hearts can lead to conditions such as heart rhythm disorders, holds hope for humans. When blood vessels become damaged, cardiovascular conditions such as coronary heart disease or stroke can develop. The University of Sheffield has the largest number of zebrafish heart researchers in the UK. Here, they are looking at how zebrafish grow new vessels, which could help humans do the same once theirs is damaged. People who survive a heart attack may have heart tissue damage that can lead to debilitating heart failure. Scientists across the UK are looking at how zebrafish turn stem cells into heart muscle cells, remove scar tissue and repair their hearts. Source: British Heart Foundation

For this study, publised in Cell Reports, Dr Mathilda Mommersteeg and her team studied two types of Mexican tetra fish - river-dwellers (Astyanax mexicanus) and cave-dwellers (Pachón)

Both types once lives in the rivers of Northern Mexico. The now called cave-dwelling fish were washed into caves by floodwaters about 1.5 million years ago and evolved, losing their sight and colour because of living in darkness.

The cave fish lost the ability to repair their hearts, whereas the river fish are still able to do so.

Comparing the two types of tetra fish, researchers found two genes - lrrc10 and caveolin - were much more active in the river fish following heart injury.

The lrrc10 gene is already linked to a human heart condition called dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM).

Studies in mice have previously shown that this gene is involved in the way that heart cells contract with every heartbeat.

Having discovered this, they switched off the lrrc10 gene in a different species of fish with self-healing abilities, the zebrafish, native to the Himalayas.

With this gene no longer working properly, the zebrafish became unable to fully repair its heart without scarring.

Dr Mommersteeg, who's associate professor of developmental and regenerative medicine, said: 'We have discovered that, like zebrafish, the river surface fish regenerate their heart, while, cavefish cannot and form a permanent scar, similar to the human injury response after a heart attack.

'This finding is important as it allows to directly compare a 'fish-like' regenerative response with a 'human-like' scarring response within the same species.'

Scar tissue stops the heart muscle from contracting properly and reduces the heart's ability to pump blood around the body.

The study authors say their findings suggest it will one day be possible to regenerate damaged hearts in people by artificially modifying how these and other genes function.

This could be done either with drugs or by modifying DNA.

Zebrafish, that can also repair their own hearts, struggled to repair their hearts when the lrrc10 gene was turned off in the study

'We've been able to pick apart the genes responsible for heart regeneration', said Dr Mommersteeg. 'It's early days but we're incredibly excited about these remarkable fish and the potential to change the lives of people with damaged hearts.'

But she said more work is needed to find other key genes that may be involved in the heart regenerating.

Prof Metin Avkiran, associate medical director at the British Heart Foundation, said: 'Survival rates for heart failure have barely changed over the last 20 years, and life expectancy is worse than for many cancers.

'Breakthroughs are desperately needed to ease the devastation caused by this dreadful condition.'

====== 1720 ========

THE BENEFITS OF A FAMILY DINNER: SITTING DOWN TOGETHER FORCES TEENAGERS INTO A HEALTHIER DIET

Family meals really do improve teenagers' diets and put them on a path to healthy eating in later life - even if home life is dysfunctional, according to a new study.

Researchers surveyed more than 2,000 families in the US, and found unequivocally that kids who grow up with at least two family meals a week ate more fruit and vegetables, and fewer burgers and fries.

The impact was strongest on boys, they found, who were far more likely than girls to eat mainly junk food if they hadn't grown up with family dinners.

It is hardly the first study to suggest the power of family meals but researchers say it's more important than ever to investigate and share these findings as obesity rates soar, and teens become more reclusive.

Youngsters growing up in households where parents and children eating together is routine consume more fruit and vegetables and less burgers and chips. It also cuts boys' intake of soda

'Frequent family meals were associated with eating more fruits and vegetables and less fast food and take-out food for young people in both high and low-functioning families,' lead author Kathryn Walton, a nutrition PhD candidate at Guelph University in Canada, said.

'The findings suggest family dinners are a good way to encourage more healthful eating in adolescents and young adults.'

In the UK, only a third of Brits eat in the dining room - compared to just under half who use the lounge. The dinner table is now only used for special occasions - and a fifth of UK homes don't even have one.

In the US, the family dinner is still a strong part of culture. Around 88 percent of Americans say they regularly eat with other members of their household.

A bigger issue in the states is that most Americans (around 90 percent) don't like to cook, preferring take-out, which doesn't pack a nutritional punch.

But for this study, Walton and colleagues found family meals did encourage adolescents and young adults to have healthier diets and eat less fast food.

This was regardless of other daily domestic routines, communications and emotional connections.

Walton said: 'Eating meals, particularly dinner, with family members has been associated with improved dietary intake among youths.

'However, existing studies have not examined how family functioning may moderate or confound this association.'

Using data from 2,728 participants aged 14 to 24 her team combined dietary questionnaires and family functioning models.

These were based on factors such as educational attainment of mothers' spouse or partner and household structure.

Walton said: 'More frequent family dinners were associated with higher-quality dietary intake regardless of level of family functioning - interactions between family functioning and family dinner frequency were not significant.'

The links between the meals and healthier food consumption did not change when family functioning was taken into account.

Family dinners fuelled more fruit and vegetable consumption among males and females. They also had fewer fast food meals.

Walton said: 'When the goal is to improve dietary intake, family dinners are an appropriate intervention target for all adolescents and young adults regardless of level of family functioning.'

She added: 'Family dinners may be an appropriate intervention target for improving dietary intake among youths.'

It is recommended children eat five portions of fruit and vegetables per day.

Those who always eat together are more likely to achieve this. Watching parents and siblings eat teaches good habits, experts say.

Walton said: 'Adolescence and young adulthood are vulnerable life stages for the development of obesity.

'Poor dietary intake has been identified as a key risk factor for excess weight gain among these populations, with diet quality often declining from childhood to adolescence and young adulthood.

'Numerous studies have found that more frequent family meals are associated with improved dietary intake among adolescents and young adults.'

It's been argued family dysfunction may interfere with organizing and preparing healthy meals.

But Walton said: 'Our findings suggest not only do families with lower levels of functioning participate in frequent family meals but that family dinners are associated with improved dietary intake - regardless of level of family functioning.'

She added: 'Our results suggest family dinners are an appropriate target for improving youths' dietary intake.

'Although for some families, family-based therapy to improve family functioning may be important for other aspects of adolescent health or to reduce engagement in risky behaviors, such as drug use, when the goal is to improve dietary intake, participation in frequent family meals is an appropriate intervention method, even for families with lower levels of functioning.'

====== 1721 ========

WATERLOO ROAD ACTOR RICHARD MYLAN, 45, THANKS THE NHS FOR 'SAVING HIS WIFE'S LIFE'

TV actor Richard Mylan has thanked doctors for saving his wife's life after she battled cancer.

Mr Mylan, who plays deputy head teacher Simon Lowsley in Waterloo Road, has announced his wife Tammie, 31, has been given the all-clear after enduring surgery and eight months of chemo.

The 45-year-old Welsh actor stayed off social media for seven months while he supported Tammie as she received specialist treatment in London and Cardiff.

But, in a Twitter post put out yesterday, Mr Mylan said that after 'a year of extremes with many twists and turns', his wife is finally disease-free.

TV actor Richard Mylan has thanked doctors for saving his wife Tammie's life after she battled cancer. The pair are pictured on their wedding day in 2016, before the make-up artist fell ill

Mr Mylan took a hiatus from Twitter for seven months while she battled the disease but announced the happy news yesterday. He signed the post (pictured) off as being from himself, Tammie and his son Jaco. The actor has won two Welsh Baftas for a show about his son's autism

Tammie endured surgery and eight months of chemo while she fought the disease

Tammie took to Facebook yesterday to express her gratitude to the NHS

The post read: 'Since early March this year my wife Tammie has been in treatment for cancer. Its been a year of extremes with many twists and turns along the way.

'Tammie's resilience thru the darkest and toughest of times is just 1 of the many reasons why I'm incredibly proud 2 call her my wife.

'Today she received the all clear from Charing Cross Hospital.

'ThankU to the incredible oncology team at Charing Cross, the medical staff at the Heath Cardiff and of course, everyone at Velindre. ThankU for saving my wife.

'Life/work has been on hold and today we are incredibly grateful 2look forward 2Christmas, the new year and beyond. Richard, Tammie & Jaco.'

Mr Mylan met Tammie, who is a make-up artist, on the set of Waterloo Road and the pair married in 2016. It is unclear what type of cancer she had.

Speaking of her health battle, Tammie said: 'After surgery, eight months of chemotherapy and many hurdles along the way, I finally received the all-clear of cancer.

'So grateful to the wonderful NHS for saving my life. Dr Sarwar and his oncology team in Charing Cross Hospital were superb from start to finish. So grateful.'

Mr Mylan praised Tammie for her 'resilience' throughout the 'dark' and 'tough' time

After 'a year of extremes with many twists and turns', she is finally disease free, he said

The pair met while Tammie was working as a make-up artist on the set of Waterloo Road

Speaking at the time of their wedding, Mr Mylan said: 'We met on the set of Waterloo Road, we were both single and we often found ourselves at stupid o'clock in the morning together and we got together really quickly.

'We really just hit it off straight away. In fact, I pretty much knew as soon as I met her I wanted to marry her.

'I proposed to her on a bench that we used to sit on a lot overlooking the River Clyde.

'Waterloo Road had finished filming and I was returning to Cardiff and she was going home to Dundee and I set up my camera and said we should take some photos of our special place.

'I think she wondered what on earth I was doing because I kept setting it up for different poses and then I went down on one knee!'

Richard won two Welsh Baftas for a documentary he made with his son Jaco documenting his life with autism.

Tammie (pictured on her wedding day in 2016) called the staff who treated her at Charing Cross Hospital as 'superb from start to finish' and added that she is 'so grateful'

It is unclear what type of cancer Tammie suffered from but she was ill for several months

Mr Mylan said the pair 'hit it off straight away' and he instantly knew he wanted to marry her

After both finding themselves single, Mr Mylan said they 'got together pretty quickly'





====== 1722 ========

SUGAR SUPPLEMENT USED FOR UTIS SLOWS TUMOUR GROWTH

A sugar food supplement slows down deadly cancers and makes chemotherapy more effective, a study has found.

Mannose, a supplement sometimes used to treat or prevent urinary tract infections, has been proven to help treat cancer in mice.

The sugar works by blocking cancerous tumours from absorbing too much glucose – which they feed off – essentially starving them of energy they need to grow.

Experiments on mice with pancreatic, lung or skin cancer showed promising results for the supplement, and it could also help treat leukaemia and bone, ovarian or bowel cancers.

But experts stressed the research, which hasn't been tried on humans yet, is at an early stage and warned people not to take it upon themselves to use mannose.

Scientists found giving mannose alongside commonly-used chemotherapy drugs made them more effective, and the sugar slowed the growth of cancerous tumours in mice with lung, skin or pancreatic cancers (pictured: stock image of lung cancer cells under a microscope)

A study led by Cancer Research UK tested the use of mannose on its own or alongside chemotherapy drugs.

When it was added to water and swallowed by mice, the sugar slowed the growth of pancreas, skin or lung tumours without causing any obvious side effects.

And when taken alongside chemotherapy medications, the drugs had a stronger effect.

In the trial mannose was given alongside common drugs cisplatin and doxorubicin – together they reduced the size of tumours and even extended the lives of some mice.

'Tumours need a lot of glucose to grow, so limiting the amount they can use should slow cancer progression,' said Professor Kevin Ryan, the study's lead author from the Cancer Research UK Beatson Institute.

'The problem is that normal tissues need glucose as well, so we can't completely remove it from the body.

'In our study, we found a dosage of mannose that could block enough glucose to slow tumour growth in mice, but not so much that normal tissues were affected.

EXERCISING COULD MAKE CHEMOTHERAPY MORE EFFECTIVE Combining exercise with chemotherapy boosts the cancer-fighting effects of the drugs more than the treatment alone, according to a study published in 2014. Researchers at the University of Pennsylvania in the US discovered those who exercised while receiving chemotherapy had 'significantly smaller' tumours after two weeks than those that had only received the common chemotherapy drug doxorubicin. They believe this could be because exercise increases blood flow to the tumour, bringing with it more of the drug in the bloodstream. If exercising along with chemotherapy shrinks tumours in this way, patients could potentially use a smaller dose of the chemotherapy drug in order to suffer fewer of its side effects, the authors said. The study could also pave the way for developing drugs that mimic the effects of exercise, they added.

'This is early research, but it is hoped that finding this perfect balance means that, in the future, mannose could be given to cancer patients to enhance chemotherapy without damaging their overall health.'

Mannose sugar can be taken as a supplement to prevent urinary tract infections, which it's thought to be able to do by preventing certain types of bacteria sticking to the urinary tract.

The body absorbs it using the same type of protein which absorbs glucose – the type of sugar both cancerous tumours and health muscles use for energy.

Researchers think that, by taking mannose, people could clog up these proteins and reduce the amount of glucose taken in and used up by cancer cells.

As well as the three in which mannose was found to work, scientists believe leukaemia, osteosarcoma, ovarian and bowel cancer patients could benefit.

But tests on these types of the disease had mixed results.

Professor Ryan added: 'Our next step is investigating why treatment only works in some cells, so that we can work out which patients might benefit the most from this approach.

'We hope to start clinical trials with mannose in people as soon as possible to determine its true potential as a new cancer therapy.'

Martin Ledwick, Cancer Research UK's head nurse, added: 'Although these results are very promising for the future of some cancer treatments, this is very early research and has not yet been tested in humans.

'Patients should not self-prescribe mannose as there is a real risk of negative side effects that haven't been tested for yet.

'It's important to consult with a doctor before drastically changing your diet or taking new supplements.'

The findings were published in the journal Nature today.

====== 1723 ========

ENGLISH LANGUAGE TESTS WILL BE MADE EASIER FOR FOREIGN NURSES TO BEAT STAFF SHORTAGES IN NHS

English language tests for foreign nurses will be made easier in order beat staff shortages in the NHS.

The Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) said it plans to change the requirements for overseas health workers after some were 'just missing out' on the current standard.

Officials say lowering the required level of written English will mean more potential NHS workers can pass the threshold.

The regulator said changes would 'increase the flexibility' for workers to come to Britain, where the NHS workforce is under 'significant pressure'.

Regulators are proposing that English language tests are easier to allow more foreign nurses and midwives into the NHS to cope with the 'significant pressure'

Nurses and midwives are not permitted to practise in the UK without being on the NMC's register.

The NMC is proposing changes to the International English Language Test System (IELTS), which currently requires all employees to achieve level 7 in four areas.

Under the proposal, nurses and midwives will be required to continue achieving a minimum overall level of 7 in the English test but, in future, a level 6.5 in writing will be accepted alongside a level 7 in reading, listening and speaking.

There are other tests nurses and midwives can take to prove their English language capabilities.

HOW BAD IS THE NURSING CRISIS? The shortage of NHS staff in England is continuing to worsen, official figures show. Figures published by the regulator, NHS Improvement, for the April to June period showed that 11.8% of nurse posts were not filled - a shortage of nearly 42,000. According to Health Education England, around 33,000 of these positions are filled temporarily by agency staff – an unwelcome extra expense for local NHS trusts. As well as this, 9.3% of doctor posts were vacant - a shortage of 11,500. Overall, 9.2% of all posts were not filled - a shortage of nearly 108,000. A report by three leading health sector think-tanks estimates that if demand rises as predicted, the NHS will need 250,000 additional staff by 2030. But if skilled workers cannot be attracted from abroad the shortage could reach 350,000 – roughly a quarter of the 1.2million workforce. The report says a ten-year long-term plan for the NHS, which is due out next month, must include a funded, credible strategy to tackle the problem. Experts say low pay and long hours are two of the main factors which make finding nursing staff difficult. This, paired with student debt, makes the profession unappealing for young people. Of those quitting, more than half are under 40, with many citing stress and rising workloads for being behind their decision to leave.

'Nurses and midwives from outside the UK are a vital part of our workforce, without them the health and care system as we know it simply wouldn't exist,' said Emma Broadbent, director of registration and revalidation at the NMC, said.

'We absolutely recognise that good communication is essential to safer, better care and people can be assured that only those who can communicate to a high standard in English will be able to join our register.

'We also recognise the current workforce is under significant pressure and the number of vacancies are well documented.

'The change proposed would increase flexibility for highly skilled professionals coming to the UK without compromising safety.'

This isn't the first time the NMC has relaxed its language tests.

The number of nurses arriving to the UK from outside the EU increased by 80 per cent after adjustments were made in November 2017.

The move applied to nurses from both within the EU and the rest of the world, with Australians even struggling to pass.

Figures showed an average of 440 non-EU nurses joined the register each month between April and June, compared with an average of 237 a month in the previous nine months.

Danny Mortimer, chief executive of NHS Employers, said: 'Good communication between nurses, midwives and patients is of paramount importance to the safety and care of patients.

'We are really pleased that the NMC continues to carefully progress reforms to the system of language testing, and believe these recommendations balance the need to protect the public with improved access for much-needed nursing talent.'

Professor Lisa Bayliss-Pratt, chief nurse at Health Education England, added: 'HEE welcomes this announcement and will continue to support the NMC in ensuring the highest possible standards are achieved by the NHS workforce.'

Pressure is growing on the nursing profession and figures from NHS Improvement suggest that in England alone there are almost 42,000 job vacancies.

The nursing vacancy rates are up 17 per cent since the previous quarter, and 9 per cent from the same point last year.

The NHS recruitment crisis has become so bad that some parts of the country are only hiring one nurse for every 400 jobs advertised, NHS Digital statistics revealed in January.

It was also reported that 33,000 nurses quit in one year - an increase of 20 per cent since 2012 to 2013.

Tom Sandford, of the Royal College of Nursing, said the NHS Digital statistics painted a 'bleak picture'.

'The government must immediately investigate this sudden spike', he said.

The NMC's council will consider the proposals at a meeting on November 28.

====== 1724 ========

FATHER, 35, SURVIVED CANCER AS A TEENAGER THANKS TO HIS BROTHER'S BONE MARROW TRANSPLANT

A man whose brother gave him a life-saving bone marrow transplant when he developed leukaemia named his first 'miracle' child after his sibling.

Harry Page, now 35, was told he may never be able to have children after having intense chemotherapy during a bout of cancer when he was 19.

But seven years later his partner gave birth to their first daughter, Ryan, who Mr Page named after the brother who saved his life but died in 2006 aged 28.

Now a biological father to two and cancer-free, Mr Page, from New Jersey, said he was a 'selfish kid' but cancer changed him 'for the better' and made him appreciate how much his brother loved him.

Harry Page (pictured recently with his partner, Liz, and their daughters Ryan Julia, left, and Olivia Victoria,right) named his first-born daughter after his late brother, Ryan, who gave him a bone marrow transplant when he had cancer as a teenager

Ryan Page gave a lifesaving bone marrow transplant to his younger brother, Harry, but died aged 28 on New Year's Eve in 2006. Harry said receiving the transplant from his brother made him realise how much he loved him

'I was a very selfish and self-centred kid,' Mr Page said. 'I didn't realise at the time how big of a deal it was for him to go through all that pain to be donor.

'He was very easy going, very forgiving, whereas I was the complete opposite.

'Before he died, our relationship was so much better. He donated his stem cells without hesitation, he was happy to do it.

'I always felt that my brother didn't love me as much as my younger brother. But the truth is, my brother did love me, I just made it harder for him.'

Mr Page was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukaemia when he was 19 years old in 2002.

He had begun feeling weak and tired, lost weight quickly, and suffered from severe back and chest pain.

Doctors initially dismissed the teenager with acid reflux and inflammation of the hear, but after his third visit they agreed to do blood tests to try and get to the bottom of the problem.

Mr Page (pictured centre, surrounded by his family during his leukaemia treatment in 2002) said he had been a self-centred child but his ordeal with cancer and the generosity of his brother changed him for the better

Mr Page (pictured while in hospital) had to go through three rounds of intensive chemotherapy and was told he would be unlikely to have children of his own – but he defied the odds and now has two young daughters

Mr Page, pictured second from the right at his best friend's wedding with his brothers Ryan (left) and Jeff (second from left)

By this time, the pain was leaving Mr Page unable to sleep and bringing him to tears.

An oncologist took one look at his blood results and said he could have leukaemia and needed urgent treatment.

'I met an oncologist who travelled around to different hospitals,' Mr Page said.

'She looked at my blood work and told my parents I needed to be transferred immediately where my test results will take an hour not days.

WHAT IS ACUTE MYELOID LEUKAEMIA? Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a type of blood cancer that starts in young white blood cells in the bone marrow. AML is a rare type of cancer and there are approximately 2,600 new cases in the UK each year, and 19,500 in the US. It is most often diagnosed in older people, many people are over 65 when they are diagnosed with AML. Symptoms can include: Fatigue

Fever

Frequent infections

Bruising or bleeding easily, including nosebleeds or heavy periods

Weight loss

Bone and joint pain

Breathlessness

Swollen abdomen

Pale skin AML's exact cause is unclear, however, risks include: Smoking

Being overweight

Radiation exposure

Previous chemotherapy

Certain blood disorders, such as myelodysplastic syndrome

Some immune conditions, like rheumatoid arthritis AML is usually treated via chemotherapy. A bone marrow or stem cell transplant may be required. Source: Cancer Research UK

'She told my parents that she thought I had leukaemia and she was right.

'After being transferred to a hospital in New Brunswick they did a bone marrow biopsy and I had AML leukaemia.

'I started chemotherapy immediately and received three different rounds. The first round wasn't too bad, and I went into remission.'

Acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) is a rare type of blood cancer which starts in white blood cells as they're formed in the bone marrow.

It is thought to affect around 2,600 people a year in the UK and is more common in older people – most cases affect people over the age of 65.

Chemotherapy is the most common treatment for the cancer, and may sometimes be combined with a bone marrow transplant from a suitable donor.

Mr Page received a transplant from his older brother, Ryan, in November 2002, but Ryan then died on New Year's Eve 2006.

'My third round of chemotherapy completely wiped my bone marrow out and my older brother donated his stem cells to me,' Mr Page said.

'His stem cells took over and created a new bone marrow and my blood type changed.

'I came off all my medications in less than six months and I am the poster child for the hospital I was at.

'I truly believe that my faith in God and staying positive no matter what is the reason I'm still alive.'

Mr Page now has two children, despite being told he would not be able to conceive naturally after all the chemotherapy.

He has two daughters with his partner, Liz – Ryan Julia and Olivia Victoria – and he works as a real estate agent.

He credits the transplant his brother gave him for the life he has, adding: 'Cancer has changed my life for the better and changed my whole outlook on things.

Mr Page first realised he was unwell when he started to lose weight, get weaker at the gym, turn pale and experience tiredness and back and chest pain (pictured right, with cancer, and left, before). Doctors originally thought he had acid reflux and inflammation in the heart, but when an oncologist looked at his blood test results they discovered he had leukaemia

Mr Page, pictured recently with his partner Liz, his daughter Ryan and his stepson, Julian, now works as a real estate agent and said he feels 'grateful that I'm alive'

'I now wake up and I'm grateful that I'm alive. I visit my family members and tell them how much I love them.

'I also spend time with friends and realise that there is no promised tomorrow and to live every day to the fullest.

'Today I have a beautiful family with two miracle kids after having my transplant. I also have a stepson who I consider my own.

'I eventually want to end up just doing motivational speaking around the world. But I am truly grateful just to wake up each morning and have breath in my lungs by the gift of God.'

====== 1725 ========

SUGAR TAX RAISES £154MILLION IN SIX MONTHS

The UK's sugar tax has raised almost £154million in its first six months, Government figures have revealed.

From April, companies selling drinks with added sugar have been taxed between 18p and 24p per litre for certain drinks containing high levels of added sugar.

The new levy was introduced in an effort to fight childhood obesity, as more than a third of 11-year-olds in the UK are now overweight and soft drinks are one of their main sources of sugar.

Raising so much money from the tax was 'encouraging', one expert said, but they urged the Government to extend the levy to calories in sweets as well.

The sugar tax has been brought in by the UK Government as a measure to try and reduce childhood obesity, with experts warning soft drinks are a major source of excess sugar

Revenue and Customs figures have revealed the Soft Drinks Industry Levy raised a total of £153.8million between April and October.

There are 457 companies registered to pay the tax, and more than 90 per cent of the money came from charges on drinks with higher levels of sugar.

Drinks containing between five and eight grams of sugar per 100ml are now taxed at 18p per litre – the standard rate – whereas those containing more than eight grams per 100ml have to pay 24p per litre.

HOW MUCH SUGAR IS TOO MUCH? The amount of sugar a person should eat in a day depends on how old they are. Children aged four to six years old should be limited to a maximum of 19 grams per day. Seven to 10-year-olds should have no more than 24 grams, and children aged 11 and over should have 30g or less. Popular snacks contain a surprising amount of sugar and even a single can of Coca Cola (35g of sugar) or one Mars bar (33g) contains more than the maximum amount of sugar a child should have over a whole day. A bowl of Frosties contains 24g of sugar, meaning a 10-year-old who has Frosties for breakfast has probably reached their limit for the day before they even leave the house. Children who eat too much sugar risk damaging their teeth, putting on fat and becoming overweight, and getting type 2 diabetes which increases the risk of heart disease and cancer. Source: NHS

This has led to some products, such as Lucozade, Fanta, Sprite and Vimto changing their recipes so they contain less than five grams of sugar and avoid the tax.

While others, including Coca Cola and Pepsi, refused to change the recipe so pay the higher level of tax, meaning the price of the drinks has increased.

The Government says the money will be invested in sports clubs and breakfast clubs at schools around the country.

Kawther Hashem, a nutritionist at Action on Sugar said: 'Whilst it’s encouraging to see that the soft drink industry levy has raised such revenue, the government must now introduce an energy density levy on confectionery too.

'Setting a levy to a minimum of 20 per cent on all sweet and chocolate confectionery produced by manufacturers and retailers (and also those sold in cafés and restaurants) will provide an opportunity to reformulate based not on sugar content, but on overall energy-density of products.'

Fruit juice and milk-based drinks are currently not included under the sugar tax, but this could change in the future.

Dr Linda Greenwall, founder of the Dental Wellness Trust added: 'Whilst we welcome the news, it’s imperative that some of this revenue is invested in supervised tooth-brushing and oral health education programmes for school children.

'Tooth decay is now at a record high, largely because food and drink products are packed with unnecessary sugar.

'More youngsters are being admitted to hospital to have their teeth extracted at a cost of more than £36million to the NHS and the government must now act responsibly.'

The money raised by the tax has been revealed in the same week Public Health England warned many food producers in the UK are not doing enough to cut levels of sugar in their food.

PHE said it would call for more laws like the sugar tax if businesses – including restaurants and takeaways – don't get healthier.

And 90 per cent of people want the Government to require food to have less sugar and fewer calories, a survey showed.

Many agreed food producers and individuals should share the responsibility for tackling obesity.

Chief nutritionist at PHE, Dr Alison Tedstone said: 'Severe obesity in 10 to 11-year-olds is at an all-time high.

'Plans to improve the nation’s diet are often described as "nanny state" interference, but it’s clear people want healthier food and they expect the industry to play their full part in this.'

Obesity is a growing problem in the UK, with more than a quarter of adults and more than 111,000 children of primary school leaving age – one in five – are obese.

Being seriously overweight puts people at higher risk of type 2 diabetes, heart disease, cancer and stroke.

Experts predict nearly a quarter of the entire population of the world will be obese by 2045, with 48 per cent of Brits dangerously heavy.

====== 1726 ========

FIRST DATES STAR, 20, PAID £64,000 TO HAVE HIS SECOND LEG CUT OFF AFTER BEING INSPIRED BY DOG

A reality TV star plagued by a rare condition paid £64,000 to have his leg amputated - 18 years after his other limb was also removed.

James Bertrand, 20 - who appeared on Channel 4's First Dates - lived with constant pain due to blood clots caused by twin-to-twin transfusion disorder.

Having exhausted all medical options in the UK, he travelled to Australia where a surgeon eventually agreed to operate.

Bizarrely, Mr Bertrand was inspired to pursue osseointegration surgery - which involved hollowing out the bone and fitting it a prosthetic limb - by an episode of Supervet in which a dog had the same procedure.

Brother beyond: James Bertrand (right) photographed with twin brother Tom in July 2018. Mr Bertrand paid £64,000 to have his leg amputated - 18 years after his other limb was removed

Reality TV: James Bertrand (right) pictured on Channel 4's popular romance show First Dates

Beyond surgery: Mr Bertrand, pictured at the gym in September 2018, following his surgery

'If I hadn’t have watched the show then I would never have thought to ask about it,' says Mr Bertrand, from Chalfont St Peter, Buckinghamshire.

'I didn’t think much of it [the episode] at first. It was actually my mum who asked the question and that’s when it became a possibility.

'We asked my doctors in Dorset about it and they said it’s already being done on humans. It’s funny how it happened really.'

Born prematurely at 28 weeks with his twin brother, Tom, his condition means he developed blood clots in both his legs, so his left leg had to be amputated when he was 18-months-old, and he wore a traditional ‘socket’ prosthetic.

His remaining right leg was also severely damaged with no main artery, which meant his foot couldn’t move, he had no muscle in that leg, and he was in constant pain.

'My right leg got worse as I grew up and I couldn’t walk on hard surfaces without shoes on. My leg was just so sensitive. It was causing me more problems that my left. I went to see a consultant and he told me that my right leg had to go.

Boy power: The siblings were born prematurely at 28 weeks due to their rare blood disorder

'He basically said ‘it’s a stick’ and wasn’t functional. I burst into tears. I couldn’t imagine not having any legs.

'Deep down I knew it was the right thing to do but I struggled to come to terms with it straight away,' he added. 'It was causing me pain but it was still my leg. I started to think about the things I wouldn’t be able to do anymore.

'I’d never be able to feel the ground when I stand up again.'

But, determined to be pain-free, he raised £60,000 to finance the surgery, which took place in May.

Now he is almost pain free and it has 'transformed' the way he walks.

Loyal: James and Tom photographed in May 2018 as he completed a 5K run before the surgery

Determined: Keen to be pain-free, he raised £60,000 to finance the Australia-based surgery

He took his first steps without crutches in August and has gained five inches in height due to the new longer limb.

His new leg also allowed James to stand up in the shower for the first time, and has increased his mobility and given him a new lease of life.

'I can never stub my toe or stand on a plug socket, which is great. But I can do anything that I want to.

'It’s early days but it will be life changing for me,' he says.

'At first I did regret it because the recovery was so hard. It was mentally draining.

'I’m hoping to go travelling to Thailand, Indonesia and Bali some time soon. I’m a positive person and just had to stay strong.'

Staying positive: 'I’m hoping to go travelling to Thailand, Indonesia and Bali some time soon. I’m a positive person and just had to stay strong,' Mr Bertrand says

Inspired: James (right) hopes to inspire others into being brave by talking about his life

Family affair: The brothers pictured with their father Graham (left), sister Kitty (second from left), Sophie (fourth from left) and mother Carolyn (right), who travelled with him down-under

WHAT IS TWIN-TWIN TRANSFUSION SYNDROME? Twin-twin transfusion syndrome is a rare but serious condition that can occur in identical pregnancies when twins share a placenta. Abnormal blood vessel connections form in the placenta and prevent blood from flowing evenly between the babies. One twin then becomes dehydrated, which affects its growth. The other develops high blood pressure and produces too much urine. This leads to an enlarged bladder and excessive amounts of amniotic fluid, which can put a strain on the twin's heart, leading to heart failure. Without treatment, TTTS can be fatal for both twins. Around 300 twins die from the condition every year in the UK, while 6,000 babies are affected annually in the US. Draining excess amniotic fluid can help to improve blood flow. If this is not enough, laser surgery is used to seal shut abnormal blood vessels and permanently disconnect them. The surgeon then drains excess fluid. Even when treated successfully, most TTTS babies are born premature. However, the majority go on to have long, healthy lives. Source: Cincinnati Children's hospital





====== 1727 ========

SILICONE BREAST IMPLANTS INCREASE THE RISK OF ARTHRITIS, STILLBIRTH AND EVEN SKIN CANCER

Silicone implants can increase a woman's risk of arthritis, stillbirth and even skin cancer, a new study suggests.

Researchers found that women had a 4.5-fold increased risk of having a stillbirth and a four times greater risk of developing melanoma after their procedures.

In comparison with saline implants, women with silicone implants were also two times more likely to have surgical complications, particularly scarring around the implant.

The team, from the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, says its study is the largest of breast implant outcomes to date and the findings are important to help women choose the implant they feel is right for them.

Women with silicone implants are at a greater risk of developing rheumatoid arthritis, having a stillbirth or being diagnosed with skin cancer, a new study has found (file image of silicone implant)

The most popular implants approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) are silicone implants and implants filled with a saline solution.

Silicone implants use shells filled with a plastic gel while saline implants use silicone shells filled with a sterile saline solution.

For breast reconstruction, the rebuilding of a breast, both implants are approved for women of all ages.

For breast augmentation, meant to increase the size or change the shape of a breast, saline implants are approved for women aged 18 or older and silicone implants are approved for women aged 22 or older.

Many women say silicone implants feel more like real breasts than saline implants do, but they pose a greater risk if they leak.

In the early 1990s, the FDA prohibited silicone implants after several health concerns were raised about their association to a risk of cancer, connective tissue disease and autoimmune diseases.

No research established a definitive link between silicone implants and these conditions.

After silicone implants from two manufacturers were approved in 2006, the FDA conducted many postapproval studies, but no researchers had analyzed the database.

For the new study, published in the journal Annals of Surgery, the team looked at nearly 100,000 patients enrolled in large postapproval studies between 2007 and 2010.

Approximately 80,000 had silicone implants and the rest received implants filled with a saline solution.

Additionally, 72 percent of the women had a breast augmentation, 15 percent had a revision augmentation, 10 percent had breast reconstruction, and three percent had revision reconstruction.

Researchers found the women who had silicone implants had a higher risk of several rare adverse outcomes.

This included rheumatoid arthritis; Sjogren's syndrome, an immune system disorder characterized by dry eyes and dry mouth; and sclerodermia, chronic hardening and tightening of the skin and connective tissues.

All these conditions came with a risk six to eight times higher in these women than in the general population.

Women with silicone implants were also at a 4.5-fold increased risk of having a stillbirth, but not a miscarriage.

Researchers also found that women with silicone implants had a risk of developing melanoma that was four times greater.

Silicone implants were also associated with a higher risk of surgical complications compared to saline solutions.

Around five percent of women had scarring around the implant, known as capsular contracture, compared with 2.8 percent of women with saline implants.

'We are reporting an analysis of the largest prospective study to date on silicone breast implant safety,' said Dr Mark Clemens, an associate professor in the department of plastic surgery at MD Anderson Cancer Center.

'We are sharing critical information on complication rates and rare associations with systemic harms. This data gives women important safety information about silicone breast implants to have real expectations and to help them choose what is right for them.'

The authors noted that although certain risks were more common in women with silicone implants, 'absolute rates of these adverse outcomes were low'.

'Women shouldn't panic but what it does tell us is that there's something going on and it's different than what women have been told for the last two decades,' Dr Diana Zuckerman, President of the National Center for Health Research, told DailyMail.com

'It's still cause for concern and you have to think that all those increased risks adds up. Not all women are getting all these diseases but it's some getting one and some getting another that could be statistically different.'

But Dr Stuart Linder, a plastic surgeon from Beverly Hills, California, is skeptical of the study.

'I use silicone implants and I have for over 20 year and I haven’t seen anything that has hinted of this,' he told DailyMail.com.

'Unless the FDA states the risk is higher, then the products are deemed to be safe and usable in surgery.'





====== 1728 ========

FOUR-YEAR-OLD WAS DIAGNOSED WITH CANCER AFTER DOCTORS DISMISSED HIS WEEPING EYE AS A COLD

A four-year-old’s weeping eye turned out to be a rare form of deadly cancer.

Harri Cooke, from Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire, was a happy and healthy toddler before his mother, Carly, 33, noticed he had a weeping eye, last September.

Initially, she assumed her son had a common cold that had caused conjunctivitis.

But it wasn’t until his face began to swell that further tests were conducted in January, this year, and he was diagnosed with Ewing’s Sarcoma - a rare type of bone cancer.

Hidden in plain sight: Harri Cooke, from Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire, can be seen with a weeping eye which was caused by a cancerous tumour which doctors mistook for a cold

'Harri often had colds so at first I didn’t think much of his weeping eye,' says Mrs Cooke, a self-employed massage therapist.

'The doctors agreed that it was likely to be this but as the weeks passed he was believed to have a blocked tear duct.

'It didn’t seem to bother him, he was so happy all of the time. But when his face began to swell we were referred from our GP to an eye specialist.

‘Once we arrived six doctors turned up, and they all seemed really worried. The NHS did everything they could but we just didn’t realise how serious it was.

'Harri’s bone structure around his eye had changed, indicating the malicious mass that lay behind.

'His type was so rare - we were in complete shock. You never think it’s going to be your child.'

Tell-tale signs: Harri’s bone structure around his eye had changed, indicating the malicious mass that lay behind it - which was successfully removed

Brave boy: Harry, pictured left, is now in remission after various forms of therapy, including chemotherapy and proton beam therapy (right) which took place in Florida, USA

Family ties: Carly Cooke, 33, with her son, Harri, who are now raising awareness of Ewings Sarcoma, which is more commonly found among boys and young men

WHAT IS EWING SARCOMA? Ewing sarcoma is a rare type of cancer that affects bones or the tissue around bones. It mainly affects children and young people, with most cases diagnosed in people aged 10 to 20. It's more common in males than females. Ewing sarcoma can spread to other parts of the body quite quickly. The earlier it's diagnosed, the better the chance there is of the treatment being successful. It can be cured in some cases, but not if the cancer has spread. The cancer can also come back after treatment, so regular check-ups will be offered to look for any signs of this. Overall, more than half of people with Ewing sarcoma live at least five years after diagnosis, but this can vary. SOURCE: NHS Choices

Six days later, Harri embarked on a course of proton beam therapy - a type of radiotherapy which uses protons rather than x-rays.

He endured 30 treatments in Florida, USA - which continued every day under general anaesthetic for six weeks. The NHS funded the trip.

He also had fourteen rounds of traditional chemotherapy.

'Despite everything he was still smiling,' Mrs Cooke adds. 'It was so hard watching him go through it, it was like torture.'

Thankfully, it paid off and the youngster is now in remission. But his parents, including his 30-year-old father, James, worry how his treatment will affect him in the long-run.

'Harri’s treatments means that he could have growth issues, teeth problems and is more likely to have cancer later in life,' Mrs Cooke added.

'He’s had to have over 20 blood transfusions to try and save his life.'

Difficult: 'Despite everything he was still smiling,' Mrs Cooke adds. 'It was so hard watching him go through it, it was like torture'

State-funded: Harri seen at the Proton Therapy Institute in Florida, a trip paid for by the NHS

'I believe that only one percent of fundraising from big cancer charities goes specifically to children’s cancer,' she added.

'The medication is so much harsher to children.'

Now, Mrs Cooke is urging other parents to recognise the signs, however small, of this deadly illness, and help raise awareness of how a child can be affected.

'It’s so rare and unexpected that it’s hard to know what to look for.

'Blood supplies are currently depleted, and donors are needed for both blood and platelet transfusions.

'Charities like CLIC Sargent, a charity for children with cancer, are brilliant for helping families and informing them.'

====== 1729 ========

HOW CARBS COULD BE THE SECRET TO LIVING LONGER: DIET RICH IN BREAD MAY PROTECT AGAINST DEMENTIA

We are told to avoid carbohydrates for a svelte figure.

But low-protein, high-carb diets may be the key to living longer and protecting against dementia, suggests a new study.

Researchers at the University of Sydney found that mice fed such a diet showed improvements in overall well-being and brain health, plus learning and memory.

Now, they study's authors believe that similar result could be seen in humans.

More is more? Eating carb-heavy meals could produce benefits in the hippocampus - the region of the brain responsible for learning and memory

The research, published in the journal Cell Reports, shows for the first time that unrestricted low-protein, high-carb diets have similar protective benefits for the brain as calorie restriction, which is known for its longevity benefits although not sustainable in humans.

Devin Wahl, a PhD candidate who led the analysis, said: 'There are currently no effective pharmaceutical treatments for dementia - we can slow these diseases, but we can't stop them - so it's exciting that we are starting to identify diets that are impacting how the brain ages.

'We have close to 100 years of quality research extolling the benefits of calorie restriction as the most powerful diet to improve brain health and delay the onset of neurodegenerative disease in rodents.

'However, the majority of people have a hard time restricting calories, especially in Western societies where food is so freely available.

'It shows a lot of promise that we have been able to replicate the same kind of gene changes in the part of the brain responsible for memory that we also see when we severely restrict calories.'

Low-protein high-carb diets are by no means a new fad.

Senior author Professor David Le Couteur said numerous cultures including the people of Japan's Okinawa and many parts of the Mediterranean have long observed this mix.

Good for you: High-carb diets could be just as effective as low calorie diets in promoting a long life in mice through good heart and digestive health, experts say

DEMENTIA STATISTICS There are 850,000 people living with dementia in the UK, with numbers set to rise to over 1 million by 2025. This will soar to 2 million by 2051. 225,000 will develop dementia this year, that's one every three minutes. 1 in 6 people over the age of 80 have the condition. The disease is thought to be largely caused by genetics, with smoking, obesity and lack of exercise increasing the risk. SOURCE: Alzheimers UK

'The traditional diet of Okinawa is around nine per cent protein, which is similar to our study, with sources including lean fish, soy and plants, with very little beef,' he said.

'Interestingly, one of their main sources of carbohydrate is sweet potato.'

For the study, researchers fed the mice complex carbohydrates derived from starch, and casein protein which is found in cheese and milk.

To assess the brain benefits of the diet, the researchers focused on the hippocampus, the region of the brain responsible for learning and memory.

Prof Couteur added: 'The hippocampus is usually the first part of the brain to deteriorate with neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's.

'However, the low-protein high-carbohydrate diet appeared to promote hippocampus health and biology in the mice, on some measures to an even greater degree than those on the low-calorie diet.'

Learning and memory were assessed via a series of tests, with researchers noting modest improvements in male and female mice at both young and old ages.

This research follows a landmark 2015 study. also from the University of Sydney's Charles Perkins Centre, that showed low protein, high carb diets could be just as effective as low calorie diets in promoting a long life in mice through good heart and digestive health.

Dr James Pickett, Head of Research at Alzheimer’s Society, commented: 'This diet appears to promote some aspects of healthy brain ageing in mice, but we don’t know if it would have the same effects in people or whether it could impact the risk of developing dementia.

'Although this study looked at brain ageing generally and not dementia specifically, mounting evidence highlights the relationship between lifestyle factors such as diet and dementia risk, so Alzheimer’s Society is funding a long-term study of 700 people at risk of dementia to better understand these links.

'With nothing yet to slow or stop dementia, prevention is key - and we know simple changes like eating healthy and exercising regularly can reduce our risk, so why not swap box sets and biscuits for a brisk walk.'

====== 1730 ========

VAPING TEENS ARE NOT TURNING TO TOBACCO, STUDY SUGGESTS

As teenagers have flocked to trendy e-cigarettes, public health officials have been in a near panic that they will move on to traditional, combustible cigarettes.

But a new study from Georgetown University Comprehensive Cancer Center offers some reassurance that this may not be the case.

E-cigarettes - especially the USB-like Juul - have become more popular than regular cigarettes or any other drugs among teenagers.

Typically, the devices contain nicotine 'juices' that get heated and vaporized. Often, a single pod or canister is as potent as a pack of cigarettes - and teenagers don't realize how much nicotine they're inhaling.

Nicotine is highly-addictive, so the concern is that vaping will be a gateway to smoking, and raising risks of heart disease, lung cancer and early death from an early age.

Public health officials are deeply concerned that teens that vape will take up smoking - but a new study suggests we're past the 'tipping' point and e-cigs aren't driving up smoking

But the authors of the new study insist that if more teens were going to adopt regular cigarettes, it would have happened at the 2014 'tipping point' - rather than teenage smoking declining even more rapidly, as it has thus far.

E-cigarettes are immensely popular among teenagers - and have only become more so with time.

In 2013, cigarettes were were almost three times more popular for high school students than vaping was.

By 2015, those statistsics had been flipped on their heads.

By then, 2.39 teenagers had vaped and just 1.37 million had smoked combustible cigarettes in the past year.

It seemed, briefly, that e-cigarettes of unknown dangers were doing a public service by drawing high school students away from regular cigarettes that we knew for fact were highly dangerous.

But that glowing impression of the little battery powered vaporizers didn't last.

Just a year later, in 2016, 1.7 million high school-age Americans admitted that they vaped regularly, puffing on Juuls or other devices at least in the month before they were surveyed.

And by earlier this year, Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Scott Gottlieb was condemning vaping as an 'epidemic' endangering young impressionable minds and bodies.

His announcement - practically a declaration of war on the devices - cited a host of research indicating that e-cigs might work as cessation tools for current smokers, but for teenagers, naive to cigarettes and nicotine in general, they were just a gateway to the real deal.

Perhaps the most widely cited study was headed up by Dr Adam Levanthal, a University of Southern California, who found that Los Angeles high school students who vaped using high nicotine-content e-cigs were far more likely to take up smoking cigarettes regularly six months later.

The FDA has since cracked down on ad campaigns and flavors that are particularly appealing to teenagers (mainly targeting the makers and distributors of the blockbuster vape, Juul).

But the latest research suggests that the tipping point for teen vapers to transition to the harder (combustible) stuff - and smoking has just continued to fall faster and faster out of fashion among American youth.

The researchers looked at data on how much 15- to 25-year-olds vaped or smoked between 2004 and 2017.

Among all of the young age groups that the Georgetown University researchers assessed, fewer and fewer people have been smoking cigarettes before and while vaping

Vaping still didn't have a huge following in 2013, but its popularity surged in 2014, according to self-reported data on young peoples' usage.

E-cig sales doubled around the same time, too, suggesting to the research team that this was the critical adoption period, which they dubbed the tipping point.

Cigarettes have long been losing popularity in the US in general and among teenagers in particular - but their decline really kicked into high gear in 2013, which, as the researchers point out, coincides with the e-cig surge for 18- to 21-year-olds.

The researchers assert that if e-cigs were being so widely adopted and so significantly pushed young Americans toward cigarettes, we already would have seen cigarette smoking take an upward turn, or at lest for its decline to slow.

'While caution is warranted in interpreting our findings, they paint a consistent picture of accelerated reductions in youth and young adult smoking prevalence as vaping became more widespread,' the researchers wrote.

They conceded that their research isn't causal, and e-cigs may still act as a gateway substance for some, 'but the aggregate effect of this relationship at the population level may be small enough that its effects are swamped by other factors that influence smoking behavior,' the authors wrote.

Overarchingly, though they said that 'if our primary concern is population level trends in youth and young adult smoking, which we believe is appropriate, then vaping has not shown to be a serious cause for concern ... and may be playing a contributing role to the recent steep declines in youth and young adult smoking.'

But Dr Michael Ong, a University of California, Los Angeles professor who specializes in tobacco and behavior, said it's still too soon to tell - much less to let our guard against a new nicotine product down.

'I think we are all worried about a potential increase in cigarette use rather than the decrease we have seen,' he told Daily Mail Online.

'That increase may not be apparent for some time due to the survey approaches we use (for example, among adults, instead of the youth/young adult users). Similarly, we are actively working to try to prevent the transition of youth/young adults transitioning from vaping to regular cigarette use.'

====== 1731 ========

MOTHER DONATED A KIDNEY TO HER TWO-YEAR-OLD SON AFTER HEART TRANSPLANT CAUSED HIS ORGANS TO FAIL

A mother has been able to save her two-year-old's life by donating one of her kidneys.

Jace Josephson, from Minnesota, was born with hypoplastic left heart syndrome, a condition which means the left side of the heart does not develop correctly.

After two major surgeries and a heart transplant, which involved being on life support for almost half a year, Jace's kidneys failed.

Mother Akasha Josephson, 23, was overjoyed to find she was a suitable match to donate a kidney, just in time for Thanksgiving.

Akasha Josephson, 23, from Minnesota, was able to donate her left kidney to her two-year-old son Jace Josephson

Jace was born was a heart condition called hypoplastic left heart syndrome, which means he is unable to pump oxygen properly

Hypoplastic left heart syndrome, a form of congenital heart disease, means Jace is unable to pump oxygen-rich blood throughout the body.

About 960 babies are born in the US every year with this defect, according to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and around 200 in the UK.

Before Jace was seven months old, he had two major heart operations to insert shunts to help balance the blood flow.

But Jace went into cardiac arrest ahead of his third surgery in August 2017 and doctors determined he would need a heart transplant to survive.

He waited 146 days whilst on life support, until he was given a donor heart on January 27.

But three weeks after his transplant, things began to go wrong.

After Jace's heart transplant, which he waited for on life support for 146 days, his kidneys failed

The family, including Jace's sister Lilliona, four, and father Timothy Josephson, hope to spend Christmas together this year, but Jace will be in hospital for Thanksgiving

Mrs Josephson, who is also mother to Liliiona, four, and married to husband Timothy Josephson, said: 'His large intestine died and broke open.'

WHAT IS HYPOPLASTIC LEFT HEART SYNDROME? Hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) is a birth defect, affecting normal blood through the heart and thus the rest of the body. It occurs while the baby is developing during pregnancy, when the left side of the heart doesn't form correctly. HLHS is a congenital heart defect, meaning it's present at birth. Normally, the right side of the heart pumps oxygen-poor blood to the lungs, and the left side pumps oxygen-rich blood to the rest of the body. When someone doesn't have a left side, the right side has to do both jobs. The CDC estimates each year less than 1,000 babies are born in the United States with HLHS. Around 200 are made in the UK. Figures suggest 30 per cent of infants who survive a heart transplant will die before they turn five. Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

Because of this, and the medication needed for his heart, his kidneys were unable to cope and failed.

In heart transplantation, altered kidney function is not uncommon immediately after.

Many patients have temporary dialysis - the process of remove waste products and liquids from kidneys that aren't functioning - and gradually recover normal kidney function.

Yet others have chronic kidney failure and require help clearing their blood indefinitely.

After almost ten months of dialysis, Mrs Josephson was told she could donate her kidney to her son.

The criminal justice student and Jace underwent the surgery on November 19, just in time for Thanksgiving.

She said: 'I feel so relieved that I was able to do this for him.

'He is an amazing, positive little boy and he never stops smiling. I'm a little sore but it was only keyhole surgery.

'They put it into Jace and the kidney made urine straight away which is amazing.

'He's been through so much, it's so hard for any toddler to be in hospital but he has an incredible spirit.'

Jace's surgeries have weakened his lungs and the two-year-old lives with a tracheostomy tube to help him breathe.

His doctors at the Mayo Clinic Hospital, Saint Mary's Campus in Minnesota, believe it won't be a permanent fixture in his life.

Although he will remain on immunosuppressants for the remainder of his life to prevent his organs rejecting, doctors believe he will lead a full and happy life.

Mrs Josephson will be discharged on Wednesday but it is likely her son will remain in hospital over the holidays.

She said: 'I'm not sure what Jace wants from Santa but I'm sure he'll figure it out.

'I'm just looking forward to a Christmas at home with my family. Jace was in hospital last year awaiting his transplant.

'It will be nice to have my kids together and my husband.'

====== 1732 ========

MORE CHICKENPOX CASES REPORTED IN ANTI-VAXXER COMMUNITY

Thirty-three private school students in North Carolina now have chickenpox in the biggest outbreak to hit the state since the vaccine was invented in 1995.

Another five cases were reported this week at Asheville Waldorf School, which has been trying to quarantine non-infected, unvaccinated children since late October.

In a statement, school directors said it has provided information about the outbreak to the health department as they work to contain the infections.

North Carolina's rate of unvaccinated children doubled between 2012 and 2016 due to easy exemption rules for religious reasons.

Asheville Waldorf School now has 33 cases of chickenpox, up from 13 earlier this month. North Carolina's rate of unvaccinated children doubled between 2012 and 2016 due to easy exemption rules (file image)

To obtain a medical exemption, parents need a doctor to prove that their child is immunocompromised and would be harmed by the vaccine, and the state has to approve their application to prove that.

However, religious exemption is much simpler. There is no oversight. The parent need only write a letter to the school claiming religious beliefs, and their child is exempt.

According to an article North Carolina's The News & Observer last year, the rate of children exempted for medical reasons remains low (just 180 kids). But religious exemptions have risen dramatically, from 871 in 2012 to 2,073 in 2016.

The lack of approval process means 'you don’t even have to believe in God,' Asheville-based lawyer Alan Phillips told the newspaper.

Trying to bring the latest outbreak under control, Buncombe County Medical Director Dr Jennifer Mullendore said students who can't provide proof of vaccination against chickenpox have been quarantined for 21 days. One of the infected children attends a different school.

Asheville Waldorf, a private school, opened in 2009, first with the name Azalea Mountain School.

It serves students from nursery school age to Grade 6, with approximately 130 students, for up to $8,900 a year.

'Asheville Waldorf School is committed to protecting the health and safety of our community,' the school said in a statement.

====== 1733 ========

HALF OF US ADULTS DO ABSOLUTELY NO EXERCISE AND 25% DON'T STAND FOR 8 HOURS

Almost half of US adults are 'couch potatoes' managing absolutely no exercise, a new study has shown.

Using data from the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), researchers found that a quarter of adults sit for more than eight hours per day and one in 10 are physically inactive.

In fact, just 2.6 percent of the population sits for less than four hours a day.

Lack of exercise and being sedentary are both well-known to increase the risk of several health problems including diabetes, heart disease and cancer.

The team, led by the University of Pennsylvania, says understanding the prevalence of these behaviors could help doctors determine whether to prioritize interventions focusing on sedentary time, physical activity or both.

A new study, led by the University of Pennsylvania, has found that a quarter of adults sit for more than eight hours per day (file image)

For the study, which was published in The Journal of the American Medical Association, researchers analyzed data from the 2015-16 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey.

The survey assesses the health of adults and children in the US and tracks changes over time.

Sedentary behavior was measured as time spent sitting down with examples including at a desk at work, traveling in a car, watching TV or using a computer.

It was assessed with the question: 'How much time do you usually spend sitting on a typical day?'

Participants could answer in categories of zero to less than four hours, four to less than six hours, six to eight hours, and more than eight hours per day

The respondents also reported the frequency and duration of physical activity during a typical week.

This was calculated using current guidelines as inactive (no moderate-or-vigorous intensity activity), insufficiently active (some but not enough to meet the definition), sufficiently active (150 to 300 minutes per week) or highly active (more than 300 minutes per week).

Researchers discovered that 26 percent of US adults sit for more than eight hours per day and 45 percent are physically inactive.

Even more surprising, one in 10 US adults are both.

The smallest proportion sat for less than four hours per day and were sufficiently active - a mere 2.6 percent.

'Both high sedentary behavior and physical inactivity have negative health effects, and evidence suggests the risk of premature mortality is particularly elevated when they occur together,' said Dr Emily Ussery, an epidemiologist at the CDC.

'Evidence-based strategies to reduce sitting time, increase physical activity, or both would potentially benefit most US adults, particularly older adults.'

The smallest proportion sat for less than four hours per day and were sufficiently active - a mere 2.6 percent

The benefits of exercise are well-known. It can reduce the risk of major illnesses, such as stroke, heart disease, type 2 diabetes and cancer by up to 50 percent and lower risk of early death by 30 percent.

Moreover, regular physical activity can boost self-esteem, mood, sleep quality and energy, as well as reducing the risk of stress, depression and dementia.

New guidelines released last week by the US Department of Health and Human Services urge Americans that any bit of physical activity is important /

It's an attempt to raise the bar higher - previously, guidelines said adults should be aiming for at least 10 minutes of aerobic activity a day.

But adherence has been low, so scientists are now changing tact, encouraging people to see the benefit in any bit of movement - even if it just last two or three minutes.

====== 1734 ========

PARENTS SHARE HEARTBREAKING FOOTAGE OF CPR ON THEIR BABY AFTER SHE WAS ALMOST KILLED BY COLD

Parents of an eight-week-old girl have shared a heartbreaking video of their baby on the brink of death when a common cold nearly killed her.

Eliza Hobbs spent five days in a medically induced coma and endured CPR four times after the cold developed into a serious chest infection.

Her parents, Thomas Hobbs, 27, and Sophie Hobbs, 23, from Billingham, County Durham, are warning people not to kiss other people's babies after their terrifying ordeal.

The baby was rushed to hospital earlier this month when Mr Hobbs woke to find her 'pale and lifeless' in her cot.

He said: 'A simple lovable kiss could have killed our baby.'

Eliza Hobbs spent five days in a medically induced coma when a common cold turned into a serious chest infection when she was eight weeks old

Parents Sophie and Thomas Hobbs are warning other parents not to let people kiss their babies, believing Eliza could have contracted the deadly cold from someone else

'We thought we were going to watch her take her last breath'. Eliza, pictured before her parents' wedding, spent seven days in intensive care

'The message I want to get out there is if anyone has a cold don't let them kiss your baby. It can be passed on through colds, cold sores, viruses.'

Mr Hobbs said that Eliza had recently picked up a cough and had been 'sniffling' so took her to the doctors, but were later sent home and told to keep an eye on her.

Five days later, on November 7, he found the toddler lifeless in her cot and unresponsive.

Mr Hobbs said: 'I went in to see her and she was lifeless. She was really pale and wasn't responding. I knew there was something really wrong so I phoned an ambulance.

'There was this feeling of dread and absolute fear. We were thinking is she going to pull through or is this the end for her.

'When we got to the hospital she was put into a little cot and on high flow oxygen.

'She suddenly went blue and 20 doctors rushed round the bed. It felt like we were in the centre of an earthquake – like we'd been pushed to the back of the room and all we could do was watch our daughter and we couldn't do anything to help her.

'At that point we thought we'd lost her. They were performing CPR on her.

'She stopped breathing for about a minute but they managed to bring her back round.'

Doctors performed CPR on Eliza three-four times because she stopped breathing

Mrs Hobbs said her baby had been 'left lifeless by a common cold', and warns others parents to keep their babies warm. Pictured, Eliza is on oxygen after coming out the coma

Eliza, pictured in a coma, couldn't cry when she woke because of the swelling in her chest and windpipe

Eliza was transferred to another hospital and was placed into a medically induced coma.

Mr Hobbs said: 'They were listening to her chest and could hear secretions. They took swabs to try and find out if it was viral or bacterial infection.

'They couldn't identify what it was from the results so put it down to a chest infection but we think it was bronchitis.

'She was put into a medically induced coma.

'It was the worst scenario we could imagine. We just stood at the end of the bed and couldn't take our eyes off her.

'We thought we were going to watch her take her last breath.

'She was in coma for five days and three or four times they had to perform CPR because she stopped breathing.

'It could have been a cold that would have just passed had it been an adult but it developed into a massive chest infection which became life-threatening.'

Eliza came round and was able to breath on her own before she was sent home after spending seven days in the intensive care unit.

Mr and Mrs Hobbs, pictured with Eliza, say people need to keep their hands clean, keep their babies warm, and stay away from babies if you have a cold

Mr Hobbs said: 'When she came round properly she couldn't cry. She sounded like a purring kitten because of the swelling on her chest and in her windpipe.

'It's like you could sense the pain and confusion. It really upset us.

'Everyday she's getting a bit better and less chesty. Bringing her home was amazing – just being able to give her that safety and security and she could become part of the family.

'She's a little fighter. She fought when she was born and she's had to do it again.

'She's mischievous and she'll burst into these little smiles and giggles. She's beautiful and I wouldn't have her any other way.

'Thankfully she's going to make a full recovery and we're able to enjoy her as new parents.

Taking to social media, mother Mrs Hobbs said her baby had been left 'lifeless by a common cold'.

She said: 'I want to make all parents aware please please keep warm in the cold weather and keep your babies warm too.

'I just want to warn all parents as it is heartbreaking for me and my husband to see our baby girl like this. Please do not let other people kiss your baby.'

Mr Hobbs added: 'We are very protective parents and this still happened to us. We don't know where she picked it up from but it could have been deadly.

'People need to make sure they wash their hands – simple things like that and if they've got a cold stay away until it's gone.'

It's not the first time parents have warned others about kissing babies.

The 'kiss of death' is term used to describe when a baby catches neonatal herpes from someone with a cold sore.

Neonatal herpes is extremely dangerous for young babies due to their immune systems not being strong enough to fight the virus.

Leo Aldcroft from Prestwich, Greater Manchester, tragically died this year at just 10 days old after catching the virus from his mother.

====== 1735 ========

AI COULD PREDICT WHICH PATIENTS REQUIRE EMERGENCY TREATMENT BY ANALYSING A PERSON’S MEDICAL HISTORY

Artificial intelligence may determine which hospital patients need emergency care.

That's according to research from the University of Oxford's George Institute for Global Health, which suggests scanning electronic health records could accurately flag-up priority cases.

The data surveyed 4.6 million patients from 1985 to 2015 via the UK's Clinical Practice Research Datalink.

Their findings, published in the PLOS Medicine journal, mean health officials could effectively monitor a patient's need and avoid unplanned admissions, which are a major source of healthcare spending.

Artificial intelligence: Scanning e-records may determine which hospital patients need emergency care - and which do not, saving the NHS huge sums of money

'Our findings show that with large datasets which contain rich information about individuals, machine learning models outperform one of the best conventional statistical models,' said Fatemeh Rahimian, former data scientist at The George Institute UK, who led the research.

'We think this is because machine learning models automatically capture and "learn" from interactions between the data that we were not previously aware of.'

A wide range of factors was taken into account for each scan, including age, sex, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, family history, lifestyle factors, diseases, medication and marital status, as well as the time since first diagnosis, last use of the health system and latest laboratory tests.

By using more variables combined with information about their timing, the machine learning models were found to provide a more robust prediction of the risk of emergency hospital admission than any models used previously.

'There were over 5.9 million recorded emergency hospital admissions in the UK in 2017, and a large proportion of them were avoidable,' Rahimian said.

'We wanted to provide a tool that would enable healthcare workers to accurately monitor the risks faced by their patients, and as a result make better decisions around patient screening and proactive care that could help reduce the burden of emergency admissions.'

Over £200 million is spent treating patients for unplanned admissions owing to diabetes emergencies with an average cost per patient of £4,477, say Medical Technology Group

The study comes just weeks after an NHS hospital trust became the first to use AI robots as secretaries in an effort to cut costs.

Ipswich Hospital, run by East Suffolk and North Essex NHS Trust, has 'employed' three virtual workers to free up staff from 'mundane and repetitive tasks', such as submitting scans and blood test results.

This is thought to allow real medical secretaries more time to focus on patient care, with the system being eight times more productive than human staff, the trust claims.

The system, which is run by a computer, has been in place since July and has saved more than 500 hours of work, according to the trust's deputy director of ICT Darren Atkins.

Built by the automation technology company Thoughtonomy, the software monitors incoming referrals from GPs throughout the day.

It deciphers the reason for referral and supporting information, such as blood test results.

The robots then put all this information in a single document, which is flagged to the lead consultant for review.

====== 1736 ========

JOHN NAISH REVEALS HOW YOUR AMAZING BODY ADAPTS TO THE BIG FREEZE

The human body adapts superbly to chilly weather in a number of surprising ways

Temperatures are plummeting this week with snow and sleet forecast soon. Thankfully, the human body adapts superbly to chilly weather in a number of surprising ways.

Here, JOHN NAISH explains the wide-ranging effects that the cold has on us and how we deal with them . . .

NASAL ALARM CALL

Up To 90 per cent of us get runny noses when it’s cold. The medical term is ‘cold-induced rhinitis’ (or ‘skier’s nose’ as it’s also known since it particularly affects fans of winter sports).

It is an inconvenient result of our bodies doing their best to keep our lungs from freezing.

Nerves inside the nose sense cold air and stimulate warming bloodflow and a rush of mucus that turns the chilly inhaled air steamily humid.

By the time it gets to the back of our nose it’s been heated to 26c, so it won’t freeze lung cells.

Studies indicate that our nose can produce up to 400ml of mucus a day in freezing conditions. That’s usually too much, as nature overcompensates to be on the safe side (it certainly beats having our lungs freeze).

The result is an annoyingly drippy nose. Decongestant drugs can stop this, but they also inhibit this vital bodily defence.

That’s why it’s always best to carry a hanky.

Up To 90 per cent of us get runny noses when it’s cold. The medical term is ‘cold-induced rhinitis’ (stock image)

Studies indicate that our nose can produce up to 400ml of mucus a day in freezing conditions

CRACKING A SMILE

Take pity on the lips, which are exposed to freezing weather without being covered in the body’s usual thick protective layer called the stratum corneum — which is comprised of dead skin cells that form a tough barrier between the environment and the lower layers of the skin.

It means they are kiss-sensitive and lusciously rosy. But their lack of protection often comes at a painful cost — chapped lips, or, as doctors call it, cheilitis.

When the weather turns cold and there is less humidity in the air, our lips become dry and crack-prone.

To make matters worse, when lips feel dry in biting cold winds, you probably have an urge to lick them — which slathers them in digestive enzymes that break down their skin covering — making them crack and chap further.

Dermatologists at America’s respected Mayo Clinic advise using lip balm that doesn’t contain irritants such as fragrances or dyes.

What’s more, crucially, you should apply balm only to clean lips — if you lick them beforehand, the balm simply locks in the destructive saliva.

When the weather turns cold and there is less humidity in the air, our lips become dry and crack-prone (stock image)

ICY TEARS

When we are standing in a freezing wind, our eyes can become all blurry with tears.

It’s more than just a nuisance if we are running or cycling — it can be downright dangerous. But why does this happen? This is another protective physical mechanism — in this case to stop eyes becoming painfully, damagingly dry.

In freezing temperatures, an oily substance — meibum — that helps to form the outermost layer of the wet film over our eyes becomes too thick and stiff to spread evenly across the eye surface. As a result, eyes can become unlubricated and painful. To compensate, the tear ducts go into overdrive. In the long run, this protects the eyes, though the immediate short-term effect is to make the world go blurry.

When we are standing in a freezing wind, our eyes can become all blurry with tears (stock image)

WRAP IT UP

Scientists have often blamed catching colds on the fact that in chilly weather, people tend to huddle together in fusty rooms, enabling cold germs to spread more easily.

But three years ago, research by Yale University showed that cold viruses have evolved to become more infectious when the body is chilled.

The study showed that rhinoviruses, the most common cause for colds, are better able to reproduce at temperatures just below the body’s normal 37c.

The body is also less efficient at releasing immune-system proteins called interferons when the cells in our nose, in which they are produced, are cold. So wrapping a scarf around the nose might not stop us breathing in cold viruses, but it could keep the nose snug enough to fight them off.

Three years ago, research by Yale University showed that cold viruses have evolved to become more infectious when the body is chilled (stock image)

PENNY WISE

Researchers who asked men to go out in cold weather found their need to urinate doubled when exposed to cold air.

However, after an hour their bodies adjusted and that desire to pass water abated, according to Helsinki University scientists. Doctors call this ‘cold-induced diuresis’. No one has explained it definitively, but the Finns suggest the cold may make blood vessels constrict to keep the blood warm inside our body’s core away from our skin. But this constriction of the blood vessels also raises blood pressure.

Our kidneys therefore try to lower blood pressure by siphoning fluid out of the body and into the bladder.

WINTER BLUES

Why can cold weather make you feel glum and antisocial?

Why can cold weather make you feel glum and antisocial? The emotional link with cold is deeply embedded in everyday language, such as being ‘given the cold shoulder’, receiving ‘icy glares’ and a ‘frosty reception’.

But our mood can change dependent on temperature.

Yale University psychologists have found that people playing games which require co-operation are significantly more likely to trust each other if they are warm, rather than chilly.

Results of a brain-scanning experiment conducted from tests in 2013 have helped to explain why this happens. Dr Tristen Inagaki, a psychological researcher at the University of Pittsburgh, placed volunteers in an MRI scanner while they were asked either to read loving letters from friends and family or to hold warming packs in their hands.

In both situations, the same two areas of their brain lit up in response: the vental striatum, which is associated with enjoying positive emotions, as well as the middle insula, which is linked with feelings of trust, attachment and reward. Scientists suggest that this cross-wiring is no accident, as babies may be programmed to associate warmth with comfort and hugs and, alternatively, cold with life-threatening neglect.

It’s unsurprising, therefore that researchers found that chronically lonely people tend to take far more hot baths and showers than normal. The heat seems to take away their pangs of isolation —even if there is only a rubber duck for company.

Yale University psychologists have found that people playing games which require co-operation are significantly more likely to trust each other if they are warm, rather than chilly (stock image)

‘BLIZZARD BLOAT’

Doctor Andrew Higginson, an animal behaviourist at the University of Exeter, says that cold winter weather causes humans to have ‘subconscious urges to overeat’.

Medics call the phenomenon ‘blizzard bloat’, because they see patients piling on pounds during particularly harsh winters.

Dr Higginson believes there is an evolutionary explanation: it’s all about survival.

In the journal Proceedings Of The Royal Society, he explains: ‘Storing fat is an insurance against the risk of failing to find food, which for pre-Industrial Age humans was most likely in winter.’

While hardy outdoor types and penny-pinching householders might argue that shivering burns up calories and keeps us slim, the scientific evidence says otherwise — for keeping the thermostat turned up at home does seem to keep our fingers away from foods such as chocolate.

According to research carried out at Stirling University, it seems that people who keep their household temperature above 23c have on average significantly lower BMI levels than people who keep their homes below 19c.

====== 1737 ========

MORE MILLENNIALS ARE MOVING BACK HOME - AND IT’S MAKING EVERYONE DEPRESSED, STUDIES FIND

More adult millennials are moving home to save money, and its making them more depressed, new research reveals.

And it's making their parents pretty miserable too, according to other recent research.

A full third of young adults in the US live with their parents. In fact, millennial men and women are more likely to live with mom and dad than in any other living arrangement.

It might be a good way to save money for those still suffering the aftershocks of the Great Recession - but it can be seriously damaging to mental health, a new study conducted by German scientists found.

Like John C Reilly's (left) and Will Ferrell's (right) characters in the film Stepbrothers, about a third of American Millennials live with their parents - and it may be making the whole household depressed, studies suggest

In past generations, the archetype of the young adult living at home was someone who simply never left (think: Matthew McConaughey in Failure to Launch, Will Ferrell and John C Reilly in Step Brothers, or Tony Hale as Buster Bluth in Arrested Development).

In pop culture, these characters were portrayed as slackers, dead beats, or simply spoiled adult children who never really embraced the 'adult' part.

The story arc is a little more complicated for many millennials who have increasingly found themselves living back at home after moving out years before.

The so-called Great Recession that followed the 2008 rupture of the housing bubble has become a defining moment for the millennial generation.

More millennials are more educated than previous generations - just as their parents had hoped - but they flooded the market.

Suddenly, there were fewer well-paid jobs and more overqualified candidates.

Financial independence - let alone, success - became harder to come by, and young adults brought up on diet rich in opportunity, higher education and encouragement to achieve but lacking in menial labor were left stunned and stunted.

Economically speaking, the potential benefits of moving back in with one's parents are hard to ignore.

According to the US Census Bureau, median monthly rent is $1,012. That means that if you moved back in with your parents for two years and just kept that cash for yourself, you could save up $24,000.

But it might come at a serious cost to your mental health, according to the new research from the Max Planck Institute.

'We know a lot about the reasons why young adults boomerang back to their parents’ homes, but there’s almost no research on how it affects their mental health,' said study author Dr Jennifer Caputo.

Though she is based in Germany, Dr Caputo was particularly interested in this phenomenon in American households.

She looked at data on 20,000 young adults. Data have been collected about this cohort since they were in 7th to 12th grade, starting in the mid-1990s, including questions about their living arrangements between 2000 to 2008.

Members of the group - now aged 24-30 - often wound up back at home.

This was especially true for young men and minority people, who were more likely to live with one or more of their parents than were white or female members of the cohort.

Those who lived on their own were more likely to have the hallmarks of being fully-fledged adults. They were more likely to have their finances in order, have a job and to be married.

People who had moved back in with their parents were most likely to be moving backward in other ways, too.

Economic and social independence are hallmarks of a successful transition to adulthood, and residential independence is highly valued. Not achieving these goals might create feelings of failure Dr Jennifer Caputo, Max Planck sociologist and study author

Often, they had experienced personal or professional setbacks, like break-ups or layoffs.

Moving home may have seemed, for these young adults, like a way to inject some stability and support into their lives, but the new study showed that they just became more likely to sink into depression.

'Economic and social independence are hallmarks of a successful transition to adulthood, and residential independence is highly valued,' Dr Caputo said.

'Not achieving these goals might create feelings of failure.'

And its not just the (adult) children who suffer. When they return to the nest, their parents tend to fall into depressions too.

Earlier this year, researchers in the UK - where about a quarter of young adults live at home - found that when adult children lived with their parents for their own benefits (rather than to take care of aging family members), the parents' quality of life started to decline.

Measured on quality of life scale that ranged from 12 to 48, parents whose kids came back to roost rated their quality of live 0.8 points lower once they regained a roommate, according to the London School of Economics research.

That might not sound like much, but its about equivalent to the effects of age-related disabilities that make basic functions like dressing themselves or walking around harder.

So an adult child's return can really upset the balance of things, and make everyone miserable.

But Dr Caputo suspects it doesn't have to be that way.

'While I can’t test this directly with my data, based on interview studies and ruling out other explanations, I think a strong possibility is that they are feeling disappointed in themselves along with some amount of social stigma,' she told Daily Mail Online in emailed comments.

'Assuming this is true, I think spreading awareness that moving back in with parents at some period in young adulthood is now actually VERY common, and even can be a smart decision to make since it does often help young people to get their footing financially, would help reduce depression associated with boomeranging and reduce social stigma.'

As for parents, they might be a bit relieved if their children weren't going through hardships, but they'd still rather have their independence back, according to the previous study on their attitudes.

====== 1738 ========

WOMEN IN THEIR 70S SHOULD BE OFFERED BREAST SCREENING, SCIENTISTS SAY

Women in their 70s and beyond should continue to have routine breast screening because their risk of getting the cancer rises with age, scientists have urged.

Women in the UK currently stop being invited to routine screening when they reach their 70th birthday, and a leading charity has warned many are 'left in the dark' afterwards.

But there is a 'considerable incidence' of breast cancer among women over 75, experts say – and almost half of cases in the UK (48 per cent) are in women over 65.

Experts say the benefits of screening women over the age of 75 would outweigh any disadvantages because of the scans' life-saving potential.

Women between the ages of 50 and 70 are invited to routine mammograms every three years in the UK, but 25 per cent of breast cancer cases happen over the age of 75 – a recent study claimed the benefits of continuing screening would outweigh any disadvantages (stock image)

Researchers from the Elizabeth Wende Breast Center in New York analysed results from 763,256 mammography exams for their research.

They found out of 3,944 patients diagnosed with breast cancer from the scans, 616 of them were among women aged 75 or over – 16 per cent.

This was despite them making up a 'relatively small percentage' of the scans.

And Cancer Research UK data shows 25 per cent of breast cancer cases occur in women over the age of 75.

'Our findings provide important data demonstrating that there is value in screening women over 75 because there is a considerable incidence of breast cancer,' said Dr Stamatia Destounis, who ran the study.

The NHS currently invites women to routine screening every three years between the ages of 50 and 70.

The American Cancer Society in the US recommends women are screened between the ages of 45 and 75.

HOW DOES NHS BREAST CANCER SCREENING WORK? Women in the UK are invited for routine breast screening on the NHS every three years between the ages of 50 and 70. The NHS is trialling extending this to between 47 and 73, and women can continue to have free screening after this age, but it falls to them to arrange it with their doctor or local screening unit. The routine screening is separate from screening done if women or their doctors have any concerns – any woman who is worried they might have breast cancer should see a doctor. Women who are at particularly high risk – such as those with a family history of breast cancer or a genetic disposition towards the disease – may have screening more often or at different ages. Breast screening scans are two X-rays of each breast which are done without clothing covering them. The procedure can be uncomfortable but each scan only takes a few minutes. Results are usually sent to the patient and their GP within a fortnight. Source: NHS

Once women pass the routine screening age the responsibility falls to them to arrange the mammogram scans with their doctor.

'We regularly hear from women on our helpline who have been left in the dark about routine mammograms continuing past 70, when invitations to attend stop,' said Dr Emma Pennery, clinical director at Breast Cancer Care.

'They think they are no longer at risk of breast cancer. In fact, breast cancer risk increases with age and older women can request to continue routine screening up to any age.

'Screening remains our best tool for detecting breast cancer at the earliest possible stage so it’s crucial that every woman eligible has all the information to make an empowered decision about whether to attend.'

In Dr Destounis's study, as well as one in six of the cancers being diagnosed in women over the age of 75, a majority of them – 63 per cent – were grade two or three, meaning they are fast-growing and spread easily.

These types of cancer need urgent treatment or they can spread to other parts of the body and become life-threatening.

Dr Destounis added: 'Most of the tumors found in this age group were invasive, and almost all of these patients – 98 percent – underwent surgery.

'The benefits of screening yearly after age 75 continue to outweigh any minimal risk of additional diagnostic testing.'

She recommended women in good health should continue getting screened into their late 70s and beyond.

Mammogram scans are crucial to spotting cancer early because they can detect changes in the breast up to two years before a doctor can feel them.

The ages at which screening should be offered were called into question when, in 2009, the United States Preventive Services Task Force released guidelines stating there was not enough evidence to assess the benefits of screening over-75s.

Not all experts agree routine screening into old age is beneficial.

Georgina Hill, from Cancer Research UK, said: 'Breast screening can save lives by detecting breast cancer early, but it will also mean cancers are detected and treated that may never have caused a problem in a women’s lifetime.

'Overall, the evidence suggests that for women over 70 these harms outweigh the benefits.

'But women over 70 can still take part in screening if they want to. It’s important that all women have clear and reliable information when deciding if they want to take part.

'Although breast cancer risk increases with age, women of all ages should get to know what’s normal for their breasts and see their doctor if they notice an unusual or persistent change.

'It’s probably not cancer, but if it is, finding it early can make a real difference.'

Dr Destounis and her team's findings will be presented next week at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America.

====== 1739 ========

CHILDREN'S BODY WEIGHT 'IS GENETICALLY INFLUENCED AND NOT THE FAULT OF A POOR DIET'

A child's body weight is genetically influenced and not the fault of parents feeding them a poor diet.

That's according to new research from King's College London and UCL, which challenges the idea that a child's weight largely reflects the way their upbringing.

Instead, parents appear to adopt feeding styles in response to their children's natural body weight, which is largely genetically influenced.

The finding comes just a few months after the annual National Child Measurement Programme revealed that 22,000 children leave primary school severely obese.

Food for thought: A child's body weight is genetically influenced and not the fault of parents feeding them a poor diet, say experts at King's College London and UCL

In the study, which was published in PLOS Genetics, the researchers looked at the relationship between a child's genetic predisposition towards weight and their parent's feeding practices.

Lead author, Saskia Selzam from the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience at King's College London, says: 'We found that parents whose children were genetically predisposed to have a lower weight were more pressuring of them to eat, and those parents whose children were genetically predisposed to have a higher weight were more restrictive over how much and what they were allowed to eat.

'Our findings suggest that parents develop their feeding practices in response to their child's natural tendency towards a higher or lower weight.

'The way a parent feeds their child may also influence their child's weight to some extent, but our results challenge the prevailing view that parental behaviour is the major influence on childhood weight.'

The study included data from around 4,500 twin pairs who were born in England and Wales between 1994-1996 from the Twins Early Development Study, which is funded by the Medical Research Council.

By comparing twin pairs, the researchers found that many of the genes that influence individual differences in weight also influence parental feeding behaviour.

DNA, not diet: 'These results show that parents are not the 'full story' when it comes to a child's weight, and blaming parents for being too controlling about feeding may be unfair.'

Individual genetic scores were also calculated which reflected each child's predisposition to be of a higher or lower weight based on DNA differences linked to body weight.

These 'polygenic' scores were associated with parental feeding style and the association remained unchanged after accounting for genetic and environmental factors that are shared within a family.

Even within families where non-identical twins differed in their genetic predisposition, parents were more restrictive with the twin who had a tendency to be of a higher weight and were more pressuring of the twin who had a tendency to be of a lower weight.

Senior author, Dr Clare Llewellyn from UCL, says: 'These results show that parents are not the 'full story' when it comes to a child's weight, and blaming parents for being too controlling about feeding may be unfair.

'But it is unclear whether these natural 'go to' strategies are helpful, harmful, or of no consequence to a child's weight in the long run.

'Large-scale randomised controlled trials which follow children from early life to later childhood are needed to test if a parent's feeding practices can influence their child's eating behaviour and weight.'

====== 1740 ========

A HUG COULD KILL HIM - BUT THIS 15-YEAR-OLD REFUSES TO GIVE IN

Despite being born with an incredibly rare condition that causes his skin to blister and tear with the slightest touch – John Hudson Dilgen is inspiring people with his motivational speaking.

John, 15, was born with Epidermolysis bullosa, a condition that leaves him in constant pain and affects only one in every 50,000 children in the United States.

On a daily basis, John endures the excruciating ordeal of having every inch of his raw, blistering skin wrapped in bandages to lower the risk of disastrous consequences from something as simple as a hug or a pat on the back.

Around 95 percent of John's body is covered in open wounds.

But in defiance of the excruciating pain and discomfort, John, who lives in Staten Island, New York, tries his best to help other children with the condition by raising awareness online and organizing charitable events.

John Hudson Dilgen who has the rare genetic disease Epidermolysis Bullosa (EB) with his parents John and Faye at home in Staten Island, New York

Last year, John and his family successfully raised the money to buy him a brand new 'special' bathtub (pictured) that has MicroSilk – something that researchers have shown improves the growth of tissue. But it's excruciatingly painful

When he has to take a bath, he knows it's going to be painful and yet he knows he needs to do it

'When I got into motivational speaking, at first, I didn't think of it as that,' John told Barcroft TV.

'To me, it was just about talking the truth. I felt like I had to tell the truth about kids who live with EB.

'It's more important than anything else, to let other people know what's really taking place when you live with this condition.

'EB has definitely affected my whole life. I basically need help with everything.

'Any type of force or any friction to my skin causes a big wound.'

John takes a variety of medications twice a day, which includes probiotics and sodium.

EB sufferers - only one in 50,000 of kids in the US - are known as having 'butterfly skin' because their skin is so fragile it could rip with one touch. John has to be wrapped in bandages all the time to prevent rips

John's nurse Nicole Collins, who helps to bathe John and treat his wounds every day, said she gets emotional speaking about him because he endures such pain but he's a fighter

WHAT IS EPIDERMOLYSIS BULLOSA? Epidermolysis bullosa (EB) is a general term used to describe a group of rare, inherited disorders that cause the skin to become very fragile. Any trauma or friction causes patients' skin to blister. It affects around one in every 50,000 people worldwide. Around 40 per cent of sufferers do not survive the first year and most do not live beyond five years old. The three main types of the disorder include: EB simplex - where blistering occurs in the upper layer of skin. This affects 70 per cent of sufferers

Dystrophic EB - where blistering occurs in the upper layer beneath the skin's surface, which affects 25 per cent of patients

Junctional EB - where blistering occurs in the lower layer of the inner skin, which is usually the most severe form of the condition Most cases are obvious from birth. EB occurs due to faulty genes, which can be inherited or occur spontaneously. There is no cure. Treatment focuses on relieving pain and treating complications, such as infections or skin cancer. Source: NHS Choices and the National Organization for Rare Disorders

He requires 24-hour care from his mother and father, Faye and John Dilgen, and his nurse, Nicole Collins.

'I have a checklist of everything that John takes each morning,' Faye said.

'He has to have Dilaudid every four hours during the day for the pain.'

John's father, John Dilgen, added: 'We got educated very quickly on what this was all about.

'It was pretty devastating in the beginning.

'Even now, when he has to take a bath, he knows it's going to be painful and yet he knows he needs to do it.

'Every time I think about it, it still upsets me.'

Just last year, John and his family successfully raised the money to buy him a brand new 'special' bathtub that has MicroSilk – something that researchers have shown improves the growth of tissue.

The MicroSilk bath adds up to 70 percent more oxygen into the water than regular tap water, creating little bubbles.

To most, it sounds good - comforting, even. But for John, even something that is designed to nurture his skin is unbelievably painful.

'When I take a bath, the pain is just horrible,' he explains. 'I mean, I hate having to get in the water. But I know it's going to help my skin, so I have to just do it.'

His nurse Nicole Collins, who helps to bathe John and treat his wounds every day, said it never gets easier.

'I feel like the bad one, because I give him his bath every day. But he needs it,' she said.

'I get emotional when I talk about John, because he's in a lot of pain.'

Nothing holding him back: John is active with many hobbies, refusing to let EB overtake him. Here, he's pictured with his knife collection and gifted Purple Heart with his mother Faye

John's father, John (right) said: 'We got educated very quickly on what this was all about. It was pretty devastating in the beginning'

She adds, tearing up: 'John's personality is amazing for someone in his situation.

'Even if he is in pain, he'll still try to be positive. He's got a really kind soul.'

With the help of The Stephen Siiler Tunnel to Tower Foundation, a charity that provides specialized homes for people with disabilities, the family has now got a new home which has been adapted for John's needs - including a treatment table, elevator and ramp enabling him to get around easier.

Despite the terrible hardship John is faced with every single day of his life, he still remains the shining light of his family.

Despite the terrible hardship John is faced with every single day of his life, he still remains the shining light of his family

Faye said: 'John has a very outgoing personality. He is very friendly, he is very funny.'

And even now, John remains determined to carry on raising awareness to other children around the world who live with EB.

John said: 'I usually get to meet a lot of people with EB because we hold a lot of events to raise money for research.

'I get to tell the truth about what's going on with EB children. It helps to get the word out to people.

'And I usually get a pretty positive response from people.

'Even though I have this condition, I hope that someday I can grow up and be like my parents. I want to do something where I am helping other people.'

====== 1741 ========

NEW ALZHEIMER'S SHOT IS SAFE IN MICE AND COULD 'CUT CASES IN HALF,' SCIENTISTS CLAIM

An Alzheimer's vaccine may halt the build-up of both kinds of toxic plaques and tangles that 'clog' dementia sufferer's brains, a new study suggests. `

Scientists at the University of Texas, Southwestern, are developing a shot that uses DNA from Alzheimer's proteins to teach the immune system to fight these compounds and keep them from accumulating in the brain.

Their vaccine is not the first attempt to slow Alzheimer's progression this way, but the UT Southwestern team's dose is delivered in the skin, and does not appear to cause the dangerous brain swelling that other shots have.

The researchers believe that they are closing in on human trials for their preventive shot.

A new DNA vaccine for Alzheimer's has proven safe in mice and the scientists say it could cut the number of future cases in half, a new study reveals

Every 65 seconds, another American develops Alzheimer's, and the number of sufferers is expected to more than triple by 2050.

In the last several decades, we've begun to discover more of the risk factors for the degenerative brain disease, but there is no cure, no way to prevent Alzheimer's from developing and only minimal treatments for its symptoms.

Primary targets Alzheimer's therapies include two types of proteins: beta-amyloid and tau.

As we age, our biological process start to get at little sloppier.

So beta-amyloid proteins start getting misfolded into lumpy shapes that stick together and interrupt neural connections.

Similarly, tau proteins, which are stringier in shape, start getting tangled.

These two spots of neurological messiness are hallmarks of the development of Alzheimer's, so scientists believe that if they can slow or stop these inelegant structures from forming, they might be able to slow - or even stop - dementia, too.

Dr Roger Rosenberg, founding director of the Alzheimer's Disease Center at University of Texas Southwestern is among those trying to boost the immune system's power to attack these debilitating plaques and tangles.

The new study, he says, 'is the culmination of a decade of research that has repeatedly demonstrated that this vaccine can effectively and safely target in animal models what we think may cause Alzheimer's disease.

'I believe we're getting close to testing this therapy in people.'

The vaccine contains a DNA coding for a segment of beta-amyloid - which also also reduces tau - in mice modeled to have Alzheimer's disease.

Its DNA contents act like a training target for the immune system which learns to recognize the two proteins and attack them as they start to build up.

A similar line of work, undertaken by another institution in the early 2000s, appeared to effectively arm the immune system against the plaques and tangles, but it caused a whole new set of problems, as the immune response it triggered caused dangerous brain swelling.

The new vaccine seems to activate the immune system, but in a different way that circumvents the swelling, and may be safe for humans, according to the new findings, published in the journal Alzheimer's Research and Therapy.

Dr Rosenberg's lab demonstrated a similar response in rabbits and monkeys in previous work.

That helped to put the vaccine he and his team are developing on a shortlist of promising antibody treatments for Alzheimer's disease.

The new shot teaches the immune system to target beta-amyloid plaques (pink) and tau tangles (brown) in the brain

The UT Southwestern scientists theorized that they could prevent the violent brain-swelling reaction by introducing the amyloid DNA into the body in different way.

So, in stead of injecting the DNA into the test mice's muscles, they delivered the jab more superficially, to the skin.

The shot turns the skin cells into factories to produce a three-molecule chain of beta-amyloid.

Recognizing an invader, the immune system investigates and starts churning out antibodies designed to fight beta-amyloid, which, as it happens, also indirectly target tau.

This essentially means that the body is armed and ready to attack the Alzheimer's plaques and tangles before they start to shut down the brain.

The research team tried their vaccine out on four groups of mice bred to develop the neurodegenerative disease, varying in size from 15 to 24 animals.

Remarkably, the vaccinated mice saw up to a 40 percent reduction in beta-amyloid plaques, and a reduction of as much as 50 percent in their tau tangles.

The injected skin cells make a three-molecule chain of beta-amyloid, and the body responds by producing antibodies that inhibit the build-up of amyloid and indirectly also of tau.

The latest study - consisting of four groups of between 15 and 24 mice each - shows the vaccine prompted a 40 per cent reduction in beta-amyloid and up to a 50 per cent reduction in tau, with no adverse immune response.

If today's prevailing theories of Alzheimer's disease are right, the single vaccine could have tremendous value to those suffering dementia or genetically predisposed to it.

Other scientists are working on producing synthetic antibodies against amyloid and tau, a method called passive immunization.

But Dr Rosenberg insists that a vaccine that prompts the body to make its own antibodies (as his does) - or active immunization - would be most effective.

Because a patient's own body acts as the antibody factory, active immunization would likely be cheaper and, more accessible and capable of producing more diverse antibodies, instead of the bespoke ones made in the lab.

If the active vaccine continues to prove safe and effective, it could alter the burden of Alzheimer's on future generations.

Study senior author Dr Doris Lambracht-Washington, said: 'If the onset of the disease could be delayed by even five years, that would be enormous for the patients and their families.

'The number of dementia cases could drop by half.'

Dr Rosenberg added: 'The longer you wait, the less effect it will probably have.

'Once those plaques and tangles have formed, it may be too late.'

====== 1742 ========

NEW MRI BRAIN SCAN TECHNIQUE COULD PREDICT UP TO 95% OF ALZHEIMER'S CASES

MRI brain scans may be more effective than common clinical tests at predicting a person's risk of developing Alzheimer's disease, according to a new study.

Alzheimer's disease is a progressive, irreversible brain disorder that destroys memory and thinking skills - and the number of people being diagnosed is soaring.

But it remains elusive: the disease cannot technically be diagnosed during life (only in an autopsy) and scientists haven't been able to say for certain what a brain destined for Alzheimer's looks like.

Currently, doctors are able to spot about 70 percent of cases early using questionnaires to measure cognition, and genetic tests for the gene APOE4, which is linked to 50 percent of Alzheimer's cases (but is also detected in healthy people).

However, a new study, published today by a team at Washington University School of Medicine, found tell-tale symptoms that appeared on up to 95 percent of MRI scans of future Alzheimer's patients before the disease set in.

The small study of 61 patients at Washington University suggests a technique that, if successful, would be a better alternative to the current questionnaire screening method

If the finding can be replicated in a bigger group (this study involved 61 people) it could pave the way to the first ever concrete screening technique for Alzheimer's, which is infecting more and more people at an alarming rate.

Though 70 percent sounds like a fairly high accuracy rate for the current tests, Alzheimer's is becoming more and more common. Missing 30 percent of cases is a huge margin of error in the grand scheme of things.

The new MRI scans conducted at Washingotn, using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) to assess the condition of the brain's white matter, were found to be between 89 and 95 percent accurate.

'Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of dementia in the world and is expected to increase globally, and especially in the US, as the population gets older,' the study's lead author Dr Cyrus Raji, assistant professor of radiology at the school's Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, said.

'As we develop new drug therapies and study them in trials, we need to identify individuals who will benefit from these drugs earlier in the course of the disease.

'With DTI you look at the movement of water molecules along white matter tracts, the telephone cables of brain.

'When these tracts are not well connected, cognitive problems can result.'

He said DTI provides different measures of white matter integrity, including fractional anisotropy (FA), a measure of how well water molecules move along white matter tracts.

A higher FA value indicates that water is moving in a more orderly fashion along the tracts, while a lower value means that the tracts are likely damaged.

For the new study, Dr Raji and his colleagues set out to quantify differences in DTI in people who decline from normal cognition or mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's dementia compared to controls who do not develop dementia.

They performed brain DTI scans on 61 people drawn from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative, a major study focusing on the progression of the disease.

About half of the patients went on to develop Alzheimer's, and DTI identified 'quantifiable differences' in the brains of those patients.

People who developed the disease had lower FA compared with those who didn't, suggesting white matter damage. They also had statistically significant reductions in certain frontal white matter tracts.

Dr Raji said: 'DTI performed very well compared to other clinical measures.

'Using FA values and other associated global metrics of white matter integrity, we were able to achieve 89 percent accuracy in predicting who would go onto develop Alzheimer's disease. The Mini-mental State Examination and APOE4 gene testing have accuracy rates of about 70 to 71 percent.'

The researchers conducted a more detailed analysis of the white matter tracts in about 40 of the study participants.

Dr Raji said that, among those patients, the technique achieved 95 percent accuracy.

He said many people already receive MRI as part of their care, so DTI could add 'significant value' to the exam without substantially increasing the costs.

Dr Raji said MRI measures of white matter integrity could speed interventions that slow the course of the disease or even delay its onset.

He added: 'Research shows that Alzheimer's disease risk can be reduced by addressing modifiable risk factors like obesity and diabetes.

'With early detection, we can enact lifestyle interventions and enlist volunteers into drug trials earlier.'

The findings are due to be presented at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America (RSNA) in Chicago next week.

====== 1743 ========

VIDEO SHOWS THE SPEED A WOUND HEALS WITH RECOVERY BEING SURPRISINGLY FASTER DURING THE DAY

A video shows the astonishing speed a wound heals, with scientists being surprised to discover recovery is faster during the day than at night-time.

The pace cuts and scratches heal is thought to be controlled by the body's 'master clock' in the brain.

The researchers, from the University of Cambridge, expected recovery to largely take place during sleep, as this is when the body recharges.

However, they believe their findings actually demonstrate an evolutionary advantage, with wounds healing faster during the day as this is when they are most likely to occur.

This could open up a new door of medical treatments, such as scheduling operations so they occur when the body's recovery mechanism peaks, they add.

The researchers analysed how skin cells, known as fibroblasts, respond depending on the time of day.

When we become wounded, fibroblasts rush to the affected area and produce protective proteins, such as collagen, to help rebuild damaged tissue.

Fibroblasts depend upon a protein called actin to fuel their migration to the injured site. The scientists believe it is actin that is influenced by the time of day.

To test this, the scientists examined fibroblasts in the lab by scratching skin cells at different times of the day and then examining them under a microscope.

Results suggested the cells that were injured under 'night' conditions healed slower than those damaged during the 'day'.

The researchers then repeated the experiment on mice and similarly found cuts heal faster if they occur during waking hours than those that take place while the animals are sleeping.

'We consistently see about a two-fold difference in wound healing speed between the body clock's day and night,' the authors wrote in the journal Science Translational Medicine.

'In both cells and mice, we can reset the tissue healing response by tricking the cells into thinking it's a different time of day.

'Such as by turning the lights on at night and off at different times of day for the mice or using body clock-altering drugs on cells in the lab.'

The researchers then analysed past data from patients with burns, and found those who suffered their injuries between 8pm and 8am took on average 60 per cent longer to heal than the wounds obtained during the day.

They believe this could lead to the development of different medical treatments that work around the body's master clock.

Respiratory clinician John Blaikley, from the University of Manchester, who was also involved in the study, said: 'Not only could novel drug targets be identified, but also the effectiveness of established therapies might be increased through changing what time of day they are given.'

====== 1744 ========

HERE'S WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW BEFORE GOING UNDER THE ROBO-KNIFE

First, you are strapped from the chest upwards on to the table, with your feet hoisted into stirrups. The table is swung down backwards, so you are tilted, head-down, at an angle of 45 degrees. Then a machine, known by some surgeons as ‘the 800lb gorilla’, can get to work.

It sounds so medieval, but this is the most modern of surgical techniques — robotic surgery. The extraordinary posture, known as the steep Trendelenburg, is necessary to position the patient precisely so the robot arms can reach inside them.

But this ‘precarious positioning’, as it has been described in the British Journal of Anaesthesia, demands significant care to protect patients.

Left in this position, often for up to four hours, they can develop complications including injuries to their cornea and nerve damage in their hands and feet, as well as dangerous build-ups of fluid in the brain and lungs and blood clots that can cause strokes, warned a study published last year by Imperial College London and the Royal Marsden Hospital.

Not perfect: Robotic surgery sounds like the ultimate in flawless, high-tech, 21st-century care, but it can cornea and nerve damage in their hands and feet, plus blood clots that cause strokes

To all this complexity, add the convolutions required for a surgeon to command his team through a highly challenging operation, ‘with his head immersed in a console’.

‘The rest of the medical staff is scattered, usually unable to see each other’s faces... for long stretches,’ warned researchers at Cornell University in the U.S. at a conference earlier this month.

This hampers effective teamwork, say the investigators, who spent two years watching robotic surgeries. ‘They definitely have to do more to overcome the challenges brought by the robot.’

Robotic surgery sounds like the ultimate in flawless, high-tech, 21st-century care — a whirring world of foolproof shiny machines performing intricate medical procedures with perfect precision.

But, in reality, it can be convoluted and time-consuming. And, make no mistake, controlling these machines requires enormous skill and training.

FLAILING ROBOT CAUSED PROBLEMS

The machines might be called ‘robots’, but they are entirely under the control of a potentially fallible human surgeon. And things can go horribly wrong.

This was tragically seen in the shocking case heard last week at an inquest into robotic heart surgery at the Freeman Hospital in Newcastle in February 2015.

The revelations about the death of father of three Stephen Pettitt, 69, following a disastrous operation performed by surgeon Karunakaran Sukumaran Nair, must surely call into question the use of surgical robots in the NHS.

The £1.7 million, U.S.-built machines, called Da Vinci robots, are already beset by controversy over whether they offer any real advantage over traditional human surgeons.

Shocking: The revelations about the death of father of three Stephen Pettitt, 69, following a disastrous operation performed by surgeon Karunakaran Sukumaran Nair, must surely call into question the use of surgical robots in the NHS

Now, evidence presented to the coroner has exposed the perilous way in which medics may use these vastly complex gadgets without exhaustive technical training and supervision.

Stephen, a retired music teacher, died of multiple organ failure after the failed procedure to repair a damaged heart valve. Stephen was slim and otherwise in sufficiently robust health to be considered a good candidate for the untested robotic technique, the first heart valve surgery in the UK to involve the Da Vinci robot.

But the procedure descended into a bloody morass of mistakes. Conditions in the operating theatre were tense and chaotic.

Mr Nair’s assisting surgeon, Thasee Pillay, told the coroner that, at one point, a nurse’s arms were knocked by the flailing robot.

The robot surgeon was ultimately abandoned after its viewing camera was blinded by blood from Stephen’s failing heart. Theatre staff tried to save him by performing conventional open-heart surgery. But it was too late, and he died a few days later.

Robotic surgery has been used increasingly in prostate cancer surgery since the early 2000s, but Stephen was not told the technique had never been tried on mitral heart valves before in the UK, which placed him at an increased risk of death.

Nor did the surgeon inform him that he was not properly trained.

For, as Mr Nair admitted at the inquest, when he undertook the operation, he’d not had one-to-one training on the use of the Da Vinci robot. He had only observed others and practised on it alone.

SURGEONS NEED PROPER TRAINING

He’d also missed a training session in Paris and another at his hospital because he was busy operating. He was said to have told a colleague that he ‘could have done with some more dry-run training’.

At the inquest, assisting surgeon Mr Pillay complained that communication with Mr Nair was disturbed by the sound from the robot and he had to shout when he realised that sutures were not being placed in ‘an organised fashion’ into the patient’s heart.

Mr Nair agreed with coroner Karen Dilks that it was ‘more likely than not’ that Stephen would have survived had conventional open-heart surgery been used. He no longer carries out robotic surgery.

The question is whether enough is being done to protect other patients.

Professor Naeem Soomro, director of robotic surgery at Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Trust, which runs the Freeman Hospital, said: ‘With Da Vinci surgery, the surgeon must undertake a series of dry lab and simulation courses before they can start operating, only under the supervision of a mentor.’

On its website, the trust hails itself as offering ‘the most comprehensive’ robotic surgery programme in the UK, conducting robotic surgery in six specialities. Professor Soomro said: ‘There has been a paradigm shift in our attitude; it has gone from “Why should it be done by robot?” to “Why shouldn’t it?” ’

Did you know? Shockingly, there are no legal requirements as to how surgeons should be trained to operate the machines or who should trial new operations and how

But such enthusiasm carries the risk of running far ahead of surgeons’ competence and of evidence to prove that robot surgery is either useful or safe in complex operations.

Shockingly, there are no legal requirements as to how surgeons should be trained to operate the machines or who should trial new operations and how.

In 2014, the European Commission’s RoboLaw project concluded surgeons must meet professional requirements for training in robotic surgery. But it was never stipulated how much training surgeons must receive.

Some studies have suggested that a surgeon must be involved in 100 robo-ops before they can be deemed proficient. But currently, training is being introduced across differing specialities piecemeal.

Greg Shaw, a consultant urological surgeon at University College London Hospitals NHS Trust, and director of the trust’s robotic urology training fellowship programme, says that he can’t understand how Mr Nair’s case came about. ‘I do a lot of robotic surgery — the robot is a specialised tool requiring training and I can’t imagine anyone working alone on the robot without them proving they know what they are doing,’ he says.

Mr Shaw adds that his specialism, urology, is the most advanced in terms of training and education in robotic surgery. ‘There is a defined process of robotic training in urology, with formal training programmes in place, a process where, until surgeons are deemed competent, they are allowed only to work with the robot under supervision.’

Even when surgeons are allowed to do the whole robotic operation, they ‘are supervised by mentors in the early stages of their independent practice’.

But not all specialisms are so advanced, he suggests. ‘The relevant authorities for other specialisms are in the process of drawing up training programmes.’

And herein lies a peril for developing new robotic procedures in the NHS, especially first-ever ops such as Stephen’s heart surgery. They involve heading into the unknown. The expected approach is to ensure anything new is ‘performed by teams of experts working in concert, with a series of small adaptations, rather than one major change, and on patients who understand what is being proposed,’ says Mr Shaw. Instead, numerous surgeons eager to operate Da Vinci robots are flying by the seat of their pants.

In January, analysts at GlobalData Healthcare warned that increasing numbers of surgeons are teaching themselves, often just by watching others do it.

Another concern is that the machine can go awry. A 2016 study in the journal PLOS One said that faults during robotic surgery include burnt and broken pieces of instruments falling into patients, electrical short circuits burning flesh and the robot’s computer and camera breaking down.

In more than a thousand cases, the whole system had to be switched off and restarted, or surgeons had to revert to conventional surgery or abandon the operation entirely.

MARCH OF THE £1.7 MILLION DA VINCI ROBOTS The words ‘robotic surgery’ might conjure up an image of a sleek machine making medical judgments — but the reality is slightly more cumbersome. The £1.7 million Da Vinci, the most commonly used robot, is more than 4ft wide and 6ft tall. And, far from making decisions, the robot is merely moving in accordance with the surgeon’s controls. It consists of a tower and separate console. The tower is positioned over the patient and has four arms — three hold specially adapted instruments such as scalpels, while the fourth contains the crucial 3D camera that acts as the surgeon’s eyes, relaying 3D images of what is going on inside the patient’s body. The surgeon sits at the console, which can be several feet from the patient. In front of the surgeon is a monitor with the images transmitted from the camera. The surgeon can twist and turn the robotic hands using either two joysticks or foot pedals. The idea is that the robot hands can move in ways a human surgeon never could. In this country, robots have been most commonly used in urology — for example, for prostate and bladder removal. However, they are also used for kidney removal, colorectal cancer, heart valve repair and hysterectomy.

Then there is the fundamental question as to whether expensive and complex robots are any better than human hands.

Consider the operation Stephen Pettitt was offered — mitral heart valve repair. In April, a study in The Journal of Thoracic Cardiovascular Surgery, which compared the outcomes of 142 patients who had robotic surgery with outcomes from conventional surgery, found that ‘more patients in the robotic group had serious complications’.

A similar picture emerged across all specialisms in a report in PLOS One in January: ‘Despite its higher costs, robot surgery does not result in statistically better outcomes...conventional surgery has significantly more favourable operation lengths and complication rates.’

Last week, coroner Karen Dilks warned that there ‘remains a risk of further deaths’ from robotic operations and said she would contact the Royal College of Surgeons and the Department of Health to ask them to consider whether national guidelines on training and practice should be brought in.

Meanwhile, the Royal College of Surgeons told Good Health: ‘It would be wholly unacceptable for any surgeon to perform an operation they have not fully trained for.

‘All NHS trusts have guidelines for performing innovative surgical techniques, as well as using new technologies, which trained surgeons are expected to follow as they expand their area of practice.’

Dr Andy Welch, medical director of Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Trust, says that following Stephen’s death, ‘the robotic heart programme was stopped and significant changes have been made’.

But Mr Shaw has this advice for anyone offered a robo-op: do your own research into the competence of the surgical staff before agreeing to it. ‘If people believe that the robot does the operation, then they are mistaken,’ he says.

‘These machines are not autonomous robots. The machines only perform the action that the surgeon instructs them to.’

====== 1745 ========

A FIFTH OF NHS HOSPITALS ARE FAILING TO TREAT THEIR PATIENTS ON TIME

Experts warn the NHS is going into winter 'on the back foot'

Wales hasn't hit its target for five years and all boards in N. Ireland are failing

This includes 16 English hospitals and three health boards in Scotland

29 of 157 hospital trusts and health boards have been missing targets for a year

A fifth of NHS hospital trusts and health boards across the UK have been named and shamed for failing to hit their treatment waiting times for an entire year.

A&E, cancer treatment, and non-emergency surgery waiting time targets are being missed and keeping patients waiting all over Britain.

And all parts of the UK are failing to hit waiting time targets on a national level and haven't met them for at least 12 months, figures have revealed.

The Royal College of Nursing today warned the health service is going into the winter 'on the back foot' because hospitals are already under so much pressure.

The NHS has failed to hit any of its national waiting time targets in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland for A&E, cancer treatment or non-urgent surgery for more than a year

Figures analysed by the BBC have revealed the health service is not only struggling under pressure in the winter but is showing signs of strain all year round.

Nationwide, waiting time performance is the worst it has been since the targets were introduced 10 years ago.

'We’ve all sadly become used to seeing TV pictures of patients waiting on trolleys in corridors in the cold winter months,' said Dame Donna Kinnair, acting chief executive of the Royal College of Nursing (RCN).

'But trolley waits have now become a summer problem too.

'This increased strain on the health service this summer will inevitably have a knock-on effect on services this winter, and means that the NHS is going into winter on the back foot.'

WHICH HOSPITALS AREN'T TREATING THEIR PATIENTS ON TIME? England Bradford Teaching Hospitals

Brighton and Sussex University Hospitals

East and North Hertfordshire

East Kent Hospitals

Guy's and St Thomas'

Hull and East Yorkshire Hospitals

Leeds Teaching Hospitals

Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells

Mid Essex Hospital Services

Northern Lincolnshire & Goole

Plymouth Hospitals

Taunton and Somerset

The Royal Wolverhampton

United Lincolnshire Hospitals

University College London Hospitals

Worcestershire Acute Hospitals Scotland Forth Valley

Greater Glasgow and Clyde

Lothian Wales Cardiff and Vale

Cwm Taf

Anuerin Bevan

Abertawe Bro Morgannwg

Betsi Cadwaladr Northern Ireland Belfast

South Eastern

Northern

Southern

Western

The health service is judged on the time it takes to treat patients in A&E, how long people have to wait for cancer treatment, and how long they have to wait for non-urgent surgeries like hip and knee replacements.

England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland all set their own targets for their branches of the NHS.

And the 29 hospital trusts and health boards failing to treat their patients on time have been named by the BBC.

The 16 out of 131 lagging behind in England are Bradford Teaching Hospitals, Brighton and Sussex University Hospitals, East and North Hertfordshire, East Kent, Guy's and St Thomas', Hull and East Yorkshire, Leeds Teaching Hospitals, Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells, Mid Essex Hospital Services, Northern Lincolnshire & Goole, Plymouth, Taunton and Somerset, The Royal Wolverhampton, United Lincolnshire Hospitals, University College London Hospitals, and Worcestershire Acute.

In Scotland, the Forth Valley, Greater Glasgow and Clyde, and Lothian health boards all missed their targets, of a total 14 boards.

Five out of seven health boards in Wales missed their targets: Cardiff and Vale, Cwm Taf, Anuerin Bevan, Abertawe Bro Morgannwg and Betsi Cadwaladr.

And all five of the Northern Irish health trusts missed their targets: Belfast, South Eastern, Northern, Southern and Western.

On a national level, the performance has been worse.

The last time any British country hit their target was Scotland in August 2017, and Wales has failed to hit any of the three for at least five years.

The chief executive of NHS Providers, Chris Hopson said: 'The pressure on A&E services and the knock-on impact this is having in other parts of the health and care system, coupled with higher levels of staff vacancies, will put services under significant strain this winter.'

Hospital leaders themselves have blamed rising numbers of patients.

Chief operation officer of Plymouth Hospitals – one of the 16 failing to hit targets – pointed the finger at 'ever increasing demand'.

While the Royal Wolverhampton's Gwen Nuttall added: 'Our hospitals, along with others regionally and nationally, are incredibly busy.'

A Department of Health and Social Care spokesperson said: 'Despite an extra 840,000 people going to A&E, hardworking NHS staff have seen nearly half a million more people within four hours over the last 12 months than compared to last year.

'We have given the NHS £1.6billion this year to improve performance and cut waiting times, as well as £420million in additional winter support to redevelop A&Es, improve emergency care and help patients get home quicker.'

====== 1746 ========

WATCH HOW A SCAN TAKES 3D IMAGES OF THE WHOLE HUMAN BODY AT ONCE IN A WORLD FIRST

A medical scanner can take 3D images of the entire body at once for the first time ever.

A combination of two commonly-used scanners - positron emission tomography (PET) and X-ray computed tomography (CT) - the EXPLORER scanner offers a fascinating insight to the inner workings of the human body.

The machine produces a 3D video that could help diagnose disease, track the spread of cancer or infections, and develop new medicines by creating a whole-body diagnostic scan in 20-30 seconds.

Professors Simon Cherry and Ramsey Badawi, from the University of California, Davis, have spent millions of dollars and more than a decade building the machine.

Scroll down for video

The EXPLORER scanner is the first of its kind to be able to scan the entire body in 3D in one go (pictured: A front view of the human body), and its inventors claim it is faster and higher quality than existing machines being used in hospitals

'While I had imagined what the images would look like for years, nothing prepared me for the incredible detail we could see on that first scan,' Professor Cherry said.

The EXPLORER works using radiation, and is a combination of a PET scan and CT scan, both of which are used every day in healthcare around the world.

But those machines can only image certain sections of the body and have limitations, such as requiring patients be injected with higher doses of radiation.

EXPLORER can produce higher-quality scans than has ever been possible in medicine, and is up to 40 times faster than existing scanners, taking 20-to-30 seconds to produce a scan of the whole body.

Professor Badawi, chief of nuclear medicine at UC Davis, said he was 'dumbfounded' by the machine.

'The level of detail was astonishing,' he said. 'We could see features you just don't see on regular PET scans.

'And the dynamic sequence showing the radiotracer moving around the body in three dimensions over time was, frankly, mind-blowing. There is no other device that can obtain data like this in humans.'

The EXPLORER can produce a scan of the body in less than 30 seconds (pictured, a profile scan of a human body), or it can be tuned to be able to detect radiation at very low levels, meaning it could be safer to use with children if they need multiple scans

PET scans, which produce 3D images of the body, require a radioactive substance, known as a tracer, to be injected into the patient.

HOW DO MEDICAL SCANS WORK? PET scans and CT scans are both commonly used imaging techniques to give medics a view inside the human body. PET scans are 3D while CT scans are 2D. Both involve the patient lying partly in a large tubular scanning machine while the scanner rotates to picture the body from the front, back and sides. They work by measuring radiation as it passes through or out of the body, similarly to X-rays but on a more sensitive scale, and the image is mapped by a computer. For PET scans a patient has to be injected with the radioactive substance first, and this may happen in some CT scans. The radiation can then be sensed at different levels in different tissues in the body, giving the radiographer a shaded or colour-coded image of the part of the body they're looking at. Source: NHS

This can be problematic for children who require regular scans because the radiation could build up to harmful levels.

But the extra-sensitive EXPLORER can work with 40 times less radiation than a current PET scan.

Professor Cherry said: 'The tradeoff between image quality, [scan] time and injected radiation dose will vary for different applications, but in all cases, we can scan better, faster or with less radiation dose, or some combination of these.'

The professors claim the scanner could have countless uses in medicine, such as improving diagnoses and tracking the progression of a disease.

For example, medics may be able to find every place a cancer has spread to from a single scan, which currently can require multiple images.

They could also track blood flow around the body, measure how well sugar is being absorbed or watch how drugs move around.

The scientists plan to put the first scanner to work in Sacramento, California, and to start using it on patients from June 2019.

'I don't think it will be long before we see a number of EXPLORER systems around the world,' Professor Cherry added.

The scanner's inventors say it could be used to track where cancer has spread and follow infections which move around the body. One said: 'I don't think it will be long before we see a number of EXPLORER systems around the world'

'Now, our focus turns to planning the studies that will demonstrate how EXPLORER will benefit our patients and contribute to our knowledge of the whole human body in health and disease.'

The machine was developed with the help of Chinese manufacturer United Imaging Healthcare, and grants from the National Cancer Institute and National Institutes of Health.

The first scans produced by the machine will be presented at the Radiological Society of North America meeting later this week.

====== 1747 ========

INTERNET MAY BE FUELLING HYPOCHONDRIA AFTER ‘GOOGLE DIAGNOSES’ SURGE BY MORE THAN 8,700% IN 3 YEARS

Britons are turning to Google more than 100,000 times a year to self-diagnose and find cures, new research shows.

UK search volumes for terms such as 'how to know if chest pains are serious' have risen by 8,781 per cent from 2015 to 2018, analysis of Google data has found.

It raises concerns that searching symptoms online is fueling hypochondria.

Searches for treatment for sciatica, acne and IBS have been the most common ovver the past three years.

Analysis of Google data showed self-diagnosis is soaring by up to almost 9000 per cent for problems such as chest pain

'GP near me' was googled 500,000 times between January and August alone this year, and 'GP online' was googled on average 22,000 times a year.

Hannah Sims, Product Manager for Perkbox Medical, which commissioned the research, believes the pressure on the NHS is driving people to look for answers more quickly.

NHS GP SHORTAGE IS A 'DESPERATE SITUATION' Official figures showed in February that 41 per cent of GPs – around 10,000 doctors – are 50 or over and are expected to quit within the next five to ten years. And 2.5 million patients are at risk of their local GP surgery closing because so many are relying on doctors who are close to retirement. At the same time, fewer young doctors are choosing to specialise as GPs and are opting for other career paths as surgeons or specialists. Many GPs are retiring in their 50s, moving abroad or leaving to work in the private sector, increasing the pressure on those who still work in the sector. Appointment waiting times are getting longer and more people are going to A&E for minor illnesses because they can't see a doctor. Despite an NHS a plan to recruit 5,000 extra GPs by 2021, numbers of family doctors are falling. And 762 GP practices across the UK could close within the next five years, according to the Royal College of Nursing. Rachel Power, chief executive of the Patients Association, last week told The Times: 'This is a desperate situation with potentially serious consequences for patients.'

She said: 'Currently, over one million people a week in the UK struggle to get themselves seen by a doctor when they need it.

'GP surgeries tend to only be open during the usual working hours and are stretched to fit everyone in, pushing appointment waiting times to around two weeks.

'Similarly, the average health insurance premium in the UK costs £1,400.

'The NHS has been looking after the health of the nation for 70 years now.

'It's a wonderful system, but it isn't without its challenges, particularly in primary care.'

The statistics show the most commonly searched questions, suggesting people are commonly self-diagnosing.

'How to know if chest pains are serious?' was among the most searched terms with 14,210 average searches from January - August this year.

'How to get rid of back pain?' received 12,800 average searches in the same period, and 'how to get rid of stomach pain?' garnered 18,200 average searches.

Sims added: 'Many of these symptoms account for key causes of absenteeism at work, which costs the UK economy £77billion per year.

'And it makes sense, when waiting times are often long and employers aren't financially able to provide their staff with an alternative route to see a doctor, people naturally look for a quick fix solution, googling their symptoms and getting some rest from home, or, worse, falling victims to 'presenteeism' at work.'

'On top of that, there's the admin involved with sorting it all out – wading through pages of jargon, comparing different, often confusing policies, conducting a full census of your staff and making big decisions about what you can and can't afford to cover.

'It's not an easy world to navigate in, and it's no wonder busy employers and HR leaders back away.'

Experts warned last month that 'alarm bells' are ringing as official figures revealed the NHS waiting list is the longest for 11 years.

4.15million patients are now waiting for routine treatment with A&E departments their most busiest.

Patients often struggle to get appointments at their GPs and are being put at risk by hurried consultations, an interim Government report said last month.

It suggested family doctors should extend the 10-minute consultation time for patients who are most in need to improve care and increase their job satisfaction

However, Dr Nigel Watson warned increasing consultation length would inevitably exacerbate difficulties in getting an appointment in the first place.

GPs reported that they were having to make many rapid clinical decisions and complex assessments.

The average consultation time of 10 minutes in the UK – thought to be the shortest in the developed world – is contributing to this, it found.

====== 1748 ========

MODEL SHEDS TEARS AFTER SHOWING THE REALITY OF HER ALMOST INVISIBLE EPILEPTIC SEIZURES ON INSTAGRAM

A model uploaded a live video of herself having a seizure to Instagram to show the reality of epilepsy.

Sophie Wilson-Smith, 24, of north London, sheds tears as she explains how scary her seizures - which can be unnoticeable to others - are.

The masters degree student said: 'I would never usually post this but I've had enough. This is what a simple partial seizure looks like.

'Sometimes it looks like nothing or that I'm staring into space. Sometimes it looks like I'm full on convulsions [sic].'

Ms Wilson-Smith, 24, uploaded a live video of herself having a seizure to Instagram to show the reality of epilepsy

The 24-year-old model and student from London explains how scary her seizures, which can be unnoticeable to others, are

Ms Wilson-Smith had no idea she had the condition until she suffered a terrifying episode while at work in April 2017.

A barrage of tests followed until the summer of 2018, when she was officially diagnosed with epilepsy – a neurological condition causing seizures, due to a sudden burst of intense electrical activity in the brain.

She said: 'The video was like a therapy for me, a way of educating others on the mental aspect of having to deal with this.

'Lots of people don't realise there are different types of seizure. It's not always the typical fit you see on TV, where a person is on the ground shaking.'

Ms Wilson-Smith experiences focal seizures, which starts in one side of the brain. You can still be aware of your surroundings.

'The ones I experience are almost unnoticeable, yet I'll be freaking out inside. It can make you feel very alone.

'It usually only lasts a few seconds to a couple of minutes. But it makes my heart feel like it's beating out of my chest and I feel unaware of my surroundings when it's happening.

'Sometimes the left side of my body does that [shake] and I really struggle to get my words out... so it's quite normal for me to get upset afterwards.'

'The ones I experience are almost unnoticeable, yet I'll be freaking out inside. It can make you feel very alone', Ms Wilson-Smith said about her epileptic focal seizures

Ms Wilson-Smith, who is studying to be a vet, first experienced a seizure at her work in April 2017, and was diagnosed over a year later with epilepsy

Until her first seizure, Ms Wilson-Smith, who is studying Veterinary Epidemiology and Public Health, was a healthy individual juggling modelling, a part-time retail job, and studying for her university zoology degree.

Remembering the day in April 2017 she said: 'My memory of it is very hazy, but I can only describe the symptoms as being migraine-like, just without the headache.

'I said to my friend, "I really don't feel well. Something is wrong." Apparently, as I spoke, I just went completely blank.

WHAT IS A FOCAL SEIZURE? A focal onset seizure, in an epileptic seizure that starts in one side of the brain. Until recently these seizures were called partial seizures. There are two types: A focal aware seizure: You stay fully aware of what’s happening around you. This type of seizure used to be called a simple partial seizure.

Focal impaired awareness seizure: If your awareness of what’s happening around you is affected at any time. This type of seizure used to be called a complex partial seizure. What happens to you during a focal seizure depends on which part of the brain the seizure happens in. This is because different areas of the brain control movements, body functions, feelings and reactions. Some people experience just one symptom during a focal seizure, while others experience several. Symptoms of focal seizures can be split into two groups: Motor symptoms: Examples include part of your body, for example one arm, going stiff, part of your body going limp or ‘floppy’, rhythmic jerking in part of your body, the head and eyes turning to one side, lip smacking, repeated swallowing or chewing, undressing, running or walking.

Unmotor symptoms: Examples include feelings of being hot or cold, fear, anxiety, anger or pleasure, changes to vision, hearing, smell or taste, hallucinations, feeling like your body is distorted or missing, changes to breathing, heart-rate or skin tone or difficulty processing language Focal seizures mostly last between a few seconds and two minutes. Some people are able to continue what they are doing afterwards, but some people may need to sleep or feel weak. Source: Epilepsy Action

'Next thing I knew, I was surrounded by paramedics.'

After being checked over at hospital, Ms Wilson-Smith was initially told she had probably had a hemiplegic migraine, where one side of the body becomes temporarily paralysed.

But in the throes of a focal seizure, a person may also experience speech difficulties, vision problems or confusion.

Ms Wilson-Smith continued: 'I didn't fit the typical epilepsy symptoms, so it took a long time to be properly diagnosed, but the medication I was given didn't help me.

'Over the course of a year, I was having more and more focal seizures.

'Doctors were convinced they were hemiplegic migraines, but I didn't agree. It was incredibly frustrating, and I ended up feeling down and depressed.

'Life was changing so much for me, and yet nobody seemed to understand.'

Ms Wilson-Smith was having around five seizures a month and could feel symptoms building up for days on end before they happened.

Describing the onset of a seizure, she said: 'I'll feel this uncomfortable, almost anxious feeling in my stomach, before the room gets bigger and smaller. My vision will feel odd, and my hearing is as if someone has their hands over my ears.

'Afterwards, I'll feel really disorientated and upset.'

Ms Wilson-Smith began to dread going out in case one happened in public, worried that people will judge her if she has an episode in public.

She said: 'I remember being on the Tube in London once when I felt a seizure coming. I explained what was happening and asked for a seat and this person just started at me, without moving.

'I ended up having one standing up, and on that packed carriage, only one person asked if I was okay.'

At the end of 2017, Ms Wilson-Smith was forced to quit her retail job, as the stress of juggling everything was making her symptoms worse.

Finally, in summer 2018, she met with a specialist at Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge, where she was officially diagnosed with epilepsy.

'I'd come to terms with the fact that something more than originally thought was wrong with me', she said.

'While it wasn't nice to hear, it was a relief to finally have a diagnosis.

'My specialist was amazing. He put me on a course of medicine right away, which took a couple of weeks to kick in, but has been great.

'It's a long road to see if this will be a long-term solution, and I've had to up my dosage twice, but I feel very grateful for now.

'Before, the tiniest bit of stress, tiredness or even being on my period would trigger me – but now, my episodes are few and far between.'

Ms Wilson-Smith, who is now working with the charity Epilepsy Action, decided to film the video for Instagram around three months ago, before her medication was kicking in.

Although nervous as to how people would react, she was hit with a wave of support, receiving messages off strangers from around the globe.

Now, by speaking out, she hopes she will educate people on the invisible side of epilepsy – and show others living with it that they are not alone.

She said: 'Of course, everyone is different, but personally, when I'm in a seizure, I need people to remain calm, sit with me and wait, helping me come back down.

'There's nothing worse than someone panicking, shouting and shaking you.

'Everyone should inform themselves about epilepsy, as it can happen to absolutely anybody. It just hit me out of the blue, and we're all still trying to work out why.

'What people like me need is as much kindness and understanding as possible. Judgement doesn't help anybody.

'To others with epilepsy, I want to also say how important it is to speak up if you don't feel well. You may feel afraid or worry about being a burden but you aren't – and your health is so important.'

Over 500,000 people in the UK, about one in every 100, have epilepsy, according to Epilepsy Action.

One in 50 people will have epilepsy at some time in their life (not everyone with epilepsy will have it for life), and there are over 40 different types of seizures.

====== 1749 ========

MOTHER-OF-TWO, 35, BATTLES CRIPPLING MS THAT WENT UNDETECTED FOR A DECADE

A mother-of-two's crippling multiple sclerosis went undetected for a decade after she dismissed it as just a pulled muscle.

Maggie Conner was diagnosed with the debilitating condition in 2013 aged 29 but believes she first experienced symptoms a decade earlier aged 19 after she collapsed in a nightclub.

Before her diagnosis the former business manager was a party-loving professional with a steady job. Now 35, Mrs Conner, who only discovered she had MS while undergoing IVF, is forced to rely on a wheelchair and rarely leaves the house.

Terrified her children will one day become her carers, she is fundraising £50,000 for a stem-cell transplant in Mexico that may halt the spread of the disease.

The treatment - not available to her on the NHS - will rebalance her immune system via a course of chemotherapy.

Scroll down for video

Maggie Conner's crippling multiple sclerosis went undetected for more than a decade after she dismissed it as a pulled muscle. Pictured with her daughters Megan (left) and Leah (right), the 35-year-old now relies on a wheelchair to get about and rarely leaves the house

Pictured in 2009 at her brothers' 1920s themed wedding, Mrs Conner used to be the life and soul of the party. She was finally diagnosed in 2013 after years of collapsing, and enduring pain in her back and wrists. Mrs Conner thought she had pulled a muscle while working in a shop

Mrs Conner, who lives with her children and husband Paul, said: 'I feel trapped inside myself. It's difficult to spend time with my kids and not to be physically capable of playing with them or doing anything with them.

'I can't do what I used to do, it feels like I'm in the way all the time.

'It's an everyday obstacle in allowing me to be a proper mum and the mum my children deserve.'

After collapsing in a nightclub in the late 1990s, Mrs Conner went on to experience falls throughout her twenties, which would often cause her to burn her hands on the hob.

'When I was 19 I collapsed in a club, everyone thought I was on drugs, I reckon that was the first sign that something went was wrong,' she said.

'There were lots of little signs like bad back pains and weak wrists. It was one thing after another.

'I was a manager of a busy shop and spent my life working, so I just thought it was a pulled muscle.

'It was really horrible. I was always having falls and burning myself.'

Mrs Conner's sister, Gwen Marcar, 40, added: 'There were definitely symptoms of her condition but just none of us noticed it.'

Things then took a turn for the worse in 2011 when Mrs Conner woke with numbness in both her feet and legs.

Mrs Conner worries her daughters, who she describes as 'miracles', will one day become her carers. She was diagnosed while undergoing IVF to conceive Megan (right)

Mrs Conner is pictured at a family Christmas gathering in Peterhead in 2009. Her sister Gwen Marcar admits there were always signs she was suffering but no one took it all that seriously

Despite doctors reassuring Mrs Conner at the time of her diagnosis she would unlikely experience symptoms for 20 years, she already feels 'trapped' in her own body. She is pictured with Megan (right) and Leah on May 21 2015. Mrs Conner tries to stay upbeat for her children

But it was not until 2013 when Mrs Conner finally went to a doctor and was referred for an MRI scan.

She was then given the crushing diagnosis - at the same time as she was receiving fertility treatment.

'The diagnosis was an "oh my god" moment,' Mrs Conner said.

Despite her condition, Mrs Conner tried to remain upbeat and went on to give birth to second daughter Leah, now three.

'I tried to be as positive as possible and tried to adapt to things and overcome them,' she said.

Speaking of her daughters, Mrs Conner added: 'They were both a miracle and two girls whom I'm so proud of.'

Mrs Conner is pictured recently with Megan (right) and Leah, who she is 'so proud of'

Despite her diagnosis, Mrs Conner then had Leah (pictured at one-day-old on May 21 2015)

Mrs Conner is pinning all her hopes on a pioneering haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) treatment in Mexico, which may halt the spread of the disease.

The treatment promises to rebalance her immune system via a course of chemotherapy.

'Each day is a major struggle. It depends if the body wants to work,' Mrs Conner said.

'I really, really need this treatment. It could put me at serious risk of infection but it will give me a second shot at life.

'As long as it stops the progression of the disease, that's all I want. My condition is really bad at the moment, I even need help to roll over.

'People rarely understand what living with MS is like.'

Ms Marcar added: 'If you ask Maggie how she is she'll say she's fine but the truth is she has really deteriorated over the last year.

'She always puts on a brave face but she has got worse. She's an incredibly strong person.'

Writing on her fundraising page for HSCT, Ms Marcar claims her sister does not qualify for trial treatment in the UK due to her MS being too advanced.

Ms Marcar wrote: 'She is becoming trapped and the future is terrifying.

'As well as the physical, her memory and concentration is greatly affected too. Add to that the extreme fatigue and day to day life is very hard.'

The family are raising money towards the treatment, which costs $55,000 for 28 days, as well as flights to Mexico, a full-time carer while there, and any additional therapies or scans.

Donate towards Mrs Conner's HSCT treatment here.

Mrs Conner is pictured on her graduation day in November 2005 after earning a degree from Aberdeen College in Fashion and Textile Design. She later became a business manager

====== 1750 ========

WATCHING MORE THAN 2HOURS AND 12MINUTES OF DAYTIME TV CAN LEAD TO AN EARLY DEATH, MAJOR STUDY WARNS

Watching television for hours on end each day is bad for your health and can even lead to an early death, warned a large-scale study last night.

It linked long spells in front of the TV to habits like smoking, drinking and bad diet as well a higher threat of heart disease.

Those at the greatest risk live in poorer areas, according to data from nearly 329,000 people.

A new study has linked long spells in front of the TV to habits like smoking, drinking and bad diet as well a higher threat of heart disease [File photo]

The research by the University of Glasgow examined the health of people aged 40 to 69, checking how many watched television for four hours or more a day.

This was classed as ‘high’ and such viewers were highly likely to be watching daytime or late-night TV.

Those with the most healthy lifestyles viewed their set for 2.2 hours a day while 2.9 hours was moderately healthy.

Academics also examined the number of participants who slept for less than seven hours or more than nine hours each day.

Their findings from the UK Biobank database suggest that too much or too little sleep can also lead to poorer health and shorter lives.

Other factors were taken into account such as obesity, physical activity, smoking, drinking and diet.

But the study in The Lancet Public Health journal said TV viewing time and sleep duration were ‘emerging risk factors’ in assessing lifestyles.

Watching television for hours on end each day is bad for your health and can even lead to an early death, warned a large-scale study last night [File photo]

Although deprived groups ‘are likely to experience disproportionate harm from unhealthy lifestyles’, death rates could be cut, it added.

‘Lifestyle scores show a high proportion of deaths are due to modifiable factors and are therefore avoidable, highlighting new targets for public health intervention,’ concluded the researchers.

====== 1751 ========

NINE IN TEN PEOPLE WANT SUGAR AND CALORIES TO BE REDUCED IN FOOD

Nine out 10 people want their food to be made healthier to stop them becoming obese, a survey has revealed.

Pressure is building on the food industry to reduce the amount of sugar and calories in their foods as more and more people become overweight.

A huge majority of people believe supermarkets should have healthier foods by the check-outs and agree obesity is one of the UK's biggest health concerns.

Public Health England has warned it will call for more laws restricting the food industry if it doesn't work hard enough to reduce sugar levels.

The food industry has been told to cut sugar levels in popular foods by 20 per cent before 2020, or Public Health England threatens it will bring in more laws like the sugar tax

'Obesity is the pandemic of modern times,' said Duncan Selbie, chief executive of Public Health England (PHE), which commissioned the research.

'Customers are saying they want faster progress from the food industry and in particular those businesses that have taken little or no action.'

PHE warned it will be keeping a close eye on food businesses to track the Government's ambition of reducing sugar intake by 20 per cent by 2020.

Companies have been told to cut a fifth of the sugar content out of popular foods such as breakfast cereals, yoghurts, pizzas and ready meals.

People are overwhelmingly in favour of the industry being forced to make its food healthier, according to PHE's survey.

HOW THE GOVERNMENT IS TRYING TO STOP OBESITY The proposed plans to restrict the number of calories in pizzas, pies and ready meals comes as part of drastic Government moves over the past year to try and cut down on obesity. A tax on added sugar in drinks came into force in April, requiring companies to hand over more of the money they make from drinks which contain more than 5g of sugar per 100ml of liquid. As a result, many soft drinks have had their recipes changed in order to avoid paying the tax and putting prices up. Sugary drinks are the biggest single source of sugar for children and teenagers. The Government is also considering making it compulsory for all restaurants and fast food outlets to display the number of calories in each meal on their menu. Some food outlets already do this but there can be unexpected numbers of calories in popular dishes, and the Government is consulting on the plans before a decision is due in spring. In March this year, Public Health England warned Brits to crack down on the number of calories they're eating, advising people to consume no more than 1,600 per day. The watchdog says adults shouldn't eat any more than 400 calories for breakfast, 600 for lunch and 600 for dinner – this would allow for some snacks, experts said. Examples of 600-calorie meals include a tuna pasta salad and a small cereal bar, a chicken salad sandwich and a pack of crisps, or half a pepperoni pizza with a quarter of a garlic baguette and a banana. In the same announcement PHE said shops selling the food should cut down their portion sizes to help people slim their waistlines. Plans are also being considered to ban advertising junk food on television before 9pm, to reduce the number of children who are exposed to it.

Most people – 90 per cent in a survey of 1,000 – admitted individual and family responsibility are the most important.

But 80 per cent added the food industry must take steps to help, with another 72 per cent saying the Government needs to help people be healthy.

Some 87 per cent of people support swapping unhealthy snacks at supermarket tills with healthier ones.

The survey comes after a sugar tax was this year placed on soft drinks and there are plans to restrict the number of calories allowed on pizzas and pies.

Dr Alison Tedstone, chief nutritionist at PHE, said: 'Severe obesity in ten-to-eleven year olds is at an all-time high.

'Plans to improve the nation’s diet are often described as "nanny state" interference, but it’s clear people want healthier food and they expect the industry to play their full part in this.'

Figures last month revealed children in England are fatter than ever, with more than 200,000 10 to 11-year-olds classed as overweight or obese, and 24,000 of those severely obese.

Places selling hot meals such as restaurants, cafes, pubs and takeaways have been targeted by PHE's warning to crack down.

It warns it will highlight places which aren't working towards providing healthier meals, and may take more action against the industry as a whole – though it is not clear what form this could take.

Dr Tedstone suggested the Government could bring in more laws like the sugar tax to control what goes into food.

'We would hope to see significant reduction in the amount of sugar in the nine categories and products included in PHE's sugar reduction programme,' she added.

'We will advise if there is need for further action by Government when the data is published.

'In chapter two of the Childhood Obesity Plan they said they would consider other fiscal levers if progress was not good enough – we have already got a levy on sugary drinks.'

A report published in May this year revealed the food industry had failed to meet its target of cutting five per cent of sugar from popular foods by August 2017.

Pressure will continue to grow on companies producing and selling food as increasing numbers of people become obese.

Around a quarter of all adults in the UK are now obese, according to the NHS, and Public Health England's survey – run by pollster Ipsos Mori – found 79 per cent of people agreed obesity has a negative impact on the NHS.

The public acknowledged it as the third biggest health concern for people in the UK – behind only cancer and mental health.

====== 1752 ========

MAN IS FORCED TO HAVE HIS LEG AMPUTATED AFTER DEVELOPING CANCER

A man's leg had to be amputated when it broke under the weight of a massive cancerous tumour - three years after he first complained about the pain.

Matthew King, 20, said his life was made a misery by the constant agony, which began in 2014 and left him unable to sleep through the night.

He visited his doctors on five separate occasions, but they dismissed his concerns as muscle pain.

Eventually, after breaking his right leg in March 2017, medics discovered the orange-sized growth which was so heavy it caused his femur to snap.

Still standing: Matthew King, 20, from North Yorkshire, had his right leg removed in August 2017 after doctors finally found a huge cancerous growth which had been causing him agony

Mr King, from Appleton Wiske, North Yorkshire, was rushed to Darlington Memorial Hospital, where he was diagnosed with Ewing Sarcoma - rare form of cancer that typically affects young men .

'My diagnosis didn’t really hit at first,' he added. 'The doctors realised the tumour was three times the size of a normal tumour.

'When you’re told something like that, you can’t really register it.'

Mr King then began a course of chemotherapy, culminating in the amputation of his right leg in August 2018 in a 14-hour-long operation.

He then spent five months learning how to walk again with a prosthetic leg.

'When the doctors told me that I needed the amputation, I wasn’t scared. But after the operation I kept getting phantom sensations,' he said.

'Learning to walk took a bit of time, I had to learn how to walk on parallel bars and it took me five months.'

Diagnosis: Rushed to Darlington Memorial Hospital, he was diagnosed with Ewing Sarcoma - rare form of cancer that typically affects young men

Strength: Mr King pictured in his hospital bed shortly before beginning a course of chemo

Naturally, he believes that if doctors had not dismissed his concerns then he would still have all of his limbs today.

'For years I had excruciating pain. I’d spend nights after school lying awake in pain,' he added. 'Often it was so bad I couldn’t get off the sofa and I’d cry through the night because the pain was so intense.

'It was like having a dagger driven into my leg but the feeling lingered all day. It made my life a misery. I couldn’t do the things I liked such as football, cycling and running.

'It was frustrating because we asked doctors if they could set up some scans so that they could be certain and they kept on saying that it wasn’t needed.

'I was only 18. I kept asking "why is this happening to me?". You never think it’ll happen to you but it just happened.

'The chemo was really bad. I couldn’t really eat and I got really, really tired and even got a kidney infection. I felt like garbage all the time.'

Smiling through it: 'I was only 18. I kept asking "why is this happening to me?". You never think it’ll happen to you but it just happened,' he said

