

====== 1471 ========

EXPERT REVEALS THE PSYCHOLOGICAL DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THOSE WHO LOVE OR LOATHE BLACK FRIDAY SHOPPING

If the thought of taking part in the annual ritual of Black Friday gives you cold chills rather than a rush of excitement, you're not alone.

For every avid bargain hunter who plans for the day as if training for a marathon, there's someone else who stays home, secure in the knowledge that no one will trample them, shove them or invade their personal space just to get this season's hottest deals.

It's not just a lack of appreciation for bargains that drives this disconnect.

Psychology research indicates that several factors determine which side of the shop-'til-you-drop divide you land on.

Some people just aren't wired to enjoy the more social aspects of shopping.

What you prioritize plays in

Psychology researchers divide the world into two groups: those who tend to focus more on achieving tasks versus those who focus more on making connections with others.

This idea is encapsulated in what's known as goal theory.

For every avid bargain hunter who plans for the day as if training for a marathon, there's someone else who stays home, secure in the knowledge that no one will trample them, shove them or invade their personal space just to get this season's hottest deals. File photo

Task-oriented shoppers typically focus on finding the things they need as quickly as possible and with the least amount of effort.

Socially oriented shoppers, on the other hand, enjoy the presence of others while they shop.

There is experimental evidence that task-oriented shoppers are more likely to find even a handful of other shoppers nearby to be a crowd and an obstacle to a successful shopping trip.

The same research suggests that social shoppers are actually energized by the presence of other consumers.

These folks enjoy the experience more when there are others nearby, even if they don't directly interact.

Another aspect of this shopping divide comes down to individual expectations regarding personal space. Psychology researchers talk about this preference in what they call field theory.

If you've ever been bothered by a 'close-talker' who leans in too close or touches your arm as they tell you a story, then you are likely someone who requires a little more personal space than that storyteller does.

The presence of other shoppers in a store is psychologically arousing for people on both ends of the personal space spectrum, but in different ways.

Task-oriented shoppers typically focus on finding the things they need as quickly as possible and with the least amount of effort. Socially oriented shoppers, on the other hand, enjoy the presence of others while they shop. File photo

People who don't require much personal space feel excitement when others are around.

That same arousal feels instead like stress to the person who requires a little more space to call their own.

And stress is something everyone tries to minimize. Almost everything we do as consumers is an attempt to reduce stress – from eating when we feel hungry to buying that bigger TV you just have to have.

Taken together, these two theories explain a lot about the way you feel about Black Friday-style shopping.

Survival tips for the reluctant shopper

The five-day period that starts on Thanksgiving Day and ends on Cyber Monday will bring about two-thirds of Americans out to shop.

Black Friday remains the busiest shopping day of the year, with roughly half Americans leaving their homes to take part in this consumer ritual.

If you read those statistics and think, 'Bring it on!' then you are likely a social shopper who enjoys the thrill of the hunt and finds crowds energizing.

If instead, you react to those numbers by booking a root canal so you don't have to hit the stores, then you're more likely a task-oriented shopper who prefers to get in and get out with the items you need.

You are also more likely to be annoyed by the physical closeness of strangers that is a hallmark of competitive shopping. But don't call the dentist just yet – there may still be ways for you to comfortably participate in Black Friday and its bargains.

First, make a list of everyone for whom you would like to find a gift. Then do your research on the sales that might help you achieve your goals.

Both of those tasks should appeal to the need for organization that task-oriented shoppers tend to exhibit.

Next, recognize that the majority of Black Friday devotees are going for the big bargains first, and that means that they'll head for the big box and department stores.

There may still be ways for you to comfortably participate in Black Friday and its bargains, the researcher says. First, make a list of everyone for whom you would like to find a gift. Then do your research on the sales that might help you achieve your goals. File photo

Instead make your first stops the local boutiques and smaller shops that won't get as much traffic early in the day.

By the time you've taken care of those items on your list, the larger stores will begin to clear out and you can head in.

Try avoiding malls and go where you can park close to the store you actually want to visit.

Doing this will allow you to feel some degree of control and alleviate some of the stress you feel when you don't have direction.

By the end of the day, you can check some things off your shopping list and feel good about the bargains you were able to find, all while maintaining your sanity.

And if you've read this far merely to better understand why your significant other doesn't want to join you on this most special of consumer holidays, just acknowledge your psychological differences.

You go ahead and tackle Black Friday with the enthusiasm of a natural-born social shopper.

Don't worry about those who resist – they can always snag Cyber Monday bargains from the comfort of home.

This article is republished from The Conversation under a Creative Commons license. Read the original article.





====== 1472 ========

SHOULD'VE GONE TO SPECSAVERS? HACKERS BREAK INTO THOUSANDS OF VISION DIRECT CUSTOMERS' ACCOUNTS

A Vision Direct hack has exposed thousands of its customers' personal data, a new report has revealed.

Personal information such as full name, billing address, email address, password, telephone number and payment card information, including card number, expiry date and CVV were all stolen.

It is believed anyone who put their details onto the site between 3 and 8 November of this year - a total of 16,300 individuals - could be at risk.

Scroll down for video

Personal information such as full name, billing address, email address, password, telephone number and payment card information, including card number, expiry date and CVV were all stolen (stock image)

According to the firm, a fake Google Analytics script was the cause of the hack, although it is not known how this was placed on Vision Direct's sites.

'This particular breach is known as Shoplift and was already known to our technology team, who installed a patch provided by our web platform provider to prevent this form of malware', a Vision Direct spokesperson told BBC.

'Unfortunately, this current incident appears to be a derivative against which the patch proved ineffective.

'We are continuing to investigate the breach and have made numerous steps to ensure this does not happen again.'

The information was compromised as it was being entered into the site.

Users who paid with PayPal did not have payment details compromised but personal information such as the customer's phone number could have been.

Any existing personal data previously stored in the database was not affected by the breach.

The firm said it has taken necessary steps to prevent further data theft and that the website is now working normally.

According to the firm, a fake Google Analytics script was the cause of the hack, although it is not known how this was placed on Vision Direct's sites (stock image)

In a blog post, the firm said they are working with authorities to investigate how the theft occurred.

A spokesperson said the company will compensate any customers who have suffered financial loss as a result of the breach.

'If you believe you may have been affected because you logged into your Vision Direct account or updated your personal or financial details on VisionDirect.co.uk between 12.11am GMT 3rd November 2018 and 12.52pm GMT 8th November 2018, we recommend you contact your bank or credit card provider and follow their advice', the post read.

'We understand that this incident will cause concern and inconvenience to our customers.

'We are contacting all affected customers to apologise and continue to inform you of any updates in the next few days'.

====== 1473 ========

BRITAIN COULD BE HIT WITH SOLAR FLARE THAT COULD CAUSE BLACKOUTS AND BRING DOWN THE INTERNET

Solar storms are capable of wiping out communication networks and causing electronic blackouts and a system is needed to protect the UK, claims the Met office.

It has warned ministers the nation needs to be better prepared for the violent space storms due to their devastating potential.

The study said that the UK is particularly vulnerable due to the country's high-reliance on satellite technology, which is especially vulnerable to the events.

It claimed the nation needs to build a satellite network to act as an early warning system which would monitor the sun's activity.

Damages to computers, data transmission cables and power lines caused by a space storm could cost the country up to £16 billion in damage, it claims.

Scroll down for video

Solar storms could bring down the internet, cause communications to fail and cause blackouts across the UK. The MET office have warned ministers to prepare for the solar flare that has hit earth 'two or three times' and could cost the country £16 billion in damage.

The system would give Earth up to a week to prepare for a barrage of charged particles from the sun should the dangerous particles be detected.

Fast moving solar winds are created when the star's magnetic field opens up into space and are often captured as vast black regions in satellite images.

Charged particles have now made their way out into the solar system and begun to hit the atmosphere of our planet.

Solar storms can wreak havoc on global technology as the radiation which pummels our planet heats up the outer atmosphere, causing it to expand.

This means that satellite signals will struggle to penetrate the swollen atmosphere, leading to a lack of Internet service, GPS navigation, satellite TV such as Sky and mobile phone signal.

The report was co-authored with scientists from the British Antarctic Survey, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory and Cambridge University.

It said: 'We find that for a one-in-100-year event, with no space weather forecasting capability, the gross domestic product loss to the United Kingdom could be as high as £15.9bn.

'With existing satellites nearing the end of their life, forecasting capability will decrease in coming years, so if no further investment takes place, critical infrastructure will become more vulnerable to space weather.'

Solar storms can wreak havoc on global technology as the radiation which pummels our planet heats up the outer atmosphere, causing it to expand. This means that satellite signals will struggle to penetrate the swollen atmosphere.

The Solar and Heliospheric Observatory already monitors the sun for the UK and other countries since its launch in 1995.

Experts predict the satellite will soon become ineffective due to constant exposure to high levels of radiation for nearly 23 years.

A warning system proposed by the Met Office would allow the National Grid to prepare its power network and provide the Government with enough time to warn computer users for the imminent disruption.

Solar storms have already caused devastation on earth, with a giant solar flare which doubled the sun's brightness in 1859 causing powerful electrical currents in telegraph wires across Europe and igniting widespread fires.

Fast moving solar winds are created where the star's magnetic field opens up into space, captured as vast black regions in satellite imagery. Charged particles have now made their way out into the solar system and begun to hit the atmosphere of our planet.

More recently in 1989, a flare struck Quebec and Canada and left six million people without power.

In 2003, flares forced the crew of the International Space Station to take cover.

Researchers fear that another event like this would have even worse implications across the UK because of our high reliance on modern technology.

The Cabinet Office recently updated its national emergency disaster plan to rank solar storms as one of the nation's most serious natural hazards.

====== 1474 ========

AMAZING SIMULATION GIVES YOU A VIRTUAL TOUR OF THE VIOLENT BLACK HOLE AT THE CENTRE OF OUR GALAXY

An amazing simulation gives you a virtual tour of the violent black hole at the centre of the Milky Way galaxy.

The animation shows dust and gas whipping around the edges of Sagittarius A* at speeds of up to 56,000 miles per second (90,000 kilometres per second).

Scientists know the supermassive black hole sits in the middle of our galaxy, but have yet to get a good look at it because it is hidden behind huge plumes of gas.

Researchers at the Radboud University in the Netherlands and Goethe University in Germany have built the world's first virtual reality simulation of the object.

They used a host of recent models of Sagittarius A* to show what the black hole may look like to the naked eye.

They suggest the 360-degree tour, which people can explore through a VR headset, could be useful for studying black holes.

'Our virtual reality simulation creates one of the most realistic views of the direct surroundings of the black hole ,' said study coauthor Jordy Davelaar.

'It will help us to learn more about how black holes behave.

'Travelling to a black hole in our lifetime is impossible, so immersive visualisations like this can help us understand more about these systems from where we are.'

An amazing simulation gives you a virtual tour of the violent black hole at the centre of the Milky Way galaxy

Sagittarius A* is located around 26,000 light years from Earth, and scientists estimate it measures 27 million miles (44 million km) across.

The black hole sucks in one per cent of all the matter that orbits it, which mostly consists of dust and gas drawn to the object by its phenomenal gravitational pull.

Sagittarius A* cannot be seen by telescopes because it absorbs visible light, and is also hidden from view by large dust clouds in the Milky Way's spiral arms.

The animation shows dust and gas whipping around the centre of Sagittarius A* at speeds of up to 56,000 miles per second (90,000 kilometres per second)

Professor Heino Falcke, a researchers at Radboud University, said his team's simulation marked the first step in scientists' quest to visualise the black hole.

'We all have a picture in our head of how black holes supposedly look, but science has progressed and we can now make much more accurate renderings - these black holes look quite different from what we are used to.

'These new visualisations are just the start, more to come in the future.'

====== 1475 ========

PIONEERING LUNG CANCER TREATMENT USES HOT NEEDLE TO ZAP TUMOURS IN JUST 30 MINUTES

A pioneering two-in-one lung cancer treatment is being used to both diagnose and destroy hard-to-reach tumours in just half an hour – allowing thousands of NHS patients to avoid the need for invasive, life-changing surgery.

Doctors zap the tumour with a hot needle – a treatment called radiofrequency ablation – and at the same time carry out a biopsy, where a tiny piece of the cancer is removed for testing to see whether it is aggressive and likely to have spread.

Most lung-cancer patients currently undergo repeat procedures to have a tiny piece of the tumour cut out for examination (a biopsy), followed by radiotherapy or more surgery to remove the cancerous tissue.

How doctors use a hot needle to diagnose and destroy hard-to-reach tumours in just half an hour

The new treatment slashes the time it takes to get biopsy results to about two weeks and sometimes days, easing patients’ anxiety, and means tumours previously almost impossible to treat without major surgery can now be tackled under local anaesthetic in minutes.

This type of rapid treatment has been shown, in studies, to be just as effective as conventional treatments for both diagnosing and destroying tumours.

Lung cancer is the third most common UK cancer, with almost 50,000 Britons diagnosed every year. It is often deadly if not caught and treated quickly: only five per cent of patients live longer than ten years. Patients diagnosed early are usually offered invasive surgery to remove their tumours or radiotherapy to shrink them.

But up to a third of them are unable to have operations due to co-existing illnesses such as emphysema and chronic bronchitis which may cause fatal post-surgical complications.

Although effective, radiotherapy typically involves multiple trips to hospital and can result in side effects such as nausea, sore skin and trouble swallowing.

Lung cancer (pictured stock image) is the third most common UK cancer, with almost 50,000 Britons diagnosed every year

Furthermore, multiple sessions of radiation are not recommended because of the risk of permanently damaging healthy tissue and organs as well as triggering other cancers. It means that those with recurrent tumours may be refused further radiotherapy, dramatically reducing their chance of survival.

The huge advance of the hot-needle treatment is that it is safe to be performed several times over.

During the procedure, the patient is sedated before being given a dose of local anaesthetic to the chest. The patient lies under a CT scanner, enabling the doctor to watch surgical movements in real time.

A fine needle, 1.5mm wide, is inserted into the chest, between the ribs, at a site closest to the tumour.

Then the radiologist puts a needle just 0.9mm in diameter through the first one, using it to take a 2cm sample of the tumour to be sent for analysis.

A third microscopic needle is then inserted with an electrode at its tip. This needle is connected to a generator that delivers radiofrequency energy to the heart of the tumour, heating it 60 to 70C and destroying it.

Most lung-cancer patients currently undergo repeat procedures to have a tiny piece of the tumour cut out for examination (a biopsy), followed by radiotherapy (pictured) or more surgery to remove the cancerous tissue

Once the needle is removed, a small plaster is placed over the entry site and patient is sent home within a few hours.

A recent report in the journal Radiology showed that half of patients who underwent the hot-needle treatment survived at least five years, compared to just ten per cent of those who didn’t have it.

‘This new way of both sampling and destroying small lung tumours at the same time is a very effective way of treating lung cancer,’ says consultant chest radiologist Dr Sam Hare of the Royal Free Hospital, who pioneered the procedure at Barnet Hospital.

‘We can now destroy even more small tumours without surgery in a single session, before they can spread. Patents go home the same day.’

The two-in-one procedure is now being taught to other radiologists around the country.

Retired printer Ellinor Cobb, 80, had the therapy in April 2017 after her lung cancer returned following five radiotherapy sessions.

The mother-of-three says: ‘It was very comfortable and I went home that day.

‘They’ll need to keep monitoring me but scans show I’m clear of cancer. It’s marvellous – I’d recommend it to anyone who needed it.’

====== 1476 ========

YOUTUBE QUIETLY ROLLS OUT 100 MOVIES YOU CAN WATCH FOR FREE (AS LONG AS YOU DON'T MIND WATCHING ADS)

You can now watch dozens of movies for free on YouTube.

In October, the streaming giant quietly added a batch of about 100, feature-length films to its website that don't require a subscription to enjoy.

The only catch is that users have to be willing to sit through a few advertisements while they watch.

Scroll down for video

You can now watch dozens of movies for free on YouTube. In October, the firm quietly added a batch of 100 feature-length films to its website that don't require a subscription to enjoy

The 'Free to watch' category includes mostly older films, but there are some cult classic and critically acclaimed titles like 'Rocky,' 'Legally Blonde,' 'The Terminator' and 'Four Weddings and a Funeral.'

Ads will then pop up at regular intervals throughout the movie.

To check out what's available, head to YouTube's homepage, then navigate to the 'Movies & Shows' section in the lefthand toolbar.

From there, scroll down to the section titled 'Free to watch,' click on whatever movie you want to watch and it will begin playing automatically like any other YouTube video.

YouTube has long given users the option to watch movies and TV shows on its site, ranging from newly released titles to some throwbacks, for a range of prices.

The firm moved to offer free titles after it heard users would be interested having the option.

To check out what's available, head to YouTube's homepage, then navigate to the 'Movies & Shows' section in the lefthand toolbar. From there, users can browse through the free films

'We saw this opportunity based on user demand, beyond just offering paid movies,' Rohit Dhawan, YouTube's director of product management, told Ad Age.

'...It also presents a nice opportunity for advertisers.'

It's unclear how YouTube shares revenue with advertisers or how it secured deals with movie studios.

YouTube expects to add more titles to the 'Free to watch' section over time.

Dhawan told Ad Age that YouTube could find a way for advertisers to sponsor films, so that users can watch them for free and get access to exclusive screenings.

Should they pursue those kinds of deals, YouTube would have the user base to support it.

The Google-owned streaming platform counts roughly 1.9 billion monthly active users, according to Ad Age.

The 'Free to watch' category has mostly older films, but there are some cult classic titles like 'Rocky,' 'Legally Blonde,' (pictured) 'The Terminator' and 'Four Weddings and a Funeral'

Users can watch the cult classic 'Rocky' (pictured) films in YouTube's ad-supported 'Free to watch' category. YouTube hopes to add more recent titles to the platform over time

Still, the firm faces competition in the ad-supported video market.

Roku, which makes video streaming hardware, recently launched an ad-supported movie platform called The Roku Channel, while Walmart has free streaming films available on Vudu.

Amazon is also rumored to be considering jumping into the space with its own ad-supported streaming options, Ad Age said.

It comes as more and more users are watching YouTube on smart TVs, not just on smartphones, laptops and tablets.

This could give advertisers a greater incentive to lend their dollars to YouTube, experts say.

====== 1477 ========

WOOD-BURNING STOVES EMIT SIX TIMES AS MUCH POLLUTION AS A DIESEL TRUCK.

Their march has been unstoppable, from traditional farmhouses and cosy country cottages all the way to the front rooms of suburban semis. No family home, it seems, is complete without a stylish wood-burning stove.

And why not? Anyone who has ever watched the gently dancing flames will know that real fires are relaxing and reassuring, a nostalgic link to an age when life was simpler.

Featuring in endless glossy photoshoots, wood-burning stoves have even acquired something of a ‘green’ image, viewed as a clean, efficient and renewable source of heat.

Yet this cosy reputation conceals an altogether dirtier reality.

Scientists have found that wood burning stoves are choking the British atmosphere, adding to the smoke particles from traffic, industry and farming that cause thousands of preventable deaths

Because, whether in open hearths or specialist burners, wood fires are choking the British atmosphere, adding to the smoke particles from traffic, industry and farming that cause thousands of preventable deaths.

Although barely discussed, the evidence is shocking: just one of the latest ‘eco-friendly’ wood-burning stoves – those meeting all European tests – can produce about six times more particle pollution than a modern diesel lorry, or 18 times more than a modern diesel car.

Worse, still, they release their fumes into residential areas and at times when people are likely to be at home.

Few of us need to heat our homes with wood, rather than gas or electricity. In other words, the stoves and hearths we spark up for that extra cosy glow on a winter evening are little more than a lifestyle accessory.

One reason there’s so little discussion of this silent threat is that the smoke they produce is almost invisible, particularly when compared with the killer smogs of the 20th Century.

Those filthy, sometimes deadly combinations of fog and smoke caused by burning coal, led directly to the widely acclaimed Clean Air legislation of the 1950s.

It wasn’t until a chance discovery in Paris in 2005 that the modern menace of urban wood-burning was even identified.

Oliver Favez, a young PhD student, was measuring air pollution in a city park when he noticed a pattern that could not be linked to diesel fumes.

Instead, his instruments recorded a chemical signature previously seen in Alpine valleys, where wood-burning has a serious impact on air pollution. If the readings were correct, it was a serious problem in Paris, too.

The evidence is shocking: just one of the latest ‘eco-friendly’ wood-burning stoves – those meeting all European tests – can produce about six times more particle pollution than a modern diesel lorry, or 18 times more than a modern diesel car. (Stock image)

Favez continued his measurements for five weeks, concluding that each night – especially at weekends – the air was polluted by wood-burning and that wood smoke was adding between ten and 20 per cent to the city’s particle pollution.

Stranger still, this new pollution was not drifting in from the countryside as you might expect, but was instead coming from within the city itself.

Fellow scientists leapt on the findings and, gradually, traces of wood-burning pollution were found in other major European cities.

Public authorities had long since assumed that wood-burning was a thing of the past, but scientists measuring the air that people breathed were now proving them wrong.

Today in Britain there are more than 1.5 million wood-burning stoves, and about 200,000 are added to that total every year.

Yet nobody bothered to measure the effects until the winter of 2010, when my research team at King’s College London placed sampling devices in a 20-mile line across London.

As we suspected, a great deal of wood was being burned and it was making up ten per cent of the particle pollution that Londoners were breathing during winter.

Two years earlier, London had introduced a low emission zone, banning the most polluting diesel vehicles from the city. (Stock image)

There was other information, too. Wood-burning happened mainly at weekends, for example. It seemed that, to Londoners at least, the stoves were largely decorative or used as an extra heating source.

How bad was the problem? Two years earlier, London had introduced a low emission zone, banning the most polluting diesel vehicles from the city.

Now we had established that the extra particle pollution from wood-burning was six times greater than the particle pollution that the low emission zone had saved.

If wood-burning were to continue unabated, the money invested in cleaning up transport and industry could be negated.

It has been calculated that particle pollution caused 29,500 premature deaths in Britain in 2010 and that a short period of high air pollution in March and April 2014 caused about 1,650 ‘excess’ or additional deaths. (Stock image)

In fact, wood-burning could halt the progress on air pollution that has been made since the middle of the 20th Century.

If we introduce still more wood burning, particle pollution in the air of British cities is expected to be similar in 2030 to what it was in 2015, despite improvements in vehicle emissions.

Along with other scientists, we presented our data to the environment ministries here and in Europe, but the politicians were so focused on traffic pollution that they didn’t want to hear.

It was only in 2015, when a Government survey revealed that about one home in 12 in the United Kingdom was burning wood, that it was finally recognised as a problem. Wood-burning was producing 2.6 times more dangerous polluting particles than traffic exhaust.

A lot of these fires are actually illegal. Major British cities still have the smoke control laws put in place following the terrible four-day London smog of 1952 which killed at least 12,000.

These ban the burning of non-smokeless coal in open fires and prohibit the burning of wood, too, but the law is rarely enforced and widely ignored.

Almost all of London is designated as a smoke control area, for example, but in 2015, 68 per cent of wood-burning homes in London were using an open fire, even though most UK homes have gas or electric heating.

Why the lack of action?

In part, there’s political resistance to the idea of telling people what to do in their own homes, particularly when it comes to banning something pleasurable.

What happened in France is instructive. In 2015, the city of Paris got within a hair’s-breadth of banning wood-burning in open fires, but with just days to go, the French Ecology Minister, Ségolène Royal, attacked the proposal as ‘ridiculous’.

In a series of extraordinary statements, she seemed to suggest that banning a romantic evening with a glass of wine in front of the fire was an attack on the French way of life.

Another obstacle is the clean image that wood-burning stoves present. Stoves have been promoted as ‘green’, renewable and carbon-neutral compared to the environmental evil of burning fossil fuels.

It is certainly true that the most modern stoves and wood-pellet burners produce less than a fifth of the particle pollution that comes from an open fire.

So, upgrading from fireplaces to modern wood-burners should reduce air pollution at a stroke – but those upgrades are unlikely to happen any time soon because fireplaces and stoves go on for ever.

The people who burn wood in open hearths in Britain probably use the fireplace that was built with their house a century or more ago. Inefficient old stoves can pump out heat and fumes for generations to come.

In other words, it is not enough to set pollution standards for new wood-burners – we need action on existing fireplaces and stoves.

The testing regime itself is another obstacle to real improvement. Yes, stoves are getting better, and by 2022 those sold in Europe will have to meet Ecodesign standards that set limits on how much smoke they can produce.

However, as with diesel vehicles, there is a very large disparity between test performance and the smoke that comes from stoves in the real world.

Stoves are tested in idealised conditions using dry wood burnt for just an hour or so rather than the variety of wood that people use at home with frequent refuelling and adjustment to keep a fire going all evening.

So the results from laboratory tests have been nothing like results from those same wood-burners when they were tested in normal houses – and produced ten times as much pollution.

Some days the emissions were close to those of the laboratory test and at other times they would be as much as 16 times higher.

There has been huge variability in results even from the same stove, and it was a puzzle to find out why. Using wet wood appears to be one factor that increases the pollution; closing the air vents on the stove is another.

The biggest factor, though, is the person who lights the fire and the skill with which he or she does so. (Some countries have introduced videos and classes aimed at encouraging the best wood-burning techniques, such as lighting their fires from the top of the stacked wood and using plenty of kindling.

A lack of kindling is one of the reasons why wood-burners sometimes produce smoke when they are first lit.)

What you burn matters, too.

There is worrying evidence from air- quality testing carried out at a bowling club in the small New Zealand town of Wainuiomata, near Wellington.

As expected, the town’s air was full of wood smoke throughout the winter, but the smoke contained arsenic at a level 50 per cent greater than the legal limit in Europe.

The only possible explanation was that people were burning construction timber, treated with a preservative known as chromated copper arsenate (CCA).

New Zealand scientists rapidly found that it was not just a local problem. Treated wood was being burnt everywhere. Arsenic and lead were found in the air of suburbs of the Greek capital Athens, suggesting that people were burning construction waste and old painted wood. This is inevitably happening in Britain, too.

It is difficult to measure the direct effect on public health in detail, but wherever wood is burnt, we find air-pollution problems.

And air pollution, we know, endangers health. It has been calculated, for example, that particle pollution caused 29,500 premature deaths in Britain in 2010 and that a short period of high air pollution in March and April 2014 caused about 1,650 ‘excess’ or additional deaths.

The latest research suggests that the damaging effects of wood smoke are worse than we thought. In particular, it does not dissipate harmlessly.

On the contrary, scientists have discovered that wood smoke changes over time as the gases and particles in the smoke react and then make yet more pollution particles.

In some experiments, the concentration of particle pollution in the smoke increased by about 60 per cent as the hours passed. In others it tripled.

Because the problem is invisible, the health implications often become clear only when the wood-burning is removed or reduced.

In areas where this has happened as part of government-sponsored anti-pollution initiatives, the number of older people admitted to hospital has dropped by as much as 11 per cent, and winter death rates have dropped by a similar amount.

And there’s the great injustice. The smoke from a small numbers of homes that are burning wood – often as a lifestyle choice – can pollute a whole neighbourhood or even an entire city.

Changing centuries-old attitudes and habits will not be easy – who doesn’t love a crackling fire?

However warm, cosy and no-doubt stylish they make us feel, we have to question the place of wood fires in towns and cities.

We need to take action and urgently – lives are at risk.

Adapted from The Invisible Killer: The Rising Global Threat Of Air Pollution – And How We Can Fight Back, by Gary Fuller, published by Melville House UK on November 28, priced £12.99. Offer price £10.39 (20 per cent discount) until December 3. Pre-order at mailshop.co.uk/books or call 0844 571 0640; p&p is free on orders over £15. Spend £30 on books and get free premium delivery.

====== 1478 ========

BOLIVIAN QUARRY TOMB REVEALS VAST STASH OF 500-YEAR-OLD INCA HUMAN REMAINS AND RELICS

Archaeologists have found tombs at a Bolivian quarry containing remains from more than 500 years ago.

The remains, which were found about 12 miles (20km) from La Paz, belong to more than 100 individuals from an indigenous civilisation that formed part of the early Inca empire.

They were buried with more than 30 vessels used by the Incas for performing death rites, according to an archaeologist involved in the excavation.

The cemetery carved into limestone appears to have been built by the Pacajes people, whose cities were conquered by the Incas toward the end of the 15th century.

Scroll down for video

Archaeologists have found tombs at a Bolivian quarry containing remains from more than 500 years ago. The remains, which were found about 12 miles (20 kilometres) from La Paz, belong to more than 100 individuals from an indigenous civilisation

From their ancient capital Cusco, the Incas controlled a vast empire called Tahuantinsuyo, which extended from the west of present-day Argentina to the south of Colombia.

They ruled for more than two hundred years before being conquered by the invading Spanish in the 16th century.

'The vessels are whole and are Incan,' said Jedu Sagarnaga, an archaeology professor at Universidad Mayor de San Andres in La Paz who led the investigation.

The site near the modern-day town of Viacha also contained elongated skulls that may have been stretched to differentiate the social rank of individuals, he said.

The Pacajes formed part of the Aymara kingdom and developed around the year 1200 after the decline of the Tiwanacu people in the Andean highlands.

'This finding reaffirms our identity and culture and shows that not only was there an influence from the Incas, but from other people as well,' said Julio Condori, an archaeologist who runs the Archaeological and Anthropological Research Centre in Tiwanacu and was not involved in the excavation.

The site near the modern-day town of Viacha also contained elongated skulls (pictured) that may have been stretched to differentiate the social rank of individuals

The cemetery carved into limestone appears to have been built by the Pacajes people, whose cities were conquered by the Incas toward the end of the 15th century

Bolivian Minister of Culture Wilma Alanoca called it an 'unprecedented discovery.'

The site was excavated months ago, but the findings were not made public until this week.

Professor Sagarnaga said that in addition to the bones, the burial site held more than 150 decorative bronze objects.

These included necklaces, bracelets, ornaments for women's hair, large broaches, and two horseshoe-shaped headbands used by nobles.

'These were personal favourites of the deceased, whereas the vessels were more for the community,' Professor Sagarnaga said.

The archaeologist said the site had been looted in the past, but the tombs are interesting because they held the remains of men and women from different social strata.

The remains were taken to an archaeological centre for further study and will eventually be returned to a museum in Viacha.

Jedu Sadarnaga shows jewelry on Thursday from one of the tombs found at a Bolivian quarry near the capital of La Paz. Professor Sagarnaga said that in addition to the bones, the burial site held more than 150 decorative bronze objects

Pictured is an elongated skull. The archaeologist said the site had been looted in the past, but the tombs are interesting because they held the remains of men and women from different social strata

The remains were taken to an archaeological centre for further study and will eventually be returned to a museum in Viacha

Earlier this year, researchers found that head-shaping practices may have provided a symbolic basis for the cooperation of elite groups during an era of intense conflict.

Important members of the ancient Collagua group in Peru practiced head-shaping, and a stretched, elongated look became a status symbol for elite Collagua, researchers found.

The Collagua, who lived in the Colca Valley of southeastern Peru, likely modified the heads of babies using bandages or special hats, in order to elongate their heads and create 'alien-shaped' skulls.

Chemical analyses of bones found that women with elongated heads ate a wide range of foods.

In addition, Collagua women with stretched skulls were found to have suffered far less skull damage from physical attacks than women who did not have similarly modified skulls.

====== 1479 ========

FACEBOOK'S OWN TECHNOLOGY SPOTTED LESS THAN A FIFTH OF BULLYING POSTS

Facebook's technology is detecting just a tiny proportion of the abusive posts by bullies and trolls, it has emerged.

The firm said it had taken action on two million abusive posts in three months alone.

But just 15 per cent were detected by Facebook itself, with the company relying on users to root out the rest.

Artificial intelligence and algorithms fail to understand nuances in posts which might mean a message is abusive, the social network admitted.

Just 15 per cent of abusive posts are detected by Facebook itself. The stark figure came after the Duke of Cambridge called for social media firms to do more to fight cyberbullying [File photo]

The revelations came a day after Prince William accused social media giants of allowing ‘bile and hate’ to remain online.

A Facebook ‘transparency report’ published on Thursday night contained data relating to bullying for the first time.

Online trolling could be ‘especially harmful to minors’, the site admitted. But it added: ‘Bullying and harassment are highly personal by nature.

In many instances, we need a person to report this behaviour to us before we can identify or remove it.’

Of the 2.1million abusive posts which were spotted from July to September, a user had got in touch to raise concerns in 85 per cent of cases, the report found.

Prince William took a swipe at entrepreneurs such as Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, appearing to accuse them of putting profits over values. He said: ‘For too many families, phones and social media shattered the sanctity and protection of our home'

The small number spotted by Facebook tools means millions of similar posts are likely to remain up.

Online hate can lead to tragedy, as the Daily Mail reported yesterday. Writing in the paper, Lucy Alexander told how her son Felix took his own life at 17 after years of bullying. She said social media kicked in when Felix was around 14 ‘and the bullying became unstoppable’.

The stark figures in Facebook’s report come after the Duke of Cambridge called for social media firms to do more to fight cyberbullying.

William said: ‘For too many families, phones and social media shattered the sanctity and protection of our home.

‘I am worried that our technology companies still have a great deal to learn about the responsibilities that come with their significant power.’

He took a swipe at entrepreneurs such as Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, appearing to accuse them of putting profits over values.

The US billionaire swerved a question about the royal’s comments during a media call on Thursday night, reeling off site rules instead.

Following a brief pause, he said: ‘We are going out of our way to proactively enforce the policies using this combination of AI systems and just dramatically growing the review team.

‘There’s also a big issue, on social networks, and in media more broadly, which is that people are just more likely to engage with more sensationalist and provocative and sometimes more negative content. We think that is bad.’

Earlier in the conversation, he had likened protecting the site to tackling soaring crime.

He said: ‘No one expects crime to be eliminated completely, but you expect things will get better over time. When you connect more than two billion people, you’re going to see all the good and the bad of humanity.

'These really are not issues that you ever fix. They are issues that you manage over time – and we need to get them to a good level.

Online trolling could be ‘especially harmful to minors’, the site admitted. But it added: ‘Bullying and harassment are highly personal by nature. In many instances, we need a person to report this behaviour to us before we can identify or remove it' [File photo]

‘But the expectation that we should have is that there are going to be ongoing content issues.

‘If we are giving people a voice, some people are going to be posting bad stuff.’

The transparency report also revealed the reams of disturbing material being posted on Facebook.

From July to September nine million posts containing sexualised or abusive images of children were taken down. Facebook’s technology was able to find 99 per cent of them.

The site is also still being used by scores of online trolls and ‘bad actors’ hiding behind fake accounts, with 1.5billion taken down in the last six months alone.

The figure equates to half of the site’s monthly user base.

====== 1480 ========

AIR POLLUTION IS SHAVING YEARS OFF PEOPLE’S LIVES, REPORT REVEALS

People around the world are losing years of their lives to air pollution, a new report reveals.

A new study from the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago (EPIC) found that pollution takes an average of 1.8 years of people's lives around the globe.

The World Health Organization (WHO) released guidelines over a decade ago suggesting maximum 'healthy' levels of air pollution, but as of right now, almost every low- and middle-income country and half of high income ones are 'unhealthy.'

The effects of pollution are most devastating in the most crowded cities in the most populous countries - India and China.

Americans, too, would live longer if the country complied with the World Health Organization's pollution recommendations, but have managed to get back about a year and a half of lie expectancy thanks to clean air policies, the new report found.

Urban areas in the US have curbed their smog production, regaining an an average of 1.5 years of life expectancy back, a new University of Chicago report found

If you've ever visited a smoggy city - like New York City, Los Angeles or Beijing - then you've probably felt the effects of air pollution, even it you didn't know it was the cause.

Tiny bits of matter floating around in the air make the air literally thicker, and irritate your lungs.

That, in turn, forces your heart to work harder to keep up. You might notice yourself getting short of breath after walking shorter distances, or even coughing or wheezing on particularly bad days.

Cities with significant industrial areas are particularly hard on asthma sufferers, young children, the elderly and those who have to be outside for extended periods of time.

If you go inside, or return to your home town you will likely recover quickly. But the effects add up - especially for city-dwellers who are constantly exposed to bad air.

Air pollution - and in particular, fine particulate matter that lodges itself in the lungs - damages your cells, keeps your lungs from taking in as much oxygen as they would otherwise be able to, and weakens the immune system's ability to fight off infection.

Breathing these particles also raises risks for heart and lung diseases.

The cumulative effect is a shorter life span - and we are only robbing ourselves of more years of life as time goes on and pollution keeps filling our skies.

Fine particulate matter (PM) is many times smaller than a grain of sand, making it easy to inhale and get lodged in the lungs

Air pollution is thought to contribute to 6.7 percent of deaths in the world and is responsible for seven million annual deaths, according to WHO data.

Those early deaths drive down the global life expectancy, which has now fallen to 69 years for males and 71.1 years for females.

And air pollution is now doing more to drive down those numbers than just about any other public health concern - including smoking, alcohol and drugs, poor sanitation, road injuries, HIV/AIDS, malaria tuberculosis or conflict and terrorism, according to the new report.

That might level out if only we could get our levels of fine particulate matter down to the what the WHO has recommended, but doing so would take time, policies and finances that so far the world as a whole has struggled to commit.

The US, whose post-World War II industrial boom once made it a leading polluter, has actually made considerable progress since 1970, the new report found.

That year, that Clean Air Act created air quality standards that factories had to adhere to.

As a result, American air pollution was cut in half by 1980. Progress has continued, but slowed.

Globally, air pollution shaves off more years of people's lives than any other major public health concern, including smoking, alcohol and drug use and wars

EPIC estimates that American's are exposed to 60 percent less air pollution today than we were in 1970.

So even as the opioid epidemic is driving American life expectancy down, we have nearly eliminated the effect of particulate matter.

Nearly 40 years ago, pollution shortened American life spans by more than a year and a half. Now, it takes away just 0.1 years of life, EPIC's report says.

On more local levels, the 'smog capitol of the world,' Los Angeles, has improved so much that its residents got back a year of life expectancy, New Yorkers and Chicagoans got two years back, and Washington, DC, area residents got almost three.

In total, the US has regained 325 million years of life thanks to improved air quality.

China, another titan of industry, was much slower to take up standards to restrict pollution.

But in 2013, a report revealed that people in the more polluted Northern part of China were dying five years earlier than their Southern counterparts.

A year later, the Chinese Premier declared 'a war on pollution.'

With hundreds of billions of dollars of investment behind the effort, China aimed to reduce particulate matter by 10 percent by 2017.

By 2016, air pollution had been diminished by 12 percent, and Chinese citizens gained back 1.2 years of life.

Southeast Asia has by far the highest concentration of PM 2.5 in its air, the new report shows

The EPIC report authors call this 'winning its 'War on Pollution.'

Despite this progress, China and India still see the greatest loss of expected years of life. Together, they account for about 73 percent of the world's total years of life lost due to air pollution, according to the new report.

India faces the most dire air quality situation. There, meting the WHO's guidelines on fine particulate matter would give citizens back 4.3 years of life.

Study co-author Dr Michael Greenstone believes that these tangible measures of pollution's effects are crucial to getting policy changes made.

So with the new report he is introducing the 'Air Quality Life Index' to do just that.

'While people can stop smoking and take steps to protect themselves from diseases, there is little they can individually do to protect themselves from the air they breathe,' Dr Greenstone said.

'The AQLI tells citizens and policymakers how particulate pollution is affecting them and their communities and reveals the benefits of policies to reduce particulate pollution.'

====== 1481 ========

COLD WEATHER AND LONG NIGHTS MAKES PEOPLE DRINK MORE ALCOHOL

People who live in countries with less sunlight and lower temperatures drink more alcohol than those in warmer regions.

A study found a link between average temperature and hours of sunlight and alcohol consumption.

It also found that inhabitants of chillier, darker countries were more likely to resort to binge drinking, with Brits being revealed as one of the worst offenders for excessive consumption.

Scroll down for video

A Scottish doctor is now calling for restrictions in alcohol advertising during winter months. Dr McCann said: 'Advertising laws should be addressed with restrictions during winter months strongly considered'

The research from the Pittsburgh Liver Research Centre examined data from 193 countries and found evidence that climate was also linked to liver disease.

Senior author Ramon Bataller, associate director of the Pittsburgh Liver Research Centre, said: 'This is the first study that systematically demonstrates that worldwide and in America, in colder areas and areas with less sun, you have more drinking and more alcoholic cirrhosis.'

Alcohol is a vasodilator, relaxing blood vessels and increasing the flow of warm blood to the skin.

Drinking also is linked to depression, which tends to be more prevalent when sunlight is scarce.

The study, published online in Hepatology, used data from the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the World Meteorological Organisation.

Dr Peter McCann, medical adviser to Castle Craig Hospital, a residential drug and alcohol rehabilitation clinic in the Scottish Borders, contributed to the report.

He said: 'We now have new evidence that the weather, and in particular the temperature and amount of sunlight that we are exposed to, has a strong influence on how much alcohol we consume.

'Furthermore this weather-related alcohol consumption is directly linked to our chances of developing the most dangerous form of liver disease – cirrhosis – which can ultimately end in liver failure and death.'

Researchers say they have established a link between colder climates and heavier drinking. Alcohol is a vasodilator, relaxing blood vessels and increasing the flow of blood. Drinking also is linked to depression, which is more prevalent when sunlight is scarce

Dr McCann added: 'Stricter laws on alcohol pricing are surely justified when we consider the devastating combined effect of low sunlight and cheaper alcohol on consumption.

'Advertising laws should be addressed with restrictions during winter months strongly considered.'

Evidence of the climate link comes as the WHO presents new data on alcohol consumption in Europe at a summit in Edinburgh on Monday.

It says levels remain high and that almost half of the adult male population are at risk of both short and long-term health and social problems due to harmful drinking patterns.

Earlier this year, legislation on minimum pricing for alcohol came into force in Scotland in a bid to tackle problem drinking.

====== 1482 ========

STUNNING WATERCOLOUR FRESCO DISCOVERED IN THE ANCIENT RUINS OF POMPEII

What happened?

Mount Vesuvius erupted in the year AD 79, burying the cities of Pompeii, Oplontis, and Stabiae under ashes and rock fragments, and the city of Herculaneum under a mudflow.

Mount Vesuvius, on the west coast of Italy, is the only active volcano in continental Europe and is thought to be one of the most dangerous volcanoes in the world.

Every single resident died instantly when the southern Italian town was hit by a 500°C pyroclastic hot surge.

Pyroclastic flows are a dense collection of hot gas and volcanic materials that flow down the side of an erupting volcano at high speed.

They are more dangerous than lava because they travel faster, at speeds of around 450mph (700 km/h), and at temperatures of 1,000°C.

An administrator and poet called Pliny the younger watched the disaster unfold from a distance.

Letters describing what he saw were found in the 16th century.

His writing suggests that the eruption caught the residents of Pompeii unaware.

Mount Vesuvius erupted in the year AD 79, burying the cities of Pompeii, Oplontis, and Stabiae under ashes and rock fragments, and the city of Herculaneum under a mudflow

He said that a column of smoke 'like an umbrella pine' rose from the volcano and made the towns around it as black as night.

People ran for their lives with torches, screaming and some wept as rain of ash and pumice fell for several hours.

While the eruption lasted for around 24 hours, the first pyroclastic surges began at midnight, causing the volcano's column to collapse.

An avalanche of hot ash, rock and poisonous gas rushed down the side of the volcano at 124mph (199kph), burying victims and remnants of everyday life.

Hundreds of refugees sheltering in the vaulted arcades at the seaside in Herculaneum, clutching their jewellery and money, were killed instantly.

The Orto dei fuggiaschi (The garden of the Fugitives) shows the 13 bodies of victims who were buried by the ashes as they attempted to flee Pompeii during the 79 AD eruption of the Vesuvius volcano

As people fled Pompeii or hid in their homes, their bodies were covered by blankets of the surge.

While Pliny did not estimate how many people died, the event was said to be 'exceptional' and the number of deaths is thought to exceed 10,000.

What have they found?

This event ended the life of the cities but at the same time preserved them until rediscovery by archaeologists nearly 1700 years later.

The excavation of Pompeii, the industrial hub of the region and Herculaneum, a small beach resort, has given unparalleled insight into Roman life.

Archaeologists are continually uncovering more from the ash-covered city.

In May archaeologists uncovered an alleyway of grand houses, with balconies left mostly intact and still in their original hues.

A plaster cast of a dog, from the House of Orpheus, Pompeii, AD 79. Around 30,000 people are believed to have died in the chaos, with bodies still being discovered to this day

Some of the balconies even had amphorae - the conical-shaped terra cotta vases that were used to hold wine and oil in ancient Roman times.

The discovery has been hailed as a 'complete novelty' - and the Italian Culture Ministry hopes they can be restored and opened to the public.

Upper stores have seldom been found among the ruins of the ancient town, which was destroyed by an eruption of Vesuvius volcano and buried under up to six metres of ash and volcanic rubble.

Around 30,000 people are believed to have died in the chaos, with bodies still being discovered to this day.

====== 1483 ========

'ONE DAY AMAZON WILL GO BANKRUPT': JEFF BEZOS WARNS STAFF RETAIL GIANT IS 'NOT TOO BIG TO FAIL'

Amazon boss Jeff Bezos has warned staff not to be complacent , claiming the firm 'is not too big to fail'

At an all-hands meeting last Thursday in Seattle, days before the firm announced the winners of its HQ2 contest, Bezos was asked about the recent failures of giant retailers like Sears.

'Amazon is not too big to fail,' Bezos said, in a recording of the meeting CNBC said it had heard.

Scroll down for video

At an all-hands meeting last Thursday in Seattle, days before the firm announced the winners of its HQ2 contest, Bezos was asked about the recent failures of giant retailers like Sears

'In fact, I predict one day Amazon will fail. Amazon will go bankrupt. If you look at large companies, their lifespans tend to be 30-plus years, not a hundred-plus years.'

Bezos told the meeting the key to survival is to 'obsess over customers'.

'If we start to focus on ourselves, instead of focusing on our customers, that will be the beginning of the end,' he said.

'We have to try and delay that day for as long as possible.'

However, Bezos said he had noticed one thing about firms that do last far longer.

'Most of the companies that are multi-hundred year old companies are breweries,' he said with a laugh. 'It's very interesting — I'm not sure what that says about society.'

The warning comes as Amazon prepares for a record holiday season.

Amazon is expected to capture 48 percent of all online sales in the U.S. this year, up from 43 percent in 2017, according to eMarketer.

On Tuesday Amazon announced the location of its new headquarters – one in Queens, New York, and another in Arlington, Virginia, causing outrage among many over the subsidies offered to cities in the 'beauty pageant'.

However, it is facing increased competition and is embroiled in a row with Donald Trump over taxes and use of the US Postal Service.

'I have stated my concerns with Amazon long before the Election,' President Trump recently tweeted.

'Unlike others, they pay little or no taxes to state & local governments, use our Postal System as their Delivery Boy (causing tremendous loss to the U.S.), and are putting many thousands of retailers out of business!'

Amazon is also dealing with a backlash from its own employees.

Pressure has been mounting for Amazon to cancel its contracts with ICE and law enforcement agents, which allow them to test out the facial recognition technology.

Employees plan to submit numerous questions on the topic of Rekognition, Amazon's facial recognition tech, with the hope that executives will have no chance but to answer them

In June, hundreds of Amazon employees penned a letter addressed to Bezos, titled 'We Won't Build It,' calling on him to end Amazon's Rekognition contracts with the police.

The letter detailed concerns around how the technology would be deployed, as well as the possibility for bias, citing 'historic militarization of police, renewed targeting of Black activists, and the growth of a federal deportation force currently engaged in human rights abuses.'

Employees also urged Amazon to end its relationship with Palantir, a controversial data company.

It comes as Amazon has defended its Rekognition tech, alongside growing concerns from groups like the American Civil Liberties Union.

Facial recognition is used by many technology companies, but activists say Amazon's system could lead to dangerous surveillance powers for law enforcement

WHAT HAS AMAZON SAID ABOUT ITS RECKOGNITION AI FACIAL RECOGNITION TOOL? Amazon has defended giving its Big Brother-style facial recognition tool to police following an outcry from civil rights groups. Amazon's facial recognition tool, dubbed 'Rekognition', is currently being used by law enforcement agencies in Oregon and Florida. In an emailed statement, however, the firm said it has ' many useful applications in the real world', such as locating lost children at amusement parks It also noted that the company 'requires that customers comply with the law and be responsible when they use' its software products. Speaking to the BBC, a spokesman said: 'Our quality of life would be much worse today if we outlawed new technology because some people could choose to abuse the technology. 'Imagine if customers couldn't buy a computer because it was possible to use that computer for illegal purposes?'

The ACLU claims the software guide for the AI 'reads like a user manual for authoritarian surveillance'.

But Amazon said 'quality of life would be much worse' if technologies such as this were blocked because of fears they may be misused.

It has pointed out that its tool has helped find lost children in the past, and claims it has great potential for fighting crime in future.

Amazon Rekognition has been used for a number of positive purposes already, the company claims.

This includes using the program to find children lost in amusement parks and identifying people who have been abducted.

However, Amazon is drawing the ire of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and other privacy advocates over the tool.

Amazon offers the technology to law enforcement for just $6 (£4.50) to $12 (£9) a month. It counts the Washington County Sheriff's Office in Oregon and the city of Orlando as customers

First released in 2016, Amazon has since been selling it on the cheap to several police departments around the US, listing the Washington County Sheriff's Office in Oregon and the city of Orlando, Florida among its customers.

Amazon offers the technology to law enforcement for just $6 (£4.50) to $12 (£9) a month.

Deputies in Oregon had been using Rekognition about 20 times per day - for example, to identify burglary suspects in store surveillance footage.

Last month, the agency adopted policies governing its use, noting that officers in the field can use real-time face recognition to identify suspects who are unwilling or unable to provide their own ID, or if someone's life is in danger.

'We are not mass-collecting. We are not putting a camera out on a street corner,' said Deputy Jeff Talbot, a spokesman for the sheriff's office.

'We want our local community to be aware of what we're doing, how we're using it to solve crimes - what it is and, just as importantly, what it is not.'

====== 1484 ========

ARE YOU AN INSTAGRAM ADDICT? DASHBOARD TELLS USERS HOW MUCH TIME THEY ARE REALLY SPENDING IN THE APP

Instagram wants to help you manage your time on the app.

The Facebook-owned social media firm has begun rolling out a new dashboard that shows you how many hours you spend using Instagram each day and even set time limits so that you don't become too addicted.

Instagram first announced it was launching a time management tool earlier this year.

Scroll down for video

Instagram has begun rolling out a new dashboard that shows you how many hours you spend using Instagram each day and even set time limits so that you don't become too addicted

HOW CAN YOU FIND OUT YOUR TIME SPENT ON INSTAGRAM? Go to your Instagram profile

Click on the 'Menu' button in the upper righthand corner

Tap on the 'Your Activity' button

A bar graph shows your Daily Average time spent on Instagram

To access it, click on the menu icon in the upper right-hand corner on your Instagram profile.

From there, tap on the 'Your Activity' button and that will show your daily average time spent on the app for the week.

It also shows a breakdown of each day and if you press and hold on a certain day, it will say your daily average use.

The feature provides a useful picture of which days your most often using the app during the week and when you should cut back on your Instagram use.

If you feel you need some help staying off Instagram, the dashboard has a Daily Reminder tool.

There, users can set a time limit for how many hours they can use the app each day.

When the timer expires, Instagram will serve up a push notification saying you've reached the end of your daily limit.

To access the new dashboard, click on the menu icon in the upper right-hand corner on your Instagram profile. From there, tap on the 'Your Activity' button to see your daily time spent

In addition, there's also Notification Settings, which let users mute push notifications from Instagram.

There, users can turn off notifications for likes, comments, when people start filming live videos and a slew of other features.

In August, Instagram said it would be launching new tools around helping people manage their time in the app.

The features are supposed to help educate people on their app usage, as well as how they interact on the social network.

Users can set a time limit for how many hours they can use the app each day. In addition, there's also Notification Settings, which let users mute push notifications from Instagram

HOW DO YOU CHECK HOW MUCH TIME YOU SPEND ON FACEBOOK AND INSTAGRAM? Facebook and Instagram users can now monitor how much time they spend within the app, thanks to new tools designed to improve your digital health. The new feature is found in the settings menu of each app. For Facebook users on iOS, tap on the three line symbol in the bottom-right corner of the app to launch the settings menu. Android users need to tap the same symbol, but will find it at the top-right. Scroll down the settings menu and tap on the 'Your Time on Facebook' option. For Instagram, users will need to load the settings page, and then scroll down to the option marked 'Your Activity'. Both apps include a breakdown of the exact number of minutes you've spent on Facebook and Instagram using a particular device. This data is presented in the style of a bar chat, with users able to tap any bar to see the total time spent for that particular day. Scrolling further down the page, Facebook and Instagram include the option to set a daily reminder that sends an alert after you've reached the amount of time you want to spend on the app for that day. You can change or cancel the reminder at any time by heading back to the same settings menu. In the same settings menu on Instagram and Facebook, you can tap on 'Notification Settings' to access an updated 'Mute Push Notifications' tool. This lets you mute all notifications from the social network app for a predetermined period of time.

Facebook has talked about launching its own tools, called 'Your time on Facebook,' but those have yet to appear in the app.

Similarly, Facebook's time management features let users see a bar graph breakdown of their daily average time spent on the app over the course of a week.

Users can also set time limits, manage notification settings and more.

Facebook director for the UK and Ireland Steve Hatch said the tools would help raise awareness of how people are spending their time online.

'We all recognise that technology is playing a greater role in our daily lives,' he said.

A new Facebook tool helps users tracks the time they spend on the app. The features include a breakdown of the total number of minutes spent on the social network each day (left). Users will be able to set themselves time limits to limit their social network usage (right)

'We feel a responsibility to help ensure that time on Facebook is time well spent.'

It comes as a wave of other tech giants have also launched time management tools.

Apple released 'Screen Time' in iOS 12, which lets users see how much time they're spending on all their apps.

They can also see which apps are sending the most notifications and how often they're picking up their iPhone.

Google also launched its suite of 'Digital Wellbeing' tools, which include parental controls, how much time you've spent on specific apps and other features.

====== 1485 ========

RIP KEPLER: NASA SENDS FINAL 'GOODNIGHT' COMMAND TO SHUT DOWN PLANET-HUNTING SPACECRAFT

NASA has finally shut down its planet-hunting Kepler spacecraft.

The space agency confirmed on the evening of Thursday, Nov. 15, Kepler received its final set of commands to disconnect communications with Earth - nine years after it blasted off.

The 'goodnight' commands finalize the spacecraft's transition into retirement, which began on Oct. 30 with NASA's announcement that Kepler had run out of fuel and could no longer conduct science.

Scroll down for video

NASA's planet-hunting Kepler spacecraft has died in orbit after a historic nine-year campaign that revealed the existence of thousands of distant worlds

Kepler's 'goodnight' falls on the same date as the 388-year anniversary of the death of its namesake, German astronomer Johannes Kepler, who discovered the laws of planetary motion and passed away on Nov. 15, 1630.

The final commands were sent over NASA's Deep Space Network from Kepler's operations center at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics, or LASP, at the University of Colorado in Boulder.

LASP runs the spacecraft's operations on behalf of NASA and Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corporation in Boulder, Colorado.

Kepler's team disabled the safety modes that could inadvertently turn systems back on, and severed communications by shutting down the transmitters.

Because the spacecraft is slowly spinning, the Kepler team had to carefully time the commands so that instructions would reach the spacecraft during periods of viable communication.

Kepler was the first spacecraft to survey the planets in our own galaxy, and over the years its observations confirmed the existence of more than 2,600 exoplanets - many of which could be key targets in the search for alien life

The team will monitor the spacecraft to ensure that the commands were successful.

The spacecraft is now drifting in a safe orbit around the Sun, 94 million miles away from Earth.

Kepler, which launched back in 2009, came to be known by its team as 'the little spacecraft that could,' going above and beyond the expectations NASA had for it.

It was the first spacecraft to survey the planets in our own galaxy, and over the years its observations confirmed the existence of more than 2,600 exoplanets - many of which could be key targets in the search for alien life.

Before Kepler, we'd never found any planets outside of our solar system.

'As NASA's first planet-hunting mission, Kepler has wildly exceeded all our expectations and paved the way for our exploration and search for life in the solar system and beyond,' said Thomas Zurbuchen, associate administrator of NASA's Science Mission Directorate in Washington.

'Not only did it show us how many planets could be out there, it sparked an entirely new and robust field of research that has taken the science community by storm,' Zurbuchen said.

NASA predicted Kepler would run out of fuel sometime in the near future – but, exactly when this would happen was unclear. The agency has now confirmed the spacecraft is officially dead

'Its discoveries have shed a new light on our place in the universe, and illuminated the tantalizing mysteries and possibilities among the stars.'

The Kepler data indicated that there were far more planets in the sky than we'd ever imagined. According to NASA, we now know there are more planets than stars.

Kepler successfully transmitted data from its final observation campaign back to Earth at the beginning of October. All of this is now in the archive and publicly available, the Kepler team says.

During this so-called Deep Space Network time, however, when Kepler was pointed toward Earth to beam its data home, the team learned that the spacecraft had transitioned to its no-fuel-use sleep mode.

At the time, the team said it is assessing the cause and 'evaluating possible next steps.'

But following their investigation, the team concluded it was time to officially retire the craft.

During its long-running mission, however, the team says Kepler was 'stunningly successful.

The Kepler data indicated that there were far more planets in the sky than ever imagined. According to NASA, we now know there are more planets than stars. An artist's concept of Kepler-186f, the first known Earth-size planet in the habitable zone, is shown

Kepler showed us that 'we live in a galaxy that's teeming with planets, and we're ready to take the next step to explore those planets,' said Padi Boyd, a scientist with the upcoming TESS mission, which will serve as Kepler's successor.

'It has revolutionized our understanding of our place in the cosmos,' NASA's astrophysics director Paul Hertz said.

'Now we know because of the Kepler Space Telescope and its science mission that planets are more common than stars in our galaxy.'

The Kepler mission ran into complications four years after it launched, when mechanical failures temporarily halted its work.

WHAT WERE KEPLER'S TOP FIVE DISCOVERIES? Launched in 2009, the Kepler telescope has helped in the search for planets outside of the solar system. The satellite typically looks for 'Earth-like' planets, meaning they are rocky and orbit within the that orbit within the habitable or 'Goldilocks' zone of a star. If a planet sits within a habitable zone it means it is not too hot or too cold for water to have formed at the planet's surface, one of the key conditions for life. While the planet has found thousands of exoplanets during its eight-year mission, five in particular have stuck out. Kepler-452b, dubbed 'Earth 2.0', shares many characteristics with our planet despite sitting 1,400 light years away. It was found by Nasa's Kepler telescope in 2014 1) 'Earth 2.0' In 2014 the telescope made one of its biggest discoveries when it spotted exoplanet Kepler-452b, dubbed 'Earth 2.0'. The object shares many characteristics with our planet despite sitting 1,400 light years away. It has a similar size orbit to Earth, receives roughly the same amount of sun light and has same length of year. Experts still aren't sure whether the planet hosts life, but say if plants were transferred there, they would likely survive. 2) The first planet found to orbit two stars Kepler found a planet that orbits two stars, known as a binary star system, in 2011. The system, known as Kepler-16b, is roughly 200 light years from Earth. Experts compared the system to the famous 'double-sunset' pictured on Luke Skywalker's home planet Tatooine in 'Star Wars: A New Hope'. The Trappist-1 star system (artist's impression), which hosts a record seven Earth-like planets, was one of the biggest discoveries of 2017. Kepler spotted the system in 2016, but scientists revealed the find in a series of papers released in February this year 3) Finding the first habitable planet outside of the solar system Scientists found Kepler-22b in 2011, the first habitable planet found by astronomers outside of the solar system. The habitable super-Earth appears to be a large, rocky planet with a surface temperature of about 72°F (22°C), similar to a spring day on Earth. 4) Discovering a 'super-Earth' The telescope found its first 'super-Earth' in April 2017, a huge planet called LHS 1140b. It orbits a red dwarf star around 40 million light years away, and scientists think it holds giant oceans of magma. 5) Finding the 'Trappist-1' star system The Trappist-1 star system, which hosts a record seven Earth-like planets, was one of the biggest discoveries of 2017. Each of the planets, which orbit a dwarf star just 39 million light years, likely holds water at its surface. Three of the planets have such good conditions that scientists say life may have already evolved on them. Kepler spotted the system in 2016, but scientists revealed the discovery in a series of papers released in February this year.

At the time, the spacecraft had already completed its primary mission objectives.

The team ultimately managed to salvage Kepler by switching its field of view roughly every three months, allowing it to move on to an extended mission dubbed K2.

The spacecraft continued to search for possible orbiting planets, looking for dips in brightness as a planet transits its star.

'It was like trying to detect a flea crawling across a car headlight when the car was 100 miles away,' said retired NASA scientist William Boruki, who led the original Kepler science team.

Kepler completed 18 missions after embarking on its K2 phase.

NASA says it 'pushed Kepler to its full potential' before its demise, with multiple observation campaigns and thousands of planet discoveries.

Before Kepler, we'd never found any planets outside of our solar system. Exoplanet Kepler-1625b with a hypothesized moon is illustrated in the image above

The space agency will use the data from Campaign 19 – Kepler's final observations – to complement that collected by its Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite (TESS) mission, which launched this past April.

And, given the bountiful data Kepler has collected over the years, the team says there's still much more to learn in the spacecraft's legacy.

'We know the spacecraft's retirement isn't the end of Kepler's discoveries,' said Jessie Dotson, Kepler's project scientist at NASA's Ames Research Center in California's Silicon Valley.

'I'm excited about the diverse discoveries that are yet to come from our data and how future missions will build upon Kepler's results.'

====== 1486 ========

MASSIVE SECURITY BREACH EXPOSES 26 MILLION SMS TEXT MESSAGES CONTAINING PRIVATE CUSTOMER DATA

A massive data breach has exposed tens of millions of SMS text messages.

The breach involved a database of 26 million text messages, some of which included private customer data like password reset information, shipping notifications and two-factor authentication codes,TechCrunch reported.

The database was operated by Voxox, a California-based communications firm.

Making matters worse, the database wasn't even password protected, according to Sebastian Kaul, a Berlin-based security researcher who discovered the vulnerability.

Scroll down for video

A massive data breach has exposed tens of millions of SMS text messages. The breach involved a database of 26 million text messages and it wasn't even password protected

HOW WERE 26 MILLION TEXTS EXPOSED? A security researcher discovered a database of 26 million SMS messages. The database is operated by Voxox, a California-based communications firm. The firm acts as a middle man between app developers and users' phones. Many of the messages included plain-text passwords, account reset links and two-factor authentication codes. Each message in the database was tagged with the recipient's phone number, included the message and noted which Voxox customer had sent the message. The database has since been taken offline.

Kaul stumbled upon the database and found that not only was it without a password, but was searchable for both names and phone numbers.

Voxox acts as a middle man between app developers and users' phones.

For example, when someone requests to change their password, the app may send an account reset link or code to the person's phone.

Voxox converts those codes into text messages that are then delivered to the user's phone.

The database also included text messages sent to customers from companies like Google, Amazon and Microsoft.

Worryingly, the database was still live even after the vulnerability was discovered, which means that savvy hackers could monitor any password reset requests or two-factor authentication codes and use that to get into a user's account, if they had all the right credentials.

The database was found to be operated by Voxox. Among the many messages, it included ones sent to customers from companies like Microsoft, Amazon and Google

Many two-factor authentication and reset codes are only usable for a short period of time, but if intercepted at the right time, hackers could have used them.

TechCrunch later contacted Voxox about the issue and the firm pulled the database offline.

The firm added that it's 'looking into the issue and following standard data breach policy at the moment,' as well as 'evaluating the impact.'

TechCrunch also observed what kinds of data were passing through Voxox's database in real time.

Each record in the database was tagged with the recipient's phone number, included the message and noted which Voxox customer had sent the message.

HOW CAN I CHOOSE A SECURE PASSWORD? According to internet security provider Norton, 'the shorter and less complex your password is, the quicker it can be for the program to come up with the correct combination of characters. The longer and more complex your password is, the less likely the attacker will use the brute force method, because of the lengthy amount of time it will take for the program to figure it out. 'Instead, they'll use a method called a dictionary attack, where the program will cycle through a predefined list of common words that are used in passwords.' Here are some steps to follow when creating a new password: DO: Use a combination of numbers, symbols, uppercase and lowercase letters

Ensure that the password is at least eight characters long

Use abbreviated phrases for passwords

Change your passwords regularly

Log out of websites and devices after you have finished using them DO NOT: Choose a commonly used password like '123456', 'password', 'qwerty' or '111111'

Use a solitary word. Hackers can use dictionary-based systems to crack passwords

Use a derivative of your name, family member's name, pet's name, phone number, address or birthday

Write your password down, share it or let anyone else use your login details

Answer 'yes' when asked to save your password to a computer browser

Among the many texts, one included a password to a Badoo dating app account, while several messages included password reset codes to Microsoft and Huawei accounts.

The breach highlights the vulnerabilities of using text-based two-factor authentication, or sending account reset links over SMS.

Many security experts recommend app-based two-factor authentication, which tends to be safer than SMS-based verification.

Another option is to use an authentication app like 1Password, which has a built-in two-factor authentication code generator.

====== 1487 ========

ELON MUSK'S 'STARLINK' SPACE INTERNET PLAN MOVES ONE STEP CLOSER TO REALITY

Elon Musk's plan to provide a global internet via an enormous network of orbiting satellites is one step closer to reality.

The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has approved plans from the billionaire entrepreneur to deploy 7,518 additional broadband satellites for the Skylink project.

This takes the total number of possible satellites for the ambitious plan of the SpaceX founder up to 11,943.

SpaceX's Starlink broadband service will use these additional satellites in a close-Earth orbit to 'boost capacity and reduce latency in heavily populated areas'.

SpaceX intends to eventually develop the infrastructure of Skylink and deploy it on colonised planets, such as Mars.

The proposal was unanimously accepted by the US body and they said in a draft that the satellites would operate on frequencies between 37.5 and 42GHz to communicate between space and Earth.

'After review of the record, we conclude that granting of the SpaceX application will serve the public interest,' the FCC said.

Full acceptance is still dependent upon Starlink meeting strict criteria pertaining to power consumption, potential interference with other stems and minimising space junk.

Each satellite in SpaceX's planned group will weigh about 850 lbs (386 kg).

The original 4,425 satellites will orbit at altitudes ranging from 715 miles (1,150 km) to 790 miles (1,275 km).

From this height each satellite will be able to cover an area on the ground about around 1,300 miles (2,120 km) wide.

Musk has also claimed that SpaceX's broadband network will have latencies of only 25ms at this distance.

Starlink's latest batch of satellites would orbit even closer to Earth at altitudes of between 208 miles and 215 miles (335km and 346km).

The project, which Musk previously said would cost at least $10 billion (£8.03 billion), was first announced in January 2015.

Professor Mark Handley from University College London devised a detailed clip of how the SpaceX project will likely operate.

The seven-minute footage shows 32 different orbital planes with 50 satellites rotating on each.

Detailed: Professor Mark Handley from University College London has devised a detailed clip of how the SpaceX project will probably operate in the solar system

Visualisation: The seven-minute footage, which will be presented at a conference next week, shows 32 different orbital planes with 50 satellites rotating on each

It illustrates the most likely way they'll be be positioned - and how they'll interact with one another to avoid collisions.

Mr Handley based his visualisation on information from Musk's public documents to the US Federal Communications Commission.

'I wanted to understand what it might mean for the future of the Internet, and whether it would work well enough to pay for itself,' Mr Handley told MailOnline.

'To do this, I wrote a computer simulation based one what is in public filings, and filled in the rest from basic physics and my knowledge of networking.

'If they can build it, and I think they probably can, then it promises to revolutionise the Internet, giving good connectivity anywhere on Earth.'

The video also suggests there'll be a density of satellites over London, Paris, New York and Frankfurt at latitudes between 47 and 52 degrees.

Expensive ambitions: The SpaceX project, which Musk previously said would cost at least $10 billion (£8.03 billion), was first announced in January 2015 and launched satellites in February

Realistic: Mr Handley based his visualisation on information from Musk's public documents to the US Federal Communications Commission, who previously approved the project

This, Mr Handley adds, is because it's likely to serve financiers foremost.

'The real question though is who will pay for it? What the simulations show is that this network can signicantly cut the communications delay for long distance traffic,' he said.

'That's nice for video conferencing and gaming, but it's crucial for the finance industry. In that business, if you know something a few milliseconds before anyone else, you can make money.

'So I think that this network will be paid for by the finance industry, who probably won't have a choice whether to use it - if they don't, they'll lose money to the companies that do.

'And on the back of that, it will suddenly become cost effective to do things like putting solar powered cell towers that connect via Starlink in the middle of remote parts of Africa, enabling them to gain access to information the rest of us take for granted.'

====== 1488 ========

THE FACIAL RECOGNITION SOFTWARE THAT COULD IDENTIFY THOUSANDS OF FACES IN CIVIL WAR PHOTOGRAPHS

Facial recognition is being used to identify American Civil War soldiers who may have otherwise been lost in the sands of time.

Computer scientist and history buff Kurt Luther created a free-to-use website, called Civil War Photo Sleuth, that uses facial recognition technology to cross-reference vintage photographs with a database and hopefully assign a name to unknown subjects.

Luther was inspired to launch the website after he stumbled upon a wartime portrait of his great-great-uncle, who was a Union corporal in the Civil War.

Scroll down for video

Civil War Photo Sleuth uses facial recognition technology to cross-reference vintage photographs with a database and hopefully assign a name to unknown subjects

HOW DOES THE WEBSITE WORK? Users upload photos to Civil War Photo Sleuth. They tag a number of identifiers in the photo, such as unit and rank insignia, photographer details and inscriptions. Then, the site's facial recognition technology goes to work, mapping as many as 27 'facial landmarks.' It uses those facial landmarks to compare the photo to the more than 10,000 identified photos in the site's archive. Once it finishes cross-referencing, the site will serve up a slate of possible matches and names. It was able to identify 88 persons in photographs over the course of just a single month.

The American Civil War lasted from 1861 to 1865.

In a Medium post, Luther described the moment he came across the photograph of his ancestor at an exhibit titled 'Pennsylvania's Civil War' at Pittsburgh's Heinz History Center in 2013.

'A modest display case in one corner of the exhibit held a remarkable leather-bound album of cartes de visite,' Luther wrote.

'...My eyes fixed on the inscription above the right-most image: 'Croxton, Dead 1880.'

'Below it, a seated Union corporal, wearing a sack coat, a full beard and a serious expression, gazed back at me.

'We couldn't believe our luck...I saw there, for the first time, my Civil War ancestor, great-great-great uncle Oliver, closing a gap of 150 years,' Luther said.

The experience prompted Luther to launch Civil War Photo Sleuth this summer.

To try it out, users upload an image to the site and tag it with any visible identifiers that can be found in the photo, such as unit and rank insignia, photographer details and inscriptions, according to Military Images.

Details such as these can make a world of a difference during attempts to identify someone.

Luther was inspired to launch the website this year after he stumbled upon a wartime portrait of his great-great-uncle, who was a Union corporal in the Civil War

To try it out, users upload an image to the site and tag it with any visible identifiers that can be found in the photo, such as unit and rank insignia, photographer details and inscriptions

For example, three chevrons and a star signifies a rank of ordinance sergeant for Union and Confederate armies, Slate noted.

Then, the site's facial recognition technology goes to work, mapping as many as 27 'facial landmarks.'

Computer scientist and history buff Kurt Luther created a free-to-use website, called Civil War Photo Sleuth (pictured)

It uses those facial landmarks to compare the photo to the more than 10,000 identified photos in the site's archive.

What's more, the facial recognition software isn't fazed by beards or sideburns - both of which were popular styles during the 19th century.

Once it finishes cross-referencing, the site will serve up a slate of possible matches and names.

'Our initial tests show that face recognition can truly find a needle in a haystack,' Luther explained.

'In just a few seconds, we can identify a mystery photo of an unknown soldier among more than 15,000 possibilities.'

Luther worked with Ron Coddington, the editor of Military Images magazine, Paul Quigley, the director of the Virginia Center for Civil War Studies and student researchers from from Virginia Tech, to create the site.

Pictured is Pvt. James M. Wetherbee, 83rd Illinois Infantry postwar (left) and wartime (right). A Civil War photo sleuth was able to identify the Civil War soldier

Luther was inspired to launch the website after he stumbled upon a wartime portrait of his great-great-uncle, who was a Union corporal in the Civil War. Pictured is his ancestor

Coddington believes there were about 40 million photos taken during the Civil War, giving them a sizable sample set to draw from for the archive.

'I once calculated that there were 40 million photographs of Union soldiers taken during the Civil War,' Coddington told Military Images.

'Even if only 10 percent survive, there are 4 million images out there today.'

Meanwhile, other experts estimate that only 10 to 20 percent of images collected during the Civil War have had their subjects identified.

Luther hopes Civil War Photo Sleuth can help boost that number to 100 percent.

So far, they've been pretty successful.

Pictured right is an example of an unidentified Civil War soldier. Left is Lt. James H. French, 100th NY Infantry. Civil War Photo Sleuth is able to identify subjects even if they have beards

Civil War Photo Sleuth logged roughly 88 matches in a single month, of which 75 percent were 'probably or definitely correct,' Luther said.

And the more people use it, the more likely it is that the site will be able to identify subjects, he added.

Ultimately, the site brings new life to Luther's hobby of Civil War photo sleuthing.

'It's important to give names to these faces,' Luther told Slate. 'Images are powerful, and they humanize these people who might otherwise just seem like names on a list or numbers in a casualty report.'

====== 1489 ========

ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IS RACIST AND SEXIST - BUT ONLY BECAUSE THEY ARE BEING FED THE WRONG DATA

An MIT study has revealed the way artificial intelligence system collect data often makes them racist and sexist.

Researchers looked at a range of systems, and found many of them exhibited a shocking bias.

The team then developed system to help researchers make sure their systems are less biased.

Scroll down for video

One example studied by MIT found an income-prediction system was twice as likely to misclassify female employees as low-income and male employees as high-income

'Computer scientists are often quick to say that the way to make these systems less biased is to simply design better algorithms,' said lead author Irene Chen, a PhD student who wrote the paper with MIT professor David Sontag and postdoctoral associate Fredrik D. Johansson.

'But algorithms are only as good as the data they're using, and our research shows that you can often make a bigger difference with better data.'

In one example, the team looked at an income-prediction system and found that it was twice as likely to misclassify female employees as low-income and male employees as high-income.

They found that if they had increased the dataset by a factor of 10, those mistakes would happen 40 percent less often.

In another dataset, the researchers found that a system's ability to predict intensive care unit (ICU) mortality was less accurate for Asian patients.

However, the researchers warned existing approaches for reducing discrimination would make the non-Asian predictions less accurate

Chen says that one of the biggest misconceptions is that more data is always better.

Instead, researchers should get more data from those under-represented groups.

'We view this as a toolbox for helping machine learning engineers figure out what questions to ask of their data in order to diagnose why their systems may be making unfair predictions,' says Sontag.

The team will present the paper in December at the annual conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS) in Montreal.

====== 1490 ========

ANCIENT CLAY PIPES FOUND IN VIRGINIA REVEAL SITE OF THE REAL FIRST THANKSGIVING

Archaeologists have discovered 400-year-old artifacts that could point to the location of the first Thanksgiving in America – an event that took place two years before the well-known celebration at Plymouth Rock.

According to the team, the first Thanksgiving was not that held in 1621 by the pilgrims that arrived on the Mayflower, but hundreds of miles away in 1619, by a short-lived colony that set sail from England years earlier.

Recent work at the Berkeley Plantation in Virginia has uncovered clues that hint at the site of this settlement on the banks of the James River, including clay tobacco pipes that show both Native American and English influence.

Archaeologists have discovered 400-year-old artifacts that could point to the location of the first Thanksgiving in America – an event that took place two years before the well-known celebration at Plymouth Rock (illustrated)

Upon arriving to the New World on December 4, 1619, the community that came to be known as Berkeley Hundred were instructed to celebrate their arrival with prayer, and vowed to do so on the same date each year after, documents discovered in the late 19th century show.

'We ordain that this day of our ships arrival, at the place assigned for plantation, in the land of Virginia, shall be yearly and perpetually kept holy as a day of Thanksgiving to Almighty God,' the settlers were instructed to say, according to National Geographic.

But just three years later, the entire colony was wiped out during a Native American uprising.

Now, researchers have found what could be evidence of their settlement.

‘We are able to find numerous geophysical anomalies, as well as early 17th century artifacts,’ says Professor Mark Horton, from the University of Bristol’s Department of Anthropology and Archaeology.

‘The most striking were clay tobacco pipes, of Native American manufacture, but closely following English designs, which have also been found in the earliest levels at Jamestown, founded in 1607,' Horton said.

‘While not the “smoking gun,” these finds are highly suggestive of Indian and English occupation.’

Recent work at the Berkeley Plantation in Virginia has uncovered clues that hint at the site of this settlement on the banks of the James River, including clay tobacco pipes that show both Native American and English influence

Upon arriving to the New World at the end of 1619, the community that came to be known as Berkeley Hundred celebrated their arrival at the James River site with prayer, and vowed to do so on the same date each year after

The experts say George Thorp, who led the Berkeley colony, had plans to work with and educate the Native Americans.

Thorp, however, was killed during the uprising in 1622.

While the team does not expect to find much in the way of buildings, as all would have been built from timber, they say the discovery of the artifacts lines up with the expectations of the two groups existing in the area at the same time.

The researchers also found a distillation still at the site, suggesting these colonists may have been the first to make corn-distilled liquor or Bourbon.

The team used ground-penetrating radar to find the buried remains of the short-lived Berkeley colony

WHO WERE THE BERKELEY HUNDRED? Researchers say a colony that set sail from England years before the Mayflower was the first to hold a Thanksgiving celebration in America. The colony, which came to be known as Berkeley Hundred, landed in Virginia near the James River. They were led by George Thorp, who had plans to work with and educate the Native Americans. Thorp, however, was killed during the uprising in 1622. Before then, the evidence suggests there was some degree of information exchange between the two. According to researchers excavating the site, clay pipes found there were 'of Native American manufacture, but closely following English designs.'

With further work at the site, the researchers are hoping to uncover more clues, including artifacts and even burials.

‘In this 400th anniversary year, we hope that it will be possible to link across the Atlantic and discover the motives and ideals of the pioneers that sailed in search of new lives in the New World,’ Horton said.

‘This is a dramatic story that took place in a dramatic time,’ said Dr Jim Horn, president of Jamestown Rediscovery.

‘A sustained dig here could be incredible.’

====== 1491 ========

CONTROVERSIAL INTERSTELLAR COMET 'OUMUAMUA IS FAR SMALLER THAN THOUGHT, NASA STUDY REVEALS

The bizarre interstellar object 'Oumuamua, which some have speculated could be an alien craft set to monitor us, is far smaller than thought.

A new NASA study uses the fact the object was too small for the infrared Spitzer telescope to spot to estimate its size.

Researchers now say cigar shaped 'Oumuamua is probably less than half a mile (2,600 feet, or 800 meters) in its longest dimension.

Scroll down for video

This photo released by the European Southern Observatory on November 20, 2017 shows an artist's impression of the first interstellar object known to enter our solar system: Oumuamua

HOW BIG IS 'OUMUAMUA? Researchers now say cigar shaped 'Oumuamua is probably less than half a mile (2,600 feet, or 800 meters) in its longest dimension. Using three separate models that make slightly different assumptions about the object's composition, Spitzer's non-detection limited 'Oumuamua's 'spherical diameter' to 1,440 feet (440 meters), 460 feet (140 meters) or perhaps as little as 320 feet (100 meters).

''Oumuamua has been full of surprises from day one, so we were eager to see what Spitzer might show,' said David Trilling, lead author on the new study and a professor of astronomy at Northern Arizona University.

'The fact that 'Oumuamua was too small for Spitzer to detect is actually a very valuable result.'

In November 2017, scientists pointed NASA's Spitzer Space Telescope toward the object known as 'Oumuamua — the first known interstellar object to visit our solar system.

The infrared Spitzer was one of many telescopes pointed at 'Oumuamua in the weeks after its discovery that October.

However, the 'non-detection' puts a new limit on how large the strange object can be.

The new size limit is consistent with the findings of a research paper published earlier this year, which suggested that outgassing was responsible for the slight changes in 'Oumuamua's speed and direction as it was tracked last year: The authors of that paper conclude the expelled gas acted like a small thruster gently pushing the object.

That determination was dependent on 'Oumuamua being relatively smaller than typical solar system comets.

Using three separate models that make slightly different assumptions about the object's composition, Spitzer's non-detection limited 'Oumuamua's 'spherical diameter' to 1,440 feet (440 meters), 460 feet (140 meters) or perhaps as little as 320 feet (100 meters).

The results are reported in a new study published today in the Astronomical Journal and coauthored by scientists at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California.

The new study also suggests that 'Oumuamua may be up to 10 times more reflective than the comets that reside in our solar system — a surprising result, according to the paper's authors.

But it may have had its surface refreshed through 'outgassing' when it made an extremely close approach to our Sun, a little more than five weeks before it was discovered.

In addition to sweeping away dust and dirt, some of the released gas may have covered the surface of 'Oumuamua with a reflective coat of ice and snow — a phenomenon that's also been observed in comets in our solar system.

'Oumuamua is on its way out of our solar system — almost as far from the Sun as Saturn's orbit — and is well beyond the reach of any existing telescopes.

'Usually, if we get a measurement from a comet that's kind of weird, we go back and measure it again until we understand what we're seeing,' said Davide Farnocchia, of the Center for Near Earth Object Studies (CNEOS) at JPL and a coauthor on both papers. 'But this one is gone forever; we probably know as much about it as we're ever going to know.'

Earlier this week the researcher who discovered a cigar-shaped interstellar rock zooming through our solar system has dismissed claims from Harvard University it could be an alien spacecraft.

The Harvard researchers noted in a pre-print of their article that it was an 'exotic scenario,' but that 'Oumuamua may be a fully operational probe sent intentionally to Earth vicinity by an alien civilization.'

However, Robert Weryk, who discovered the strange interstellar object in 2017 at the University of Hawaii's Institute for Astronomy, told CBC's Afternoon Drive their theory is 'a bit of wild speculation'.

WHAT IS A LIGHTSAIL? Much like the wind pushing a sailboat through water, solar sails rely on sunlight to propel vehicles through space. The sail captures constantly streaming solar particles, called photons, with giant sails built from a lightweight material. Over time, the buildup of these particles provides enough thrust for a spacecraft to travel in space. The JPL team has not yet worked out how to power the craft - and many of their ideas rely on technology that doesn't yet exist, such as this laser sail being developed by the Breakthrough project, which hopes to make to same trip to Alpha Centairi.

'I think it's a remnant from another solar system. It's just something that happened to run into us, and we were very lucky to have been operating the telescope that night and looking in that direction,' Weryk said.

Oumuamua, the first interstellar object known to enter our solar system, accelerated faster away from the Sun than expected, hence the notion that some kind of artificial sail that runs on sunlight - known as a light sail - may have helped push it through space.

'Currently there is an unexplained phenomena, namely, the excess acceleration of Oumuamua, which we show may be explained by the force of radiation pressure from the sun,' co-author and Harvard astrophysicist Shmuel Bialy said.

'However this requires the body to have a very large surface and be very thin, which is not encountered in nature.'

Their suggestion of an alien force at work went viral.

'Honestly, that's a bit of wild speculation,' Weryk said when asked about the paper by Harvard scientists Abraham Leob and Shmuel Bialy.

'(The Harvard researchers) decided to focus on another aspect of that, that it's an alien space craft and that it has a solar sail type material that's causing the non-gravitational trajectory. But we actually believe that's not true based on the data we obtained.'

The Harvard team hypothesize that Oumuamua​ 'may be a fully operational probe sent intentionally to Earth's vicinity by an alien civilization.'

Other astronomy experts aren't buying it either.

'Like most scientists, I would love there to be convincing evidence of alien life, but this isn't it,' said Alan Fitzsimmons, an astrophysicist at Queens University, Belfast.

'It has already been shown that its observed characteristics are consistent with a comet-like body ejected from another star system,' he told AFP.

'And some of the arguments in this study are based on numbers with large uncertainties.'

Katie Mack, a well-known astrophysicist at North Carolina State, also took issue with the alien hype.

'The thing you have to understand is: scientists are perfectly happy to publish an outlandish idea if it has even the tiniest sliver of a chance of not being wrong,' she wrote on Twitter.

'But until every other possibility has been exhausted dozen times over, even the authors probably don't believe it.'

Asked if he believed the hypothesis he put forward, Bialy told AFP:

'I wouldn't say I 'believe' it is sent by aliens, as I am a scientist, and not a believer, I rely on evidence to put forward possible physical explanation for observed phenomena.'

A photo released by the European Space Agency on June 27, 2018 shows an artist's impression of Oumuamua

The other co-author, Avi Loeb, chairman of Harvard's astronomy department, told NBC News humanity may never know more about the mysterious object, since it has traveled far away and isn't heading back.

'It is impossible to guess the purpose behind Oumuamua without more data,' Loeb was quoted as saying.

Their paper was accepted for publication in the Astrophysical Journal Letters, and will appear on November 12.

Oumuamua, Hawaiian for 'messenger' or 'scout,' was first viewed by telescopes in October 2017.

The alien rock is about 1,300 feet long (400 meters) long, and only about 130 feet wide.

====== 1492 ========

ALL GLASS ON EARTH STARTED LIFE INSIDE THE DYING EMBERS OF AN ANCIENT STAR

Wine glasses, windows and windscreens all started their life in the heart of a dying star that exploded in one of the most dramatic events in the universe; a supernova.

This violent death of a large star creates silica - the chemical which is found in sand and glass.

Silica has been observed throughout the universe but its origin has long remained a mystery to astronomers.

All atoms were stardust at some point in their life and this research confirms the role of stars in the manufacture of glass.

Scroll down for video

This violent death of a large star creates silica - the chemical which is found in sand and glass. Wine glasses, windows and windscreens all started their life in the heart of a dying star that exploded in one of the most dramatic events in the universe; a supernova.

Nasa's Spitzer Space Telescope was used to detected a 'fingerprint' of silica in two supernovae, Cassiopeia A and G54.1+0.3.

Researchers used the specific wavelength of light that it emitted to decipher the chemical composition of the celestial material.

Jeonghee Rho, an astronomer at the SETI Institute in California and lead author of the paper, was able to identify silica in the supernovae.

Dr Rho and her colleagues found that they are more likely to be shaped more like rugby balls than the commonly held thought that they are completely spherical.

Data from the European Space Agency's Herschel Space Observatory provided an estimate of the amount of silica that was produced by each explosion.

Silica makes up about 60 per cent of Earth's crust and has been found throughout the universe and in meteorites that predate our solar system.

One known source of cosmic dust is AGB stars, or stars about the mass of the Sun that are running out of fuel.

Nasa's Spitzer Space Telescope was used to detected a 'fingerprint' of silica in two supernovae, Cassiopeia A and G54.1+0.3. Researchers used the specific wavelength of light that it emitted to decipher the chemical composition of the celestial material (stock)

WHAT IS A SUPERNOVA AND HOW DOES IT FORM? A supernova occurs when a star explodes, shooting debris and particles into space. A supernova burns for only a short period of time, but it can tell scientists a lot about how the universe began. One kind of supernova has shown scientists that we live in an expanding universe, one that is growing at an ever increasing rate. Scientists have also determined that supernovas play a key role in distributing elements throughout the universe. In 1987, astronomers spotted a ‘titanic supernova’ in a nearby galaxy blazing with the power of over 100 million suns (pictured) There are two known types of supernova. The first type occurs in binary star systems when one of the two stars, a carbon-oxygen white dwarf, steals matter from its companion star. Eventually, the white dwarf accumulates too much matter, causing the star to explode, resulting in a supernova. The second type of supernova occurs at the end of a single star's lifetime. As the star runs out of nuclear fuel, some of its mass flows into its core. Eventually, the core is so heavy it can't stand its own gravitational force and the core collapses, resulting in another giant explosion. Many elements found on Earth are made in the core of stars and these elements travel on to form new stars, planets and everything else in the universe.

They then puff up to several times their original size to form a red giant star until it runs out of fuel at its core and collapses in on itself.

The rapid in-fall of matter creates an intense explosion that can fuse atoms together to create 'heavy' elements, like sulphur, calcium and silicon.

Co-author of the study Professor Haley Gomez, from Cardiff University's School of Physics and Astronomy, said: 'We've shown for the first time that the silica produced by the supernovae was significant enough to contribute to the dust throughout the Universe, including the dust that ultimately came together to form our home planet.

'Every time we gaze through a window, walk down the pavement or set foot on a sandy beach, we are interacting with material made by exploding stars that burned millions of years ago.'

The study was published in the Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society.

====== 1493 ========

ASTRONOMERS POISED FOR LEONID METEOR SHOWER IN SKIES...

Stargazers may get the chance to see a shooting star display as the annual Leonid meteor shower hits the skies above Britain.

The night-time spectacular could be visible tonight, weather permitting, and the early pre-dawn hours of Sunday morning.

Met Office forecasts predict much of the UK will be covered by cloud in the early hours of Saturday, apart from the very north of Scotland.

But on Sunday the skies should generally be clear in the early hours.

For people in the US, the best viewing conditions will be across the interior West and the south east of the country, meteorologists at AccuWeather say.

The Great Lakes, the central Plains and southern Texas will offer the poorest viewing, if weather forecasts prove correct.

Scroll down for video

Stargazers may get the chance to see a shooting star display as the annual Leonid meteor shower (pictured in 2002) hits the skies above Britain. The night-time spectacular could be visible tonight, weather permitting, and the early pre-dawn hours Sunday morning

Met Office forecasts predict much of the UK will be covered by cloud in the early hours of Saturday, apart from the very north of Scotland. This is where budding astronomers in the country should look

The meteor shower occurs when meteoroids, small rocks, fall towards the Earth after breaking off from the Comet Tempel-Tuttle.

These burn up and vaporise before they hit the Earth's surface – causing a streak of hot air which we see as a shooting star.

Displays are better when the Tempel-Tuttle comet, which takes 33 years to orbit the sun, is closer to the Earth, an occurrence which is next due in about 15 years' time.

Dr John Mason, from the British Astronomical Association, said: 'If you are in the countryside you may see a few meteors, if it is the town or city, you may not see any at all.'

This particular celestial event is called the Leonids because it appears to come from the Leo star constellation.

Meteor spotters should watch from a vantage point with as little light pollution as possible and allow time for their eyes to adjust to the dark.

Dr Mason said a much more spectacular display is due over the UK with the Geminids meteor shower due on December 13.

The shooting stars travel at around 45 miles per second (72km/s) and around half of them leave visible trains that sometimes linger for seconds after.

The Leonid meteor shower gets its name from its radiant, the point at which the meteors appear to emerge from in the constellation Leo. Pictured are Leonid meteors lighting up the night sky of the al-Azraq desert in 1999

Hundreds of shooting stars will streak across our skies as the Leonid meteor shower reaches its peak. Pictured is the shower lighting up the sky above the Great Wall of China

Astronomers say there's no need for special equipment to see this meteor shower - just lie down on the ground and look directly up at the sky, between the East and the point above you.

As always, the best way to catch a glimpse of the show is to head away from urban areas where light pollution reduces visibility.

Speaking to USA Today about the viewing conditions, AccuWeather meteorologist Kristina Pydynowski said: 'Dry weather may dominate the north-central and western United States.

'It may not be a good night at all to view the meteor shower downwind of the Great Lakes, where a lake-effect snow event may be underway.

'Some clouds may streak into the I-95 corridor, but even where there are enough breaks in the clouds, brisk winds will not make it a pleasant night to sit out to watch the meteors.'

In 2034, researchers predict that observers will have a chance to witness 2,000 meteors per hour, in a 'Leonid storm.' A Leonid meteor streaks across the sky over Valley of Fire State Park, Nevada

Meteor showers occur when a comet comes close to the sun and produces debris - meteoroids - that spread around the comet's orbit.

Since meteoroids that create a meteor shower all move on a parallel path, and at the same speed, they seem to originate from a single point in the sky to observers on Earth, known as the radiant.

The Leonid meteor shower gets its name from its radiant, the point at which the meteors appear to emerge from in the constellation Leo.

Every 33 years, the Leonid meteor shower arrives as a storm of meteors, with more than 1,000 shooting stars an hour.

The Leonids occur as the Earth moves through the dust trail of Tempel-Tuttle comet.

In 2034, researchers predict that observers will have a chance to witness 2,000 meteors per hour, in a 'Leonid storm.'

====== 1494 ========

CANNIBAL 'HOTDOG' GALAXY IS AS BRIGHT AS 350 TRILLION STARS

A galaxy 12.4 billion light years away has been spotted stealing mass from three smaller intergalactic neighbours to feed the supermassive black hole at its centre.

The cannibalism fuels the celestial object and has allowed it to become the brightest galaxy ever seen by astronomers, with a brightness of 350 trillion suns.

It has been dubbed W2256 by astronomers who were able to spot the streams of matter being plundered from nearby galaxies fin order to maintain its incredible brightness.

W2256 belongs to a rare class of quasars - a massive and extremely remote celestial object - known as Hot, Dust-Obscured Galaxy (HotDOG) and only one out of every 3,000 quasars belongs to this class.

Scroll down for video

The cannibalism of W2256 which is 12.4 billion light years away fuels the large galaxy and has allowed it to become the brightest one ever seen by scientists as it emits 350 times more light that our sun (artist's impression)

Observations with the Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array (ALMA) reveal the interstellar robbery as astronomers were able to witness the flow of matter from one galaxy to another.

It is not the largest or most massive galaxy ever mapped, but it is unrivalled in its brightness.

This galaxy's luminosity is powered by a tiny disk of gas that is being superheated as it spirals in on the supermassive black hole at the galaxy's centre.

Surrounding dust absorbs this fantastically bright light and emits it as infrared radiation.

Much of the dust and gas being siphoned away from the three smaller galaxies is likely being converted into new stars and feeding the larger galaxy's central black hole, the researchers say.

They also reveal the galaxy's gluttony could lead to its demise and eventual self-destruction.

Scientists have heralded ALMA's remarkable resolution and sensitivity as the reason for the breakthrough and said the discovery of these remarkably faint and trans-galactic streamers was made possible by the Chilean telescope.

The connecting tendrils that incriminate W2256 in the robbery of the galactic material contain about as much mass as some galaxies, scientists believe.

Observations with the Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array (ALMA) reveal the interstellar robbery as astronomers were able to witness the flow of matter from the three galaxies into W2256 (pictured)

This image shows W2246 and its companion galaxies C1, C2 and C3. Astronomers were able to spot streams of matter being plundered from nearby galaxies for the purposes of maintaining its incredible brightness

'We knew from previous data that there were three companion galaxies, but there was no evidence of interactions between these neighbours and the central source,' said Tanio Díaz-Santos of the Universidad Diego Portales in Santiago, Chile, lead author of the study.

'We weren't looking for cannibalistic behaviour and weren't expecting it, but this deep dive with the ALMA observatory makes it very clear.'

Galactic cannibalism is not uncommon, though this is the most distant galaxy in which such behaviour has been observed.

The researchers say this may be the first direct image of a galaxy simultaneously feeding on material from multiple sources at the formative years of the universe.

They claim the amount of gas being devoured by W2246 is enough to sustain the galaxy and allow it to form stars and feed its internal black hole for hundreds of millions of years.

The full findings of the study were published in the journal Science.

====== 1495 ========

WORRYING IPHONE X BUG LETS HACKERS GET AHOLD OF YOUR DELETED PHOTOS

Make sure you empty your deleted photos folder on your iPhone X.

Two security researchers have discovered a vulnerability in Apple's 10th anniversary handset that could let hackers access your previously deleted photo or file.

The researchers collected a $50,000 bounty for finding the flaw and Apple has been notified about the vulnerability, but the firm has yet to patch it, according to Forbes.

Scroll down for video

Security researchers have discovered a vulnerability in Apple's 10th anniversary handset that could let hackers view your previously deleted photo or file. Apple hasn't patched the bug yet

HOW CAN YOU PERMANENTLY DELETE PHOTOS IN iOS? Apple stores recently deleted pictures in a folder in the Photos app for up to 30 days before they're wiped from the device completely. But users can still empty the folder manually. To do this, navigate to the 'Recently Deleted' folder at the bottom of the Photos app. Select every folder in the photo and then tap 'Delete all.' After this is done, you cannot recover the photos that have been deleted.

Hackers Richard Zhu and Amat Cama discovered the bug at the annual 'Pwn2Own' hacking contest in Tokyo this week.

They connected to the device, which was running iOS 12.1, using a malicious WiFi access point.

From there, the researchers took advantage of a weakness in the Safari web browser.

Specifically, the vulnerability resided in Apple's just-in-time (JIT) compiler, which speeds up an iPhone by processing computer code while a program runs.

If the compiler is compromised, hackers are able to access recently deleted files.

Apple's Recently Deleted files folder is handy if you accidentally removed a photo you actually want to keep, but in this scenario, it proved to be the cause of a major headache.

Researchers Richard Zhu and Amat Cama discovered the bug at a hacking contest. It took advantage of a flaw in Apple's just-in-time compiler, which processes code as a program runs

The album holds onto photos for up to 30 days, before erasing them completely.

But the JIT vulnerability isn't limited to recently deleted photos.

The exploit could also be used to access other files. The recently deleted photos were just the first thing the hackers stumbled upon.

Until the bug is patched, researchers pointed out that hackers could still gain access to your recently deleted files.

Apple has yet to respond to requests for comment, but many expect the bug to be fixed when the next iOS update arrives.



====== 1496 ========

WALKING BACKWARDS CAN BOOST YOUR SHORT-TERM MEMORY

People who walk backwards perform better in a memory test than those who stand still or walk forward, a study has found.

Researchers asked 114 volunteers to watch a video in which a woman had her bag stolen and then answer a questionnaire about what they could recall.

After watching the video, participants were split into groups - one was told to walk forwards or backwards 30 feet (10m) while a control group stood in one place.

They were then asked twenty questions about the events in the video and it was found that the backward-walking group got two more answers correct on average than the forward-walkers and the non-walkers.

Scroll down for video

People who walk backwards perform better in a memory test than those who stand still or walk forward, a study has found. Researchers asked 114 volunteers to watch a video in which a woman had her bag stolen and answer a questionnaire about what they could recall (stock)

Experts from the University of Roehampton discovered a similar effect in five variations of the experiment.

One of them involved a similar procedure but tested how many words the volunteers could remember from a list.

In others, participants simply imagined moving forwards or backwards, or watched a video filmed on a train, which created the impression of moving forwards or backwards.

In all scenarios, the backwards group or those who imagined walking backwards got the most answers right.

The team deemed this as a statistically significant experiment and an indication that a link between the concepts of 'time' and 'space' is essential to the way our minds form memories.

'It's a partial vindication of this idea that time is really expressed via space,' says Aksentijevic Aksentijevic, who led the study.

After watching the video, participants were split into groups - one was told to walk forwards or backwards 30 feet (10m) while a control group stood in one place. People who walked backwards remembered more (stock image)

It is still not clear why motion, real or imagined, should improve our access to memories but Dr Aksentijevic hopes further research will shed light on as well as how to use it to our advantage.

'I am sure that some of this work could be useful in helping people remember things, but how is a question for more research,' he said.

Richard Allen at the University of Leeds, UK, says the results are interesting, and might offer ways to improve memory function.

'However, I think we need to see the results clearly replicated by other research groups before we can start to be confident about this effect and its interpretation,' Dr Allen said.

====== 1497 ========

WHY YOU SHOULD SUCK YOUR BABY'S DUMMY TO CLEAN IT

Mothers may get funny looks for picking a baby's dummy up off the dirty ground and popping it in their own mouth to clean it.

But germophobe parents who would rather sterilise their child's pacifier or put it in the dishwasher may be raising their child's risk of allergies.

Mothers who suck a dummy clean after it gets dirty have children with fewer antibodies linked to asthma, food and dust allergies, a study found.

That may be because parents transfer their own bacteria to their child's mouth, helping to boost their immune system.

Germophobe parents who would rather sterilise their child's pacifier or put it in the dishwasher may be raising their child's risk of allergies

Researchers led by the Henry Ford Health System asked 128 mothers how they cleaned their children's dummies before taking blood tests from the infants.

Lower levels of immunoglobin E (igE) antibodies were found in the children whose parents used their own mouths instead of tap water or sterilisation.

Lead author Dr Eliane Abou-Jaoude said: 'We know that exposure to certain micro-organisms early in life stimulates development of the immune system and may protect against allergic diseases later.

'Parental pacifier sucking may be an example of a way parents may transfer healthy micro-organisms to their young children.'

DO BABY WIPES CAUSE ALLERGIES? Baby wipes increase children's risk of developing life-threatening food allergies, research suggested in April 2018. Immune reactions to everyday produce like nuts, eggs and soy may be brought on by a 'perfect storm' of baby wipes, dust and food exposure, a study found in a 'major advance'. Researchers believe this is due to an ingredient in soap found in baby wipes, known as sodium lauryl sulphate, lingering on infants' skin and disrupting its protective fatty barrier. In youngsters with genetic mutations that predispose them to allergies, this disruption could lead to immune reactions if they are, for instance, kissed by a sibling with peanut butter on their face, according to the US researchers. The scientists recommend parents reduce their youngsters' food allergy risk by washing their hands before touching them and rinsing off excess soap after baby wipe use. Around one in 13 children in the US suffer from at least one food allergy, according to Food Allergy Research & Education. Lead author Professor Joan Cook-Mills, from Northwestern University, said: 'I thought about what are babies exposed to. 'They are exposed to environmental allergens in dust in a home. 'They may not be eating food allergens as a newborn, but they are getting them on their skin. 'Say a sibling with peanut butter on her face kisses the baby. Or a parent is preparing food with peanuts and then handles the baby. ' Professor Cook-Mills then investigated skin studies that assessed the impact of soap, saying: 'I thought "oh my gosh!' That's infant wipes!"'

Among the 128 mothers interviewed for the study, around one in eight sucked their child's dummy to clean it.

Slightly more than two in five chose to sterilise, boil or steam the pacifier, or to put it in the microwave or dishwasher.

The vast majority, 72 per cent, hand-washed their child's dummy by rinsing it under a tap or using washing up liquid.

Researchers wanted to see if there was any difference in igE, which is triggered when children have allergic responses to triggers like milk, peanuts, dust mites or pollen.

Taking blood from babies at birth, six and 18 months old, they found significantly lower levels of these antibodies in 18-month-old children whose mothers sucked their pacifier. There was no difference between dummies sterilised or hand-washed.

The authors, whose study is being presented at the annual meeting of the American College of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology in Seattle, suggest healthy mouth bacteria passed on from adults may be responsible.

This backs up the 'hygiene hypothesis' which suggests children should be exposed to bugs to reduce their risk of allergies.

Those brought up in the countryside tend to have lower rates of asthma, which is commonly triggered by allergies.

Dr Edward Zoratti, a co-author of the study from Henry Ford, said: 'We found that parental pacifier sucking was linked to suppressed IgE levels beginning around 10 months, and continued through 18 months.

'Further research is needed, but we believe the effect may be due to the transfer of health-promoting microbes from the parent's mouth.

'It is unclear whether the lower IgE production seen among these children continues into later years.'

Dr Abou-Jaoude said: 'Although we can't say there's a cause and effect relationship, we can say the microbes a child is exposed to early on in life will affect their immune system development.'

====== 1498 ========

FACEBOOK PATENT WOULD USE YOUR FAMILY PHOTOS TO FIGURE OUT WHO YOU LIVE WITH AND SERVE UP ADS

Facebook wants to figure out who you live with.

The social media giant has filed a patent for technology that would look at your family photos to determine who else lives in your household.

In turn, it would allow Facebook to serve up targeted ads to the whole family.

Scroll down for video

Facebook has filed a patent for technology that would look at your family photos to determine who else lives in your household. In turn, it would allow the firm to serve up targeted ads

The patent, titled 'Predicting household demographics based on image data,' was filed on May 10th but was only made public on Thursday.

It describes the use of deep learning algorithms that are trained to look for details in photos like faces and cross-reference them with textual data in the person's profile that 'suggests relationships' among people in the photo.

The algorithm would also look at other available data, like comments, captions, tags, IP addresses to form conclusions.

'For example, a trained image analysis model identifies each individual depicted in the photos of the user, a trained text analysis model derives household member relationship information from the user's profile data and tags associated with the photos,' the patent states.

'The online system uses the predictions to build more information about the user and his/her household in the online system, and provide improved and targeted content delivery to the user and the user's household.'

The algorithm would detect who's in the photo and cross-reference it with other data like IP addresses, captions and tags to establish a family relationship between those in the photo

Using this technology would give Facebook all sorts of household and demographic information, such as age, socioeconomic data, gender and location - all of which are vital to advertisers.

The algorithm is able to deduce granular information like how many people are tagged in a certain photo, the people in the photo and how often these people appear in the same photo together.

It also looks at tags to determine family relationships, giving the example of a photo that includes the hashtags family, Christmas, husband, wife, mom, or children.

The algorithm studies messaging history, tagging history and even web browsing history to see if multiple people share the same IP address.

What's more, it would also use pictures from Instagram to gather information.

The algorithm can deduce granular information like how many people are tagged in a certain photo, the people in the photo and how often these people appear in the same photo together

In another example, Facebook describes a man who posts several photos of two females.

In one of the photos he is pictured with a young girl and it's captioned 'my angel.'

From this the algorithm is able to deduce that he is pictured with what's likely his daughter, while the photo of the other woman is his wife.

As a result, the algorithm can also gather that it's a three-person household, building a richer profile for brands to target more relevant ads toward the user.

This isn't the first patent Facebook has published concerning ways it can gather more robust demographic information from users.

Earlier this year, it patented a technology that would allow it to predict 'life change events' such as marriage, birth and even death.

====== 1499 ========

AMAZING VIDEO GIVES A 'UNIQUE' LOOK INSIDE AN ENIGMA CIPHER MACHINE

A fascinating new video gives a unique look inside the Enigma cipher machine used by the Nazis during World War Two and famously cracked by a team of code breakers led by British mathematician Alan Turing.

Scientists used state-of-the-art X-ray scans to peer inside the Enigma's metal casing, revealing the wiring and rotors that encrypted the messages sent using the machine.

In total, more than 1,500 scans were taken of an Enigma machine built in Berlin in 1941 - one of just 274 known to have survived the war.

Enigmas, which resembled large typewriters, were used by German air, naval and army forces to safely send messages throughout the Second World War.

It used a complex series of rotors and lights to encrypt messages by swapping letters around via an ever-changing 'enigma code'.

The code was broken in 1941 by mathematicians at Bletchley Park in Buckinghamshire, a feat that allowed the allies to intercept key German messages.

It is believed that the work of Turing and his team shortened the war's duration by up to two years.

Scientists working at the University of Manchester have shone new light on the Enigma using hundreds of X-ray CT scans.

The technology works by collecting a series of X-ray scans which are then reconstructed into a virtual 3D replica.

Philip Withers, Professor of Materials at the University of Manchester, said: 'Gaining a first look inside the Enigma machine required us to take over 1,500 separate x-ray radiographs.'

'Normally our facilities are probing new materials to solve engineering problems but when we were approached we were keen to help.'

The German army Enigma machine was loaned to the University by Bletchley Park and its owner, cryptography enthusiast, David Cripps.

A fascinating new video gives a unique look inside the Enigma cipher machine used by the German military during World War Two and famously cracked by a team of code breakers led by British mathematician Alan Turing

Scientists used state-of-the-art X-ray scans to peer inside the Enigma's metal casing, revealing the wiring and rotors that encrypted the messages sent using the machine

WHAT WAS THE ENIGMA MACHINE? The Enigma machine was a device used to encrypt messages by the German military during the Second World War The Enigma was a type of enciphering machine used by the German armed forces to send messages securely during the Second World War. It used a complex series of rotors and lights to encrypt messages by swapping letters around via an ever-changing 'enigma code'. Polish mathematicians worked out how to read enigma messages prior to 1939, and shared this information with the British. But German cryptographers upgraded the security of the machines at the outbreak of the war by changing the cipher system daily. A team of researchers, including famed British mathematician Alan Turing, eventually broke the enigma code in 1941. They invented devices known as Bombe machines that could decipher the enigma code, allowing Allied forces to intercept German messages. It is believed that the work of Turing and his team shortened the war's duration by up to two years.

It is the latest Enigma machine to be verified and one of only 274 registered.

Made in Berlin in 1941, the machine is believed to have been supplied to the Austrian Federal Ministry of the Interior in Vienna.

Enigma machine owner David Cripps said: 'One thing we've been able to do is actually look inside the rotors and see the individual wires and pins which connect the 26 letters on each of the three rotors, enabling a message to be encrypted.

'This is the first time anyone has been able to look inside the Enigma with this level of detail, using a technique that does not damage the machine.'

More than 1,500 scans were taken of an Enigma machine built in Berlin in 1941 - one of just 274 registered worldwide

The majority of Enigma devices were smashed to pieces by the Nazis as the Allies swept through Europe in the final months of the war.

And after the war ended, Winston Churchill ordered all remaining Enigmas to be destroyed to help preserve the secret decoding techniques at Bletchley Park.

Only a few hundred survived and fewer still remain today.

The original enigma machine used three rotors to encode its messages, but this was later upgraded to four to boost security.

Enigmas, which resembled large typewriters, were used by German air, naval and army forces to safely send messages throughout the Second World War

A team of researchers, including famed British mathematician Alan Turing, eventually broke the enigma code in 1941. Their work was the focus of the 2014 film 'The Imitation Game'

Kriegsmarine commander-in-chief Karl Donitz, in charge of the German navy, ordered the development of the so-called M4 after suffering repeated defeats at the hands of the Allies early in the war.

So confident was Donitz in the M4 Enigma that, in his trial at Nuremberg, he claimed the Allies could not possibly have deciphered its messages.

Instead he attributed the destruction wreaked upon his fleet to advanced radar and direction-finding alone.

====== 1500 ========

'AMAZON ECHO FOR THE ELDERLY' USES AI TO TRACK PEOPLE'S MOVEMENTS

A tiny white cube that uses Artificial Intelligence to monitor the lives of elderly people who live alone could save thousands of lives, according to its creator.

The miiCube, a kind of 'Amazon Echo for the elderly', learns people's routines and tracks their movements so it can alert the relevant authorities if something is wrong.

The device will also sense if there's a break in routine, such as not getting up at the normal time or not following usual daily routines.

Creator Kelvin Summoogum - who set up miiCARE, the firm behind the gadget, in March - got the idea when his grandmother broke her hip at home.

He said she spent twelve hours in agony on the floor before anyone knew until a neighbour found her and brought her to the hospital.

Scroll down for video

Dubbed the 'Amazon Echo for the elderly', the miiCUBE uses A.I to track elderly people's movements and learns their routines so it can alert the relevant authorities if something is wrong. It also tracks vital signs and can sense if you're unwell (Stock image)

Mr Summoogum, from Chatham, Kent said: 'It was a horrible experience and one I don't want anyone else to have to go through.

'Every time we walked into hospital we were scared her bed would be empty.'

The device can also monitor your vital signs and can sense if someone is getting unwell.

For example, a person getting up repeatedly in the night to use the toilet could be a signs of diabetes or a kidney infection.

Using miiCUBE in the homes of recently retired people can check on users throughout the day if needed.

'This keeps people active during their retirement and prevents them picking up bad habits, such as staying in bed later into the day, but it also helps keep the frail safe,' says Summoogum.

So far miiCUBE, which is being developed at the Medway Innovation Centre, has been backed by Kent County Council, Santander and Royal Mail.

The tiny white cube, pictured, could save the lives of thousands of elderly people according to its creator Kelvin Summoogum

Mr Summoogum says that getting postal workers involved is a big thing, as they often know elderly residents routines and are in the best position to check on them.

Thanks to a £260,000 pledge to the project through crowdfunding and 250 investors, Kelvin's team is working towards a launch date of May.

However, there are 33 cubes currently being trialled in homes across north Kent.

'With this project we've been able to spend two years really getting to know how elderly people live and develop a device that can get to know its users incredibly quickly,' says Mr Summoogum.

Kelvin Sumoogum, pictured, thought of the idea after his own grandmother fell and broke her hip and was left on in agony for 12 hours until a neighbour found her and took her to hospital. He says that the cube also protects them from ad habits including staying in bed for longer

The device will sense if there's a break in routine, such as not getting up at the normal time or not following usual daily routines. It also is able to track vital signs. Pictured, how the device works, from the company website.

'A lot of people don't realise how many of the four million over 65s in the country living alone don't have the internet or smart phones.

He said that it often isn't the cost of these devices that are the problem, it's the technology that the elderly get lost on.

'Often you'll hear elderly people trying to use Alexa - Amazon Echo's voice assistant - and getting frustrated and eventually giving up because she keeps asking users who may have slow or interrupted speech to repeat themselves,' he said.

'We've spent time learning about these issues, what future users keep telling us is we need to make technology adapt to them and not the other way round.'

miiCARE is in talks with NHS England to provide the cube to users all over the country - the cost of the actual device should be around £50.

====== 1501 ========

THE 'CLEANERS' DECIDING IN SECRET WHAT SOCIAL MEDIA USERS ACROSS THE WORLD CAN SEE - AT A PRICE

A fresh-faced resident of the Manila slums who supports his mother and family. A devout Catholic committed to stopping the spread of sin. A young woman whose mother warned that dedicated study was the only way to avoid becoming a trash scavenger. A father determined not to let what he sees online affect his outlook on life.

A man who killed himself because he let it affect him too much.

These are the ‘cleaners,’ the low-wage workers tasked with policing the images and content that everyone can view on social media. They work under the radar, wading through 25,000 images a day, taking mere seconds to decide what is and isn’t appropriate for platforms such as Facebook, YouTube and Twitter. Only three errors are permitted per month, and the content they view can include anything from beheadings and assaults to political cartoons. They are generally trained for just three to five days and bring to the job their own experiences and belief systems –subsequently influencing the lives and opinions of billions worldwide.

The existence and impact of these workers – most of whom are based in the Philippines – are investigated in new documentary The Cleaners, which is hoping for an Oscar nod. The film offers a dark and alarming look into the underbelly of the Internet – and it wasn’t easy to make, directors Hans Block and Moritz Riesewieck tell DailyMail.com.

‘Getting in contact with the workers was one of the biggest challenges of the whole filmmaking process,’ Block says via email. ‘It's a very secretive and hidden industry. The companies do everything they can to keep the work secret. The companies use code words to hide which companies they are working for.’

Facebook, for example, is referred to as the ‘Honeybadger Project,’ the directors were told by the ‘cleaners’, as content moderators are known.

Scroll down for video

Documentary The Cleaners shines a light on the secret workers in the developing world tasked with deciding what can and cannot appear on social media platforms - forced to make decisions within seconds after just a few days of training

Directors Hans Block and Moritz Riesewieck tell DailyMail.com that it was difficult to get 'cleaners - known as content moderators - to talk; the workers face reprisals in what is a hugely secretive industry and are pressured not to talk to journalists

‘The workers must keep their job secret. Otherwise they are sued,’ Block continues. ‘There are private security firms that pressure workers not to talk to strangers. They control their social media accounts and there are all kinds of reprisals. It took us quite a while to get in touch with the workers. We collected all the information to get a bigger picture about what is going on there.

‘But when we eventually did it (in collaboration with local students) we were surprised how proud many of them were to do this job. They told us: Without us social media would be a complete mess. On the other hand many of them silently suffer from the impact the work has on their mental health. After a very long period of research, in which we built up a relationship of trust with the workers, we worked together with our protagonists of the film to find out how to make a film about this work.’

The process of securing the participation of such workers – men and women with firsthand knowledge of how the system works – was one that had to be carefully orchestrated. Riesewieck tells DailyMail.com how colleagues were secretly ‘photographed while talking to possible subjects and then the photo was sent to all the employees in order to threaten them in case they were willing to talk to us.

‘The offices are protected by airport scanners at the doors and surveilled by private security firms who sometimes even control the private social media behavior of the workers - just to make sure they are not in touch with journalists. So we really needed to find creative ways how to make a film about this completely hidden work.

‘We eventually did by finding an abandoned office of this very type of work in a business district of Manila with all the typical work stations still inside where we could invite our subjects in order to learn more about their work. This protected space made it possible for them to share experiences about their traumatizing work and their feelings, in which way they are affected and so on.’

'Cleaners' are not employed directly by tech giants such as Facebook or Twitter - which have been the subject of congressional hearings in the US exploring their practices - but rather by other companies - and the well-known social media platforms are often given code names

The content moderators are affected in vastly different ways; some are proud and see their role as guardians, while others are deeply affected, such as the formerly innocent devout Catholic who finds it hard to get images of male genitalia out of her head. The film also includes the story of one moderator specializing in images of self-harm; he repeatedly asked to be transferred but was denied, and he ended up taking his own life.

The pitfalls of the job are, clearly, manifold.

But The Cleaners also explores the wider societal implications of their work. Sanitizing content means that images of war and violence – such as bombings in Syria – are often designated as terrorist-related, deleted and kept from online audiences, preventing them from being fully informed.

Abdulwahab Tahhan, who works with the NGO Airwars, laments in the film how summarily deleting such content hinders the efforts of his organization – and prevents global citizens from receiving vital information.

‘Without our work, the armies or the governments would have a straight pass without anybody challenging them,’ he says in The Cleaners. ‘There would be, I think, more civilians getting killed; there would be less closure; we would not be able to know what’s going on. These videos are needed. These videos are part of the war. They provide information; they provide evidence for the future.

‘But the problem is, these videos are quite often classified as ISIS videos. It’s been seen that this is very graphic, so they get deleted. Now the censorship that’s taking place on YouTube, it’s affecting a lot of organizations.’

The cultural, educational and political backgrounds of the content moderators inherently affects what’s deleted and what’s allowed to remain; without context, it’s wildly difficult for such workers to make informed decisions about images and footage.

Some content moderators are proud and believe their work helps keep the Internet from being a 'complete mess;' others have suffered mentally and emotionally from being forced to view images that include beheadings, assaults and other atrocities - with the film even telling the story of one moderator who took his own life

Filmmaker Block tells DailyMail.com: ‘Most of the billions of people in the world who use social media don’t have any clue who does the clean-up-work for them. Most of us take it for granted we don’t have to see videos of beheadings, rape or torture in our newsfeeds. We don’t know there are thousands of young workers in the developing world who sacrifice themselves in order to keep us “safe” and provide us with a “healthy environment” when we go online'

Directors Moritz Riesewieck, left, and Hans Block went to great lengths not only to obtain interviews but also to protect 'cleaners' - even offering them access to a psychologist

Without comment or judgement, a few examples are woven into the film. The devout Catholic content moderator deletes any images of nudity, period. A moderator deleted the award-winning Vietnam War photo depicting a naked young girl running from a napalm attack – because it showed an unclothed minor. Another moderator deleted an image he believed to be a young child killed in a flood accident – when, in reality, it was an image of a toddler victim of the Syrian conflict, likely a drowned refugee.

Artist Kahled Barakeh had posted that photo and others on facebook to highlight the atrocities in his native country – only for the post to be deleted after three days.

‘There was no explanation,’ he says in the film. ‘I tried to, in every possible way, to be in touch, but it was impossible … Sometimes I try to think about it: Who decides what is the policy of Facebook? I would love to meet these people, know who they are – because by logic, their background, who they are, it affects how they think. That child didn’t die out of a normal situation.’

Such harsh realities should be shared on social media, he says, because ‘we should keep disturbing the world’.

The documentary hammers home the point that major companies, and not just the content moderators, should be facing major ethical and procedural questions.

‘A decision about what constitutes terror content is a really context-based decision,’ says Nicole Wong, a former policy maker at Google and Twitter – and former deputy US chief technology officer under President Obama – who was interviewed by the filmmakers.

‘It may show up on one platform as a true threat, and it may show up on another platform as news or as satire or criticism commenting on a piece of content … it’s hard to know whether something should be removed or not.’

The Cleaners interviews former executives from major companies such as Facebook and Google – but it proved veritably impossible to get current employees to talk, the filmmakers tell DailyMail.com.

‘From the beginning, we wanted to involve Silicon Valley executives in our film to discuss the issue of global networks and how to handle the moderation process of the platforms,’ Block tells DailyMail.com. ‘It would be so easy to blame or insult the social media for all their mistakes. But we never did. Much more, we wanted to encourage an open dialogue to think about the problem of the global network.

‘But getting in contact with the executives of the big social media companies wasn't any easier as there is this code of silence in Silicon Valley. None of the employees of Facebook or Google talks about what's happening inside. We contacted several dozens of people and never got an answer. We've even sent the final cut of our film to all the major companies and asked for a public statement. There was no response either.

‘When we tried to promote the film in Germany and France via social media, we got the message after a short time that the trailer violated the community guidelines and was deleted. Sad but true! Intransparency is one of the main characteristics of the companies. That was very annoying and upsetting.

‘Eventually we got in touch with some of the former representatives of Facebook and Google/ YouTube/Twitter. Many of the former representatives regret that they helped to build technology with so many terrible effects.’

The power struggle with individual governments, as well, is investigated by the film, which touches upon censorship in countries such as Turkey and issues with information spread in places like Myanmar – where most people get all of their news from platforms such as Facebook and are arguably less able to distinguish between fact and fiction. That reality contributes to major problems such as genocide and marginalization, with The Cleaners pointing out that Facebook has been used to promote hatred of the ethnic minority Rohingya people in Myanmar.

The film interviews former Google and Twitter executive Nicole Wong, left, who went on to be US deputy chief technology officer under President Barack Obama - as well as activist Abdulwahab Tahhan, with NGO Airwars, who believes blocked content of bombings and other violence in Syria is hampering efforts by organizations such as his that are trying to show the world what is really going on. Tahhan says: 'We should keep disturbing the world'

Artist Khaled Bakareh is also interviewed in the film; he posted photos on Facebook of children killed during the Syria conflict, only to see them removed days later. He says: 'Sometimes I try to think about it: Who decides what is the policy of Facebook? I would love to meet these people, know who they are – because by logic, their background, who they are, it affects how they think'

But the documentary makers themselves also had to struggle with what they should and shouldn’t show in the film.

Riesewieck explains how they ‘decided only to show a tiny part of the disturbing content itself and whenever possible rather to show the reactions of the content moderators on the content. It is clearly not our aim to shock the audience.

‘But in cases like with the war in Syria we still need to ask ourselves what gives us the right not to be disturbed by the human victims of this terrible war which so many countries worldwide are included in. We want to make awareness that the so called “healthy environment” on social media comes at a huge price: A very perfidious mental abuse of young low wage workers in the developing world and the loss of a lot of ambivalent, challenging, eye-opening material.’

The filmmakers made a psychologist available to the content moderators they interviewed, and they hope that their final product prompts thought and discussion among social media users, platforms and governments alike. Their film focuses on an aspect of the Internet that is rarely discussed or investigated – or thought about by the billions using social media every day for information and communication.

‘What was really surprising was, how many grey areas remain despite the guidelines the content moderators have to follow,’ Riesewieck tells DailyMail.com. ‘Content moderators told us they don't dare to forward every second case in which they feel unsure about which guideline to apply or how to recognize the context of a picture or video and therefore just use their "gut feelings".

‘According to several different content moderators in Manila there is a golden rule everybody has to learn in their three to five-day-training for the job: “Don't overthink!” Just think about the consequences for activists, civil rights organizations, minorities and others if their content is deleted from Facebook, Youtube, Twitter just because a young low wage worker didn't know about the context and purpose of the post and intuitively got it wrong.’

His co-director says: ‘Most of the billions of people in the world who use social media don’t have any clue who does the clean-up-work for them. Most of us take it for granted we don’t have to see videos of beheadings, rape or torture in our newsfeeds. We don’t know there are thousands of young workers in the developing world who sacrifice themselves in order to keep us "safe" and provide us with a "healthy environment" when we go online.

'At the same time, hundreds of thousands of newsworthy pictures and videos disappear every single day without our notice. A lot of individuals as well as whole groups of our societies are secretly silenced with huge effects on our democracy.

‘We all should question the power social media has on all of us and become much more aware of the impact it has on today's societies and all our minds. Instead of just passively consuming the net and allowing a few companies to dictate the rules for our digital public we should claim a much more participative, diverse net - in the hands of the public.’

‘We should become aware about how social media has hacked our desire to be loved by making us seek likes with every post we make. And by constantly asking us what we think about this and that people have familiarized with the idea of constantly having opinions. All these triggers and nudges make us produce more and more content in order to keep the level of positive feedback. The first step to limit the addiction to these technologies and dealing with them in a more mindful and meaningful way is becoming aware about those effects on our minds and on behavior.’

====== 1502 ========

'COULD SCIENTISTS TURN THOUGHTS INTO SPEECH? HOPE FOR PARALYZED PATIENTS TO 'TALK' AGAIN

Scientists are getting closer and closer to being able to translate the thoughts of patients who have lost their speech into words.

Technology has made leaps and bounds to bridge the rift that forms between mind and body when one (or both) are damaged by disease.

Amputees can now be fit with futuristic mind-controlled body limbs; bionic eyes give sight to the sightless, cochlear implants allow the deaf to hear.

Restoring speech, however, presents unique challenges and has mostly remained in the realm of science fiction and the (mostly) pseudoscience of telepathy.

Ambitious scientists scattered across the world are on the brink of changing that with implants that act as 'brain-computer interfaces' that may soon be able to broadcast the voices inside a speechless patients' heads.

Researchers at Columbia University and Northwell Health are using electrodes on volunteers' brains to learn the electrical impulse language of the brain so they can translate it and give speech back to paralyzed patients (file)

A COMPUTER INTERFACE LET STEPHEN HAWKING TALK - BUT IT DIDN'T LISTEN TO HIS BRAIN

Up until his death in March, British cosmologist Stephen Hawking was one of the most influential and famous thinkers, teachers and speakers of the last century.

But for the last 30 years of his life, he had no voice.

Computer assistance allowed the brilliant astrophysicist to go on to speak all over the world nonetheless. The voice of 'Perfect Paul' - an early synthesized speech tool with an American accent designed for telephone prompt responses - became Hawking's signature tenor.

Synthetic voice technology improved, but Hawking stuck with Paul's slightly halting speech. He did, however, progress through various control mechanisms.

Once his thumb could no longer choose letters, an innovative system that picked up on the subtle twitches of his cheeks allowed Hawking to go on communicating.

But Perfect Paul never did read Hawking's brilliant mind directly. 'Speaking' meant a letter-selection process that - even with the latest and greatest predictive text technologies - would always undoubtedly be slower than the great scientist's natural speech and meditations on the history of time.

ALS-stricken Stephen Hawking used a computer-assisted communication device that translated his thumb or facial movements into words - but it didn't read his mind

SCIENTISTS ARE 'LISTENING' TO BRAIN SIGNALS TO LEARN ITS ELECTRICAL VOCABULARY

Now, neuroscientists and engineers at Columbia University and Northwell Health in New York are mapping the brain's private language so that they may soon be able to translate the voice inside our heads.

Different regions of the brain communicate with one another through a combination of electrical impulses and chemical messengers.

Listening and speech are centered in Broca's area, which is responsible both for the brain's voice and the 'mind's ear,' as well. And Wernicke's area controls our word choices.

The collaborators at Columbia University and Northwell Health in New York hope that by listening in on the brain's most intimate conversations with itself, they might learn how to translate its electrical language into words the outside world will understand via a brain computer interface, Stat News reports.

This would be life-changing to patients with paralysis from injuries, ALS or locked-in syndrome.

ALS often eventually attacks the bulbar neurons, which control the motor function or movements involved in the physical act of speaking.

Loss of that function doesn't mean that language is lost altogether - we just need to learn to understand the brain's language.

So Dr Nima Mesgarani, an electrical engineering professor is listening in on brain chatter using implanted electrode strips, according to Stat News.

His electrodes record the electrical cracks and snaps in the brain, and sends them to a computer that then tries to make heads or tails of them.

Just like any other language, Dr Mesgarani's computer needs to keep learning more and more of the brain's electrical vocabulary.

So Dr Mesgarani has partnered with Dr Ashesh Mehta and his volunteers, epileptic patients who are allowing the scientists to implant their brains with the electrodes during surgeries to find the source of their seizures.

TRANSLATED BRAIN BABBLE IS STARTING TO SOUND LIKE SIMPLE WORDS BUT 'THOUGHT TO TEXT' IS FAR OFF

The more patients they implant, the better they'll know how to identify words.

The first step is to learn what our brain's electrical activity looks like when we say 'yes' or 'no' to ourselves.

We are still a long way off from translating complex thoughts, however, and these will likely remain locked away in the mind for some time to come.

But neither they nor the handful of other scientists working on similar medical technologies are the only ones interested in brain-computer interfaces.

Facebook, Elon Musk's Neuralink, and other technology companies have launched similar research and development efforts - with less philanthropic purposes in mind.

In 2017, Facebook announced its own goal of making a Face Brain, so to speak, that promises thought-to-text technology, so the Internet never has to miss out on a single thing you think.

The Facebook team has insisted that thought-to-text is no longer science fiction, but Dr Mesgarani and Dr Mehta are taking a more measured approach.

The five patients they recruited then had to painstakingly repeat numbers and stories until the doctors had recorded their brains' electrical impulse patterns.

These signals were then fed into a kind of medical synth, to see if they'd come out like language or gibberish.

Dr Mesgarani and Dr Mehta got something in between.

Most prior systems had only produced 'words' that were about half-and-half nonsense and comprehensible. The new brain translator was about 75 percent 'intelligible.'

'We have a good framework for producing accurate and intelligible reconstructed speech from brain activity,' Dr Mesgarani told Stat.

And that's 'a step toward the next generation of human-computer interaction systems … for patients suffering from paralysis and locked-in syndrome.'

====== 1503 ========

ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANT GENES ARE SHOWING UP IN ANTARCTIC PENGUINS

Antibiotic resistance has spread to penguins living in the Antarctic researchers have found - but conceded more evidence is needed to prove mankind is responsible.

In a broad study into birds that carry antibiotic resistance genes, scientists compared the diversity of gut microbes in penguins living around two bases.

Researchers from the University of Sydney wanted to compare birds that were carrying microbes resistant to antibiotics.

They found that penguins living in areas with higher human populations carried more antibiotic resistant genes than those in more remote areas.

Experts fear mankind is spreading the germs to these remote regions where birds provide them with fertile breeding grounds and spread them among their species.

Scroll down for video

Researchers have found that antibiotic resistance has spread to penguins living in the Antarctic. Penguins living near the O'Higgins Base (pictured) carried more resistant genes in their bodies than those living near the less-populated Gabriel González Videla Base (file photo)

Vanessa Marcelino, who led the study, and colleagues took swabs from inside the rectums of penguins living at the sites in Antarctica.

They used RNA sequencing to reveal the diversity and expression levels of known antibiotic-resistance genes.

They found that penguins inhabiting areas near the O'Higgins Base carried more resistant genes in their bodies than those living near the less-populated Gabriel González Videla Base.

Soil is an important environmental reservoir of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs), which are becoming more recognised as environmental contaminants.

Antarctic soil appeared to be a common reservoir for seven ARGs since they were present in most samples (42 per cent to 88 per cent) in a study in 2016.

It found that a total of 73 ARGs and other mobile genetic elements (MGEs) - encompassing eight major antibiotic resistance gene categories - were detected, but most at very low levels.

Experts fear mankind is spreading the germs to these remote regions where birds provide them with fertile breeding grounds and spread them among their species. More evidence is needed to conclusively prove mankind is responsible (stock image)

In the same study researchers took samples from 110 ducks and wading birds in Australia.

Birds that had the greatest diversity of antibiotic-resistance genes were those that lived in the ponds of a sewage treatment plant in Melbourne.

Ducks that fed on the surface of land or water were more likely to carry these genes than species accustomed to feeding in remote waters.

Josef Järhult at Uppsala University in Sweden said: 'It's a more complex measure of how diverse and big the pool of genetic resistance is,' he says.

'It demonstrates really nicely the inter-linkage between humans and the environment which is very often overlooked in general.'

Although Francois Balloux at University College London was sceptical about the study saying more evidence is needed to directly tie the presence of the genes to human activity in the areas sampled.

'There's no pristine place on Earth as far as antimicrobial resistance is concerned,' he said.

====== 1504 ========

EAT ORGANIC MEAT TO HELP AVOID 'APOCALYPSE', WARNS ENGLAND'S TOP DOCTOR

Eating meat from animals reared under organic or high-welfare standards could help tackle the rise in antibiotic-resistant superbugs, England’s chief medical officer has claimed.

Dame Sally Davies warned Britain faced an ‘apocalypse’ if antibiotics failed to work any more, The Times reported.

She urged shoppers to pressure food firms into cutting antibiotic use by buying produce that was not exposed to drugs.

Dame Sally Davies warned Britain faced an ‘apocalypse’ if antibiotics failed to work any more, The Times reported

This includes choosing poultry or meat with the Red Tractor label, which certifies the quality of farm produce in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, and Scottish and Scandinavian fish that has been vaccinated and not reared with antibiotics.

Worldwide, 700,000 people a year die of drug-resistant infections, but this could hit millions if antibiotics stop working.

She said: ‘I am eating less meat, and... I do try to make sure it is at least Red Tractor. I want animals reared with good welfare. That means very low antibiotic use.’

Antibiotics in the UK and Europe are routinely used to treat infections in livestock, dairy and fish farming. But overuse of antibiotics is a threat to human health because germs exposed to the drugs can become untreatable ‘superbugs’.

Speaking at the World Innovation Summit on Health in Doha, Qatar, she said: ‘Consumers have a terrific amount of influence on behaviours on farms.’

====== 1505 ========

BIOLOGICAL WARFARE! BUBBLES CONTAINING TRAPPED BACTERIA ACT AS TINY 'MICROBIAL GRENADES'

Bubbles containing trapped bacteria can act as tiny 'microbial grenades', new research shows.

Scientists found these tiny natural explosives had the power to launch microorganisms into the air at speeds of more than 30 feet (10m) a second.

A single droplet is thought to carry up to thousands of microorganisms, and each bubble can emit hundreds of droplets.

When an old bubble bursts at the water surface, its cap fragments into numerous small droplets. Scientists estimate that a single droplet can carry up to thousands of microorganisms, and each bubble can emit hundreds of droplets

A bubble covered in bacteria floating on the water's surface also lasts ten times longer than an uncontaminated one, scientists also found.

During this time the cap of the contaminated bubble gets thinner, according to researchers at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).

The thinner the bubble, the higher the number of droplets it is able to launch when it explodes into the air.

'We discovered bacteria can manipulate interfaces in a manner that can enhance their own water-to-air dispersal,' said Lydia Bourouiba, an assistant professor of civil and environmental engineering at MIT.

Bacterial secretions may reduce a bubble's surface tension, making it more elastic and more resistant to perturbations, scientists believe.

This makes it more likely to live longer on the water's surface.

This behaviour is much like how detergents work when they form bubbles.

Professor Bourouiba has spent years imaging uncontaminated bubbles.

'We first had to understand the physics of clean bubbles before we could add organisms like bacteria to see what effect they have on the system,' she said.

Researchers first noticed bacteria's effect by accident.

The team was in the middle of moving to a new lab space, and in the shuffle a beaker of water had been left out in the open.

When the researcher used it in subsequent experiments, the results were not what the team expected.

MIT researchers have found that bacteria (pictured on the surface) can affect a bubble’s longevity. Scientists found these tiny natural explosives had the power to launch microorganisms into the air at speeds of more than 30 feet (10m) a second

'The bubbles produced from this water lived much longer and had a peculiar thinning evolution compared to that of typical clean water bubbles,' said co-author graduate student Stephane Poulain.

Professor Bourouiba suspected the water had been contaminated and this hypothesis was soon proved correct.

They analysed the water and found evidence of bacteria that are naturally present indoors.

The team set up an experiment in which they filled a column with a solution of water and various bacteria species, including E. coli.

The researchers developed a system to generate bubbles with an air pump, one at a time, inside the column, in order to control the volume and size of each bubble.

When a bubble rose to the surface, the team used high-speed imaging coupled with a range of optical techniques to capture its behavior, at the surface and as it burst.

'Bacteria are alive, and like anything alive, they make waste, and that waste typically is something that potentially could interact with the bubble's interface,' Professor Bourouiba said.

Droplets from bursting bubbles are expelled in the atmosphere, where they can be transported for a long time

The team found that a single bacteria-laden bubble can create ten times more droplets, which are ten times smaller and ejected ten times faster than what a clean bubble can produce.

'The mechanism [Bourouiba] identified is also at work when foam bubbles burst at the surface of the ocean,' said Andrea Prosperetti, a professor of mechanical engineering at the University of Houston, who was not involved in the research.

'The size of these tiny film droplets determines how well they can be picked up and carried by the wind.'

He said this process has significant implications for climate and weather.

'The same basic process affects the health hazards of oil spills in the ocean: The tiny film drops carry hazardous chemicals from the oil, which can be inhaled by people and animals in the coastal regions.

'So, these humble, tiny drops have outsized consequences in many processes crucial to life', he said.

====== 1506 ========

'WE TRUST OUR ROCKET', CREW SAYS AHEAD OF FIRST SPACE...

A U.S. astronaut said on Thursday she had full confidence in the safety of the Russian-made Soyuz rocket that will blast a three-person crew into space next month in the first such launch since a rocket failure.

Russian cosmonaut Oleg Kononenko and U.S. and Canadian astronauts Anne McClain and David Saint-Jacques are due to embark for the International Space Station on Dec. 3 after a similar launch on Oct. 11 ended in an emergency landing.

Two minutes into that launch, a rocket failure forced Russian cosmonaut Alexei Ovchinin and U.S. astronaut Nick Hague to abort their mission and hurtle back to Earth in a capsule that landed in the Kazakh steppe.

Scroll down for video

Anne McClain is due to embark for the International Space Station on Dec. 3 after a similar launch on Oct. 11 ended in an emergency landing.

The two were unharmed.

Speaking at a news conference in Star City near Moscow, McClain said that occasional failures were inevitable, but that the mishap with the Soyuz-FG in October had demonstrated the reliability of its emergency safety mechanisms.

FIRST SOYUZ MISSION SINCE ABORTED LAUNCH An unmanned rocket carrying cargo blasted off into space on Friday in the first launch of a Russian-made Soyuz-FG rocket from Kazakhstan's Baikonur cosmodrome since a dramatic aborted launch in October. The rocket took off with a Progress MS-10 spacecraft at 18:14 GMT (00:14 local time) carrying supplies to the International Space Station (ISS). The Progress MS-10 is expected to dock at the ISS on Nov. 18, Russia's space agency said. The Soyuz booster carrying the Progress MS-10 cargo craft blasts off to the International Space Station (ISS) from the launchpad at the Baikonur Cosmodrome, Kazakhstan November 17, 2018. Russian State Space Corporation The last manned mission to the ISS was abruptly cut short on Oct. 11 two minutes after liftoff when the Soyuz-FG rocket failed, forcing a Russian cosmonaut and U.S. astronaut to perform an emergency landing. The rocket failure was caused by a sensor that was damaged during assembly at the Soviet era-cosmodrome at Baikonur, according to Russian investigators. The first manned mission to the ISS since the failure is due to take off at the beginning of December.

'We trust our rocket. We're ready to fly,' she said at the conference also attended by her colleagues Kononenko and Saint-Jacques.

'A lot of people called it an accident, or an incident, or maybe want to use it as an example of it not being safe, but for us it's exactly the opposite because our friends came home,' McClain told reporters.

Russian investigators said the rocket failure was caused by a sensor that was damaged during assembly at the Soviet era-cosmodrome at Baikonur from where McClain, Saint Jacques and Kononenko are due to launch.

Oleg Skorobogatov, who led the probe into the accident, told reporters Thursday that the investigation found that the sensor was damaged during the final assembly at the launch pad in Kazakhstan.

Russian rockets are manufactured in Russia and then transported by rail to the Russia-leased Baikonur cosmodrome in Kazakhstan.

Crew members of the International Space Station (ISS) next mission David Saint-Jacques (R) of Canada, Oleg Kononenko (C) of Russia and Anne McClain of the U.S. pose for a picture during a news conference in Star City near Moscow, Russia

Skorobogatov said officials are now taking steps, including putting all assembly staff through competence tests and additional training, to make sure such malfunctions don't happen again.

The rocket producer will also take apart two other rockets that have been recently assembled and are due to launch in the coming weeks and then re-assemble them, Skorobogatov said.

====== 1507 ========

COUNTRIES VOTE UNANIMOUSLY TO CHANGE THE WAY WE MEASURE A KILO

The international system of measurements has been overhauled with new definitions for the kilogram and other key units.

At a meeting in Versailles, France, countries voted unanimously to approve wide-ranging changes that underpin vital human activities like global trade and scientific innovation.

The most closely watched change was the revision to the kilo, the measurement of mass.

Until now, it has been defined as the mass of a platinum-iridium lump - the so-called Grand K - that is kept in a secured vault on the outskirts of Paris.

It has been the world's one true kilo, against which all others were measured, since 1889.

It is now being retired and replaced by a new definition based on a scientific formula.

Scroll down for video

The international system of measurements has been overhauled with new definitions for the kilogram and other key units. Here the head of the International Bureau of Weights and Measures holds a replica of the International Prototype Kilogram, the Grand K (file photo)

In their vote, countries also unanimously approved updates to three other key units: the kelvin for temperature, the ampere for electrical current and the mole for the amount of a substance.

The vote was greeted by sustained applause and cheers, after the 50-plus countries in attendance said yes or oui when asked one by one for their decision.

The change will have no discernible impact for most people. Their bathroom scales won't get kinder and kilos and grams won't change in supermarkets.

But scientists are hailing the vote as a mini-revolution in the field of weights and measures, which underpins vital human activities like international trade.

And it will mean redundancy for the Grand K and its six official copies.

A replica of the International Prototype Kilogram. The golf ball-sized metal cylinder at the heart of the world's system for measuring mass is heading into retirement. It has been the world's one true kilo, against which all others were measured, since 1889 (file photo)

Scientists are hailing the vote to approve the new standards as a mini-revolution in the field of weights and measures, which underpins vital human activities like international trade. Pictured - a replica of the Grand K

In their vote, countries also unanimously approved updates to three other key units, including the metre. Pictured - a replica of the International Meter Prototype, a metre-long metal bar. It will now be defined as the length that light travels in a vacuum in 1/299,792,458th of a second

All modern mass measurements are traceable back to the Grand K - from micrograms of pharmaceutical medicines to kilos of apples and pears and tonnes of steel or cement.

The problem is, the 'international prototype kilogram' doesn't always weigh the same.

Even inside its three glass bell jars, it gets dusty and dirty, and is affected by the atmosphere. Sometimes, it really needs a wash.

Just as the metre - once the length of a bar of platinum-iridium, also kept in Paris - is now defined by the constant speed of light in a vacuum, so a kilogram will be defined by a tiny but immutable fundamental value called the 'Planck constant'.

The new definition involves an apparatus called the Kibble balance, which makes use of the constant to measure the mass of an object using a precisely measured electromagnetic force.

Scientists have spent decades developing a new global weight standard. The device, known as a Kibble balance (pictured), measures tiny changes in electrical current to calculate the gravitational force acting on a mass - the two components of weight

HOW WOULD A KIBBLE BALANCE MEASURE THE PLANCK CONSTANT? A Kibble balance would redefine the kilogram by giving scientists the most precise measurement yet of the Planck constant. It comprises a wire coil inside a magnetic field that is suspended from the arm of a balance. A kilogram mass is also placed on this arm exerting a force downwards due to gravity. An electrical current is passed through the coil generating a force, the strength of which depends on the size of the current, the strength of the field and the length of the coil. The value of current is varied until the downward force from the kilo mass is balanced by the force from the coil in the magnetic field. The mass is then removed and the coil is moved in the field, which induces a voltage in the coil. By tracking the current and voltage the Planck constant can be measured in terms of mass, length and time.

It has taken years of work to fine-tune the new definition to ensure the switchover will be smooth.

While the extra accuracy will be a boon to scientists, for the average consumer buying flour or bananas, there will be absolutely no change whatsoever.

Even in retirement, the Grand K and its six official copies - collectively known as 'the heir and the spares' - will still be kept in the high-security vault on the outskirts of Paris where they are stored.

That's because scientists want to keep on studying them, to see whether their masses gradually change over time.

Only exceedingly rarely have they seen the light of day since 1889, when they were taken out on a very few occasions to check whether other master kilograms that nations around the world use were still accurately calibrated, give or take the mass of a dust particle or two.

The metal kilo is being replaced by a definition based on Planck's constant, which is part of one of the most celebrated equations in physics but also devilishly difficult to explain.

Suffice to say that the updated definition will, in time, spare nations the need to occasionally send their kilos back to France for calibration against the Grand K.

Scientists instead should be able to accurately calculate an exact kilo without having to measure one lump of metal against another.

====== 1508 ========

POLAR BEAR NUMBERS IN THE CHUKCHI SEA BETWEEN RUSSIA AND ALASKA HAVE CLIMBED TO 3,000

The first formal count of polar bears in waters between the United States and Russia indicates they're doing better than some of their cousins elsewhere.

Polar bears are listed as a threatened species because of diminished sea ice due to climate change.

But university and federal researchers estimate a healthy and abundant population of nearly 3,000 animals in the Chukchi Sea off Alaska's northwest coast, according to a study.

This bucks the trend for polar bears which are dying out in large numbers and experts warn that the fate of Chukchi bears may suffer the same plight in the future.

Earlier this week a controversial Canadian local government report found polar bear numbers in the region studied were so high they threaten native Inuit populations.

The findings were bitterly contested by environmental scientists who say that climate change has simply pushed the bears closer to humans as they search for food.

Scroll down for video

The first formal count of polar bears in waters between the United States and Russia indicates they're doing better than some of their cousins elsewhere (file photo)

'It the near-term, it's absolutely good news,' said lead author of the new research Eric Regehr.

He began the project more than a decade ago as a US Fish and Wildlife Service biologist and last year joined the University of Washington's Polar Science Centre.

In the longer term, it doesn't mean the Chukchi Sea bear population will not be affected, according to the study published Wednesday in Scientific Reports.

'Polar bears need ice to hunt seals, and the ice is projected to decline until the underlying problem of climate change is addressed,' Dr Regehr said.

The study shows there is variation around the world in the effects of sea ice loss on polar bears, he said.

'Some subpopulations are already declining while others are still doing OK,' he said.

Polar bears are classified as marine mammals because they spend most of their lives on sea ice.

Less sea ice means less productive time to hunt ice seals, more time on shore and longer, energy-sapping swims.

The world's polar bears are divided into 19 subpopulations, including two in US waters.

Besides Chukchi bears, the US shares the southern Beaufort Sea population with Canada.

Stress in southern Beaufort bears from a loss of sea ice was partly why the United States in 2008 declared polar bears a threatened species.

Fewer cubs were surviving into their second year and adult males weighed less and had smaller skulls, the US Geological Survey found.

The world's polar bears are divided into 19 subpopulations, including two in US waters. Besides Chukchi bears, the United States shares the southern Beaufort Sea population with Canada (file photo)

Researcher Steven Amstrup at the time said the trends were consistent with changes in nutritional status likely associated with declines in sea ice.

A more recent study by USGS researcher Karyn Rode found that Chukchi bears spend more time on shore and have almost 30 fewer days to hunt seals on ice than 20 years ago, Dr Regehr said.

However, that doesn't appear to have affected the population, he said.

Polar bears have an amazing ability to build fat reserves, Dr Regehr said, and the Chukchi's abundant seal population apparently allows bears to compensate for the loss of hunting time.

The difference with the southern Beaufort was obvious from an airplane, he said.

'It's visually striking to me, the difference, having worked in both places,' Dr Regehr said.

When ice melts, many Chukchi bears rest on Russia's Wrangell Island, where they occasionally can find a whale or walrus carcass.

The Chukchi population study used data collected by sampling about 60 polar bears between 2008 and 2016. Some were fitted with GPS transmitters.

The data was used in a model designed to estimate population size for highly mobile large carnivores.

Blaine Griffen, an associate professor of biology at Brigham Young University, said the study was good news.

'It's nice to see that there's at least one population that's doing better than others,' he said.

The difference may be geography, he said.

The Chukchi Sea has a more extensive continental shelf area with primary productivity that enables the food chain to support seals.

The research agrees with past studies that suggested Chukchi bears would do better than bears elsewhere, Dr Griffen said.

The news comes just days after the publication of a Canadian report that found bear populations in Canada were growing.

The controversial report claims nine polar bear sub-populations are increasing in size. This goes in contrast to conservationists' estimates. The graphic above from WWF shows only two small sub-populations appear to be growing (green), several others are considered to be stable (blue) and one is known to be declining (red). There are still many uncertainties, though, as indicated by the white circles

The draft report, which is set to be published by the end of this year, claims that polar bear populations are much higher than scientists estimated - and are actually increasing.

'Inuit believe there are now so many bears that public safety has become a major concern,' the proposed plan, which has been seen by the Canadian website Windsor Star, claims.

'Public safety concerns, combined with the effects of polar bears on other species, suggest that in many Nunavut communities, the polar bear may have exceeded the co-existence threshold.'

The controversial findings, which are being discussed in Iqaluit this week, say that 'no declines have currently been attributed to climate change.

'(Inuit knowledge) acknowledges that polar bears are exposed to the effects of climate change, but suggests that they are adaptable', the report claims.

According to scientists just one polar bear population is growing but the report claims there are nine.

Polar bears have become one of the enduring symbols of the environmental cause (pictured, on Somerset Island in Canada). However, a new report says bears are growing in such numbers that they cannot currently safely co-exist with humans in northern Canada

The findings - which have not yet been released online - consist of submissions from Inuit groups across Canada's northern territories.

Experts have criticised the findings as being just 'plain wrong'.

Andrew Derocher, a University of Alberta polar bear expert, agrees that dangerous bear-human encounters are becoming more frequent.

However, he says that this is because climate change is reducing the size of the sea ice.

'They will move into communities seeking food', he said.

Around 16,000 polar bears are estimated to live in the arctic regions of Canada, which is 65 per cent of the total global population.

It is estimated that three per cent - or 600 - are killed annually, mostly by Inuit hunters.

====== 1509 ========

PLANT 'SPEED BREEDING' COULD LEAD TO CLIMATE CHANGE RESISTANT CROPS

Plants capable of surviving disease, drought and climate change will be made possible by 'speed-breeding', scientists have claimed.

The technique, first developed by Nasa, subjects crops to 22 hours a day of LED light to promote rapid growth in plants.

It speeds up their breeding cycle and allows for far greater yields of the plant.

The method allows six generations of wheat to be grown in a calendar year, compared to just two cycles when using traditional methods.

Researchers claim that the technique, alongside cloning, would allow significant improvements to plants without resorting to genetic modification.

Scroll down for video

A team of British researchers made improvements to Nasa's original method and made the system just as effective in vast glass houses as it is in small desktop containers (pictured). The method allows six generations of wheat to be grown in a year, compared to two normally

Dr Brande Wulff, a wheat scientist at the John Innes Centre in Norwich, predicts that European crop research and breeding will become more dependent on speed breeding in the light of these developments.

'Speed breeding allows researchers to rabidly mobilise the genetic variation found in wild relatives of crops and introduce it into elite varieties that can be grown by farmers,' he said.

'The EU ruling that heavily regulates gene editing means we are more reliant on speed breeding to grow sturdier, more resilient crops.'

A team of British researchers made improvements to Nasa's method and made the system just as effective in mall desktop containers as it is in vast glass houses.

The ability to work at these scales gives scientists greater opportunities than ever before to breed disease resistant, climate resilient and nutritious crops.

Project leader Dr Brande Wulff, a wheat scientist at the John Innes Centre, Norwich, said: 'In this institute there are about 500 scientists who are in a virtual race against time to produce better crops to face tomorrow's challenges.

'One of the great limitations we face is growing the plants from seed to seed. If we can do this faster, we can get results faster - and produce the crops faster.'

Farmers will have to produce up to 80 per cent more food by 2050 to feed nine billion people.

The study, published in the journal Nature Protocols, makes use of enhanced LED lighting to optimise photosynthesis and boost growth.

Changes to soil composition, lighting, temperature, spacing of plants and premature harvest have cut the seed-to-seed generation time in wheat to just eight weeks.

By shortening cycles scientists and plant breeders can fast-track genetic improvements such as yield gain, disease resistance and climate resilience.

This applies to many staple crops including wheat, barley, oilseed rape and pea, say the researchers.

Being able to do this in a compact desktop chamber enables affordable, cutting-edge research to take place before the experiments are scaled up to larger glass houses.

The latest advances come in the wake of the Court of Justice of the European Union ruling crops improved using modern DNA-editing techniques should be classed as genetically modified organisms.

The decision was greeted with dismay among plant scientists, breeders and farming industry leaders in the UK as it frustrates efforts to meet the challenge of a growing world population.

WHAT ARE GENE-EDITED CROPS AND HOW ARE THEY DIFFERENT TO GM PLANTS? Gene editing promises to produce 'super-crops' by altering or cutting out genes that naturally occur in plants. Unlike genetically modified (GM) plants, gene-edited (GE) crops contain no 'foreign' DNA from other species. GE crops are produced using CRISPR, a new tool for making precise edits in DNA. Scientists use a specialised protein to make tiny changes to the plant's DNA that could occur naturally or through selective breeding. GM crops have had foreign genes added to their DNA - a process that often cannot happen naturally. The US, Brazil, Canada and Argentina have indicated they will exempt GE crops that do not contain foreign DNA from GM regulations. The European Commission is waiting for a judgement from the European court.

Farmers will have to produce up to 80 per cent more food by 2050 to feed nine billion people. The study, published in the journal Nature Protocols , makes use of enhanced LED lighting (pictured) for up to 22 hours a day to optimise photosynthesis and boost growth

Dr Wulff said crop research and breeding will become more dependent on speed breeding following this ruling.

He said: 'Speed breeding allows researchers to rapidly mobilise the genetic variation found in wild relatives of crops and introduce it into elite varieties that can be grown by farmers.

'The EU ruling that heavily regulates gene editing means we are more reliant on speed breeding to grow sturdier, more resilient crops.'

His team has developed techniques such as rapid gene discovery and cloning that - alongside speed breeding - would allow crop improvements via a non-GM route.

Collaborators in Australia - currently experiencing one of the worst droughts on record - are using the technology to quickly cycle genetic improvements to make crops more resilient to lack of rainfall.

Dr Wulff predicts the speed breeding technology will become the norm in research institutes.

He said: 'We know more and more institutes across the world will be adopting this technology and by sharing these protocols we are providing a pathway for accelerating crop research.'

The refinements outlined aim to optimise the technology as a research tool. Changes to soil composition, lighting, temperature, spacing of plants and premature harvest have cut the seed-to-seed generation time in wheat to just eight weeks.

The ability to work at the small scale gives scientists greater opportunity than ever before to breed disease resistant, climate resilient and nutritious crops. Tackling this issue means scientists can respond quicker to emerging diseases, changing climate and increased demand

First author Sreya Ghosh, a PhD student in Dr Wulff's lab, added: 'It was important to us we developed something that could be bought quickly and set up with minimum skill.

'This scaled down cabinet means the technology is accessible and democratic. Researchers all over the world can set it up on their desk to get the benefits of speed breeding for their research programme.'

Generation time in most plant species represents a bottleneck in applied research programmes and breeding.

Tackling this issue means scientists can respond quicker to emerging diseases, changing climate and increased demand for certain traits.

New varieties are critical but it can take between 10 and 20 years to breed resistant or productive characteristics into crops.

So scientists are engaged in a race against time to breed staple crops that can both survive climate change and yield bigger harvests.

The method used for centuries of growing one crop a year in variable weather conditions and then selecting the seeds from the best plants is no longer viable in fast-changing climatic conditions.

Scientists are concerned that for some years there have been few improvements in yields of grain.

It is hoped the technique will yield new varieties of crops that can be grown on a commercial scale within 10 years.

If this could be achieved, it would increase productivity in the same way as the green revolution of the 1960s, when new crop varieties, modern farm practices, and use of fertilisers saved millions of people from starvation.

====== 1510 ========

APPLE PARTNERS WITH OSCAR-WINNING ENTERTAINMENT FIRM TO MAKE MOVIES FOR ITS STREAMING SERVICE

Apple has signed a multi-year agreement with entertainment company A24 to create and produce original content for its upcoming streaming service.

A source familiar with Apple's plans said the TV shows and movies will be available on Apple devices starting 'sometime next year'.

New York based A24 has released several Oscar-winning films including Moonlight, Amy, Lady Bird and Room.

Apple has allocated a budget of roughly £800 million ($1 bn) for programming and securing a line up of original content with Hollywood heavyweights.

The terms of the deal, the latest signed to expand Apple's growing content slate, have not been disclosed.

Scroll down for video

Apple has signed a multi-year agreement with entertainment company A24, to create and produce original films for it's upcoming streaming service. A24 has released several Oscar-winning films including Moonlight, Amy, LadyBird and Room (stock image)

The company recently announced that Oprah Winfrey has also signed a multi-year deal, in which she will create 'original programs that embrace her incomparable ability to connect with audiences around the world'.

Competitors were also said to be pursuing deals with Ms Winfrey.

The tech giant has also made a two-season order of an untitled drama starring actresses Jennifer Aniston and Reese Witherspoon about a network morning show.

Pulling in a much younger audience, Sesame Workshop, the makers of Sesame Street, have signed a deal with the company marking its foray into children's programming.

For sci-fi fans, Steven Spielberg is said to be working with the company to remake 1980s anthology series 'Amazing Stories.'

The tech giant has also made a two-season order of an untitled drama about the lives of people working on morning TV starring Jennifer Aniston, left and Reese Witherspoon, right (file photos)

Oprah Winfrey has agreed to produce content for the company, also a multiyear deal, in which she will create 'original programs that embrace her incomparable ability to connect with audiences around the world' (file photo)

The move into Hollywood began last year when services Apple VP Eddy Cue hired celebrated executives Jamie Erlicht and Zack Van Amburg from Sony Pictures.

The new deal comes at a time when top online streaming service providers including Netflix and Prime Video are creating their own content to compete for viewers.

Also to launch streaming services next year are HBO, who are spending billions to create original content, and Disney, who are buying £54.71 million ($71.3 bn) worth of assets from 20th Century Fox.

====== 1511 ========

VIRGIN MEDIA AND EE ARE FINED £13.3M FOR OVERCHARGING BROADBAND CUSTOMERS

Virgin Media and EE have been fined a combined £13.3 million for overcharging nearly 500,000 phone and broadband customers in a landmark action by Ofcom.

The watchdog said both companies failed to make clear the charges customers would have to pay if they ended their contract ahead of schedule.

Ofcom's investigation found about 400,000 EE customers with recurring monthly discounts were over-billed, which saw them overpaying up to £4.3 million.

Virgin Media and EE have been fined a total of £13.3million by Ofcom for overcharging nearly 500,000 broadband customers. Pictured is a Virgin Media advert featuring billionaire founder Sir Richard Branson and Olympic sprinter Usain Bolt

It added that almost 82,000 Virgin Media customers were overcharged a total of just under £2.8 million.

Ofcom confirmed any customers who think they were overcharged by either firm but have not received a refund can still get in touch with them or their provider to resolve the matter.

A £240 penalty for moving Martin Eldridge, Virgin Media customer Martin Eldridge, a loyal Virgin Media customer for 13 years, was hit with an early exit fee of £240 when he moved house. He had to cancel his internet and pay TV service because he was moving from Oxfordshire to a new area in Dorset not covered by the Virgin network. While it is common practice for broadband providers to charge early exit fees, Virgin was the only major firm to make customers pay to cancel if they move to an area it does not supply. Mr Eldridge, 52, whose monthly bill was £71, made an unsuccessful complaint to the independent ombudsman and Virgin Media passed the case to a debt collection agency and put a black mark on his credit record. He described the firm’s actions as ‘disgusting’, adding: ‘It is an unjust fee. Virgin ruined my credit rating for six years.’ Virgin Media said the early exit fee had been correctly applied in this case.

Ofcom fined EE £6.3million and Virgin Media £7million for breaking consumer protection rules.

Gaucho Rasmussen, Ofcom's Director of Investigations and Enforcement, said: 'EE and Virgin Media broke our rules by overcharging people who ended their contracts early.

'Those people were left out of pocket, and the charges amounted to millions of pounds.

'That is unacceptable. These fines send a clear message to all phone and broadband firms that they must play by the rules, in the interests of their customers.'

Meanwhile Virgin Media has vowed to appeal against Ofcom's decision.

Tom Mockridge, chief executive of Virgin Media, said: 'We profoundly disagree with Ofcom's ruling. This decision and fine is not justified, proportionate or reasonable.

'A small percentage of customers were charged an incorrect amount when they ended one or more of their services early and for that we are very sorry.

'As soon as we became aware of the mistake we apologised and took swift action to put it right by paying refunds, with interest, to everyone affected.

'For those few people we could not locate, we have made an equivalent donation to charity.'

A spokesman for EE added: 'We accept Ofcom's findings and recognise that we have made a mistake. We apologise to customers with discounted tariffs who paid more than they should have when cancelling their contracts early.

'We've already refunded customers and changed the way we calculate early termination charges, and we will continue to focus on ensuring our policies are clear and fair for all customers.'

Ofcom said it launched the investigations are running a monitoring and enforcement programme after noticing a number of complaints about overcharging.

Although both probes have concluded, the monitoring programme remains in place and further investigations could be opened should the watchdog receive complaints with sufficient evidence.

Around 400,000 customers were affected at EE, while another 82,000 were overcharged by Virgin Media

Ofcom confirmed it is not currently investigating any other firms for overcharging customers ending their contracts.

A spokeswoman said: 'We have no investigations into any other provider currently but the programme is ongoing so we are still monitoring compliance with the rules.

'If we gather evidence that raised concerns about another provider it is within our right to open another investigation.

What to do if you think you have been overcharged for ending a contract early Customers of any broadband provider who think they have been overcharged for ending their contract early can get in touch with Ofcom via www.ofcom.org.uk/complain-to-ofcom. The watchdog encouraged EE customers in a similar situation to go to the firm directly after confirming the company had co-operated with its investigation and refunded customers. EE customers can call 0800 079 0125 or visit ee.co.uk/help/help-new/make-a-complaint.

'Our door is always open should any customers think they have been overcharged.'

The watchdog said any EE customers who think they were overcharged should get in touch with the firm directly to discuss a refund.

Ofcom's investigation found EE did not clearly set out the exit fees that would be charged to customers on its discount contracts over a six-year period.

It discovered that up to 15million discount contracts for EE's mobile, landline and broadband customers required them to pay excessive early exit charges, of which 400,000 decided to leave and were over-billed.

Virgin Media overcharged customers leaving contracts early for almost a year, according to Ofcom.

Gillian Guy, of Citizens Advice, said: ‘Yet again mobile and broadband companies have been caught overcharging their customers. This is another in a long line of failings in the mobile and broadband industry.’

Alex Neill, of the consumer group Which?, said: ‘We would always advise customers who are unhappy with their deal to switch to a different provider, so it’s shocking that these customers have been penalised with unclear and excessive exit charges.’

====== 1512 ========

GOVERNMENTS, ELECTRIC VEHICLES AND SOLAR POWER ARE FUELLING A BOOM IN DEMAND FOR BATTERY

A dramatic rise in demand for electric cars and solar power could see a peak in demand for battery storage that will cost over $620 billion globally within 22 years.

Bloomberg New Energy Finance has revealed new figures showing that the global energy storage market will grow to 942 gigawatts by 2040.

That's double the US's energy consumption for the entire year in 2008.

Elon Musk's 100 megawatt (129MWh) lithium ion battery near Jamestown, in South Australia's mid-north.

The Long-Term Energy Storage Outlook says the capital cost of a utility-scale lithium-ion storage system will fall another 52 per cent by 2030, according to the in-depth report published by Bloomberg.

This will transform the economic value for batteries in both the vehicle and electricity sector.

Cheap battery costs will mean renewable power sources - particularly solar and wind - will be able to fuel grids even when there isn't a breeze blowing or overnight.

Governments across the world are also spurring demand for electric cars and solar power.

Yayoi Sekine, a New York-based analyst at BNEF and co-author of the report, said in an interview that costs have come down faster than they expected.

'Batteries are going to permeate our lives,' she said.

Bloomberg New Energy Finance revealed new figures showing that the global energy storage market will grow

Declining battery costs are a key reason for the boom which will mean multiple industries and technologies are helping to fight climate change

Despite the ever-growing demand for batteries, even in the face of constrained supply, they have continued to decline in price over the past 20 years.

This is largely due to a growing battery manufacturing industry enjoying significant economies of scale, as well as advances in technology, bringing costs down.

The report forecasts that the cheap cost of batteries will mean multiple industries and technologies are helping to fight climate change.

Solar power until recently was only a daytime use source of energy but now batteries can store energy unlocked from the sun.

A central player in the boom will be China, who are building up their battery-manufacturing capacity.

California has also introduced legislation that would require all of the state's electricity to come from carbon-free sources by 2045.

Edward Fenster, the executive chairman of San Francisco-based rooftop-solar company Sunrun Inc. 'Storage is just so sensibly the next step in the evolution of renewable energy,' 'If we're going to get to 100 percent renewable energy, we'll need storage.'

====== 1513 ========

WHATSAPP GROUP CHATS ARE A MAJOR CONCERN FOR PARENTS WHO FEAR THEIR CHILD WILL BE CYBERBULLIED

A shocking 62 per cent of UK parents are worried that their child is being cyber bullied in group chats via WhatsApp, according to a new survey.

Eight out of ten parents expressed concern about the nature of closed group chats, used on platforms such as WhatsApp.

The survey of more than 2,000 parents was conducted by child online safety organisation Internet Matters.

Parents were concerned that the nature of a closed group is that they do not know what the content of the conversation is and how it affects their child.

Mothers and fathers of children aged 11 to 13 proved to be the most concerned overall.

Scroll down for video

A recent survey shows that eight out of ten parents expressed concern about the nature of closed group chats used on platforms such as WhatsApp. It found that 62 per cent of parents worry their children will not open up about harmful issues they face online

'Group chat can often be a source of upset for kids – from one child posting a picture that makes someone feel excluded to another not being included in a group at all,' warned psychologist Dr Linda Papadopoulos.

'But group chats also have the power to stop kids feeling isolated as it can give them an opportunity to stamp out poor conduct and stand up for one another.'

The findings showed that 62 per cent of parents worried that their child will not open up about issues they face online.

'Online groups are one of the most common ways children communicate with each other – whether that be a group that includes their whole class or a few select friends,' said Internet Matters chief executive Carolyn Bunting.

'Crucially, group chats are not public, which makes it challenging to parents to know what's going on.'

The organisation has released the findings to mark Stop Speak Support Day, an anti-bullying initiative set up by the Duke of Cambridge during Anti-Bullying Week.

Today, the Prince gave a speech in which he accused tech giants of 'being on the back foot' when it comes to cyberbullying.

He said much of the widespread optimism when the internet first became a staple of life over a decade ago has given way to concern and fear.

Parents were concerned that the nature of a closed group is that they do not know what the content of the conversation is and how it affects their child. Mothers and fathers of children aged 11 to 13 proved to be the most concerned overall (stock image)

Meanwhile, the Government is currently considering whether to enforce legislation on social networks to protect young people.

Margot James, Minister for Digital, Culture and Media said recently that she is considering a deadline to speed up the removal of harmful content on social media.

James said that she would also tackle the issue of teenagers watching pornography online.

====== 1514 ========

CAN YOU ACE THIS MATH IQ TEST? QUIZ CREATOR CLAIMS ONLY 4% OF THE POPULATION CAN GET OVER 7/10

Fancy yourself a bit of a math whiz? Then this is the quiz to push you to your mental arithmetic limits.

A new test shared on quiz site Playbuzz is leaving even the most brilliant of minds stumped, with its creator - Michael Rogers - revealing that only 4 per cent of the population can ace the tricky test and get seven out of its ten mind-boggling questions correct.

According to Rogers, those who do ace the quiz are people who can ‘think logically and symbolically’ and are able to easily communicate ‘mathematical concepts in creative and intuitive ways’.

A Playbuzz quiz creator has challenged players to try and ace this tricky mathematics test

But for those many people who end up failing the quiz, Rogers has a message of hope, insisting: 'You didn’t pass, so you’re probably just too imaginative for math.

'That's actually awesome.'

Not everyone is convinced about the test's legitimacy however, with a fair few people commenting on the quiz to state their cynicism over just how tricky it is.

'Absolute c**p,' one person commented, while another added: 'It was the same math equation issue every time. If people solve them all the same way they should either get 10/10 or 0/10!'

It's not the first time that Rogers has baffled the internet with a tricky quiz; in September, he shared a test on Playbuzz that he claimed only those with an IQ of 153 or higher would ace.

The lengthy 25-question quiz tested players' historical, geographical and religious knowledge with multiple choice answers - and more than a few red herrings.

But his latest quiz may have proven all the more impossible, if his claims about the number of people who can ace it are true.

So, if you're keen to find out if you're a math genius, take the quiz for yourself and see. Just scroll down the page to answer the questions and then go to the bottom to see how many you’ve got right...

====== 1515 ========

LOCKHEED MARTIN BEGINS BUILDING 'SON OF CONCORDE' SUPERSONIC PLANE

Lockheed Martin has begun building a 'son of Concorde' plane that could herald the return of supersonic passenger travel.

Officially known as the X-59 Quiet Supersonic Technology aircraft, it is being built with NASA to perfect quiet sonic booms that would allow craft to go supersonic over land.

Lockheed Martin said the move 'marks a milestone to bring supersonic commercial travel over land one step closer to reality.'

Scroll down for video

Officially known as the X-59 Quiet Supersonic Technology aircraft, it is being built with NASA to perfect quiet sonic booms that would allow craft to go supersonic over land. The X-59 will conduct its first flight in 2021. It is designed to cruise at 55,000 feet at a speed of about 940 mph and create a sound about as loud as a car door closing, 75 Perceived Level decibel (PLdB), instead of a sonic boom.

'The start of manufacturing on the project marks a great leap forward for the X-59 and the future of quiet supersonic commercial travel,' said Peter Iosifidis, Low Boom Flight Demonstrator program manager Lockheed Martin Skunk Works.

'The long, slender design of the aircraft is the key to achieving a low sonic boom.

'As we enter into the manufacturing phase, the aircraft structure begins to take shape, bringing us one step closer to enabling supersonic travel for passengers around the world.'

Earlier this year, NASA selected Lockheed Martin to design, build and flight test the Low Boom Flight Demonstrator.

The X-59 will conduct its first flight in 2021.

It will be used to collect community response data on the acceptability of the quiet sonic boom generated by the aircraft, helping NASA establish an acceptable commercial supersonic noise standard to overturn current regulations banning supersonic travel over land.

Nasa has announced a series of new tests for its 1,100mph (1,770kph) supersonic commercial airliner tipped to be the follow-up to the legendary Concorde. The plane (artist's impression) aims to cut out the noise associated with supersonic travel

Pictured, a Lockheed Martin technician at their Palmdale, California, facility prepares a machine to shave the first piece of NASA’s X-59 QueSST aircraft, which later will be integrated into the overall structure.

X-59 is designed to cruise at 55,000 feet at a speed of about 940 mph and create a sound about as loud as a car door closing, 75 Perceived Level decibel (PLdB), instead of a sonic boom.

Earlier this month NASA began conducting tests to see how Texas residents react to noise from experimental aircraft that will dramatically reduce flight times by half.

The space agency launched a research project on Monday as they continue to experiment for it's next airliner the X-59 or the 'Son of Concorde', as it's dubbed by aviation fans.

The aim of the testing is to see if residents living near the Texas Gulf Coast hear noise from the jets, travelling faster than the speed of sound, without making the explosive noise of a sonic boom.

The company claims that the noise it will make doing 940mph or 1,515 kmph will be 'no louder than the clunk of a car door closing'.

WHAT IS NASA'S 'SON OF CONCORDE' X-PLANE? Nasa is developing a 1,100mph (1,770kph) aircraft that has been dubbed the 'son of Concorde'. The vehicle is the first in a series of aircraft Nasa is developing with Lockheed Martin in a quest to build a commercially viable supersonic jet. It is designed to fly at Mach 1.4 (1,100mph / 1,700 kph) at an altitude of 55,000 feet (10 miles). Dubbed the X-59 Quiet Supersonic Transport (QueSST), the research craft aims to cut out the sonic booms associated with supersonic travel. Pictured is an artist's impression of the Quiet Supersonic Transport (QueSST) low-boom flight demonstrator (LBFD) The aircraft is shaped to separate the shocks and expansions associated with supersonic flight to reduce the volume of the shaped signature, and was developed by Lockheed's Skunk Works over 20 years. The team is hoping to achieve a sonic boom 60 dBA lower than other supersonic aircraft, such as Concorde. Recent research has shown it is possible for a supersonic airplane to be shaped in such a way that the shock waves it forms when flying faster than the speed of sound can generate a sound at ground level so quiet it will hardly will be noticed by the public, if at all.

Jerry Baker, 46, who lives behind the island's sea wall, is one of the 500 residents recruited by NASA to listen out for noise and heard 'several loud bangs' on Monday.

'The first one was the loudest,' he said. 'It rattled the windows.' Yesterday the thumps were quieter. 'I just heard one, right at eleven o'clock.' 'Very small, two tiny bumps.'

NASA hopes the result of the sonic tests will convince aviation authorities to change regulations on flights over land to allow for a new generation of supersonic jets.

Two F/A-18's used in the trials climbed to at 55,000 feet/ 17 km above the gulf of Mexico and began a dive towards Texas accelerating trough the sound barrier about 23 miles from the coast before pulling up and back out to sea

Concorde operated from 1976 until it petered out in 2003 because of the cost of running he aircraft, the crash of 2000 and threat of terrorism after the September 11th attacks and noise of loud sonic booms in residential areas.

The first flight of the X-59, which could one day fly from London to New York in just three hours without giving off a loud sonic boom, is scheduled for 2021.

The craft could become the first commercial supersonic aircraft to carry passengers since the iconic Anglo-French jet Concorde was decommissioned 15 years ago.

Ahead of this the space agency will use a modified combat jet to check the 'acoustic signature' of the engines to be used in the airliner, by sending it into a series of dives.

It has recruited 500 people on the ground to then answer surveys about the noise generated by the the F/A-18 Hornet, to ensure the flight is quiet as it flies over Texas.

NASa and Lockheed Martin have already completed wind tunnel and simulation tests of the radical design

Before the aircraft takes to the skies, Nasa is investigating whether members of the public are put off by the noise produced by X-59 when it breaks the sound barrier.

Tests scheduled for November will see an F-18 fighter jet conduct dive manoeuvres off the shores of Galveston, Texas - an island city near Houston.

The plane will rapidly descend from almost 50,000 feet (15,200 metres), briefly going supersonic and firing off the sound likely to come from X-59 aircraft.

The noise, which Nasa calls a 'sonic thump', should sound more like a car door slamming as opposed to the booms produced by existing supersonic aircraft.

The agency will measure the sounds using sensors on the ground while gathering public reaction through a series of surveys.

Sasha Ellis, a NASA spokesperson for the X-59 mission, told Newsweek : 'We're solely focused on addressing the challenges of quiet supersonic flights over land, reducing that sonic boom to a sonic thump.'

Nasa pilot Jim Less will fire off 'quiet' sonic booms over a small city in Texas this month in a bid to gauge public reaction to the dampened supersonic thuds. Pictured is Less with the F-18 fighter jet aboard which he will perform the research

Alexandra Loubeau, Nasa's team lead for sonic boom community response research at Langley, said in July: 'We'll never know exactly what everyone heard.

'We won't have a noise monitor on their shoulder inside their home.

'But we'd like to at least have an estimate of the range of noise levels that they actually heard.'

X-59, which Nasa is developing with Lockheed Martin's aeronautics branch, is scheduled to make its first flight in 2022.

Originally named the Low-Flight Flight Demonstrator by Nasa, the agency announced in June that the aircraft was to be called X-59 QueSST going forward.

The US Air Force made the name change in-part as a hat tip American X-plane history, which began in 1947 with the world's first supersonic plane, the the Bell X-1.

'For everyone working on this important project, this is great news and we're thrilled with the designation,' Jaiwon Shin, associate administrator for Nasa's Aeronautics Research Mission Directorate, said in a statement in June.

Nasa is developing the aircraft with Lockheed Martin's aeronautics branch with test flights planned for 2022. The plane is dubbed the Quiet Supersonic Transport (QueSST) low-boom flight demonstrator (artist's impression)

The X-59 project aims to cut out the noisy sonic booms that echoed above cities in the era of Concorde, while travelling at speeds of 1,100mph (Mach 1.4 / 1,700 km/h).

The loud booms that rang out whenever a Concorde broke the sound barrier were often described as 'unsettling' by members of the public, which ultimately limited the aircraft to flights over the Atlantic when it began carrying passengers in 1976.

X-59 is designed to stop shockwaves triggered by the movement of air particles when an aircraft breaks the sound barrier from merging - a phenomenon that gives off the telltale sonic boom of supersonic aircraft.

Nasa hopes to reduce the sound of the sonic boom to a quiet thud, similar to the sound of thunder rumbling in the distance or a neighbour closing their door.

Nasa is developing the aircraft with Lockheed Martin's aeronautics branch with test flights planned for 2022. The plane is dubbed the Quiet Supersonic Transport (QueSST) low-boom flight demonstrator (artist's impression)

'With the X-59 you're still going to have multiple shockwaves because of the wings on the aircraft that create lift and the volume of the plane,' said Ed Haering, a Nasa aerospace engineer at Nasa's Armstrong Flight Research Center in California.

'But the airplane's shape is carefully tailored such that those shockwaves do not combine.

'Instead of getting a loud boom-boom, you're going to get at least two quiet thump-thump sounds, if you even hear them at all.'

Nasa's November tests will produce similar shockwaves using an F-18 fighter jet to conduct sharp manoeuvres in the air.

The aircraft, pilot by Nasa researcher Jim Less, will dive from 49,000 feet (15,000m) and go briefly supersonic before levelling off at 30,000 feet (9,000m).

Shockwaves produced by the manoeuvre will concentrate directly below the aircraft in the form of a very loud, focussed pair of sonic booms.

A few miles from the dive points, the noise quickly trails off as they spread out and weaken.

Flights conducted by Nasa in November will study the US public's reactions to 'quiet' supersonic noises above their homes. Pictured is an artist's impression of the Quiet Supersonic Transport (QueSST) low-boom flight demonstrator (LBFD)

'The result in that area: a pair of quiet sonic booms – soft thumps, really – which people on the ground, including those Nasa researchers and resident volunteers, might barely notice, if they hear anything at all,' the agency wrote in a statement.

QueSST is the latest addition to the X-series of experimental aircraft and rockets, used to test and evaluate new technologies and aerodynamic concepts.

HOW WILL NASA REDUCE THE SOUND OF SONIC BOOMS? In a conventional supersonic aircraft, shockwaves from the nose, cockpit, inlets, wings and other features come together as they move through the atmosphere into strong shocks emanating from the nose and tail. These are known as bow and tail shocks, respectively. As these shockwaves pass over the ground, air pressure rises sharply, declines, then rises rapidly again. It's this that produces the classic 'double-bang' sonic boom. In a conventional supersonic aircraft, shockwaves from the nose, cockpit, inlets, wings and other features come together as they move through the atmosphere into strong shocks emanating from the nose and tail Reshaping the aircraft to produce a longer, more slender shape is the best way to generate shockwaves of lower, more equal strength that do not form into such strong bow and tail shocks. Nasa and other organisations are working on creating shapes to reduce sonic booms. Stretching the nose to break the bow shock into a series of weaker shockwaves is particularly effective. This lowers and spreads that initial pressure peak and softens the first bang of the sonic boom.

Their X designation indicates their research mission status within the US system of aircraft naming.

This all dates back to Chuck Yeager's sound-barrier-breaking craft, the X-1, a rocket engine–powered aircraft, designed and built in 1945, that achieved a speed of nearly 1,000 miles per hour (1,600 kmh) in 1948.

The team hopes to reduce the sound of the sonic boom to a quiet thud, similar to the sound of thunder rumbling in the distance or a neighbour closing their door. This graphic compares the F18 sonic boom to the sonic 'thump' that Nasa aims to achieve in the future

Nasa's vision for the X-59 was approved In the latest proposed US budget released by the Office Of Management And Budget In Washington, DC, in February.

The space agency was awarded $19.9 billion (£14.3bn) for the next year, $500 million (£360m) more than the previous year.

It is not known what proportion of this has been allocated for the supersonic aircraft project.

QueSST will be used as a test bed for technologies that could make their way into commercial planes.

Nasa is hoping to see the first flight tests take place in 2022, with public reaction tests to the final aircraft scheduled for the following year.

====== 1516 ========

TESLA TO DELIVER NEW MODEL 3 ORDERS BY YEAR END

Tesla Inc Chief Executive Elon Musk said on Thursday that Model 3s ordered in the United States by the end of this month will be delivered by Dec. 31, as the electric carmaker tries to take advantage of tax breaks.

'Tesla just acquired trucking capacity to ensure Model 3 can be delivered in U.S. by Dec 31 if ordered by Nov 30,' Musk tweeted.

Tesla did not immediately respond to a request for more details about the acquisition.

Scroll down for video

Tesla introduced a new $45,000 version of its Model 3 sedan on its website last month, launching the car as U.S. tax breaks for Tesla cars are about to decrease

Tesla had earlier said that orders placed by Oct.15 will be delivered by the end of the year.

The electric carmaker has until the end of the year to hand out tax credits of $7,500 to customers.

The credits are available for six months after an automaker hits 200,000 delivery mark, which Tesla hit in July.

The incentives then reduce by 50 percent every six months until it phases out.

Last month, Tesla introduced a new $45,000 version of its Model 3 sedan on its website, launching the car as U.S. tax breaks for Tesla cars are about to decrease.

According to the website, the rear-wheel-drive model has a 'mid range' battery, a range of 260 miles, 50 miles less than the long-range battery that the more expensive Model 3 is equipped with.

The new version has a delivery period of six to 10 weeks, according to the website, which would make customers eligible for the current $7,500 U.S. tax credit if they take delivery by the end of the year.

'Costs $35k after federal & state tax rebates in California, but true cost of ownership is closer to $31k after gas savings,' Musk tweeted.

WHAT IS TESLA'S MODEL 3 ELECTRIC CAR? Tesla's Model 3 is the company's first lower-cost, high-volume car. The electric sedan is crucial to Tesla's goal of becoming a profitable, mainstream automaker. The five-seat sedan will travel 215 miles (133 kilometres) on a single charge. It will be sporty, accelerating from zero to 60mph (0-100kph) in under six seconds. The Model 3 is Tesla's first lower-cost, high-volume car. The first models of the $35,000 (£27,000) electric vehicle began production in July 2017 The car has no traditional dashboard, but instead a computer monitor in the center of the car which shows details about the car and its route. It will be controlled via a touchscreen and each side of the steering wheel will have a single scroll button. The first models of the $35,000 (£27,000) electric vehicle began production in July 2017. But the company has suffered production woes ever since, frequently missing the targets it set itself when the vehicle was announced in 2016.

Although Tesla has promised a base-level version of the Model 3 priced at $35,000, so far it has only produced higher-cost versions starting at about $49,000.

Tesla has said that it would not manufacture the base-level version of the Model 3 this year.

Adding the mid-priced version of the Model 3 appears to be a strategic way to lure possible buyers who had been waiting for the lower-priced version.

====== 1517 ========

GOOGLE'S THANKSGIVING TRAFFIC REPORT CAN TELL YOU WHEN TO AVOID THE ROADS AND SKIP THE LONG LINES

Traveling during the holidays can be a nightmare.

But luckily, Google Maps has put its data smarts to work and served up a report that shows when there's most likely to be traffic before and after Thanksgiving.

On top of that, the report also breaks down when to avoid the crowds at your local grocery store, mall, liquor store or movie theater during the holiday.

Scroll down for video

Google Maps has put its data smarts to work and served up a report that shows when there's most likely to be traffic and crowds at the store before and after Thanksgiving

WHEN SHOULD YOU AVOID THE ROADS ON THANKSGIVING? The roads are busiest between 3pm and 4pm on Wednesday, heading into the nighttime. There's less traffic early Wednesday and Thursday morning, however. Heading home, people should avoid the roads on Friday and Saturday afternoon and opt to leave Friday morning instead.

Google Maps analyzed data from 2017's holiday season to determine when people should travel to avoid traffic.

'You may be used to your area’s traffic patterns during a typical week, but holiday travelers move on a different schedule,' Google wrote in a blog post.

'With typical traffic levels as a baseline, here’s when you can expect traffic to be heavier than normal in your area.'

Unsurprisingly, between 3pm and 4pm (ET) on Wednesday is the worst time to travel.

The night before Thanksgiving, in general, is a bad time to be on the roads, according to Google Maps data.

However, traffic tends to clear up early Thanksgiving morning.

People tend to get back on the road in droves on Friday or Saturday afternoon, though, so that may be a time to steer clear of traveling.

Unsurprisingly, between 3pm and 4pm (ET) on Wednesday is the worst time to travel. Traffic tends to clear up early Thanksgiving morning and then picks up again on Friday and Saturday

Traffic also remains somewhat heavy on Sunday as people head back home.

Google recommends users who are heading back to New York after the holiday to do so early Friday morning.

The report also details when people can expect long lines to form at their favorite local hotspot.

Google says the busiest time at the bakery is at noon on Wednesday, as people prepare their menus for Thanksgiving day.

Similarly, grocery stores are just as packed in the afternoon and early evening on Wednesday.

Trips to the liquor store also peak in the afternoon and evening on Wednesday as people pick up last minute bottles of alcohol before the holiday.

The report also breaks down when to avoid the crowds at your local grocery store, mall, liquor store or movie theater during the holiday. Bakeries are busiest on Wednesday at noon

Just as unsurprisingly, shopping centers are packed the afternoon before Thanksgiving and on Black Friday, the king of all shopping days.

The busiest time at the mall by far is around noon, while traffic tapers off toward midnight.

Movie theaters are also expected to be crowded on Black Friday, as some folks opt to see a film instead of head to the mall.

Among other interested data gleaned from the report, Google also found that the most popular searches on Wednesday and Thanksgiving Day are outlet malls and tree farms.

On Black Friday, the most popular search is 'scenic overlook,' followed by 'place of worship,' suggesting people are getting outdoors or heading to church instead of the shopping mall.

====== 1518 ========

FACEBOOK SAYS IT'S GETTING BETTER AT REMOVING HATE SPEECH AS IT DELETES 1.5 BILLION FAKE ACCOUNTS

Facebook is making progress on detecting hate speech, graphic violence and other violations of its rules, even before users see and report them.

During the April-to-September period, Facebook doubled the amount of hate speech it detected proactively, compared with the previous six months.

The findings were spelled out Thursday in Facebook's second report on enforcing community standards.

The report comes a day after a bombshell report from the New York Times which detailed Facebook's efforts to downplay and avert blame over their mishandling of fake news and Russian propaganda on the platform.

Scroll down for video

Facebook says it is making progress on deleting hate speech, graphic violence and other violations of its rules, including detecting them before they are seen by users

In its latest content removal report, Facebook said it disabled over 1.5 billion fake accounts, compared to 1.3 billion accounts over the previous six-month period.

Of those accounts, Facebook said most of the fake accounts it found were financially motivated, rather than aimed at misinformation.

It said that 99.6 percent of fake accounts were proactively identified and removed from the platform before users saw them.

Fake accounts still comprise 3 percent to 4 percent of monthly active users reported in Facebook's third-quarter earnings.

Facebook said it removed 5.4 million pieces of hate speech during the six-month period, compared to 4.1 million pieces between October and March.

Roughly 23 million pieces of violent and graphic content were scrubbed from the site, up from 4.6 million during the previous six-month period.

In its latest content removal report, Facebook said it disabled over 1.5 billion fake accounts, compared to 1.3 billion accounts over the previous six-month period

'We’re not only getting better at finding bad content, we’re also taking more of it down,' Guy Rosen, Facebook's vice president of product management, said in a statement.

'This included removing content, putting a warning screen over it, disabling the offending account and/or escalating content to law enforcement.'

Facebook introduced two new categories to its report dealing with bullying and harassment and child nudity and sexual exploitation of children.

The firm took down 2.1 million pieces of content around bullying and harassment, while it removed 8.7 million pieces of content dealing with child nudity and sexual exploitation of children.

Of those 2.1 million posts, Facebook's content moderation technology only spotted 15 percent of them - the rest were flagged by users.

Facebook said it removed 5.4 million pieces of hate speech during the six-month period, compared to 4.1 million pieces between October and March

'Overall, we know we have a lot more work to do when it comes to preventing abuse on Facebook,' Rosen said.

'Machine learning and artificial intelligence will continue to help us detect and remove bad content.'

While it is publishing how many violations it is catching, the company said it can't always reliably measure how prevalent these things are on Facebook overall.

For instance, while Facebook took action on 2 million instances of bullying in the July-September period, this does not mean there were only 2 million instances of bullying during this time.

CEO Mark Zuckerberg came under severe scrutiny after it emerged that personal data of 87 million Facebook users had been sold to consulting firm Cambridge Analytica

Facebook continues to grapple with challenge after challenge, ranging from fake news to Facebook's role in elections interference, hate speech and incitement to violence in the U.S., Myanmar, India and elsewhere.

Coinciding with this, the Times story described Facebook's strategy for dealing with these issues as 'delay, deny and deflect.'

Facebook said Thursday it has cut times with a Washington public relations firm, Definers, which the Times said Facebook hired to discredit opponents.

CEO Mark Zuckerberg said during a call with reporters that he learned about the company's relationship with Definers only when he read the Times report.

====== 1519 ========

HIGH-TECH CARPETS INSPIRED BY POLAR BEAR FUR COULD LEAD TO NEW STICKY AND INSULATING SURFACES

High-tech carpets inspired by polar bear fur and gecko feet could lead to new sticky or insulating surfaces.

Engineers have developed a cutting edge way to make arrays of nano-fibres inspired by materials found in nature.

They could bring us coatings that are sticky, repellent, insulating or even light emitting.

High-tech carpets inspired by polar bear fur and gecko feet could lead to new sticky or insulating surfaces. Engineers have developed a cutting edge way to make arrays of nano-fibres inspired by materials found in nature (stock image)

Study senior author Joerg Lahann, Professor of chemical engineering at the University of Michigan, said: 'This is so removed from anything I've ever seen that I would have thought it was impossible.'

Researchers discovered almost by chance a new method for making arrays of fibres that are hundreds of times thinner than a human hair.

Polar bear hairs are structured to let light in while keeping heat from escaping. Water-repelling lotus leaves are coated with arrays of microscopic waxy tubules.

And the nanoscale hairs on the bottoms of gravity-defying gecko feet get so close to other surfaces that atomic forces of attraction come into play.

Researchers looking to mimic such 'superpowers' and more have needed a way to create the minuscule arrays that do the work.

Prof Lahann said: 'Fundamentally, this is a completely different way of making nano-fibre arrays.'

The researchers have shown that their nano-fibres repelled water just like lotus leaves.

They grew straight and curved fibres and tested how they stuck together like Velcro -finding that clockwise and counterclockwise twisted fibres knitted together more tightly than two arrays of straight fibres.

They also experimented with optical properties, making a material that glowed.

The team believe it will be possible to make a structure that works like polar bear fur, with individual fibres structured to channel light.

But molecular carpets weren't the original plan.

The team believe it will be possible to make a structure that works like polar bear fur, with individual fibres structured to channel light to keep them warm (stock image)

Prof Lahann's group was working with that of Nicholas Abbott, at the time a Professor of chemical engineering at University of Wisconsin-Madison, to put thin films of chain-like molecules, called polymers, on top of liquid crystals.

Liquid crystals are best known for their use in displays such as televisions and computer screens.

They were trying to make sensors that could detect single molecules.

Prof Lahann provided the expertise in producing thin films while Prof Abbott led the design and production of the liquid crystals.

In typical experiments, Prof Lahann's group evaporates single links in the chain and coaxes them to condense onto surfaces.

But the thin polymer films sometimes didn't materialise as expected.

Prof Abbott said: 'The discovery reinforces my view that the best advances in science and engineering occur when things don't go as planned.

'You just have to be alert and view failed experiments as opportunities.'

Instead of coating the top of the liquid crystal, the links slipped into the fluid and connected with each other on the glass slide. The liquid crystal then guided the shapes of the nanofibers growing up from the bottom, creating nanoscale carpets.

Prof Abbott said: 'A liquid crystal is a relatively disordered fluid, yet it can template the formation of nanofibers with remarkably well-defined lengths and diameters.'

And they didn't only make straight strands. Depending on the liquid crystal, they could generate curved fibres, like microscopic bananas or staircases.

Prof Lahann added: 'We have a lot of control over the chemistry, the type of fibres, the architecture of the fibres and how we deposit them.

'This really adds a lot of complexity to the way we can engineer surfaces now; not just with thin two-dimensional films but in three dimensions.'

The findings were published in the journal Science.

====== 1520 ========

SCIENTISTS SPOT GRAVITATIONAL WAVES CAUSED BY HYPER-MASSIVE NEUTRON STAR

One of six gravitational wave observations made after the phenomenon was first detected in 2016 was the result of a massive collision between ultra-dense neutron stars, researchers have found.

Neutron stars are the remnants of stars that have exploded in supernovae.

Instead of merging into a black hole as expected, researchers now say the event known as GW170817 gave rise to one hyper-massive neutron star in the first observation of its kind.

Scroll down for video

One of six gravitational wave observations made after the phenomenon was first detected in 2016 was the result of a massive collision between ultra-dense neutron stars, researchers have found. Artist's impression of gravitational waves

The international team of researchers detailed the findings in a new paper published to the journal Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society: Letters.

Researchers analyzed data from the LIGO and Virgo gravitational wave detector in Italy and detected a ‘chirp’ that lasted about 5 seconds.

This was picked up by both the H1 and L1 detectors in LIGO, despite a separation of over 3,000 kilometers.

According to the team, it began somewhere between the initial burst of the gravitational waves, and the gamma rays that followed.

Researchers analyzed data from the LIGO and Virgo gravitational wave detector in Italy. The graph above shows data from the LIGO gravitational wave observatory, plotting frequency against time

The graph shows gamma-ray counts against time, showing the gap between the wave peak and burst

The frequency dropped from below 1 KHz to 49Hz.

Based on the measurements, the researchers say the object did not merge to become a black hole, as was thought initially after the observation.

Instead, the two objects likely became a single, much larger neutron star.

The burst of gravitational waves also came with the emission of gamma rays, X-rays, ultraviolet, visible light, infrared, and radio waves, allowing scientists to pinpoint the location and nature of the source.

WHAT ARE GRAVITATIONAL WAVES? Scientists view the the universe as being made up of a 'fabric of space-time'. This corresponds to Einstein's General Theory of Relativity, published in 1916. Objects in the universe bend this fabric, and more massive objects bend it more. Gravitational waves are considered ripples in this fabric. Gravitational waves are considered ripples in the fabric of spacetime. They can be produced, for instance, when black holes orbit each other or by the merging of galaxies They can be produced, for instance, when black holes orbit each other or by the merging of galaxies. Gravitational waves are also thought to have been produced during the Big Bang. Scientists first detected the shudders in space-time in 2016 and the discovery was hailed the 'biggest scientific breakthrough of the century'. Experts say gravitational waves open a 'new door' for observing the universe and gaining knowledge about enigmatic objects like black holes and neutron stars.

The researchers say the new analysis has finally allowed them to confirm the origin of objects with a mass equalling that of neutron star binary pairs.

‘We’re still very much in the pioneering era of gravitational wave astronomy,’ said Maurice van Putten of Sejong University in South Korea.

‘So it pays to look at data in detail. For us this really paid off, and we’ve been able to confirm that two neutron stars merged to form a larger one.’

====== 1521 ========

U.S. RETAILERS COULD SOON ADOPT FACIAL RECOGNITION TECH TO STOP THIEVES

Facial recognition has been widely adopted at airports, stadiums, traffic intersections and even some schools.

Now, experts say retail is the next industry to become a target of the technology, pointing to a growing number of suppliers and companies willing to put it in their stores.

U.S. retailers are expected to begin using facial recognition to stop shoplifters or spot criminals, but many are eyeing it for much broader uses - including customer tracking or loyalty programs, according to Biometric Update.

Scroll down for video

Experts say retail is the next industry to become a target of the technology, pointing to a growing number of suppliers and companies willing to put it in their stores

The move has already attracted scrutiny from privacy advocates who fear shoppers may be unaware that retailers are keeping track of their faces.

The makers of this facial recognition technology view it differently, however, believing that it would lead to a better consumer experience.

'There is another step though that exists which has more to do with consumer loyalty, and consumer experience, that is not quite as expensive an endeavor,' Peter Trepp, CEO of facial recognition software maker FaceFirst, told Biometric Update.

'...I think there are lots of folks looking at ways of doing that in a friendly opt-in environment, where privacy is not the cornerstone issue, and consumers are opting into systems that allow them to engage with them.'

Some have discussed establishing loyalty programs for users who opt-in to be a part of a retailers facial recognition system.

People who opt-in might receive discounts on items they often purchase or any other number of loyalty rewards.

Some retailers have discussed establishing loyalty programs for users who opt-in to be a part of a retailers facial recognition system. Users would get discounts for opting in

Others have said retailers could use the data gleaned from facial recognition systems for targeted marketing or tracking consumers whereabouts outside the store

As a result, consumers might be more willing to trust the technology and companies would gain valuable data for facial recognition systems.

'Once companies are using this type of technology for crime prevention purposes, there’s no reason why they should not be using it for upselling their customers,' Arturo Falck, CEO of Whoo.ai, which has built an app that enables users to find out which companies have their biometric information.

'...It is a way for the businesses to turn what could potentially be bad public relations into engagement opportunities.'

Others have said retailers could use the data gleaned from facial recognition systems for targeted marketing or tracking consumers whereabouts outside the store.

There aren't any known cases of retailers doing this just yet, but Home Depot has tested using security footage to see what consumers are browsing, according to New York Magazine.

What's more, as an increasing number of retailers move toward cashier-less store models, such as Amazon's Go stores, the likelihood has grown that they'll depend on facial recognition for security and, possibly, other consumer experience-oriented uses.

As stores look into adopting the technology, it's likely to face some regulatory hurdles.

Last month, a New York City Councilman put forth a bill that would require businesses to inform the public if they're using facial recognition technology, how long they store the data and who they're sharing it with, New York Magazine said.

It comes after Madison Square Garden began using the technology to identify potential criminals.

====== 1522 ========

FACEBOOK LAUNCHES UNSEND FEATURE FOR MESSENGER (EVEN THOUGH MARK ZUCKERBERG HAS HAD IT FOR MONTHS)

Facebook's Unsend feature has finally landed on the Messenger app - for some users.

The social network giant has started rolling out an 'Unsend' feature for Messenger that lets users delete messages up to 10 minutes after they're sent.

For now, the feature is limited to iOS and Android users in Poland, Bolivia, Colombia and Lithuania, but it's expected to launch in other markets soon, according to TechCrunch.

The launch comes seven months after it was reported that Facebook was deleting messages already sent by CEO Mark Zuckerberg to other users.

Scroll down for video

Facebook's Unsend feature has finally landed on the Messenger app - for some users. The 'Unsend' feature for Messenger lets users delete messages up to 10 minutes after they're sent

By setting the unsend cutoff at 10 minutes, it means you can't delete messages that were sent long ago in a conversation.

But it does let you erase any messages that may have typos, were sent to the wrong person or that you may regret after-the-fact.

When a message is deleted, it'll show a marker in the chat telling other users that it's been removed.

It also isn't limited to texts - users can also remove photos, videos, links and other kinds of content.

To use the feature, tap and hold on a message you sent, then select 'Remove.'

From there, users will have the option to 'Remove for You' or 'Remove for Everyone.' Doing the former will only remove it from your view, while selecting the latter will delete the message from the chat entirely.

Users can access the feature by tapping and holding down on a message in a conversation. A 'tombstone,' or a line of text confirming the message was deleted, will then appear in the chat

After selecting 'Remove for Everyone,' users will get a warning that says: 'You'll permanently remove this message for all chat members. They can see that you removed a message and still report it.'

A 'tombstone,' or a line of text confirming the message was deleted, will then appear in the chat.

Interestingly, Facebook has also included some extra protections in the feature to prevent it from being abused by cyberbullies.

Users will see a warning in Messenger when they try to remove a message from the chat

Even if a message is deleted, Facebook will keep unsent messages for a short period of time to prevent cyberbullies from trying to cover their tracks.

Facebook says they decided to roll out an Unsend feature because it felt there were a lot of cases where users might need one.

'The pros are that users want to be in control...and if you make a mistake you can correct it,' Stan Chudnovsky, Facebook's head of Messenger, told TechCrunch.

'There are a lot of legitimate use cases out there that we wanted to enable.'

The firm isn't the first to introduce an Unsend tool - Facebook-owned WhatsApp has long had this capability, along with with Instagram and Google's Gmail.

Facebook is also exploring more editing features beyond the Unsend tool in Messenger.

The firm is considering adding a feature that would let users set an expiration date for unencrypted messages or conversation threads.

'It's one of those things that feels very simple on the surface,' Chudnovsky told TechCrunch.

'And it would be very easy if the servers were built one way or another from the very beginning.

'But it’s one of those things philosophically and technologically that once you get to the scale of 1.3 billion people using it, changing from one model to another is way more complicated,' he added.

Facebook talked of releasing an Unsend feature after its CEO Mark Zuckerberg got caught deleting messages. Three sources said messages from him disappeared from their inbox

Other apps like WhatsApp, Signal and Discord already use end-to-end encrypted messaging.

Facebook began feeling the pressure to release an Unsend feature after its CEO got caught deleting messages.

Three sources claimed old Facebook messages from Zuckerberg had disappeared from their inbox.

The recipients were not notified - raising concerns about what the Facebook CEO could be hiding.

Facebook claims the change was made after the 2014 Sony Pictures hack, when a mass data breach at the movie studio resulted in embarrassing email histories being leaked.

However, the lack of disclosure angered some users, along with the absence of a similar tool to recall messages for normal users.

The fact the the company is prepared to make exceptions makes a mockery of its statement that it wants to 'make the world more open and transparent', experts said at the time.

====== 1523 ========

ONE OF INSTAGRAM'S 13 ORIGINAL EMPLOYEES DELETES HER ACCOUNT

One of Instagram's original employees has abandoned the now Facebook-owned app.

Bailey Richardson started at Instagram in 2012 when Mark Zuckerberg's firm purchased the emerging app for $1billion (£780m).

She posted on Instagram that 'the time has come for me to delete my Instagram' and said the app has lost its unique appeal and it is now 'a drug that doesn't get us high anymore'.

Scroll down for video

Bailey Richardson started at Instagram in 2012 when Mark Zuckerberg's firm bought the budding app for $1 billion. She posted on Instagram that 'the time has come for me to delete my Instagram' and said the app has lost its unique appeal (stock)

'In the early days, you felt your post was seen by people who cared about you and that you cared about,' Ms Richardson added.

Her decision to leave the platform for good came just one day after the original co-founders of Instagram, Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger, left the company.

The two men became overnight multi-millionaires when Facebook acquired Instagram in 2012, with Krieger going on to wed Kaitlyn Trigger in 2015 and Systrom marrying Nicole Schuetz in 2016.

Systrom, 34, is now worth $1.4 billion (£1.1bn), while the 32-year-old Krieger's wealth is estimated at about $500 million (£390m), according to Forbes.

She posted on Instagram: 'The time has come for me to delete my Instagram. Thanks for all the kindnesses over the years.'

She said that the app has lost its integrity and is now designed to soaking up users' time and and attention at the cost of their well-being.

Four others of the original Instagram staffers have echoed similar sentiments, saying the firm's dogma of intimacy, artistry and discovery has been abandoned after its astronomical rise to the forefront of public attention.

Her decision to leave the platform for good came just one day after the original co-founders of Instagram, Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger, left the company. Ms Richardson said it is now a drug that doesn't get us high anymore (stock)

In its wake has emerged a corporate behemoth that is fuelled by a shallow celebrity-driven marketplace.

Ian Spalter, Instagram's head of design, said the experience for users Instagram is completely subjective.

'We're not in the game to have you leave Instagram feeling worse off than when you went in,' he said in an interview.

Instagram hit over a billion users this year but is facing a user exodus as people shun social media and continue to resent being absorbed by social media.

====== 1524 ========

SCIENTISTS REVEAL HOW WOMBATS PRODUCE CUBE-SHAPED FAECES

Scientists have finally worked out why wombats produce cube-shaped faeces.

They found that the last section of the chubby marsupials' intestine does not stretch evenly which distorts their faeces into 2cm (0.8 inch)-wide cubes.

These creatures - which are the only known species capable of producing cubes organically - pile their faeces to mark their home ranges and communicate with one another through scent.

The higher and more prominently placed the pile of faeces, the more chance other wombats will engage in communication.

Scroll down for video

Scientists have finally worked out why wombats produce cube-shaped faeces (pictured). They found that the last section of the chubby marsupials' intestine does not stretch evenly which distorts their faeces into 2cm (0.8 inch)-wide cubes

HOW DO WOMBATS PRODUCE CUBE-SHAPED FAECES? Wombats are the are the only known species capable of producing cubes organically. This strange phenomenon was explored by researchers from Georgia Institute of Technology. They studied the digestive tracts of wombats that had been euthanized following motor vehicle collisions in Tasmania, Australia. Near the end of the intestine, they found that faeces changed from liquid-like states to solid states made up of small, separated cubes. This last section is stiff in different places (the stiff regions form flat faces while the stretcher parts form corners) which deforms the faeces. This distorts their faeces into 2cm (0.8 inch)-wide cubes. Researchers believe this natural engineering could inspire future soft tissue manufacturing and transportation methods.

Every evening a wombat will drop 80 to 100 dry, cube-like droppings around its territory in prominent places like next to burrows or on logs.

Wombats, who are highly territorial, also communicate their levels of fertility through the droppings.

This means it is important that their droppings do not roll away, and cube-shaped faeces solves this problem.

Patricia Yang, a postdoctoral fellow in mechanical engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology looked at how soft tissue structures might explain their oddly shaped stool.

'The first thing that drove me to this is that I have never seen anything this weird in biology. That was a mystery,' said Dr Yang.

'I didn't even believe it was true at the beginning. I Googled it and saw a lot about cube-shaped wombat poop, but I was sceptical.'

Her team studied the digestive tracts of wombats that had been euthanized following motor vehicle collisions in Tasmania, Australia.

Near the end of the intestine, they found that faeces changed from liquid-like states to solid states made up of small, separated cubes.

This last section is stiff in different places (the stiff regions form flat faces while the stretcher parts form corners) which deforms the faeces.

Researchers believe these stiff and stretchy areas may only be visible when the intestine is inflated.

Every evening a wombat will drop 80 to 100 dry, cube-like droppings around its territory. Wombats, who are highly territorial, also communicate their levels of fertility through the droppings

A wombat's food travels through its system at a very slow pace, typically 14 to 18 days. The long digestive process allows its body to adsorb the most amount of nutrients and water from the food

A wombat's food travels through its system at a very slow pace, typically 14 to 18 days.

The long digestive process allows its body to adsorb the most amount of nutrients and water from the food.

She believes this natural engineering could inspire future soft tissue manufacturing and transportation methods.

'We currently have only two methods to manufacture cubes: We mold it, or we cut it. Now we have this third method,' Dr Yang said.

'It would be a cool method to apply to the manufacturing process - how to make a cube with soft tissue instead of just molding it.'

Dr Yang and her colleagues will present their findings at the American Physical Society's Division of Fluid Dynamics 71st Annual Meeting in Atlanta, Georgia, this week.

Just a few months ago, researchers found that wombats chase each other around and take turns biting the other's bottom when they are keen to mate (mother pictured with baby)

Wombats chase each other around and take turns biting the other's bottom when they are keen to mate, scientists found

Just a few months ago, researchers found that wombats chase each other around and take turns biting the other's bottom when they are keen to mate.

The sex lives of vulnerable southern hairy-nosed wombats were revealed for the first time in a study aimed at making more babies in captivity.

University of Queensland researchers discovered female wombats were also more active and urinated less when they were in heat.

Associate Professor Stephen Johnston said the females would bite males on their rumps, often tearing off clumps of fur, as a come-on.

Males would then chase the females around in a figure-eight pattern and return the love bites before they started the mating ritual.

The researchers also found a way to map the reproductive cycle of the female wombat by measuring hormone levels in their urine.

====== 1525 ========

MISAFES SMARTWATCHES THAT LET PARENTS TRACK THEIR CHILDREN ARE 'EASY TO HACK' AND SHOULD BE BINNED

Smartwatches used by many parents to keep track of their children could be hacked by paedophiles, security experts warned yesterday.

The inexpensive watches - called MiSafes Kids Watch Plus - keeps track of a child’s location by using GPS.

Parents can keep tabs on their children on a smartphone app which shows them where they are - and which also act as a phone.

But security researchers say that they could put children more at risk as they can easily be hacked to reveal a child’s location to a stranger and to eavesdrop on any conversations they might have.

Scroll down for video

Smartwatches used by many parents to keep track of their children could be hacked by paedophiles, security experts warned yesterday. The inexpensive watches - called MiSafes Kids Watch Plus - keeps track of a child’s location by using GPS

Simple techniques security researchers and the BBC claimed found it straightforward to locate the child, their photo, name, gender and date of birth as well as height and weight. It also gave access to parents’ phone numbers assigned to the watch.

Ken Munro and Alan Monie, researchers for security firm Pen Test Partners in Buckingham learned of the product’s existence when a friend bought one for his son earlier this year.

Mr Munro told the BBC that using easily available software, a paedophile could pretend to be the child’s parents using online ‘prank call’ apps.

He said: ‘Once a hacker has the parent’s number, they could spoof a call to appear to come from it and the child would now think it’s their mum or dad dialling’.

‘So they could leave a voice message or speak to the child to convince them to leave their house and go to a convenient location.’

The watch uses a global positioning system (GPS) sensor and a 2G mobile data connection to let parents see where their child is, via a smartphone app.

The watches sell for around £9 ($12) on online marketplaces such as Amazon.

This software could be used to change the assigned ID number, which was all it took to get access to others’ accounts.

This made it possible to see personal information used to register the product, including: a photo of the child their name, gender and date of birth their height and weight the parents’ phone numbers the phone number assigned to the watch’s Sim card.

Using a different tool, Mr Munro said his team were able to see that about 14,000 MiSafes were still in active use.

Parents can keep tabs on their children on a smartphone app which shows them where they are - and which also act as a phone. But security researchers say that they could put children more at riskas they can easily be hacked to reveal a child’s location to a stranger

The Norwegian Consumer Council highlighted other cases of child-targeted smartwatches with security flaws last year.

It said the MiSafe products appeared to be ‘even more problematic’ than the examples it had flagged.

Gro Mette Moen, the watchdog’s acting director of digital services, told the BBC: ‘This is another example of unsecure products that should never have reached the market.

‘Our advice is to refrain from buying these smartwatches until the sellers can prove that their features and security standards are satisfactory.’

The watchmaker could not be reached for comment.

MiSafes previously made headlines in February when an Australian cyber-security company discovered several flaws with its Mi-Cam baby monitors.

SEC Consult said these meant hackers could spy on footage from owners’ homes and hijack accounts.

====== 1526 ========

TOO CLEVER FOR ITS OWN GOOD! GOOGLE DEEPMIND RESEARCHER REVEALS HOW AI CHEATS AT GAMES

A Google researcher has highlighted some of the hilarious ways that artificial intelligence (AI) software has 'cheated' to fulfil its purpose.

A programme designed not to lose at Tetris completed its task by simply pausing the game, while a self-driving car simulator asked to keep cars 'fast and safe' did so by making them spin on the spot.

An AI programmed to spot cancerous skin lesions learned to flag blemishes pictured next to a ruler, as they indicated humans were already concerned about them.

Victoria Krakovna, of Google's DeepMind AI lab, asked her colleagues for examples of misbehaving AI to highlight an often overlooked danger of the technology.

She said that the biggest threat posed by AI was not that they disobeyed us, but that they obeyed us in the wrong way.

A Google researcher has highlighted some of the hilarious ways that artificial intelligence (AI) software has 'cheated' at virtual games like chess to fulfil its purpose (stock image)

'I wanted to convey how difficult it is to specify objectives and incentives for AI systems, which is a large part of the AI safety problem,' she told the Times.

DeepMind is one of the world's leading AI research centres, developing intelligent software that can do everything from play a game of chess to painting landscapes.

But while programming an AI to play a board game is one thing, giving it common sense is another challenge entirely.

In one artificial life simulation designed to simulate evolution, researchers forgot to programme the energy cost of giving birth.

'One species evolved a sedentary lifestyle that consisted mostly of mating in order to produce new children which could be eaten (or used as mates to produce more edible children),' the programmers explained.

Google DeepMind is one of the world's leading AI research centres, developing intelligent software that can do everything from play a game of chess to painting landscapes (stock)

A noughts and crosses programme learned to make illegal moves until its opponent's memory filled up and crashed.

Dr Krakovna said that these were examples of what is known in economics as Goodhart's law: 'When a metric becomes a target, it ceases to be a good metric'.

She added that creating cleverer AI was not necessarily the solution, as they may simply find better loopholes.

'I often encounter the argument that issues like specification gaming arise because current AI systems are "too stupid", and if we build really intelligent AI systems, they would be 'smart enough' to understand human preferences and common sense.

'A superintelligent computer would likely be better at optimising its stated objective than present-day AI systems, so I would expect it to find even more clever loopholes in the specification,' she said.

====== 1527 ========

'NEXT GENERATION OF METAL BATTERIES' THAT COULD LAST TWICE AS LONG AND CHARGE FASTER ARE CREATED

Scientists have created the 'next generation of metal batteries' that last twice as long and charge faster than ever before.

Researchers created the battery using a three-dimensional, cross-linked polymer sponge.

Scientists say these new batteries could be much safer than standard lithium batteries which have 'fundamental issues' causing them to suddenly explode and burst into flames.

Scroll down for video

Scientists have created the 'next generation of metal batteries' that last twice as long and charge faster than ever before. Researchers created the battery using a three-dimensional, cross-linked polymer sponge (in purple)

'This project aims to develop the next generation of metal batteries,' said lead research Donghai Wang who is professor of mechanical engineering at Penn State University.

'Lithium metal has been tried in batteries for decades, but there are some fundamental issues that inhibit their advancement.'

In their simplest form, batteries are made of three components: a positive electrode, a negative electrode and an electrolyte.

When a battery is charging, lithium ions are extracted from the positive electrode and move through the crystal structure and electrolyte to the negative electrode, where they are stored.

The faster this process occurs, the faster the battery can be charged.

However, when lithium ion batteries are charged quickly - like they are in electric vehicles - they form needle-like formations.

These needles reduce the battery's life cycle and potentially cause safety issues — including fires or explosions.

'Our approach was to use a polymer on the interface of lithium metal,' Dr Wang said.

The material acts as a porous sponge that not only promotes ion transfer, but also inhibits deterioration.

Scientists say they could also be much safer than lithium batteries which have 'fundamental issues' causing them to suddenly explode and burst into flames (electric car, stock image)

HOW DOES CHARGING A BATTERY WORK? In their simplest form, batteries are made of three components: a positive electrode, a negative electrode and an electrolyte. When a battery is charging, lithium ions are extracted from the positive electrode and move through the crystal structure and electrolyte to the negative electrode, where they are stored. The faster this process occurs, the faster the battery can be charged. The material a battery is made of can severely restrict this rate. Graphite is a commonly used material for the negative electrode as it accepts positive ions well and has a high energy density. In the search for new electrode materials, researchers normally try to make the particles smaller. However, it’s difficult to make a practical battery with nanoparticles as it creates a lot of unwanted chemical reactions with the electrolyte, so the battery doesn’t last as long, plus it’s expensive to make.

'This allowed the metal plating to be free of dendrites, even at low temperatures and fast charge conditions,' he said.

The practical applications of this work could enable more powerful and stable metal battery technologies integral to everyday life, according to researchers.

'In an electric vehicle, it could increase the range of a drive before needing a charge by hundreds of miles,' Dr Wang said.

'It could also give smartphones a longer battery life.'

'We want to push these technologies forward. With this work, I'm positive we can double the life cycle of these lithium metal batteries.'

====== 1528 ========

ONE MILLION CASES OF FLY-TIPPING WERE REPORTED IN THE UK LAST YEAR

There were nearly one million cases of fly-tipping in the UK last year, shocking new figures reveal.

The waste dumping crisis - with two-thirds involving household waste - comes despite councils issuing record numbers of fines - up 43 per cent from 1,571 in 2016-17 to 2,243 in 2017/18.

But the measures are barely denting the illegal disposal of rubbish, the Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA) study shows.

Scroll down for video

There were nearly one million cases of fly-tipping last year, shocking new figures reveal. The waste dumping crisis - with two-thirds involving household waste - comes despite councils issuing record numbers of fines - up 43 per cent from 1,571 in 2016-17 to 2,243 (stock)

Local authorities reported 998,000 fly-tipping incidents, a slight decrease of one per cent from 1,011,000 reported in 2016/17.

But there were 14,000 cases involving ‘significant [or] multi loads’ of waste in 2017/18, up 40 per cent from 10,000 the previous year.

The increase was blamed on criminal waste collectors who charge households to take away rubbish and then dump it illegally.

Dealing with waste crime cost the UK economy between £1billion and £600million last year but criminals are operating with impunity, the report warns.

As well as fly-tipping, waste crime included illegal burning, operation of illegal dumps and illegal waste export.

A separate report commissioned by the government has recommended creating a new crime-busting force that will target waste criminals.

It also recommends a new system whereby large loads of waste are accompanied by electronic tags at all stages of disposal, to ensure they are not being illegally dumped.

Dealing with waste has been dubbed the ‘new narcotics’ by the head of the Environment Agency, Sir James Bevan, as it has become a lucrative are for criminals.

The report, the Serious and Organised Waste Crime Review, was chaired by Lizzie Noel who recommends that all major waste shipments are tracked electronically.

Local authorities reported 998,000 fly-tipping incidents, a slight decrease of one1 per cent from 1,011,000 reported in 2016/17. But there were 14,000 cases involving ‘significant [or] multi loads’ of waste in 2017/18, up 40 per cent from 10,000 the previous year (stock)

She writes that a beefed-up body must take over waste crime prosecutions.

She writes: ‘Our intention must be to give the criminals responsible real cause to fear the consequences of their actions. Today that is not the case.’

Defra said in a statement: ‘Today’s figures show our tough actions to crack down on fly-tippers are delivering results, with no increase in the number of incidents for the first time in five years.

‘Councils are using powers to hand out on-the-spot fines to fly-tippers to good effect, and we have made it easier for vehicles suspected of being used for fly-tipping to be stopped, searched and seized.

‘New fixed penalty notices for householders who pass their waste to a fly-tipper also come into force shortly, as we continue our efforts to crack down on those who blight our landscapes.'

====== 1529 ========

AI CAN CREATE FAKE FINGERPRINTS THAT ARE SO REALISTIC THEY TRICK SCANNERS

From unlocking smartphones to authorising payments, fingerprints are widely used to identify people.

However, a team of researchers have now managed to accurately copy real fingerprints and created fake ones called 'DeepMasterPrints'.

Researchers - who created the fake prints using a neural network - were able to mimic more than one in five fingerprints.

These new technological developments suggest fingerprint identification could become increasingly less secure.

Scroll down for video

From unlocking smartphones to authorising payments, fingerprints are widely used to identify people. However, a team of researchers have now managed to accurately copy real fingerprints and created fake ones called 'DeepMasterPrints' (pictured)

'MasterPrints are real or synthetic fingerprints that can fortuitously match with a large number of fingerprints', researchers, led by Philip Bontrager from New York University, wrote in the paper presented at a security conference in Los Angeles.

'In this work we generate complete image-level MasterPrints known as DeepMasterPrints, whose attack accuracy is found to be much superior than that of previous methods.'

The method, which is called Latent Variable Evolution, is created by training a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) on real fingerprint images.

GANs 'teach' an algorithm about a particular subject - in this case fingerprints - by feeding it massive amounts of information.

GANs consists of two neural networks that learn from looking at raw data.

One looks at the raw data (fingerprints) while the other generates fake images based on the data set.

Fingerprint systems do not generally read the entire fingerprint but just record whichever part of it touches the scanner first, writes the Guardian.

This means they're easier to fake than complete prints.

The GAN created multiple fake fingerprints that matched real ones enough to trick the scanner as well as the human eye.

Researchers found it was able to imitate more than one in five fingerprints when a bionic system should only have an error rate of one in a thousand.

Researchers - who created the fake prints using a neural network - were able to mimic more than one in five fingerprints (stock image)

'The underlying method is likely to have broad applications in fingerprint security as well as fingerprint synthesis', researchers wrote.

They hope their research will help develop more secure authentication systems in the future.

'Experiments with three different fingerprint matchers and two different datasets show that the method is robust and not dependent on the artefacts of any particular fingerprint matcher or dataset.

'This idea is surprisingly under-explored and could be useful in computational creativity research as well as other security domains', researchers found.

====== 1530 ========

ANIMALS THAT TAKE BIG RISKS ARE MORE LIKELY TO GO EXTINCT THAN THOSE THAT PLAY IT SAFE

British scientists used tiny trackers the size of a pound coin to monitor animals

Animals that live life in the fast lane and use risky strategies to find food are more likely to become extinct than those that take the safe option.

Herbivores and animals with an ample food source are more stable compared to predators and animals that live in harsh environments.

British scientists used tiny trackers the size of a pound coin to monitor and track cheetahs, condors, sheep and penguins for a six year study.

Scroll down for video

Herbivores and animals with ample food and are more secure compared to predators and animals living in inhospitable environments. Cheetahs, condors, sheep and penguins (pictured) were tracked for a study that lasted six years

Thumbnail-sized electronic tags (pictured) recorded the movement of condors, cheetahs, penguins and sheep in Argentina, South Africa and Northern Ireland over a six-year period

Thumbnail-sized electronic tags recorded the movement of condors, cheetahs, penguins and sheep in Argentina, South Africa and Northern Ireland over the course of the study.

These 'Daily Diary' tags recorded detailed information about the animal's movements.

It also tracked the temperature of the environment as well as light levels in order to gain an understanding of the animal's habitat on a day to day basis.

Results from the tags helped the researchers from Swansea University measure how successful the animal was at finding food, size of the meal, effort exerted and how much energy was saved.

Professor Rory Wilson of Swansea University, who led the study, said: 'We know that animal populations across the world are taking a hit, with the most charismatic animals like lions and cheetahs being among the worst affected, but up until now it hasn't been clear why.

Magellanic penguins live in Argentina and have an abundance of food, making it low-risk, while African penguins (pictured), whose population has been declining in southern Africa for decades, have very poor odds when it comes to finding food

Results from the tags helped the researchers from Swansea University to measure how successful the animal was at finding food, size of the food, effort needed to find the food and energy reserved for other activities (stock)

'Our study has revealed that animals that use a high-risk gambling strategy to find food, like lions and tigers, which have to search for long periods before they get lucky and find prey, are more likely to fail to accrue the energy they need to breed, compared to animals that adopt a low-risk gambling strategy, like herbivores such as zebras.'

Animals that adopt a high-risk approach to finding food risk the lives of their offspring and their survival often depends on their size, the researchers say.

Larger progeny are far more likely to survive than smaller individuals due to a build up of resources.

Animals that adopt a high-risk approach to finding food risk the lives o their offspring and their survival often depends on their size. Larger progeny are far more likely to survive than its smaller companions due to a build up of resources (stock)

Animals that live in the fast lane and use risky strategies to find food, such as the cheetah (pictured), are more likely to become extinct than those that take the safe option

Researches found that no young survived for more than a couple of days without food after being newly hatched or just born.

To study the discrepancy between survival rates depending on riskiness of eating techniques researchers compared two similar penguin species.

Magellanic penguins live in Argentina and have an abundance of food, making it low-risk, while African penguins, whose population has been declining in southern Africa for decades, have very poor odds when it comes to finding food.

'It appears that commercial fishing has changed the game rules for the worse for the African penguins,' said Professor Wilson.

'When animals are taking rare prey anyway, even small changes in the ecosystem stemming from human activities can be the straw that breaks the camel's back in terms of breeding success, and this seems to be the case for the African penguin, whose population is now just 1 per cent of what it was 100 years ago.'

The research was published in the journal Current Biology.

====== 1531 ========

KILLER WHALES SHARE PERSONALITY TRAITS WITH HUMANS AND CHIMPANZEES, SAY PSYCHOLOGISTS

Killer whales display personality traits similar to those of humans and chimpanzees such as playfulness, cheerfulness and affection, new research suggests.

Experts in Spain analysed the personalities of 24 captive killer whales, six of which were caught in the wild while the remainder were born in captivity.

Trainers and other staff who worked closely with the whales completed surveys ranking each animal on a list of 38 personality traits.

These included playfulness, independence, stubbornness, bravery, sensitivity and protectiveness.

Those traits were analysed and compared with previous studies of the same personality traits for chimpanzees and humans to make the finding.

Scroll down for video

Killer whales display personality traits similar to those of humans and chimpanzees, such as playfulness, cheerfulness and affection. Experts in Spain analysed the personalities of 24 captive killer whales to make the finding (stock image)

STUDY FINDINGS Researchers found that the personality traits of killer whales were similar to those of both humans and chimpanzees but more similar to chimpanzees. Killer whales were similar to chimpanzees and humans for the extraversion factor, for example on how playful, gregarious and sociable they are. Killer whales and chimpanzees also shared a combination of personality traits for conscientiousness - how constant, stubborn and protective they are. They also demonstrate agreeableness - how patient, peaceable and adverse to bullying they are, along with some personality traits relating to dominance.

'This is the first study to examine the personality traits of killer whales and how they relate to us and other primates,' said Yulán Úbeda, a doctoral student in psychology at the University of Girona in Spain who led the research.

'These similar personality traits may have developed because they were necessary to form complex social interactions in tightly knit groups that we see in killer whales, humans and other primates.'

The study used a common personality measure called the five-factor model, which assesses five personality dimensions - including extraversion, agreeableness, conscientiousness, dominance and carefulness.

The model, which was developed in the 1930s, describes personality traits using a combination of single adjectives or descriptive phrases.

Researchers found that the personality traits of killer whales were similar to those of both humans and chimpanzees but more similar to chimpanzees.

Killer whales were similar to chimpanzees and humans for the extraversion factor, for example on how playful, gregarious and sociable they are.

Killer whales and chimpanzees also shared a combination of personality traits for conscientiousness - how constant, stubborn and protective they are .

They also demonstrate agreeableness - how patient, peaceable and adverse to bullying they are, along with some personality traits relating to dominance.

The findings may suggest some evolutionary convergence where the personality traits of killer whales and primates are similar because of the advanced cognitive abilities required for complex social interactions.

Killer whales can live into their 90s in tightly knit pods that hunt together and share their food, displaying advanced communication skills and cooperation.

Those traits received international news coverage when a 20-year-old killer whale, known as J-35 or Tahlequah, began pushing her dead newborn calf last July off the coast of Vancouver Island.

With the help of other members of her pod, she kept the dead calf afloat for 17 days while swimming hundreds of miles, an exhausting effort that interfered with the pod's ability to hunt.

Experts found that the personality traits of killer whales were similar to those of both humans and chimpanzees, but more similar to chimpanzees. Killer whales were similar to chimpanzees and humans in terms of extraversion, for example on how playful they are (stock)

There is some debate among researchers about whether the mother whale's actions displayed grief over her loss.

Despite their name, killer whales actually are the largest member of the dolphin family.

Both killer whales and dolphins have been known to keep dead newborns afloat, but not for such a lengthy period.

Grief is a complex emotion that hasn't been observed in most animals, although some research points to mourning by some species that live in tight-knit groups, including chimpanzees, elephants and giraffes.

The current study didn't analyse any aspects of grief in killer whales, and it's difficult to know why killer whales carry dead offspring since killer whales can't communicate with humans, Ms Úbeda said.

'Some previous studies suggest that the mother's contact with the lifeless body could be important for the mother to make a psychological adjustment to the death of her offspring,' she said.

'In any case, those behaviours show how complex these animals are.'

HOW COMMON IS IT FOR KILLER WHALES TO HUNT DOLPHINS? Killer whales, also known as orcas and blackfish, are one of the top predators in the sea. They are apex predators that have been known to eat most animals, including large sharks. Highly intelligent and social creatures, they work as a pack to hunt and kill their prey. Killer whales are technically a species of dolphin but will hunt other types of dolphin for food. Orcas are considered the largest species of the dolphin family. They weigh up to 6 tons (5,443 kilograms) and grow to 23 to 32 feet (7 to 9.7 meters) - almost as long as a school bus. The predators' diet can vary depending on region but they have been known to eat anything from sea birds and squid to sharks and even moose. Dolphins do make up a portion of their diet, but footage of it is uncommon. Dolphins are normally faster swimmers than the larger killer whale, but the orcas will work as a pack to hunt. Operating in their pod, killer whales have been observed working in spaced out groups to isolate dolphins. Eventually, the dolphin becomes exhausted and runs out of energy. Once their prey is no longer able to outrun them, the killer whales rush in and charge the dolphin, hitting it or flipping it into the air in order to immobilise it before going in for the kill.

Previous research has shown that captivity can alter the personality of killer whales, increasing neuroticism and aggression.

Physical changes, such as dorsal fin collapse, also have been observed.

SeaWorld, which was involved in this study, has faced scrutiny over the cramped living conditions for its captive killer whales.

The current study didn't analyse the effects of captivity and was conducted with captive killer whales because it would be difficult to assess the personality traits of killer whales in the wild, Ms Úbeda said.

The personality traits that were observed in the small sample size of 24 captive killer whales could differ from the personality traits of killer whales in the wild, she said.

The full findings were published by the American Psychological Association in the Journal of Comparative Psychology.

====== 1532 ========

KILLER WHALES USE THE SONIC EQUIVALENT OF A FLASHLIGHT TO TARGET PREY HIDING HUNDREDS OF MILES AWAY

Killer whales use the sonic equivalent of a flashlight to target prey hundreds of miles away.

New research reveals how whales, dolphins and porpoises let out ultrasonic clicks in narrow beams to help them find food hiding in the murky depths.

Researchers said the sonar ability was honed over 32 million years of fierce evolutionary competition hunting deep and muddy water.

Scroll down for video

Killer whales use the sonic equivalent of a flashlight to target prey hundreds of miles away. New research reveals how whales, dolphins and porpoises let out ultrasonic clicks in narrow beams to help them find food hiding in the murky depths (stock image)

Their rapid 'flashlight' ability was a careful trade-off between their long-range foraging and making sense of complex surroundings, the study revealed.

Echolocation was so useful at extreme depths that male Sperm Whales' nose-like clickers grow to up 16ft (5m) long - a third of their body length.

Blue whales meanwhile can produce uni-directional sounds with a range of hundreds of miles.

The evolutionary step could explain why the toothed-mammals became the top predators in a wide range of habitats - from shallow freshwater rivers to the great ocean deeps.

Study leader Dr Frants Havmand Jensen, of the University of St Andrews Scottish Oceans Institute, said: 'This likely reflects an evolutionary pressure for long-range prey detection – it allowed larger whales to find prey further away, letting them hunt more efficiently in deep water.

'Focusing the sound energy in one direction also helps increase the range at which prey can be detected and thus could lead directly to higher foraging rates – provided the beam doesn't get too narrow!'

His team looked at how toothed whales' echolocation organs developed from when they were first evolved 32 million years ago.

They said the 'pinnacle' of the ability was the sperm whale whose nose - which is used to generate the sonic blasts - grew up to a third of its length in adult males.

The research also found whales of all sizes consistently narrow bio-sonar beam to inspect their surroundings.

They likened it using a narrow-beam flashlight to search for food in the dark.

Co-author Professor Peter Teglberg Madsen, of Aarhus University in Denmark, added: 'Normally, organs tend to grow proportionally to the rest of the body, but as echolocating whales became larger, their sound generating structures started taking up more and more of the body.'

The findings by teams from the University of St Andrews and the Aarhus Institute of Advanced Studies in Denmark were published in the journal Current Biology.

====== 1533 ========

WHY 536 AD WAS THE WORST YEAR TO BE ALIVE

Bubonic plague, famine, war and flu pandemics have made some periods of human history infamous for death and suffering but one year stands above the rest in terms of misery; 536AD.

According to research from a Harvard professor, it is a prime candidate for the unfortunate accolade of the worst year in the entirety of recorded history.

Europe, the Middle East, and parts of Asia were plunged into 18 months of solid darkness by a mysterious fog.

It caused snowfall in China, continental-scale crop failure, extreme drought, famine and disease throughout most of the northern hemisphere.

The bleak year was triggered by a cataclysmic Icelandic eruption, scientists say, and was an ominous omen for a bleak century of suffering and death.

Scroll down for video

According to research from a Harvard professor, the year 536AD is a prime candidate for the unfortunate accolade as the worst year in the entirety of human history. The bleak year kick-started the coldest decade for more than two millennia

Michael McCormick, a Harvard University archaeologist and medieval historian, told Science Magazine that the world did not show signs of recovery until 640AD.

'It was the beginning of one of the worst periods to be alive, if not the worst year,' Dr McCormick said.

The eerie fog created a drab world with darkness residing over the northern hemisphere for 18 months, with an unrelenting dusk persevering through day and night.

Effects on the climate were so severe that the Irish chronicles tell of 'a failure of bread from the years 536–539'.

Temperatures in the summer of 536 fell between 1.5°C (2.7°F) and 2.5°C (4.5°F), initiating the coldest decade in the past 2,300 years.

The international devastation triggered by the unidentified fog gave rise to the moniker 'The Dark Ages' which has been used to refer to this ominous time.

Causes of the event have remained a mystery to scientists since it was first discovered via tree ring analysis that the world's temperature dipped for several years at this point in time.

Dr McCormick and glaciologist Paul Mayewski at the Climate Change Institute of The University of Maine (UM) in Orono believe to have finally put the riddle to bed.

In their study, published in the journal Antiquity, the researchers reveal it was likely caused by a cataclysmic volcanic eruption in Iceland.

Analysis of ice cores - natural time capsules of Earth's geological past - also unearthed that two eruptions followed in 540 AD and 547 AD.

Incessant volcanic activity is believed to have produced millions of tonnes of ash which spread over vast swathes of the world. It caused snowfall in China, continental-scale crop failure and extreme drought and famine throughout most of the northern hemisphere (file photo)

WHAT HAPPENED IN THE YEAR 536AD? A cataclysmic volcanic eruption in Iceland created a huge cloud that resided over most of the northern hemisphere for 18 months. The eerie fog caused an unrelenting dusk persevering throughout day and night. Effects on the climate were so severe that the Irish chronicles tell of 'a failure of bread from the years 536–539'. Temperatures in the summer of 536 fell 1.5°C to 2.5°C, initiating the coldest decade in the past 2,300 years. This introduced a period of economic ruin which would steadfastly remain in place until a century later.

Incessant volcanic activity is believed to have produced millions of tonnes of ash which spread over vast swathes of the world.

The authors of the study write that this introduced a period of economic ruin which would steadfastly remain in place until a century later.

It was evidence of lead, and subsequently the smelting of silver, which rejuvenated the world's economy and finally abated the suffering triggered by the 536 AD eruption.

The ice core analysis revealed that sulphur, bismuth and tephra deposits precede every unusually cold summer and found one for this beleaguered year.

Spikes in the ice core for lead proved smelting was taking place to create silver and this coincides with the advent of coin minting which helped revive the economy, according to archaeologist Christopher Loveluck of the University of Nottingham.

A further peak in 660AD told the researchers that silver became the coinage of choice, likely due to a lack of gold, and

====== 1534 ========

'O-WIND TURBINE’ CAN HARNESS ENERGY IN CITIES AND TURN IT INTO ELECTRICITY

Inventors have developed a spinning wind turbine that generates energy from gusts blown from any direction to make electricity.

The 'O-Wind Turbine' has won two graduates the James Dyson Award 2018 for overcoming the limitations of traditional turbines, which work in one direction.

Their innovative design was inspired by NASA's Mars Tumbleweed Rover – an inflatable ball designed to autonomously bounce across the surface of Mars.

Scroll down for video

Nicolas Orellana, left and Yaseen Noorani. The two inventors have developed a spinning wind turbine which generates energy from multi-directional winds to make electricity in urban areas. The invention scooped them a prestigious international James Dyson Award

Nicolas Orellana, from Chile, and Yaseen Noorani, from Kenya were studying International Innovation together at Lancaster University when they came up with the design.

They wanted to explore generating energy from the unpredictable winds found in modern towns and cities.

They hoped to utilise this relatively untapped resource, generating energy even on the most blustery of days.

Mr Orellana, 36, and Mr Noorani, 24, created a unique 10 inch (25cm) sphere with vents which sits on a fixed axis and spins when wind hits it from any direction.

When the wind energy turns the device, gears drive a generator which converts the energy into electricity.

This can be used as a direct source of power or can be fed back to the grid.

The cutting-edge design means that cities could use this technology to produce electricity and reduce air pollution and carbon dioxide emissions.

The spinning turbine is a spherical shape with a single axis used for rotating. Its dimensions and shape mean that it is very suitable for energy production in cities, where buildings catapult winds into chaos

Mr Orellana and Mr Noorani won a £2,000 ($2,560) investment for their project in the prestigious Dyson competition and were awarded an additional £35,000 ($45,000) prize.

Sir James Dyson, who chose the winners, said: 'Designing something that solves a problem is an intentionally broad brief. It invites talented young inventors to do more than just identify real problems.

'It empowers them to use their ingenuity to develop inventive solutions. O-Wind Turbine does exactly that.

'It takes the enormous challenge of producing renewable energy and using geometry it can harness energy in places where we've scarcely been looking – cities. It's an ingenious concept.'

The 10 inch sphere has vents which sit on a fixed axis and spins the turbine when wind hits it from any direction. When the wind energy turns the device, its gears drive a generator which converts the energy into electricity. This can be used as a direct source of power

HOW DOES 'O-WIND TURBINE' WORK? The turbine is of a spherical shape with a single axis of rotation going through it. Its dimensions and shape mean that it is very suitable for small-scale energy production by individual apartment dwellers e.g. by being fixed outside balconies. The turbine makes use of Bernoulli’s principle for its mechanical motion. The structure is lined up with vents which have large entrances and smaller exits for air. In the presence of wind, there is a pressure difference between the two terminals causing the turbine to move. The vents are placed all across the sphere making it receptive to wind from all directions in both the vertical and horizontal planes. The turbine will rotate in the same sense about a fixed axis regardless of wind direction. This turbine rotation is used to power a generator that can produce electricity, which can be fed into the national grid, hence providing financial incentive to users and improving the region’s sustainable energy production. Credit: Dyson

The pair hope O-Wind Turbines can be installed on large structures, such as the sides of buildings, or balconies, where wind speeds are at their highest.

The two inventors hope to make their invention cheaply, enabling people to install them on large buildings or balconies, where wind speeds can reach their highest.

'We hope that O-Wind Turbine will improve the usability and affordability of turbines for people across the world,' said Mr Orellana.

'Cities are windy places but we are currently not harnessing this resource. Our belief is that making it easier to generate green energy, people will be encouraged to play a bigger own role in conserving our planet.'

The pair are already in discussions with investors and hope to secure a deal in the coming months.

The pair hope O-Wind Turbines can be installed on large structures, such as the sides of buildings, or balconies, where wind speeds are at their highest. Pictured here, Nicolas Orellana, right and Yaseen Noorani

====== 1535 ========

IVF CLINICS COULD GET RID OF EMBRYOS EXPECTED TO HAVE LOW IQS

IVF clinics may soon use a controversial screening technique to get rid of embryos which are likely to grow up with low IQs.

A company in the US offering tests which can pick out 'mental disabilities' – and, in theory, predict intelligence – has confirmed it is in talks with fertility clinics.

The news has stoked fears about a rise in designer babies, which could be created by parents wanting to erase undesirable traits from their children.

Experts say it is 'repugnant' to think about terminating embryos because they are expected to have lower than average intelligence.

Screening embryos created using IVF could be extended to singling out ones which are expected to develop mental disabilities in some clinics in the US, raising concerns that the tests will one day be used to choose those most likely to grow up with high IQs, experts say

Genomic Prediction, based in New Jersey, can now offer tests to calculate the risk of complex conditions like heart disease, the New Scientist reports.

This type of testing is more complicated than current tests for Down's syndrome, for example, because the risk is determined by numerous genes.

In comparison, the current test for Down's syndrome is based on DNA in a single location. Genomic Prediction's test analyse a larger portion of DNA.

This is because the risk of conditions such as heart disease is determined by larger parts of their DNA, which are difficult to measure.

And whether or not they will have low intelligence could be predicted in the same way, the firm claims. The tests have not been used yet.

While the company says it will only test embryos to find those at a high risk of serious medical conditions – like breast cancer, diabetes and inflammatory bowel disease – it expects people to one day want IQ predictions.

'I think people are going to demand that,' said Genomic Prediction's co-founder, Stephen Hsu. 'If we don’t do it, some other company will.'

Genetic testing before birth began as a way to avoid children being born with deadly disabilities, but could one day allow parents to choose their babies' sex, appearance and intelligence level.

Stephen Hsu, a co-founder of Genomic Predictions, said his company will use the genetic testing to evaluate embryos' risk of developing heart disease, diabetes and cancer, but the same test could point out children likely to have very low IQs, and that people would one day 'demand' to know

Genomic Prediction's new test raises huge ethical dilemmas and concerns about 'playing God', which have been simmering for years.

For example, scientists revealed in April they could determine the sex of a baby from a pin-prick test just eight weeks into a pregnancy.

FEARS SEX TEST COULD FUEL RISE IN SEX-SELECTION ABORTIONS Scientists sparked controversy in April after creating a pin-prick test that can determine the gender of a baby after just eight weeks of pregnancy. There were concerns the test could trigger a rise in sex-selective abortions, especially in countries like India and China where families desire boys over girls for cultural reasons. A government report in India found that the country has 63 million fewer women then it should because families choose to abort their female babies. The situation is much the same in China, where men outnumber women by 34million – significantly more than the entire population of Australia. It is feared the new pin-prick test could fuel a 'genocide' of female babies in India and China as parents are given more time than previously to make a decision on whether to abort their babies.

Experts at the time worried there may be a rise in sex-selective abortions in countries such as China and India where cultures would rather have baby boys.

And there have been concerns that allowing parents to control some aspects of their child could be a slippery slope towards parents one day ruling out traits which don't affect the child's health, like hair or eye colour.

Campaigners against screening for Down's syndrome already argue an inclusive society should not be trying to erase people with disabilities.

Lynn Murray, spokesperson for Don't Screen Us Out, told the New Scientist: 'If we consider inclusion and diversity to be a measure of societal progress, then IQ screening proposals are unethical. There must be wide consultation.'

Genomic Predictions said it won't give parents enough information to get rid of embryos based on their predicted intelligence level.

It said the testing is not accurate enough to actually predict intelligence, but could point out potential outliers – those whose IQ is likely to be 25 points below average (90-110) – and people with mental disabilities.

Professor Peter Visscher, from the University of Queensland, said the idea of using the test to select babies with high IQs is 'repugnant'.

The testing method Genomic Prediction uses analyses DNA to produce a polygenic risk score, determining how likely they are to get certain diseases.

Screening for polygenic conditions can already be done on adults, but Genomic Prediction is set to be the first company to use them on unborn children.

But there are concerns the genes for desirable traits – like high intelligence – may also cause unwanted effects which scientists don't know about.

For example, past research has linked those genes to a higher risk of having autism.

Professor Visscher added: 'You don’t know what you’re selecting for and what comes with it.

'But there are people who pay hundreds of thousands of dollars to have their dead pet cloned. I’m sure there are people who would do this.'

====== 1536 ========

NASA USES AI SOFTWARE TO CREATE LANDER THAT COULD TOUCH DOWN ON SATURN OR JUPITER'S MOONS

A futuristic, spider-like spacecraft could one day discover new insights about the moons of Saturn and Jupiter.

NASA and software company Autodesk have unveiled a concept lander that's ultra lightweight and created, in part, thanks to innovative AI software.

They say the lander has been expertly designed to be able to handle missions to distant planets.

Scroll down for video

NASA and Autodesk have unveiled a concept lander that's ultra lightweight and created, in part, thanks to innovative AI software. The lander is designed to handle deep space missions

WHAT IS NASA'S JET PROPULSION LABORATORY? NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory is a research and development center founded in 1936. The lab focuses on the construction and operation of robotic spacecraft. It developed the US' first earth-orbiting satellite, Explorer 1, and created the first interplanetary spacecraft. JPL also oversees NASA's Deep Space Network, a system of antennas that communicates with interplanetary spacecraft. The lab is also behind the Curiosity and Opportunity rover missions.

NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) is part of the brains behind the lander - the same team that designed and built the Curiosity rover, a car-sized robot that's tasked with exploring Mars.

The team was initially uninterested in Autodesk's designs for a spider-like lander, until they discovered that it's specifically built to handle deep space missions.

That's because the spacecraft weighs less than typical landers.

Autodesk's AI generative design software is capable of spitting out hundreds of different concepts in a matter of hours, based on certain specifications.

'We had developed a custom version of our software for high performance motorsports that enabled us to help our customers solve for multiple constraints at once,' Mark Davis, the senior director of industry research at Autodesk, said in a statement.

'We then applied it to the problems JPL needed to consider. We took a system that was developed to help our customer solve system level suspension problems on a Formula One race car and applied new requirements for structural constraints critical to space exploration.'

In this case, they hoped to create a lander that could withstand the harsh conditions of space, like extremely cold temperatures and high radiation, as well as travel long distances.

NASA's JPL and Autodesk worked to create a lander that could withstand the harsh conditions of space, like extremely cold temperatures and high radiation, as well as travel long distances

Autodesk created some parts of the craft using 3D-printed aluminum. They were able to reduce the mass of the external structure by 35% - making it much lighter than other landers

While Mars is just 35 million miles away, Jupiter is a staggering 365 miles away and Saturn is 381 million miles past that.

Autodesk designers were also able to restrict the concepts to certain materials, like titanium and aluminum.

Through a series of iterations, Autodesk was able to reduce the mass of the external structure by 35 percent - making it much lighter than other landers.

'In space exploration, weight at liftoff is one of the most critical considerations,' Autodesk said in a blog post.

WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT EUROPA AND WHY IS IT SO SPECIAL? Jupiter's icy moon Europa is slightly smaller than Earth's moon. Europa orbits Jupiter every 3.5 days and is tidally locked - just like Earth's Moon - so that the same side of Europa faces Jupiter at all times. It is thought to have an iron core, a rocky mantle and a surface ocean of salty water, like Earth. Unlike on Earth, however, this ocean is deep enough to cover the whole surface of Europa, and being far from the sun, the ocean surface is globally frozen over. Many experts believe the hidden ocean surrounding Europa, warmed by powerful tidal forces caused by Jupiter's gravity, may have conditions favourable for life. Nasa scientists are on the verge of exploring Jupiter's ocean moon Europa for signs of alien life. Europa is our best shot of finding biological life in the solar system, researchers say. The space agency is priming two probes, including one that will land on its surface, to explore the distant moon in detail within the next decade, the agency says.

'Every kilogram of mass that can be cut from the structural payload enables a critical increase in the scientific payload of sensors and instruments to search for life beyond earth.'

The result was a spider-like structure that's made up of three sections.

An internal structure holds the scientific instruments and was created using 3-D printed aluminum.

Another piece, called the chassis, serves as the external structure and connects the lander legs to the main payload box.

The final piece is the lander legs, which were made using a 3D milling machine.

Overall, the lander measures up at 7.5ft wide and 3ft tall, weighing just 176lbs.

The spacecraft is a spider-like structure that's made up of three sections. An internal structure holds the scientific instruments and was created using 3-D printed aluminum

While it's unlikely that Autodesk's lander will make it to space, the firm says the experiment helped show what its AI software can do to create spacecraft for future missions

That's a significant decrease from other landers, such as NASA's Mars InSight lander, which weighs 770lbs.

While it's unlikely that Autodesk's lander will make it to space, the firm says the experiment helped show what its AI software can do to create spacecraft for future projects akin to the Mars Curiosity mission.

'That flexibility and speed to update an existing problem definition rather than starting from scratch, combined with the ability for customers to specify manufacturing constraints, make it a real paradigm shift for people designing these kinds of structures,' Karl Willis, Autodesk's project technology, said in a statement.'

====== 1537 ========

RISE OF GENE-EDITED LIVESTOCK, INCLUDING HORNLESS COWS AND PIGS THAT NEVER HIT PUBERTY

Cows that can withstand hotter temperatures. Cows born without pesky horns. Pigs that never reach puberty.

A company wants to alter farm animals by adding and subtracting genetic traits in a lab. It sounds like science fiction, but Recombinetics sees opportunity for its technology in the livestock industry.

But first, it needs to convince regulators that gene-edited animals are no different than conventionally bred ones.

To make the technology appealing and to ease any fears that it may be creating Franken-animals, Recombinetics isn't starting with productivity.

Instead, it's introducing gene-edited traits as a way to ease animal suffering.

Animal geneticist Alison Van Eenennaam of the University of California, Davis, points to a group of dairy calves that won't have to be de-horned thanks to gene editing. The calves are descended from a bull genetically altered to be hornless

'It's a better story to tell,' said Tammy Lee, CEO of the St. Paul, Minnesota-based company.

For instance, animal welfare advocates have long criticized the way farmers use caustic paste or hot irons to dehorn dairy cows so the animals don't harm each other.

Recombinetics snips out the gene for growing horns so the procedure is unnecessary.

Last year, a bull gene-edited by Recombinetics to have the dominant hornless trait sired several offspring.

All were born hornless as expected, and are being raised at the University of California, Davis.

Once the female offspring starts lactating, its milk will be tested for any abnormalities. Another Recombinetics project: castration-free pigs.

When male piglets go through puberty, their meat can take on an unpleasant odor, something known as 'boar taint.'

To combat it, farmers castrate pigs, a procedure animal welfare advocates say is commonly performed without painkillers.

Editing genes so that pigs never go through puberty would make castration unnecessary.

Also in development are dairy cows that could withstand higher temperatures, so the animals don't suffer in hotter climates.

WHAT IS EPIGENETICS? Epigenetics is a field of molecular science which involves altering the expression of certain genes. It is defined as: 'The study of changes in organisms caused by modification of gene expression rather than alteration of the genetic code itself.' Instead of changing the genes present in a living thing, it changes which of its genes are 'turned on'. Although it is the genetic code which forms the foundations for every living organism, it is the combination of activated genes which defines it. This gene expression can be complex or simple and can control a wide range of features. As some features and behaviours are controlled by single genes, these can be easily altered by turning this gene off, for example. Some genes inhibit growth and limit cell proliferation, by deactivating these genes things can be grown which do not have the same natural limitations as before. This can, and has, led to larger, and bigger foods - mainly seen in the fruit and vegetable sector. The process is completely harmless, as it does not introduce any artificial or 'unnatural' products. One of the most common forms of epigenetics is Crispr-Cas9, which is a specific technique that can edit, activate or deactivate cell.

Recombinetics and others say gene-editing techniques do what traditional breeding has always done, except much faster and with the precision of 'molecular scissors.'

They are waiting for clarity from government officials , but say meat and milk from gene-edited animals shouldn't be subject to special regulations.

Most U.S. dairy cows already are bred through artificial insemination from 'semen straws,' which are priced for a bull's pedigree and traits developed through years of traditional breeding.

Gene-edited traits would just be higher-priced extras, Recombinetics says.

For example, the hornless trait could add $3 to $5 to the price of a semen straw that could cost around $15.

Once gene-editing is accepted by the public, farmers will be more interested in traits that step up productivity, Lee predicted.

As an example, she cited pigs edited to have bigger litters.

CHICKENS AS BIG AS ELEPHANT?

Before food from gene-edited animals can land on dinner tables, however, Recombinetics has to overcome any public unease about the technology.

Beyond worries about 'playing God,' it may be an uncomfortable reminder of how modern food production already treats animals, said Paul Thompson, a professor of agriculture at Michigan State University.

'There's an ethical question that's been debated for at least the last 20 years, of whether you need to change the animal or change the system,' Thompson said.

Support for gene editing will also likely depend on how the technology is used: whether it's for animal welfare, productivity or disease resistance.

In August, a Pew study found 43 percent of Americans supported genetically engineered animals for more nutritious meat.

The array of possibilities is why the Humane Society of the United States supports gene-editing to end pig castrations and cow dehorning but doesn't give the technology its blanket approval.

'If you edit for your chicken to be the size of an elephant, that's not good,' said Josh Balk, the group's vice president of farm animal protection.

The image seems preposterous, but it may not be far off from what the words 'gene-edited animals' conjure for many.

In the science-fiction movie 'Rampage' earlier this year, gene-editing is used to create monsters, including a giant wolf that shoots porcupine spikes from its tail.

Some may also question the need to risk using the technology, if it really just speeds up what could be achieved with conventional breeding.

Advances in traditional breeding have already stepped up the productivity of cows, chickens and pigs.

WHY ARE PEOPLE CONCERNED ABOUT GENE-EDITED 'FRANKENSTEIN FOODS'? 'Frankenstein foods' are crops or meat that has been produced through genetic engineering. Plants and farm animals have genes changed or removed to make them more resistant to certain diseases and pests, or to grow unnaturally large. To make these modifications, viral DNA is used to alter genes, raising health concerns among some groups. A number of people feel the long-term effects of genetically modified (GM) foods on human health are not yet adequately understood. According to the UK-based Nuffield Council on Bioethics (NCB): 'The current evidence from safety assessments of GM crops does not suggest any significant risks to people who eat them.' The foods also present environmental concerns, as GM crops could reduce the variety of plants and animals in the wild, otherwise known as biodiversity. The transfer of genes between modified and unmodified plants may also lead to unexpected consequences, for example an irreversible or uncontrollable 'escape' of genes into neighbouring wild plants by pollen. The NCB says: 'We are not persuaded that possible negative results of gene flow in some areas are sufficient to rule out the planting of GM crops elsewhere in developing countries.'

Today, milk producers can shop for characteristics developed through conventional breeding, like body frames and how efficiently animals convert feed into meat.

Semex, a Canadian seller of bull semen, offers already offers a 'Robot Ready ' option for cows 'built for automation,' with teat lengths and temperaments bred for milking machines.

The company is working with Recombinetics to develop the gene-edited hornless trait.

Notably, hornless dairy cows also already exist. But Recombinetics says there are so few that breeding them would compromise the valuable traits that have been carefully bred into modern dairy cows.

But John Burket, who breeds hornless dairy cows in Pennsylvania, thinks the hornless trait could spread quickly if it was prioritized.

Burket isn't opposed to gene-editing, but he said he's waiting to see if the technology delivers.

'ROBOT READY' COWS

For now, a more practical challenge for Recombinetics will be coming up with gene-edited traits farmers are willing to pay for.

Semex says it will take at least two years of testing before it can start selling the hornless trait for dairy cows.

Conventional breeding comes with a lot more chance, but advances over the years have nevertheless made dairy farms increasingly productive.

Paradoxically, that has contributed to a glut of milk, driving down prices and pressuring farmers.

Recombinetics says improving productivity isn't just about producing more milk or meat but targeting inefficiencies like dehorning and pig castrations.

Still, Lorraine Lewandrowski, a dairy farmer in upstate New York, is reminded of the skepticism she felt with bovine growth hormone in the 1990s.

'Do we want another technology that will put even more milk on the market?' she said.

Lewandrowski is also wary of anything that might give the dairy industry a bad image. But she noted the gene-edited hornless trait could save the time spent on dehorning.

Jonathan Lamb, an owner of Oakfield Dairy in western New York, said he wouldn't pay much extra for the hornless trait; he's watching costs because of low milk prices. But he thinks gene-editing could offer other improvements.

'I see that as a first step to other possibilities,' he said.

====== 1538 ========

MYSTERY OF AURORAS IS REVEALED: SCIENTISTS UNLOCK THE SECRETS OF THEIR EXPLOSIVE ENERGY

Scientists have unlocked the secrets of auroras and how their explosive energy can tell us what is happening millions of miles from Earth.

Auroras are a tell-tale sign of physical processes in space, according to researchers who have tracked a single aurora for four minutes as part of their landmark study.

The aurora began as a line of 'auroral beads' along an arc which grew exponentially in brightness and size.

Scientists say these growing ripples are a hallmark of an instability in the atmosphere, which they have now been able to pinpoint for the first time.

Auroras show us what happens millions of miles away from Earth where our planet's magnetic field stretches into a long tail facing away from the Sun (stock image)

Auroras are a tell-tale sign of physical processes in space, according to researchers who have tracked a single aurora for four minutes as part of their landmark study. Pictured are snapshots of auroral intensities

WHAT DID THEY DO? The team scanned a large portion of the sky and found the perfect substorm located over Poker Flats in Alaska on 18 September 2012. By using new data from the MOOSE (Multi-spectral Observatory Of Sensitive EM-CCDs) camera, they tracked the aurora as it moved towards the northern pole over a four minute period. This is a relatively long time for this type of aurora to be studied, allowing the scientists to collect a wealth of data. The information was then analysed for specific patterns that gave important physical clues about the aurora's formation in space and time. The aurora began as a line of 'auroral beads' along an arc which grew exponentially in brightness and size. These growing ripples are a hallmark of an instability in the atmosphere. By comparing these detailed characteristics from the aurora with state of the art theory, the team could narrow down the area of space where the instability most likely is.

For the study, researchers from UCL and the University of Reading remotely observed rapidly evolving aurora to understand the physics behind why, when and how energy is released as the source of the aurora explosively reconfigures.

They looked at auroral beads which look like spots of colour across the sky and often precede the full-blown aurora.

The separation between these beads can be hundreds of miles apart but they always propagate together.

Experts believe they are generated in different regions of the Earth's magnetosphere and then travel along magnetic field lines to the auroral regions in the upper atmosphere, known as the mesosphere.

Beads with a smaller wavelength might be generated closer to Earth, while ones with a large wavelength are generated much further out in the Earth's magnetosphere.

'Somewhere in the huge volume of space into which Earth's magnetosphere stretches, this energy release occurs via instability which is really hard to pinpoint', said study author Dr Jonathan Rae, of UCL's Space & Climate Physics department.

By studying auroras closely, researchers can map back to where in space the instabilities are occurring and study the physics that cause them.

'It's much more efficient than trying to observe vast areas of space', said Dr Rae.

Their research shows us what is happening in our planet's magnetic field which stretches into a long tail facing away from the sun.

The team scanned a large portion of the sky and found the perfect substorm located over Poker Flats in Alaska on 18 September 2012.

'Substorms are space weather events which, among other things, light up the the whole of the nightside auroral region for about an hour', Dr Colin Forsyth from UCL told MailOnline.

'They result from an energy build up in Earth’s magnetosphere that itself is caused by Earth’s magnetic field becoming linked to the magnetic field coming off the Sun.

'This allows Earth’s magnetic field to capture and store protons and electrons coming of the Sun and build up energy', he said.

This creates a build-up of energy which causes electrons and protons to be fired along the Earth's magentic field and into the upper atmosphere.

This makes the upper atmosphere glow with the aurora.

By using new data from the MOOSE (Multi-spectral Observatory Of Sensitive EM-CCDs) camera, they tracked the aurora as it moved towards the northern pole over a four minute period.

The MOOSE camera is similar to a digital camera and has fish-eye lens that allows it to see the whole sky.

It takes images every third of a second to give high time and space resolution.

'The observations that we got from MOOSE enabled us to work out the properties of a series of electro-magnetic waves that were generating the aurora.

'These properties are set by the conditions in space, which we can get some idea about from spacecraft measurements', said Dr Forsyth.

This is a relatively long time for this type of aurora to be studied, allowing the scientists to collect a wealth of data.

The information was then analysed for specific patterns that gave important physical clues about the aurora's formation in space and time.

The beginning of this ESA footage shows the formation of 'auroral beads'. The separation between these beads can be hundreds of miles apart but they always propagate together

The team scanned a large portion of the sky and found the perfect substorm (pictured) located over Poker Flats in Alaska on 18 September 2012

By comparing these detailed characteristics from the aurora with state of the art theory, the team could narrow down the area of space where the instability most likely is.

'We've shown that it's possible to only study aurora to find out where instabilities are in space, which has not been done before,' explained co-author Dr Colin Forsyth from UCL.

'Our method allows us to predict what the instability is and where it is in space.

'In fact, the region we've identified is incredibly small in space terms - only a small fraction of the volume of the Earth - and we hope to study it in more detail using spacecraft that pass through the area.'

Until now, scientists have been able to describe aurora and high energy events that occur on the sun and other planets within the solar system, but is the first time real physical analysis has been done.

'Importantly, our work has given scientists more physics to work with', said co-author Dr Clare Watt from the University of Reading.

'A whole range of theoretical models can be tested and refined based on the physical characteristics we've captured,' she said.

'What we've reported has eluded scientists since auroras were first described in the 1960s and while we use Earth as our closest laboratory, the findings will apply to other events elsewhere in the solar system', said Dr Rae.

'We now look forward to pinpointing this epicentre in space and finding out what makes it unstable'.

The full findings of the study were published in the journal Nature Communications.

====== 1539 ========

HOW AN EIGHT-PACK PROVED MICHELANGELO'S WORTH

Two bronze sculptures of muscular men riding panthers have been confirmed as the last surviving bronze works from the Renaissance master Michelangelo.

Proof that the 16th-century genius crafted the sculptures comes from unique anatomical features that are directly attributable to Michelangelo.

He was known for depicting muscular males with a rippling abdomen and a so-called 'eight-pack' as well as other distinct features regarding the genitalia of his subjects.

The sculptures also feature anatomically correct pubic hair and testicles as well as deliberately crooked toes - all hallmarks of Michelangelo.

Experts have yet to announce a price for the sculptures if they were to go on sale but it is likely they would surpass the world-record fee of $141 million (£110 million) of Alberto Giacometti's L'homme au doigt sculpture which sold in 2015.

The knowledge and assurance they were in fact created by Michelangelo has significantly increased their value.

They sold for £1.8 million ($2.3 million) at a 2002 London auction and were catalogued as 'Florentine, mid-16th century, a pair of large and impressive Mannerist bronze groups of allegorical male figures astride fantastic beasts'.

Scroll down for video

Proof that Michelangelo crafted the bronze sculptures (pictured) comes from unique anatomical features that are directly attributable to the Italian

The sculptures feature anatomically correct pubic hair and testicles as well as deliberately crooked toes - all hallmarks of Michelangelo and make these two pieces of art the only surviving bronze works from him that survive today

The rare works of art once belonged to the collection of the Rothschild family and it was first claimed they were made by the famed Italian in 2015.

Research from the Fitzwilliam Museum at Cambridge University has finally proved the two pieces are the only known surviving bronze masterpieces by Michelangelo.

The first recorded attribution of the bronzes was when they appeared in the collection of Adolphe de Rothschild in the 19th century, according to the museum.

But since they were undocumented and unsigned, their attribution was dismissed.

Experts have yet to announce a price for the sculptures if they were to go on sale but it is likely they would surpass the world-record fee of $141 million (£110 million) of Alberto Giacometti's L'homme au doigt sculpture which sold in 2015

The rare works of art once belonged to the collection of the Rothschild family and it was first claimed they were made by the famed Italian in 2015. Research from the Fitzwilliam Museum at Cambridge University has finally proved this to be true

The first recorded owner of the bronzes was when they appeared in the collection of Adolphe de Rothschild in the 19th century, according to the museum. But since they were undocumented and unsigned, attribution was dismissed

WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT THE RENAISSANCE MASTER MICHELANGELO? Michelangelo Buonarroti, who lived from 1475 to 1564, was the first artist recognised by contemporaries as a genius, according to the National Gallery in London. He was a painter, on panel and in fresco, as well as a sculptor, architect and writer of sonnets. He was the only artist of whom it was claimed in his lifetime that he surpassed Antiquity. He was born in Caprese in the 1470s and trained first as a painter with Ghirlandaio, and then as a sculptor under the patronage of Lorenzo de' Medici. In 1496, already known as sculptor, he went to Rome, where he carved the 'Pietà' for St Peter's. Back in Florence in 1501 he began work on many sculptural and painterly projects most of which were left unfinished. In 1505. he was summoned to Rome to begin work on a sculpted tomb for Pope Julius II, a project that dogged him until 1545. From 1508 to 1512 he painted the vault of the Sistine Chapel with scenes from the Old Testament, from the Creation to the Story of Noah. Immediately celebrated, the Sistine Chapel ceiling, with its innumerable figures in complex, twisting poses and its exuberant use of colour, is the chief source of the Mannerist style. Although he always considered himself a Florentine, Michelangelo lived most of his life in Rome, where he died at age 88.

Fitzwilliam has claimed its research confirms the 2015 claim that the Rothschild Bronzes were the only known surviving bronze masterpieces by Michelangelo.

'Furthermore, the Rothschild bronzes have certain anatomical anomalies (visible 'eight-pack') as well as accuracies (anatomically correct pubic hair and testicles) and deliberate inaccuracies for artistic effect which are constantly seen in undisputed works by Michelangelo but which are not present in the work of other contemporary artists,' the statement said.

Michelangelo was known to have worked in bronze, but other examples were lost or destroyed.

Michelangelo was known for depicting muscular males with a rippling abdomen and a so-called 'eight-pack' as well as other distinct features regarding the genitalia of his subjects

The knowledge and assurance the bronze sculptures were in fact created by Michelangelo has significantly increased their value. They sold for £1.8 million at a 2002 London auction

Experts from the Fitzwilliam Museum at Cambridge University said: 'Furthermore, the Rothschild bronzes have certain anatomical anomalies (visible 'eight-pack') as well as accuracies (anatomically correct pubic hair and testicles)

'These are the real thing. We believe these to be made by Michelangelo ... And we think these are the originals made around 1505-1507,' Dr Victoria Avery, Keeper of the museum's Applied Arts department, told a news conference.

The findings, including 30 letters written by the artist to his family between 1506 and 1508 while making a colossal bronze statue of Pope Julius II, are presented in a book, Michelangelo: Sculptor in Bronze.

They make him 'the most significant and successful maker of bronze sculpture of his day since Antiquity', the museum said.

Michelangelo Buonarroti, who lived from 1475 to 1564, was the first artist recognised by contemporaries as a genius, according to the National Gallery in London

====== 1540 ========

GOOGLE WANTS TO PUT ITS VIRTUAL ASSISTANT IN EVERY ROOM OF THE HOME

Google has unveiled its plan to put a smart device in every room of the home as part of its digital 'ecosystem' that could be manipulated to eavesdrop on users.

The tech giant's smart home concept, unveiled at a one-off event in San Francisco, showcased Google Assistant at its full potential.

It combined speakers, smart plugs, voice controlled vacuums, smart displays and cameras throughout the house.

Its digital ecosystem is designed to enable communication between rooms and family members - even if they are not at home.

But experts are wary of the technology and have warned the gadgets have the potential to eavesdrop on confidential conversations in order to sell users new products.

Scroll down for video

Google has unveiled its plan to put a smart device in every room of the home as part of its digital 'ecosystem' that could be manipulated to eavesdrop on users. The tech giant's smart home concept showcases Google Assistant at its maximum potential (stock)

Google is hoping to expand from a single room smart speaker and into a complex, interwoven system.

Rivals Amazon and Samsung are simultaneously working on similar systems that are also designed to make modern life simpler and easier to navigate.

Concerns have been raised over the security of the deeply personal data that is available to big tech firms via these connected devices.

A previous study claimed patent applications from Amazon and Google revealed how Amazon's Alexa and Google's Voice Assistant are 'spying' on users.

The findings were published in a report created by Santa Monica, California based advocacy group Consumer Watchdog.

It says patents reveal the devices' possible use as surveillance equipment for massive information collection and intrusive digital advertising.

For now, users can only take advantage of alarm-based routines if they have an Android phone. It can be accessed by going to the Clock app and then clicking on 'Google Assistant Routine'

The study found that digital assistants can be 'awake' even when users think they aren't listening.

The digital assistants are supposed to react only when they hear a so-called 'wakeword.'

WHAT IS GOOGLE ASSISTANT? Google Assistant is the firm's AI-powered digital assistant that responds to voice or text commands. The company first launched it in Google apps and Pixel phones in 2016, then later expanded to Android devices, smart appliances and the Google Home Hub, its first smart display. It can tell users the weather, show them what's on their calendar, answer questions on a variety of topics and turn on smart home devices, among other things.

For Amazon's Echo it's 'Alexa' and for Google Home it's 'OK, Google.'

In fact, the devices listen all the time they are turned on – and Amazon has envisioned Alexa using that information to build profiles on anyone in the room to sell them goods.

In April of this year, security researchers discovered another troubling flaw that confirmed Alexa was able to make the smart speaker listen in on and record any conversations that it hears while eavesdropping.

Cybersecurity firm Checkmarx created what seemed to be a harmless calculator skill, or an application used for the voice-activated assistant, that would secretly record long after a user made a command.

Researchers figured out that they could tweak Alexa's coding to allow it to continue listening in and recording long after the user thought they'd completed the session.

Not only did the skill continue to listen, but coding also instructed Alexa to transcribe the conversation, making it searchable by developers.

Amazon claimed it later fixed the issue.

Google Home Hub was paraded at a press event and also unveiled 'routines,' or multiple tasks that are triggered by a single command, using its digital assistant.

Google Assistant wants to help you get out of bed in the morning. The firm is launching a skill that lets users set routines for the digital assistant that begin after they snooze the alarm

For example, when users say 'Hey Google, good morning,' it will turn your lights on, brew your coffee and read you the news.

Now, a new addition to Google Assistant makes it so that routines are triggered after you hit snooze on your alarm.

This makes it so that if users have a problem with hitting the snooze button in the morning, their routine will only go off when they're actually getting out of bed.

For now, users can only take advantage of this feature if they own an Android phone.

It can be accessed by going to the Clock app on Android devices.

Google also showed off the ability to have the feature suitable for children as it revealed alarms voiced by characters from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and LEGO City are available.

Turtle alarms was one of the ways Google tried to expand its appeal and draw in families with young children.

It also can read children a bedtime story including popular shows Dora the Explorer and PAW Patrol.

There is also a 'read along' mode which plays music and sound effects alongside a parent reading to a child.

====== 1541 ========

BRITAIN NEEDS TO PLANT MORE TREES AND EAT LESS MEAT TO HELP 'STOP THE PLANET OVERHEATING'

Britain needs to plant more trees, eat less meat and scrap woodburning stoves to help stop global warming, the Government’s climate advice body warned today.

A report by the Committee on Climate Change (CCC) said ‘fundamental changes’ to the way we use land are needed to stop the planet overheating.

Boosting woodland cover from 13 per cent today to 19 per cent by 2050, restoring as much as 70 per cent of UK peatland, planting more hedgerows and encouraging more mixed farming could help deliver needed emissions cuts, it added.

The report did not call for vegetarianism but said that people would need to eat less meat

The report, Biomass In A Low Carbon Economy, warned that recycling will need to be greatly stepped up. ‘By 2025 no bio-degradable wastes such as food, paper, card, wood, textiles and garden waste should be sent to landfill,’ it said.

The Government is legally obliged to cut greenhouse gas emissions by at least 80 per cent of 1990 levels by 2050.

Lord Deben, one of the report’s authors, said: ‘We need to have much more mixed farming, not just monocultures.’

Beef cattle have a role to play in fertilising soil through their manure, he added, but he warned against intensive farming.

The report was not calling for vegetarianism but for people to eat less meat, he said.

Children in London have an average 5 per cent lower lung capacity than expected because of diesel fumes, tests by researchers in the city show.

====== 1542 ========

GALAXY CLUSTER SHAPED LIKE STAR TREK'S USS ENTERPRISE FOUND

It's great news for fans of Star Trek - astronomers have spotted the USS Enterprise.

However, all is not as it seems - in fact, the strange image is a galaxy cluster 1.6 billion light years away.

Officially known as Abell 1033, NASA says it bears an 'uncanny resemblance' to the Star Trek ship.

Scroll down for video

A new composite image of the galaxy cluster Abell 1033, including X-rays from Chandra (purple) and radio emission from the Low-Frequency Array (LOFAR) network in the Netherlands (blue), does just that.

The galaxy cluster is officially known as Abell 1033, and is about 1.6 billion light years from Earth.

Using X-ray and radio data, scientists found Abell 1033 is actually two galaxy clusters in the process of colliding.

'This extraordinarily energetic event, happening from the top to the bottom in the image, has produced turbulence and shock waves, similar to sonic booms produced by a plane moving faster than the speed of sound,' NASA said.

A detailed study of the image shows that the energy of the electrons in the 'saucer section' and neck of the starship-shaped radio emission in Abell 1033 is higher than that found in the stardrive section towards the lower left. This suggests that the electrons have been reenergized, presumably when the jets interact with turbulence or shock waves in the hot gas. Right, The USS Enterprise:

The space agency also says the image provides an example of 'pareidolia', a psychological phenomenon where familiar shapes and patterns are seen in otherwise random data.

'In Abell 1033, the structures in the data create an uncanny resemblance to many of the depictions of the fictional Starship Enterprise from Star Trek,' it added.

In Abell 1033, the collision has interacted with another energetic cosmic process — the production of jets of high-speed particles by matter spiraling into a supermassive black hole, in this case one located in a galaxy in one of the clusters.

These jets are revealed by radio emission to the left and right sides of the image.

WHAT IS A GALAXY CLUSTER? Galaxy clusters are cosmic structures containing hundreds or even thousands of galaxies. They are the largest objects in the Universe held together by gravity. Multi-million-degree gas fills the space in between the individual galaxies. The mass of the hot gas is about six times greater than that of all the galaxies combined. This superheated gas is invisible to optical telescopes, but shines brightly in X-rays, so an X-ray telescope like NASA's Chandra X-ray Observatory is required to study it. By combining X-rays with other types of light, such as radio waves, a more complete picture of these important cosmic objects can be obtained.

The radio emission is produced by electrons spiraling around magnetic field lines, a process called synchrotron emission.

The electrons in the jets are traveling at very close to the speed of light.

As the galaxy and its black hole moved toward the lower part of the image, the jet on the right slowed down as it crashed into hot gas in the other galaxy cluster.

The jet on the left did not slow down because it encountered much less hot gas, giving a warped appearance for the jets, rather than the straight line that is typically seen.

In terms of astrophysical research, a detailed study of the image shows that the energy of the electrons in the 'saucer section' and neck of the starship-shaped radio emission in Abell 1033 is higher than that found in the stardrive section towards the lower left.

This suggests that the electrons have been reenergized, presumably when the jets interact with turbulence or shock waves in the hot gas, NASA said.

The energetic electrons producing the radio emission will normally lose substantial amounts of energy over tens to hundreds of millions of years as they radiate.

The radio emission would then become undetectable.

However, the vastly extended radio emission observed in Abell 1033, extending over about 500,000 light years, implies that energetic electrons are present in larger quantities and with higher energies than previously thought.

One idea is that the electrons have been given a further boost in energy by extra bouts of shocks and turbulence.

Other sources of radio emission in the image besides the starship-shaped object are the shorter jets from another galaxy (labeled 'short jets') and a 'radio phoenix' consisting of a cloud of electrons that faded in radio emission but was then reenergized when shock waves compressed the cloud.

This caused the cloud to once again shine at radio frequencies.

====== 1543 ========

ITALY'S CAMPI FLEGREI SUPERVOLCANO IS BUILDING UP MAGMA

A supervolcano in southern Italy is building huge magma reserves as it prepares to erupt at 'some undetermined point in the future', scientists say.

The vast Campi Flegrei volcano is made up of 24 craters and scientists have found it is accumulating the magma as part of a transition into a 'pre-eruption' phase.

Experts have said that an eruption is not expected in the imminent future but the volcano has shown signs of significant unrest over the last 60 years.

When the volcano eventually erupts it is likely to be comparable in size to the eruption of Mount Vesuvius that destroyed the cities of Pompeii and Herculaneum.

Scroll down for video

Campi Flegrei's caldera (pictured) is found about nine miles to the west of Naples and is one of the few active supervolcanoes in the world. It has not erupted since 1538 but is capable of creating a 'super-colossal' eruption

Campi Flegrei is found about nine miles (14.5 km) to the west of Naples and is one of the few active supervolcanoes in the world.

It has not erupted since 1538 but is capable of creating a 'super-colossal' eruption as scientists have found evidence of one such event from 40,000 years ago.

This is the second highest category of eruptions is behind only the 'mega-eruptions' of Yellowstone and would cause widespread destruction throughout modern Europe.

Volcanologist Christopher Kilburn, from the University College London added: 'Should an eruption occur, the best guess is that it will have a size and behaviour... ranging from the size of the last eruption (Monte Nuovo, 1538) to something similar to the eruption of Vesuvius that overwhelmed Pompeii and Herculaneum.

'These are the scenarios being used to prepare mitigation plans.'

The 1.5 million people that live around the caldera would be the most at-risk should the volcano be triggered.

Francesca Forni, from ETH Zurich in Switzerland, published research in the journal Science Advances after taking 23 samples of rock, mineral and glass from Campi Flegrei.

Findings from the research revealed magma is gathering underneath the main volcanic system, which could indicate that it is entering the next phase.

Analysis from Dr Forni's team found that since the 1538 Monte Nuovo eruption there have been subtle changes to the temperature and water content of the magma.

An eruption of the Camp Flegrei supervolcano would dwarf the devastation caused by Mount Vesuvius on the otherside of Naples (illustrated)

Campi Flegrei covers more than 100 square kilometres (38.6 square miles) outside the western suburbs of Naples

Since the 1950s, there have been three 'major periods of unrest,' raising concern that the volcano is reawakening.

Migrating magma several miles beneath the surface has previously been blamed for this seismic unrest.

Luca De Siena, from the University of Aberdeen, told Newsweek: 'At Campi Flegrei, an outstanding question is why we cannot see the plumbing systems of the volcano below 2.5-3 miles (4-5km) depths, as at Yellowstone caldera, for example.'

====== 1544 ========

FACE ID NOT WORKING FOR APPLE IPHONE XS MAX USERS

An apparent problem with new software means that some iPhone X users are not able to activate Face ID on their handsets.

The mysterious bug means that for to unlock their devices they have to enter their pass code manually.

Frustrated Apple users are taking to Twitter and Reddit to complain about the problem which causes a 'not available' message to show up on the screen.

The issue has been linked to the latest iOS 12.1 version upgrade, according to reports from customers on social media.

Scroll down for video

Frustrated Apple users are taking to Twitter and Reddit to complain about the mysterious bug that causes a 'not available' message to show up on the screen, pictured

HOW TO FIX IT Press the Volume Up key then release, press the Volume Down key then release. Then press and hold the Power button until you see the Apple logo on-screen. This should resolve the issue, but if Face ID is still not working, you will need to contact Apple Support.

Face ID reinvented the way we unlock smartphones. Apple introduced the software as a way to safely identify users.

The technology is only available on the iPhone X, iPhone XS, iPhone XS Max and the iPhone XR.

The problem appears to mostly affect the iPhone XS Max, the newest model of the phone which costs up to £1,449.

The complaints have been posted Reddit, Twitter and Apple support forums for several weeks.

One user wrote: 'I got my XS Max a few weeks ago, and Face ID has been working wonderfully until maybe yesterday or this morning.

'So, when I just tried to start over and reset my Face ID, I got a message saying 'Face ID is not available. Try setting up Face ID later'.'

Some users thought that issue was linked to the 12.1 upgrade as one wrote that the problem started an hour after they downloaded the upgrade.

Another said: 'Had the same thing, but the update to 12.1 fixed it in my case.'

Fortunately there is a way to solve the issue by performing a soft reset.

Many users suggested that the method works.

One said: 'Try to do a hard reset (volume up, down, then press and hold the side button until you see the apple logo)

'If not: Reset all settings under general--reset. If still not......apple store or send it in.'

An iPhone X allegedly "exploded" yesterday as a user was in the process of installing a software update. Rocky Mohamadali posted pictured of the cracked and blackened phone after it 'got hot and exploded' as he downloaded the update

Rest assured this is just a reboot and will not wipe any data from your handset.

This isn't the first time facial ID technology has failed. Around this time last year there were many reports from iPhone users who's Face ID technology didn't work.

The problem was apparently because of the iOS 11.2 update which was created to fix another bug in the Apple system that was causing some phones to constantly crash.

In a rare instance, a man took to Twitter to complain after his iPhone apparently exploded.

The diagram shows how facial recognition technology works. Fortunately there is a way to solve the issue by performing a soft reset. Rest assured this is just a reboot and will not wipe any data from your handset

Rocky Mohamadali posted pictured of the cracked and blackened phone after it 'got hot and exploded' as he downloaded the update.

Mohamadali said that dark grey smoke started coming from the phone before it caught fire.

Apple wrote back with: 'That's definitely not expected behavior. DM us, so we can look into this with you.'

The issue is said to be being investigated.

Findings last year suggested that facial recognition could not guarantee security for users.

Since it's release cyber-security researchers claimed that they fooled the face recognition technology with a mask that costs just £114 ($150) to make.

====== 1545 ========

COULD THE PLASTIC POLLUTING THE OCEANS BE RECYCLED? EXPERT WARNS 'THE OPTIONS ARE NOT GOOD'

As you read this, a strange object that looks like a 2,000-foot floating pool noodle is drifting slowly through the central north Pacific Ocean.

This object is designed to solve an enormous environmental problem. But in so doing, it brings attention to a number of others.

There are an estimated five trillion pieces of plastic floating on and in the world's oceans.

The massive pool noodle will move through the Great Pacific Garbage Patch, driven by the wind and currents and picking up the plastic it encounters along the way.

Scroll down for video

Environmental ethicists are wondering about where this plastic will end up next. The ocean is better off without it, of course, but the plastic problem has many more layers than it first appears. File photo

Ocean Cleanup, the organization that developed the device, promises 'the largest cleanup in history.'

If it works, the device – blandly named System 001 – could make a dent in the enormous amount of ocean-borne plastic. But once that plastic is collected the options are not good.

That's where an environmental ethicist like me starts thinking about where this plastic will end up next.

The ocean is better off without it, of course, but the plastic problem has many more layers than it first appears.

The struggle of sorting

Recycling plastic is only possible if it can be meticulously separated into its various chemical types.

What people generally describe with the single word 'plastic' encompasses seven main types of materials – the ones used to make soda bottles, trash bags, cling wrap, shopping bags, yogurt containers, fishing nets, foam insulation and non-metal parts of many household appliances.

Recycling each of these types, which you might know by their acronyms – such as PETE, LDPE, PVC, PP and HDPE – requires a different chemical process.

That's why many household recycling programs ask residents to sort their plastics – and why communities that let people put recyclables of all types into one big bin employ people and machines to sort it after it's collected.

The plastics polluting the world's oceans need to be cleaned up. But people should be very careful about what sort of technological fixes they employ, the researcher says. File photo

Sorting won't be easy with the plastic in the ocean. All the different kinds of plastic are mixed up together, and some of it has been chemically and physically broken down by sunlight and wave action.

Much of it is now in tiny pieces called microplastics, suspended just below the surface.

The first difficulty, but by no means the last, will be sorting all that plastic – plus seaweed, barnacles and other sea life that may have attached itself to the floating debris.

Recycling or downcycling?

Ocean Cleanup is working on how best to reprocess, and brand, the material it collects, hoping that a willing market will emerge for its uniquely sourced product.

Even if the company's engineers and researchers can figure out how to sort it all, there are physical limitations to how useful the collected plastic will be.

The act of recycling involves grinding up materials into very small pieces before melting and reforming them.

An inescapable part of that process is that every time plastic is recycled, its polymers – the long chemical sequences that provide its structure – become shorter.

Generally speaking, lighter and more flexible types of plastic can only be recycled into denser, harder materials – unless large amounts of new virgin plastic are added to the mixture.

After one or two rounds of recycling, the possibilities for reuse become very limited.

At that point, the 'downcycled' plastic material is formed into textiles, car bumpers or plastic lumber, none of which end up anywhere else but the landfill.

The plastic becomes garbage.

Plastic composting

What if there were a way to ensure that plastic was genuinely recyclable over the long term?

Most bacteria can't degrade plastics because the polymers contain strong carbon-to-carbon chemical bonds that are different from anything bacteria evolved alongside in nature.

Fortunately, after being in the environment with human-discarded plastics for a number of decades, bacteria seem to be evolving to use this synthetic feedstock that pervades modern life.

In 2016, a team of biologists and materials scientists found a bacterium that can eat the particular type of plastic used in beverage bottles.

The bacteria turns PET plastic into more basic substances that can be remade into virgin plastics.

WHAT DOES THE DEEP-SEA DEBRIS DATABASE REVEAL ABOUT OCEAN PLASTIC POLLUTION? Plastic pollution is a scourge that is ravaging the surface of our planet. Now, the polluting polymer is sinking down to the bottom of the ocean. The deepest part of the ocean is found in the Mariana Trench, located in the western Pacific Ocean, to the east of the Mariana Islands. It stretches down nearly 36,100 feet (11,000 metres) below the surface. One plastic bag was found 35,754 feet (10,898 metres) below the surface in this region, the deepest known piece of human-made pollution in the world. This single-use piece of plastic was found deeper than 33 Eiffel towers, laid tip to base, would reach. Whilst the plastic pollution is rapidly sinking, it is also spreading further into the middle of the oceans. A piece of plastic was found over 620 miles (1,000 km) from the nearest coast - that's further than the length of France. The Global Oceanographic Data Center (Godac) of the Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology (Jamstec) launched for public use in March 2017. In this database, there is the data from 5,010 different dives. From all of these different dives, 3,425 man-made debris items were counted. More than 33 per cent of the debris was macro-plastic followed by metal (26 per cent), rubber (1.8 per cent), ﬁshing gear (1.7 per cent), glass (1.4 per cent), cloth/paper/lumber (1.3 per cent), and 'other' anthropogenic items (35 per cent). It was also discovered that of all the waste found, 89 per cent of it was designed for single-use purposes. This is defined as plastic bags, bottles and packages. The deeper the study looked, the greater the amount of plastic they found. Of all man-made items found deeper than 20,000 feet (6,000 metres), the ratios increased to 52 per cent for macro-plastic and 92 per cent for single-use plastic. The direct damage this caused to the ecosystem and environment is clear to see as deep-sea organisms were observed in the 17 per cent of plastic debris images taken by the study.

After identifying the key enzyme in the bacteria's plastic-digestion process, the research team went on to deliberately engineer the enzyme to make it more effective.

One scholar said the engineering work has managed to 'overtake evolution.'

At this point, the breakthroughs are only working in laboratory conditions and only on one of the seven types of plastics.

But the idea of going beyond natural evolution is where the ears of an environmental philosopher go on alert.

Synthetic enzymes and bacteria

Discovering the plastic-eating bacterium and its enzyme took a lot of watching, waiting and testing. Evolution isn't always quick.

The findings suggest the possibility of discovering additional enzymes that work with other plastics. But they also raise the possibility of taking matters into our own hands and designing new enzymes and microbes.

Already, completely artificial proteins coded by synthetically constructed genes are acting like artificial enzymes and catalyzing reactions in cells. One researcher claims 'we can develop proteins – that would normally have taken billions of years to evolve – in a matter of months.'

Sorting won't be easy with the plastic in the ocean. All the different kinds of plastic are mixed up together, and some of it has been chemically and physically broken down by sunlight and wave action, the researcher says

In other labs, synthetic genomes built entirely out of bottles of chemicals are now capable of running bacterial cells.

Entirely synthetic cells – genomes, metabolic processes, functional cellular structures and all – are thought to be only a decade away.

This coming era of synthetic biology not only promises to change what organisms can do. It threatens to change what organisms actually are.

Bacteria will no longer just be naturally occurring life forms; some, even many, of them will be purpose-built microbes constructed expressly to provide functions useful to humans, such as composting plastic.

HOW MUCH PLASTIC IS IN THE ARCTIC? The pristine waters of the Arctic are turning into a floating rubbish dump – posing a threat to marine life, scientists warn. One of the densest areas of plastic rubbish anywhere in the world’s seas has been discovered north of Norway and Russia. Miles from civilisation, the amount of plastic waste in the Barents Sea – on the margins of the Arctic Ocean – has risen almost 20-fold in just ten years. The detritus, which included plastic bags and fishing nets, was discovered more than 8,000ft below the water’s surface. The litter was logged at two polar research stations between Greenland and the Svalbard archipelago – found half way between Norway and the North Pole. The data was recorded by researchers from Germany’s Alfred Wegener Research Institute and published in the journal Deep-Sea Research I. In one area, the amount of waste had risen from 346 pieces per square kilometre in 2004 to 6,333 in 2014. Scientists now fear the region has become one of the world’s biggest floating rubbish dumps, alongside other zones in the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans. Fishing nets are a big source of plastic pollution on the Arctic island of Svalbard, with an estimated 80 per cent of plastic rubbish coming from fishing.

The border between life and machine will blur.

The plastics polluting the world's oceans need to be cleaned up. Bringing them back to land would reinforce the fact that even on a global scale, it's impossible to throw trash 'away' – it just goes somewhere else for a time.

But people should be very careful about what sort of technological fixes they employ.

I cannot help but see the irony of trying to solve the very real problem of too many synthetic materials littering the oceans by introducing to the world trillions of synthetically produced proteins or bacteria to clean them up.

====== 1546 ========

NEW GOOGLE ASSISTANT SKILL WILL TURN ON YOUR LIGHTS, READ YOU THE NEWS AND BREW YOUR COFFEE

Google Assistant wants to help you get out of bed in the morning.

The search giant has long given users the ability to set 'routines,' or multiple tasks that are triggered by a single command, using its digital assistant.

For example, when users say 'Hey Google, good morning,' it will turn your lights on, brew your coffee and read you the news.

Now, a new addition to Google Assistant makes it so that routines are triggered after you hit snooze on your alarm.

Scroll down for video

Google Assistant wants to help you get out of bed in the morning. The firm is launching a skill that lets users set routines for the digital assistant that begin after they snooze the alarm

WHAT IS GOOGLE ASSISTANT? Google Assistant is the firm's AI-powered digital assistant that responds to voice or text commands. The company first launched it in Google apps and Pixel phones in 2016, then later expanded to Android devices, smart appliances and the Google Home Hub, its first smart display. It can tell users the weather, show them what's on their calendar, answer questions on a variety of topics and turn on smart home devices, among other things.

This makes it so that if users have a problem with hitting the snooze button in the morning, their routine will only go off when they're actually getting out of bed.

For now, users can only take advantage of this feature if they own an Android phone.

It can be accessed by going to the Clock app on Android devices.

When users go to set an alarm, there's an option for 'Google Assistant Routine.'

From there, users can select different skills to customize their routine with, like instructing Google Assistant to them about the weather, their commute, morning meetings and other reminders.

It can also adjust smart plugs, lights, thermostats and other household appliances.

Then, once it runs through the users tasks or reminders for the day, users can configure it so that Google Assistant tells them the news and plays a podcast or an audiobook.

For now, users can only take advantage of alarm-based routines if they have an Android phone. It can be accessed by going to the Clock app and then clicking on 'Google Assistant Routine'

And that's not the only new Google Assistant feature.

The firm is also upgrading its broadcasts tool, which lets users send an audio message to other members of their household using a Google Assistant-equipped device, such as the Google Home.

It's particularly useful for parents who want to make house-wide announcements, such as letting their kids know when dinner is ready.

Now, Google is giving users the ability to broadcast messages when they're out of the house.

For example, if you're a parent on your way home from work, you can tell your kids to put the chicken in the oven, or other helpful reminders.

Spoken messages also get sent to users as transcribed messages, giving the user who sent or received the broadcast the option to reply.

It comes as Google has launched several new Assistant features in recent months.

In October, Google launched a new Call Screen feature that uses Google Assistant to block spam calls.

Users activate a feature as the call comes in, and Google will transcribe it live on screen.

====== 1547 ========

FACEBOOK EMPLOYEES' MORALE HAS PLUMMETED 32% AFTER COMPANY'S TURBULENT YEAR, INTERNAL SURVEY REVEALS

Facebook's difficult year is weighing on employees' minds.

An internal survey obtained by The Wall Street Journal shows that 52 percent of Facebook employees said they were optimistic about the company's future - a sharp decrease from 84 percent a year ago.

The survey results come amid a broader reckoning around Facebook's role in spreading fake news and its continued mishandling of user data, among other scandals.

Scroll down for video

An internal survey shows that of 52 percent of Facebook employees said they were optimistic about the company's future - a sharp decrease from 84 percent a year ago

The data came from Facebook's twice-annual 'pulse' survey and received responses from about 29,000 Facebook employees, according to the Journal.

Employee morale in the company isn't the only thing that's dropped, either.

Approximately 53 percent of employees believe Facebook is 'making the world better,' which is a significant slump from 72 percent last year.

What's more, 70 percent of employees said they were proud to work at Facebook, compared to 87 percent one year earlier.

That seems to be affecting whether or not they intend to stay at the company for much longer.

On average, employees said they plan to remain another 3.9 years at Facebook, down from 4.3 years one year ago.

CEO Mark Zuckerberg and Facebook came under severe scrutiny after it emerged that personal data of 87 million users had been shared with research firm Cambridge Analytica

And roughly 12 percent of employees said they intend to stay at the company for less than a year.

Inside the company, Facebook executives have attempted to calm fears around its future by addressing employees about it directly.

CEO Mark Zuckerberg discussed the survey's findings at a question-and-answer meeting in November, with he and other executives pledging to tackle the underlying issues, the Journal said.

Employees have reportedly voiced frustrations around ongoing turbulence among the top ranks of the company, as well as its declining stock price, which has shaved off some of the value of their stock options - a major source of compensation for many.

The firm faced widespread backlash after it emerged that disinformation spread on the platform during the 2016 presidential election, but even then, employee morale remained mostly in tact.

Now, it seems the combination of privacy scandals, executive departures and stagnant user growth have made more of an impact, the Journal said.

WHAT IS THE CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICA SCANDAL? Communications firm Cambridge Analytica has offices in London, New York, Washington, as well as Brazil and Malaysia. The company boasts it can 'find your voters and move them to action' through data-driven campaigns and a team that includes data scientists and behavioural psychologists. 'Within the United States alone, we have played a pivotal role in winning presidential races as well as congressional and state elections,' with data on more than 230 million American voters, Cambridge Analytica claims on its website. The company profited from a feature that meant apps could ask for permission to access your own data as well as the data of all your Facebook friends. The data firm suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix (pictured), after recordings emerged of him making a series of controversial claims, including boasts that Cambridge Analytica had a pivotal role in the election of Donald Trump This meant the company was able to mine the information of 87 million Facebook users even though just 270,000 people gave them permission to do so. This was designed to help them create software that can predict and influence voters' choices at the ballot box. The data firm suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, after recordings emerged of him making a series of controversial claims, including boasts that Cambridge Analytica had a pivotal role in the election of Donald Trump. This information is said to have been used to help the Brexit campaign in the UK.

Zuckerberg and COO Sheryl Sandberg have said they hope to address many of the underlying issues at the firm.

'It has been a difficult period, but every day we see people pulling together to learn the lessons of the past year and build a stronger company,' a Facebook spokeswoman told the Journal.

'Everyone at Facebook has a stake in our future and we are heads down shipping great products and protecting the people who use them.'

Facebook has faced a challenging year as it continues to grapple with the fallout from the Cambridge Analytica scandal, which resulted in 87 million users' data being harvested without their knowledge.

Then, in October, the firm revealed 50 million accounts had been compromised as a result of a flaw in its 'View As' feature.

That's on top of continued issues with the spread of disinformation and hate speech on its platform, as well as its role in enabling violence in Myanmar.

Those issues, as well as concerns, about plateauing user growth, have caused Facebook's stock to slide more than 35 percent from its peak in July.

====== 1548 ========

CREATOR OF VINE REVEALS 'BYTE' AFTER HIATUS FROM PROJECT

Internet users have been clamoring for the Vine app to be resurrected for years and it seems they may finally be getting their wish.

Vine co-founder Dom Hofmann plans to launch a successor to his popular video-looping site next year.

The new app, called Byte, is expected to launch in 2019.

Scroll down for video

Vine co-founder Dom Hofmann plans to launch a successor to his popular video-looping site next year. The new app, called Byte, is expected to launch in 2019, he said in a tweet

Previously, Hofmann had said the successor to Vine would be launched as 'V2,' but he postponed those plans 'indefinitely' in May.

In a tweet, he confirmed that Byte would essentially be 'V2.'

It's unclear whether Byte will take on the same functionality and design as Vine, which let users upload short clips to the app that were around six seconds long.

Users would subscribe to their favorite video creators and the clips would appear in a timeline in the app that could be scrolled through.

Hofmann noted that Byte has already secured funding, developed a product and that it has a team behind it as well.

Vine shut down in 2016, four years after it was acquired by Twitter in 2016.

Vine shut down in 2016, four years after it was acquired by Twitter in 2016. It shot to popularity as it attracted droves of video creators, many of which now use YouTube, Instagram and TikTok

It shot to popularity as it attracted droves of video creators, many of which now use YouTube, Instagram, TikTok and other social media platforms.

Vine reportedly had 200 million users at the height of its popularity.

After it shuttered in 2016, Hofmann said he hoped to resurrect it as 'V2.'

Those plans were discontinued earlier this year, however, after Hofmann cited financial and legal hurdles.

'When I announced that I was working on a follow-up to Vine, I also (perhaps foolishly) announced that it would be a personal project and personally funded,' Hofmann wrote.

'I underestimated the amount of enthusiasm and attention the announcement would generate. The interest has been extremely encouraging, but it has also created some roadblocks.

'Taking into account a larger-than-expected audience, we now know that the estimated costs for the first few months alone would be very high, way beyond what can be personally funded.'

In December of last year, Hofmann shared a cryptic tweet of a logo in the same style and color of the original Vine with the message V2.

====== 1549 ========

BELIEVING WE ARE 'MULTITASKING' BOOSTS PERFORMANCE EVEN IF WE AREN'T TACKLING SEVERAL JOBS AT ONCE

Multitasking boosts performance even if we aren't tackling several jobs at once, a new behavioural study has found.

While evidence suggests that juggling different tasks can affect how well we do them, researchers found that thinking you're multitasking can improve productivity.

A series of experiments conducted by the University of Michigan found that the 'illusion' of multitasking makes us more engaged in the task at hand.

Previous research has shown that it is impossible for humans to pay attention to multiple tasks efficiently and attentively at the same time.

But while we are switching back and forth between tasks, we might think we are multitasking - when in fact we are not.

Scroll down for video

Believing that we are 'multitasking' boosts performance - even if we aren't tackling several jobs at once, according to a new study. Taking on too many tasks at once can affect how well we do them, but researchers found that the 'illusion of multitasking' can improve productivity (stock)

Assistant Professor Shalena Srna, of the University of Michigan who led the study says that multitasking is often a matter of perception or even an illusion.

'We might perceive sitting in a meeting as a single task, but we may actually be engaged in two tasks - listening to the person speaking and taking notes,' she says.

'Regardless of whether people actually engage in a single task or multiple tasks, making them perceive this activity as multitasking is beneficial to performance.'

In a lab-based study, more than 160 participants watched and transcribed an educational video from Animal Planet.

Despite participants completing the same activities, half of them were told they were completing two tasks - learning and transcribing - while the others believed they were completing a single task to test their learning and writing abilities.

The group that thought they were multitasking transcribed more words per second, wrote a greater number of words accurately and scored better on a comprehension quiz.

Similar result patterns were also produced in an online note-taking study where participants who thought they were multitasking took better notes with more words compared with those who thought they were single-tasking.

In another online study, researchers tried to determine whether a more subtle manipulation would influence our perceptions of multitasking.

All participants completed two word puzzles presented on the screen at the same time.

A series of experiments suggests that simply believing that we are multitasking makes us more engaged in the task at hand and can improve the way we work (stock image)

Some believed all the puzzles they saw to belong to the same study, displayed against the same background, while others thought the puzzles belonged to two separate studies and were displayed against different backgrounds, separated by a vertical line.

Those who believed the puzzles to be part of two different studies said the activity was more like multitasking than those who thought they were completing puzzles for a single study.

Again, the 'multitaskers' submitted more words per second and more correct words compared with their single-tasking peers.

The results reoccurred across 30 experiments where participants received monetary rewards based on their performance.

Dr Srna and her team suggested perceiving an activity as multitasking might enhance performance by affecting how much we engage in tasks and conducted further lab-based experiments to test their theory.

The team used eye-tracking technology to measure participants' eye dilation as they worked to show their mental efforts while completing tasks.

Participants who believed they were multitasking not only performed the task better but their pupils were also more dilated on average during the activity which suggests they were exerting more mental effort to stay engaged.

The findings were published in the journal Psychological Science.

====== 1550 ========

APPLE DOWNGRADED AS ANALYSTS PREDICT IPHONE SALES WILL DECLINE INTO NEXT YEAR

U.S. stocks turned lower on Wednesday as Apple led a decline in technology stocks, offsetting early support from tame U.S. consumer prices data and a rebound in oil prices.

The iPhone maker's shares fell 2 percent, extending its losses for the fifth straight day.

A raft of profit warnings from Apple's suppliers has fueled investor concerns that iPhone sales, in terms of volume, have hit a wall.

Guggenheim Partners analyst Robert Cihra downgraded Apple shares, and predicted iPhone sales will drop by 5 percent in 2019.

Scroll down for video

Apple led a decline in technology stocks on Wednesday, offsetting early support from tame U.S. consumer prices data and a rebound in oil prices. The iPhone maker's shares fell 2 percent File photo

‘Unlike last year [we] do not see ASP (average selling price) increases providing enough offset, with our forecast that blended iPhone ASPs increase only +3%Y/Y, leaving iPhone revenues -2%Y/Y,’ Cihra wrote, according to CNBC.

‘Moreover, we see growing risk of even softer iPhone unit demand, with downside in China, India and other emerging markets, where Apple may need to start considering lower price points.’

UBS also cut its iPhone sales estimate from 75 million to 73.5 million, and reduced its 12-month price target on Apple to $225 from $240.

It comes just after longtime Apple analyst Ming-Chi Kuo cut his forecast for iPhone XR shipments by 30 million units, signaling weak demand for the budget handset, according to MacRumors .

'We have reduced our iPhone XR shipment estimation from 100mn units to 70mn during the new product lifecycle (4Q18 - 3Q19),' Kuo said in a note to investors.

Apple wasn't the only firm to take a hit.

The S&P technology index was down 0.8 percent, hurt by losses in Microsoft Corp and Adobe Inc .

Markets earlier got a boost from data that showed U.S. consumer prices increased 0.3 percent in October amid a rise in gasoline and rental costs, but were in line with expectations.

The S&P energy index which had risen in morning trade on a rebound in oil prices, following a 7 percent plunge on Tuesday, also gave up gains.

BATTERYGATE COMES TO THE IPHONE X The row over Apple's decision to slow down the performance of iPhones has resurfaced after the firm revealed its latest iOS update brings the controversial 'throttling' feature to iPhones bought just a year ago. The firm, which was hit by a huge customer backlash after the 'batterygate' throttling was first revealed, has previously said there was no need to bring the 'performance management feature' to its latest phones. However, the release notes for iOS 12.1, released on Tuesday, revealed Apple has brought the controversial feature to the iPhone X, iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus - which were released just a year ago. To check if Apple is throttling your phone, go to Settings > Battery > Battery Health. It will show the exact amount of degradation on your battery, and it will tell you if it's being throttled The row led to many accusing Apple of 'built-in obsolescence' that effectively forced users to buy a new phone. As batteries in all phones and gadgets age, they become less effective. Meanwhile, as software becomes more advanced, it puts more of a strain on the battery and processor as the phone ages, and in come cases, this can cause phones to simply shut down. Apple's performance management feature throttles some system components, such as the CPU and the GPU, as the battery degrades over time to prevent the device from randomly shutting down. Previously, this was an automatic feature in every iPhone, but following outrage from users, Apple began giving them the option to turn it off in iOS 11.3. But Apple admitted in the iOS 12.1 release notes that the performance management feature will be turned on for its latest iPhone models - many of which users have only owned for a year or less.

'The markets never really left correction mode and it will be with us for a while, at least till the selling into strengths keeps happening,' said Michael Antonelli, managing director, institutional sales trading at Robert W. Baird in Milwaukee.

An escalating trade war between the United States and China, worries about rising interest rates and slowing corporate profits have stalled gains for U.S. stocks, with the S&P 500 trading about 7 percent below its record level.

At 11:41 a.m. ET the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 159.75 points, or 0.63 percent, at 25,126.74, the S&P 500 was down 16.07 points, or 0.59 percent, at 2,706.11 and the Nasdaq Composite was down 48.96 points, or 0.68 percent, at 7,151.91.

The S&P 500 gained 0.6 percent at the open, reversing later in the day as all the 11 major S&P sectors moved into the red.

'We would think if it were a sustained move higher, volatility coming into the end of year would be lower than 19 or 20,' said Laurence Benedict, founder of Opportunistic Trader.

'People are forgetting that on Monday the market was down 600 points, basically we're trying to stabilize at lower levels.'

The CBOE Volatility index, an indicator of short-term volatility in the stock market, touched more than 1-week high at 21.20 points.

The S&P utilities index fell 1.06 percent after PG&E Corp slumped 22.7 percent on warnings it could face 'significant liability' in excess of its insurance coverage in the event that its equipment was found to have caused the blaze in California.

Snap Inc fell 3 percent after Reuters reported that U.S. regulators have subpoenaed the social media app maker for information about its March 2017 initial public offering.

====== 1551 ========

VIDEO REVEALS APPLE'S NEW $799 IPAD PRO IS 'ABSURDLY EASY' TO BEND AND BREAK IN HALF

A YouTuber has put Apple's new $799 iPad Pro to the test.

After applying a little pressure, JerryRigEverything found that it doesn't take much to snap the iPad Pro in half.

In addition to bending the iPad, host Zack Nelson also tested the durability of the iPad's aluminum back and glass display by scratching them with an X-Acto knife.

Scroll down for video

Nelson said he hoped to see 'realistically how much force the iPad Pro can withstand while it is in your backpack or book bag, or while being accidentally sat on.'

In the video, he bends the slim aluminum and glass device down the middle by gripping near the microphone hole at the bottom of the iPad and where the Apple Pencil is charged at the top.

With seemingly little effort, the iPad Pro splits in half and is visibly damaged.

After the device is snapped in half, the glass comes apart from the iPad's chassis.

This reveals the battery packs and some other components located beneath the display.

Both the 11-inch and 12.9-inch iPad Pros are just 5.9mm thick - a significant upgrade from the prior 12.9-inch model which was 6.9mm thick.

In the video, Nelson bends the iPad Pro down the middle by gripping near the microphone hole at the bottom of the device and where the Apple Pencil is charged at the top

With seemingly little effort, the iPad Pro splits in half and is visibly damaged. Nelson was able to take the iPad apart after bending and breaking it in half, revealing the contents inside

It makes sense, then, that the new iPad Pro's ultra-thin design would make it more susceptible to bending.

That said, many have noted that Apple puts its devices through rigorous durability testing before they officially hit the shelves.

It's also unlikely that many users will attempt to break their device in half like Nelson does in the video.

However, The Verge noted that some users have posted in online forums that their iPads were somewhat bent when they took them out of their packaging.

The 11-inch and 12.9-inch iPad Pros are just 5.9mm thick -- a significant upgrade from the prior 12.9-inch model which was 6.9mm thick. Apple debuted the device at its September event

'Today I realized mine has a slight bend,' one user wrote in the MacRumors forum.

'In less than a week it's bent. Just had it in my backpack after a weekend of travel.

'I'm disappointed on how easily this is able to bend,' he added.

As is customary, iPad owners are recommended to use a case with their device to prevent damage.

====== 1552 ========

WORLD OF LIGHT: SUPER SMASH BROS ULTIMATE STORY MODE REVEALED

At the November 1 Super Smash Bros Ultimate Direct announcement, the creators of the highly-anticipated fighting game revealed a new story mode, World of Light, that would give Avengers: Infinity War’s Thanos a run for his money.

The intro of the trailer for the new story mode revealed all of the Super Smash Bros Ultimate fighters corralling to take on Master Hands.

However, heroes including Mario, Zelda, Sonic and Fox McCloud prove to be no match for the Boss, whose bursts of rainbow light turn all of the fighters into dust.

Almost all of them.

In a reveal that set Twitter alight, just one character was shown left standing after the cataclysmic event—Kirby, the cherubic, pink fan-favourite character who was originally designed as a placeholder.

A new story mode, World of Light, was revealed at the Super Smash Bros Ultimate Direct event

The trailer then shows replicas of all the Super Smash Bros Ultimate fighters being imbued with their corresponding spirits, only for the reanimated versions having sinister, glowing red eyes.

Footage of the gameplay reveals just how important Kirby is to the series and to the story mode. Not only is he the only one to have survived, which led to one Twitter user to describe it as ‘canon’, but he is also the key to freeing all the other 73 fighters, though not before fighting them.

Features hinted at include puzzle tasks, different maps and even skill trees.

The game’s creator, Masahiro Sakurai said that World of Light is ‘nothing like what we came up with for the Subspace Emissary mode’. The main distinction is how World of Light explains Super Smash Bros Ultimate’s other new mode: Spirits.

Spirits Mode replaces the Trophies and allows fighters to power up their abilities using characteristics and features of other Super Smash Bros Ultimate characters. Spirits feature simultaneously in their own mode and features in the story campaign.

World of Light explains how the characters ended up being spirits in the first place.

In Spirits Mode, spirits can interact with the fighter and each other to create different fighting conditions that shift depending on the enemy.

There are primary spirits and support spirits that can mix in numerous combinations. Spirits are won through Spirit Battles that involve a roulette in which players have to snatch them for the fighters.

The trailer for World of Light also featured a new version of the Super Smash Bros Ultimate theme song that has lyrics.

Super Smash Bros Ultimate is out on Nintendo Switch on December 7, 2018.

====== 1553 ========

PORNHUB NOTICED A RED DEAD REDEMPTION 2 SPIKE BEFORE GAME’S RELEASE

Rockstar Games' Red Dead Redemption 2 is so big it’s even coming up in Pornhub searches.

After a long, eight-year wait, the sequel to 2010 Red Dead Redemption was released at the end of October.

The game is set 12 years prior to the original and follows Arthur Morgan, an outlaw who is part of the notorious Dutch van der Linde gang, as he tries to survive and thrive in the unforgiving West.

Red Dead Redemption 2 immediately made a huge impact, receiving rave reviews and making over $725 million in its opening weekend, becoming the most pre-ordered full game ever on PlayStation Network in the process.

The highly anticipated Rockstar game Red Dead Redemption 2 came out on Friday October 26

The game even came up as a term in the searches over at Pornhub, where the adult site’s statisticians started to notice mentions of the game days before its October 26 release.

A graph of October shows searches for Red Dead Redemption remain low until October 18, when the first spike occurred after the release of the final trailer and last few details.

Around October 25, searches for Red Dead Redemption skyrocketed faster than Arthur Morgan fleeing from marshals on horseback. Searches increased by a maximum of 731 per cent by Sunday, October 28.

Where it gets really interesting is the knock-on effect the Western videogame had on other Pornhub searches.

‘RDR2’s western setting and subject matter seems to have gotten players all hot and bothered,’ the site wrote in a blog post.

Search terms such as ‘western’, ‘cowboy’ and ‘wild west’ all saw huge spikes over the weekend of the game’s release.

‘Wild West’ saw the biggest spike, jumping by a staggering 745 per cent; ‘Western’ searches rose by 489 per cent; ‘Cowboy’ increased by a comparatively mild 189 per cent.

Along the male-female divide, the game appeared to be much more popular with men.

‘Our statisticians found that men were proportionately 1165 per cent more likely to search for “red dead” when compared to women.’

Unsurprisingly, searches for Red Dead Redemption appear to be a young man’s game as millennials between the ages of 18 and 34 were 93 per cent more likely to search for Red Dead Redemption than those over the age of 35.

====== 1554 ========

PLAYSTATION CLASSIC: NEW GAMES, RELEASE DATE, PRICE AND MORE

In the world dominated by the need to have the latest technological gadgets, PlayStation is kicking it old school by releasing a smaller version of the iconic PlayStation One games console that will come with 20 retro games.

The company is taking a leaf out of Nintendo’s book, which released the NES Classic console, a revamp of its 1980s Nintendo Entertainment System, in 2016 and relaunched again in June 2018.

The NES Classic, which featured games including Mega Man 2, Donkey Kong and Castlevania, was so popular following its 2018 relaunch that it actually outsold all the other major games consoles in June including PlayStation 4, XBox One and Nintendo Switch.

The original PlayStation One became the first games console to sell 100 million units worldwide.

Here is all you need to know about the new PlayStation Classic including what is it, when will it be released, how much will it cost and what games can you play on it.

PlayStation is releasing a modern version of its iconic 1990s PlayStation One games console

When will PlayStation Classic be released?

The PlayStation Classic will be released worldwide on December 3, 2018. The release date is not without meaning.

The original PlayStation One was released on December 3, 1994 and so the Classic is released on its 24th anniversary.

How much will it cost?

In the US, the console will set you back $99.99, while in the UK it will cost £89.99.

Pre-order the PlayStation Classic

You can pre-order the PlayStation Classic in Japan, Europe, the UK and the US. In the UK it can be pre-ordered from Game, Amazon, ShopTo and Smyths.

What games are pre-loaded on it?

PlayStation has now announced the full 20-strong list of games that will come preloaded on the console. These are:

Battle Arena Toshinden

Cool Boarders 2

Destruction Derby

Final Fantasy VII

Grand Theft Auto

Intelligent Qube

Jumping Flash!

Metal Gear Solid

Mr. Driller

Oddworld: Abe’s Oddysee

Rayman

Resident Evil Director’s Cut

Revelations: Persona

Ridge Racer Type 4

Super Puzzle Fighter II Turbo

Syphon Filter

Tekken 3

Tom Clancy’s Rainbow Six

Twisted Metal

Wild Arms

How big is the PlayStation Classic console?

The retro console is 45 percent smaller than the original and can be easily carried in one hand.

PlayStation Classic comes with two controllers that are replicas of the PlayStation One ones

What’s in the box?

The PlayStation Classic comes with two normal-sized controllers, replicas of PS1, and has an HMDI slot, meaning the console can be connected to your TVs.

The console is smaller in part because it doesn’t require a CD drive, with all the games appearing on a software database inside it.

The open button on the console will flick between games and progress is saved on virtual memory cards.

====== 1555 ========

RED DEAD REDEMPTION 2 CHEAT CODES AND THEIR USES REVEALED

Red Dead Redemption II has already taken the video game charts by storm and earned rave reviews from critics.

But what about fans of the blockbuster video game looking for that extra edge while playing? Fortunately for gamers, Forbes has assembled a large and running list of cheat codes for the new game and their uses.

While cheat codes have largely fallen by the wayside in recent years, Rockstar Games is still part of that unapologetic old guard of video game developers who’ve stuck with them even as they’ve gone out of style – and Red Dead Redemption II is no exception to their rule.

The cheat codes for Red Dead Redemption II allow players to obtain new modes of transportation, attain additional weapons, alter their stats and Honor level and more

Here’s a look at all of the known Red Dead Redemption II cheat codes and their uses. The cheat codes usable without a newspaper are signified with an asterisk next to them.

*Keep your dreams simple - Spawns a one-horse Wagon

*I shall be better - Set Deadeye level to 3, allowing for manual painting of targets

*I seek and I find - Set Deadeye level to 5, showing all weak spots

Abundance is the dullest desire - Infinite Ammo

Greed Is American Virtue - Pump-Action Shotgun, Bolt Action Rifle, Mauser Pistol, and Semi-Automatic Pistol all added to inventory

*Death is silence – Adds all stealth weapons to inventory

*A simple life, a beautiful death - Basic weapons all added to inventory

*A fool on command – Causes player to become drunk

Vanity. All is Vanity - Awards all outfits

Keep your dreams light - Spawns a Buggy

Virtue unearned is not virtue - Sets your Honor high with a bunch of unearned virtue

*Run! Run! Run! - Spawns a Racehorse

You are a beast built for war - Spawns a War Horse

*Better than my dog - Infinite horse whistle distance

You seek more than the world offers - Fill and fortify all status meters

*You want punishment - Increases Wanted Level

*You Want Freedom - Decreases Wanted Level

The Lucky be strong evermore - Grants infinite stamina

*Balance. All Is Balance - Sets Honor to neutral

Would you be happier as a clown? - Spawns a Circus Wagon

*You Flourish Before You Die - Fills all status meters

You long for sight but see nothing - Reveals map

Red Dead Redemption 2 release date

The video game was released on Friday, October 26 and is now available to play worldwide.

How to play Red Dead Redemption 2

Red Dead Redemption II can currently be played on both PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.

What is Red Dead Redemption 2?

Red Dead Redemption II is an action-adventure game featuring an Old West theme.

Developed and published by Rockstar Games, the video game is the third entrant into the popular Red Dead video game franchise, following 2004’s Red Dead Revolver and 2010’s Red Dead Redemption and its expansion pack Undead Nightmare.

Serving as a prequel to Red Dead Redemption, the game is set in 1899 and revolves around its main character Arthur Morgan, a fictional outlaw in the Old West.

Released on October 26, 2018, Red Dead Redemption II has praise from critics for its vast open world environment, engaging storyline, excellent writing and striking graphics.

====== 1556 ========

THE INAUGURAL EPREMIER LEAGUE ESPORTS TOURNAMENT KICKS OFF NEXT YEAR

The Premier League has announced it is teaming up with EA Sports to introduce the ePremier League, an esports tournament kicking off next year.

It will give FIFA 19 players across the country a chance to represent actual Premier League clubs as they compete to reach the ePL Final in March, 2019.

The finals, one for Xbox and one for PlayStation, will take place in London and be broadcast live on Sky Sports and Premier League social media channels.

The ePremier League is an official esports collaboration between EA and the Premier League

EA Sports' new game FIFA 19 came out last week, and millions around the world are playing it

Premier League stars are no stranger to FIFA and esports. A lot of them play, and take pride in the ratings they have in the game.

Plus, several players, such as Christian Fuchs and Mesut Ozil, are getting into esports in a big way with their own teams.

The tournament will take place over three months, starting in January next year. However, hopeful players will be able to sign up for the ePL starting from December 3.

In January, the online qualification tournament begins. On each platform, players will compete in a cup format to find the top 16 finalists for Xbox and PlayStation.

From February to March, the top 16 players for both consoles will face each other in a half-day tournament to determine the club representative for each platform.

All 20 Premier League clubs will have a live playoff round, giving two competitors a final shot to advance to the ePL final.

The final will take place over two days, from March 28-29.

The tournament will take place over three months, with online qualifiers, playoffs and the final

FIFA has been growing as an esport over the past few years, with more ways to compete

'EA SPORTS is a fantastic partner for the Premier League and we are looking forward to launching ePremier League with them,' said Richard Masters, Premier League Managing Director.

'We know that millions of fans play FIFA and this new esports competition will provide our clubs with an exciting opportunity to engage with them. We can't wait to get started with the opening online rounds in January 2019.'

Existing FIFA esports professionals will be eyeing the ePL with particular interest, as the tournament will also grant FIFA 19 Global Series Points, which are used to qualify for the Global Series Playoffs on the way to the eWorld Cup.

This year, the winner of the eWorld Cup, Mosad 'Msdossary' Aldossary, took home £200,000 in prize money from the final, which was held at London's O2 Arena.

There's no word yet on what the prize money for the ePremier League will be.

The winner of this year's FIFA eWorld Cup, nicknamed Msdossary, won £200,000 in prizes

'The Premier League's global reach and intensely passionate fanbase pushes EA SPORTS FIFA competition to unprecedented heights as we accelerate esports growth through traditional sports,' said Todd Sitrin, SVP and GM of the EA Competitive Gaming Division.

'Through the ePL, this partnership carves a critical path forward in expanding competition not only for players, but for the hundreds of millions watching Premier League games who now can support their club on the virtual and the traditional pitch.'

Brent Koning, EA SPORTS FIFA Competitive Gaming Commissioner, said: 'The inclusion of the ePL will undoubtedly enhance the player and spectator experience.

'Having the most popular football league in the world commit to competitive gaming in this expansive fashion we believe only accelerates the community's enthusiasm for both FIFA Competitive Gaming and the Premier League.'

West Ham United are also getting in on the esports act with their own FIFA 19 tournament. Along with partner Basset & Gold, there will be a £25,000 prize pool for the tournament, the finals of which will be held at the London Stadium on October 28.

====== 1557 ========

MICROSOFT TESTING NEW GAME-STREAMING SERVICE

Microsoft is testing a new game streaming service called Project xCloud that is designed to work across PCs, consoles and mobile devices, the company has revealed.

Instead of requiring users to buy a console, it will run games on Microsoft's servers, streaming them to devices.

Public trials for Project xCloud would begin in 2019, Microsoft said.

Scroll down for video

Instead of requiring a console, the new service will run games on Microsoft's servers, allowing users to play on everything from a phone to a desktop PC

'Ultimately, Project xCloud is about providing gamers — whether they prefer console or PC — new choices in when and where they play, while giving mobile-only players access to worlds, characters and immersive stories they haven't been able to experience before,' Microsoft said.

The service will compete with Google's 'Project Stream', a game streaming service that is being tested by the Alphabet Inc unit in partnership with game publisher Ubisoft .

Microsoft's xCloud will also face competition from other popular streaming services including Nvidia's GeForce Now and Sony's PlayStation Now among others.

'Today, the games you play are very much dictated by the device you are using,' said Microsoft.

'Project xCloud’s state-of-the-art global game-streaming technology will offer you the freedom to play on the device you want without being locked to a particular device, empowering YOU, the gamers, to be at the center of your gaming experience.'

The firm plans to begin public tests next year, and is already testing the system internally.

'We are testing Project xCloud today. The test runs on devices (mobile phones, tablets) paired with an Xbox Wireless Controller through Bluetooth, and it is also playable using touch input,' Kareem Choudhry, corporate vice president, gaming cloud, said.

Project xCloud will have the capability to make game streaming possible on 4G networks, Microsoft says.

'Currently, the test experience is running at 10 megabits per second.

'Our goal is to deliver high-quality experiences at the lowest possible bitrate that work across the widest possible networks, taking into consideration the uniqueness of every device and network.'

====== 1558 ========

SPECIAL EDITION DIABLO 3 BUNDLE FOR NINTENDO SWITCH ANNOUNCED

Nintendo Switch gamers will soon be able to venture into the grim fantasy world of Diablo with a trove of new treasures.

Nintendo has just announced that the Nintendo Switch Diablo III: Eternal Collection bundle will include a number of special items.

Specifically, the bundle will include an exclusive console and dock featuring Diablo III artwork, download code and carrying case.

The Diablo III Eternal Collection bundle for Nintendo Switch will include updates and items

In addition, the Diablo III: Eternal Collection bundle will also include the original version of the video game, all game content updates, the Reaper of Souls expansion pack and the Rise of the Necromancer content pack.

It’s also slated to include a number of items related specifically to Nintendo, including a Tri-Force portrait frame, the Legend of Ganondorf cosmetic armor set, the Echoes of the Mask cosmetic wings and a Chicken pet.

The news comes at an exciting time for Diablo fans, as recent leaks have suggested that the title to a new entry in the Diablo franchise may have been revealed in Blizzard Entertainment’s online merchandise shop.

In the United States, the special bundle will be available only at Gamestop.

The Diablo III: Eternal Collection bundle will be available for $359.99 (£273.74) and be released on Friday, November 2.

Diablo 3 is getting its own Nintendo Switch bundle https://t.co/osB6PDqP1X pic.twitter.com/idKAuyxoGF — Polygon (@Polygon) October 15, 2018

What is Diablo 3?

Diablo III is an action-role playing game set in the dark fantasy world of Sanctuary published and developed by Blizzard Entertainment.

The successor to 1996’s Diablo and 2000’s Diablo II, the game was released on May 15, 2012 to critical acclaim and record-breaking sales, selling a staggering 3.5 million copies in its first day alone and 6.3 million copies in just its first week.

The game’s expansion pack, Diablo III: Reaper of Souls, was released on March 25, 2014 while a downloadable content pack, Diablo III: Rise of the Necromancer, was released on June 27, 2017.

As of June 2015, both Diablo III and its expansion pack have sold a staggering 30 million units worldwide.

====== 1559 ========

HOW TO GET BETTER AT FIFA 19: TIPS FROM PRO PLAYER HASHTAG RYAN

Ryan Pessoa, aka Hashtag Ryan, is one of the world’s best FIFA players. He’s signed to esports team Hashtag United, and he’s also an official Red Bull athlete.

I’ve played a game of FIFA against him before. ‘Pretty solid’ and ‘actually decent’ were the phrases he used to describe my play, as he banged three past my keeper in quick succession. I’m pretty sure he was going easy on me too.

Pessoa was at London’s Red Bull Gaming Sphere last week to host a FIFA 19 workshop where he’d be answering questions and providing his best tips and tricks for the new game. Luckily I didn’t have to embarrass myself by playing him once again.

Hashtag Ryan appeared on Up Your Game to give his tips and tricks for the new FIFA game

He went over everything from custom tactics, to attacking, defending, as well as set pieces

Instead, I caught up with him before he went live on the stream. There are plenty of new changes to FIFA this year, although they might not be immediately obvious. I asked him to give me the rundown on the most important new features of FIFA 19.

Timed Finishing

‘The first thing is to practice timed finishing,’ he tells me. ‘It adds an element to shooting that was never in the game before.’

In FIFA 19, if you press the shot button to start powering up, and then press the button again the split second before your player strikes the ball, you’ll get a bonus to accuracy and power. At the start, you’ll literally have to be watching either the bar, or your player’s leg as it moves towards the ball. But Pessoa says you’ll eventually get the knack down.

‘The first thing I did was go on amateur difficulty and just practice and practice.’ The game has only been out for a couple of weeks, but he’s already got hundreds of games under his belt.

Attacking tips

Old attacking tricks work too. The finesse shot is still very good (hold in RB/R1), and in the build up, you can use the same tactic from last year. When you’re on the ball, you can make one of your nearby players go on a run (L1/LB). If you quickly press the button to bring them back from the run (R1/RB), a huge gap opens up, left by the defender that went with him. It’s pretty easy to make space and progress up the pitch this way.

FIFA 19 has been out for a couple of weeks, and millions are trying to figure out how to improve

Controlling the goalkeeper

The next new addition is the ability to manually control your goalkeeper using the right stick.

‘If they cut inside they’re probably going to shoot across the face of goal, so practice when to move your goalkeeper.’ However, Pessoa also notes that good players will know you’ll be moving your keeper in situations like these, and shoot the other way. Much like on the real pitch, scoring a goal is often about mind games and being unpredictable.

Set pieces

Next up, set pieces. In FIFA 19 so far, this is where games can be won.

‘I’ve scored more from corners than penalties, getting a corner is basically a penalty,’ says Pessoa.

It turns out if you can get free at the near post, corners are almost impossible to defend. Headers are viable, but surprisingly, Pessoa usually goes for a bicycle kick by holding in the left trigger and pressing the shoot button. During the stream he showed clips of this in action, and it works a surprisingly high percentage of the time.

New features this year include timed finishing and the ability to manually move your keeper

Defending

As for defending, you’re better off letting the game do it for you. ‘If you control your centre backs, you’re in for trouble,’ says Pessoa. Instead, you should control your defensive midfielders and try to cut out passing lanes manually. If you’ve got a fast attacking midfielder, you can even bring them back for more support. You can leave the rest up to the AI.

The question of who to put in your Ultimate Team is always on the minds of FIFA players. We’re right at the start of the new game, so no one’s team is top tier just yet. However, Pessoa’s is already well on the way, with the likes of Icons Rio Ferdinand and Frank Rijkaard in defense and Kylian Mbappe on the wing.

He secured 30 wins out of 30 games in the first Weekend League of FIFA 19, and tells me next on his shopping list are the Patrick Vieira and Ruud Gullit Icon cards.

This year, he wants to win it all. He tells me he had a disappointing year in terms of results with FIFA 18, but it hasn’t killed his passion. In fact, he’s hungrier now more than ever. ‘Right now the fuel to succeed for me on FIFA is unparalleled, I’d be shocked if somebody has the same fire I have.’

With the announcement of the ePremier League and more FIFA tournaments popping up all the time, there’s never been a better time to try and succeed in FIFA esports. Ryan Pessoa will be competing at the top, and if you put the time in, maybe you could be too.

The full live stream containing all of his tips can be found on the Red Bull Esports Twitch channel.

====== 1560 ========

INSIDE FIFA'S GOLDRUSH: HOW PLAYERS ARE MAKING SERIOUS MONEY

The world’s greatest football players gathered in London last month at The Best FIFA Football Awards. Among them was an 18 year old man from Saudi Arabia named Mosad Aldossary, rubbing shoulders with the likes of Luka Modric and Sergio Ramos.

He wasn’t up for an award, but he’s most certainly at the top of his game. ‘Msdossary,’ as he’s known in the esports world, won the FIFA eWorld Cup at the O2 Arena in London in August.

From that one tournament alone, he bagged $250,000 (£191,000), but Msdossary isn’t the richest or the most famous of FIFA players out there. Not by a longshot.

Msdossary (right), real name Mosad Aldossary, won the FIFA eWorld Cup in London this year

Msdossary was recently at The FIFA Best awards, rubbing shoulders with Sergio Ramos and co.

The latest iteration of the wildly popular FIFA franchise was released in September. YouTube collective Sidemen, led by KSI (centre) make serious money playing FIFA and other games

That accolade goes to the FIFA YouTubers and Twitch streamers. Our parents told us to stop playing video games all day, but these are the people who didn’t listen. Now, they’re making serious money.

WHO IS KSI? Real name Olajide Olatunji, KSI is a YouTube sensation. Since starting out making small FIFA videos, he's now got nearly 20 million subscribers and reportedly earns up to £2.9 million per year. He has several rap EPs, he's starred in a movie alongside fellow YouTuber Caspar Lee, and is now the 'YouTube boxing champion,' having defeated Joe Weller and drawn with Logan Paul in the ring. KSI is part of the Sidemen, a group of British YouTubers. They all drive luxury cars, travel around the world in style, and four of them live in a mansion together.

That’s not a reason to quit school and sit in front of the PlayStation or Xbox all day though. These young stars of the Internet are very good at what they do, whether it’s simply playing FIFA or writing and editing videos. They’re also incredibly good at self promotion.

Take KSI, real name Olajide Olatunji, as an example, one of the most famous British YouTubers. He started out on YouTube in 2011. He now has nearly 20 million subscribers and his videos have achieved over 4 billion views. These days, his occupation is listed on Wikipedia as: ‘YouTuber, rapper, video game commentator, comedian, actor, amateur boxer.’

He’s released rap albums. He’s starred in a movie. You may have seen his fight with fellow YouTuber Logan Paul, which had over one million pay per view buys, and many more millions watched it online afterwards.

KSI reportedly earns £2.9 million per year from sponsorships, merchandise sales, and advertising revenue, and it was FIFA which made him famous. Going from making small goal and skill move highlight videos, to comedy skits, including a period of controversy - something which it seems is becoming a norm for the Internet’s biggest names (see: Logan Paul) - KSI is now a global superstar.

Here's the custom Lamborghini KSI had made a few years ago, he even made a song about it

KSI and the Sidemen live in a luxury mansion that has been dubbed 'The Sidemen House'

Inside the Sidemen's multi million-pound mansion there's a swimming pool, gym, and more

He’s part of a group of YouTubers called the Sidemen, most of whom also made a name for themselves playing FIFA and other video games. Four of them live in a luxury mansion, complete with roof terrace, gym, swimming pool, and a huge garden. They drive cars like Lamborghinis, Audis, and Aston Martins.

HOW TO MAKE MONEY FROM YOUTUBE YouTube creators make money through advertising revenue from adverts placed around uploaded content. Most YouTubers make money by signing up to the 'YouTube partners program'. YouTube places ads before and during your videos and split the revenue 55-45% in the users favour. It's hard to put an exact number on how much people make but uploaders make roughly between £1 to £3 for every 1,000 views they generate, although the biggest names will earn more. KSI has logged 4bn views since he started uploading The biggest stars also have sponsorship deals and merchandise sales on top of their YouTube earnings, and will be making millions per year.

The likes of Msdossary and Spencer ‘Gorilla’ Ealing, last year’s FIFA World Champion, are extremely good at FIFA, and it’s a full time job to be this good. Esports pros are signed to teams, and the best players are on big contracts.

Msdossary won £200,000 from the FIFA eWorld Cup, but that was just one tournament, there are many more throughout the year. Gorilla had a pretty disappointing year by his standards, but he still took home over £30,000 in prize money alone.

It’s also a full time job being a successful YouTuber. A video which is just a few minutes long might take hours, or even days to film and edit.

And people love watching them do it. Whether they’re watching Gorilla streaming his top tier FIFA play, or watching Harry ‘wroetoshaw’ Lewis opening packs of players in FIFA Ultimate Team, it’s a form of entertainment.

Just like people tune in to watch Lionel Messi run rings around his opponents, they’ll load up a Twitch stream to watch top FIFA players do the same thing. Just like people tune in to watch a comedy sketch show on TV, they’ll load up a YouTube video and watch a FIFA player joke around with their audience.

Now, the Premier League and EA Sports have teamed up to introduce the ePremier League. The best FIFA players in the country will have the chance to represent the real world clubs, and earn money doing it. More avenues for players to earn money doing the thing they love are opening up all the time.

Msdossary won the FIFA eWorld Cup, taking home $250,000 from just that one tournament

To earn money you're going to have to put the time in, it's a full time job being good at FIFA

THE FUT COIN BLACK MARKET If you want to get new players for your Ultimate Team in FIFA, you need to spend FUT coins. You can either buy card packs containing random players and hope to get lucky, or you can buy players directly on the auction house. Understandably, players need a lot of coins in order to make the best team. However it takes a long time to earn them in-game. So, websites sell coins directly for real money, but it's not a practice looked upon favourably by EA Sports. You can get 20,000 coins for just a few pounds, but to get the best players, you're going to have to spend big. For example, getting Lionel Messi, who can cost anywhere from 700,000 to 1,000,000, it might cost you upwards of £100.

However, you don’t have to be famous to earn money playing FIFA. You don’t even have to be that good at the game.

Game makers EA Sports are firmly against the practice, but there are ways you can earn real world money by selling your Ultimate Team coins on the FIFA black market. It’s big business, and although EA try to combat it, it’s almost impossible.

These are websites out there where you can buy coins to add to your FIFA account. There are also websites where you can sell coins. If you’re lucky enough to pack a Cristiano Ronaldo, an Icon, or another extremely rare card, most people would use them in game.

Others might sell them on the FIFA auction house, and then offload the huge amount of coins for real world cash. You can even sell your entire FIFA account on eBay if you’re done with it. You’re not going to become a millionaire this way, but it’s pretty easy to make a profit if you’re willing to bend and break some rules.

But to make the big money, you’re going to have to put in the time, the dedication, and maybe get a bit lucky along the way.

====== 1561 ========

FORTNITE SOLO TOURNAMENT: DATES, RULES, PRIZE AND MORE DETAILS

Fortnite gamers will soon be able to test their mettle in the hit game’s first solo tournament, sure to feature plenty of the intense, no-holds-barred gameplay the video game is known for.

Reportedly known as the Alpha Tournament, the upcoming Fortnite solo tournament will feature a new matchmaking system and be broadly similar to the popular Solo Showdown ranked playing mode implemented back in May.

Here’s all you need to know about Fortnite’s first solo tournament, including the start and end dates, rules, matchmaking system, prize and information about the video game itself.

Fortnite players will very soon be able to duke it out in the video game's first solo tournament

Fortnite solo tournament start and end times

The tournament is slated to run from 7pm EST until 10pm EST on Tuesday, October 16 (5pm BST until 8pm BST for the UK tournament times) and ultimately conclude on Sunday, October 21.

Fortnite solo tournament rules

Scoring will work similar to what Epic Games uses for professional level play, mixing victory and elimination-based scoring to determine the final match standings.

Fortnite solo tournament matchmaking

For its first solo tournament, a new skill-based system will be implemented for Fortnite.

Eschewing the old matchmaking system which saw players matched up by which platform they use, the new system will see players matched up based on their performance in the tournament.

The new system is ultimately designed to make matches fairer and give less-skilled gamers a better shot at winning.

Fortnite solo tournament prize

For reaching 20 points, the reward will be a ‘shiny pin,’ likely a new category of items or banner.

As of yet, the exact details of the reward, including whether it will display on players’ in-game avatar, haven’t been revealed by Epic Games.

What is Fortnite?

Fortnite is a free-to-play action-shooter video game developed and published by Epic Games.

Boasting a player base of a staggering 125 million people worldwide, the game was first released in September 2017 with its popular battle royale mode being added shortly afterwards in September 2017.

Fortnite Battle Royale sees 100 players battled in intense, fast-paced matches that mix shooter gameplay with scavenging for gear and the ability to construct fortifications on the map.

The hit video game is currently available to play on PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, Windows, MacOS, iOS and Android.

====== 1562 ========

THIS BRITISH-DESIGNED £90K ELECTRIC ARC VECTOR MOTORBIKE IS A GLIMPSE INTO THE FUTURE OF RIDING

This is the new Arc Vector - a £90,000 electric bike that's been designed in the UK and been lauded as the most advanced motorcycle ever made.

Built by a team of engineers in Coventry, it has a flyweight carbon structure, performance parts lifted directly from MotoGP and uses an electric power cell that produces 399 units of voltage.

That means it can rip from stationary to 62mph in 3.1 seconds and onto a top speed of 120mph for a 'realistic range' of 200 miles.

But more impressive is that it comes with a jacket that alerts the rider to dangers around them and a helmet that projects vital information, such as their speed, revs and a rear view camera, on the visor to make you feel like Iron Man on a bike.

Riding into the future: This is the ARC Vector - a £90,000 electric superbike aimed at rakish, trailblazing and eco-conscious millionaires

It comes with a high-tech helmet that displays vital information to the rider on the move directly from the bike. You could say it's the closest thing to feeling like Iron Man on two wheels

Nudging close to £100,000 it's not cheap, though it is said to be aimed at rakish, trailblazing and eco-conscious millionaires.

It's the first model to be produced by Arc - a team of top engineering specialists based in the UK's high-tech automotive heartland in the midlands - who have been likened to Marvel's superhero team by the company's founder.

It has been revealed the the motorcycling world at the biggest European show of the year - Milan's EICMA event.

Likely to be the biggest talking point in the Italian fashion capital, the bike itself is a work of art.

The lightweight chassis and carbon components used for the rear and - unusual - front swing-arms mean this machine - even with a bulky electric powerplant onboard - weighs just 220kg and used exotic parts such as Ohlins suspension, Brembo brakes and BST wheels like you'd find on Valentino Rossi's MotoGP bike.

While the quote on range is 200 miles, that's for urban use. Arc says it's more like 120 miles if you're riding on the motorway - though even that is around 30 per cent more than comparable electric motorcycles already on the market.

The bike uses an electric power cell that produces 399 units of voltage. That means it can accelerate from 0-62mph in 3.1 seconds and onto a top speed of 120mph

The Zenith helmet displays speed, revs and sat-nav directions on the small screen fitted in front of the visor so the rider has all the vital information in eye-sight - similar to the Iron Man helmet from the famous Marvel films

The Origin jacket vibrates to alert the rider if there are dangers around them or if they're riding too fast

Buyers (who can afford one) will get their own personal electric charge point installed at their desired premises. Plug the vector in and it will charge in 45 minutes - even if you use a public quick charge point in towns or at service stations.

But while the motorbike is the key component, it's the riding gear that sparks more interest.

The Zenith helmet has been designed in collaboration with British company Hedon and has the speedo, sat-nav and ancillary graphics projected onto the rider's visor so they can keep their eyes affixed to the road.

A live rear-view camera is encased in the calfskin-trimmed helmet, giving the user the ability to see what's behind them without ever having to turn their head.

‹ Slide me › A live rear-view camera is encased in the calfskin-trimmed helmet. This gives the user the ability to see what's behind them without ever having to turn their head

Tailored in collaboration with UK bike-protection firm Knox, the jacket also plays music and can tell the rider how close to the limit of the motorcycle's capabilities they are based on factors such as how hard they brake or open the throttle

The bespoke jacket, called Origin, has Human Machine Interface (HMI) technology applied too.

It's fitted with technology that alerts the rider of potential hazards as well as providing dynamic performance-based feedback with smartphone-style vibrating notifications.

Tailored in collaboration with UK bike-protection firm Knox, the jacket can also play music as well as tell the rider how close to the limit of the motorcycle's capabilities they are based on factors such as how hard they brake or open the throttle.

In short, you'll feel like Tony Stark riding to your next Avengers mission.

Much of the bike is made from carbon-fibre or lightweight carbon composites to negate the bulky weight of the electric power plant

The carbon fibre front and rear swing-arms are stunning and quite unusual. Traditionally, motorcycles have fork front suspension, though swing-arm front units have been used in the past, such as the 1993 Yamaha GTS1000

The bike features exotic parts such as an Ohlins rear damper, Brembo brakes and BST wheels like you'd find on Valentino Rossi's MotoGP bike

Arc's founder Mark Truman, who formerly worked for Jaguar Land Rover, said: 'We felt that there was more one could get out of motorcycling which no one was tapping into.

'This is about using technology to strip back the experience of riding a bike.

''The HUD and haptics of the helmet and jacket work in tandem with the Vector bike to remove distractions and emphasise the joy of riding.'

Truman, 42, a purist biker and technology evangelist, has assembled an engineering dream team and put in motion an ambitious business plan.

While the quote on range is 200 miles, that's for urban use. Arc says it's more like 120 miles if you're riding on the motorway - though even that is around 30 per cent more than comparable electric motorcycles already on the market

Avenger on two wheels: Riding this bike will make you feel like Tony Stark talking to the tech in the Iron Man helmet referred to as J.A.R.V.I.S - short for Just A Rather Very Intelligent System

The ARC Vector comes with its own personal electric charge point that can be installed at the owner's desired premises. Plug the vector in and it will charge in 45 minutes - even if you use a public quick charge point in towns or at service stations

Arc's staff have worked in senior positions within Aston Martin, KTM, Ducati, Triumph, Jaguar Land Rover, MotoGP and Formula One. Pioneers in their field, they've designed vehicles for James Bond movies, emergency rescue units and niche electric hypercar companies.

'With Vector, we've set out to build the best performance electric motorcycle,' explains Truman.

'With electric vehicles in general, the powertrain weighs a lot.

'This really can't be avoided if you want capacity, distance and performance.

'So, it was about stripping everything back and using a lot of exotic, lightweight materials, such as carbon-fibre.

'The chassis and battery module had to be one, and because of this approach we've been able to reduce the weight as much as possible to achieve the performance we wanted.

'The design brief was; if the term 'cafe racer' was going to be coined in ten years' time, what would that look like?'

====== 1563 ========

NEW JLR TECHNOLOGY MEANS YOU WON'T HAVE TO STOP AT TRAFFIC LIGHTS AGAIN

New Jaguar Land Rover technology being trialled on British roads could mean drivers never see a red light again.

Using a Vehicle-to-Infrastructure (V2X) system built into the car, it connects to traffic lights and tells the driver when they're going to turn green and suggests the best speed to approach so they never have to come to a standstill.

The technology, called Green Light Optimal Speed Advisory (GLOSA) will help free up traffic flow in cities, improve road safety and potentially help you to live longer, the British car maker claims.

Never see red again: Jaguar Land Rover is testing new technology that will help motorists avoid having to stop at traffic lights ever again

The system is already in use and being put to the test on public roads by the vehicle manufacturer.

It has fitted the V2X system to one of its Jaguar F-Pace SUVs as part of a £20million collaborative research project to determine the usefulness of the start-of-the-art tech.

If the technology was to be used on a wider scale, experts suggest it will reduce the number of incidents at junctions as fewer motorists will race to beat a red light or brake harshly when the lights are changing.

By eliminating excessive acceleration and deceleration and limiting the amount of time cars stop with their engines idling, Jaguar Land Rover says it will also be an effective tool to reduce vehicle emissions.

Oriol Quintana-Morales, connected technology research engineer at the vehicle maker, said: 'This cutting-edge technology will radically reduce the time we waste at traffic lights.

'It has the potential to revolutionise driving by creating safe, free-flowing cities that take the stress out of commuting.

'Our research is motivated by the chance to make future journeys as comfortable and stress-free as possible for all our customers.'

Vehicle-to-Infrastructure (V2X) technology allows cars to 'talk' to traffic lights over the internet

The system notifies the driver how fast they need to travel to avoid a red light. A window green window on the speedo suggests this is the - legal - speed you need to travel at the get through the lights before they change

The connected technology is part of the British car maker's ongoing trial of autonomous vehicle systems, which commenced on Coventry roads at the end of 2017.

It hopes these tests will further the understanding about how self-driving vehicles interact with other cars and road infrastructure, and how models can replicate human behaviour whilst driving to make roads safer when motorists transition from current cars to autonomous models.

Trials have been ongoing throughout 2018, with tests also taking place in Milton Keynes as well as Coventry.

The brand said the test mules are using the new tech alongside current sophisticated systems already available in its models, which it calls 'Advanced Driver Assistance' features, in a bid to slash the amount of time commuters spend in traffic breathing in toxic fumes.

Hidden toll sitting in traffic has on your health The average UK worker spends over 200 hours in their car commuting, according to recent studies The average UK worker spends over 200 hours in their car travelling to and from work every year, according to recent research by car leasing firm LeaseCar.uk. Taking out holiday allowance, bank holidays and weekends, full-time employees will usually spend around 233 days at work each year, and around 44 years in employment between the ages of 21 and 65. With the average commute taking around 54 minutes each day, according to the BBC, this means that Britons spend the equivalent of a whopping 384 days of their lives getting to and from the office alone. In that time, motorists are being exposed to high levels of pollution, which are said to be more toxic in cars than outside. In fact, one US study in 2016 claimed that exposure can be up to 140 per cent higher inside vehicles depending on traffic conditions. The airbubbl is the world's first in-car air purifier that can remove up to 95% of dangerous toxins from inside a car in less than 12 minutes Airlabs, the manufacturer of the world's first in-car air purifier called the airbubbl that's now available on Amazon for £299.99, the air pollution inside vehicles is the equivalent of passively smoking 180 cigarettes each year for the average driver or passenger who sits in traffic for an hour each day. Worryingly, many of Britain's most popular car's air-conditioning systems have been shown to be ineffective at filtering toxic particles and pollutants in cars. A recent in-car test on some of London's most polluted streets showed that the airbubbl removes more than 95 per cent of dangerous nitrogen dioxide in under 12 minutes.

How else with Jaguar Land Rover's new technology help drivers?

The wider trial of this latest technology could reduce collisions and provide practical solutions for motorists.

For example, the Intersection Collision Warning feature alerts drivers when it is unsafe to proceed at a junction.

The technology informs drivers if other cars are approaching from another road and can suggest the order in which cars should proceed at a junction, similar to how autonomous cars will need to communicate with each other if the vehicle network becomes entirely driverless.

Jaguar Land Rover has also addressed time lost to searching for a parking space by providing real-time information of available spaces to drivers and developed an Emergency Vehicle Warning to alert motorists when a fire engine, police car or ambulance is approaching.

Jaguar Land Rover is also testing a new safety system that's aimed at reducing the number of accidents at junctions

‹ Slide me › The JLR tech can connect to any other car that has an internet connection so both vehicles know each other's whereabouts at a junction. The system them decides which car has right of way

The trials are part of the £20million government-funded project, UK Autodrive, which has helped accelerate the development of Jaguar Land Rover's future self-driving and connected technology.

As well as strengthening the Midlands' position as a hub of mobility innovation. Britain's biggest car maker, headquartered in Coventry, is working on connected technology as part of its pledge to deliver zero accidents, zero congestion and zero emissions.

Connected technology will link the vehicle to everything around it, allowing seamless, free-flowing traffic that will pave the way for delivering self-driving vehicles.

====== 1564 ========

LONDON RESEARCH INSTITUTE THREATENS TO MOVE MEETINGS OUTSIDE BRITAIN AFTER BREXIT

Seventeen academics have been been unable to attend a leading conference after being refused a visa from the British government.

The head of the leading London-based research institute hosting the meeting has threatened to move future meetings out of Britain to make them more accessible.

Peter Piot, director of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, wrote to UK Home Secretary Sajid Javid expressing his concern after delegates from Africa and Asia were refused visas.

He condemned the rebuttal of the visas and said such blockades represent a 'significant threat' to the UK's goal of becoming a 'global hub' for health and science after Brexit.

Scroll down for video

Peter Piot, director of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (pictured), wrote to Sajid Javid condemning the rebuttal of visas and said such blockades represent a 'significant threat' to the UK's becoming a 'global hub' for health and science after Brexit

Nearly 900 participants from more than 70 countries and over 80 nationalities are attending the conference which is discussing gender inequality in global health leadership.

It tackles the global issue of less than 25 per cent of influential leadership positions being occupied by women despite making up 75 per cent of the industry's workforce.

In his letter to the Home Secretary, Professor Piot writes: 'This conference is a forum to promote international debate and to nurture new talent.

'The denial of these visas not only excludes experts and emerging experts from low- and middle-income countries from participating in these global dialogues around health and health equity but it also precludes the UK from benefiting from this important knowledge exchange.

'If the UK wants to establish itself as a global hub for health and science, the current visa restrictions represent a significant threat to that goal.

'Our School is already considering moving the locations of many of our large international meetings to outside of the UK so that valued global experts can participate more easily.

'Unfortunately, the current restrictive criteria for granting short-term business visas can only deter organisations from holding future conferences in the UK at a crucial time when the UK should be "open for business".'

The World Health Organisation (WHO) expressed similar concerns last month when another bureaucratic block prevented academics entering the UK.

Organisers of the Global Symposium on Health Systems Research built a dossier of issues faced by foreign academics.

Ten highly-qualified individuals were invited to the illustrious event but denied access to the country.

Two weeks ago scientists from around Europe warned that Brexit could leave Britain and the European Union 'more insular,' harming research across the continent.

A letter signed by 29 Nobel laureates and six winners of the Fields Medal mathematics prize urged Prime Minister Theresa May and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker to ensure the 'closest possible cooperation between the UK and the EU' after Britain leaves the bloc.

The letter said scientific innovation 'requires the flow of people and ideas across borders to allow the rapid exchange of ideas, expertise and technology.'

Leading academics are being refused permission to enter the UK in order to attend conferences. Head of a leading London-based research institute threatened to move future convenes out of Britain after 17 intellectuals were unable to obtain a visa (stock)

Two weeks ago a letter signed by 29 Nobel laureates and six winners of the Fields Medal mathematics prize urged Prime Minister Theresa May (pictured) and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker to ensure 'cooperation between the UK and the EU'

What is the final issue in the Brexit talks? Theresa May insists the Brexit deal is 95 per cent done - but the final issue of the Irish border backstop may be the hardest part. The backstop sets out what will happen to the Irish border if the Brexit transition ends before a final UK-EU trade deal is in place. Transition is currently due to end in December 2020. The EU is still insisting that in the absence of a full trade deal, Northern Ireland should stay in the EU customs union while the rest of the UK leaves to ensure the Irish border remains open. Mrs May has flatly rejected the idea, saying she would not agree to anything that risked splitting the UK. Instead, the government has mooted a temporary customs union for the whole UK. There would also probably need to be more regulatory checks between mainland UK and Northern Ireland to protect the single market. Some already take place, but they could be dramatically stepped up - potentially creating a huge flashpoint with the DUP. Brussels now appears to be prepared to do a UK-wide backstop in the divorce deal - but insists it must be robust and the UK could not exit it unilaterally.

'Creating new barriers to such ease of collaboration will inhibit progress, to the detriment of us all,' said the signatories, who include biologist Venki Ramakrishnan and economist Christopher Pissarides.

The London-based Francis Crick Institute, the biggest biomedical research lab under one roof in Europe, also warned that a 'hard Brexit' will restrict the flow of people, goods and services and have a detrimental impact on British science.

Crick director Paul Nurse, who shared the 2001 Nobel Prize in medicine for his cancer research, said: 'We need a deal that replaces the science funding lost because of Brexit, that preserves freedom of movement for talented scientists, and that makes them feel welcome in this country.'

The British government says it is seeking 'an ambitious relationship on science and innovation with our EU partners' after Brexit.

Details of new arrangements will not be worked out until after the UK leaves the bloc in March.

'There isn't absolute certainty now, which I would love to be able to give,' UK Science Minister Sam Gyimah said Tuesday.

'But what I can say is we are aware that, if we want to be the go-to place for science - which is our ambition as a nation - then mobility and reducing friction has to be a key part of that.'

The two sides hope to have a withdrawal agreement and the outlines of a deal on future relations in place well before the UK leaves the EU on March 29.

====== 1565 ========

POLITICIANS AROUND WORLD CALL FOR MARK ZUCKERBERG TO ANSWER QUESTIONS OVER FACEBOOK'S FAKE NEWS

Politicians around the world have joined Britain in calling for Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg to answer questions about fake news.

Officials from Australia, Ireland and Argentina have joined forces after Facebook refused the request from the UK and Canada for Mr Zuckerberg to appear before an 'international grand committee' on the subject on November 27.

Their request comes after Mr Zuckerberg, whose company makes millions worldwide, appeared before politicians in Washington on April 11 this year.

Damian Collins, chairman of the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport select committee, said Mr Zuckerberg's response 'is not good enough'.

Mark Zuckerberg testifies before a meeting of the US House Committee on Energy and Commerce

Damian Collins, MP for Folkestone and Hythe, and chairman of the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport committee outside parliament on April 26 when Facebook's chief technology officer Mike Schroepfer was grilled by MPs

'By dismissing our request, Facebook is failing to acknowledge its line of accountability not only to legislators, but to its users worldwide.

'There remain serious questions to be answered about what measures Facebook is taking now to halt the spread of disinformation on its platform and protection for user data.'

In declining the initial request, sent on October 31, Facebook UK's head of public policy Rebecca Stimson said the company will 'continue to co-operate fully with relevant regulators'.

She wrote: 'As your letter states, it is not possible for Mr Zuckerberg to be available to all parliaments.

'While he is unable to accept your invitation we continue to fully recognize the seriousness of these issues and remain committed to working with you to provide any additional relevant information you require for your respective inquiries.'

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg testifies before a House Energy and Commerce hearing on Capitol Hill in Washington about the use of Facebook data to target American voters in the 2016 election in April this year

In April this year, Facebook sent their chief technical officer Mike Schroepfer the UK parliament where he was grilled in heated exchanges by MPs.

Tory MP Julian Knight blasted: 'I put it to you that Facebook is a morality-free zone.

'You aren't an innocent party maligned by the likes of Cambridge Analytica: you are the problem.'

Mr Schroepfer replied: 'I respectfully disagree with that assessment.'

He continued, 'The core of our job is to build a service which helps millions of people connect with each other around the world every day.'

Facebook has grappled with a string of scandals in recent years as evidence has emerged of political actors using the network to influence voters around the world.

The social media giant was fined £500,000 by the Information Commissioner's Office in July, the maximum fine possible, for failing to protect millions of users' personal information which ended up in the hands of controversial election consultants Cambridge Analytica.

A week later the Electoral Commission fined Brexit campaign groups Vote Leave and BeLeave, and referred them to police for breaches in campaign spending centered around political advertising on Facebook.

This year, the company also released details of 'inauthentic co-ordinated activity' on the platform originating from Russia and Iran which targeted British and American politics.

Taking Down Coordinated Inauthentic Behavior from Iran https://t.co/taM2znMTN1 — Facebook Newsroom (@fbnewsroom) October 26, 2018

The new letter said: 'You appeared before committees of the US Congress and Senate, as well as the European Parliament.

'As the chairs of the relevant committees in the UK, Canadian, Australian, Argentinian and Irish parliaments, we believe that you owe Facebook users in our countries the same line of accountability.'

Mr Collins and Bob Zimmer, his Canadian counterpart, are joined in the letter by Leopoldo Moreau, for Argentina, James McGrath, of Australia, and Irish politician Hildegarde Naughton.

They have given Mr Zuckerberg until November 12 to respond.

Mr Collins said: 'Mark Zuckerberg has set himself the personal challenge of "fixing" Facebook this year to prevent its misuse in our democratic process.

'By being unwilling to face questions about his progress, doubts about his ability to do so remain.'

Mr Zuckerberg testified before a House Energy and Commerce hearing on Capitol Hill in Washington about the use of Facebook data to tamper in the 2016 Presidential elections.

====== 1566 ========

FBI RE-CREATES DECOY HEADS ALCATRAZ INMATES USED IN ESCAPE

Half a century after a notorious prison escape from Alcatraz Island, the FBI has created replicas of decoy heads that inmates used to distract guards from a plan that still captivates researchers and tourists.

Authorities on Thursday unveiled 3D-printed copies of the decoys that inmates Frank Morris and John and Clarence Anglin constructed with soap, plaster and human hair.

Morris and the Anglin brothers placed the decoys in their beds and climbed through a wall to escape the island prison in San Francisco Bay. The men were never found.

A newly 3D-printed replica of a decoy head used by prisoners to mount their infamous escape in 1962 is seen on display during a news conference at Alcatraz Island on Thursday

Authorities said they made the replicas to share with the public because the original decoys are fragile. Pictured, one of the cells that prisoners mounted the famous 1962 escape from

Inmate Clayton West also created a head but never made it out of the maximum-security prison that housed dangerous criminals like Al Capone and offenders with a history of escaping.

Authorities said they made the replicas to share with the public because the original decoys are fragile and are evidence in the still-open investigation into the escape by the U.S. Marshals Service.

'We understand the original items can't be out here - they've got to be archived,' said John F. Bennett, FBI special agent in charge in San Francisco.

'But we recognize that those items are also part of the rich and historic fabric and the landmark of this city.'

Authorities on Thursday unveiled 3D printed replicas of the decoys that inmates constructed with soap, plaster and human hair to distract guards from their plan

Through this hole cut into the back of a prison cell is the way one of three prisoners mounted a famous 1962 escape, on Alcatraz Island

Bennett said a team from the FBI's laboratory in Quantico, Virginia, traveled to San Francisco to scan the original decoys.

Employees at the lab donated their own hair to accurately re-create the original masks, which included human hair that the inmates had collected from the prison barber shop.

'The hair and the paint on here is exactly what the prisoners did,' Bennett said, showing the replicas brought to the island in black, waterproof cases.

The FBI investigated the prison break - which was featured in the 1979 movie 'Escape from Alcatraz' starring Clint Eastwood - for 17 years before it was turned over to the Marshals Service.

Alcatraz visitors can see models of the heads on display that were used in the 1979 movie 'Escape from Alcatraz'

This is the area prisoners climbed behind their cells to reach a rooftop and mount their escape

Now, Alcatraz visitors can see models of the heads on display that were used in the movie.

The FBI hopes the public will soon be able to view the agency's replicas, which were unveiled to some media outlets along with 'Wanted' signs for the long-escaped inmates.

Authorities are investigating any and all credible leads, said Don O'Keefe, U.S. marshal for the Northern District of California.

'Some may believe that we're chasing shadows, but our efforts are meant not just to perform due diligence, but to be a warning to other fugitives, that U.S. Marshals don't give up because of the passing of time,' he said in a statement.

FBI agents carry waterproof cases containing the newly 3D-printed decoy heads

====== 1567 ========

GOOGLE CHROME TO CRACK DOWN ON INVASIVE, MISLEADING ADS

oduct manager Vivek Sekhar says they 'did not go far enough' to stop adverts

Google has announced a crackdown on intrusive pop-up advertisements on its Chrome web browser after a previous update failed to stop them.

The ads open users up to phishing attacks that attempt to scam people into giving private information such as bank details to online fraudsters.

Google says the ads create an 'abusive experience for users', including fee messages, unexpected clicks, phishing attempts and misleading site behaviour.

The firm tried to stop manipulative adverts in an update last February but now admits that it 'did not go far enough'.

Chrome currently has an option to enable a pop-up blocker but fraudsters have quickly found ways around this.

Scroll down for video

Pop-up adverts appear in the form of small windows and tend to use system warnings, close or 'watch video' buttons to lure users into downloading applications or even handing over personal information (stock image)

The company declined to name the companies involved in the crackdown but said that the update will block ads from a 'small number of sites with persistent abusive problems'.

Pop-ups are small windows that tend to show system warnings which are difficult to close, as well as 'watch video' buttons.

When the company announced its previous crackdown back in February, critics were quick to point out that the firm wanted to make ads more tolerable - so that their own could get past filters.

Some said that the aim was to persuade people to disable their ad block so as not to deprive publishers (including Google) from displaying their advertisements and thus depriving them of revenue.

Although they did not go into detail about why the previous block didn't work, Chrome product manager Vivek Sekhar said: 'We've learned since then that this approach did not go far enough.'

'In fact, more than half of these abusive experiences are not blocked by our current set of protections, and nearly all involve harmful or misleading ads.'

Advertisements also tend to be a hotbed for malicious software or scams where fraudsters trick people into giving out their personal information.

Once a pop-up is clicked on, the ad can take you to a separate web page asking you to download an application and actually triggers an onslaught of more pop-up ads.

Chrome admits that it did not go far enough to stop the adverts earlier this year but have said that ads from a small group of serial offenders will be blocked (stock image)

Overall, Google wields too much influence over publishers, said Sean Blanchfield, the CEO of PageFair, a startup that helps publishers get around ad blockers.

'Traffic comes through Google Search, users come through Google Chrome, monetization is from Google ads,' Blanchfield said. 'Publishers are beginning to feel like they're playing in a gig economy operated by Google.'

A company spokeswoman said that the main problem is that shady websites are always coming up with new ways to exploit users but that the site owner must take action, but many choose not to.

She said: 'There are always new ways to mislead users that may bypass our protections. Addressing these abusive experiences are also up to the site owner, who may not always be motivated to address these misleading ads.'

Offending websites will get their ads blocked in the new version, Chrome 7.1, which launches in December.

Along with Facebook, Google dominates the online-advertising market; together they accounted for over 63 per cent of the $83 billion spent on U.S. digital ads last year, according to eMarketer.

====== 1568 ========

FUTURISTIC HANDSET WITH A FOLDABLE SCREEN IS UNVEILED IN CHINA

A Silicon Valley-based firm has released a futuristic smartphone that can fold up.

The FlexPai is billed as the world's first foldable smartphone by its developer Royole and has a super flexible screen which can be bent from the middle.

With a thickness of just 7.6mm, the duel-camera handset was launched in China this week and is now available for pre-order online.

The FlexPai (pictured) has a thin and flexible screen that can be bent back from the middle

A demonstration video released by Royole shows the dual-camera phone being folded up

When the phone's 7.8in (19.8cm) screen is fully bent back from both sides, it provides three display screens - instead of two - for the user.

In addition to the front and back displays, the spine will become a third albeit small screen showing incoming calls, messages or emails when they are received.

Depending on the specifications, the phone's price ranges from 8,999 yuan (£1,005) to 12,999 yuan (£1,452) in China for either a consumer model or a developer model.

However, only the developer model has been released outside of China at £1,209 for a 128G edition and £1,349 for a 256G edition.

The phone weighs just 320g and has two cameras at the top.

When the phone's screen is fully bent back from both sides, it provides three display screens - instead of two. The spine will become a third albeit small screen, showing calls and emails

With a large 7.8in (19.8cm) screen, the phone is available for pre-order online from £1,005

The cutting-edge handset was unveiled in Beijing on Wednesday by Bill Liu, the 35-year-old founder and CEO of Royole.

Liu is a Chinese entrepreneur with a PhD degree in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University. He established his company six years ago with offices in the United States and China.

Liu has given the screen a poetic name, Cicada's Wings, to highlight its light weight, flexibility and durability.

According to Liu, the screen was developed solely by his team and contains more than 20 million flexible high-precision devices, bendy integrated circuits and nearly 100 micro and nano structured thin film materials.

Liu said his team had run tests on the screen for around three years and owned more than 2,000 intellectual property rights.

Experts previously told Wire that flexible screens were more resilient and durable than glass-fronted touchscreen displays used in most current smartphones.

Foldable screens cannot be broken when they are dropped and are also lighter and cheaper to produce.

Bill Liu, the 35-year-old founder and CEO of Royole, unveils FlexPai in Beijing on Wednesday

An interested customer try to play with the bendy smartphone during its launch in Beijing

The launch of FlexPai has caught many industry observers by surprise.

It had been widely speculated that Samsung or Huawei would be the first company to launch a foldable phone.

DJ Koh, Samsung's mobile CEO, previously told CNBC that such a device was in the works, adding that the company was trying to differentiate the experience from a tablet once it is unfolded.

The Korean tech giant is expected to hold a developer conference in San Francisco next Wednesday that could give the public a preview of the technology.

Huawei CEO Richard Yu said in September that the Chinese company was working on developing a phone with a foldable display, adding that it would be out within the next year. The new phone would also support super-fast 5G network speeds.

FlexPai was also released as Chinese smartphone users switch their focus from cheap prices to high quality and more eye-catching designs.

According to a new report released by Internet Data Centre, around 105 million smartphones were sold in China in the second quarter of this year.

Although the figure is a 5.9 per cent decrease from the same period last year, consumers expressed desire to buy handsets with newer technology they had not seen before.

====== 1569 ========

NASA TO BEGIN TESTING SILENT SUPERSONIC TECHNOLOGY FOR NEXT-GEN AIRLINER

Nasa is to begin supersonic tests this month for its next-generation passenger airliner, dubbed the 'Son of Concorde' by aviation fans.

The plane, officially known as the X-59 Quiet Supersonic Transport (QueSST), will fire off 'quiet' sonic booms when it is launched for test flights on November 5.

The first flight of the X-59, which could one day fly from London to New York in just three hours without giving off a loud sonic boom, is scheduled for 2021.

The craft could become the first commercial supersonic aircraft to carry passengers since iconic Anglo-French jet Concorde was decommissioned 15 years ago.

Ahead of this the space agency will use a modified combat jet to check the 'acoustic signature' of the engines to be used in the airliner, by sending it into a series of dives.

It has recruited 500 people on the ground to then answer surveys about the noise generated by the the F/A-18 Hornet, to ensure the flight is quiet as it flies over Texas.

Scroll down for video

Nasa has announced a series of new tests for its 1,100mph (1,770kph) supersonic commercial airliner tipped to be the follow-up to the legendary Concorde. The plane (artist's impression) aims to cut out the noise associated with supersonic travel

Before the aircraft takes to the skies, Nasa is investigating whether members of the public are put off by the noise produced by X-59 when it breaks the sound barrier.

Tests scheduled for November will see an F-18 fighter jet conduct dive manoeuvres off the shores of Galveston, Texas - an island city near Houston.

The plane will rapidly descend from almost 50,000 feet (15,200 metres), briefly going supersonic and firing off the sound likely to come from X-59 aircraft.

The noise, which Nasa calls a 'sonic thump', should sound more like a car door slamming as opposed to the booms produced by existing supersonic aircraft.

The agency will measure the sounds using sensors on the ground while gathering public reaction through a series of surveys.

Sasha Ellis, a NASA spokesperson for the X-59 mission, told Newsweek: 'We’re solely focused on addressing the challenges of quiet supersonic flights over land, reducing that sonic boom to a sonic thump.'

Nasa pilot Jim Less will fire off 'quiet' sonic booms over a small city in Texas this month in a bid to gauge public reaction to the dampened supersonic thuds. Pictured is Less with the F-18 fighter jet aboard which he will perform the research

Alexandra Loubeau, Nasa's team lead for sonic boom community response research at Langley, said in July: 'We'll never know exactly what everyone heard.

'We won't have a noise monitor on their shoulder inside their home.

'But we'd like to at least have an estimate of the range of noise levels that they actually heard.'

X-59, which Nasa is developing with Lockheed Martin's aeronautics branch, is scheduled to make its first flight in 2022.

Originally named the Low-Flight Flight Demonstrator by Nasa, the agency announced in June that the aircraft was to be called X-59 QueSST going forward.

The US Air Force made the name change in-part as a hat tip American X-plane history, which began in 1947 with the world's first supersonic plane, the the Bell X-1.

'For everyone working on this important project, this is great news and we're thrilled with the designation,' Jaiwon Shin, associate administrator for Nasa's Aeronautics Research Mission Directorate, said in a statement in June.

WHAT IS NASA'S 'SON OF CONCORDE' X-PLANE? Nasa is developing a 1,100mph (1,770kph) aircraft that has been dubbed the 'son of Concorde'. The vehicle is the first in a series of aircraft Nasa is developing with Lockheed Martin in a quest to build a commercially viable supersonic jet. It is designed to fly at Mach 1.4 (1,100mph / 1,700 kph) at an altitude of 55,000 feet (10 miles). Dubbed the X-59 Quiet Supersonic Transport (QueSST), the research craft aims to cut out the sonic booms associated with supersonic travel. Pictured is an artist's impression of the Quiet Supersonic Transport (QueSST) low-boom flight demonstrator (LBFD) The aircraft is shaped to separate the shocks and expansions associated with supersonic flight to reduce the volume of the shaped signature, and was developed by Lockheed's Skunk Works over 20 years. The team is hoping to achieve a sonic boom 60 dBA lower than other supersonic aircraft, such as Concorde. Recent research has shown it is possible for a supersonic airplane to be shaped in such a way that the shock waves it forms when flying faster than the speed of sound can generate a sound at ground level so quiet it will hardly will be noticed by the public, if at all.

The X-59 project aims to cut out the noisy sonic booms that echoed above cities in the era of Concorde, while travelling at speeds of 1,100mph (Mach 1.4 / 1,700 km/h).

The loud booms that rang out whenever a Concorde broke the sound barrier were often described as 'unsettling' by members of the public, which ultimately limited the aircraft to flights over the Atlantic when it began carrying passengers in 1976.

X-59 is designed to stop shockwaves triggered by the movement of air particles when an aircraft breaks the sound barrier from merging - a phenomenon that gives off the telltale sonic boom of supersonic aircraft.

Nasa hopes to reduce the sound of the sonic boom to a quiet thud, similar to the sound of thunder rumbling in the distance or a neighbour closing their door.

Nasa is developing the aircraft with Lockheed Martin's aeronautics branch with test flights planned for 2022. The plane is dubbed the Quiet Supersonic Transport (QueSST) low-boom flight demonstrator (artist's impression)

'With the X-59 you're still going to have multiple shockwaves because of the wings on the aircraft that create lift and the volume of the plane,' said Ed Haering, a Nasa aerospace engineer at Nasa's Armstrong Flight Research Center in California.

'But the airplane's shape is carefully tailored such that those shockwaves do not combine.

'Instead of getting a loud boom-boom, you're going to get at least two quiet thump-thump sounds, if you even hear them at all.'

Nasa's November tests will produce similar shockwaves using an F-18 fighter jet to conduct sharp manoeuvres in the air.

HOW WILL NASA REDUCE THE SOUND OF SONIC BOOMS? In a conventional supersonic aircraft, shockwaves from the nose, cockpit, inlets, wings and other features come together as they move through the atmosphere into strong shocks emanating from the nose and tail. These are known as bow and tail shocks, respectively. As these shockwaves pass over the ground, air pressure rises sharply, declines, then rises rapidly again. It's this that produces the classic 'double-bang' sonic boom. In a conventional supersonic aircraft, shockwaves from the nose, cockpit, inlets, wings and other features come together as they move through the atmosphere into strong shocks emanating from the nose and tail Reshaping the aircraft to produce a longer, more slender shape is the best way to generate shockwaves of lower, more equal strength that do not form into such strong bow and tail shocks. Nasa and other organisations are working on creating shapes to reduce sonic booms. Stretching the nose to break the bow shock into a series of weaker shockwaves is particularly effective. This lowers and spreads that initial pressure peak and softens the first bang of the sonic boom.

The aircraft, pilot by Nasa researcher Jim Less, will dive from 49,000 feet (15,000m) and go briefly supersonic before levelling off at 30,000 feet (9,000m).

Shockwaves produced by the manoeuvre will concentrate directly below the aircraft in the form of a very loud, focussed pair of sonic booms.

A few miles from the dive points, the noise quickly trails off as they spread out and weaken.

Flights conducted by Nasa in November will study the US public's reactions to 'quiet' supersonic noises above their homes. Pictured is an artist's impression of the Quiet Supersonic Transport (QueSST) low-boom flight demonstrator (LBFD)

'The result in that area: a pair of quiet sonic booms – soft thumps, really – which people on the ground, including those Nasa researchers and resident volunteers, might barely notice, if they hear anything at all,' the agency wrote in a statement.

QueSST is the latest addition to the X-series of experimental aircraft and rockets, used to test and evaluate new technologies and aerodynamic concepts.

Their X designation indicates their research mission status within the US system of aircraft naming.

This all dates back to Chuck Yeager's sound-barrier-breaking craft, the X-1, a rocket engine–powered aircraft, designed and built in 1945, that achieved a speed of nearly 1,000 miles per hour (1,600 kmh) in 1948.

The team hopes to reduce the sound of the sonic boom to a quiet thud, similar to the sound of thunder rumbling in the distance or a neighbour closing their door. This graphic compares the F18 sonic boom to the sonic 'thump' that Nasa aims to achieve in the future

Nasa's vision for the X-59 was approved In the latest proposed US budget released by the Office Of Management And Budget In Washington, DC, in February.

The space agency was awarded $19.9 billion (£14.3bn) for the next year, $500 million (£360m) more than the previous year.

It is not known what proportion of this has been allocated for the supersonic aircraft project.

QueSST will be used as a test bed for technologies that could make their way into commercial planes.

Nasa is hoping to see the first flight tests take place in 2022, with public reaction tests to the final aircraft scheduled for the following year.

====== 1570 ========

NASA REVEALS FIRST VIDEO OF ITS CREW TRAINING IN ELON MUSK'S SPACEX CAPSULE

Elon Musk has revealed NASA astronauts have taken the controls of the SpaceX capsule they will pilot to the International Space station for the first time.

He tweeted NASA footage of two of its astronauts training inside the Crew Dragon, donning the distinctive SpaceX 'Stromtrooper' suits they will wear.

The first mission is expected to blast off late next year following a series of delays.

Scroll down for video

'Commercial crew astronauts Bob Behnken and Doug Hurley are getting familiar with operating inside SpaceX's Crew Dragon, fully suited!' NASA tweeted, and Musk retweeted.

NASA recently announced the first crewed flight by a SpaceX rocket to the International Space Station (ISS) is expected to take place in June 2019.

It will be the first manned US launch to the orbiting research laboratory since the space shuttle program was retired in 2011, forcing US astronauts to hitch costly rides aboard Russian Soyuz spacecraft.

