Last month, Polizzi told INSIDER that she was struggling to conceive.

Baby making: The Jersey Shore star explained that she and husband Jionni try once a month for a new little one

'We're definitely trying to have more,' she revealed.

'It's just not happening right now,' the star continued. 'But I would love to be pregnant ASAP.'

Looks like her wish came true as just about one month later she made the announcement that she is expecting.

Work life: Snooki is currently starring on the new season of Jersey Shore Family Vacation and didn't indicate if her pregnancy news will impact the show

Snooki and Jionni LaValle tied the knot in 2014.

The reality star has previously said she wants four children.

Currently, Snooki is starring on Jersey Shore Family Reunion, the reboot of the hit MTV show that made her famous.

She has not expressed whether or not her new pregnancy will impact filming future episodes.

====== 188 ========

KELLY CLARKSON BREAKS TRADITION AND DELIVERS LIVE PERFORMANCE AT MACY'S THANKSGIVING DAY PARADE

Kelly Clarkson, once again, proved why she is truly a voice of her generation, no matter the conditions.

The singer/songwriter delivered an inspired performance of her song Heat at the 2018 Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York City during blistering cold conditions Thursday morning.

And she made sure she let her fans know that she did not lip-sync, like most of the other performers on the day.

'Umm, I don’t know if y’all know this, but that was live!' Clarkson said on her Instagram Story.

Delivering the goods: Kelly Clarkson performed live at the 2018 Macy's Thanksgiving Parade despite freezing temperatures in New York City

'Brynn Cartelli, thank you. Singing in this cold weather with me. It’s so cold in New York,' Clarkson said in a nod to her former Voice mentee.

'I just wanted y’all to know, you probably all thought that sounded so good from Brynn Cartelli, but that was live as well. So Brynn Cartelli was rocking those runs this morning. I didn’t even give those runs this morning. I was like, nope!”

Despite dipping below 20 degrees Fahrenheit, the Since U Been Gone singer, and company, ripped through a red hot rendition of her hit tune Heat on a stage in front of Macy in Herald Square.

Inspired: Clarkson sang live along with Voice mentee Brynn Cartelli (second from right)

Performers usually lip sync during the holiday event due to logistical factors and issues brought on by the cold weather, as was the case for the other artists today.

In fact, most singers who lip-sync usually don't have the added benefit of being at a stationary stage, and instead have to perform on a moving float in the parade.

Rita Ora was among the singers who was singled out for lip syncing this year on social media. Crooner John Legend was quick to come to her defense to explain.

Bringing the heat: Clarkson and company ripped through her hit song Heat

Dancer Mackenzie Ziegler and Johnny Orlando made an appearance at the event

'Fun fact. We all have to lip sync on this parade because the floats don't have the capacity to handle the sound requirements for a live performance,' he wrote in response to a Twitter user who criticized Ora.

'Hope y'all enjoyed it anyway. Know that if you come to my shows, the vocals are 100% live!'

Reps from Macy's released a statement saying that 'several recording artist experienced technical difficulties that negatively impacted their performance.'

====== 189 ========

JESSICA ALBA AND HUSBAND CASH WARREN TAKE TURNS CRADLING SON HAYES ON THANKSGIVING

Golden Globe nominee Jessica Alba brought along her baby boy Hayes to shop for last-minute Thanksgiving groceries at Bristol Farms in Beverly Hills on Wednesday.

The 37-year-old mother-of-three dressed down in an Army-green jacket and spotted mules while her 10-month-old son looked adorable in a tiger cap and blue bandana.

'He's just such a sweet little butterball,' The Honest Company boss told People that same day.

'He's just such a sweet little butterball!' Jessica Alba brought along her baby boy Hayes to shop for last-minute Thanksgiving groceries at Bristol Farms in Beverly Hills on Wednesday

Cutie: The 37-year-old mother-of-three dressed down in an Army-green jacket and spotted mules while her 10-month-old son looked adorable in a tiger cap and blue bandana

'He's gonna be into opening [Christmas] presents and trying to put ribbons in his mouth, which I'm not looking forward to. He loves tearing things and opening things and throwing things.'

Little Hayes was rocking a similar outfit on turkey day as her husband of over a decade, Cash Warren, cradled him in the yard.

Inside the house, Jessica put the finishing touches on her large dining table featuring floral arrangements by Flowermaid.

Alba - who boasts 28.5M social media followers - Insta-storied quick glimpses of the homemade stuffing as well as one of the pies crafted by her 'sissy' Koa Jones.

'My guys!' Little Hayes was rocking a similar outfit on turkey day as her husband of over a decade, Cash Warren, cradled him in the yard

Thanksgiving family portrait: The Mexican-American mompreneur and the 39-year-old Pair of Thieves sock/underwear designer are also parents to two daughters Haven, 7; and Honor, 10

Hungry? Inside the house, Jessica put the finishing touches on her large dining table featuring floral arrangements by Flowermaid

'Happy Thanksgiving folks!' Alba Insta-storied quick glimpses of the homemade stuffing as well as one of the pies crafted by her 'sissy' Koa Jones

'Sissy love!' The Pomona-born beauty sported a black floral hoodie as she posed for a selfie with Koa (L) and her other 'sissy' Makayla Elena (R)

The Pomona-born beauty sported a black floral hoodie as she posed for a selfie with Koa and her other 'sissy' Makayla Elena.

The Mexican-American mompreneur and the 39-year-old Pair of Thieves sock/underwear designer - who met on the 2004 set of Fantastic Four - are also parents to two daughters Haven, 7; and Honor, 10.

Jessica currently plays a famous actress who joins Detectives Cullen and Tolbeck (Patrick Brammall and Tim Meadows) for a ride along in the eight-episode second season of No Activity, which started streaming Thursday on CBS All Access.

====== 190 ========

'HE WAS A BROTHER': LFO STAR BRAD FISCHETTI MOURNS DEATH OF BANDMATE DEVIN LIMA IN EMOTIONAL TRIBUTE

Brad Fischetti, the last remaining member of the pop group LFO, paid tribute to bandmate Devin Lima in a heartbreaking video.

Singer Devin Lima passed away Wednesday after battling stage four adrenal cancer for about a year.

'He will be greatly missed by many. To me he was a brother,' a visibly shaken Fischetti said in a YouTube video.

RIP: Harold 'Devin' Lima passed away on Wednesday after battling cancer at the age of 41

Fischetti continued: 'To his six kids he was a father. To their mother, a wonderful partner. He was a son and brother, a friend and beloved by so many.'

'He was an extraordinary talent and a beautiful man,' the singer said as he hung his head and appeared to fight back tears, 'and I'll miss him and I'll honor him.'

He concluded with a nod to his faith: 'I know right now he stands in the presence of greatness, in the mix of heaven, talking to Jesus saying, 'hey watch out for my friends, hey watch out for my friends. That's where I find peace.'

Heartfelt: LFO bandmate Brad Fischetti paid tribute to Lima in an emotional YouTube video

Courageous: Lima was diagnosed with stage four adrenal cancer about a year ago

Adding to the heartbreak, Fischetti also revealed the last conversation he had with his beloved friend in the video description.

'A few days before he passed away he said to me, 'Bro, when it's over, just tell them I disappeared.' My friends, Harold Devin Lima has disappeared,' the statement concluded.

Lima's death comes about eight years after bandmate Rich Cronin died at the age of 36 after battling leukemia.

The group, which formed in 1995, is best known for their hit songs Summer Girls, Girl on TV and Every Other Time.

They broke up in 2002, reunited seven years later, and again parted ways at the end of 2009. Franchetti and Lima reformed LFO last year and were supposed to go on tour in the spring, but it was cancelled after Lima's cancer diagnosis.

====== 191 ========

GAME OF THRONES' GWENDOLINE CHRISTIE TURNS HEADS AS SHOWS OFF HER SOFTER SIDE ON THE MIU MIU CATWALK

She's best known for playing bold roles in Game Of Thrones and Star Wars.

And actress Gwendoline Christie showed off her stunning 6ft 3in height on the runway for Miu Miu's Cruise 2019 Fashion Show in Shanghai on Thursday

The British actress, 40, showcased her model style in a contrast green and leopard print gown with sexy cut-out details at the sides and black statement heels.

Catwalk queen: Gwendoline Christie showcased her model style in a leopard print gown with cut-out details as she walked the Miu Miu Cruise 2019 Fashion Show in Shanghai on Thursday

The beautiful blonde, styled her signature bob in a simple middle parting and sported bold red lipstick and nude eyes for the look

Later that evening Gwendoline, who is fronting Miu Miu's 2019 campaign, was spotted after the show looking glamorous in a black lace dress and diamante studded coat.

The Star Wars actress spoke to ES Magazine in September where she revealed she was bullied 'terribly' at school but has learned to find her 'inconsistencies and ugly parts' beautiful in later life.

Model style: The statuesque blonde styled her signature blonde in a simple middle parting and sported bold red lipstick and nude eyes for the look

She confessed: ‘You either think I’m unconventional and there’s no place for me and therefore I should disappear, or you think good, I’m happy to be on the outside.

'Because if this is the small-minded, mean, uncompassionate viewpoint of the inside, then I don’t want to be there. I’m happy out here with all the other leftovers, who show love and support for each other.

'All of the inconsistencies, complexities and ugly parts — whatever that might mean — can exist and beauty can be made out of it. That’s what I want beauty to be.’

All smiles: The Star Wars actress spoke to ES Magazine in September where she revealed she was bullied 'terribly' at school

The actress also admitted clothes became a form of escapism following years of torment at school.

Gwendoline explained: 'It was a combination of wanting to escape the unpleasant narrative that was being applied to me at school, where I was bullied terribly, and loving the transportative nature of the arts.

'It was about not wanting to live a prescriptive life.’

The model, who is in a relationship with fashion designer Giles Deacon, also confessed her role as warrior Brienne of Tarth in Game of Thrones was both a 'professional and personal' triumph.

====== 192 ========

KHLOE KARDASHIAN TAKES TRUE TO CLEVELAND FOR FIRST THANKSGIVING WITH DAD TRISTAN THOMPSON

Khloe Kardashian has had to relive Tristain Thompson's cheating scandal all over again as the drama played out on this season of Keeping Up With The Kardashians.

But while she struggles with what to do about her rocky relationship with the NBA star, she is doing her best to put her daughter first.

The 34-year-old took baby True to Cleveland for her first Thanksgiving and gave a sneak peek inside their celebration with fans on Instagram.

Tristan also documented part of the day on an Instagram live video. Khloe was dressed in a stylish pink and purple outfit, but appeared subdued.

She had earlier told fans that she had spent the morning 'cooking my heart out' and dubbed herself 'Chef Koko'.

Put her daughter first: Khloe Kardashian took daughter True to Cleveland to spend Thanksgiving with Tristan Thompson

Putting on a brave face: The mother-of-one appeared subdued while Tristan filmed her. The star is said to be struggling with what to do about her relationship with the NBA star

Lavish: The elaborate table setting had a definite Kardashian touch

It has been claimed that in recent weeks she's decided not to 'define' their relationship and will only refer to him as 'True's dad'.

An insider told E!: 'Tristan's schedule worked out so they could spend Thanksgiving together in Cleveland.

'It's True's first Thanksgiving and Khloe wants to celebrate it as a family. It's very important to her that True has her own family traditions and is with both her mom and dad.'

'Cooking my heart out': Khloe, or 'Chef Koko' as she called herself, spent the morning preparing the Thanksgiving feast

Food glorious food: Khloe shared a glimpse inside their celebration

Message for her fans: Khloe took to Twitter to spread the love

But Khloe is reportedly still unsure about moving to Cleveland from Los Angeles full time, after finding it 'hard' dealing with the basketball player's alleged infidelity.

The source added: 'She is still very happy in L.A. with her family support and the thought of being back in Cleveland by herself is unsettling.

Sweet treat: The dessert buffet was a mouth-watering sight

'She isn't making long-term plans and is just taking it little by little and seeing what happens.

'He's very conflicted and tries her best to stay focused on True and all the joys of motherhood.

'It's complicated with Tristan, but he's True's dad and that's what matters most to Khloe.'

Khloe's family, including her mom Kris Jenner, are celebrating Thanksgiving in Los Angeles.

Ready to eat: Khloe shared a look at her plate, which included mac and cheese, green beans and of course, turkey

Kim Kardashian recently revealed it has been difficult for Khloe and Tristan to watch this season, which covers how he cheated on her just days before she gave birth to their child True.

Kim told Ellen Degeneres this week: 'It is awkward, especially for maybe Tristan, who isn't used to this.'

'Unfortunately, that was what's going on in our lives. Six months later it replays, and they've gotten through what they needed to get through, and it's rehashed in front of everyone, and everyone's giving their opinions all over again, and we're live tweeting, and everyone's chiming in.'

But, says Kim, while it can be hard, there are positives from the experience.

'That is hard for Khloé and I'm sure for Tristan, but it's our reality, and we've learned to kind of use it as a therapy, just to kind of get it out one last time with everyone else.'

====== 193 ========

TAYLOR SWIFT CALLS BOYFRIEND JOE ALWYN'S NEW FILM THE FAVOURITE ON INSTAGRAM 'PHENOMENAL'

Her love life has been well chronicled in the media and in her songs.

And Taylor Swift showed her supportive side when she took to her Instagram to promote boyfriend Joe Alwyn's new film The Favourite.

'The Favourite is phenomenal, you need to see it,' she wrote on her Instagram Story.

Supportive GF: Taylor Swift gave a shout out to boyfriend Joe Alwyn's new movie The Favourite

The story focuses in the behind-the-scenes politics between two cousins jockeying to be court favorites during the reign of Queen Anne.

In the period-piece, which is set in early 18th century England, a frail Queen Anne, played by Olivia Colman) occupies the throne and her close friend Lady sarah (Rachel Weisz) governs the country in her stead. When a new servant Abagail (Emma Stone) arrives, her charm endears her to Sarah.

Swift's beau plays the role of Samuel Masham, a British courtier in the court of Queen Anne, and the husband of her favourite Baroness Masham.

Pop star promotion: Swift shared a video clip of The Favourite on her Insta-Story

Dressed for the part: Alwyn plays the role of Samuel Masham, a British courtier in the court of Queen Anne in the early 18th century period piece; the actor is pictured in a scene

The British-born Alwyn, 27, is best known for his roles in the Ang Lee film Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk in 2016 and, most recently, in the 2018 critically acclaimed biographical drama Boy Erased, starring Nicole Kidman, Joel Edgerton and Lucas Hedges.

It is a very buy time for the North London native as Alwyn is currently filming two new films: Harriet and Waiting For The Barbarians.

No doubt his busy schedule, as well as Swift's recent world tour, has prompted the couple to get creative when trying to spend some quality time together.

Pop sensation: Taylor kicked off her Reputation tour in May 2018 in the US and wrapped up in Tokyo November 21; the singer is pictured during a show in Dublin, Ireland in June

They have reportedly been dating since September 2016, and have made it a priority to keep their private life just that -- private.

'I’m aware people want to know about that side of things,' Alwyn said to People in reference to the public’s interest in him and Swift. 'I think we have been successfully very private and that has now sunk in for people…but I really prefer to talk about work.'

The Favourite hits theaters in the US on Friday, November 23, which will be followed up by the release in the UK January 1, 2019.





====== 194 ========

VICTORIA'S SECRET MODEL SHANINA SHAIK FLAUNTS HER TONED MIDRIFF IN THE GYM AND THANKSGIVING DAY MEAL

She recently stormed the runway for Victoria's Secret for the fifth time.

And on Thursday, Shanina Shaik, 27, showed she's still 'training like a angel' when she hit a gym with her husband, DJ Ruckus, in Miami.

Taking to Instagram, the supermodel flaunted her super toned midriff as she posed in front of a rack of kettlebells and weight balls at the health club.

Scroll down for video

'I won't feel guilty': Victoria's Secret model Shanina Shaik, 27, flaunted her toned midriff when she hit a Miami gym Thursday on the Thanksgiving holiday

Wearing a white crop top and black tights, Shanina showed off her washboard abs as she struck a pose.

'Won't be feeling guilty today with all that food in my belly,' the statuesque beauty wrote in reference to Thanksgiving dinner.

Taking to her Instagram Story later in the day, Shanina shared the impressive spread she and DJ Ruckus enjoyed with their family and friends.

Thanksgiving plate! Panning over a number of plates of food, Shanina and her guests enjoyed turkey, steamed beans, spinach, potato bake, corn and corn bread

Panning over a number of plates of food, Shanina and her guests enjoyed turkey, steamed beans, spinach, potato bake, corn and corn bread.

Shanina recently shared a photograph of herself modelling a skimpy black bikini on an idyllic beach on Tuesday.

'Off to somewhere sunny': Shanina flaunted her incredible figure in a tiny black bikini at the beach on Tuesday before taking off to Miami

She posed kneeling on the shoreline against the picturesque backdrop of rolling waves and a bright blue sky.

Her brunette hair was styled in beachy waves down her chest and she opted for a glamorous makeup palette.

'Off to somewhere sunny,' she wrote in the caption, alongside an angel wing emoji - hinting that she was on assignment for Victoria's Secret.

Simply stunning! Shanina, who hails from Melbourne, is a five-time Victoria's Secret model

Shanina recently strutted her stuff in the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show.

She was joined by the likes of Kendall Jenner, Gigi and Bella Hadid, and Winnie Harlow on the star-studded runway.

The Melbourne native debuted for Victoria's Secret at its 2011 show, before returning to the catwalk in 2012, 2014 and 2015.

It's been a busy year for Shanina, who married her partner DJ Ruckus - whose real name is Gregory Andrews - in the Bahamas in late April.

The genetically-blessed couple became engaged on Boxing Day in 2015.

====== 195 ========

INSIDE SIMON COWELL'S VERY LUXURIOUS THANKSGIVING PARTY

Simon Cowell invited his fellow X Factor judges, Robbie Williams and Ayda Field to an extravagant Thanksgiving dinner soirée at his London home on Thursday.

The couple were pictured leaving the property hand in hand after indulging in the autumnal feast, as Ayda shared glimpses of the party on social media.

Long tables were lined with floral arrangements with fairy lights and each guest had a personalised name card made out of leaf-shaped biscuits.

Seasonal soirée: Robbie Williams and Ayda Field attended Simon Cowell's woodland-themed Thanksgiving dinner at his home in London on Thursday evening

Happy family: Ayda shared glimpses of the party on social media, as she sat with Simon and his girlfriend Lauren Silverman (centre)

Simon put on the very plush party with the help of his stunning girlfriend Lauren Silverman, 41, and their young son Eric, 4.

Light flooded the room from the hanging candles which brought attention to the stunning autumnal setting.

The tables were laid with wine glasses galore while berries, roses and leaves in red and green gave the dinner party a wonderful woodland atmosphere.

Wow: The tables were laid with wine glasses galore while berries, roses and leaves in red and green gave the dinner party a wonderful woodland atmosphere

The incredible spread: The autumnal dinner feast had extravagant table dressings and fairy lights

Strength to strength: Robbie and his wife held each other's hands when they made their departure from the party

Each place was set with a menu which informed guests of all the delicious foods they would be sampling including butternut squash soup and honey glazed carrots.

As well as the printed menu, each table place had a gingerbread biscuit in the shape of a leaf with their name personalised on the sweet treat in salted caramel icing.

The music mogul showed his abundance of generosity as guests left the swanky venue with quirky presents.

Special: Ayda and Robbie's daughter Teddy, six, was also in attendance and she, along with other guests had a personalised gingerbread biscuit place setting

Let Me Entertain You: X Factor judges Robbie and Ayda posed for more pics with Lauren as candle light flooded the room

Robbie and Ayda led the star-studded guest list and were overjoyed to spend the holiday season with Simon and his family.

The X Factor judges, who have a very close relationship with Simon, even brought their children to the glamorous occasion.

Ayda puckered up her lips as she cosied up to her rocker husband when they posed for a flirty close-up selfie.

Kisses from the missus! Ayda puckered up her lips as she cosied up to her rocker husband when they posed for a flirty close-up selfie

What a treat: The music mogul showed his abundance of generosity as guests left the swanky venue with quirky presents

The blonde bombshell dressed to catch the eye in her scarlet patterned dress and she defined her features with heavy eyeliner.

Meanwhile, Robbie look suave in his patterned casual shirt which he paired with a two-piece suit and shiny shoes.

She publicly thanked Simon and his ladylove Lauren for their 'amazing' dinner party as she expressed her 'deep' gratitude while she shared the snaps on Instagram.

How lovely: Ayda dressed to catch the eye in her patterned scarlet dress and boots

Sensational in stripes: Robbie looked suave in his pinstriped suit when he left the bash in his shiny brogues

She shared with her followers: 'Thank you to Lauren and Simon for hosting an amazing Thanksgiving dinner.

'I am so deeply grateful to my beautiful friends and family for all the joy and laughter they bring me. And the abundance of health and great adventures we share.

'Happy Thanksgiving to everyone, to those who celebrate, and those who don't. Love and happiness to all... AW xx.' (sic)

Great night: Simon Cowell put the rest of Hollywood to shame with his extravagant Thanksgiving dinner soirée on Thursday where no expenses were spared

====== 196 ========

DIANA ROSS DOESN'T BOTHER BRINGING MIC TO LIP SYNC THANKSGIVING PERFORMANCE... AND TWITTER LOVES IT

When you are legend status, you do whatever the hell you want.

And that's exactly what Diana Ross did on Thursday when she didn't even bother to use a microphone to lip-sync to her Thanksgiving Parade performance.

The 74-year-old icon was one of the performers lined up to ride the floats through the streets of New York for the 92nd annual Macy's holiday spectacular.

The ultimate diva: Diana Ross didn't even bother to bring a mic to lip-sync to her Thanksgiving Parade performance on Thursday

But unlike her peers who did their best to pretend they were singing live, the songstress emphatically mouthed the words completely hands — and care — free.

Despite record low temperatures for the parade, the septuagenarian looked like she was having a ball, smiling and dancing along to her own pre-recorded version of Paul McCartney's Simply Having A Wonderful Christmas Time.

She looked amazing too, clad in a glimmering white gown and enormous fur coat befitting the queen she is.

As for her 'effortless' performance, Twitter could not get enough of it.

Icon: The 74-year-old icon was one of the performers lined up to ride the floats through the streets of New York for the 92nd annual Macy's holiday spectacular

Queen: As for her 'effortless' performance, Twitter could not get enough of it

'Diana Ross, not even bothering to lipsync. Like the legend she is. #MacysParade' one user wrote.

'Love how Diana Ross is like f*ck the mic, I'll just have my hair blowing in my face,' posted another.

'Diana Ross ain’t having it today! Y’all know I can sing, just play my sh*t & let me stand up there!' joked a third.

Zero Fs given: Unlike her peers who did their best to pretend they were singing live, the songstress emphatically mouthed the words completely hands — and care — free

Mood: Fans loved the performance even if they couldn't hear it

'LMAO Diana Ross said “Nah I’m good” to a microphone,' a fourth shared, while a fifth stated: 'Ok Diana Ross just showed us how not to care.'

The Reach Out And Touch hitmaker was joined at the gig by several members of her family, including daughter Tracee Ellis Ross, son Evan Ross and daughter-in-law Ashlee Simpson.

Like the matriarch, the whole clan dressed entirely in white.

Clan: The Reach Out And Touch hitmaker was joined at the gig by several members of her family

Loving family: Daughter Tracee Ellis Ross, son Evan Ross and daughter-in-law Ashlee Simpson were all there to support her

At least one thing was properly synced: Like the matriarch, the whole clan dressed entirely in white

Young at heart: Diana looked amazing, clad in a glimmering white gown and enormous fur coat befitting the queen she is

There were other memorable lip-syncing moments earlier in the parade too, such as when Rita Ora attempted to do so a good five seconds behind the recorded track.

Viewers mocked her on Twitter, but fellow performer John Legend jumped to her defense, insisting all performers had to lip sync because the floats could not handle the required sound equipment.

However one performer who was not happy to settle for the lip-syncing option was Kelly Clarkson, who brought her own stage, band, horn section and back-up singers, so she could belt out an authentic rendition of Heat.

Stylish! Tracee rocked a long white coat with trainers and over-sized glasses

====== 197 ========

JUSTIN BIEBER'S MOTHER SENDS LOVE AND CALLS HAILEY BALDWIN HER 'DAUGHTER' IN SWEET BIRTHDAY MESSAGE

Justin Bieber's mother more than approves of new daughter in-law Hailey Baldwin.

Pattie Mallette, 43, wished her son's new wife a happy 22nd birthday in an sweet message and photos on Thursday.

“HAPPY BIRTHDAY @haileybaldwin !! I LOVE YOU!! I’m SO #THANKFUL to have you as a daughter!!!” Mallette shared on Twitter.

Family matters: Pattie Mallette, 43, wished her son's new wife a happy 22nd birthday in an sweet message and photos on Thursday

Family unity: Pattie sent this sweet message to Hailey on Twitter

Justin's mom also got to spend some quality time with Hailey on her birthday, and she shared some of the festive and loving moments on her Insta-Story.

In one adorable picture, the new Mrs. Justin Bieber can be seen giving her new mother-in-law a kiss on the cheek.

There's also a cute video where the pop star is casually talking to his new bride and then he joking pushes a cake he was holding his hand into her face.

A follow-up photo showed the happy couple going in for a kiss with cake and icing all over Hailey's face.

Momma bear: The singer's mother shared photos and video of Hailey's birthday bash

Antics: At one point Justin jokingly pushed a cake into her wife's face

Adorable: The newlyweds went in for a sweet kiss after the pop star's tasty joke

Happy 22: Afterwards, Justin presented his wife her actual birthday cake

Home sweet home: Justin was also photographed cuddling with his mom and other family members during the festive party

The birthday wishes come about a week after the model changed her Instagram handle to @HaileyBieber, as well as in her bio to read, Hailey Rhode Bieber.

It also came about two months after Justin and Hailey tied-the-knot in a secret ceremony at a New York courthouse in September.

News of the nuptials set off a media frenzy with fans, critics and casual pop culture trolls.

Hailey has also received a number of birthday wishes that were posted on her Insta-Story

All the seemingly endless chatter even prompted the Bieb's mom to speak out on social media. One day after the couple reportedly got hitched, Mallette tweeted out: 'Love is unconditional.'

Adding more fuel to the marriage rumors at the time, the pop star's mom wrote, 'Haters gonna hate. #Love Wins' the very next day.

The Love Yourself singer recently confirmed their marital status when he captioned: 'My wife is awesome,' in a photo of the couple smiling and holding hands.

The 24-year old star proposed to Hailey with a custom oval engagement ring on July 7 while the couple were in the Bahamas, according to People.

Back in the day: Earlier this year Mallette shared a photo of her with her son when he was in his eighth grade

Confirmation: The Love Yourself singer recently confirmed his marital status when he captioned: 'My wife is awesome,' in this picture a week ago

====== 198 ========

JENNIFER GARNER AND MINDY KALING LEAD CELEBRITY THANKSGIVING SOCIAL MEDIA POSTS

The first Thanksgiving in what is now known as the United States was celebrated by the Pilgrims in the New World on October 1621.

And Jennifer Garner proved herself to be quite the history buff as she donned the garb of the first English settlers in a hilarious throwback posted to Instagram to celebrate the annual holiday.

The 46-year-old actress led stars on social media posting about Thanksgiving as she shared the fresh-faced snap while sitting at a dining table with a homemade Pilgrim costume, shortly before fellow stars including Mindy Kaling, John Legend and, of course, the Kardashians got in on the action.

Turkey time! Jennifer Garner led stars on social media posting about Thanksgiving as she shared a throwback snap of herself wearing a Pilgrim costume on Instagram Thursday

Adding more fun to the festivities, Jennifer was joined by British actress Claudia Sermbezis who was dressed as a turkey as they sat down for dinner together.

Jennifer captioned the fun image: 'So many recipes floating for Thanksgiving, but how about a new tradition?

'Invite a friend from a foreign land (in this case, England). Make up Thanksgiving traditions she has to follow. I dressed my darling Brit as a turkey and paraded her around the mean streets of Charleston, WV.'

She went on to suggest that Thanksgiving presents may be a fun way to celebrate, as she: 'Thanksgiving is for family and friends, food and football—but don’t forget FUN. XXX. Happy Thanksgiving!'

'I miss you, Brit': Jennifer later took to this Instagram story to share this cute snap of she and British actress Claudia Sermbezis who was dressed as a turkey

Think pink: Mindy Kaling was also in a festive spirit as she will be celebrating her first ever Thanksgiving with 11-month-old daughter Katherine

'thankful.': Kylie Jenner took to Instagram on Thursday to share an adorable family snap featuring boyfriend Travis Scott and their nine-month-old daughter Stormi

In the spirit: The Keeping Up With The Kardashians star posted several Thanksgiving-related tweets to share with her 25.7 million followers on Wednesday

Meanwhile, Mindy Kaling was also in a festive spirit as she will be celebrating her first ever Thanksgiving with 11-month-old daughter Katherine.

The 39-year-old actress certainly has a lot to be grateful for as she shared an adorable photo of she and the youngster matching jeans with pink Converse Chucks. She posted it with the heartfelt caption: 'Thankful for her. Happy Thanksgiving [two heart emojis].'

Kylie Jenner, 21, took to Instagram on Thursday to share an adorable family snap featuring boyfriend Travis Scott and their nine-month-old daughter Stormi. The 21-year-old make-up mogul could be seen kissing the bouncing baby girl on the cheek as she kept the caption simple by writing: 'thankful.'

Way back when: Kris Jenner took to Instagram to share a throwback snap of the entire brood together on the holiday

Happy family: Kourtney Kardashian shared this cute photo of herself with ex Scott Disick and their three kids together

Peddle to the metal: No doubt Kim Kardashian is prepping herself for a big night of eating as she took to her Instagram Stories to share a video of herself getting a bike ride in

Safety first: A female companion said something to Kim to which she responded: 'I'm trying. Don't distract me. Happy Thanksgiving everyone!

All that glitters: Scott's younger girlfriend Sofia Richie shared this image of her shiny pants

The family could be seen matching in all black as they cuddled close for the rare family picture.

No doubt the Keeping Up With The Kardashians star can't wait to grub on the holiday as she took to Twitter on Wednesday to write: 'Can’t wait to eat my body weight in thanksgiving food tomorrow.'

Kylie was definitely in the spirit of the holiday as she expressed her gratitude to her 25.7 million followers as she wrote: 'Thankful for you guys.'

Putting on a brave face: The mother-of-one appeared subdued while Tristan filmed her. The star is said to be struggling with what to do about her relationship with the NBA star

Put her daughter first: Khloe Kardashian took daughter True to Cleveland to spend Thanksgiving with Tristan Thompson

Lavish: The elaborate table setting had a definite Kardashian touch

Prada or nada: Tristan has yet to share any family photos but did post this outfit picture from last night's Cleveland Cavaliers home game, they lost to the Los Angeles Lakers 109-105

As she makes sure to donate food every year to people in need she also shed some light on her giving side.

The Kylie Cosmetics owner wrote: 'but on that note i feel very thankful i was able to provide thanksgiving meals this year to people in need of one. it’s important we spread the love [heart emoji].'

No doubt Kylie's family can't wait to get together to celebrate together as the several members of the clan took to social media ahead of the big dinner.

Kris Jenner took to Instagram to share a throwback snap of the entire brood together on the holiday.

'Do I look like a turkey?': As Chrissy Teigen has proved herself to be quite the food expert, in addition to cooking the big family meal she also attempted to dress the part

Epic burn! Chrissy called Macy's 'savage' after they dug up a 2014 tweet where she called parades boring and posted it alongside a John Legend tweet promoting his Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade performance on Thursday

The 63-year-old momager wrote: 'Happy Thanksgiving Guys!!! I am so thankful for all of you. Thank you for all of your love and support always... what a gift life is.

'Enjoy every precious moment.... I am so thankful for and cherish these 6 amazing blessings and all of my beautiful grandchildren... I give thanks to God every single day. I love you'

No doubt Kim Kardashian is prepping herself for a big night of eating as she took to her Instagram Stories to share a video of herself getting a bike ride in.

Drop the mic! Macy's seemingly ended the battle with a smug gif of Santa sipping the tea

Hysterical: Legend retweeted the burn and laughed, calling it 'perfect'

'I cannot imagine being bored enough to watch a parade on television:' said 2014 Chrissy

A female companion said something to Kim to which she responded: 'I'm trying. Don't distract me. Happy Thanksgiving everyone!

Meanwhile their sister Khloe Kardashian is nearly on the other side of the country as she took baby True to Cleveland to spend the holiday with Tristan Thompson. The 34-year-old gave a sneak peek inside their celebration with fans on Instagram.

Tristan also documented part of the day on an Instagram live video. Khloe was dressed in a stylish pink and purple outfit, but appeared subdued.

She had earlier told fans that she had spent the morning 'cooking my heart out' and dubbed herself 'Chef Koko'.

Too busy: This year the model said she still didn't watch because she was home cooking dinner

Doubling down: The supermodel gave in and actually watched some of the show

As Chrissy Teigen has proved herself to be quite the food expert, in addition to cooking the big family meal she also attempted to dress the part.

She sported a floral robe along with a brown twisted headband while prepping food for the big day.

The 32-year-old mother-of-two took a selfie video posted to her Instagram Story as she said: 'Do I look like a turkey?' It was a busy day on social media for Chrissy as she was dragged by Macy's over a 2014 tweet.

Thankful: Alex Rodriguez shared a sweet black and white snap cuddled up with Jennifer Lopez and their four collective children in bed on Thursday

Stunning: The ageless beauty was dressed casually as she showed off their holiday decor

Happy Thanksgiving: The slugger shared some intimate snaps of his love, JLo, at home on the holiday

Bundle of joy: Gabrielle Union shared this cute picture of Dwyane Wade and their newborn baby daughter who arrived via surrogate just weeks ago

Annual tradition: Gwen Stefani joined boyfriend Blake Shelton at his home for the annual holiday

Kitchen skills: Blake Shelton carries around his Thanksgiving handiwork

The great unveiling: The Voice judge shows off his culinary creation

Eat your heart out Lil Xan! Gwen showed that they were going to indulge in the Hot Cheetos turkey that hit it viral this week

The retail giant tweeted an epic burn of the supermodel for hating on parades ahead of her husband John Legend performing in the annual Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade.

The retailer dug up a vintage tweet from the Craving's author from 2014 where she insulted the tradition and posted it as a 'savage' throwback tweet early on Thanksgiving morning.

'I cannot imagine being bored enough to watch a parade on television,' the 32-year-old tweeted back in 2014.

Macy's reposted the tweet on Thursday writing simply #TBT.

'Thankful for the miracle of life': Kate Hudson is also another celebrity spending her first Thanksgiving with a new child as she posted a video of her breast milk pump, she welcomed daughter Rani Rose last month with boyfriend Danny Fujikawa

Cardio sesh: Kate also worked out for the first time since having a child as she posted a selfie boasting about a seven mile jog

'Family.. forever..': Priyanka Chopra shared this snap featuring fiance Nick Jonas and family enjoying Thanksgiving together in Delhi, India

You get a turkey, you get a turkey! Oprah Winfrey took to Instagram to share a video of the tasty turkey she will be eating later on in the day

Excited: She said that she has three smokers to cook the delicious turkeys

Looking good: She showed off two turkeys specifically which had a nice brown color to them

Man with the plan: She proudly posed with Chef Kenny Gilbert who has made Thanksgiving food preparations for Oprah for four straight years

Alongside Chrissy's vintage comment, Macy's included a tweet from her husband promoting his performance in this year's parade.

'Happy Thanksgiving! I’m on the @buildabear float at the #MacysParade,' the 39-year-old crooner wrote.

Adding: 'And very soon I’ll be performing #MerryLittleChristmas from my new album #ALegendaryChristmas - tune in now on @nbc!' Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez are celebrating by joining their two families together.

Loved up: Julianne Hough was certainly in a festive mood as she donned autumn colors to participate in a Turkey Trot 5K for charity alongside husband Brooks Laich

What a time: The couple certainly looked loved up on the charity run

Strutting her stuff: The 30-year-old former Dancing With The Stars pro sported a white long-sleeve event T-shirt along with a red, green, orange, and yellow tutu along with a turkey beanie

Happy family: Amy Schumer took to Instagram to share this cute group photo of her meal with her new husband and the rest of her family

The former slugger shared a sweet black and white snap cuddled up with the 49-year-old triple threat and their four collective children in bed.

'Thankful for mornings like this with the ones I love most,' the 43-year-old wrote in the caption.

Adding: 'I am truly blessed. #HappyThanksgiving to all of you and your families. #gratitude'

In the image, a makeup-free Jennifer Lopez laid one side of a comfy bed nuzzling her 10-year-old twins, Max and Emme. Next to them cuddled Alex's two daughters Ella, 10, and Natasha, 14.

'Gratitude today and always for every moment': Gigi Hadid certainly has a lot to be thankful for as she shared a gallery of photos she has taken with her mobile phone over the year

Time to give: Rande Gerber shared this cute snap of wife Cindy Crawford and their kids Kaia and Presley Gerber bringing food for Thanksgiving meals at Pepperdine University

Hamming it up: Kaia shared this snap of herself juggling two large slabs of meat

Bonding time: Eva Longoria shared a cute video of herself laying with her baby son Santiago Baston

'My little angel': The five-month old playfully put his hands on his mother face as she addressed her fans

'It's almost Turkey time, y'all': Reese seemed to be in the festive spirit as she shared this cute snap or herself setting the Thanksgiving table

Her own best advert: She plugged the collaboration between her company Draper James and furniture giant Crate And Barrel

Thank u, next meal: Ariana Grande shared this photo featuring a dog on Instagram Story

Always down for a good razz, John retweeted the burn and added 'Hahahahaha perfect.'

Chrissy responded to her husband with: 'SOMEONE HAD TO STAY HOME AND COOK FOR OUR CHILDREN AND FAMILY' The former Yankee bookended the group on the other side of the bed planting a kiss on Natasha's head.

The couple is preparing to spend a big family Thanksgiving together. Rodriguez shared a series of snaps on social media of their Hampton, New York home ready for the holiday.

Kate Hudson is also another celebrity spending her first Thanksgiving with a new child as she posted a video of her breast milk pump.

The 39-year-old actress - who welcomed daughter Rani Rose last month with boyfriend Danny Fujikawa - shared the clip with the caption: 'Thanksgiving day food prep (SOUND ON)

Best friends: Tom Brady posted an adorable photo of his eldest son- 11-year-old John Edward Thomas Moynahan - cuddling up with the family dog on the couch

'Love the Macy's parade!! Happy thanksgiving': The 41-year-old living legend quarterback also shared a picture from the comfort of his bed of the television

Sisterly love: Gisele also got in the act as she shared this cute picture with her sister

'These two are my greatest joy': Hilary Duff shared this cute snap of her eldest son Luca, six, holding four-week-old daughter Banks

Family fun: Kathryn Brolin shared this cute snap of her newborn son and hubby Josh Brolin

Just us: Lea Michele shared this cute photo of herself with fiancee Zandy Reich

Oh no: Cardi B shared a photo of the her baby Kulture's vomit on her clothes

Yum: Demi Lovato shared this image of her food just weeks after leaving rehab

'Thankful for the miracle of life and really working on gratitude for my pump #EffortCounts #RanisFirstTurkeyDay #HappyThanksgiving'

Kate also worked out for the first time since having a child as she posted a selfie boasting about a seven mile jog.

Julianne Hough was certainly in a festive mood as she donned autumn colors to participate in a Turkey Trot 5K for charity alongside husband Brooks Laich.

The 30-year-old former Dancing With The Stars pro sported a white long-sleeve event T-shirt along with a red, green, orange, and yellow tutu along with a turkey beanie.

Sultry: Sara Sampaio celebrated the holiday with some swimsuit photos

Wow factor: She shared this sexy snap of herself bathing on an island locale

Showing off: Busy Philipps put on quite the display in selfie featuring her sporting a patterned red bikini top

'Grateful for healthy kids': Busy shared this cute snap of her two daughters Birdie, 10, and Cricket, 5

Yum: Alicia Keys shared this cute video of herself in the kitchen

Thoughts: Jenna Dewan posted a note of thinks she is thankful for

Gigi Hadid certainly has a lot to be thankful for as she took to Instagram to share a gallery of photos she has taken with her mobile phone over the year.

She reflected on her blessings as she wrote the caption: 'Gratitude today and always for every moment, lesson, and person that has blessed my life and helped me forward... including all of you !

'Thank you always for your support and love !!!! Happy Thanksgiving to those celebrating :) x'

Tom Brady posted an adorable photo of his eldest son- 11-year-old John Edward Thomas Moynahan - cuddling up with the family dog on the couch.

The 41-year-old living legend quarterback also shared a picture from the comfort of his bed of the television with the caption: 'Love the Macy's parade!! Happy thanksgiving'

'ENDLESSLY THANKFUL': Heidi Klum shared this cute snap of her family making heart-shapes with their hands

Family fun: Kelly Ripa shared this cute family Thanksgiving photo from 2011

Awwdorable: Lauren Conrad shared this cute snap of husband William Tell with their one-year-old son Liam

She's got some front! Courtney Stodden shows off her assets in lacy lingerie

Those eyes: Hilary Duff's beau Matthew Koma shows off the couple's brand new bundle of joy, Banks

Happy Birthday kid: The adorable boy celebrated his one month "birthday" on Thursday

Before: Hilary looked radiant in a throwback photo of the expectant mother

Perfect: Truth Or Dare star Lucy Hale glammed up for her Instagram snap

Reasons to be thankful: Hale shows off her Thanksgiving spread

Good deeds: Kim Kardashian posed with Alice Johnson, the woman she helped set free from prison

Their big clan: Kim showed off the table setting for their family dinner, which had enough place settings for at least 18 people

Gobble Gobble: Kim also shared snaps showing off her lavish festive decorations

Flower power! Kardashian posted a photo of her table's floral decorations too

Giving thanks: The Kardashians posed for a holiday photo - which may replace their annual Christmas card given Kim has hinted that may be cancelled this year

Octomom: Kim Kardashian [center] can be seen here wrangling kids Saint and Chicago

Madonna: The Ray Of Light hitmaker celebrated her Thanksgiving in a musical setting

Thankful: Despite being apart from her family for the holiday, Khloe still expressed thanks to the generations of her family

What marital troubles? Khloe seemed to have forgiven Tristan's infidelity in her loved-up family snap

Daddy's girl: Little True seemed to be the spitting image of dad Tristan in this cute social media post

'Two dandy men': Neil Patrick Harris celebrated the holiday with his comedian friend Michael Serrato and husband David Burtka ordering their favorite foods from Instacart

All that Glitters: Mariah Carey prepared candied yams with twins Morrocan and Monroe while wearing a gold sequined jacket

====== 199 ========

ANDIE MACDOWELL WILL RETURN TO FOUR WEDDINGS AND A FUNERAL FOR NEW ROLE IN TV SHOW

It's been 24 years since she first starred in the romantic comedy Four Weddings And A Funeral alongside Hugh Grant.

And it seems like Andie MacDowell is more than happy to revisit the story, as it was revealed on Thursday that she will have a guest star role in a new series inspired by the British film.

According to Page Six, the actress, 60, will take on the role of a new character in the Hulu limited series, which is heading to the streaming service in 2019.

She's back! Andie MacDowell will RETURN to Four Weddings And A Funeral for new role in US TV show inspired by the film, it was announced on Thursday... 24 years after original's release

Andie will join Game Of Thrones star Nathalie Emmanuel, who plays the mystery lead role and replaces original choice Jessica Williams.

The series revolves around four American friends, Maya (Nathalie), Craig (Brandon Mychal Smith), Ainsley (Rebecca Rittenhouse) and Duffy (John Reynolds), who reunited at a wedding in London.

Andie is set to play Ainsley's mother Mrs. Howard, who will appear in the series intermittently as the cast try to weather a year of romance and heartbreak.

One more go: In the show Andie is set to play Mrs. Howard, the mother of one of the lead characters, after she played American beauty Carrie opposite Hugh Grant's Charles

Written and produced by Mindy Kaling and Matt Warburton, the film's director Richard Curtis will act as an executive producer, while the series will star Zoe Boyle, Jennie Jacques, Harish Pate land Guz Khan.

The original nineties movie followed lovable Englishman Charles (Hugh Grant), and his unlucky in love pals, as he becomes smitten with American beauty Carrie (Andie) when he meets her at a wedding he is best man for.

Despite spending the night together, he thinks she's not interested when she returns to the States and they don't see each other again until the second wedding.

A classic: The movie followed lovable Englishman Charles, and his unlucky in love pals, as he becomes smitten with Carrie when he meets her at a wedding he is best man for

There, she introduces him to her fiance, a wealthy politician, though the pair do end up spending another night together despite the revelation.

Though they seem destined to remain apart they continue to bump into one another at a handful of nuptials and one funeral.

It is only at Charles' wedding to Henrietta aka 'Duck Face' that he comes to realise he is actually in love with Carrie.

====== 200 ========

GABRIELLE UNION AND HUSBAND DWYANE WADE BEAM WITH PRIDE AS THEY ENJOY FIRST THANKSGIVING WITH KAAVIA

They welcomed their daughter Kaavia into the world on November 7.

And on Thanksgiving, Gabrielle Union shared a heartwarming family photo of her newborn and husband Dwyane Wade.

'Thankful and happy. Very thankful and very happy. Love to you and yours,' the 46-year-old actress captioned the image.

Growing family: On Thanksgiving Gabrielle Union shared a heartwarming family photo of her newborn daughter Kaavia and husband Dwyane Wade

Bliss: Gabrielle is enjoying every moment of motherhood as she shared this sweet snap on Thursday

Wade, who is away for the holiday, posted a similar photo.

'Thankful!!! My heart is so full. Happy Thanksgiving to everyone,' he wrote.

Dwayne spent Thanksgiving with his sons Zaire, 16, and Zion, 11 from his previous marriage to Siovaughn Funches.

'Thankful!!! My heart is so full. Happy Thanksgiving to everyone,' Wade captioned a similar family photo. The couple welcomed their daughter into the world on November 7

The Miami Heat player is also dad to son Xavier, five, whom he conceived with Aja Metoyer following a split from Gabrielle in 2013.

Gabrielle and Dwyane were married in 2014, but the Bring It On star wasn't sure she wanted children straight away.

'I never wanted kids,' she told PEOPLE. 'Then I became a stepmom, and there was no place I’d rather be than with them.'

Little miracle: Union and Wade gave birth via surrogate due to fertility issues

Union and Wade welcomed Kaavia via surrogate due to fertility issues.

In her book We're Going To Need More Wine, the Being Mary Jane star revealed that she'd suffered from 'eight or nine miscarriages.'

'For three years, my body has been a prisoner of trying to get pregnant — I've either been about to go into an IVF cycle, in the middle of an IVF cycle, or coming out of an IVF cycle,' she wrote.

====== 201 ========

FERGIE AND ESTRANGED HUSBAND JOSH DUHAMEL TAKE TURNS CELEBRATING THANKSGIVING WITH SON AXL

The Four: Battle for Stardom host Fergie shared a black-clad, mother-son snap on Thanksgiving twinning with her smiling boy Axl Jack.

The 43-year-old pop diva - who boasts 19.2M social media followers - captioned the image: 'Happy Thanksgiving! Feeling thankful for my Axl Jack!'

Fergie - who grew up in LA County - Insta-storied that she was celebrating turkey day with family and some marshmallow-infused sweet potato casserole.

'Feeling thankful for my Axl Jack!' The Four host Fergie shared a black-clad, mother-son snap on Thanksgiving twinning with her smiling boy Axl Jack

'#Mood': The 43-year-old pop diva - who grew up in LA County - Insta-storied that she was celebrating turkey day with family and some marshmallow-infused sweet potato casserole

But the Fergie Footwear designer's five-year-old blond child actually spent the fall holiday with her estranged husband Josh Duhamel in his snowy hometown of Minot, North Dakota.

The 46-year-old Daytime Emmy winner Insta-storied a clip of little Axl snacking on crackers at the buffet table during his family's low-key feast on Thursday.

The Unsolved heartthrob then puffed out his tummy to flaunt a post-turkey 'food baby' for the amusement of his 9.8M social media following.

Snowman: But Fergie's five-year-old blond child (L) actually spent the fall holiday with her estranged husband Josh Duhamel in his snowy hometown of Minot, North Dakota

'Wow mama!' The 46-year-old Daytime Emmy winner Insta-storied a clip of little Axl snacking on crackers at the buffet table during his family's low-key feast on Thursday

Football fan: The Unsolved heartthrob then puffed out his tummy to flaunt a post-turkey 'food baby' for the amusement of his 9.8M social media following

Split: Josh and the Fergie Footwear designer have remained amicable since announcing their legal separation in September 2017 after eight years of marriage

Josh and Fergie (born Stacy Ann Ferguson) have remained amicable - even embracing on November 15 - since announcing their legal separation in September 2017 after eight years of marriage.

Duhamel has since enjoyed a five-month fling with Welcome to Marwen actress Eiza González, which ended in July.

The Taco Bell brand ambassador will next uncover his family history in London on the 11th season of Who Do You Think You Are? premiering December 3 on TLC.

Headed to London! Duhamel will next uncover his family history on the 11th season of Who Do You Think You Are? premiering December 3 on TLC

The 6ft4in silver fox said in the preview: 'My ancestor inspired Shakespeare? Oh my god! I've never felt so noble in my life. This has been one of the most memorable experiences of my life'

'My ancestor inspired Shakespeare? Oh my god!' the 6ft4in silver fox gushed in the new preview.

'I've never felt so noble in my life. This has been one of the most memorable experiences of my life.'

And the eight-time Grammy winner will next headline the New Year's Eve bash happening at the Imperial Ballroom inside the Atlantis Bahamas resort on Paradise Island.

====== 202 ========

KALEY CUOCO HELPS RESCUE INJURED BABY SEAL ON THANKSGIVING AND SHARES VIDEO TO INSTAGRAM

She's well known for her love of animals.

And Kaley Cuoco spent part of her Thanksgiving on Thursday helping to rescue an injured baby seal.

She posted video to her Instagram explaining that she had been spending the day at her husband Karl Cook's parents' beach house when they came across the marine mammal who appeared to be in distress.

Kindhearted: She's well known for her love of animals. And Kaley Cuoco spent part of her Thanksgiving on Thursday helping to rescue an injured baby seal she found at the beach

Taped it: She posted video to her Instagram explaining that she had been spending the day at her husband Karl Cook's parents' beach house when they came across the marine mammal

The Big Bang Theory star, 32, wrote in the caption alongside the clip: 'So here’s what I’m grateful for ... at my in-laws beautiful beach house, Karl and I came across a baby seal who was obviously lost and in pain.'

'I called the 24 hour @cimwi___ (marine and wildlife hotline) and asked if someone could come help him. They promised me a volunteer but I was unsure it would happen since it’s Thanksgiving!' she wrote. 'A few hours later I noticed a group of volunteers huddled around the seal. They all showed up to help!!'

The actress concluded her post by saying: 'my heart is full and I’m thankful these gracious people left their thanksgiving plans to help an animal in need. Doesn’t get better than that.'

Rescue mission: 'I called the 24 hour @cimwi___ (marine and wildlife hotline) and asked if someone could come help him. They promised me a volunteer but I was unsure it would happen since it’s Thanksgiving!' she wrote. 'A few hours later I noticed a group of volunteers huddled around the seal. They all showed up to help!!'

Grateful: The actress added:'my heart is full and I’m thankful these gracious people left their thanksgiving plans to help an animal in need. Doesn’t get better than that'

Famous face: The Big Bang Theory star, 32, is one of the highest paid stars on television. Her sitcom is currently filming its 12th and final season

Kaley tied the knot with professional equestrian Karl last June.

She was previously married to former pro tennis player Ryan Sweeting from 2013 until 2016.

Her sitcom The Big Bang Theory began airing in 2007 and last month filming started filming on its 12th and final season.

====== 203 ========

BONO'S DAUGHTER EVE HEWSON REVEALS A POLICEMAN LOOKED UP HER SKIRT WHILE FILMING A SEX SCENE

Eve Hewson revealed a policeman once looked up her skirt while she filmed a sex scene in a candid interview with Story + Rain.

The daughter of U2 star Bono and activist Ali Hewson touched on how the #MeToo movement impacted her past experiences in the acting industry, insisting that she now has the power to 'speak up'.

Recalling the shocking incident, the Robin Hood actress, 27, said: 'I had to do a sex scene once outside in a car and like the policeman was there to help us film. He kept like walking into the shot and looking up my skirt.

Shock: Eve Hewson revealed a policeman once looked up her skirt while she filmed a sex scene in an interview with Story + Rain

'After a while I got out of the car and went up to him and said, I know what you’re doing, I see what you’re doing!

'I’ve been on set where crew members say things to you, whisper in your ear, follow you around', she shared.

MeToo is a social media movement against sexual harassment which grew following a wave of allegations against Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein.

Candid: The daughter of U2 star Bono and activist Ali Hewson touched on how the #MeToo movement impacted her past experiences in the acting industry, insisting that she now has the power to 'speak up' (pictured in Robin Hood with Taron Egerton)

Before the movement, Eve admitted she used to 'brush off' situations while filming on set, but now feels like she's gained 'the power and needs to speak up'.

'I’m over it and now I feel like I not only have the power to speak up but I need to speak up'.

Meanwhile, the Paper Year actress stars in Robin Hood as Marion, the protagonist's love interest and girlfriend of Will Tillman.

Speaking up: 'After a while I got out of the car and went up to him and said, I know what you’re doing, I see what you’re doing!', the screen star recalled on the shocking incident

Robin Hood tells the timeless story which charts a legendary heroic outlaw and his Moorish commander rising against the corrupt English crown.

Taron Egerton takes on the leading role as the infamous Robin Hood, Jamie Foxx plays his mentor Little John and Jamie Dornan stars as Hood's half-brother Will.

This is the latest incarnation of the character who derives from folklore, following on the back of a dark adaptation with Russell Crowe in 2010.

Before that came the version of the tale with Kevin Costner but by far the most famous version is Walt Disney's animated 1973 flick.

Honest: Before the movement, Eve admitted she used to 'brush off' situations while filming on set, but now feels like she's gained 'the power and needs to speak up'

Eve is the second eldest child of Bono, 58, and Ali, 57, who also share daughter Jordan, 29, and sons Elijah, 19, and John, 18.

Although having a rockstar as a father has its advantages, Eve previously told the Toronto Star that it's been 'hard' for her to establish herself from out of his shadow.

She shared: 'It’s been hard for me to establish myself independent from him, but I do think your work kind of speaks for itself. People respond to you. That all sort of fades away.

'I’m hoping that happens with Paper Year and with the next few movies that come out.'

Famous family: Eve is the second eldest child of Bono, 58 (second from left), and Ali, 57 (left), who also share daughter Jordan, 29 (far right), and sons Elijah, 19, and John, 18 (pictured together in November 2016)

====== 204 ========

KENYA MOORE CUDDLES HER 'MIRACLE' PREMATURE BABY BROOKLYN AS SHE ENJOYS FIRST THANKSGIVING AS A MOM

Kenya Moore has plenty to be thankful for on Thanksgiving, particularly her 'miracle baby' Brooklyn.

The Real Housewives of Atlanta star took to Instagram on Thursday to share a new snap of her holding the newborn Brooklyn, who was born premature on November 4.

'Thank God for my miracle baby, my husband and my life,' she said, referring to Brooklyn and her husband Marc Daly. 'When you have faith in Him all things are possible.'

Thankful Kenya: Kenya Moore gives thanks for her 'miracle baby' on Thanksgiving

'Happy Thanksgiving from the Dalys,' she added, along with the hashtags #love, #family, #brooklyndaly

Brooklyn Doris Daly was born on November 4, weighing 5 lbs. and 12 oz.

She was conceived through in vetro fertilization with an emergency C-section after she tested positive for the pregnancy complication preeclampsia.

Healthy mom: Brooklyn Doris Daly was born on November 4, weighing 5 lbs. and 12 oz

Moore told People in early November that her daughter Brooklyn Doris Daly was named after two important people in her life.

'Brooklyn because that’s where we met and fell in love, and Doris after my grandmother who passed away last year and who raised me,' Moore said.

She took to Instagram just before the birth, sharing a new photo and a heartfelt message.

Happy and healthy: Moore told People in early November that her daughter Brooklyn Doris Daly was named after two important people in her life

'If you want to make God laugh have a plan... won't be long now. Pray for us,' Moore said, adding the hashtag #babydaly #weloveyou #prayers.

She also took to Instagram after the birth, thanking People for sharing their story.

'She's so perfect and strong! Marc was incredible in the deliver room,' she said. 'I lost a lot of blood so I'm very weak but they both were strong for me.

New mom: She also took to Instagram after the birth, thanking People for sharing their story

'God is so good. We are blessed and doing well,' Moore added.

'My heart is so full at the abundance of love for our family! We love you all,' she concluded.

Moore started modeling at just 14 years of age before becoming just the second African-American woman to win the Miss USA pageant in 1992.

====== 205 ========

HALSEY LOOKS SMITTEN AS SHE LOCKS EYES WITH ROCKER YUNGBLUD FOLLOWING SPLIT FROM G-EAZY LAST MONTH

She split from rapper G-Eazy last month.

And Halsey appears to have bounced back from any heartbreak as she was spotted looking dotingly at British musician Yungblud on Tuesday night.

The 24-year-old singer looked close to the 20-year-old rocker, who was born Dominic Harrison, as they were seen leaving Milk Studios in Hollywood.

New romance? Halsey appears to have bounced back from any heartbreak as she was spotted looking dotingly at British musician Yungblud on Tuesday night

The Without Me hitmaker flashed a lot of leg in a high-split maxi dress, which was cinched at the waist by a leather belt.

She was carrying a bouquet and small white gift bag - as well as her own handbag.

Her hair was in her trademark striking crop, quiffed up at the front - to give her a good look at her handsome companion.

Eye got this: The 24-year-old singer looked close to the 20-year-old rocker, who was born Dominic Harrison, as they were seen leaving Milk Studios in Hollywood

The star - whose real name is Ashley Nicolette Frangipane - locked eyes with the British alternative rocker.

'There was a limo outside Milk Studios and at about 6:30 Halsey came out,' an eyewitness told E! News of the pair.

They added: 'It was so obvious there was something going on, they were so close. She was definitely feeling him, from what I could see it definitely seemed there was an attraction.'

Leggy display: The Without Me hit-maker flashed a lot of leg in a high-split maxi dress, which was cinched at the waist by a leather belt

Contact: The star - whose real name is Ashley Nicolette Frangipane - locked eyes with the British alternative rocker

Stunning: Her hair was in her trademark striking crop, quiffed up at the front

Glow: She looked stunning and radiant in his company

'There was a limo outside Milk Studios and at about 6:30 Halsey came out,' an eyewitness told E! News of the pair

The eyewitness added: 'It was so obvious there was something going on, they were so close. She was definitely feeling him, from what I could see it definitely seemed there was an attraction'

Looks smitten: She took a good look at her handsome companion

Got presents: She was carrying a bouquet and small white gift bag - as well as her own handbag

Their eyewitness added: 'They went to In-N-Out Burger, picked up food through drive-through and headed to her house.'

G-Eazy and Halsey split up for the second time in October. They had reunited in August after originally dating from around 2017 to July of this year.

He appeared to have moved on when he was seen out with Christina Roseann Ray.

Meanwhile, Halsey made a statement last week when she encouraged women to be fearlessly 'inconvenient' while presenting her own poem Inconvenient Woman during Glamour's 2018 Women Of The Year Summit in New York.

'Brutally honest, outspoken and fearless. Goes with their gut, never favors appearance,' the talent's rhyme began.

Her poem continued: 'Cause who has time for vanity with opponents to extinguish? And don't you think that hint of silver hairline is…distinguished? In men, all these qualities, they make you a genius. But if you're a woman, you're an inconvenience.'

====== 206 ========

OLIVIA COLMAN EMBRACES HER ROLE AS 'UGLY, BEAUTIFUL' QUEEN ANNE IN THE FAVOURITES

Olivia Colman has absolutely no recollection of having studied Queen Anne, the last monarch of the House of Stuart, at school. ‘I really would have sat up and listened,’ she said, with genuine feeling. ‘She’s fascinating!’

She certainly is, at least as portrayed by Colman in director Yorgos Lanthimos’s brilliant and funny Film4 gem The Favourite, which opens here on New Year’s Day, but is already generating palace-loads of Oscar and Bafta buzz.

Anne is part of a love triangle that also includes Sarah Churchill, Duchess of Marlborough, a childhood friend who gained undue influence over the monarch; and Abigail Masham, a lowly cousin of Churchill’s who blags a job in the court.

Olivia Colman as Queen Anne in director Yorgos Lanthimos’s brilliant and funny Film4 gem The Favourite

Those two women, who were to become rivals for the Queen’s affections, are played, respectively, by Rachel Weisz and Emma Stone.

‘It’s supposed to be true that Anne was in love with Sarah Churchill, and they had a relationship,’ Colman told me. ‘There were letters, and there was talk at the time.’

The actress, whose diverse output includes Rev, Broadchurch and The Night Manager on TV and Murder On The Orient Express and The Lobster (an early Lanthimos film) on the big screen, says everything about Anne astounds her. ‘Having 17 children and losing them all at various stages is just horrific. And to carry that pain, that heartache — the mental pain and the physical pain she was in every day — is extraordinary. So, yeah, I would have remembered if we’d done her at school.’

Anne was a hobbling health hazard, suffering from gout and poor eyesight.

‘People would make the most of her illnesses and manipulate her, I suppose to get their own needs met,’ said Colman. ‘She was patronised and spoiled.’

But Anne is not totally weak. Colman invests her with a streak of savviness. ‘Once she gets given the opportunity to speak, she realises: “Hang on a minute. I’m not as rubbish as I thought I was.”’

Lanthimos and the screenwriters take the facts of Anne’s reign and subvert them in the most deliciously wicked way. ‘Feminists and non-feminists will love this story,’ she told me. ‘These are ugly, beautiful women. Proper flawed humans, as all humans are.’

The film opens on New Year’s Day, but is already generating palace-loads of Oscar and Bafta buzz. Pictured: Rachel Weisz and Olivia Coleman, right

Colman wears hardly any make-up in the movie and was happy to put on weight — though less happy to put real beef steaks on her legs to ‘cure’ her gout. ‘Yes, it was quite unpleasant,’ she agreed.

The male characters, on the other hand, got to wear lots of make-up and wigs.

‘Nick Hoult is about 8ft tall in heels and wig,’ Colman said, of the actor who plays Robert Harley, first Earl of Oxford and leader of the Opposition. ‘His make-up was very pretty. No one could look at Nick. We could only look at his forehead, because we couldn’t make eye contact. We were on the verge of giggling, permanently, with him.’

She said she got the blues when filming ended. ‘I loved it so much. Yorgos is genuinely a genius. The company was fun. It’s full of filth and sex . . . it’s got everything,’ she sighed.

Including rabbits. Seventeen of them, which Lanthimos used to represent the children Anne lost. Were they animatronic?

Emma Stone plays Abigail Masham, a lowly cousin of Churchill’s who blags a job in the court

‘Oh no, they were real rabbits,’ Colman said. ‘Real, incontinent rabbits.’

Did that cause any issues?

‘Well, yes. When they were in the bed with you, they just wee-d.’

The rabbits had a high old time at Hatfield House, where The Favourite was filmed.

‘They had lots of lovely space. They would just nod off and fall asleep, and cuddle up in those lovely hutches.

‘And they had a ball when they were out of the hutches. The crew had to use little fences to corral them.

‘They ran round and round the room and the crew had to try to kettle them.’

She and Emma Stone fell for one floppy-eared creature which they dubbed Strawberry, after the rabbit she voices in the BBC/Netflix three-part adaptation of Watership Down.

Speaking of Netflix, Colman’s main day job now is to portray our present Queen, Elizabeth II, in the third and fourth series of The Crown, taking over the pomp and circumstance from Claire Foy.

There are no comparisons between the two, she said, ‘apart from the “queen” in the title of their names...that’s where the similarities end’.

====== 207 ========

DICK VAN DYKE REVEALS HAD TO PAY WALT DISNEY $4K TO PLAY BANKER MR DAWES SR IN ORIGINAL MARY POPPINS

He's best known for the role of chimney sweep Bert in the 1964 classic Mary Poppins.

But Dick Van Dyke revealed that he had to pay Walt Disney to land a cameo in the original, as the banker Mr. Dawes Sr.

The actor - who turns 93 next month - explained in a Special Edition of 20/20 on Thursday, that he had to persuade his film boss to give him the second role in the movie.

Financial incentive: Dick Van Dyke revealed that he had to pay Walt Disney to land a cameo in the original, as the banker Mr. Dawes Sr.

Speaking to Lin Manuel Miranda - who plays Jack, a lamplighter and former apprentice to Bert in forthcoming movie Mary Poppins Returns - Dick told him had to financially persuade Disney to allow him to portray the film's banker, Mr. Dawes Sr., as well as Bert.

'You know, when they made me up as the old man in the old one, I had to go to Walt [Disney] and ask him for the part, he didn’t give it to me,' the veteran actor explained.

'I said, "I’ll do it for nothing." Actually, I had to give him $4,000 dollars. I had to pay him to do the part,' he recalled.

Worth it! Speaking to Lin Manuel Miranda - who plays Jack, a lamplighter and former apprentice to Bert in forthcoming movie Mary Poppins Returns - Dick told him had to financially persuade Disney to allow him to portray the film's banker

Much loved: He's best known for the role of chimney sweep Bert in the 1964 classic Mary Poppins

That's also him! He paid to play a cameo in the original, as the banker Mr. Dawes Sr.

'And I’d do it again,' he added.

Lin pointed out to the much-loved star that many viewers don't realise he is also the grumpy old banker, who is George Banks' boss.

In the upcoming sequel, Mary Poppins Returns, Van Dyke returns to play the son of Mr Dawes Snr.

Revelation: The actor - who turns 93 next month - explained in a Special Edition of 20/20 that he had to persuade his film boss to give him the second role in the movie

Paid Walt! I had to give him $4,000 dollars. I had to pay him to do the part,' he recalled

Excitement: He told Hamilton creator Miranda of his delight of a sequel being created

He explained: 'I got excited, of course, that there was going to be one, and, of course, my first question was: "Can I be in it?"'

He told Hamilton creator Miranda of his delight of a sequel being created.

'I got excited, of course, that there was going to be one, and, of course, my first question was: "Can I be in it?"'

Taking place years after the original, the musical sequel, which is due for release next month, follows the lives of grown-up Jane (Emily Mortimer) and Michael Banks (Ben Whishaw).

He's back! In the upcoming sequel, Mary Poppins Returns, Van Dyke returns to play the son of Mr Dawes Snr

After the death of Michael's wife, Poppins - played by Emily Blunt - returns to help raise the new generation of Banks children, enlisting help from street lamplighter Jack (Miranda).

The Rob Marshall-directed film also stars Meryl Streep, Julie Walters, Colin Firth, Pixie Davies, Joel Dawson, Nathanael Saleh, Angela Lansbury and David Warner.

Mary Poppins Returns: Behind the Magic – A Special Edition of 20/20 will air on Thursday, Nov. 22 on ABC at 8 p.m. ET.

Dick Van Dyke has four children, and is married to second wife Arlene Silver, 46.

The Chitty Chitty Bang Bang star has also won five Primetime Emmys, a Tony and a Grammy Award.

====== 208 ========

JAMES CORDEN FLUNKS MAGIC TEST WITH EDDIE REDMAYNE IN HILARIOUS LATE LATE SHOW SKIT

He has reprised his role as Newt Scamander in new movie Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindlewald.

And to celebrate the new release in the series derived from the Harry Potter novels, Eddie Redmayne teamed up with James Corden in a hilarious magic-inspired skit for The Late Late Show.

The actor, 36, was a far cry from his shy and nervous onscreen character, as Eddie channelled a hard-nosed ministry official that put James to the test, as Corden attempted to bag his magic license.

Hilarious: James Corden tries to impress a hard-faced Eddie Redmayne as he flunks a magic test in an amusing skit for The Late Late Show

In the amusing skit, a cocky James aka 'Mr Magnificent the Master of Mystery' was seen trying to charm Redmayne into providing him with his license to lawfully practice magic - only for everything to go wrong.

Clad in a cape and shirt and bow-tie, James was certainly dressed to impress for the magic test and even tried sweet-talking Redmayne with a number of innuendos, as the test took place.

Redmayne asked to see the star's wand before the test got underway, with James stifling a giggle and hilariously replying: 'Cheeky, you'll have to buy me dinner first.'

He was then seen trying to impress Redmayne with a slew of traditional magic tricks that included pulling a never-ending hankie out of his pocket and seamlessly producing a bouquet of flowers from his sleeve.

Is that you, Newt? Eddie was a far cry from his shy and nervous onscreen character, as he channelled a hard-nosed ministry official that put James to the test

Funny: In the amusing skit, a cocky James aka 'Mr Magnificent the Master of Mystery' was seen trying to charm Redmayne - only for everything to go wrong

Not impressed: Redmayne asked to see the star's wand before the test got underway, with James stifling a giggle and hilariously replying: 'Cheeky, you'll have to buy me dinner first'

Showcasing his dance moves as he launched into his routine of cheesy magic, James was seen blowing glitter into an unimpressed Redmayne's face before inviting his glamorous assistants into the room and tragically throwing a dove straight into a ceiling fan.

Despite trying to provide glitz and glamour with a number of not-so-seamless tricks, James failed to win over harsh critic Redmayne, who didn't hold back when it came to sharing his thoughts on the host's performance.

'You are a joke. I don't know how you got here, but you clearly, clearly don't know anything about real magic,' he scowled.

'How dare you,' James hit back, before adding: 'I demand an apology!'

But that only angered Redmayne more, as he said: 'Apology? How about you apologise to the poor dove?

Unimpressed: Eddie wasn't so taken with James' crude innuendos and cocky persona

Nice try: Launching into a routine of cheesy magic, James was seen blowing glitter into an unimpressed Redmayne's face and unveiling a flower bouquet from his sleeve

'Anyone can do what you're doing. You're prancing around Magnificent, what's this?' he says, before then imitating Corden's dance moves.

'You failed, you are a disgrace to magic and you deserve absolutely no part in the wizarding community,' Eddie tells a disgruntled James.

Upset with the decision, James demands to see the 'old guy with the beard... W Dubs... weirdy beardy guy, he knows magic when he sees it' as he struggles to recall Dumbledore's name - only for Redmayne to then turn him into a piglet.

In Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald, Redmayne is reprising his role as Newt Scamander, a Magizoologist who is enlisted by Albus Dumbledore (Jude Law) to help him capture the villainous Gellert Grindelwald (Johnny Depp).

The film is set in the Harry Potter universe and finds Grindelwald seeking to gain power and divide 'pureblood' wizards from humans in 1920s Paris.

All for show: Despite trying to provide glitz and glamour with a number of not-so-seamless tricks, James failed to win over harsh critic Redmayne

Oops: The star was hilariously seen throwing a dove into a fan as he attempted magic

Harsh: Redmayne didn't hold back as he told James, 'You are a joke. I don't know how you got here, but you clearly, clearly don't know anything about real magic'

Flunked it! Hitting him where it hurts, Eddie revealed James had failed as he said: 'You are a disgrace to magic and you deserve absolutely no part in the wizarding community'

Talking about his role, Eddie told Graham Norton: 'When you get to be in JK Rowling's world, you suddenly get a wand - you've pretty much waited all your life for this moment and you think you are going to be a pro at it, but you really don't know what to do with it.

'So, I actually got a movement coach to help me work out how to use it - whether to do it over the top or minimal - we really studied it.'

Speaking to Collider, Eddie added that he thinks Rowling is 'extraordinary' and was pleased to see the Fantastic Beasts franchise extended from three films to five.

He said: 'It was the first [franchise] that I'd done. And I was lucky enough before to be cast as Newt, to have read the first film. So I knew what I was getting into.

'You do put a huge amount of your future years and work experience, and work ethic in someone else's hands, but what was wonderful for me was, if you're gonna invest in a creative, there is no one as extraordinary, imagination wise, as Jo. And so, it's been pretty thrilling.'

Although not knowing what is in store for his character has left Eddie curious.

New release: In Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald, Redmayne is reprising his role as Newt Scamander, a Magizoologist

Star-studded cast: He is joined by Jude Law (who plays Albus Dumbledore), Zoe Kravitz and Johnny Depp as the villainous Grindelwald

He added: 'There are things we know from the books, we know that Newt's great grandson marries Luna Lovegood.

'So there are some snippets that we know, but we don't know how on earth we get there. And because I'm a control freak, part of me is desperate to know, and the other part of me has quite loved just, like, rescinding all that.'

Zoe Kravitz portrays Newt's former love interest Leta Lestrange, who he studied with at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.

Returning cast members include Katherine Waterston as Auror Tina Goldstein, Alison Sudol as Queenie, Dan Fogler as Jacob Fowalski and Ezra Miller is back as Credence.

Johnny Depp, meanwhile, plays the villainous Grindelwald.

====== 209 ========

MACY'S BLAMES 'TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES' FOR RITA ORA LIP SYNC FAIL DURING THANKSGIVING DAY PARADE

Rita Ora was roasted on Twitter following her lip sync fail at the Thanksgiving Parade on Thursday in NYC.

Hours later however, it was corporate host Macy's who claimed responsibility for the poor performance.

'During today's parade, several recording artists experienced technical difficulties that negatively impacted their performance,' the department store tweeted. 'We apologize and want fans to know these issues were out of the artist's control.'

Technical difficulties: Rita Ora was roasted on Twitter following her lip sync fail at the Thanksgiving Parade on Thursday in NYC

Public apology: Hours later, Macy's claimed responsibility for the poor performance

Ora, 27, was caught lip syncing on TV when her track, Let You Love Me, played roughly five seconds ahead of her.

The UK native waved and smiled obliviously as she mouthed the words along with the music coming from her in-ear monitors that didn't match the loud speakers.

Directors were forced to cut to wide angle shots in an attempt to distract viewers from the glitch.

Epic fail: Ora, 27, was caught lip syncing on TV when her track, Let You Love Me, played roughly five seconds ahead of her. The UK native waved and smiled obliviously as she mouthed the words along with the music coming from her in-ear monitors

TV illusion: Directors were forced to cut to wide angle shots in an attempt to distract viewers from the glitch

John Legend, who was also called out for lip syncing, jumped to his fellow performer's (and his own) defense.

'Fun fact. We all have to lip sync on this parade because the floats don't have the capacity to handle the sound requirements for a live performance,' he tweeted.

'Hope y'all enjoyed it anyway. Know that if you come to my shows, the vocals are 100% live!'

Me too: John Legend, who was also called out for lip syncing, jumped to his fellow performer's (and his own) defense on Twitter

Fun fact: 'We all have to lip sync on this parade because the floats don't have the capacity to handle the sound requirements for a live performance,' he tweeted

Shortly afterward, Rita tweeted a similar statement.

'@johnlegend thank you for clarifying. It’s annoying for us but anyway!' she tweeted. '

'All my shows are 100 percent live always have been! When you come to an ORA show get ready! Back to holidays! Have a good one guys! :) X'

United front: Shortly after John, Rita tweeted a similar statement

Ouch: Twitter was quick to mock the singer, with the Miss J reaction meme quickly rolled out

Nevertheless, Twitter users couldn't help but ridicule the parade performances.

'I was almost 90% sure that I am existing in reality, but after seeing Rita Ora lip sync her song off cue on a Krazy Glue float I’m not so sure,' one posted.

'Watching Rita Ora fail at lip syncing and the camera people having to cut away from her made my #MacysDayParade,' added another.

'Happy Thanksgiving to the fine folks in the NBC control room who keep panning away from Rita Ora’s face because her lip-synch is off by a solid four bars,' posted a third.

====== 210 ========

JOHN MALKOVICH TRANSFORMS INTO THE POPE IN FIRST LOOK PICTURES AS HE FILMS THE NEW POPE IN ITALY

It was revealed earlier this year that John Malkovich would be joining Paolo Sorrentino's The New Pope series following the success of The Young Pope with Jude Law in 2016.

And now first look pictures have shown John Malkovich transform into character as the Pope as he filmed scenes on the famous Vatican balcony at St. Peter's Basilica in Italy on Thursday.

The Being John Malkovich actor, 64, looked worlds away from his usual attire as he donned a white choir dress, mozzetta, gold pectoral cross, two gold Fisherman's rings and a white zucchetto skullcap.

Unrecognisable: First look pictures have shown John Malkovich transform into character as the Pope as he filmed scenes on the famous Vatican balcony at St. Peter's Basilica in Italy on Thursday

John looked every inch the supreme pontiff as he stood on the famous Vatican balcony at St. Peter's Basilica with a red papal flag draped over the ledge.

The actor's character appeared to be filming scenes where he was giving an 'Urbi et Orbi' to the crowds below him, as he stood on the balcony with a microphone in front of him and he outstretched his arm.

However, the busy schedule appeared to catch up with John as he could be seen yawning on set and later he lifted up his white choir dress to flash a pair of bottle green trainers.

Leading star: The Being John Malkovich actor, 64, looked every inch the supreme pontiff as he stood on the famous on the famous Vatican balcony at St. Peter's Basilica with a red papal flag draped over the ledge

It is not known what John's official role will be in the upcoming series or whether Jude Law, who played Pope Pius XIII in The Young Pope, will be reprising his role after the character's future was left uncertain in the 2016 season.

According to Variety, The New Pope will not be a 'second series of The Young Pope' but instead a 'second limited series set in the world of the modern papacy'.

Filming for The New Pope has already started in Italy, Paolo Sorrentino has created the series with Umberto Contarello and Stefano Bises.

HBO and Sky announced the follow-up to acclaimed limited series The Young Pope in May 2017, with Sky Italia chief of content Andrea Scrosati saying: 'Just like The Young Pope, Sorrentino is writing the script for the new show, but it will have a different twist than what would be expected.'

Supreme Pontiff: The actor's character appeared to be filming scenes where he was giving an 'Urbi et Orbi' to the crowds below him, as he stood on the balcony with a microphone in front of him and he outstretched his arm

Unknown: It is not known what John's official role will be in the upcoming series or whether Jude Law, who played Pope Pius XIII in The Young Pope, will be reprising his role after the character's future was left uncertain in the 2016 season

In The Young Pope, Jude Law starred as Lenny Belardo, who became the first American pope in history and took the name Pius XIII, his character was hell-bent on turning the world of the Vatican upside down.

The Alfie actor, 45, even received a Golden Globe nomination for his role as Pope Pius XIII, joining the likes of Ewan McGregor and Robert De Niro in the star-studded nominations.

The world premiere of The Young Pope was on 3 September 2016 at the 73rd Venice Film Festival, the first time a television show was part of the program.

The cast of the 10-part series also included Diane Keaton, Silvio Orlando and James Cromwell.

====== 211 ========

ASHLEY GRAHAM SENDS FAMILY TO DISNEYLAND ON NEW WEB SERIES FEARLESS PRODUCED BY THE ELLEN SHOW

Ashley Graham launched Fearless—a new web series produced by The Ellen Show—on November 14.

And on Wednesday's episode, the 31-year-old model sent two single parents and their kids to Disneyland.

'I get to help people gain the confidence that they need to take the next step in their life, to be totally, unapologetically fearless,' Graham can be heard saying in the intro.

Surprise! Ashley Graham sent two single parents and their children to Disneyland in an episode of her series Fearless

Gift of giving: Ashley Graham launched Fearless—a new web series produced by The Ellen Show—on November 14

Graham introduces viewers to Seth—a single dad of four—during episode three.

Seth, who lives in Georgia, is dating Sarah, a mom of three from Philadelphia.

The couple met online after Sarah discovered Seth's parenting blog: Who Put My iPad In The Dishwasher.

Match making: Graham introduces viewers to Seth—a single dad of four—during episode three. Seth, who lives in Georgia, is dating Sarah, a mom of three from Philadelphia

Seth sat down with Ashley to discuss his budding relationship with Sarah, explaining why he's chosen to take it slow.

'A transition from a single dad to a blended family—there's a lot of people to consider,' he said. 'Plus we've both been through divorces. It's the worst.'

Following their one-on-one chat, Seth watched a heartfelt video from Sarah.

Second shot at love: Seth sat down with Ashley to discuss his budding relationship with Sarah, explaining why he's chosen to take it slow. 'A transition from a single dad to a blended family—there's a lot of people to consider,' he said

'My first impression of him was: this is an amazing dad,' she said. 'In our family we don't go around problems, we go through them and Seth just completely embodies that.'

Sarah continued: 'If there was one thing I could say to Seth right now, it would be "thank you." Because I didn't realize what was missing from my life until you came. You brightened it and I hope I've done the same for you because you deserve it.'

Seth then confessed to Graham that he was 'in love' with Sarah.

Declaration of love: Following their one-on-one chat, Seth watched a video from Sarah. 'I didn't realize what was missing from my life until you came. You brightened it and I hope I've done the same for you because you deserve it,' she said

On Ashley's command, Seth's kids came running onto set.

The family of five were then joined by Sarah's family of four.

'Surprise!' she said, jumping into Seth's arms.

The video came to a close as Ashley announced that both families would be going to Disneyland on Ellen's dime.

====== 212 ========

KYLIE JENNER PLANTS SWEET SMOOCH ON STORMI IN RARE FAMILY SNAP WITH TRAVIS SCOTT FOR THANKSGIVING

She became a mother for the first time on February 1.

So no doubt Kylie Jenner has a little more to be grateful for this holiday season.

The 21-year-old make-up mogul took to Instagram on Thursday to share an adorable family snap featuring boyfriend Travis Scott and their nine-month-old daughter Stormi.

'thankful.': Kylie Jenner took to Instagram on Thursday to share an adorable family snap featuring boyfriend Travis Scott and their nine-month-old daughter Stormi

Kylie could be seen kissing the bouncing baby girl on the cheek as she kept the caption simple by writing: 'thankful.'

The family could be seen matching in all black as they cuddled close for the rare family picture.

The youngest of the Kardashian-Jenner sisters did accessorize her simple look with several pieces of jewelry including large band rings and diamond earrings.

Look of love: The 21-year-old stunner shared another cute snap of herself cuddling with Stormi

No days off: She later promoted her 2018 Kylie Calender which drops on Friday morning

Lap of luxury: She teased the upcoming calendar with this photo of herself sitting in a bright orange luxury car

Her peroxide-blonde tresses were worn down as she accentuated her looks with smokey eye and shiny lip.

Stormi looked cherubic as her hair was put up in two small buns.

Travis, 26, looked down as he showed off his blonde braided locks as he sported two large diamond encrusted chains and stud earrings.

No doubt the Keeping Up With The Kardashians star can't wait to grub on the holiday as she took to Twitter on Wednesday to write: 'can’t wait to eat my body weight in thanksgiving food tomorrow.'

In the spirit: The Keeping Up With The Kardashians star posted several Thanksgiving-related tweets to share with her 25.7 million followers on Wednesday

Happy together: Kylie and Travis pictured together at the Met Gala in New York City back in May

Sweet: Kylie shared a cute video of Travis kissing Stormi backstage at his Astroworld Festival in Houston over the weekend

Kylie is definitely in the spirit of the holiday as she expressed her gratitude to her 25.7 million followers as she wrote: 'Thankful for you guys.'

As she makes sure to donate food every year to people in need she also shed some light on her giving side.

The Kylie Cosmetics owner wrote: 'but on that note i feel very thankful i was able to provide thanksgiving meals this year to people in need of one. it’s important we spread the love [heart emoji].'

No doubt Kylie's family can't wait to get together to celebrate together as the several members of the clan took to social media ahead of the big dinner.

Peddle to the metal: No doubt Kim Kardashian is prepping herself for a big night of eating as she took to her Instagram Stories to share a video of herself getting a bike ride in

Safety first: A female companion said something to Kim to which she responded: 'I'm trying. Don't distract me. Happy Thanksgiving everyone!

Kris Jenner took to Instagram to share a throwback snap of the entire brood together on the holiday.

The 63-year-old momager wrote: 'Happy Thanksgiving Guys!!! I am so thankful for all of you. Thank you for all of your love and support always... what a gift life is.

'Enjoy every precious moment.... I am so thankful for and cherish these 6 amazing blessings and all of my beautiful grandchildren... I give thanks to God every single day. I love you'

No doubt Kim Kardashian is prepping herself for a big night of eating as she took to her Instagram Stories to share a video of herself getting a bike ride in.

Yum: Kylie later took to Instagram Story to show off their meal preparation

What's cookin'? The mother-of-three showed off the turkey and ham in the oven

Before the rise: There were also dishes of cornbreads set to be placed in the oven

A female companion said something to Kim to which she responded: 'I'm trying. Don't distract me. Happy Thanksgiving everyone!

Later on in the day Kourtney shared Instagram Story videos of their meal preparations.

The mother-of-three showed off the turkey and ham in the oven and cornbread sitting out before cooking as she bragged about her pancake-making skills.

Kylie even gave joined in on the fun as her 39-year-old half sister shared a video of her working on the candied yams.

Helping hand: Kourtney Kardashian shared this video of Kylie preparing the candied yams

Finishing touches: Kylie said that marshmallow will be the last thing put on the dish

Meanwhile their sister Khloe Kardashian is nearly on the other side of the country as she took baby True to Cleveland to spend the holiday with Tristan Thompson.

The 34-year-old gave a sneak peek inside their celebration with fans on Instagram.

Tristan also documented part of the day on an Instagram live video. Khloe was dressed in a stylish pink and purple outfit, but appeared subdued.

She had earlier told fans that she had spent the morning 'cooking my heart out' and dubbed herself 'Chef Koko'.

Putting on a brave face: The mother-of-one appeared subdued while Tristan filmed her. The star is said to be struggling with what to do about her relationship with the NBA star

Put her daughter first: Khloe Kardashian took daughter True to Cleveland to spend Thanksgiving with Tristan Thompson

====== 213 ========

CATE BLANCHETT SHOWS OFF HER QUIRKY SENSE OF STYLE AS SHE LEAVES SOHO HOUSE IN LONDON

She's Hollywood royalty and is set to take the stage in an exclusive show in London in January.

And Cate Blanchett, 49, was enjoying a rare night off from work as she left exclusive private members' club Soho House in London on Thursday evening.

The Lord of the Rings star paired a brown and black chequered coat with pink tinted glasses as she wrapped up warm from the autumnal chill.

Chic: Cate Blanchett, 49, showed off her quirky sense of style in pink glasses and a tweed coat leaving Soho House in London on Thursday evening

Cate teamed her coat with a pair of sexy leather trousers and heeled black boots.

The actress also wore an androgynous black velvet shirt, with a high neckline.

The British-Australian star placed her belongings in a monogrammed brown overnight leather bag embroidered with her initials 'C B' .

Effortlessly cool: Adding a touch of cool to the look, Cate wore a pair of sexy leather trousers and a heeled black boot and carried a monogrammed brown leather bag

Adding to her natural beauty, Cate added a pop of colour to her lips with a deep rose gloss, and extended her eyelashes with a light lick of mascara.

The star's outing comes as it was announced she will be starring in When We Have Sufficiently Tortured Each Other in the West End, alongside Game of Thrones star Stephen Dillane.

The play 'explores the messy, often violent nature of desire and the fluid, complicated roles that men and women play', according to the National Theatre.

It is based on Samuel Richardson's 1740 novel, Pamela, during which 'six characters act out a dangerous game of sexual domination and resistance'.

All tickets are balloted, and cost between £10 to £58.

It has been a busy creative period for Cate, with the two-time Oscar winner recently signing on to star in the new FX limited series Mrs America.

Created and written by Mad Men co-producer Dahvi Waller, the nine-episode series will feature Cate as activist Phyllis Schlafly, who led the fight against the movement to ratify the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA).

Exciting new role: The star's outing comes as it was announced she will be starring in When We Have Sufficiently Tortured Each Other in the West End

The ERA is a proposed amendment to the US Constitution stating that equal rights may not be denied on the basis of one's sex.

The amendment was passed by the US Congress in 1972 but failed to win the backing of enough states.

'Through the eyes of the women of that era ... the series explores how one of the toughest battlegrounds in the culture wars of the '70s helped give rise to the Moral Majority and forever shifted our political landscape,' FX said in a statement.

Mrs America, which will begin production next year, will mark the actress' first role in a US television program.

'I feel privileged to have this opportunity to collaborate with Dahvi, Stacey (Sher) and Coco (Francini) under the robust and fearless FX umbrella,' Cate recently said in a statement.

'I am extremely excited about delving into the material as there couldn't be a more appropriate time to peel back the layers of this recent period of history, which couldn't be more relevant today.'

====== 214 ========

MARGOT ROBBIE ADMITS HER FRIENDS WON'T LET HER IN THE KITCHEN AFTER SHE BURNED THE YAMS

She's an acclaimed actress, having nabbed an Academy Award nomination for her turn in I, Tonya.

But Margot Robbie is less successful as a chef, having set not one but two Thanksgiving meals ablaze, the 28-year-old told USA Today on Thursday.

The Suicide Squad star revealed that last year she was in charge of cooking the yams during a Thanksgiving meal with friends, and 'lit them on fire, literally'.

She's on fire: Margot Robbie is less than successful as a chef, having set not one but two Thanksgiving meals ablaze, the 28-year-old told USA Today on Thursday. Seen here earlier this month

The Mary Queen Of Scots star revealed that even after setting the sweet potatoes on fire last year, 'this year we’re dividing up who’s cooking what and I was like, 'I’d really like to give the yams a go again!'

'And last Christmas I lit the ham on fire,' admitted the Australian actress.

However, her friends denied her request, saying 'We want to be able to eat the food, we don’t want it to be charcoal and just have nothing.'

'But yeah, I suck in the kitchen,' concluded Robbie.

Chk chk boom: The Suicide Squad star revealed that last year she was in charge of cooking the yams during a Thanksgiving meal with friends, and 'lit them on fire, literally'

The acclaimed actress is set to transform herself in two forthcoming film performances.

In Mary Queen Of Scots, the Queensland, Australia born actress dons a red wig, prosthetics and white face paint to play Queen Elizabeth the First, cousin of Queen Mary Stuart, in a remarkable physical transformation.

Meanwhile, Margot is set to reprise her Suicide Squad role of Harley Quinn in the recently announced Birds of Prey (And The Fantabulous Emancipation of One Harley Quinn).

====== 215 ========

DOLCE & GABBANA CO-FOUNDERS SAY SORRY TO CHINESE PEOPLE IN MANDARIN AFTER 'RACIST' AD SPARKS BOYCOTT

The founders of Italian fashion house Dolce & Gabbana asked for China's 'forgiveness' as a row over racially offensive posts snowballed, with its products pulled from lucrative Chinese e-commerce platforms.

In an attempt to salvage their reputation in the world's most important luxury market, Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana capped a 1 minute 30-second mea culpa by saying 'sorry' in Mandarin in a video posted on YouTube and Chinese social media platform today.

The Italian fashion house cancelled a marquee show in Shanghai on Wednesday after celebrities and social media users called for a boycott over the brand's latest advertising campaign which showed a Chinese model eating pizza, spaghetti and a cannoli with chopsticks that many deemed culturally insensitive.

In an attempt to salvage their reputation in the world's most important luxury market, Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana capped a 1 minute 30-second mea culpa by saying 'sorry' in Mandarin in a video posted on YouTube and Chinese social media platform today

In the brand's latest ad campaign video, the Chinese model was seen trying to eat pizza with a pair of chopsticks, which net users deemed racist and disrespectful

The blunder was compounded when screenshots were circulated online of a private Instagram conversation, in which designer Stefano Gabbana made racist remarks about China. He immediately said his account had been hacked

The blunder was compounded when screenshots were circulated online of a private Instagram conversation, in which designer Stefano Gabbana makes a reference to 'China Ignorant Dirty Smelling Mafia' and uses the smiling poo emoji to describe the country. The company immediately said Gabbana's account had been hacked.

The furore is a setback for one of Italy's best-known fashion brands in China, where rivals from Louis Vuitton of LVMH to Kering's Gucci are vying to expand.

Chinese buyers account for more than a third of spending on luxury goods worldwide, and are increasingly shopping at home rather than on overseas trips.

In the video apology, Gabbana and Dolce said they had 'reflected seriously' and were saddened by the impact of their words.

Stefano Gabbana (left) has been accused of racism after screengrabs of an alleged row on Instagram showed him making derogatory comments about China and Chinese people

The prints of Stefano Gabbana's Instagram post having written 'Not Me' are seen on the window of a Dolce & Gabbana store in Shanghai. He was denying ever saying derogatory remarks about China on Instagram and said his account had been hacked

'Our families always taught us to respect different cultures across the world and because of this we want to ask for your forgiveness if we have made mistakes in interpreting yours,' Dolce, speaking in Italian, said in the video of the two designers seated side-by-side.

'We want to say sorry to all Chinese across the world, of which there are many, and we are taking this apology and message very seriously,' Gabbana added. 'We will never forget this experience and lesson, and this sort of thing will never happen again.'

The designers ended the clip by saying 'dui bu qi' - 'sorry' in Mandarin.

The video with Chinese subtitles was posted on China's Twitter-like platform, Weibo.

It's not the first gaffe by Dolce & Gabbana in China, where the brand came under fire on social media last year for a series of advertisements showing the grungy side of Chinese life.

Workers remove signs that read 'Dolce & Gabbana The Great Show', at the Shanghai Expo Center after the fashion show by the luxury fashion brand was cancelled in Shanghai

Shoes are displayed at a Dolce & Gabbana shop in Beijing. Some customers had returned Dolce & Gabbana items amid the spiralling backlash over the brand's newsest ad campaign

Other upsets have come and gone in China without appearing to cause lasting damage, including at brands like Kering's Balenciaga, which apologised in April amid a backlash over how some Chinese customers had been treated in Paris.

However, the crisis for Dolce & Gabbana showed no sign of easing on Friday. Retailer Lane Crawford said it would pull the brand from its stores and online sites in mainland China and Hong Kong after customers had returned Dolce & Gabbana items.

Searches for Dolce & Gabbana turned up no items Thursday on major online retailers such as Alibaba's Tmall and JD.com while pages that previously linked to the brand's products were unavailable.

Cross-border e-commerce site Yangmatou said on Weibo it had taken 58,000 D&G products down, adding that 'the Motherland is more important than anything else.'

The controversy arose after Dolce & Gabbana posted short clips on Instagram showing a Chinese woman eating pizza, spaghetti and a cannoli with chopsticks that some deemed culturally insensitive

A Dolce & Gabbana store in Shanghai. The brand has cancelled a high-profile runway show on Wednesday amid a racism row over its new ad campaign and designer Stefano Gabbana

Shoes with the heels made out of figurines representing Italian fashion designers Domenico Dolce (left) and Stefano Gabbana are displayed at a store in Beijing

Video circulating on Weibo shows people protesting outside D&G's flagship store in Milan on Wednesday night holding the print 'Not Me', which Gabbana had posted when he denied ever making the remarks in direct messages on Instagram.

Celebrities including 'Memoirs of a Geisha' movie star Zhang Ziyi criticised the brand, while singer Wang Junkai and model Dilraba Dilmurat said he had terminated an agreement to be the brand's ambassador.

Most of the comments posted under the apology video on Weibo were also critical.

'We don't have to accept your apology. Go and make money in other countries, there's none for you here in China,' one user wrote.

====== 216 ========

'OUR TEARS HAVE TURNED TO SMILES!' PREGNANT TAMMIN SURSOK OPENS UP ABOUT DEVASTATING MISCARRIAGE

There's only a few weeks to go before she welcomes her second child with husband Sean McEwen.

And on Thursday, Tammin Sursok shared her difficult journey to her latest pregnancy, recalling her devastating miscarriage last year in an emotional social media post.

Sharing a touching picture with her husband and five year-old daughter Phoenix, the mother of one bravely wrote: 'Last year on Thanksgiving I was pregnant.

'Our tears have turned to smiles!' Heavily pregnant Tammin Sursok (right) opened up about devastating miscarriage as she prepares for the arrival of her second child with producer husband Sean McEwen (left)

'I’ve actually been pregnant for a VERY long time (more on that later) but this year looks different.

'And I’m so grateful that our tears have turned to smiles. Remember.....'the path from dreams to success does exist,' she added.

'May you have the vision to find it, the courage to get on to it, and the perseverance to follow it. Happy Thanksgiving my loves.'

Earlier this year, she took to social media to open up about having jitters over her second pregnancy.

Mum life: The Pretty Little Liars star has been documenting her pregnancy journey on Instagram

'Can't believe we will be here again in a few short months. Excited and petrified!' she wrote.

'Any second time mums out there feel the same?!' she added.

The Pretty Little Liars star revealed she suffered a loss in early December last year.

'Excited and petrified!' Earlier this year, she took to social media to open up about having jitters with her own second pregnancy

Expecting: Tammin announced in early September that she was expecting her second child

'It’s been hard for me to be on social media this week. We have been going through something as a family and it’s hard to mask what we are feeling,' Tammin wrote.

'Last week was the first time I've experienced loss. That's as much as I'm going to say right now but I do want to write about what we have been through at some point to help anyone who is also going through it,' she added.

Tammin announced in early September that she was expecting her second child with husband Sean McEwen and they share daughter Phoenix, 5.

====== 217 ========

SOFIA VERGARA CELEBRATES HER THIRD WEDDING ANNIVERSARY TO JOE MANGANIELLO

They married in a fairytale ceremony three years ago.

And Sofia Vergara paid loving tribute to her husband Joe Manganiello as they celebrated their anniversary on Thursday.

The actress, 46, posted a picture to Instagram, showing her kissing the neck of the Magic Mike hunk.

Three years! Sofia Vergara paid loving tribute to her husband Joe Manganiello as they celebrated their anniversary on Thursday

'Happy Aniversary love of my life!!!!' (sic) she captioned, followed by 14 hearts.

The couple appear to be in a bar and Joe has wrapped a muscular arm around the Modern Family star.

In return, Joe posted a message to his love on Twitter.

Pretty: Sofia was looking as fabulous as ever as she was spotted out and about in Los Angeles on Wednesday

'Thankful that three years ago today I made the best decision of my life...,' he scribed.

Meanwhile, Sofia was looking as fabulous as ever as she was spotted out and about in Los Angeles on Wednesday.

She teamed a classic white T-shirt with blue jeans, as she stepped out in perspex heels.

Classic style: She teamed a white T-shirt with blue jeans

Elevated: The Modern Family beauty she stepped out in perspex heels

The Colombian mother of one enhanced her natural beauty with a smokey eye and crushed raspberry lip.

Vergara is currently in the midst of production of the final season of her hit sitcom Modern Family.

Along with her final season of Modern Family, Vergara has also appeared in two movies this year.

She starred alongside Karl Urban and Andy Garcia in Bent and with Tim Roth, Alice Eve and Maggie Q in The Con Is On.

She will also star with her husband Manganiello in Stano, a true story adaptation in theaters next year.

From 1991 to 1993, Sofia was wedded to her high school beau Joe Gonzalez, by whom she shares 26-year-old son Manolo.

The Barranquilla-born bombshell then went on to marry her second and current husband in Florida's chichi Palm Beach on November 22, 2015.

====== 218 ========

HILARY DUFF'S SON LUCA CRADLES MONTH-OLD BABY SISTER BANKS ON THANKSGIVING

Younger actress Hilary Duff shared an adorable picture of her son Luca Cruz cradling his baby sister Banks Violet on Thanksgiving.

The 31-year-old mother-of-two - who boasts 23.9M social media followers - captioned the sweet sibling snap: 'These two are my greatest joy. #gratefulEVERYDAY'

Not only was the blonde Texan enjoying turkey day, she was also celebrating the one-month birthday of her infant princess with babydaddy Matthew Koma.

'These two are my greatest joy. #gratefulEVERYDAY': Younger actress Hilary Duff shared an adorable picture of her son Luca Cruz cradling his baby sister Banks Violet on Thanksgiving

'4 weeks since our special gift arrived!' Not only was the 31-year-old mother-of-two enjoying turkey day, she was also celebrating the month-old birthday of her infant princess with babydaddy Matthew Koma

Hilary knew it would take a bit for her six-year-old boy (from her four-year marriage to retired NHL star Mike Comrie) to get used to the idea he's no longer an only child.

'The beginning was a little... he was surprised,' Duff laughed during the June 12 episode of The Late Late Show with James Corden. 'And now he's warming up to the idea.'

The former Disney Channel star brined the bird then their pal Josh Abraham deep-fried the turkey in their backyard.

The GlassesUSA collaborator Insta-storied a snap of the PULSE Music Group CEO rocking a white paper hat alongside her 31-year-old musician beau.

'He's warming up to the idea': The blonde Texan knew it would take a bit for her six-year-old boy (with ex-husband Mike Comrie) to get used to the idea he's no longer an only child

Hungry? Hilary brined the bird then their pal Josh Abraham (L) deep-fried the turkey in their backyard

Cheers! Duff Insta-storied a snap of the PULSE Music Group CEO (L) rocking a white paper hat alongside her 31-year-old musician beau (R)

Hilary reportedly had an at-home, 'natural drug-free' water birth on October 25 and she subsequently drank her placenta in a smoothie.

Duff and the pink-haired Long Islander originally dated for three months in December 2016, before rekindling their on/off romance in September 2017.

Before Koma (born Bair), the Who Do You Think You Are guest star romanced SOLr Energy Consulting CEO Ely Sandvik and celebrity trainer Jason Walsh.

'The bean helping me in the kitchen': The former Disney Channel star reportedly had an at-home, 'natural drug-free' water birth on October 25 and she subsequently drank her placenta in a smoothie (pictured Wednesday)

'Banks...you gotta try harder': The GlassesUSA collaborator and the pink-haired Long Islander originally dated for three months in 2016, before rekindling their on/off romance in 2017 (pictured last Saturday)

Next Monday, The Talk guest co-host launches her limited-edition capsule collection of 'hoodies and harems' with Little Moon Society, which was co-founded by her big sister Haylie.

Hilary doesn't resume her role ambitious Empirical Press book editor Kelsey Peters in the sixth season of Younger until next year on the Paramount Network.

Meanwhile, Matthew's band Winnetka Bowling League just dropped their live music video for On The 5, and they kick off their eight-date tour January 12 at the Crescent Ballroom in Phoenix.

'Four more days!' Next Monday, Hilary launches her limited-edition capsule collection of 'hoodies and harems' with Little Moon Society, which was co-founded by her big sister Haylie

====== 219 ========

LIV TYLER GOES MAKEUP-FREE AS SHE HEADS THROUGH HEATHROW DEPARTURES

She has made a home for herself in London with her British partner Dave Gardner and their children.

But Liv Tyler, 41, was keen to get back to the US in time to catch some of the Thanksgiving celebrations on Thursday, as she was spotted heading through Heathrow airport in London en route to Maine.

The actress showed off her natural beauty as she went make-up free for her Transatlantic flight.

Homeward: Liv Tyler, 41, was keen to get back to the US in time to catch some of the Thanksgiving celebrations on Thursday, as she was spotted heading through Heathrow airport

Travelling solo, Liv looked effortlessly chic in head to toe black, teaming leather boots with a cosy coat.

She added black rimmed spectacles and wheeled her own luggage through departures, sorting out her liquids at security.

Liv ditched the glam makeup, and left her long dark locks loose.

Low key: On her way to Maine, the actress showed off her natural beauty as she went make-up free for her Transatlantic flight

Cold welcome: Her cosy outfit was certainly welcomed once she landed in Maine, as Liv shared Instagrams of the ice and freezing temperatures that greeted her

Her cosy outfit was certainly welcomed once she landed in Maine, as Liv shared Instagrams of the ice and freezing temperatures that greeted her.

For the past four years, Liv has been in a relationship with sports agent Dave Gardner, with whom she shares son Sailor, three, and daughter Lula, two.

The family spend most of their time in Dave's native London, but regularly travel home to see Liv's loved ones, including her dad, Aerosmith frontman Steve Tyler.

In addition to Sailor and Lula, Liv also has a 13-year-old son called Milo by Spacehog frontman Royston Langdon, whom she was married to from 2003 to 2008.

Liv is presently appearing in the second season of Harlots, starring Samantha Morton as brothel owner, Margaret Wells, struggling to raise her daughters in London during the 18th century.

====== 220 ========

LISA RINNA, HARRY HAMLIN AND DELILAH HAMLIN VOLUNTEER TO SERVE TURKEY DINNERS ON THANKSGIVING

Before their own Thanksgiving dinner, Lisa Rinna, her husband Harry Hamlin and daughter Delilah Hamlin volunteered to serve dinners to the less fortunate.

Rinna, 55, Hamlin, 67, and Delilah, 20, all donned blue hats and aprons while volunteering for Project Angel Food.

The organization was established in 1989, whose mission is to prepare and deliver, 'healthy meals to feed people impacted by serious illness, bringing comfort and hope every day.'

Family volunteers: Lisa Rinna, daughter Delilah Hamlin and husband Harry Hamlin volunteer to deliver meals to the less fortunate on Thanksgiving day

Lisa was clad in a black long-sleeved shirt and dark blue jeans, with daughter Delilah wearing a similar long-sleeved shirt and track pants.

Hamlin was donning a black shirt under a long-sleeved North Face top and blue jeans.

Rinna also took to her Instagram story to document her time as a Project Angel Food volunteer.

Helping hand: Lisa Rinna was clad in a black long-sleeved shirt and dark blue jeans, with daughter Delilah wearing a similar long-sleeved shirt and track pants

'What a perfect way to start out Thanksgiving, at Project Angel Food,' Rinna exclaimed.

'Here we are! We're gonna serve some meals, here we go,' Rinna added in the video, which ended with Rinna greeting her daughter and another friend named Richard.

The second video showed some of the other volunteers at the Project Angel Food facility, one of whom was New Girl star Lamorne Morris.

Husband and wife: Hamlin was donning a black shirt under a long-sleeved North Face top and blue jeans

'Look at everybody,' Rinna said in the second video, pointing out more volunteers.

'We're packing up Thanksgiving meals,' she said, before running into Lamorne Morris, who held up a "peace" sign for the camera.

Project Angel Food has handed out more than 11.5 million meals since it was established in 1989, with over 11,000 meals per week.

Helping out: 'Look at everybody,' Rinna said in the second video, pointing out more volunteers

Rinna's daughter: Rinna and Hamlin have been married since 1997, with Delilah the oldest of their two daughters, with their youngest child, Amelia, 17, born in June 2001

Rinna and Hamlin have been married since 1997, with Delilah the oldest of their two daughters, with their youngest child, Amelia, 17, born in June 2001.

Rinna started her career as a model and actress, appearing in over 300 episodes of the hit soap opera Days of Our Lives.

She joined the cast of Bravo's Real Housewives of Beverly Hills in its fifth season.

Rinna modeling: Rinna started her career as a model and actress, appearing in over 300 episodes of the hit soap opera Days of Our Lives

====== 221 ========

LUCY HALE GRABS A COFFEE WITH FRIEND ANNIE LEONARD BEFORE WHIPPING UP A THANKSGIVING FEAST

Before getting together with friends for Thanksgiving, Lucy Hale and friend Annie Leonard got their coffee fix.

Hale, 29, was spotted with her longtime friend getting their java fix, and later they shared photos on social media, cooking a feast for friends.

The actress and her friend were both sporting casual looks as they headed out on Thanksgiving morning.

Friends with coffee: Lucy Hale and longtime friend Annie Leonard were spotted on Thursday grabbing coffee

The Life Sentence star was seen wearing a black sports bra under a fuzzy black coat, with green and black leggings.

She also had a black hat that read Los Angeles, with black sandals, while carrying her coffee in one hand and her keys and a Gucci wallet in the other.

Leonard, a TV producer who has worked on Dance Moms and Welcome to My World, was wearing a red stocking hat, white NASA shirt, black pants and checkered black and white shoes.

Lucy getting coffee: The Life Sentence star was seen wearing a black sports bra under a fuzzy black coat, with green and black leggings

Hale also took to Instagram to share her Thanksgiving cooking adventures.

Yesterday on her Instagram story, Hale and Leonard discovered that the turkey they picked up for Thanksgiving was frozen.

She then shared a photo that revealed she 'brined the turkey over night.

Coffee run: She also had a black hat that read Los Angeles, with black sandals, while carrying her coffee in one hand and her keys and a Gucci wallet in the other.

Hale's pooch: Hale also shared a snap on her Instagram story of her holding up her adorable dog in front of a meat and cheese tray, with the caption, 'Thankful'

Hale also shared a snap on her Instagram story of her holding up her adorable dog in front of a meat and cheese tray, with the caption, 'Thankful.'

She also shared a photo with herself and Breiter cooking the feast, before a final shot with all of her friends that came together for the dinner.

Hale and Leonard were joined by Drew Osborne, Josh Cole, Marissa Littlell, Jordan Kuker, Nicoles Cole and Chris George.

Gal pals: She also had a black hat that read Los Angeles, with black sandals,

'I’m not thankful that Drew can’t get out of my light but I am thankful for friends who feel like family when I can’t be with mine,' Hale shared in her Instagram post, along with a heart emoji.

Hale recently signed on to star in the Fantasy Island remake with Michael Pena and Portia Doubleday.

She is currently filming A Nice Girl Like You.

Leonard, a TV producer who has worked on Dance Moms and Welcome to My World, was wearing a red stocking hat, white NASA shirt and black pants

====== 222 ========

LAUREN CONRAD SAYS SHE'S THANKFUL FOR HUSBAND WILLIAM AND SON LIAM AS SHE CELEBRATES THANKSGIVING

She found fame on reality show The Hills.

And on Thursday, Lauren Conrad shared what she is thankful for this Thanksgiving.

It turns out it's her husband William Tell and one-year-old son Liam.

She posted a sweet snap of the two taken at the beach and wrote: 'Feeling pretty thankful for these two (and pie) today! Wishing everyone a wonderful Thanksgiving!'

Posted to Instagram: On Thursday, Lauren Conrad shared what she is thankful for this Thanksgiving. It turns out it's her husband William Tell and one-year-old son Liam

Lauren married her lawyer and musician husband in September 2014.

They welcomed their first child in July 2017.

She recently told InStyle she's still figuring out how to be a parent.

'I try to be strict on some things, but my little boy is so cute I'm a little bit of a pushover sometimes, too,' she explained. 'I'm trying to find a balance between both. I'm picking my battles.'

Thankful: Lauren, who found fame on the MTV reality show The Hills, married her lawyer and musician husband in September 2014. They welcomed their first child in July 2017

MTV has rebooted the reality show that made Lauren famous.

But she decided not to reunite with her former co-stars, with a source telling People that Lauren is 'in a different place in her life.'

Those who have signed up for the new series, though, included Audrina Patridge, Heidi Montag and Spencer Pratt with their son Gunner, Stephjanie Pratt and Whitney Port.

====== 223 ========

NICOLE KIDMAN BANS HER YOUNG DAUGHTERS FROM WATCHING HER LATEST ROLE IN DESTROYER

Tortured: Kidman won’t let her girls see her new film

Nicole Kidman said her youngest daughters are forbidden from seeing a film in which she plays a self-destructive ‘tortured soul’ of a policewoman.

‘It’s a raw, complicated and, hopefully, compelling film,’ the 51-year-old actress said of Destroyer, in which she gives a gripping performance as an undercover drugs detective whose life is shattered after an operation goes awry.

Her character, Erin Bell, becomes trigger-happy and damaged. ‘She can handle a gun — and handle herself — if she’s attacked, but there’s a woman underneath who’s full of rage.

‘She destroys those who go after her, and she’s destroying herself. I don’t want my girls to see this,’ she said, referring to Sunday Rose, ten, and Faith, seven, her daughters with husband Keith Urban.

She thought for a moment and added: ‘It sounds like there’s wholesale violence, but there isn’t. Erin can shoot like she was born to shoot. But there’s nothing gratuitious.’

She rubbed her hands and added: ‘OK, the girls can see it — when they’re over 21.’

The ravaged, emaciated Erin is a mother herself, and throughout the film is ‘trying to make amends to her own daughter’.

‘She’s saying: “You don’t want to end up like this,” ’ Kidman said.

Director Karyn Kusama’s film, which opens here on January 25, was made on a low budget and there were no frills. ‘It was a crazy ride, taking on such a part at this stage of my life and career,’ Kidman admitted. ‘But I connected to her because she’s a mother, and I wasn’t scared that she was pumped up full of alcohol and drugs because I’ve seen that.’

‘It’s a raw, complicated and, hopefully, compelling film,’ the 51-year-old actress said of Destroyer (pictured in the film)

We were chatting at the headquarters of the British Academy of Film and Television Art. Kidman, Urban and their daughters had stopped off in London en route to Australia to spend Thanksgiving there.

Soon, though, they will head home to Nashville, where her singer-songwriter husband does most of his work. The actress is keeping busy, too. She’s filmed the second season of Big Little Lies with Reese Witherspoon and Meryl Streep. A comedy called The Upside, which she made with Bryan Cranston and Kevin Hart, will be released in the New Year.

And she has a small role in Aquaman (which her daughters will be able to see).

‘Destroyer is the first lead I’ve done in a long time,’ she said. ‘I’ll do a day or a week or two on a film if I believe in the project. I have no airs and graces about any of that. I’m a working actor.’

Watch out for...

- Stanley Townsend, right, who will play Addison DeWitt, the vicious theatre critic who gets the measure of ruthless Eve Harrington in All About Eve, the story of an unknown who wants to supplant reigning Broadway star Margo Channing.

Stanley Townsend will play Addison DeWitt, the vicious theatre critic who gets the measure of ruthless Eve Harrington in All About Eve

The film version starred Bette Davis, Anne Baxter, George Sanders and Marilyn Monroe, below right.

A stage version, directed by Ivo van Hove and starring Gillian Anderson, Lily James and Townsend, begins performances at the Noel Coward on February 2, taking over from current occupant The Inheritance (which won writer Matthew Lopez the Evening Standard’s award for best play). Eve has sold close to £3 million worth of tickets already.

- Raquel Cassidy, Tara Fitzgerald, Justine Mitchell, Khalid Abdalla, Fisayo Akinade, Risteard Cooper, Elliot Cowan and Adam James, who are in the ensemble company of American playwright Anne Washburn’s new play Shipwreck, described as a ‘nightmarish comedy’ about Donald Trump in Washington DC. Rupert Goold will direct at the Almeida Theatre, London from February 12.

- Christian Bale and Amy Adams, who are giving masterclass performances as Dick Cheney (George W. Bush’s number two in the White House) and his wife Lynne in Adam McKay’s unmissable film Vice (which is out here on January 25).

Cheney was doing the most extraordinary things, in plain sight, when he was vice president. It’s a movie about how to attain power in the most underhand way.

====== 224 ========

PREGNANT MEGHAN MARKLE WAS DESPERATE TO SHARE BABY NEWS AT HUBB KITCHEN

She gripped Meghan's hands and said she was 'so happy' about baby news

One of the women asked about visit to Australia, Meghan said it was 'all good'

The Duchess of Sussex enjoyed a sweet moment with women from the Hubb Community Kitchen as they shared their joy over pregnancy for the first time.

Meghan, 37, visited the kitchen in West London yesterday to meet with survivors of the Grenfell Tower tragedy who she collaborated with on the Together: Our Community Cookbook.

And as she caught up with one delighted woman who embraced the Duchess and asked about her pregnancy, she admitted: ‘I wanted to tell you last time I saw you!’

As soon as the Duchess got inside, she abandoned formality and threw her arms around each of the women and kissed them, chattering excitedly about what they had been up to since she last saw them.

One delighted woman who embraced the Duchess during her visit to the Hubb Kitchen in West London said she was so happy, prompting Meghan to admit she'd wanted to share the news previously

One of the women was eager to find out how Meghan was coping with her pregnancy and asked her: 'How was your journey to Australia?'

'Yes it was great, it was all good,' she replied.

Glancing at Meghan's baby bump, she gripped the Duchess' hands and told her: 'I'm so happy.'

At that point, Meghan smiled and admitted that she'd previously struggled to keep the news to herself.

One woman asked Meghan about her recent trip to Australia and gripped Meghan's hands as she congratulated her on her baby news

Meghan speaks with chef Clare Smyth (right) as they visit the Hubb Community Kitchen in West London this morning

Meghan warmly hugs Ms Sufyaan, the kitchen coordinator and one of her collaborators on the book

The Duchess is in the second trimester of her pregnancy and is looking forward to welcoming her first child with Prince Harry in the Spring.

Meghan went to the Hubb Community Kitchen, not far from the site of the deadly tower block blaze in West London, to see first hand the progress made since the Together cookbook went on sale in September.

Wearing a burgundy dress and coat by Club Monaco, a Canadian company now owned by US fashion giant Polo Ralph Lauren, Meghan soon put on an apron, rolled up her sleeves and got stuck into helping prepare food.

Meghan, Duchess of Sussex posed for a group photo with members of the Hubb Community Kitchen in London after making private visits to the group and collaborating on a charity cookbook

She said to a group of women: 'It starts from one idea and from this one idea starts so much. I'm so proud of you.'

The book - full title Together: Our Community Cookbook - took the number one spot on Amazon within hours of being unveiled two months ago and has since sold nearly 40,000 copies in the UK, raising £210,000.

Bumper sales of the cookbook, which features more than 50 recipes from women whose community was affected by the fire, have allowed a total makeover of the kitchen as well as longer opening hours.

Meghan, whose first baby with Prince Harry is due in the spring, held her bump as she chatted to the chefs at the Hubb Kitchen

Meghan, who suggested the idea of a fundraising cookbook when she first met the women, has previously described it as a 'tremendous labour of love'.

The kitchen, redesigned with the women's input to capture its spirit as a place for the community to come together over meals, now opens seven days a week, up from just two when it began last year.

Those involved have also been able to obtain food hygiene qualifications and been empowered to start their own projects for the benefit of the wider community.

====== 225 ========

CHERYL 'BEATEN BY CAROLINE FLACK TO COVETED CHICAGO STAGE ROLE'

Cheryl reportedly lost out on a Chicago stage role to Caroline Flack.

The Love Made Me Do It singer, 35, allegedly got through to the last stages to play Roxie Hart in the current London production - but was beaten by the Love Island host, 39.

Bosses eventually decided to go with Caroline because they grew tired of Cheryl's 'diva requests', sources claimed.

Rumour has it: Cheryl reportedly lost out on a Chicago stage role to Caroline Flack

The Sun has reported that Cheryl had long harboured ambitions of playing the iconic part of Roxie, first made famous by Renee Zellweger in the Oscar-winning 2002 film.

It will reportedly be Caroline's first leading role in the West End and she will allegedly start rehearsing once she has filmed the Strictly Come Dancing Christmas special.

A representative for Caroline declined to comment. MailOnline has contacted a spokesperson for Cheryl.

Alexandra Burke is currently playing the role of Roxie, with Blue singer Duncan James taking on Billy Flynn.

Claims: The Love Made Me Do It singer, 35, allegedly got through to the last stages to play Roxie Hart in the current London production - but was beaten by the Love Island host, 39

Allegations: Bosses eventually decided to go with Caroline because they grew tired of Cheryl's 'diva requests', sources claimed

It comes after Cheryl's fans noticed a striking similarity between her new single Love Made Me Do It and Paul Young's Love Of The Common People.

The singer has being accused of copying the Eighties hit by some listeners, causing the music legend to wade into the debate, telling his followers he 'doesn't hear it'.

It comes after the former Girls Aloud band-member was criticised for performing a 'raunchy' routine and live vocals during her musical comeback on the X Factor last Sunday.

Coincidence? It comes after Cheryl's fans noticed a striking similarity between her new single Love Made Me Do It and Paul Young's Eighties hit, Love Of The Common People

A source told The Sun: 'It's been a big talking point in the music world how Cheryl's song has huge similarities to Love Of The Common People.

'When you play both the songs' verses side by side they're nearly identical and have the same rhythm and feel to it.

'It's quite embarrassing for Cheryl, especially given she's trying to portray herself as an innovative songwriter.'

Inspiration: The singer has being accused of copying the Eighties hit by some listeners, causing the music legend to wade into the debate, telling his followers he 'doesn't hear it'

Cheryl is one of the songwriters to receive a credit on the track, alongside best bal Nicola Roberts, singer Natasha Bedingfield and five others.

After being inundated with tweets about the similarities Paul responded: 'I have to say, quite a few people have said this but I'm not getting it!'

Other listeners took to Twitter in their droves.

One wrote: 'Hope @PaulYoungParlex is getting some beer tokens for @CherylOfficial new song? Sounds canny familiar to love of the common people just adding a very poor wardrobe'.

Similiarities: After being inundated with tweets about the similarities Paul responded: 'I have to say, quite a few people have said this but I'm not getting it!'

Meanwhile, another wrote: 'It is just me of does the new Cheryl song (love made me do it) sound a lot like your hit @PaulYoungParlez love of the common people. Especially the verses'.

Another typed: 'Is Cheryl's new single just Love of the Common People?', with a different listener chiming: 'When I hear the new Cheryl song I hear Paul Young's track 'Love of the common people'. Very similar to me.'

MailOnline has contacted Cheryl's representatives for comment.

The singer will take to the stage on Sunday to perform her newest single Love Made Me Do It, though a tweet also seems to hint she will perform her 2009 classic Fight For This Love.

The mother-of-one will be hoping to turn around public opinion with the Manchester show, after the backlash surrounding her X Factor show.

Cheryl was criticised for performing a 'raunchy' routine on the family friendly show, and her live vocals also didn't go down well with some of her fans.

Controversial: Cheryl was criticised for performing a 'raunchy' routine on the family friendly show, and her live vocals also didn't go down well with some of her fans

At time of publication, Love Made Me Do It sat at number 19 in the Official Singles Chart, number 62 on Apple's Chart, number 74 in Apple's UK Chart. She did not appear in the Top 200 or Viral Top 50 on Spotify.

Despite this, Spotify gave the star a nod in its 'Hot Hits' category, which Cheryl gave a nod to on her Instagram stories by thanking the streaming service.

Touching on her fluctuating position, sources told The Sun: 'It's dropping down the rankings fast this week despite it being her big comeback. It could easily end up falling further by the time the final charts are unveiled on Friday.'

After becoming aware of the mixed reviews, Cheryl herself posted an impassioned message on Twitter on Tuesday, defending herself, after her performance garnered 45 Ofcom complaints.

Gorgeous: Cheryl was looking sensational in edgy black sunglasses on Thursday as she took to Instagram while prepping for her next live performance in Hits Radio Live in Manchester

She said that her single might not be to everyone's taste, but she had watched back the performance and loved it, despite claims she had been left devastated over the negative comments she received about her live vocals.

In a strongly-worded message, the singer did admit that her music and performances 'aren't for everyone.'

The Twitter post read: 'I wanted to start by saying thank you all so much for your lovely comments and support for my performance on Sunday. You may not have read about them but I definitely saw and felt them!'

She continued: 'Having spent 16 years in the public eye I have always been accepting of people's opinions. Me personally, my music and performances are never going to be for everyone, And that's OK.'

Cheryl ended the message by addressing reports she has been watching her performance back on repeat, writing: 'Ps.... I did watch my performance back and I LOVED IT!'

====== 226 ========

CHANNING TATUM HAS A DAY OUT WITH HIS DAUGHTER EVERLY AT THE HAPPIEST PLACE ON EARTH DISNEYLAND

Channing Tatum treated his daughter to a magical day at the Happiest Place on Earth on Wednesday.

The 38-year-old actor, who split from wife Jenna Dewan earlier this year, was spotted having a blast with Everly, five, at Disneyland, California.

Doting dad: Channing Tatum took daughter Everly to Disneyland on Wednesday

Channing looked every inch the doting dad, as he dressed in functional cargo pants and a black T-shirt.

He carried a backpack and covered his head with a baseball hat.

Everly captured the magical mood of their day, as she sported a bright pink princess costume after getting her hair done at the Bippity Boppity Boutique.

Daddy's princess: Channing looked every inch the doting dad, as he dressed in functional cargo pants and a black T-shirt

The two rode many of the parks rides including the Alice in Wonderland ride, and the Matterhorn rollercoaster, which Everly didn't end up enjoying too much.

Everly is the daughter of Jenna and Channing Tatum, who separated earlier this year after nine years of marriage.

Last month, she filed for divorce in a Los Angeles courtroom, seven months after they jointly announced their split.

Having fun: The two rode many of the parks rides including the Alice in Wonderland ride

Daddy day out: Everly is the daughter of Jenna and Channing Tatum, who separated earlier this year after nine years of marriage

Upfront: Everly didn't end up enjoying the Matterhorn rollercoaster

Hold on! Everly bravely took the front seat for the mountain ride

Practical: He carried a backpack and covered his head with a baseball hat

Afloat: They took a boat ride too

The couple met on the set of Step Up back in 2006, and tied the knot at a ceremony in Hawaii in 2009.

Channing has been dating singer Jessie J, 30, while Jenna has moved on with Steve Kazee, 43.

On Thursday, the presenter on the NBC show World Of Dance posted an Instagram image declaring her gratitude which ended with the phrase, 'I love you.'

Meanwhile, Jessie J vowed earlier this week that she will be a mother, in an emotional post after revealing she was unable to conceive a child naturally.

The singer, 30, told fans she discovered she had fertility issues four years ago and detailed her 'pain and sadness' at the situation as she took to the stage at London's Royal Albert Hall on last week.

Former couple: Channing Tatum is shown with ex-wife Jenna in November 2017 in Los Angeles

On Monday, the Price Tag hit-maker took to Instagram to thank her followers for their 'love and support' in the wake of the heartbreaking admission.

She wrote: 'After explaining the meaning of my song 'Four Letter Word' on stage during this tour. The love and support I have received has been overwhelming.

'Thank you. I was told 4 years ago I won't be able to have children. I was also told I would need a hysterectomy immediately and to be put on medication. I refused the hysterectomy I'm off all medication through natural medicine and diet change.'

The star also revealed that she hadn't lost hope that she would have a family, writing: 'I am doing all I can to make it happen the best way my body will allow … I will be a mother … I believe in miracles.

'But if it doesn't happen naturally. Then that wasn't meant to be the journey. But a mother is within all of us. That inspires everyday. We are strong. Time will tell.'

====== 227 ========

'I FELT CLAUSTROPHOBIC, I FELT TRAPPED': MARGOT ROBBIE ON PLAYING QUEEN ELIZABETH THE FIRST

She dons a red wig, prosthetics and white face paint to play Queen Elizabeth the First, cousin of Queen Mary Stuart, in the new biopic Mary Queen of Scots.

And it seems Margot Robbie's transformation to get into the character proved incredibly challenging for the acclaimed actress.

Speaking on the Today show on Friday, Margot, 28, said: 'I could barely move my face because there was so much prosthetics. It's glued-down plastic on your face.'

'I felt claustrophobic, I felt trapped': Margot Robbie has revealed the hardship she faced when playing Queen Elizabeth the First in her new movie Mary Queen Of Scots

Painful: Speaking on the Today show on Friday, Margot, 28, said: 'I could barely move my face because there was so much prosthetics. It's glued-down plastic on your face'

The blonde beauty added that the period costume presented its own difficulties - but it helped her get into character.

'The clothes were very restrictive, as they were at the time. It helped - I felt claustrophobic, I felt trapped,' Margot said.

'But kind of upholding this image the whole time, which is kind of what she [Elizabeth] did. She kind of created an image and then was imprisoned by it.'

Uncomfortable: The blonde beauty added that the period costume presented its own difficulties - but it helped her get into character

Calling her striking appearance an 'interesting social experiment' in a recent interview with Harper's Bazaar, Margot revealed how she felt 'alienated' while in hair, makeup and costume as the fiery-tressed 16th century royal.

'It was very alienating. And I felt very lonely. It was an interesting social experiment.'

After spending three-and-a-half hours a day getting primed with hair and makeup, Margot was nearly unrecognisable.

Unrecognisable :In the film, the actress wears a number of prosthetic scars as Elizabeth's struggle with smallpox intensifies

The transformation was shocking for the cast too, who Margot said were taken aback by her look.

'I'd say, "Hey, how's your weekend?" But they wouldn't even get close to me.'

In the film, the actress wears a number of prosthetic scars as Elizabeth's struggle with smallpox intensifies.

Talking about the steps it took to become the monarch, Margot revealed: 'They’d start with a head wrap. Gelling and pinning my hair down. Then we'd do a bald cap.'

'Surprisingly, the quick part was the white makeup,' she added. 'And the heavily drawn-on blush, eyebrows, lips.'

The biopic also features the talents of Saoirse Ronan, 24, who plays the Queen Of Scotland.

Mary, Queen of Scots hits cinemas in January 2019.

====== 228 ========

EMMA ROBERTS LOOKS CASUAL COOL IN ANIMAL PRINT SKIRT AND T-SHIRT DURING A QUICK COFFEE STOP IN LA

She is the daughter of actor Eric Roberts and the niece of screen legend Julia Roberts.

But on Thursday, Emma Roberts tagged along with her mother, Kelly Cunningham, during a quick coffee stop at a Starbucks on Los Angeles.

The 27-year old American Horror Story star kept it casual cool for her morning jaunt on Thanksgiving.

Easy holiday morning: Emma Roberts opted for a casual cool look when she made a quick coffee stop in Los Angeles on Thursday

Being a star in her own right, Emma tried to go unnoticed in an animal print skirt with a black planet Saturn t-shirt, that she wore under a blue sports-style jacket, and a pair of dark sunglasses.

Also opting for comfort, she matched it a pair of black slips, while keeping accessories to a minimum.

And on this pre-Thanksgiving dinner stop, the actress wore her dyed blonde tresses long and with a part to the right.

Casual: The 27-year old star wore an animal print skirt with a t-shirt and sports-style jacket

Mesmerized: The American Horror Story star seemed preoccupied with her phone as her mother, Kelly Cunningham, trailed close behind

At times the 5ft 2in petite beauty chatted with her mother as they walk to and from the Starsbuck shop.

And then there were times when she appeared to be fully preoccupied with her phone as she lodged her a cup of coffee between her arms and her body.

Mom also kept it casual before heading to their holiday feast dressed in light blue denim pants with a black long-sleeve top and a large striped scarf around here neck to help stave off the morning chill in the air.

Emma first made a name for herself in Hollywood with a role in the Johnny Deep crime film Blow (2001) and in the Nickelodeon TV series Unfabulous (2004-2007). She went on to star in such films as Nancy Drew (2007), The Art Of Getting By (2011), Lymelife (2009), Scream 4 (2011), We're The Millers (2013), as well as four seasons on American Horror Story beginning in 2013.

====== 229 ========

TARON EGERTON STEPS OUT FOR RANGE ROVER EVENT... AFTER ACTOR SPLIT FROM GIRLFRIEND EMILY THOMAS

Taron Egerton recently revealed that he split from his British producer girlfriend Emily Thomas after the couple dated for two years.

And the actor, 28, put on a brave face following the breakup as he stepped out for the World Premiere of the new Range Rover Evoque at The Old Truman Brewery on Thursday night.

The Kingsman: Secret Service star looked dapper as he sported double denim in a faded denim jacket and navy blue jeans.

Putting on a brave face: Taron Egerton looked dapper as he stepped out for Range Rover event on Thursday... after actor split from girlfriend Emily Thomas after two years together

Taron completed his casual ensemble with a blue chequered shirt, which was frayed at the bottom for a punk chic flair.

Opting to cover his newly shaved locks, the actor accessorised with a brown trilby hat as he beamed on the red carpet.

The Robin Hood star completed his look with a pair of bulky brown lace-up boots, that matched his choice of headgear.

Looking good: The Kingsman: Secret Service star looked handsome in double denim in a faded denim jacket and navy blue jeans, which he teamed up with a chequered shirt and brown boots

His outing comes after it was revealed on Wednesday that he had split from Emily, after the pair started dating two years ago in November 2016.

The couple were last seen attending a series of red carpet events over the summer of this year, and the actor dropped the bombshell they had gone their separate ways in a number of recent interviews in November.

MailOnline has reached out to Taron Egerton's representatives for further comment.

Mending his heartache: Taron's outing comes after it was revealed on Wednesday that he had split from Emily, after they started dating in November 2016 (Windsor, June 2018)

Taron insisted he was 'reinventing' himself in the wake of the break up as he shaved his head to play Sir Elton John in the new biopic Rocketman.

The actor claimed shaving his head had a 'cathartic' impact to change the way he looked following his split.

He said: ‘I found it quite liberating because I just finished the Elton John thing and had this awful hair. So, I shaved my hair cos they had thinned it right out and given me this bald patch.

So sad: The Robin Hood actor dropped the bombshell he had gone his separate ways from the brunette beauty in a number of recent interviews in November (London, February 2018)

History: They first began dating two years ago and the couple were last seen attending a series of red carpet events over the summer of this year (Windsor, June 2018)

‘It was very cathartic and also, not to put a downer on things, I split up with my girlfriend not long ago and it weirdly felt a bit like reinvention… to sort of change the way I look.’

However, the actor also voiced his fears about starting dating again in the light of the powerful #MeToo movement.

The Hollywood star confessed his concerns about becoming a target of fabricated accusations of sexual assault.

Made the cut! Taron insisted he was 'reinventing' himself in the wake of the break up as he shaved his head to play Sir Elton John in the new biopic Rocketman

Moving on: The actor claimed shaving his head had a 'cathartic' impact to change the way he looked following his split

#MeToo, a collective reaction to sexual harassment and assault in the workplace, gained momentum following the allegations of Harvey Weinstein and Kevin Spacey.

Taron reflected on the allegations aimed at Kevin, who he worked with on Billionaire Boys Club, and how it made him question if he wants to actively date.

He told the Radio Times: 'Like a lot of people with a profile I was like, "Holy s**t, what have I done since I was 18?"

'I have just become single again and I’m not in a place where I’m thinking about dating, but when I am, it will probably affect my thinking a bit. There are certainly situations where I avoid being alone with certain people.'

====== 230 ========

HUGH JACKMAN, 50, LOOKS AS BUFF AS EVER AS HE LEAVES NEW YORK TO CELEBRATE THANKSGIVING

He's played the muscular ripped Wolverine character for 18 years.

And Hugh Jackman, 50, looked as fit as ever this week amid speculation he could reprise his role as the Marvel superhero.

Spotted leaving his New York condo on Wednesday, it's believed The Greatest Showman star was hitting the road for Thanksgiving celebrations with his family.

Hollywood appeal! Hugh Jackman, 50, looks as buff as ever as he leaves New York to celebrate Thanksgiving with his family... amid speculation he could reprise Wolverine

The father of two cut a casual figure in jeans, a black T-shirt and a navy jumper zipped up over his buff frame.

Looking every bit the Hollywood star, Hugh added to his look with stylish shades, boots and a luxury watch.

Hugh was joined by his wife Deborra-lee Furness and their two children - son Oscar, 18, and daughter Ava, 13.

Family man: Hugh was joined by his wife Deborra-lee Furness, 62, and their two children - son Oscar, 18, and daughter Ava, 13

Keeping it cosy! Looking chic in an all-black ensemble, Hugh's wife Deborrah-Lee wore loose-fit trackpants and a jumper, while holding a puffer jacket

Hugh's wife Deborrah-Lee, 62, who he married in 1996, kept cosy in multiple layers as she left the condominium.

Looking chic in an all-black ensemble, she wore loose-fit trackpants and a jumper, while holding a puffer jacket.

Despite a suited male flanking the group from the door to their car, Hugh appeared hands on while packing the vehicle for their trip.

'Oh, Wolverine will be back': The sighting comes after Hugh promised Sunday Today that his is iconic long-running character Wolverine will return to the big screen

The sighting comes after Hugh promised Sunday Today that his is iconic long-running character Wolverine will return to the big screen.

However, he refused to work with the 'relentless' Ryan Reynolds on a movie encompassing both his character Wolverine and his pal's screen alter ego Deadpool.

Confident on Wolverine's comeback, he told TV host Willie Geist: 'Oh, Wolverine will be back. Someone’s going to buy him, I don’t know.'

Hugh put on Wolverine's claws for the first time when he landed his breakthrough role in The X Men franchise in 2000.

Over the last 18 years, the Hollywood actor went onto reprise the role for the follow-up films in the superhero franchise as well as the Wolverine spin-off movies.

====== 231 ========

CATE BLANCHETT NAILS ANDROGYNOUS CHIC IN A BEADED TUXEDO

From sleek red column gowns to sharply-tailored suits, Cate Blanchett is the ultimate sartorial maverick.

And the Ocean's 8 actress cemented her style credentials on Thursday evening, as she opted for boy-meets-girl chic while hosting the screening of Cold War at The Soho Hotel in London.

The Australian star, 49, put a fresh spin on the androgynous look in a black tuxedo embellished with intricate multi-coloured beading.

Looking good: Cate Blanchett, 49, cemented her style credentials on Thursday evening, as she opted for boy-meets-girl chic while hosting the screening of Cold War in London

Letting her statement two-piece do all the talking, the Notes On A Scandal actress layered a simple white shirt underneath.

Sticking to a monochrome palette, she added height with a vertiginous pair of black stilettos.

The Lord Of The Rings star styled her golden tresses in a sleek side-parting and framed her features with smokey eyeshadow and matte, taupe lipstick.

She seemed to be in good spirits while posing with Pawel Pawlikowski, who is the director of Cold War - which is a romance set in 1950s Poland.

Chic: The Australian star, 49, put a fresh spin on the androgynous look in a black tuxedo embellished with intricate beading (pictured with Cold War director Pawel Pawlikowski)

Glam: The Lord Of The Rings star styled her golden tresses in a sleek side-parting and framed her features with smokey eyeshadow and matte, taupe lipstick

Meanwhile, two-time Oscar winner Cate has become the latest Hollywood celebrity to switch to TV, signing on to star in the new FX limited series, Mrs America.

Created and written by 'Mad Men' co-producer Dahvi Waller, the nine-episode series will feature Blanchett as conservative activist Phyllis Schlafly, who led the fight against the movement to ratify the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA).

The ERA is a proposed amendment to the US Constitution stating that equal rights may not be denied on the basis of one's sex.

Stylish: Letting her statement two-piece do all the talking, the Notes On A Scandal actress layered a simple white shirt underneath (pictured with Pawel and Tanya Seghatchian)

The amendment was passed by the US Congress in 1972 but failed to win the backing of enough states.

Blanchett joins other Hollywood A-listers who have made the jump to television in recent years, including Meryl Streep, Tom Hardy and Julia Roberts.

Elsewhere, Cate recently revealed she goes to her own children for career advice, telling Who magazine she 'seeks their opinions all the time'.

Candid: Cate recently revealed she goes to her own children for career advice, telling Who magazine she 'seeks their opinions all the time'

The actress shares four kids - Dashiell, 16, Roman, 14, Ignatius, 10, and Edith, four - with her theatre director husband Andrew Upton.

'I seek their opinions all the time. Particularly with a film like [The House with a Clock in Its Walls], you want to know, "Is this something you want to go and see?"' she said.

Her eldest son, Dashiell, is 16 and she has apparently learnt a lot from him.

'When I was sent the script, I said to him, "They're going to get Eli Roth to direct this. Isn't he the guy that does all the horror?" And he goes, "Oh my god. You put Eli Roth on an Amblin film? That's combustible",' she revealed.

====== 232 ========

MICHAEL JACKSON'S BROTHER TITO REVEALS THE TWO ITEMS HE TOOK BEFORE EVACUATING CALIFORNIA FIRES

Tito Jackson lives in California, where the state's worst wildfires have been raging, leaving 86 dead, 500 people unaccounted for and many houses destroyed.

On Friday, The brother of the late Michael Jackson spoke to Australian radio station Hit 105's Stav, Abby & Matt about his near-miss with the natural disaster.

'The fire came within 200 feet of my home. I had to evacuate,' the 65-year-old said, before revealing the two items he grabbed before fleeing.

Tito's treasures: Michael Jackson's brother Tito reveals the only two items he took from his house when fleeing the California wildfires... and discusses his relationship with the King of Pop's kids

Tito explained that when he was told to evacuate, his beloved instruments were the first, and only things that came to mind.

'I grabbed my Ed Sullivan guitar that I played on The Ed Sullivan Show, I grabbed my favourite microphone and I got the heck out of here!' he said.

The Jackson 5 singer then described just how much devastation the fires caused.

All about the music! Speaking to Australian radio station Hit 105's Stav, Abby & Matt on Friday, Tito explained that when he was told to evacuate, his beloved instruments were the first, and only things that came to mind (Pictured here playing with the Jackson 5)

'I'm looking out my window right now and I see burnt a hillside. It's all around us,' he said.

'We're OK, the fires seemed to subside,' he added.

Later, he discussed his relationship with Michael's kids.

Priceless! 'I grabbed my Ed Sullivan guitar that I played on The Ed Sullivan Show, I grabbed my favourite microphone and I got the heck out of here!' he said

The King of Pop Michael tragically died in June 2009, leaving behind children Michael 'Prince' Jackson Jr, 21, Paris, 20, and Michael 'Blanket' Jackson II, 16.

Thankfully, the kids have a huge extended family to lean on, Tito included.

'Oh yeah, I see them often,' he said.

'I was hanging out with them just over a week ago... we had a celebration for Halloween and we all shared that with them.'

Gone, not forgotten: The King of Pop Michael tragically died in June 2009, leaving behind children Michael 'Prince' Jackson Jr, 21, Paris, 20, and Michael 'Blanket' Jackson II, 16

'I was hanging out with them just over a week ago... we had a celebration for Halloween and we all shared that with them,' Tito said of Paris (left), Blanket (middle) and Prince (right)

====== 233 ========

ALEXA CHUNG DAZZLES IN SILKY SCARLET RUFFLED DRESS AS SHE LAUNCHES NEW COLLECTION

She always looked preened to perfection at fashion parties.

And Alexa Chung stayed true to her impeccable sartorial credentials on Thursday evening, as she held a 'Chungsgiving' dinner to celebrate the launch of her ALEXACHUNG collection with Net-A-Porter.

The 35-year-old model and presenter nailed Victoriana chic in a scarlet dress with a ruffled pussybow neckline at the star-studded event, held at the Penthouse at The London EDITION hotel.

Looking good: Alexa Chung wore a red dress as she celebrated the launch of her ALEXACHUNG collection with Net-A-Porter held at the Penthouse at The London EDITION hotel

Letting her statement dress do all the talking, Alexa completed her look with sheer tights and black platform heels.

The former Popworld presenter styled her glossy raven tresses in a sleek middle-parting and framed her features with dewy blusher and subtle mascara.

The designer was joined by a host of celebrities at her bash, including close friend Suki Waterhouse and Pixie Geldof.

Chic: The 35-year-old model and presenter nailed Victoriana chic in a scarlet dress with a ruffled pussybow neckline at the star-studded

Finishing touches: Letting her statement dress do all the talking, Alexa completed her look with sheer tights and black platform heels

Double trouble: The brunette beauty smiled as she posed with her good friend Pixie Geldof

Glam: The former Popworld presenter styled her glossy raven tresses in a sleek middle-parting and framed her features with dewy blusher and subtle mascara (pictured with Jack Guinness)

Meanwhile, Alexa recently talked about her career, fashion and her thoughts on the #MeToo movement at a talk at the Oxford Union.

She told students: 'I know now that I’m driven by a desire to communicate and to have an emotional connection with other people.

'Now more than ever there’s a growing space for people to tell their own stories and a need for them to do so.

Hint of sparkle: Alexa accessorised with several dazzling rings (pictured with Cathy Kasterine)

Bold and bright: Suki Waterhouse ensured she turned heads in a multi-coloured psychedelic blouse

Bold look: She paired the dramatic garment with a simple pair of black mom jeans

Three's a crowd: The Love, Rosie actress beamed as she posed with presenter Poppy Jamie and model Jack

Taking a walk on the wild side: The blonde beauty added height with a pair of leopard print boots

'I have always dressed to express myself or to alter how other people may have chosen to perceive me.'

Despite being a model, a designer and a style icon, Alexa confessed she has felt like an 'imposter' in the fashion spheres.

She told BBC News: 'It's not exclusive to fashion, I've felt it with everything I've done.

To be a fly on the wall: The two friends seemed to be deep in conversation at the dinner

Come here, you! Suki grinned as she wrapped her arms around male model Jack

Pretty in prints: Pixie Geldof looked chic in black and white checked co-ords and blue satin bow pumps

'Writing for Vogue, that's a huge imposter syndrome. Television, every day before we went live, I'd be like, "am I equipped to do this? I don't know".'

As for romance, Alexa previously fell madly in love with the Arctic Monkeys rocker Alex Turner from 2007 until 2011.

The designer was believed to have rekindled her relationship with actor Alexander Skarsgård in March, however she was seen with ex Matthew Hitt two months later.

Having a whale of a time: Suki and Poppy appeared to be in great spirits on the night

====== 234 ========

KEANU REEVES WILL PLAY 'EDGY' MYSTERY ROLE IN TOY STORY 4

Keanu Reeves will play an 'edgy' mystery role in Toy Story 4.

Tim Allen, who lends his voice to Buzz Lightyear, revealed that the John Wick actor has scored a 'great part' in the hotly-anticipated Disney-Pixar film.

Keanu, 54, will join an A-list cast of Tim, Tom Hanks and Joan Cusack in the fourth installment of the much-loved franchise - which hits cinemas next June.

New face: Keanu Reeves will play an 'edgy' mystery role in the hotly-anticipated Toy Story 4

'Keanu Reeves has got a great part,' Tim, 65, told Jimmy Fallon on The Tonight Show on Wednesday.

'Actually, a little inside story, even [Reeves] said - gentle, wonderful guy that he is - "This [character] sounds too much like Buzz Lightyear".'

He continued: 'And his character does have an edge to that. And the guy said, "So we calmed him down a little bit," and they reminded me his toy is only that big.'

Tim then held up his fingers to help demonstrate the size of Reeves' character.

Excited: Tim Allen, who lends his voice to Buzz Lightyear, revealed that the John Wick actor has scored a 'great part' in the hotly-anticipated Disney-Pixar film

Stellar: Keanu, 54, will join an A-list cast of Tim, Tom Hanks (pictured) and Joan Cusack in the fourth installment of the much-loved franchise which hits cinemas next June

Allen recently opened up about the emotional moments in Toy Story 4, admitting he struggled to 'get through' the final scenes.

'I've got to resist getting emotional because I don't want to give it away, but this is an incredibly great story,' he told The Talk in September.

'It is so emotional, it’s so funny, it’s so big, the idea they’ve come up with, I’m startled,' he revealed on the show's set with obvious emotion in his voice.

Interesting: Tim (pictured) said: 'Keanu Reeves has got a great part. Actually, a little inside story, even [Reeves] said "This [character] sounds too much like Buzz Lightyear" '

'I couldn’t even get through the last scene. I would love to be a Washington leaker, I just can't do it, I can't give any more away, they've got great characters. A couple of scenes at the end were really hard to get through.'

Fans were sent into meltdown earlier this month when the trailer was released for Toy Story 4 - eight years after Toy Story 3 hit screens.

Cowboy sheriff Woody is back along with his best pal Buzz Lightyear and all their friends - plus an unexpected extra toy who really doesn't want to be there.

They're back: Disney-Pixar released an 87-second teaser trailer of the long-awaited Toy Story 4 on Monday showing Woody, Buzz and all the old toys - plus an unexpected new character

In fact, Forky doesn't even think he's something to play with at all. He's a plastic spork-turned-craft project that young owner Bonnie has created... and he causes havoc.

The trailer begins with the toys happily holding hands in a circle as the camera pans on each of them by turn with the back drop of a blue sky and white puffy clouds as Joni Mitchell sings Both Sides Now in the background.

The circle comes to a sudden halt on a distressed looking Forky, who is holding Woody's hand.

He screams: 'I don't belong here,' and runs off as the toys pile up behind Woody.

He's not happy: Forky is a plastic spork-turned-craft project that young owner Bonnie has created and thrown in with all the other toys

Shock and horror: The deeply conflicted utensil screams, 'I don't belong here' adding, 'I'm not a spork' and runs off

Look out! With the circle broken,the toys pile up against Woody who yells, 'Hey, hey, somebody get him before he pokes an eye out'

'I'm not a spork,' the deeply conflicted utensil yells as Woody says: 'Hey, hey, somebody get him before he pokes an eye out.'

Tom Hanks returns as the voice of Woody, while Joan Cusack, Bonnie Hunt and Laurie Metcalf are also back to reprise their roles.

Meanwhile, comedian and Arrested Development actor Tony Hale lends his voice to Forky.

Toy Story 4 director by Josh Cooley said: 'Like most people, I assumed that Toy Story 3 was the end of the story. And it was the end of Woody's story with Andy. But just like in life, every ending is a new beginning.

Quick to comment: The fans start posting their throughts within minutes of the teaser's release

'Woody now being in a new room, with new toys, and a new kid, was something we have never seen before. The questions of what that would be like became the beginning of an entertaining story worth exploring.'

The original 1995 film focused on a young boy called Andy's toys, who come alive when they're on their own.

However, the character's beloved and loyal cowboy doll, called Woody, saw his position as favorite in jeopardy when Andy was bought a Buzz Lightyear figure, who believed he was on a mission into space.

But the two sparring toys joined forces when Andy's family moved house and had to escape the evil clutches of his troublesome next door neighbor Sid Phillips.

The following movies — Toy Story 2 (1999) and Toy Story 3 (2010) — saw the toys sticking together to rescue each other from dangerous situations, such as Woody being stolen by toy dealer Al McWhiggin and the group mistakenly being taken to Sunnyside Daycare. Fans will have to wait until June 21 to see Toy Story 4.

====== 235 ========

CLAIRE FOY ADMITS SHE 'FELT AN AMOUNT OF JUDGEMENT' PLAYING HACKER LISBETH SALANDER

She's a Golden Globe-winning superstar, who earned much acclaim for her performance as Queen Elizabeth II in The Crown.

But Claire Foy has admitted she 'felt an amount of judgement' playing embattled hacker Lisbeth Salander in The Girl In The Spider's Web, after becoming the third actress to take on the famous literary role.

The 34-year-old British actress told the i newspaper she felt some pressure to wow with her performance as Lisbeth, adding that she chose to bulk up with a muscular physique as she thought such a character would 'project that image.'

Under pressure: Claire Foy has admitted she 'felt an amount of judgement' playing Lisbeth Salander in The Girl In The Spider's Web, after becoming the third actress to take on the role

Claire explained that when she was offered the part she knew there would be pressure to take it in a new direction, after Noomi Rapace and Rooney Mara wowed in Swedish and American adaptations of The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo.

'At a certain point…I had to realise I'm taking this job on,' she said.

'I'm taking this on; this amount of expectation, this amount of judgement, this amount of criticism. I either surrender to it or I try to change it. And I can't change it so I might as well go, 'Ah well!' You have to be sanguine about it. What am I going to do?'

Impassioned: The 34-year-old British actress told the i newspaper she felt some pressure to wow with her performance as Swedish hacker Lisbeth

Old faces: Claire took on the role of Lisbeth after it was played by Noomi Rapace and Rooney Mara in the Swedish and American versions of The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo

Claire plays Lisbeth in the newest novel The Girl In The Spider's Web, a sequel to the original Millennium trilogy of books.

This book was written David Lagercrantz as a follow-up to the original trilogy, after its author Steig Larsson died of a heart attack in 2004.

The stunning actress went onto explain that she chose to bulk up and get in shape to play the character, adding that she wanted to project a positive body message to her fans.

She said: 'It was very physical. I had to get muscles that I never had before in order to look right.

'I don't want to project that image – I don't think she has to be emaciated. I don't know why she would have to be.'

Toughen up: The Golden Globe winning actress also explained that she decided to bulk up for the role, as she thought it was the body image a character such as Lisbeth would portray

This version of Lisbeth Salander also comes in the wake of the recent #MeToo and #Time'sUp movements, and Claire's co-star Sylvia Hokes said she had much of the movement in mind when filming The Girl In The Spider's Web

She said: 'I think the world has finally caught up with Lisbeth because she's been doing it for a long time.

'She's always that pioneer, right? I think I say in the film, ''The girl who hurts men who hurt women.''

'She's always been that girl…so to have her back in this time – having shot the film right in the middle of that whole thing happening – was interesting. It did make us even more conscious of the abuse of power.'

Amazing: Claire said she hopes to wow in her incarnation of the Lisbeth, who has already been tipped as a heroine for the #MeToo movement

Meanwhile the film's director Fede Alvarez added that he thinks it would be down to male fans to decide whether Lisbeth will become a heroine of the #MeToo movement.

He added: ' 'Women will tell us when they watch the movie. I think to impose it beforehand, it's unfair and pretentious. I think they'll watch the movie and they'll tell us if they feel she represents that.

'The whole #MeToo started with Harvey Weinstein and those stories. I'm sure Weinstein would not get Lisbeth in a hotel room…she'd kick the s*** out of him! In that aspect, Lisbeth represents a woman that takes no shit and she's really saying 'Enough!'

This in an extract from the full interview with Claire Foy, available to read in this Friday's issue of the i newspaper, priced at 60p.

====== 236 ========

BAZ BAMIGBOYE: CLAIRE FOY REVEALS THE SECRET TO HER 'FABULOUS' PERFORMANCE

Claire Foy ordered us both non-alcoholic cocktails at Kettner’s in Soho but it took a while to drink them because every 20 seconds someone would stop to tell her how fabulous she was in Damien Chazelle’s movie First Man, in which she portrays the wife of Neil Armstrong (Ryan Gosling).

To me, it’s a movie about a family. The bid to get U.S. astronauts to the moon is simply a magnificent backdrop.

Soon Chazelle, below with Foy, joined us. Then Richard Curtis collared Claire, to tell her he was hypnotised by her eyes in the film, or rather how she used them to convey Janet Armstrong’s pain.

Claire Foy and Damien Chazelle attending for the premiere of 'First Man' in Paris in September

Stephen Daldry was close behind. He and Foy became good friends after he cast her as Elizabeth II in The Crown.

Chazelle met Mrs Armstrong and taped five hours of conversation before filming. ‘That tape was instrumental in helping me find out about Janet,’ Foy said. ‘Her speech patterns, tone, told me so much. I’m sad I didn’t meet her but also glad, because I would have been so embarrassed asking her personal questions,’ she said of the woman who died in June, a few months before First Man opened.

Armstrong’s sons Mark and Eric both paid moving tribute to Foy when I saw them at the Toronto International Film Festival, saying she had ‘totally captured our mother’. She’s the heart of the film.

Ryan Gosling (pictured in October) plays Neil Armstrong as the lead in First Man

I’d like to propose a toast! The cast of Evening Standard Theatre Award-winning musical Company — led by Rosalie Craig and Patti LuPone — will go in to Rak Studios in St John’s Wood on Sunday to start making the cast recording.

Director Marianne Elliott and producer Chris Harper have secured composer Stephen Sondheim to oversee the sessions. Cameras will film each number, with excerpts to feature in a documentary about the gender-swap show.

====== 237 ========

BAMIGBOYE: FILMMAKER ALFONSO CUARON EXPLAINS HOW HE CREATED ROMA

Film-maker Alfonso Cuaron - who made the colossal hits Gravity and Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban - has directed a new film - titled Roma - based on his childhood

The film-maker Alfonso Cuaron starts talking about cracks in a wall and wounds in a heart.

He’s talking about himself — and about us, the audience for his new film Roma.

The title refers to the affluent district of Mexico City where Cuaron — who made the colossal hits Gravity and Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban, and more personal pictures such as Y Tu Mama Tambien — grew up.

Roma, too, is both personal — based on the director’s childhood and the young woman who raised him (played with powerful warmth by Yalitza Aparicio) — and colossal, because the experiences it explores, in Cuaron’s magic hands, become universal.

Cuaron began thinking about making the film (which he wrote and directed) a dozen years ago.

First, he searched his memory to summon episodes from his time with his beloved ‘Libo’ Rodriguez (in the film, her name has been changed to Cleo).

Then, four years ago, he asked if he could interview her, recording the details of her daily routine as a maid into what he called ‘The Book Of Hours’.

One of those routines was cleaning up the mess left by the family dog in the gated drive; and the movie opens with a beautifully shot scene of Cleo doing just that.

‘She has to clean it up — and she’s blamed when there’s too much of it,’ Cuaron said.

It wasn’t real, by the way. ‘It was made of food stuff. But the problem was, the dog kept trying to eat it, so we had to put Tabasco sauce on it.’

The director said he accessed so many memories that it opened emotional wounds, but he embraced them. ‘The wound is part of who you are,’ he said.

Roma is based on the director’s childhood and the young woman who raised him - played with powerful warmth by Yalitza Apariciom (pictured)

‘It’s like repairing a crack in a wall. Or, better, the art of mending broken pottery. It’s about repairing yourself, and the end product is more beautiful than the original product.’

The film’s a masterpiece — I’ve seen it four times, and it’s still doing its repair work on me.

Roma opens at the Curzon Soho next Thursday and will be at the Curzon Bloomsbury from December 6. It will go to other cinemas nationwide from December 14, the same date it begins streaming on Netflix.

I’d like to propose a toast! The cast of Evening Standard Theatre Award-winning musical Company — led by Rosalie Craig and Patti LuPone — will go in to Rak Studios in St John’s Wood on Sunday to start making the cast recording.

Director Marianne Elliott and producer Chris Harper have secured composer Stephen Sondheim to oversee the sessions. Cameras will film each number, with excerpts to feature in a documentary about the gender-swap show.

====== 238 ========

SUKI WATERHOUSE DISPLAYS HER QUIRKY STYLE IN GREEN LEATHER JACKET AT CHARITY SHOP LAUNCH

She's a regular fixture on the London night scene.

And Suki Waterhouse cemented her sartorial credentials as she attended the opening for Choose Love shop for Help Refugees on Carnaby Street on Thursday evening.

The actress, 26, showcased her flair for fashion as she sported a green leather trench coat and a multi-patterned shirt with clashing colours.

She's got it! Suki Waterhouse cemented her sartorial credentials as she attended the opening for Choose Love shop for Help Refugees on Carnaby Street on Thursday evening

Injecting even more detail into her outfit, the Charlie Says star wore animal print boots on her foot, while toning down her appearance with straight-leg jeans.

The model opted for her signature messy curly 'do and accentuated her beauty with a heavy winged eyeliner look.

Also in attendance was Daisy Lowe, who certainly stood out with her head-turning blonde mane as she stormed the star-studded bash in a silky trouser suit.

Radiant: The actress, 26, showcased her flair for fashion as she sported a green leather trench coat and a multi-patterned shirt with clashing colours

Looking good: The model opted for her signature messy curly 'do and accentuated her beauty with a heavy winged eyeliner look (pictured with Poppy James)

Starry: Also in attendance was Daisy Lowe, who certainly stood out with her head-turning blonde mane as she stormed the star-studded bash in a silky trouser suit

Glowing: Daisy completed her look with black sports-trim joggers and a chic black and white slogan T-shirt

TV presenter Laura Whitmore nailed edgy chic in a pair of floral slacks, a longline blazer and a slogan tee by Choose Love.

The shop is open to the public from Friday, and is set up to support refugees across Europe and the Middle East.

Suki's outing comes after she admitted she accidentally shot someone while filming her new movie.

Style savvy: TV presenter Laura Whitmore nailed edgy chic in a pair of floral slacks, a longline blazer and a slogan tee by Choose Love

Casual: Strictly's Vick Hope (L) looked effortlessly chic in a shearling coat and checked trousers, while Juliet Stevenson (R) stunned in grey dungarees and a cosy knit jumper

Natural beauty: The 29-year-old radio presenter exhibited her radiant complexion as she went make-up free for the event

She admitted her lack of firearms training ahead of filming meant that she 'hurt someone' when her bullet ricocheted while playing Sarah in the upcoming black comedy thriller Assassination Nation.

'I hurt somebody. The bullet ricocheted. They hadn't seen that in 20 years. The bullet came back at the guy and hurt him. We didn't get extensive [firearms] training. I'm not gonna lie, it was maybe an hour' she told the New York Post during the film's premiere.

With her busy modelling career and acting schedule, Suki, who's been romantically linked to Bradley Cooper, is finding it hard to date because she's never in the same country for long enough.

Dapper: Steve Coogan put on a suave display as he donned a tweed blazer, matching waistcoat and brown trousers

Cool: Mr. Nobody actor Toby Regbo wrapped up in a off-black wool coat and skinny jeans

Her globe-trotting career meant that her brief relationship with Robert Pattinson over the summer came to an abrupt end after just a month of dating.

However, there are no hard feelings between the pair as they both made it clear that they were just having 'fun' and neither were looking for anything serious.

A source said at the time: 'Rob is having fun right now and has definitely moved on from his relationship with FKA Twigs. He likes to have fun when he has breaks in between filming and him and Suki have a great time together. He isn't looking for anything serious right now. but they are definitely into each other.'

====== 239 ========

DUKE AND DUCHESS OF CAMBRIDGE TO VISIT LEICESTER AND PAY RESPECTS TO VICHAI SRIVADDHANAPRABHA

The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge will visit Leicester next week to pay tribute to those who died in the King Power Stadium helicopter crash, it was announced today.

Prince William, 36, and his wife Kate, 36, will remember Leicester City owner Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha and the four others killed the disaster last month.

The royals were well acquainted with Srivaddhanaprabha through his love of polo.

On the visit to the city next Wednesday they will spend time at the memorial site as well as meeting the players and club management.

The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge will pay tribute to Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha next week

They will visit Leicester to pay tribute to the Foxes owner who tragically died last month

William, president of the Football Association, and Kate will also meet volunteers and club supporters who helped to relocate the thousands of tributes which were left outside the front of the stadium to the special site.

Afterwards, William and Kate will visit King Power Stadium itself where they will meet representatives from local charities who were supported by Mr Srivaddhanaprabha.

Kensington Palace said in a statement today: 'Their Royal Highnesses knew the club’s chairman, Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha, and wanted to visit the city to recognise the warmth and compassion that the people of Leicester and fans of Leicester City Football Club have shown in reaction to the accident.'

Aiyawatt Srivaddhanaprabha, Vichai's son and Leicester vice-chairman, said: 'It is truly an honour for everyone associated with the club to welcome The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge to King Power Stadium.

'For Their Royal Highnesses to visit the city to pay their respects personally is a remarkable gesture of compassion to the families of those who lost their lives, to the staff and players of the club and to the people of the city whose lives were touched by my father.

'Together with our community partners, we intend to showcase some of the best of Leicester - both in the way the city has come together in the face of such tragedy and in the great work we will continue to undertake in my father's name as part of our commitment to his legacy.'

The Royals will see the thousands of tributes for Vichai that have been left at the stadium

====== 240 ========

VICTORIA'S SECRET MODEL SARA SAMPAIO ESCAPES TO MEXICO FOR BEACH FUN

Sara Sampaio is enjoying rest and relaxation by the beach this Thanksgiving following a hectic few weeks.

The Victoria's Secret model, 27, shared snaps from her retreat in Tulum, Mexico with her 7 million followers.

In one frame, she was seen enjoying an outdoor shower while dressed in a skimpy white swimsuit.

She captioned the picture: 'Lots of this for the next few days. Finally some time off after living in airports and planes these past few weeks.'

Beach fun: Sara Sampaio is enjoying rest and relaxation by the beach this Thanksgiving following a hectic few weeks

On Thursday, she posted a selfie from while reclining on the beach with the caption: 'Happy thanksgiving'

The star's skin looked absolutely radiant - and it's not just good genes.

She recently revealed that she religiously removes her make-up every night, otherwise she breaks out.

She begins her bedtime routine by removing her make-up with two products - a Sephora waterproof remover followed by a Rose and Chamomile Cleansing Milk from The Organic Pharmacy - and the Brazilian beauty admitted she has to be careful about what she uses because she can react to certain products.

Radiant: The 27-year-old model also shared a selfie from her retreat

Speaking to Harper's Bazaar, she said: 'I have really sensitive skin.

'I really love this [Sephora cleanser] because it really just takes out everything, now I'm using the Organic Pharmacy the Rose and Chamomile Cleansing Milk this one is great even if you're not wearing any make-up to just do it at night

'I like to use a pad because it's more gentle because a towel is a bit rough I do believe that less is more and just keep it clean.'

The Victoria's Secret Angel then showers and washes her hair with Moroccan Rose Oil Shampoo and Conditioner because she 'hates going to bed dirty' and likes to remove all he product from the day so her skin doesn't break out.

It works: Sara looks her best on the Victoria's Secret catwalk on November 8

She said: 'I always love showering at night because I hate going to bed dirty and usually if I've been working I have product in my hair and it goes in the pillow and then to your skin and then you start breaking out so I always like to go to bed clean.'

Sara then brushes her teeth with a no fluoride and no SLS toothpaste and uses a 111 skin rose gold brightening facial mask.

She said: 'I've been travelling a lot so my skin feels very dry and dull so I'm gonna use this 111 Skin Rose Gold Brightening Facial Mask it just kind of makes you look alive again - you just feel a different person.'

====== 241 ========

RITA ORA LOOKS CHIC IN A BLACK DRESS AS SHE JOINS SARAH-JANE CRAWFORD AT RADIO CITY LIVE

The great and good of the music world headed to Liverpool Echo Arena to attend the Radio City Hits Live concert on Friday evening.

And Rita Ora proved that simple is best, as she arrived at the event in a Gothic-themed black maxi dress.

The singer, 27, was joined by Sarah-Jane Crawford, who showed off her incredible figure in a pair of disco-tastic glittering purple flares as she stormed the red carpet.

Gothic look: Rita Ora looked chic in a black dress as she joined Sarah-Jane Crawford who channelled her inner disco diva at Radio City Live in Liverpool

Rita, 27, flaunted her curvaceous figure in her form-fitting attire, which she paired with black elbow-length gloves for an extra Gothic flare.

The Girls hitmaker boosted her height in a pair of sleek black heeled boots, while she accessorised with hooped earrings.

Her blonde locks were styled into dramatic curls, and she wore a slick of red lipstick to accentuate her plump pout, while she made her eyes pop by using metallic eye shadow and black eyeliner.

Glam: Rita flaunted her curvaceous figure in her form-fitting attire, which she paired with black elbow-length gloves for an extra Gothic flare

Small details: Her blonde locks were styled into dramatic curls and accessorised with black hooped earrings

Stunning: Rita wore a slick of red lipstick to accentuate her plump pout, while she made her eyes pop by using metallic eye shadow and black eyeliner

Posing up a storm: Rita worked ever angle as she posed for photos on the red carpet

Finishing touches: The Girls hitmaker boosted her height in a pair of sleek black heeled boots

Sarah-Jane, meanwhile, let her statement trousers do all the talking, as she completed her look with a simple black tank top.

The former Celebs Go Dating star added height with a pair of metallic heels and accessorised with a chunky necklace.

Styling her glossy raven tresses in a poker-straight centre-parting, she framed her features with smoky shadow and nude lipstick.

Sarah-Jane recently opened up about veganism, revealing she first kissed goodbye to meat, fish and dairy three years ago after being inspired by Beyonce's 21-day nutrition challenge.

Singing her heart out: Later that evening, Rita changed into a black top and sleek colourful trousers as she performed on stage at the concert

Chic: The 35-year-old presenter flaunted every inch of her toned frame in a pair of disco-tastic glittering purple flares

Turning heads: Letting her statement trousers do all the talking, Sarah-Jane completed her look with a simple black tank top

The former Xtra Factor presenter says that for too long being vegan has been associated with the diet-obsessed middle classes - but that it's now coming into the mainstream.

Her own twist on vegan recipes - including Caribbean and African dishes - feature on her vegan app, Viappi.

She explains: 'I really want to break the stereotype that veganism is a white middle-class thing.'

Stunning: The former Celebs Go Dating star added height with a pair of metallic heels and accessorised with a chunky necklace

Candid: Sarah-Jane recently opened up about veganism, revealing she first kissed goodbye to meat, fish and dairy three years ago after being inspired by Beyonce 's 21-day nutrition challenge

Opening up: The former Xtra Factor presenter says that for too long being vegan has been associated with the diet-obsessed middle classes - but that it's now coming into the mainstream

Hitmaker: George Ezra looked dapper as he put in an appearance

She adds: 'There is a new wave of young vegans of colour. Caribbean food, for example, is meat-heavy traditionally so it's a basically a re-education.'

On the topic of staying in shape, Sarah-Jane revealed that she works out three times a week with a personal trainer for around 45 minutes.

'I do resistance training, pull-ups, and squats for my workouts. Then I'll jog a few times a week and I do spinning classes (Psycle), then when I can I'll walk and cycle'.

Sensations: Rak-Su looked hunky as they attended the star-studded event

Vibrant: Rak-Su's Myles Stephenson looked stylish in a bright orange jacket

Performers: The four boys looked on point as they took to the stage

Loving it! The four members seemed in high spirits as they performed their tracks

Edgy: Jess Glynne looked stylish in a lavender tracksuit

Edgy: Jess delivered a passionate performance onstage

Sarah and Rita joined a host of stars including George Ezra, Tom Walker, Jess Glynne and boyband Rak-Su at the event.

Rita later changed into leather trousers and a slate grey coat for her sizzling performance complete with male backing dancers.

As well as staying active, Sarah-Jane ensures she follows a healthy diet, and chooses restaurants that cater to vegans when dining out.

'I have a sweet tooth so I may have a dairy-free milkshake from Byron Burger.

'And [I like] a vegan pizza from Zizzi. But if I'm at home I'll make a lentil chilli, bolognese or a stir-fry, and I always make sure I start the day with a power smoothie and have a few protein shakes a day.'

Starlet: Rita Ora performed at the extravaganza and looked chic in leather trousers

Smile: The star looked sensational as she cracked a delighted smile

Chic: She wrapped up in an elegant Fendi coat

====== 242 ========

PRINCE CHARLES AND CAMILLA ADMIRE STRIKING PORTRAIT OF HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS

Prince Charles and Camilla were on hand to unveil a striking portrait of the future King during an engagement on Thursday night.

Charles, 70, and the Duchess of Cornwall, 71, spent time admiring the lifelike painting, which depicts Charles standing in the Tapestry Room of Dumfries House, Ayshire.

The piece, painted by Australian-born artist Ralph Heimans, was presented to the royal on a visit to Australia House, London, to mark the centenary of the building's completion.

During the visit the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall also unveiled a stone engraving commemorating the anniversary. It mirrors the foundation stone laid by King George V in 1913.

Prince Charles and Camilla admire the striking portrait of His Royal Highness which is hanging at Australia House in London painted by Australian-born Ralph Heimans

Going against tradition of wearing ceremonial dress for royal portraits Charles is in a casual everyday suit for the portrait and holding a walking stick

Camilla was decked out all in black as she joined her husband at the commemoration, adding a pearl necklace to her outfit, while Charles was in a smart navy suit.

They both unveiled the stone outside the building, as well as signing their names in the guest book.

The stone engraving marked the visit of the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall in large gold lettering, commemorating the centenary of the opening.

The royal seemed to find something amusing about seeing himself in the portrait chuckling and pointing at towards the frame while Camilla grinned also

In the window looms a large oak tree which is reflected in the piano in front of the Prince which the artist Ralph Heimans said reflected his love of nature

Charles also addressed guests, including Craig Revel Horwood who had attended a ceremony the previous evening with Camilla.

The painting, which will hang in the Exhibition Hallm was commissioned by Australian billionaire Anthony Pratt, founding patron of the Prince's Trust Australia.

Going against tradition of wearing ceremonial dress for royal portraits Charles is in a casual everyday suit for the portrait and holding a walking stick.

The Duke and Duchess also unveiled a stone engraving that commemorates the centenary and mirrors the foundation stone laid by King George V in 1913

Prince Charles addressed guests as he visited Australia House to celebrate the centenary of its completion on Thursday evening in London

Australia's High Commissioner to the UK George Brandis joined Prince Charles and Camilla on stage after the unveiling of the lifelike painting

Charles was side by side with the portrait as he gave a speech at the commemoration ceremony, speaking about the painting by Ralph Heimans

The artist Ralph Heimans told the Sydney Morning Herald that the painting, which sees the future monarch posting in the Tapestry Room of Dumfries House, was all a nod towards Charles and what he represents.

'He’s committed to protecting nature but he also loves farming and gardening so I depicted him with a walking stick - he has a collection in each of the houses.

'Dumfries House is where he puts his theories into practice - there’s youth training and artists roaming the grounds and... he practices sustainable agriculture, it’s a very dynamic place,' Heimans added.

In the window of the portrait is a looming oak tree that reflects on to the grand piano in front of Charles, which the artist said shows the Prince's love of nature.

Prince Charles shook hands with Australian comic Barry Humphries, better known as his alter ego Dame Edna

After arriving at Australia House the royal duo signed the guest book, which looked near to the end, marking 100 years since it was built in London in 1918

Charles mingled with guests at the event, including Craig Revel Horwood who had attended a ceremony the previous evening with Camilla

Charles watched on as his wife made her mark in the guest book which is situated in the entrance to Australia House

Charles held on to a drink as he chatted with other attendees during the commemoration for Australia House's centenary

Charles chatted animatedly with guests as he held on to a rugby ball during the event to celebrate the centenary

According to the Herald the painting took 18 months for the artist to complete, visiting Dumfries House twice, and another sitting at Birkhall in Scotland.

Heimans has also been commissioned to paint the Queen, the Duke of Edinburgh and Princess Mary previously.

Mr Pratt wrote earlier on Twitter: 'I commissioned Ralph Heimanns [sic] to paint this portrait of His Royal Highness The Prince of Wales," he wrote on Twitter and Instagram.

'It was commissioned on the occasion of His Royal Highness' 70th birthday - he will unveil it tonight at Australia House in London - I’m honoured to be the founding patron of the Princes' Trust Australia through which HRH has championed many worthy causes.'

====== 243 ========

MARLA'S REVEALS A SELFIE OF HERSELF LOOKING LIKE PINHEAD FROM HELLRAISER

Marla Maples has shared a selfie of herself after attempting her own acupuncture on her face, and the results make her look just like Pinhead from the popular horror movie Hellraiser.

The 55-year-old former wife of Donald Trump appeared to have some time on her hands because she decided to use her downtime to practice acupuncture on her own face.



'Don’t leave me at home alone too long,' Marla joked on Instagram Wednesday. 'I’m not a professional but I have loved having facial acupuncture throughout the years and have taken a few notes.'

Selfie time: Marla Maples, 55, shared a selfie after she did acupuncture on her own face

Hilarious: But the selfie made her look just like Pinhead from the movie Hellraiser

She continued: 'So yes I did this myself and laid down to rest & meditate after applying even a few more needles.'

Hilariously, the way she pricked her face made the actress look just like Pinhead from Hellraiser - a demonic character who travels to Earth from another dimension in order to harvest human souls for the satanic god he serves.

Stunning: The 55-year-old revealed she is focusing on de-stressing and also doing treatments that help with fine lines and wrinkles

In the movie, Pinhead is depicted as having many nails stuck into his face and skull, something that occurred when he was transported to a hell dimension as a human, and preyed upon by the evil creatures there.

Although that almost certainly the look that Marla was going for in her selfie, the similarities between the two were quite uncanny, thanks to the many acupuncture needles sticking out from various points on her face.

Marla admitted that aging has made her more focused on acupuncture in hopes it would help with some fine lines and wrinkles.

'I’m grateful for birthdays but woe! After this last one, I noticed many more fine lines and yes, some awesome eye drooping,' she wrote.

'Maybe it’s just my eyesight improving… Tee Hee. I truly believe joy and appreciation of all our earth years is so important, but a few perks or in this case pricks along the way can increase circulation and help de-stress and relax at the same time.'

The woman, who is the second wife to President Donald Trump, might have a lot of time on her hands this holiday season as her daughter, Tiffany Trump, was pictured heading to Mar-a-Lago with the rest of the first family.

Braving the cold: The acupuncture session came before she decided to brave the cold in New York City on Thursday to see the Macy's Thanksgiving Day parade

Busy: It appeared Marla was celebrating the holiday by herself as her daughter, Tiffany Trump, was spotted heading to Mar-a-Lago for Thanksgiving with the rest of the first family

Instead of spending time with her 25-year-old daughter, Marla posted video of herself walking the streets of New York City to watch the Macy's Thanksgiving Day parade Thursday morning.

Marla showed her followers how bundled up she had to get before venturing outside because it was the coldest recorded Macy's parade in history at a blistering 25 degrees.

'I'm so glad I am wearing five layers of clothes,' Marla said as she walked towards a spot where the parade would pass by on the street.

On her Instagram she revealed just how crowded the New York City streets were with families trying to see the parade even though it was freezing outside.

But that didn't stop the holiday spirit as viewers saw a plethora of floats ranging from Christmas themes to one large Spongebob floating through the sky.

It is unclear how long Marla stayed outside to watch the parade before venturing back indoors to get warm.

====== 244 ========

NICOLE KIDMAN, 51, PRAISES MERYL STREEP AND DAME JUDY DENCH

Nicole Kidman praised fellow actresses Meryl Streep and Dame Judy Dench for opening roles in Hollywood to woman aged over 50

Meryl Streep and Dame Judi Dench have ‘paved the way’ for older actresses to keep working in Hollywood, Nicole Kidman said.

Their work had ‘given her a chance’ to win a Golden Globe at the age of 50, said the Oscar winner.

Miss Kidman, now 51, is currently enjoying success in US TV series Big Little Lies.

She said of film executives: ‘There’s a time in this industry where they go “Oh well, you are past your due date … we are moving on to the next thing”.

‘Having people like Meryl Streep and Susan Sarandon and Glenn Close … it gives you a chance,’ she told an audience at Bafta.

‘In this country you’ve got Maggie Smith and Judi Dench, the greats. They are paving the way.’

====== 245 ========

KELLY BROOK STUNS IN BEDAZZLED MIDI DRESS AS SHE JOINS BEAU JEREMY PARISI AT CHARITY GALA

She's no stranger to dazzling on camera and at high-profile events.

And Kelly Brook turned heads as she attended the Street Child gala dinner with her boyfriend Jeremy Parisi at London's Kensington Palace on Thursday evening.

The model, 38, commanded attention as she slipped her famously curvaceous physique into a sequinned midi dress, which featured pretty ruffles throughout.

Power couple: Kelly Brook turned heads as she attended the Street Child gala dinner with her boyfriend Jeremy Parisi at London's Kensington Palace on Thursday evening

Injecting even more sparkle into her look, the TV personality donned a pair of bedazzled strappy heels.

The Loose Women star caught the eye with her striking accessories as she toted a silver clutch and hooped earrings.

Kelly wore her wavy brunette tresses in a half up half down style, and added a pop of colour to her look with dark red lipstick.

Working it! The model, 38, commanded attention as she slipped her famously curvaceous physique into a sequinned midi dress, which featured pretty ruffles throughout

Standing tall: Injecting even more sparkle into her look, the TV personality donned a pair of bedazzled strappy heels

Shining bright: The Loose Women star caught the eye with her striking accessories as she toted a silver clutch and hooped earrings

Model Jeremy, 33, cut a dapper figure as he rocked a grey three-piece suit, crisp white shirt and skinny tie.

The dinner celebrated the charity's 10th birthday and the launch of their Count Me In campaign.

Founded from supported 100 children in Sierra Leone, Street Child has helped 200,000 young people with education.

Demure: Newly-married Princess Eugenie put on a sophisticated display in an elegant blue gown and cropped jacket

Beaming: The 28-year-old royal appeared in high spirits as she took a snap with a pal

Meanwhile, Kelly recently admitted she pursued model boyfriend Jeremy for six months by 'slipping into his DMs' on Instagram before they met in person.

The model has been dating the French-Italian martial arts instructor for over three years after kicking off their relationship by flirting via direct message on the photo-sharing site.

Speaking as she co-hosted Heart Drivetime earlier this month, the radio presenter admitted she initially feared she was being 'catfished' by the hunk until they came face-to-face in real life.

The couple went public with their relationship in April 2015, and Jeremy now lives with Kelly in her Kent home.

Fueling the fire that marriage could be on the cards for the duo, Kelly recently revealed that she had actually proposed to beau Jeremy during a romantic break in February.

She explained he had turned her down because he was so embarrassed by her public display of affection. Kelly took his rejection on the chin, however, confessing during an interview with OK! magazine that the mortified French hunk immediately shut her down.

Making her entrance: Sarah, The Duchess of York wowed in a floor-length dress, complete with sheer sleeves and a diamond waist belt

Kelly said: 'When we were in Antigua and the sun was setting and we were up at Shirley Heights I said to Jeremy, "Will you marry me?" and he said, "Be quiet there are people around!"

'So I tried to propose but he said it was too busy and told me to be quiet! I’ve asked him, but it wasn’t private enough!’

The bombshell is most known for her modelling and TV presenter work but has appeared in 2004 movie School Of Seduction before taking on roles in US sitcom One Big Happy and 2010 movie Piranha 3D.

The star has also been busy recently hosting gardening segments on ITV's This Morning, indulging her passion for the outdoors.

Public donations given to Street Child’s Count Me In campaign before Feb 21 2019 will be matched by the UK Government

====== 246 ========

DUKE OF CAMBRIDGE GOES CASUAL IN TRAINERS AT FOOTBALL GRADUATE AT CEREMONY OF YOUNG PEACE LEADERS

The Duke of Cambridge showed off his football skills at a star-studded event in London on Thursday.

Prince William, 36, swapped his dress shoes for trainers as he took part in drills alongside Arsenal attacker Mesut Ozil at the Copper Box Arena, in London's Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park.

The royal, an Aston Villa supporter, appeared in excellent spirits, laughing and joking as he practised his goal scoring technique alongside the professionals.

Crystal Palace player Mamadou Sakho, French star Bacary Sagna and former England international Carlton Cole also attended.

The group were on hand to organise young people graduating from the Football for Peace's UK City for Peace programme.

Prince William, 36, swapped his dress shoes for trainers as he took part in drills alongside Arsenal attacker Mesut Ozil, left, at the Copper Box Arena, at London's Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park

Ozil later shared this photo of him with Prince William on Instagram and thanked the royal for his time at the event

The Duke of Cambridge gave a speech at the graduation ceremony of 30 Young Peace Leaders from Football for Peace's UK City for Peace programme at the Copper Box Arena in Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, London on Thursday

Crystal Palace player Mamadou Sakho, French star Bacary Sagna, Mathieu Flamini former England international Carlton Cole and manager Avram Grant also attended

The organisation encourages social cohesion by using football to bring children together from different cultures, faiths and backgrounds.

The royal father-of-three was on hand to give a speech to the graduates praising them all for their passion and teamwork.

The Duke attended the ceremony at the Copper Box Arena, in Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, London on Thursday.

He attended a workshop on equality, diversity and inclusion, as well as conflict resolution, which was delivered by Football for Peace tutors and attended by Young Peace Leaders.

The second in line to the throne and a big football fan himself was advised on the best way to approach shooting for the goal by the experts

It isn't known whether he managed to get the ball in the net but William seemed thrilled with his attempt during the drills

The youngsters watched on in anticipation to see how well William did with his shooting while testing out his fancy footwork

His Royal Highness met the charity’s Footballing Ambassadors, teachers and watched over 60 students from six schools in Newham who took part in a Peace Tournament and other football drills sessions led and managed by the Young Peace Leaders.

In a speech ahead of handing out the certificates to the graduates from Birmingham, London and Luton, William said: 'Football is not just a game. It is part of the fabric of this nation – providing a common interest and a unifying identity.

'It brings us together in the enjoyment of a simple pastime, without complication, but with plenty of passion!'

Prince William was seen laughing and joking around with the youngsters as he took part in football drill sessions, making sure he was dressed for the occasion in a pair of trainers

William attended a workshop on equality, diversity and inclusion, as well as conflict resolution, which was delivered by Football for Peace tutors and attended by Young Peace Leaders

The royal praised the graduates passion and teamwork for taking part and said that they were the 'future' of the country helping to break down walls

Reminding his audience that he was a firm Aston Villa football team supporter, he spoke about the 'great deal of pleasure' the sport had brought him over the years.

'[It is] A chance to escape with friends and family and enjoy its virtues – teamwork, competition, fitness and, occasionally on my part, skill.

'I have seen on many occasions the power of football to unite communities – most recently in Israel, where I met young Arab and Jewish Israelis playing together as part of a project called The Equaliser.

'All of you Young Peace Leaders here today have worked together, played together and learned to confront pre-conceptions, stereotypes and negative ideologies.'

Referring to a comment made by another speaker he added: 'You are our future – metaphorically and literally breaking down walls!'

The royal was in good spirits as he spent time with the Peace Leaders who all completed the City For Peave programme in a series of workshops

The father-of-three cheered on the graduates, commending them for their commitment and speaking of his own love of football

The royal said of football: [It is] A chance to escape with friends and family and enjoy its virtues – teamwork, competition, fitness and, occasionally on my part, skill'

Cities for Peace is a programme created by Football for Peace, a global football charity that aims to develop relationships and understanding in marginalised communities around the world.

The organisation encourages social cohesion by using football to bring children together from different cultures, faiths and backgrounds.

By working together, these young people learn to confront preconceptions, stereotypes and extreme ideologies through their shared passion of football.

On the day, the event will honour the organisation’s Young Peace Leaders who have completed the City for Peace programme.

William spent time speaking with the youngsters who had completed the programme praising them for the hard work

Through this programme, Football for Peace works in conjunction with local councils, football clubs and schools to train young people aged 15-18 in how to unite their communities on and off the pitch

William reminded the audience that he was a lifelong fan of Aston Villa and said that football had 'brought me a great deal of pleasure over the years' and a 'chance to escape'

The Duke was seen leaving the event later in the evening. The event coincides with the launch by Football for Peace of the #FootballSavesLives campaign

Through this programme, Football for Peace works in conjunction with local councils, football clubs and schools to train young people aged 15-18 in how to unite their communities on and off the pitch.

From running local football tournaments to organising classroom workshops to discuss issues currently dividing their communities.

This event coincides with the launch by Football for Peace of the #FootballSavesLives campaign, a new pledge to train 500 young people across the UK to become Peace leaders by 2020.

This campaign will be launched on the day with the participation of international football players including.

====== 247 ========

ERIC AND LARA TRUMP AT MAR-A-LAGO FOR THANKSGIVING

Eric and Lara Trump are soaking up the sunshine at Mar-A-Lago, where the First Family has descended to enjoy the Thanksgiving holiday.

Lara could be seen walking around her father-in-law's resort in a red bikini on Wednesday after flying into West Palm Beach the night before.

As Lara walked across the grass she sported a matching red cap, although it was unclear if it was one of Donald Trump's infamous MAGA hats.

Following loyally behind Lara was a pup that appeared to be the family's beloved dog Charlie.

Eric and Lara Trump (pictured) are soaking up the sunshine at Mar-A-Lago, where the First Family has descended to enjoy the Thanksgiving holiday

Lara could be seen walking around her father-in-law's resort in a red bikini on Wednesday after flying into West Palm Beach the night before

As Lara walked across the grass she sported a matching red cap, although it was unclear if it was one of Donald Trump's infamous MAGA hats

While Lara enjoyed some time alone in the sun, Eric took their son Luke for a walk around the resort.

Eric could be seen holding Luke's hand and carrying him as they enjoyed views of the water by Mar-a-Lago.

The doting father also snapped a few photos of his son playing in the grass.

Eric later took to his personal Instagram to share photos of Luke enjoying the walk, at one point even playing in a toy Monster Truck with Charlie.

Following loyally behind Lara was a pup that appeared to be the family's beloved dog Charlie

Lara and the dog could be seen walking around the grass at the upscale West Palm Beach resort, where Trump frequently golfs

'It's a pretty sweet day to be a kid,' Eric captioned the photo, adding the hashtags #CoastGuard #MonsterTruck#CharlieDog.

A number of the Trump family members will be spending Thanksgiving at the Florida estate, including the president himself.

Trump vowed he'd be working hard at Mar-a-Lago, even though the Florida property is also one of his favorite locations to play golf.

The president and his family were heading to Mar-a-Lago on Tuesday afternoon for their annual holiday retreat when he stopped to hold one last impromptu news conference with reporters.

While Lara enjoyed some time alone in the sun, Eric took their son Luke for a walk around Mar-a-Lago on Tuesday

Eric could be seen holding Luke's hand and carrying him as they enjoyed views of the water by the resort

He later snapped some photos of Luke by the water, which he happily shared on Instagram

'It's a pretty sweet day to be a kid,' Eric captioned the photo, adding the hashtags #CoastGuard #MonsterTruck#CharlieDog

He also snapped a photo of Luke in his toy Monster Truck with Charlie by the ocean

'We're going now to the southern White House,' Trump said as he departed 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. 'We have a lot of work we're going to be doing in Florida.'

The Trump clan typically spends the week of Thanksgiving ensconced in the billionaire's private club in Palm Beach, and this year looks to be no different.

If the past is precedent, the president is also likely to spend his days golfing at another club he owns across town.

When Trump left on Tuesday he was joined by first lady Melania Trump, his son Barron and daughters Tiffany and Ivanka for the ride on Air Force One.

It was the first time Barron has been spotted since August, when he joined his parents for a flight back from Bedminster, New Jersey to Washington DC.

Luke could be seen carrying Luke during the walk as they enjoyed the sunshine together

At one point he was seen kneeling down to help or say something to his son during the walk

Barron was nowhere to be seen earlier on Tuesday when President Trump pardoned the Thanksgiving turkey, and was also absent from Monday's arrival of the White House Christmas Tree. He attended both ceremonies last year.

It's unclear if Trump's eldest son Donald Jr - who is based in New York - will be at Mar-a-Lago for the holiday.

Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law, and the three children he shares with Ivanka were not traveling on Tuesday to Florida with the rest of the first family, although they had been at the White House for the turkey pardoning earlier in the day.

The first family boarded Air Force One with coats but had ditched them by the time they deplaned in West Palm Beach.

Melania Trump swapped out her black jeans and $9,400 Dior coat for a white dress and turquoise heels.

Trump vowed he'd be working hard at Mar-a-Lago this week as he left with Melania and son Barron, who was seen for the first time since August

Trump daughters Tiffany (left) and Ivanka (right) also flew to Florida on Air Force One

Eric Trump was seen alongside Lara and son Luke land aboard the Trump plane in West Palm Beach on Tuesday ahead of Thanksgiving weekend

Golf has been a steady presence in the president's down time.

Nearly every day over previous breaks, the president has left Mar-A-Lago early in the day to travel by motorcade to Trump International Golf Club.

The private course is not visible from the road, save for one hole where CNN has repeatedly captured Trump driving around in a golf cart on days when the White House refused to confirm the president was playing.

He has returned to Mar-a-Lago on those occasions late in the afternoon for dinner with his family, supporters, club members and politicians that are closed to press, although he has not always been able to prevent photos from landing on social media.

Melania deboarded Air Force One in West Palm Beach in a white dress, switching out of the coat and jeans she left Washington in

Lara Trump arrived with husband Eric in West Palm Beach Tuesday night holding son Luke and leading her two dogs

Last year, Trump spent his first full day of his Thanksgiving trip at his golf club in West Palm Beach. And he spent part of Thanksgiving Day there.

The season at Mar-a-Lago begins annually at the end of October, but Trump is taking his first trip there this year closer to the end of November.

Last year, the first family spent so many weekends on the property that it was dubbed the ‘Winter White House,’ a nickname that even the president has used. He has also referred to Florida as his adopted home.

As of October, Trump has played golf 159 times since becoming president - mostly at his properties in Florida, in Bedminster, New Jersey and near Sterling, Virginia.

====== 248 ========

RITA ORA LOOKS GLAMOROUS WITH PEROXIDE BLONDE BLOW DRY AND RED LIP ON WAY TO THANKSGIVING PARADE

She always stands out in a series of quirky outfits on the red carpet, out and about as well as hanging out with her friends.

And Rita Ora pulled off her most stylish look yet when she burst onto the New York City's Thanksgiving Day Parade on Thursday.

The singer, 27, looked breathtaking as she styled her peroxide blonde blow dry in bouncy waves and she applied a red lipstick.

Fantastic: Rita Ora looked glamorous with peroxide blonde blow dry and red lip on way to NYC's Thanksgiving Day Parade on Thursday as she voiced fears about missing out on The One

Rita bundled on the layers as she wrapped up in a shiny padded jacket over her chiffon lace-trimming edged dress to keep the bite to the air off her bare skin.

Rita added finishing touches of glamour with her delicate statement earrings which complemented her sparkling eye shadow.

The blonde bombshell hung up her heels in favour of chunky boots.

Ultra glam: The singer, 27, looked breathtaking as she styled her peroxide blonde blow dry in bouncy waves and she applied a red lipstick

Keep warm: Rita bundled on the layers as she wrapped up in a shiny puffer jacket over her chiffon lace-trimming edged dress to keep the bite to the air off her bare skin

It's been a whirlwind week for Rita who arrived in New York City on Tuesday ahead of the parade after she hosted a party for her new record with her pals in London.

Recently, Rita dropped her latest album which is made up of some very honest songs about falling in and out of love.

The singer, who has had headline-grabbing romances with Calvin Harris and Rob Kardashian, admitted she finds it hard to be vulnerable in relationships.

So stylish: Rita added finishing touches of glamour with her delicate statement earrings which complemented her sparkling eye shadow

Happy to trendset: She always stands out in a series of quirky outfits on the red carpet, out and about as well as hanging out with her friends

Centre stage: Rita looked confident and poise when she clambered upon the moving parade ahead of her glittering performance

So busy: It's been a whirlwind week for Rita who arrived in New York City on Tuesday ahead of the parade after she hosted a party for her new record with her pals in London

Great time: The singer looked overjoyed when she immersed herself in the excitement of the parade

Honesty is the best policy: Recently, Rita dropped her latest album which is made up of some very honest songs about falling in and out of love

She voiced her concerns she could be missing out on "The One" because of her fear of letting herself get too vulnerable when she discussed her song Let You Love Me.

Rita told this week's edition of Stylist magazine: 'It's about that time when all you can think about is having a good time and you don't realise you're spending time with someone who actually likes you and could have been "The One"; all the missed opportunities.'

However, the Let You Love Me hitmaker revealed she has finally learnt how to speak about her feelings and ask for help when she needs it.

Past heartaches: The singer, who has had headline-grabbing romances with Calvin Harris and Rob Kardashian, admitted she finds it hard to be vulnerable in relationships

The truth: She voiced her concerns she could be missing out on "The One" because of her fear of letting herself get too vulnerable when she discussed her song Let You Love Me

She told the publication: 'I've learnt how to get in tune with my feelings, how to speak about my feelings, how to ask for help when I think I need it.'

Aside from romance, Rita also shared her insecurities about her body as the superstar insisted she was just like every other woman.

She said: 'I'm like every other girl. I have things that I don't like about my body. I'm insecure about things. Sometimes I think, "Oh gosh, did I say the right thing?".'

====== 249 ========

COLDEST MACY'S THANKSGIVING DAY PARADE EVER GETS UNDERWAY IN NYC

New Yorkers bundled up as they watched iconic floats and performances in Thursday's Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade - proving that the cold never bothered them anyway.

Millions tried to stay warm as they watched fantastic musical numbers kick off the parade as it made its way through Manhattan's streets.

Dozens of marching bands and performances made the 92nd annual parade one to remember, with special appearances from Diana Ross, John Legend, Bad Bunny, Tracee Ellis Ross, Ella Mai, Martina McBride, Sugarland, Bare Naked Ladies, Pentatonix, Rita Ora, Anika Noni Rose, Kelly Clarkson, Ashley Tisdale, Kane Brown, Fifth Harmony, Tina Fey, the Muppets from Sesame Street and more.





The parade featured 16 massive balloons and 26 large floats. It also included a dozen marching bands and more than 20 music acts.

Tom Turkey - which kicked off the parade in Midtown - was actually built around a Toyota Ram truck this year for the first time. It is usually pulled by willing participants and was introduced into the parade in 1971.

92nd annual Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade kicked off on Thursday as millions bundled up to enjoy the holiday's festivities

Millions cozied up to each other as they watched fantastic musical numbers kick off the parade as it made its way through Manhattan's streets

Thursday's forecast showed a high of 27 degrees and lows of 19 degrees, with winds blowing up to 25mph and gusts up to 30mph, marking New York City's coldest Thanksgiving in over a century

John Legend and Rita Ora were just some of the celebrity acts who performed during the parade

Diana Ross dazzles at the 92nd annual Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York on Thursday

Thursday's forecast showed a high of 27 degrees and lows of 19degrees, with winds blowing up to 25mph and gusts up to 30mph, marking New York City's coldest Thanksgiving in over a century.

The last time Turkey day was this cold was more than a century ago on November 28, 1901, when temperatures were a freezing 26 degrees, according to ABC7's Accuweather-Alert. Temperatures in 1871 were as low as 15 degrees with a high of 22.

The NYPD also said they were prepared to order the massive helium-filled balloons to a lower altitude or removed if winds exceed 23mph.

Oven ready! People try to stay warm in their turkey costumes adorned with Christmas accessories

You have the right to remain happy! A fun clown police officer poses in front of actual policeman at the parade

Ashley Tisdale (left) and Leona Lewis (right) also performed during the parade

Pilgrims sit on top of the turkey float as the parade kicks off

A young spectator braves the harsh cold as she watches the show

'If we have to call an audible on the day of, and make an adjustment, we'll do so,' Chief of Patrol Rodney Harrison said at a Wednesday press conference. 'Thirty-four mile per hour wind gusts is when we say, "OK, we gotta bring it all the way down to the ground."'

The parade beefed up security to ensure that everyone could enjoy the festivities.

This year was no different as officers walked with loaded weapons and guard dogs as they patrolled the city.

Tracee Ellis Ross, Ashlee Simpson and Evan Ross all came to support Mama Ross as she performed at the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade

Simpson and Ross were also joined by their kids Bronx and Jagger

The parade beefed up security to ensure that everyone could have fun during the festivities

Throughout New York City, security bars could be seen blocking access to mailboxes and trash disposals to prevent bombs being placed inside them

Staying warm: Some families enjoyed the parade from the comfort of their own homes and the heat

Ronald McDonald and Diary of a Wimpy Kid's Greg Heffley make there way downtown

Throughout New York City, security bars could be seen blocking access to mailboxes and trash disposals in an effort to prevent bombs being put inside them.

K-9 units could be seen throughout the city, capable of sniffing out potential trouble from up to a few hundred feet away.

The parade began at 9am on Thursday, with marching bands, performers from Broadway hits, elaborate floats and signature giant balloons.

Chase from Paw Patrol made his second trip - along with Jett from Super Wings and Olaf from Frozen - in the parade as one of the massive floats that dazzled the city.

Gotta catch em all! Pikachu electrifies a crowd as it makes its way downtown

Chase - the German Shepherd puppy from Paw Patrol - made an early arrival to the parade

Clowning away! These goofy people were ready to enjoy the annual parade

Sunny side up! A performer wearing an egg costume is showered with funfetti

A Red Ranger is ready to punch his way through the parade

Staying warm! Families wrapped blankets around themselves to keep warm

The Fred Estaire Dance Company made its first appearance in the parade and honored the classic musician.

Many on social media took issue with Rita Ora's performance as she appeared to be lip syncing. John Legend came to her defense and revealed that everyone was lip syncing because the floats 'don't have the capacity to handle the sound requirements for a live performance.'

The parade has been held annually since 1924, and has featured large balloons since 1931.

It travels for 46 blocks, making its way from Central Park West all the way down to midtown Manhattan.

Charlie Brown, the kid that never gives up, is pulled along the route of the parade

Former hockey players Mike Richter (New York Rangers) and Bernie Parent (Philadelphia Flyer) pose for a photo on the 2018 Discover NHL Thanksgiving Showdown Float

Many on social media took issue with Rita Ora's performance as she appeared to be lip syncing

John Legend came to her defense and revealed that everyone was lip syncing because the floats 'don't have the capacity to handle the sound requirements for a live performance'

Santa Claus makes his grand arrival to indicate the start of the Christmas and holiday season

High winds have forced the balloons to be removed from the route just once, in 1971, when winds gusted up to 45 miles per hour.

In 1997, high winds forced the character balloons to be carried very close to the ground, limiting the view of spectators. One woman suffered a fractured skull and was left in a coma for a month.

Rules changes eliminated larger balloons from subsequent parades after the 1997 fiasco.

Injuries also occurred at the parade in 1993 and 2005, both times when balloons struck lamp posts or street lights. Two were injured in both of the events

Al Roker, Savannah Guthrie and Hoda Kotb hosted the parade for NBC

Wednesday's setup included practice runs with the floats - the Afleck one is pictured - to ensure that they would be fine

====== 250 ========

PARIS HILTON SMILES AS SHE LANDS IN MELBOURNE AFTER CHRIS ZYLKA SPLIT

A makeup free Paris Hilton flashed a huge smile to star-struck onlookers as she landed in Melbourne from Dubai on Thursday night.

The 37-year-old showed no signs of strain following her split from fiancé Chris Zylka as she strolled out of the airport ahead of her Australian fragrance launch on Friday.

Just hours before landing, claims emerged that her former husband-to-be 'didn't buy' her $2M engagement ring but 'still wants it back' as their breakup turns bitter.

Scroll down for video

Putting on a brave face? Paris Hilton flashes a smile as she lands in Melbourne... as former fiancé Chris Zylka 'wants $2M engagement ring back' despite 'not buying it'

As Paris continues to mourn the end of her two-year relationship with Chris, which is believed to have ended earlier this month, she stepped out wearing all black.

The beauty appeared to have dressed comfortably for her flight, slipping into a matching velour tracksuit with flared trousers and slim-fitting hooded top.

Keen to give the outfit a bit of star quality, Paris proudly donned a t-shirt with several high-end designers names boldly printed across the chest.

Shielding her eyes from the terminal's fluorescent lighting following her late-night arrival, Paris accessorised the look with a pair of her signature over-sized glasses.

Looking good! The 37-year-old showed no signs of strain following her split from fiance Chris Zylka as she strolled out of the airport ahead of her Australian fragrance launch on Friday

What drama? Just hours before landing, claims emerged that her former fiance Chris Zylka 'didn't buy' her $2M engagement ring but 'still wants it back' as their breakup turns bitter

A pro: After over two decades in the business, Paris proved why she's still sitting at the top by happily taking the time to pose with fans waiting in the terminal

Despite the dark ensemble, Paris's luscious blonde locks flowed freely from beneath her black baseball cap.

Her typically flawless visage appeared to be as glowing as ever despite the noticeable lack of makeup, excluding her perfectly applied lip-gloss.

After more than two decades in the business, Paris proved why she's still sitting at the top by happily taking the time to pose with fans waiting in the terminal.

Overwhelmed by her very warm welcome, Paris was then seen capturing content on her iPhone, possibly for social media, before heading to her hotel.

Sadness: As Paris continues to mourn the end of her two year relationship with actor Chris, which is believed to have ended earlier this month, she stepped out wearing all black

Natural beauty: Her typically flawless visage appeared to be as glowing as usual despite the noticeable lack of makeup, excluding her perfectly applied lip-gloss

Fresh after the flight! Despite the dark ensemble, Paris's luscious blonde locks flowed freely from beneath her black baseball cap

Paris is in Australia to promote her latest fragrance, Platinum Rush.

The star will be appearing at the Chemist Warehouse in Melbourne's Highpoint Shopping Centre on November 23rd at 4pm.

'Can't wait to see you all,' Paris gushed on Instagram before landing in Australia.

Meet and greet: The star will be appearing at the Chemist Warehouse in Melbourne's Highpoint Shopping Centre on November 23rd at 4pm

Bad timing for a public tour? Prior to her arrival Down Under, Page Six had claimed that Paris's ex Chris Zylka had hoped to retrieve the $2 million engagement ring he had gave to her

Prior to her arrival Down Under, Page Six had claimed that Paris's ex Chris Zylka had hoped to retrieve the $2 million engagement ring he had previously gave to her.

Complicating the matter is that Chris apparently didn't spend any money on the 20-carat ring, insiders told the American publication.

The actor, who's been seen on The Leftovers and The Amazing Spider-Man, received the sparkler free of charge from Michael Greene, a jeweller-to-the-stars who's close with the Stars Are Blind songstress, sources told the outlet.

Not so amicable end? Complicating the matter is that Chris apparently didn't spend any money on the 20-carat ring, the insiders told the American publication

Say cheese! Overwhelmed by her very warm welcome, Paris was seen capturing content on her iPhone, possibly for social media, before heading to her hotel

The 5ft8 socialite is going to keep the expensive piece of jewellery, sources claimed, adding, 'The ring is hers.'

The media outlet reported that Chris has a net worth of around $4 million, a fraction of the $300 million the hotel heiress's empire is estimated to be valued at.

Chris had raised the funds to pay for the ring by selling 'very valuable and lucrative' art pieces he'd created, a spokesperson for the former couple previously said.

'The ring is hers': The 5ft8 socialite is going to keep the expensive piece of jewellery, sources told American outlet Page Six

Mystery of the $2 million ring: Chris had raised the funds to pay for the ring by selling 'very valuable and lucrative' art pieces he'd created, a rep for the former couple previously said

Although Paris has mostly remained silent on the split so far, she addressed the breakup by quoting Marilyn Monroe on Instagram on Monday.

The 37-year-old socialite posted a GIF of herself styled like Marilyn with starry effects, affixing the sentiment from the Hollywood icon.

'My favorite Marilyn Monroe quote,' she wrote.

'I believe that everything happens for a reason. People change so that you can learn to let go. Things go wrong so that you appreciate them when they're right.'

====== 251 ========

KATE HUDSON SPENDS THANKSGIVING MORNING PUMPING BREAST MILK AND SWEATING THROUGH WORKOUT

New mom Kate Hudson kicked off Thanksgiving morning with a pumping session and a workout.

The 39-year-old actress, who gave birth to daughter Rani Rose on October 2, documented her busy start to the day for her fans on Instagram.

Kate and boyfriend Danny Fujikawa are hosting 30 people for dinner, but she had plenty to squeeze in first.

Back at it! New mom Kate Hudson manged a seven mile ride on Thanksgiving morning in her first workout in 'months'

The dreaded pump: The actress reflected on the 'miracle of life' while pumping breast milk for her daughter Rani on Thursday morning

She shared a video of her Medela breast pump working away, along with the caption: 'Thankful for the miracle of life and really working on gratitude for my pump #EffortCounts #RanisFirstTurkeyDay #HappyThanksgiving'

She then hit her home gym for her first workout 'in months.'

She managed a seven mile ride and proudly shared her achievement with her fans on Insta Story.

Busy: Kate spent Wednesday preparing to host 30 people for Thanksgiving dinner

Kate is celebrating her first Thanksgiving as a mother of three; along with baby Rani, she already has sons Ryder, 14, and Bingham, seven, from previous relationships.

It's certainly a festive week for the family - her mom Goldie Hawn turned 73 on Wednesday.

Kate announced she had given birth to her baby daughter on her Instagram page back in October.

She wrote: "We have decided to name our daughter Rani (pronounced Ronnie) after her grandfather, Ron Fujikawa. Ron was the most special man who we all miss dearly. To name her after him is an honor.

'Everyone is doing well and happy as can be. Our family thanks you for all the love and blessings that have been sent our way and we send ours right back."

====== 252 ========

PRIYANKA CHOPRA, 36, POSTS ROMANTIC SNAP WITH NICK JONAS, 26, ONE WEEK BEFORE TYING THE KNOT

They're getting married in a little over one week.

Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas are about to tie the knot but the couple look like they've already entered the honeymoon stage in a new photo that the blushing bride-to-be posted on Instagram Thursday.

The 36-year-old Bollywood star and her 26-year-old pop star fiance will wed at a lavish Indian palace on December 1.

In love: A week before saying 'I do,' Priyanka Chopra took to Instagram to post a loved up photo with fiance Nick Jonas on Thursday

In the photo, the future Mr and Mrs were shot in an extreme close up, nuzzling one another with their eyes closed.

The couple's expressions are one of pure bliss.

'Welcome home baby,' the Quantico star captioned the image. She added a smiling emoji with heart eyes,

In just a handful of days, Priyanka is set to walk down the aisle and say 'I do' at a spectacular $60,000 a night wedding venue in India.

Bride goals: Nick and Priyanka will wed at a lavish palace in India on December 1

The venue is India's last living palace, Umaid Bhawan in Jodhpur, which comes complete with butler service, strutting peacocks and a couple's massage room.

The lavish palace features 65 original Art Deco bedrooms and suites featuring antiques, with each room costing an eye-watering $922 per person per night.

It's been all wedding, all the time for the actress recently who was honored by her friends and family at swanky bridal shower at Tiffany's in New York last month.

Bridal party! The Quantico star recently enjoyed a lavish bridal shower in New York and then a whirlwind bachelorette party weekend in Amsterdam wiith a small group of friends

Wedding registry: The bride-to-be asked for a few adorable trinkets that read mrs and wifey on their Amazon wedding registry

Shortly after, she jetted off with a small group to Amsterdam for a whirlwind bachelorette weekend.

Sister-in-law-to-be, Sophie Turner, of Game of Thrones fame, was by Priyanka's side during the whole celebration.

Priyanka was also recently tapped by Amazon to display her bridal registry with the online retailer.

The couple listed things like a wifey eye mask and cutlery, as well us more unusual asks like roller blades.

In love! The Jonas Bro popped the question on Priyanka's 36th birthday in London

Nick recently gifted his groomsmen electric scooters. The musician decided to give his party of ushers and his best man an unusual gift to mark the special occasion.

Posting a picture of himself next to a pool, surrounded by six Lime scooters, he wrote: "I was searching for a fun way for my groomsmen to be mobile and ready to roll - so I called up my friends at @Limebikefor some help... #groomsmengift #CitrusGotReal (sic)"

The post - which was a paid promotion with the Lime bike brand - had his three brothers Kevin, Joe, and Frankie, as well as Priyanka's brother Siddharth, and actor Jonathan Tucker all tagged as each of the scooters, suggesting they will make up his groomsmen.

Nick popped the question in London during Priyanka's 36th birthday just three months ago after dating since May of 2017.

====== 253 ========

CARA DELEVINGNE AND ASHLEY BENSON WEAR MATCHING GOLD RINGS ON THEIR WEDDING FINGERS

They've been inseparable in recent months, despite laughing off rumours of a romance.

And now Cara Delevingne, 26, and her rumoured girlfriend Ashley Benson, 28, were spotted wearing matching rings on their wedding fingers as they enjoyed an evening at the Mandrake Hotel in London on Wednesday.

Cara's distinctively tattooed hand displayed a thin metal band on her engagement finger, while Ashley wore an equally slender ring on hers.

What's going on? Cara Delevingne , 26, and her rumoured girlfriend Ashley Benson, 28, have been spotted wearing matching rings on their wedding fingers

The couple arrived together side by side, dressed in strikingly coordinated ensembles.

Clad in biker boots and long-line black wrap over coats, Ashley wore a slate grey pair of skinny jeans, whereas Cara opted for a jet black pair.

As they made their way towards the hotel, Ashley kept her hands tucked away inside her pockets, while Cara typed away on her mobile phone, with her new bling on show.

Ashley opted to drape the long strap of her stylish mini bag across her body, and Cara carried a backpack with gold hard-wear over her shoulders.

Engaged? On Wednesday the pair stepped out wearing matching rings on their wedding fingers, with Cara's distinctively tattooed hand (pictured) displaying a thin metal band

Married? Ashley also wearing an equally slender ring on her engagement finger (pictured)

First to leave: Shielding herself away from a bitterly cold evening in the capital, Cara wore a balaclava across her face as she left the hotel

English actress' Suki Waterhouse and Jamie Winstone were also spotted at the venue, along with Lady Mary Charteris.

Shielding herself away from a bitterly cold evening in the capital, Cara wore a balaclava across her face as she left the hotel.

Dressed all in an black ensemble, Cara was the first of the couple to head home, but according to an onlooker, Ashley jumped into the same awaiting car after leaving separately at around 2.15am.

We see you: Even though Ashley tied her hair up and attempted to hide away from photographers, clad in her distinctive boots and grey skinny jeans she was easily-identifiable

Unmissable: With her hand on her friend's shoulder, Ashley's hand was clearly on display, complete with a black manicure and, more importantly, a slender band on her wedding finger

Even though the American actress tied her hair up and attempted to hide away from photographers, clad in her distinctive boots and grey skinny jeans she was easily-identifiable.

With her hand on her friend's shoulder, Ashley's hand was clearly on display, complete with a black manicure and, more importantly, a slender band on her wedding finger.

MailOnline has contacted representatives for Cara Delevingne and Ashley Benson for comment.

She and the Pretty Little Liars star have been romantically linked for months, but despite the swirling speculation they are dating, neither have confirmed the claims.

When asked about their relationship recently by PEOPLE, Ashley wouldn't confirm or deny the romance.

'I think it's the best way in any relationship,' she said. 'I've always been very private about them, and I think it's just better.'

====== 254 ========

CHRISTINA MILIAN GOES MAKE-UP FREE AS SHE JOINS BOYFRIEND M. POKORA AND THEIR FAMILIES FOR DINNER

She famously had a hit with AM to PM.

And Christina Milian pulled off a look which took her effortlessly from day to night, as she stepped out make-up free in Beverly Hills, California, on Wednesday night.

The 37-year-old singer looked stunning as she enjoyed a Thanksgiving-eve supper with her boyfriend M. Pokora, 33, at the celebrity haunt, Madeo restaurant.

Family night: Christina Milian pulled off a look which took her effortlessly from day to night, as she stepped out make-up free in Beverly Hills, California, on Wednesday night with her boyfriend M. Pokora

The Dip It Low star showcased her slender physique in skin-tight cropped jeans, which clung to her hips.

The petite 5ft2in beauty teamed it with a snug fluffy white sweater, perfect to the rainy Los Angeles evening.

Sparkly silver sneakers added a playful twist to her simple yet stylish outfit.

Happy: The 37-year-old singer looked stunning as she enjoyed a Thanksgiving-eve supper at the celebrity haunt, Madeo restaurant

The two-time Grammy nominee let her natural beauty shine through and wore her raven locks down.

Her French beau, meanwhile, kept it casual in black jeans and a matching T-shirt.

Over the top her added a red and black checked shirt, which had bleach marks styled into the fabric.

Getting serious? The Dip It Low star showcased her slender physique in skin-tight cropped jeans, which clung to her hips alongside her French beau

Cosy: The petite 5ft2in beauty teamed it with a snug fluffy white sweater, perfect to the rainy Los Angeles evening

Radiant: The two-time Grammy nominee let her natural beauty shine through and wore her raven locks down

The couple were joined at dinner by their families, and Christina shared an image of them gathered around the dining table with her Instagram followers.

'Family. Both french and American. Came out to celebrate a real one,' she captioned the snap.

The Family Guy actress has been dating the musician, whose real name is Matthieu Tota, since August 2017.

All together: The couple were joined at dinner by their families, and Christina shared an image of them gathered around the dining table with her Instagram followers

The star is mother to daughter Violet, eight. Violet's father is Christina's ex-husband The-Dream whom she divorced in 2011, after wedding in 2009.

Christina went on to date Lil Wayne before hooking up with Matt last August in St. Tropez.

Speaking to Life & Style last month, she spoke about her hopes of tying the knot again and having another child.

'I definitely want to have more kids,' she said. 'And I would love to get married again, too, especially to somebody that I love and that's open and wants to do it. Sure, they can spring the ring on me anytime!'

====== 255 ========

ASHLEY TISDALE ENJOYS NY STROLL WITH HUSBAND CHRISTOPHER FRENCH BEFORE THANKSGIVING PERFORMANCE

They are used to the sunnier west coast weather.

But Ashley Tisdale and husband Christopher French clearly came prepared for the chillier east coast as they bundled up on Wednesday.

The couple were spotted enjoying a stroll and some hot coffees during their Thanksgiving visit to New York, ahead of the singer's parade performance.

Toasty: Ashley Tisdale and husband Christopher French clearly came prepared for the chillier east coast as they bundled up on Wednesday

Ashley, 33, sported a thick brown fleece winter coat, with cosy black Uggs, leggings, a heavy scarf and gloves.

Her 36-year-old hubby meanwhile rocked white high-tops and black jeans, a light grey shirt and a smart double-breasted black coat.

On Instagram, Ashley shared with her 10.5million followers what she was most thankful for, with a pic of her man and their dog.

Getting ready: The couple were spotted enjoying a stroll and some hot coffees during their Thanksgiving visit to New York, ahead of the singer's parade performance

The High School Musical alum had a big role to play in this year's celebrations as one of the performers in the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade.

'I’m excited,' she told E! News ahead of the slot, revealing she would sing one of the songs from her new album Symptoms.

'I’ve done it in the past, but [this time] I’m performing Voices in My Head,' she said.

Cute pair: On Instagram, Ashley shared with her 10.5million followers what she was most thankful for, with a pic of her man, and their dog

The songstress worked with Goldfinger frontman John Feldmann on what is her third studio album.

Ashley's last album was 2009's Guilty Pleasure, which debuted at No. 12 on the Billboard 200.

Ashley has been married to singer Christopher for four years, after they tied the knot during a secret ceremony at an undisclosed location following a year-long engagement.

====== 256 ========

DREW BARRYMORE AND EX-HUSBAND TAKE DAUGHTER FRANKIE TO SEE MACY'S THANKSGIVING DAY PARADE BALLOONS

Drew Barrymore is embracing the festive spirit this Thanksgiving.

The 43-year-old and her ex-husband Will Kopelman, 40, reunited to take their four-year-old daughter Frankie to check out the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade balloons on Wednesday.

The larger than life inflatables were being blown up ahead of the annual Thanksgiving extravaganza on Thursday.

Holiday cheer: Drew Barrymore and her ex-husband Will Kopelman took their four-year-old daughter Frankie to check out the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade balloon inflation on Wednesday in New York

The balloons almost didn't make it to the parade this year as frigid temperatures and high winds threatened to spoil the fun.

On Thursday, the winds died down enough for the characters to take flight. However, it's shaping up to be the coldest Thanksgiving in the parade's history.

Bundled up in the frigid New York temperatures, the trio was spotted on a stroll together through Central Park.

It's unseasonably cold on the East Coast at the moment and Drew made sure to keep she and her toddler warm as toast.

Brrr: The temperature in New York is some of the coldest on record and Drew bundled up to fight the chill this week

Making it work: The Santa Clarita Diet star and her ex-husband seemed amicable with their daughter despite divorcing in 2016

The mother of two rocked some high top black Converse sneakers and a pair of wide leg grey slacks with a long white duster sweater.

On top she kept warm under a brownish wool coat that fell to her knees and a chunky grey scarf.

Her blonde locks fell in waves beneath wide brimmed black hat.

Keeping it casual: Drew looked comfortable in a pair of sneakers and a long wool coat with a chunky grey scarf around her neck

Things between the former couple looked amicable as they walked together through the park.

Will, who was also bundled in a winter coat, pushed the couple's youngest daughter in a stroller.

The former couple married in 2012 but split a few years later, finalizing their divorce in 2016.

Family of four: Will and Drew share two daughters together, four-year-old Frankie (pictured) and six-year-old Olive

Barrymore dynasty: The ET star recently told People Magazine that she didn't want her girls to follow in her acting footsteps

Together they share two daughters, Frankie and older sister, six-year-old Olive.

The Santa Clarita Diet star recently told People Magazine that she didn't want her girls to follow in her footsteps.

'I'm not going to let them be kid actors,' she told People magazine. 'That's so not their journey.'

Drew was just three years old when she was thrust into the public eye, playing the adorable Gertie in E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial.

====== 257 ========

BRAD PITT AND ANGELINA JOLIE 'ARE CLOSE TO SETTLING' THEIR BITTER CUSTODY BATTLE

They've been marred in a bitter custody battle for the what seems like an eternity.

But Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie are apparently close to an agreement regarding their six children, according to a report from The Blast.

According to the outlet's sources, the 54-year-old actor and 43-year-old actress are wrapping things up because, they 'realized the ongoing fight is only hurting the children.'

Moving forward: Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie are apparently going to be settling the matter soon, according to reports from The Blast

According to the report, their goal is 'to wrap up negotiations before the private custody trial begins.'

Despite Jolie fighting for Pitt to receive minimal custody, the deal 'will include a substantial amount of time given to the World War Z star.'

However, the two sides still have not signed the agreement.

Next up for the duo, they will have to hash out their finances. It remains unclear how the two will divide up their millions of dollars in cash and property.

The couple did not sign a prenup when they wed on August 23, 2014 in France.

For the kids: According to the outlet's sources, the 54-year-old actor and 43-year-old actress are wrapping things up because, they 'realized the ongoing fight is only hurting the children.'

According to US Weekly reports on Tuesday, Pitt had reached out to his estranged wife asking to settle out of court.

The A River Runs Through It actor hoped 'persuade' her that a 'hearing will cause lasting psychological damage' to their kids, the outlet's source revealed.

They are parents to six children: Maddox, 17; Pax, 14; Zahara, 13; Shiloh, 12; twins Knox and Vivienne, 10.

US Weekly's insider added: 'There will be no winners, no matter what the judge decides.'

No trial: According to the report, their goal is 'to wrap up negotiations before the private custody trial begins'

The couple got engaged in April 2012, and married on August 23, 2014, after nine years together.

Jolie filed for divorce from Pitt on September 19, 2016, citing irreconcilable differences.

Just days before the filing there was an alleged 'altercation' that involved Brad and Maddox aboard a private jet that was heading from Nice, France to Los Angeles, California.

Brad was cleared of any wrongdoing.

====== 258 ========

CHRISTINA EL MOUSSA IS ALL SMILES AS SHE IS SPOTTED BACK FILMING FLIP OR FLOP ALONGSIDE EX TAREK

She recently hit back at tabloid claims of a feud between her and Fixer Upper star Joanna Gaines.

And Christina El Moussa was all smiles as she was back on set filming her HGTV series, alongside ex-husband Tarek.

The now-divorced pair were spotted in Anaheim Hills, California, on Wednesday, filming Flip or Flop.

Shaking off feud claims: Christina El Moussa was all smiles as she was back on set filming her HGTV series

The blonde beauty looked ready for action in a grey peplum top, which made the most of her curves.

She showcased her slender legs in skintight blue jeans, and added extra inches with stacked ankle boots.

Christina - who is now dating British former policeman Ant Anstead, 39 - looked delighted to be back on set as she displayed a giant grin.

Still colleagues: She was spotted alongside ex-husband Tarek in Anaheim Hills, California, on Wednesday, filming Flip or Flop

To keep up the glamour, she covered her eyes with oversized dark glasses.

The star recently hit back at tabloids for fabricating fake a 'beef' story against fellow HGTV star Joanna Gaines.

The supposed clash came after it was announced that Joanna Gaines and her husband Chip Gaines are launching their own network with Discovery, which owns HGTV.

Blonde beauty: To keep up the glamour, she covered her eyes with oversized dark glasses

El Moussa, 35, didn't pull any punches regarding the InTouch report, opening a recent Instagram post with, 'What a load of bulls**t.'

'I’ve never commented on a tabloid EVER (and have swallowed a load of s**t from these tabloids),' she said, adding that what the tabloid did, 'is disgusting.'

'I have always been a huge supporter of female entrepreneurs... #girlboss is my motto,' El Moussa added.

'Nothing but respect for @joannagaines,' she concluded, along with the heart emoji and #goodvibesonly hashtag.

Good vibes only: The Instagram post also included a photo from the original tabloid report, which featured an 'insider' who claimed that, 'Christina can't help feeling out-shined by Joanna, especially now that she's getting her own network'

No feud: News of this supposed feud came after it was announced that Joanna Gaines and her husband Chip Gaines (pictured in October) are launching their own network with Discovery, which owns HGTV

El Moussa tagged Gaines in her Instagram post, but Gaines has not yet responded publicly to El Moussa's post.

The Instagram post also included a photo from the original tabloid report, which featured an 'insider' who claimed that, 'Christina can't help feeling out-shined by Joanna, especially now that she's getting her own network.'

Christina still hosts Flip or Flop with her ex-husband Tarek El Moussa, and also will be going solo with her new spin-off Christina on the Coast.

Christina and Tarek married in 2009, and have two kids together, eight year old daughter Taylor and three year old son Brayden.

The couple split in 2017 citing irreconcilable differences, following a 2016 incident where Tarek fled their home with a gun, and finalized their divorce in January this year.

Christina has been dating British TV presenter Ant Anstead since November 2017.

====== 259 ========

KATE MIDDLETON'S VERY SLOANE-Y NEW HAIR ACCESSORY IS ACTUALLY BANG ON TREND

Her late mother-in-law was queen of the so-called Sloane Rangers who ruled Chelsea in the 80s - often sporting over the top hair accessories.

But according to style experts the new velvet hair bow Kate wore to visit UCL on Wednesday wasn't a retro nod to Princess Diana, but rather an unusually fashion forward touch from the Duchess.

Kate, 36, recycled a burgundy skirt suit by the French label Paule Ka to visit the university's neuroscience unit on Wednesday, and wore her hair tied back in a low ponytail, secured with a black velvet ribbon.

Celebrity stylist Rochelle White told FEMAIL the accessory was a 'welcome surprise' from the royal, pointing out that the once 'old school and uncool' bow is now a must-have, having sprung up all over the runways in recent seasons.

It's already migrated from the catwalk to stylish stars like Sienna Miller and Margot Robbie, both of whom have accessorised with velvet bows on the red carpet in recent months.

According to celebrity stylist Rochelle White, the hair bow was a fashion forward touch from the Duchess of Cambridge, seen on her visit to University College London on Wednesday

New look: The Duchess of Cambridge had her hair tied back in a low ponytail secured with a new accessory - a plush velvet bow

Kate may have taken inspiration from one of her favourite designers, Emilia Wickstead, who sent models down the runway with giant bows in their ponytails at her SS19 show.

The Duchess dressed up her wavy ponytail with a chic black velvet bow - a trend we've seen on the catwalks this year.



'Hair accessories are a big thing and have a seen more on various catwalks this year, from bows, ribbons and clips all being on trend,' said celebrity stylist Rochelle White.

'Kate wearing the velvet bow is something that is a welcome surprise. This colour is very popular this time of year and so is the material. I think Kate is carrying it off well and it is a subtle change to her usual style.

'Dressing up the hair is the new thing to do, playing a big part into fashion looks.

Red carpet ready: Sienna Miller, 36, wore a black ribbon in her hair, similar to Kate's at the Golden Globes in Los Angeles

Actress Margot Robbie, 28, smartened up her bun with a velvet ribbon for this year's Critics' Choice Awards in Los Angeles

The original Sloane Ranger set - led by Princess Diana and the Duchess of York (seen on the Isle of Wight in 1986) in the Eighties, favoured over the top hair accessories

Designer Emilia Wickstead featured double bow ponytails on the Spring Summer catwalks during London Fashion Week in September. Kate has often worn one of the designers ensembles.

Rochelle added 'The old and uncool hair accessory is now a must have. Various brands such as Gucci, Farfetched and Tom Ford have launched their own ranges.

'They have brought this to catwalks and even Victoria Secret models have been seen rocking the look.'

Emilia Wickstead, of of the Duchess' favourite designers, showcased models wearing double bows during her Spring Summer 2019 show

The Duchess of Cambridge, seen earlier this month on a visit to the BBC with Prince William wearing Emilia Wickstead. A favourite of the royal's; Emilia sent models down her SS19 runway wearing giant velvet hair bows

Models walk the Tory Burch catwalk during New York Fashion week sporting ponytails with giant black bows

Duchess Kate, 36, dressed up her ponytail with a velvet bow accessory. She teamed it with a burgundy double breasted blazer and skirt by French label Paule Ka as she visited University College London on Wednesday

====== 260 ========

CHRISSY TEIGEN BURNS SWEET POTATO PIE TO A CRISP WHILE SHARING THANKSGIVING PREP ON INSTAGRAM

She is the author of not one but two best selling cookbooks.

But even Chrissy Teigen messes up in the kitchen, as her charcoal sweet potato pie attested on Wednesday.

The 32-year-old was sharing her delicious-looking Thanksgiving prep on Instagram, when one dish overstayed its welcome in the oven.

Whoops! Best-selling cookbook author Chrissy Teigen burned her sweet potato pie to a crisp while sharing Thanksgiving prep on Instagram

Charcoal: 'In case you are wondering why I didn’t put my finished pie on my instastory,' she admitted, posting a snap of the blackened ruin

Crunchy: The model's celeb friends were quick to rally round her on social media

'In case you are wondering why I didn’t put my finished pie on my instastory,' she admitted, posting a snap of the blackened ruin.

The model's celeb friends were quick to rally round her on social media, and Comments By Celebs captured the fun feedback.

Kris Jenner declared it 'Oh so crunchy... i love crunchy,' while Real Housewife Kyle Richards conceded: 'My yams with marshmallows every damn time.'

Actress Kat Dennings insisted 'Looks fine,' while fellow model Tess Holliday claimed: 'I ain't mad at it.'

Bolstered by the support, Chrissy bravely made a second attempt with a fresh pie, captioning a subsequent pic: 'trying again'.

If at first you don't succeed: After the first effort (L) went awry, Chrissy bravely tried again

The Lip Sync Battle color commentator had been sharing a sneak peek of her elaborate Thanksgiving feast preparations with her captive, combined 31.7M Twitter/Instagram following.

The Cravings author - turning 33 next week - cooked gravy with stock and turkey wings, asking: 'Anyone in the LA area need gravy?'

The half-Thai beauty dramatically discovered her live-in mother Vilailuck had 'stolen' turkey from the pot to snack on it while cuddled beneath a blanket on the couch.

The Cravings author - turning 33 next week - cooked gravy with stock and turkey wings, asking: 'Anyone in the LA area need gravy?'

'Something is missing!' The half-Thai beauty discovered her live-in mother Vilailuck had 'stolen' turkey from the pot to snack on it while cuddled beneath a blanket on the couch

Chrissy shared clips of herself perfecting two scrumptious-looking pumpkin pies from scratch.

Teigen is just as well known for her delicious recipes from her two published cookbooks as she is for her wisecracks on Twitter.

The BECCA Cosmetics collaborator also Insta-storied a cute clip of her two-year-old daughter Luna Simone loading up her mug of hot chocolate with marshmallows and whipped cream.

The Hot Ones champ and her husband John Legend teamed up for A Legendary Christmas special - airing November 28 on NBC - which also features Luna and their six-month-old son Miles Theodore.

Cozy cooking session: Chrissy had shared clips of herself perfecting the two scrumptious-looking sweet potato from scratch

'Not the whole bowl, just one!' The BECCA Cosmetics collaborator also Insta-storied a cute clip of her two-year-old daughter Luna Simone loading up her mug of hot chocolate with marshmallows and whipped cream

'It was so much fun to shoot!' Chrissy gushed on Tuesday's episode of The Ellen DeGeneres Show.

'It's like a throwback to those favorite episodes of those old shows, when they had a very special episode, a holiday episode.'

Celebrity guests include Stevie Wonder, Darren Criss, Jane Lynch, Awkwafina, Zach Galifianakis, Derek Hough, Kelly Clarkson, Kim Kardashian West, and The Fab Five From Queer Eye.

Teigen and the 39-year-old EGOT champ - who've been married for five years - originally met on the 2007 set of his Stereo music video.

Airing November 28 on NBC! The Hot Ones champ and her husband John Legend teamed up for A Legendary Christmas special, which also features Luna and their six-month-old son Miles Theodore (pictured November 4)

Chrissy said on Tuesday's Ellen Show: 'It was so much fun to shoot! It's like a throwback to those favorite episodes of those old shows, when they had a very special episode, a holiday episode'

Atop the Build-A-Bear float! The 39-year-old EGOT champ will perform his rendition of 'Merry Little Christmas' during Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, which airs Thursday on NBC

Phew! The cooking session with Ellen went a little more smoothly

But first, the R&B belter will perform his rendition of 'Merry Little Christmas' atop the Build-A-Bear float during Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, which airs Thursday morning on NBC.

Meanwhile in Queens, 10-time Grammy-nominated rapper Nicki Minaj and her gospel singing mother Carol Maraj delivered a truckload of turkey to Rockaway Blvd. and 147 St.

Emmy-winning choreographer Julianne Hough and her husband - former NHL centre Brooks Laich - helped prep Thanksgiving at the Poole home where they stuffed 'grateful notes' inside crescent rolls.

The Honest Company boss Jessica Alba unveiled her family Christmas portrait featuring husband Cash Warren and their daughters Honor, 10; and Haven, 7; as well as son Hayes, 10 months.

'Mommy & I had a great time!' Meanwhile in Queens, 10-time Grammy-nominated rapper Nicki Minaj and her gospel singing mother Carol Maraj delivered a truckload of turkey to Rockaway Blvd. and 147 St.

Fortune cookie twist! Emmy-winning choreographer Julianne Hough and her husband - former NHL centre Brooks Laich - helped prep Thanksgiving at the Poole home where they stuffed 'grateful notes' inside crescent rolls

'Happy holidays!' The Honest Company boss Jessica Alba unveiled her family Christmas portrait featuring husband Cash Warren and their three children

'#ThatMomLife': The 37-year-old Golden Globe nominee also Insta-storied her Thanksgiving manicure while crafting felt Advent calendars for the upcoming merry holiday

The 37-year-old Golden Globe nominee also Insta-storied her Thanksgiving manicure while crafting felt Advent calendars for the upcoming merry holiday.

Elsewhere, Oscar nominee Kate Hudson shared clips of her blended family's 'turkey for 30' table settings and prep for green bean casserole and sweet potato soufflé.

Wednesday also marked the 73rd birthday of the 39-year-old Fabletics founder's famous mother, Oscar winner Goldie Hawn.

'Set up time!' Elsewhere, Oscar nominee Kate Hudson shared clips of her blended family's 'turkey for 30' table settings and prep for green bean casserole and sweet potato soufflé

'Fearless leader, my number one, my heart, my love!' Wednesday also marked the 73rd birthday of the 39-year-old Fabletics founder's famous mother, Oscar winner Goldie Hawn (R)

'The bean helping me in the kitchen!' Younger star Hilary Duff prepped her orange peel-infused 'brine for the birdy' while cradling 28-day-old daughter Banks with babydaddy Matthew Koma

'Thanksgiving, but make it fashion!' Golden Globe nominee Emmy Rossum couldn't 'wait to eat' her gluten-free, Paleo-friendly, sugar-free confection 'with my family'

Grateful: Three-time Grammy winner Gwen Stefani and her family painted what they were thankful for on a pumpkin while celebrating in beau Blake Shelton's Oklahoma hometown

Younger star Hilary Duff prepped her orange peel-infused 'brine for the birdy' while cradling her 28-day-old daughter Banks Violet with babydaddy Matthew Koma.

Golden Globe nominee Emmy Rossum couldn't 'wait to eat' her Goodies Against The Grain gluten-free, Paleo-friendly, sugar-free confection 'with my family.'

Three-time Grammy winner Gwen Stefani and her family painted what they were thankful for on a pumpkin while celebrating the holiday in beau Blake Shelton's Oklahoma hometown.

====== 261 ========

LUKE EVANS REVEALS HE ATE 'A LOT OF GOOD PASTA' WITH MURDER MYSTERY CO-STAR JENNIFER ANISTON

He spent his summer in Portofino shooting scenes for the new Netflix comedy Murder Mystery.

And Luke Evans revealed on Thursday's Lorraine that he spent the time eating 'a lot of good pasta' with his co-stars Jennifer Aniston and Adam Sandler in the idyllic Italy location.

The Beauty and the Beast actor, 39, admitted that he had the 'best summer ever' as he filmed Murder Mystery with the Friends actress, 49, and Big Daddy actor, 52.

Fun times: Luke Evans revealed on Thursday's Lorraine that he spent the time eating 'a lot of good pasta' with his co-stars Jennifer Aniston and Adam Sandler in the idyllic Italy location

He said: 'I was in Italy last summer, I basically had the best summer ever because I did a movie with Adam Sandler and Jennifer Aniston who are awesome.

'We had the most glamorous locations I have ever worked on. It was amazing!'

Lorraine went on to ask if the stars 'guzzled' a lot of delicious pasta during their summer in Italy.

Idyllic summer: The Beauty and the Beast actor, 39, admitted that he had the 'best summer ever' as he filmed Murder Mystery with the Friends actress, 49 (pictured), and Big Daddy actor, 52

Glamorous: He said: 'I was in Italy last summer, I basically had the best summer ever because I did a movie with Adam Sandler and Jennifer Aniston who are awesome.'

To which Luke revealed: 'We did. We had many evenings in our very beautiful hotel in Portofino where we ate a lot of good pasta. I didn't want it to end!'

In Murder Mystery, Jennifer and Adam play a New York-based couple who are eyed in the killing of an older billionaire in Europe.

James Vanderbilt wrote the script, and Kyle Newacheck of Workaholics fame directed, according to Variety.

Netflix stardom: In Murder Mystery, Jennifer and Adam (pictured) play a New York-based couple who are eyed in the killing of an older billionaire in Europe

Talented: James Vanderbilt wrote the script, and Kyle Newacheck of Workaholics fame directed, according to Variety

Jennifer and Adam previously appeared in the 2011 romantic comedy Just Go With It, this will be the actress' first movie with Netflix.

As well as Luke joining the duo in the star-studded cast, David Walliams and Gemma Arterton also have cameos in the film.

There is no set release date for Murder Mystery just yet, but it is expected to be released at some point in 2019.

====== 262 ========

PARIS HILTON'S FORMER FIANCE CHRIS ZYLKA HOPED TO GET BACK $2M ENGAGEMENT RING HE DIDN'T PAY FOR

There continues to be fallout amid the split between Paris Hilton and her fiance, Chris Zylka.

The 33-year-old model/actor, according to Page Six had hoped to retrieve the $2 million engagement ring he presented the 37-year-old socialite in his proposal to her earlier this year on the slopes in Aspen, Colorado.

Complicating the matter is that Zylka apparently didn't spend any money on the 20-carat ring, insiders told Page Six.

Scroll below for video

No returns: Paris Hilton's former fiance Chris Zylka, 33, had hoped to retrieve the $2 million engagement ring he presented the 37-year-old socialite with, but insiders say didn't pay for it. The two were snapped in Mexico last year

The actor, who's been seen on The Leftovers and The Amazing Spider-Man, received the sparkler free of charge from Michael Greene, a jeweler-to-the-stars who's close with the Stars Are Blind songstress, sources told the outlet.

The 5ft8 socialite is going to keep the expensive piece of jewelry, sources told the outlet, adding, 'The ring is her's.'

The outlet reported that Zylka has a net worth of around $4 million, a fraction of the $300 million the hotel heiress's empire is estimated to be valued at.

Zylka had raised the funds to pay for the ring by selling 'very valuable and lucrative' art pieces he'd created, a spokesperson for the former couple told the outlet earlier this year.

Selfie queen: The wealthy heiress was snapped earlier this month in Mexico City

Magic moment: Chris proposed to Paris earlier this year on the slopes in Aspen, Colorado

'He has very high-end clients from all over the world who continuously seek out his work,' the rep said.

In the wake of the news this week, an insider told the outlet that Hilton had not 'been happy in a while' in the relationship with Zylka, adding that 'she always paid for everything.

'Most of her friends thought she would realize at some point that she was too good for him. They came from two different worlds.'

Zylka's rep told Page Six in response to their report that their 'info on the ring [was] wrong,' adding, 'Chris has his own money. Do your homework.'

====== 263 ========

DEMI LOVATO UNFOLLOWS SELENA GOMEZ AND NICK JONAS ON INSTAGRAM

Demi Lovato has unfollowed several old friends on Instagram as she continues to make her well-being a priority.

A source claims the Confident hitmaker has unfollowed the likes of Selena Gomez, Nick Jonas and Iggy Azalea because she wants to stay away from 'difficult relationships'.

'She wants to focus on herself and avoid any difficult relationships,' a source told Entertainment Tonight.

Unfollowed: Demi Lovato has unfollowed good friends on Instagram as she continues to make her well-being a priority

'She needs to surround herself with those that support her goals and to stay away from any negativity. Demi has come a very long way. She's grown emotionally and matured a great deal through this process.

'She realises there is no quick fix and has accepted the fact she needs to take this one day at a time. She still has a sober companion and she has built a very strong support group.'

Demi has 'truly turned her life around' following her overdose in July.

An insider shared with ET Online: 'Demi is happy and healthy has done a complete 180 since she overdosed. Her 90 days in rehab have truly turned her life around. She wants to remain out of rehab. She has a sober coach and a complete support system.'

Not on Instagram: Nick Jonas was among one of several stars Lovato has recently unfollowed (pictured February 2017)

The insider added Demi has embraced a whole new lifestyle, and is 'surrounding' herself with people from her program.

'She is avoiding those in her social circle that supported her precarious lifestyle. Demi deserves a partner who will help her continue to live a clean life and her family and friends feel she is choosing more appropriate friends.'

Demi has been solely focused on her sobriety after being hospitalized in July after overdosing in her Los Angeles home.

Old pals: The singer has also stopped following Selena Gomez (pictured October 2017)

The actress has since completed a three-month stint in rehab.

In her first Instagram post since completing her rehab stint, the pop star showed herself voting in the US midterm elections.

She captioned the post: 'I am so grateful to be home in time to vote! One vote can make a difference, so make sure your voice is heard!'

====== 264 ========

AARON RODGERS' BROTHER JORDAN REIGNITES FAMILY FEUD ON TWITTER

Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers has mysteriously been estranged from his family for several years, and while he refuses to discuss the matter publicly, brother Jordan Rodgers referenced the feud on Twitter Wednesday.

In response to a video Aaron posted asking for donations to help those affected by the wildfires in Paradise, California, Jordan responded by shaming his older brother for failing to check on their mother, herself a California resident.

'PLEASE DONATE, SPREAD AWARENESS & SEND LOVE,' Jordan tweeted. 'But when your own Mom is home alone during the fires, car packed ready to evacuate, & you miss the fundamental first step of compassion; calling your parents to make sure they are safe … Everything else just feels like an act.'

Despite Jordan's criticism, Aaron is donating $1 million to the wildfire victims.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

In response to a video Aaron Rodgers (left) posted asking for donations to help those affected by the wildfires in Paradise, California, Jordan (right) responded by shaming his older brother for failing to check on their mother, herself a California resident

Although brother Jordan objects, Aaron Rodgers is donating $1 million to wildfire charities

Darla Rodgers (far left) was supposedly home alone during the wildfires, according to Aaron's brother Jordan (far right)

'In Northern California, where I was born and raised, the city of Paradise burned to the ground, and many of the residents who got out are now displaced to my hometown of Chico and across the north state,' Rodgers said in the video. 'I personally reached out to my friends and the mayor of Chico to find out how to be of the most help. And raising money for both immediate needs and the long-term recovery is what is needed most right now.'

Rodgers once starred at California-Berkley before going on to win a title as a member of the Packers. In fact, the entire family was on hand after the Super Bowl XLV win in early 2011, but things turned sour after that.

It's not known what the dispute is about, but the problems within the Rodgers family first came to light in 2016, when Jordan (now an ESPN college football analyst) was a contestant on the bachelor, and let it be known that the family no longer speaks to Aaron.

'Fame can change things,' father Ed Rodgers told The New York Times in 2017.

Aaron Rodgers, meanwhile, told reporters last year that he does not 'think it's appropriate talking about family stuff publicly.'

Rodgers confirmed to the Times that a Bleacher Report article claiming Aaron had not spoken to the family since 2014 was accurate.

Aaron Rodgers has reportedly not spoken with mother Darla (third from the left) in several years. As father Ed (far right) told the New York Times, 'fame can change things'

Rodgers' personal life is frequently the subject of gossip and celebrity media following his highly publicized breakup from actress Olivia Munn in 2017. The 34-year-old Rodgers is now in a relationship with NASCAR driver Danica Patrick. Jordan Rodgers (right with girlfriend Jojo Fletcher) is now a college football analyst for ESPN, but previously played for several NFL franchises, as well as the CFL's BC Lions. Prior to that, he played collegiality at Vanderbilt

An Us Weekly article in June of 2017 claimed that 'Aaron still hasn't been in contact with his family' and his 'mom, Darla, has reached out to him multiple times in the last few months, but hasn't heard back from him.'

Rodgers' personal life is frequently the subject of gossip and celebrity media following his highly publicized breakup from actress Olivia Munn in 2017. The 34-year-old Rodgers is now in a relationship with NASCAR driver Danica Patrick.

In 14 seasons, Aaron Rodgers has earned over $204 million in salary, not including endorsement deals like the one he has with State Farm Auto Insurance. If he continues to play throughout the remainder of his contract, he will earn another $100 million through the 2023 season, when he will be 39.

Jordan Rodgers is now a college football analyst for ESPN, but previously played for several NFL franchises, as well as the CFL's BC Lions. Prior to that, he played collegiality at Vanderbilt.

====== 265 ========

OLIVIA MUNN CALLS OUT FAN-GIRLING PILOT FOR FAILING TO ASK FOR A PHOTO

Olivia Munn has hilariously called out a pilot, after learning he failed to ask her for a photo at his wife's request.

Taking to Instagram on Thursday, the actress, 38, shared screenshots of a text exchange between the married couple fan-girling over her being onboard the pilot's flight.

He had told his wife he'd seen Olivia, but couldn't quite muster up the courage to ask her for a picture together, prompting the X-Men: Apocalypse star to reach out to the pair on social media.

Amusing: Olivia Munn has hilariously called out a pilot, after learning he failed to ask her for a photo at his wife's request

In the screenshots, the pilot can be seen telling his wife that Olivia is on his flight, with his wife then urging him to take a snap with the star or she wouldn't believe that he had seen Olivia.

Her husband wasn't so keen on tracking down the actress for a snap, telling his wife he 'didn't know what to say' to Olivia, as he sent her a selfie of him looking nervous at the thought of approaching the famous face.

His wife's reply read: 'Just say 'hey my wife is a big fan' that way you don't look like a creep lol,' before adding: 'Invite her to see the cockpit.'

Hilarious: The actress, 38, shared screenshots of a text exchange between the married couple fan-girling over her being onboard the pilot's flight

Missed his chance: The pilot was later publicly called out by Olivia as she shared the text exchange, penning across it: 'Adam!! You never asked for a pic, but I definitely would've taken one with you!'

If only! It then came to light that the pilot was so nervous to approach Olivia as she is his 'free pass' celebrity crush

The pilot assured his wife that he would try his best, but was later publicly called out by Olivia as she shared the text exchange, penning across it: 'Adam!! You never asked for a pic, but I definitely would've taken one with you! Thanks for the safe flight. Happy Thanksgiving.'

Olivia shared another screenshot of a tweet the wife had posted sharing her messages with her husband with The Ellen DeGeneres Show's Twitter account.

She revealed her husband had freaked out at seeing Olivia as she was his 'free pass celebrity crush'.

The wife tagged Olivia into the post and wrote: 'My pilot husband's "free pass" celebrity crush was on his flight last night and he froze,' adding a slew of crying emojis.

Olivia responded: 'Omg this is the cutest.'

Vocal: The amusing exchange comes after Olivia has been using her platform to raise awareness for the #MeToo movement

The amusing exchange comes after Olivia has been using her platform to raise awareness for the #MeToo movement - recently declaring that she will continue to speak up, even if it hurts her career.

She made the statement in an interview for Cosmopolitan's December issue, as she called for a change in Hollywood to abolish the 'unfair stigma' surrounding women.

It comes after she fought to have her former co-star Steven Wilder Striegel - a registered sex offender - removed from new movie The Predator and bravely spoke out about disgraced director Brett Ratner, accusing him of sexual harassment.

The #MeToo movement has garnered much attention since last year, after famed Hollywood director Harvey Weinstein was faced with multiple allegations of sexual misconduct.

Determined: She declared she will continue to speak up, even if it hurts her career - as she called for a change in Hollywood to abolish the 'unfair stigma' surrounding women

Many of Hollywood's leading ladies have come forward, recalling their own experience with sexual harassment and sexual assault in the workplace, as part of the wide-spread campaign across social media to raise awareness.

And having her say, Olivia has been vocal in her crusade to speak out against the unequal power at play in the movie industry. She told the publication: 'I'm not for sale... if speaking up costs me my career, I don't want it anyway.'

Olivia fought to have actor Striegel removed from movie The Predator after discovering he was a registered sex offender. Striegel spent six months in prison in 2010 after pleading guilty to risk of injury to a child and enticing a minor by computer.

He was accused of attempting to lure a 14-year-old girl into a sexual relationship.

Striegel's scenes from The Predator were removed, following pressure from Munn on Warner Bros bosses, and she claimed following the decision, director Shane Black - who had been a friend of Striegel - 'has not spoken to her since'.

The victim of the actor has since publicly thanked Olivia for 'standing up for her'.

She tweeted: 'I am also eternally grateful for Olivia Munn’s action. She spoke up for me. She took a stance for me. In turn she stood for all who have suffered like I have.

'To be acknowledged by a stranger, on a public platform about this issue is incredibly empowering. The positive feedback from social media towards Olivia Munn is uplifting and feels incredibly supportive for me personally.

'I have no shame for what was done to me. I am not the one who needs to carry that shame. My name is Paige Carnes, former Jane Doe. I hope anyone who has suffered like I have regains their voice and their humanity.'

Olivia replied telling the girl she had been an 'inspiration' and thanked her for her 'courage' and 'fearlessness'.

====== 266 ========

LEBRON JAMES GETS HERO'S WELCOME IN CLEVELAND FACING OFF AGAINST FORMER TEAM WITH LOS ANGELES LAKERS

LeBron James was honored by the Cleveland Cavaliers basketball organization and his hometown crowd on Wednesday, as he returned to the Q to face off against his former team for the first time as a Los Angeles Laker.

James was greeted by a standing ovation from the crowd inside the Quicken Loans Arena, warm words from his former coach and tribute video that played over the humongatron.

'A hero has come back,' Cavs coach Larry Drew said before tip-off.

In the end, the Cavs lost to the Lakers by a score of 109-105, but arguably played their best game of the season against their former leader.

It was a much different welcome than James received when he came back to play against the Cavs with the Miami Heat in December of 2010.

This time, fans jumped to their feet as James came out onto the court, even though he wasn't wearing wine and gold.

'From the time we landed, it just felt a different way,' James said.

'I'm a different person. We're all different from eight years ago, both good and bad. But more importantly, this experience has been great.

'So it's all about growth and we all have grown from that moment eight years ago. So I kind of leave the past in the past and always focus on the present and see what happens in the future.'

Former Cleveland Cavalier LeBron James was given a hero's welcome as he returned to Quicken Loans Arena for the first time as a Los Angeles Laker on Wednesday, before beating his former team

It was a much different welcome than James received when he came back to play against the Cavs with the Miami Heat in December of 2010; James is shown kissing the 2016 NBA Championship trophy he helped win for the Cavs in a tribute video played before the game

'The kid from Akron has come home! The Cavaliers are NBA champions! The impossible dream has come true!' an announcer can be heard saying in the video, over footage of James kissing the trophy after the Finals win two years ago, with tears streaming down his face

But the Cavs weren't quite ready to leave everything in the past, and had prepared a video tribute to the King that played before the game began started on the Q's signature humongatron.

The video started with a montage of highlights from James' 11 seasons with the Cavs before moving into a thank you for leading the team to its 2016 NBC National Championship title.

'The kid from Akron has come home! The Cavaliers are NBA champions! The impossible dream has come true!' an announcer can be heard saying in the video, over footage of James kissing the trophy after the Finals win two years ago, with tears streaming down his face.

'From the time we landed, it just felt a different way,' James said, comparing this homecoming to his return from December 2010 with the Miami Heat

In the tribute video, James is shown during the parade after the 2016 NBA championship win

James is shown at 2016's parade with arms outstretched, shouting 'Cleveland, this is for you!'

James is then shown during the parade after the championship win in Cleveland, with arms outstretched, shouting, 'Cleveland, this is for you!'

The video then quickly turned away from the game at hand to celebrate the biggest benefits James has brought to the northeastern Ohio area.

A title screen read, 'Thank you for what you did on the court, but we all know it's bigger than basketball.'

The tribute video then quickly turned away from the game at hand to celebrate the biggest benefits James has brought to the northeastern Ohio area, with a title screen reading, 'Thank you for what you did on the court, but we all know it's bigger than basketball'

The next clips focused on the charity work James has done in the area, though the LeBron James Family Foundation and with the opening of the I Promise school earlier this year; James is shown with students at the school he helped fund in Cleveland

James is shown at the opening of the I Promise school in 2018, speaking to a crowd

The next clips focused on the charity work James has done in the area, though the LeBron James Family Foundation and with the opening of the I Promise school earlier this year.

The video ended with the simple phrase, 'Thank you LeBron,' and then King James came out to cheers from a crowd on its feet.

Fans held up signs reading, 'Thank you LeBron for 6-19-16,' and 'Re-united with the KING! #anniversarygoals #ballislife.'

The video ended with the simple phrase, 'Thank you LeBron,' and then King James came out to cheers from a crowd on its feet

Fans stood up and held up signs with one reading, 'Thank you LeBron for 6-19-16'

A couple of fans held a sign that read, 'Re-united with the KING! #anniversarygoals #ballislife'

One person in the crowd had fashioned his own James jersey out of a Cavs jersey and Lakers jersey sewn together to show his support for the all-star player

One person in the crowd had fashioned his own James jersey out of a Cavs jersey and Lakers jersey sewn together to show his support for the all-star player.

And then it was time for the game to start, with James being the last Lakers player introduced.

Arena announcer Sean Peebles said: 'A 6-foot-8 forward from St. Vincent-St. Mary High School, welcome home LeBron James!'

And then it was time for the game to start, with James being the last Lakers player introduced

By the end of the game, James proved he was still in top form, finishing with 32 points, 14 rebounds and seven assists

James came on the court with a wave to each corner of the arena, and a look to the sky.

By the end of the game, James proved he was still in top form, finishing with 32 points, 14 rebounds and seven assists.

Despite being down 99-91 in the fourth quarter, the Lakers pulled it out and went home winners.

Afterwards, James shared words with Cavaliers' power forward/center, #13 Tristan Thompson

Tristan Thompson (left, #13) scored 14 points and secured 15 rebounds for Cleveland

After the game, James shared words with Cavaliers' power forward and center, #13 Tristan Thompson.

Tristan Thompson scored 14 points and secured 15 rebounds for Cleveland.

He was topped by teammate point guard and shooting guard #8 Jordan Clarkson, who put up 20 points for the Cavs.

====== 267 ========

AMERICA'S GOT TALENT STAR AND PLANE CRASH VICTIM UNDERGOES LIFE-CHANGING SURGERY

Moving forward: Kechi Okwuchi has already defied the odds to survive a plane crash and make it to the finals of America's Got Talent, wowing the nation with her voice. But off stage she's still been battling pain in her neck, arms and face. Now reconstructive surgeons are helping her move ahead. Pictured: Kechi after her first set of surgeries to make her cheeks symmetrical, allow her to straighten her arms, turn her neck, and close her left eye

A gifted singer and burns victim who captured the nation's hearts on America's Got Talent has undergone life-changing surgery.

Kechi Okwuchi, 29, from Nigeria, was just 16 when a plane flying her and 60 schoolmates from the capital Abuja to the southern city of Port Harcourt crashed at its destination.

Of the 109 passengers on Sosoliso Airlines Flight 1145, seven were recovered from the wreckage but only two survived. Kechi was one of them, suffering third-degree burns on 65 percent of her body.

She underwent more than 100 surgeries to restore her speech, movement, sight, and independence.

Music got her through - and pushed her into the limelight last year, when she stunned the audience and judges of America's Got Talent with a rendition of Ed Sheeran's Thinking Out Loud.

But behind the camera, Kechi still endured excruciating pain - both physical and psychological. One eye has never closed completely since the crash, one ear doesn't have a lobe, she can't straighten her arms fully. Her neck is the thing that affects her the most: she cannot fully turn her head to the right, and the tightness restricts how she can react, perform and move day-to-day.

Now, DailyMail.com can exclusively reveal that a year after Kechi made it to the final of AGT 2017, the TV show Extra has connected her with world-class surgeons to finally help her through the lingering injuries.

'I'm just so grateful,' Kechi says on the show, adding: 'Amazing things have happened in my life.'

KECHI'S JOURNEY: HOW SHE FOUGHT BACK FROM THE HOSPITAL BED TO THE GLOBAL STAGE

The last thing Kechi can remember from the crash on 22 October, 2005, is a scratchy metal sound as they headed towards the ground.

Then she blacked out.

Kechi was airlifted to Johannesburg, South Africa, where doctors stabilized her.

Two years later, her case was accepted by doctors at Shriners Hospitals for Children in Galveston, Texas.

In total, she underwent nearly 100 surgeries.

She'd been singing since she was a little girl, but music took on new meaning during her recovery, as her mother would play her favorite songs while she was in a coma.

Kechi was just 16 when a plane flying her and 60 schoolmates from the capital Abuja to the southern city of Port Harcourt crashed at its destination. She underwent more than 100 surgeries to restore her speech, movement, and sight. Pictured: Kechi before the crash (left) and 12 years after (right) performing on America's Got Talent

She'd been singing since she was a little girl, but music took on new meaning during her recovery, as her mother (pictured) would play her favorite songs while she was in a coma

In 2015, Kechi graduated from the University of Saint Thomas in Texas, where she majored in economics, and inspired the hall as student speaker.

She received such a powerful reaction that she was invited to give a Ted Talk in London, that year, encouraging girls to be confident in themselves.

Then, she decided to try to realize her dream to be a singer.

The audience was left weeping on their feet during Kechi's first performance, which the judges described as both delicate and powerful. She made it to the finale singing Conqueror by Estelle, to which Simon Cowell reacted: 'That wasn't a song, that was an anthem.'

LIFE-CHANGING SURGERY: FIXING INJURIES THAT HAVE HAMPERED KECHI'S DAILY LIFE FOR YEARS

Extra, which screens today in a special Thanksgiving episode, brought together a team of doctors, including Beverly Hills facial, plastic and reconstructive surgeon Dr Andrew Frankel.

'I felt that someone like that deserves an opportunity to have a good feeling about herself,' Dr Frankel said.

Working with his associate Dr Demetre Arnaoutkis, Dr Frankel first restored basic function in Kechi's face and neck.

The first surgery took more than four hours.

Extra, which screens today in a special Thanksgiving episode, brought together a team of doctors, including Beverly Hills facial, plastic and reconstructive surgeon Dr Andrew Frankel

Next, he fixed her eyelids so she could close her eyes, and made her cheeks symmetrical.

Most importantly for Kechi, she can now turn her neck - which she demonstrates gleefully in a selfie video played in the episode (adding humbly that 'this may not seem important to anyone else').

For her arms, Kechi went to Dr Peter Grossman at the Grossman Burn Center in West Hills, California.

Most importantly for Kechi, she can now turn her neck to the right (pictured before surgery)

Using her arm was a struggle because she always felt pulling and tightness on stage

Working with his associate Dr Demetre Arnaoutkis, Dr Frankel (pictured) first restored basic function in Kechi's face and neck

'Using her arm, it's a struggle for her, because she always feels that pulling and that tightness,' Dr Grossman said

'We're going to release some of those tight areas to give her that range of motion that's greater than she has now.

'That's the game plan for the first set of operations for Kechi.'

It's a process that will take months, if not years.

But Kechi says she is already feeling a huge difference.

WHAT'S NEXT FOR KECHI: AGT THE CHAMPIONS

Kechi pictured after her first set of surgeries

Simon Cowell has asked Kechi back to compete in a select group of finalists from previous years for AGT: The Champions, which premieres on January 7 on NBC.

Kechi said she cannot believe how her life has turned around since that fateful day in 2005 when she narrowly survived.

Speaking at the end of the episode, she said she owes it all to Simon Cowell, who was the judge that took Kechi and propelled her to stardom.

In a selfie video she thanks Simon 'for everything that has happened in my life since I appeared on your show America's Got Talent.'

'Because of the exposure that I got on that platform,' she says, 'amazing things have happened in my life.'

'So I just want to tell you: thank you so much for everything you do for people like me, and I'm just so grateful that Extra saw me through your show and did all this for me as well.'

But Simon insists it should be the other way around.

'It's what she did for us, if I'm being honest with you,' Simon said.

'When you don't have contestants like that, you have no show.'

====== 268 ========

MICHAEL B JORDAN'S INTENSE FITNESS REGIME REVEALED

Tessa Thompson claims Michael B. Jordan got 'really angry' when he was hungry on the set of Creed II.

The 35-year-old actress insists it was understandable that her co-star got 'really irritable' during filming because he was pushing himself so hard to stay in shape to play boxer Adonis Creed.

She said: 'I'm sure a lot of people can relate to this, but he's really irritable when he hasn't eaten. He gets really angry. It's not just sort of like, "Okay, get him a sandwich."

Hangry man! Tessa Thompson says Michael B Jordan got 'really angry' when he was hungry on the set of Creed II; the two are seen at a screening on November 19

'I think it might have also been exacerbated by - when he's training, there's certain days where he wouldn't drink water all day and he was going through very intense training. So he was allowed some irritable days.'

But the 31-year-old actor also enjoyed 'cheat days' on occasions and Tessa was very impressed with the extent that he could 'gorge' himself on a variety of 'junk cuisine'.

She told Elle.com: 'When he's having a cheat day, he really goes in and it feels like being at a college dorm room, but a really nice one, where the kid has a lot of money, because he just has everything from Chinese food to pizza.

'Every kind of junk cuisine he'd want. He's in basketball shorts just gorging himself.

'But he only had a couple of those days, so he's allowed.'

It paid off: The actor had to stay in shape for his role as play boxer Adonis Creed in Creed II

Tessa plays Bianca, the wife of Michael's character and she was pleased her concerns that her character would be depicted as the 'dutiful' spouse were tackled head-on in the film by director Steven Caple Jr.

She said: 'I had some measure of hesitation when I knew that she was going to be pregnant, and some worry that she might end up being the dutiful wife.

'I expressed those concerns to Steven Caple Jr, our fantastic director, and those concerns made it into the movie - when she says to him, "I'm not gonna be this barefoot wife making you sandwiches." That was literally something I expressed to Mike and to Steven and they were like, "Let's put it in the movie."'

====== 269 ========

PRINCE CHARLES REVEALS FEARS OVER CLIMATE CHANGE

Businesses and individuals need to get better at recycling to 'sort out the mess' and save the planet for our grandchildren, the Prince of Wales has said.

Speaking at a Waste to Wealth summit in central London on Thursday, Charles said: 'We are the first generation to understand, in full and terrifying scientific detail, that we are destroying our world.

'And we are the last to be able to do something about it.'

The prince, who celebrated his 70th birthday last week, also spoke warmly of his 'much-loved grandchildren', and even gave a nod to Harry and Meghan's unborn baby.

Scroll down for video

Belated birthday! The Prince of Wales cuts into a cake marking his 70th as he attends a Waste-To-Wealth Summit at Southwark Integrated Waste Management Facility on Thursday

Sat next to Michael Gove, the Prince of Wales, President and Royal Founding Patron of Business in the Community (BITC), attends BITCs Waste-to-Wealth Summit on Thursday

The prince today spoke warmly of his 'much-loved grandchildren' (pictured with L-R Prince Louis, Prince George and Princess Charlotte) and even gave a nod to Harry and Meghan's unborn baby (the Duke and Duchess of Sussex are expecting their first child next spring)

He was speaking as major brands, including Co-operative Bank, Sky, Greggs, Heineken, Iceland and Toyota, signed up to a commitment to double the UK's resource productivity and reduce avoidable waste by 2030.

Addressing 200 leaders from companies, government and other organisations, Charles said: 'If we do not act our children and grandchildren will not be able to sort out the mess.

'So with three much-loved grandchildren and a new grandchild on the way - and some of you may be in the same situation - I do not want to miss that opportunity and I am sure you do not either.

'The small steps we've taken towards a circular economy need to become giant strides.

Birthday prince! Charles, who celebrated his 70th birthday last week, also spoke warmly of his 'much-loved grandchildren', and even gave a nod to Harry and Meghan's unborn baby as well as cutting a birthday cake during the Waste to Wealth summit on London today

Charles cuts his birthday cake at the summit where major brands, including Co-operative Bank, Sky, Greggs, Heineken, Iceland and Toyota, signed up to a commitment to double the UK's resource productivity and reduce avoidable waste by 2030

'It is clear recycling is part of the answer. We have become good at making things. Now we need to get much better at unmaking and remaking.

'This is a topic which has interested me for a large part of my three score years and 10.

'Many forward-thinking businesses are, I know, already putting principles of circular economy into practice.

'In the last five years, 12.5 million computers have ended up in British landfill sites. Worldwide, almost 150 million tonnes of clothing and shoes are sold every year.

Charles chats to business representatives at the summit today. BITC is convening the Waste-to-Wealth Summit at which 200 leaders from business, government, academia and civil society will come together to tackle one of the challenges of our time to commit to work collectively to create new solutions that will increase resource productivity and reduce avoidable waste

The Prince of Wales at the Waste to Wealth summit today. Charles's responsible business network Business in the Community, which is organising the summit being hosted by Veolia, is challenging companies to reduce waste to prevent dangerous climate change

'The majority ends up in landfills or incinerated, yet the infrastructure to collect, reuse and recycle already exists. One man's, or business's waste, can be another's raw materials.'

Charles's responsible business network Business in the Community, which is organising the summit being hosted by Veolia, is challenging companies to reduce waste or turn waste into wealth to prevent dangerous climate change.

Firms signing up to the Waste to Wealth commitment are pledging to set targets to improve productivity of resources, work to reduce avoidable waste, redesign the use of resources in products, services and operations, work collaboratively across organisations and report on progress.

====== 270 ========

GERARD BUTLER SHARES A MEAL WITH SCHOOL CHILDREN IN HAITI

Gerard Butler has traveled to Haiti to meet the children who benefit from the help of a Scottish charity just weeks after his home was destroyed by the California wildfires.

The actor, 49, visited the Caribbean country to highlight the work of Mary's Meals who feed school children from some of the poorest country's in the world.

In Haiti alone, Mary's Meals feeds more than 40,000 children every day, while also providing food for pupils in 17 countries across Africa, Asia, Latin America, Eastern Europe, and the Caribbean.

Scroll down for video

Gerard Butler has traveled to Haiti to meet the children who benefit from the help of a Scottish charity just weeks after his home was destroyed by the California wildfires

The charity feeds 1,361,586 children every school day and Butler shared one of these meals with a group of pupils from Ecole Communautaire Saint Michel de Morne Mouton in the town of Mirebalais in Haiti's Central Plateau.

Butler visited the school with Mary's Meals founder and global chief executive, Magnus MacFarlane-Barrow, to see the charity's work first hand.

He said: 'Mary's Meals is such a simple idea. I'm inspired by the genius behind it, and how it promotes responsibility in everybody.

The actor, 49, visited the Caribbean country to highlight the good work of Mary's Meals (pictured with the school children)

Butler spent time playing games with the children and getting to know them over lunch

'It's a very efficient way to essentially enhance the lives of so many in poor countries and it can be developed and extended so cheaply.

'I've been cheered up no end by these beautiful souls who, despite living in a country that has gone through so much hardship, have nothing but love to give.

'Communities are transformed by what Mary's Meals does to feed children in a place of education. I've seen it in action in Liberia and now Haiti.'

The pupils welcomed the actor to their school with a banner as they posed outside the school

Butler took videos and photographs during his visit with the children who benefit from Mary's Meals

In Haiti, local volunteers prepare a nutritious school meal of rice and beans with a tasty sauce made from vegetables and fish for 41,831 pupils every school day.

The charity began feeding 200 children in Malawi in 2002 and has since expanded around the world, beginning school feeding in Haiti in 2006.

Following the recent visit Mr MacFarlane-Barrow said: 'It's been a very moving few days meeting the children of Haiti whose lives are being changed by Mary's Meals.'

In Haiti, local volunteers prepare a nutritious school meal of rice and beans with a tasty sauce made from vegetables and fish for 41,831 pupils every school day

Butler was one of a host of celebrities who recently lost their homes in the fires which spread rapidly across California.

On November 10 he returned to his home to find it completely destroyed by the fast-moving Woolsey fire.

He shared an Instagram of the devastation as he stood in front of the remains of building and his burned out truck.

The 48-year-old captioned it: 'Returned to my house in Malibu after evacuating. Heartbreaking time across California.

'Inspired as ever by the courage, spirit and sacrifice of firefighters. Thank you @LosAngelesFireDepartment. '

And he ended with a heartfelt plea saying: 'If you can, support these brave men and women at SupportLAFD.org.

====== 271 ========

DIDDY MAY BE TOO DISTRAUGHT TO DELIVER EULOGY AT KIM PORTER'S FUNERAL

He tweeted that they were 'more than soulmates' when he paid tribute to the mother of three of his children following her shock death aged 47 last Thursday.

But TMZ reports that Sean 'Diddy' Combs, 49, might be too distraught to deliver a eulogy at Kim Porter's funeral on Saturday, despite hoping that he can.

A source told the site: 'Faith Evans will perform during the service in Columbus, GA.

Sad: Diddy may be too distraught to deliver a eulogy at Kim Porter's funeral following her death aged 47... after he wrote they were 'more than soulmates'

'Faith has a unique connection to Diddy. When Notorious B.I.G. died Diddy was a huge source of comfort to Faith... and now she's returning the gesture.'

Lots of stars will be turning up to pay tribute to Kim, who dated Diddy for 13 years on and off, including Mary J. Blige, although she is not thought to be performing.

The site adds: 'Kim's casket will arrive at the funeral in a horse-drawn carriage, because she adored horses.'

MailOnline has contacted a spokesperson for Diddy for comment.

Special: Faith Evans will perform during the service in Columbus (pictured earlier this month) - 'Faith has a unique connection to Diddy. When Notorious B.I.G. died Diddy was a huge source of comfort to Faith... and now she's returning the gesture'

Paying tribute: It's been reported that singer Mary J. Blige will be in attendance but she isn't thought to be performing

Porter and Diddy share three children together, twin girls Jessie James and D'Lila, 11, and 20-year-old son Christian.

The couple had been on and off for 13 years and following their split, the pair continued to co-parent their children and remained like family with one another.

Diddy first met Porter when he was an A&R executive in the early 1990s. It was love at first sight - at least for the future hitmaker.

Porter had been at the studio with her ex-boyfriend AI B. Sure when Diddy first laid eyes on her.

'I wasn't trying to holler at her or anything, but I was admiring her - her lips, her eyes, her mouth, her shape, her energy,' Diddy told Essence in 2006.

All the rapper could think was 'I wish I had a girl like that'.

Porter would go on to work as a receptionist at Uptown Records. By 1994, she and Diddy were a couple - and they were inseparable.

'We went out together, we ate together, we played together,' Porter told Essence during the same interview.

Honoring Kim: Diddy posted a new tribute video on social media showing off his late ex Kim Porter's skills at the piano on Wednesday

'He would want me at the office. I would want him at my shoots. Our bond was so tight.'

They split when Diddy cheated with J.Lo in 1999. The pair rekindled their relationship in 2003 but broke up for good in 2007.

Kim said in a statement at the time: 'In ending this relationship, I made a decision that was in the best interest of myself, Sean and our family.

'I look forward to moving on with my life and my career, and wish him prosperity, health and happiness in life and in love.

'We will remain friends and committed parents to our children,” Porter said in a statement at the time.'

Tragic: Kim Porter died suddenly at the age of 47 last Thursday after a bout of pneumonia. She is pictured here with Diddy in 2005

Diddy has been fervent in his tributes to his late ex.

The mogul took to Instagram, where he has been posting frequent heartfelt messages, to share another sweet moment with Kim playing the piano on Wednesday.

Kim died last Thursday after suffering from a bout of pneumonia but her exact cause of death is unknown.

The social video posted by the rapper showed Kim sitting in a tight red dress on the bench of a large black baby grand piano.

Her long dark hair was pulled into tight braided pigtails.

Kim played a beautiful tune on the piano before being interrupted by barking dogs.

'Wait for it,' he captioned the video.

'Yeah she could play the piano too:' The 49-year-old wrote in the caption about his late ex

He was referring to the moment when Kim, distracted by the barking, shoots the pups an epic look.

Diddy continued in the caption: '@ladykp miss you Bonnie ❤️ yeah she could play the piano too. She also loved to sing.'

The Bad Boy records owner's inner circle has been rocked by the tragic loss of Kim, with whom he shares three children.

The model's death certificate, which was obtained by The Blast, lists her cause of death as 'deferred.'

'Wait for it:' The video captured a candid moment of Kim flashing a hysterical dirty look at the dogs whose barking interrupted her performance

Her sudden passing will hopefully be explained by forthcoming results of a toxicology report.

Since news broke of Kim's death, Diddy has posted several tributes to Kim on social media.

After learning of her death, Diddy was spotted leaning on his other ex, Cassie Ventura, for solace.

Sharing: Over the last week, the Bad Boy Records honcho has shared personal images and videos showing Kim as a fun, youthful mom who loved life

On Monday, Diddy shared some videos from inside his Bel Air mansion of the intimate memorial for his ex and mother of three of his children.

Huge framed photos of the model lined the steps of the rap mogul's home, flanked by lit candles.

The Bad Boy head honcho spent much of Sunday and Monday posting photo after photo of he and Porter on social media.

Staying close: Despite their breakup many years ago, the former couple remained like family with one another

Co-parenting: Kim and Diddy share three children together and spent holidays together as a family

He seemed to find it cathartic to publish the tributes, which included a behind the scenes video from an old photo shoot with his ex back when she was pregnant.

In the caption for that emotional post, Diddy poured out his heart to his late love.

'For the last three days I’ve been trying to wake up out of this nightmare. But I haven’t,' Diddy wrote on Instagram.

Last respects: On Monday, Diddy shared some videos from inside his Bel Air mansion of the intimate memorial for his ex and mother of three of his children

'I don’t know what I’m going to do without you baby. I miss you so much. Today I’m going to pay tribute to you, I’m going to try and find the words to explain our unexplainable relationship,' he continued.

In another caption of a short video of Kim dancing at an event, the rapper expressed gratitude for all the support from friends and fans.

'She loved to dance,' he began. 'Thank you to everybody for your prayers and support. God is the greatest. He woke you up to see another day. Please don’t take it for granted. Let’s go people!!!'

====== 272 ========

KIM KARDASHIAN REVEALS HOW PRIVATE FIREFIGHTERS SAVED HER HOME WHEN FLAMES BURNED 'UP TO THE GATE'

Kanye West and his wife Kim Kardashian have donated $500,000 to the victims of the California fires after the blaze devastated their own community.

Appearing on the Ellen DeGeneres show on Wednesday, Kim made the announcement which included a $100,000 individual check for a firefighter whose own family home burnt down.

Explaining how she and Kanye hired private firefighters to protect their home, Kim made it clear that without them, the couple's $60million mansion would have burned down.

Keeping up appearances: Kim Kardashian reveals how private firefighters saved her $60m mansion when flames burned 'up to the gate'... and says her family still can't go home

'[The fires] got to our gate and then luckily we had firefighters right there that were helping us to get the fires out.'

However despite saving their home, the Wests cannot return because of smoke damage.

Kim said: 'We're still not in our home now because the smoke smell is too intense and we have these machines everywhere trying to help us blow out the smoke smell.'

Nearly lost: Fire damange can be seen in the park which borders Kim and Kanye's luxury mansion; the couple only saved the property with the help of private firefighters

Generous: The rapper, 41, who hired private firefighters to protect his multi-million pound mansion, is said to have wanted to help contribute towards rebuilding the community

Kim explained that she also tasked the private firefighters with protecting her neighbors homes in their exclusive gated community.

'Our house is right on the end of a big park so the whole park had caught fire and if our house went then every other house would go.

'They saved our home and saved our neighborhood, I made sure they controlled every house on the edge [of the park]. So it wasn't just my home.

'Once they go the whole neighborhood can go. '

Hero: Later in the show, Ellen and Kim welcomed firefighter Michael Williams and his wife Lisa from Oak Park, CA who lost their home in the Woolsey Fire

The mother-of-three said she hired the private firefighting team on the advice of a friend, who lost their own home in a previous blaze.

'We were fortunate... I know that not everyone has this luxury available to them. But we were able to get private firefighters.'

She then announced the donations, to which Adidas and Kanye's Yeezy brand also contributed.

They included a donation of $200,000 to California Fire Foundation and an additional $200,000 to California Community Foundation’s Wildfire Relief Fund.

'They saved our whole community, we're so grateful to them,' she said.

Set to appear on the Ellen show on Wednesday, Kim Kardashian will speak about the wildbush fire which came within feet of their home

Giving back: Kim tells host Ellen DeGeneres, the couple had a 'serious discussion' on how to help the community, with Kayne coming up with a plan of action

Showing support: The Golddigger hitmaker is said to have called up Adidas and his own Yeezy brand to build up donations, raising a staggering $500,000

Overhead photos of Kim and Kanye's home display a charred area surrounding the mansion, which was encroached by fire after authorities ordered a mandatory evacuation of the region.

Later in the show, Ellen and Kim welcomed firefighter Michael Williams and his wife Lisa from Oak Park, CA who lost their own home in the Woolsey Fire.

Michael and Lisa talked about their decision to stay home and their daring escape as the fires rapidly destroyed their neighborhood.

To help rebuild their lives, Kim presented the couple with a check for $100,000 thanks to the generosity of Kanye, along with Yeezy, and Adidas.



====== 273 ========

LEAH REMINI CLAIMS TOM CRUISE ADMINISTERED PUNISHMENT TO SCIENTOLOGISTS

Leah Remini has claimed that Tom Cruise personally administered punishment to a fellow Scientologist on the orders of the church's leader.

Remini, who was a Scientologist until 2013, has never been shy when it comes to spilling secrets of the controversial church and its most famous member.

And now the King of Queens star said she wants the world to know that Cruise is far more complicit when it comes to Scientology then people believe.

Leah Remini has claimed that Tom Cruise personally administered punishment to a fellow Scientologist on the orders of the church's leaders

'I think people think [Cruise] is an innocent victim in all of this,' Remini told the Daily Beast.

'Most Scientologists are, and I can actually say this about most Scientologists because I was in it, so I know my own heart.'

Remini explained that, while she was in the church, she was told 'not to look at certain things' that could be negative towards Scientology.

'The quote that they used would be "don't forward an enemy line,"' she revealed. 'There are even Facebook posts from Scientologists saying, "Don't forward an enemy line. Don't click on anything."'

'So I know that Scientologists willfully don't look at these things because the church is telling them that these are 'enemy lines' and you don't want to look at anything apostates have to say.'

'Where Tom is concerned, that is very different,' she added. 'He is very aware of the abuses that go on in Scientology. He's been part of it.'

Cruise is best friends with current Scientology leader David Miscavige.

Remini claims their friendship has given Cruise access to Scientology's 'internal operations' including their 'penchant for corporal punishment'.

The King of Queens star said she wants the world to know that Cruise is far more complicit when it comes to Scientology then people believe. They are pictured here together in 2005, eight years before Remini left the church

'Scientologists are told that Tom Cruise is saving the world single-handedly, so he is considered a deity within Scientology,' said Remini, who revealed that staff members even call him 'Mister Cruise'.

'He is second to David Miscagie - the savior of the free world,' she added. 'He's privy to the punishments that David Miscavige doles out.'

The actress claims one senior Scientology executive heard Miscavige use Cruise's name as he threatened to punish staff at Gold Base, the church's confidential and heavily guarded international headquarters.

'David Miscavige constantly threatened the staff at Gold base with bringing Tom Cruise to Gold Base and kicking their f*****g a***s,' she said.

Remini claims that another Scientologist official also told her that Cruise followed Miscavige's orders and personally administered punishment on a high-ranking church member.

'He is not in the same category as the average Scientologist,' she said.

Tom De Vocht, a former member of Scientology's internal police, revealed that Miscavige and Cruise are 'two peas in a pod'.

'They're very similar characters - both rather absorbed by themselves, and intensely so,' De Vocht said.

'You don't want to look at 'em wrong, say anything wrong, and you definitely don't want to better them in any way. You had to be very careful around them.'

Remini claims that another Scientologist official also told her that Cruise followed leader David Miscavige's orders and personally administered punishment on a high-ranking church member. She and Cruise are pictured here together in 2004

The actress claims one senior Scientology executive heard Miscavige (pictured) use Cruise's name as he threatened to punish staff at Gold Base, the church's confidential and heavily guarded international headquarters

These are hardly the first alarming accusations to come out regarding Cruise and the Church of Scientology.

Former high-ranking Scientologist Marty Rathbun claimed he was ordered to help break-up Cruise and his first wife, Nicole Kidman, when she began to influence him away from the church.

'I was to facilitate the break-up with Nicole Kidman,' Rathbun said in the 2015 documentary Going Clear: Scientology and the Prison of Belief.

Rathbun claims Miscavige had Kidman spied on and wiretapped and that the church even 're-educated' the couple's adopted children so they would turn against their own mother.

After the couple divorced, it has been claimed that high-ranking Scientologists set out to find Cruise a new girlfriend and even launched an audition process within the church.

They allegedly selected Homeland actress Nazanin Boniadi who, as part of her preparation for dating Cruise, was 'audited every day, a process in which she told a high-ranking Scientology official her innermost secrets and every detail of her sex life'.

It has also been claimed that Katie Holmes was forced to agree not to date another man for five years after she divorced Cruise in 2012.

The allegations began surfacing after many noticed that Holmes and Jamie Foxx only recently went public with their long-rumored relationship.

====== 274 ========

VIDEO: MONICA LEWINSKY ON WHETHER CLINTON TOLD HER TO LIE ABOUT AFFAIR

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 275 ========

VIDEO: NEW VIDEO SHOWS BODY OF ALABAMA MALL SHOOTER

Video: New video shows body of Alabama mall shooter lifeless on the floor

New video shows body of Alabama mall shooter after he was shot dead by cops for gunning down girl, 12, and boy, 18.

====== 276 ========

VIDEO: P DIDDY REFLECTS ON GETTING THROUGH DARK TIMES IN A PRAYER

Video: P Diddy reflects on getting through dark times in a prayer

Sean P Diddy Combs reflects on getting through dark times this year in a prayer. He thanks God and expresses love to all others who struggle. 'I'm not your preacher, I'm just your brother.'

====== 277 ========

VIDEO: AMERICAN KILLED BY TRIBE MAY HAVE 'INVITED THAT AGGRESSION'

Video: American killed by tribe may have 'invited' that aggression

American missionary John Allen Chau was killed by North Sentinel Islanders in India after paying fishermen to take him to the island. Anthropologist Professor P.C. Joshi of Delhi University says by going there he...

====== 278 ========

VIDEO: 'GET IN A GIRL'S FACE?' BLACK FRIDAY OVERLOAD AS FIGHT BREAKS OUT

Video: 'Get in a girl's face?' Black Friday overload as fight breaks out

'Get in a girl's face?' Black Friday too much for some as fight breaks out in a US Walmart.

====== 279 ========

VIDEO: PEOPLE RUN AWAY AS SHOTS ARE FIRED INSIDE A MALL IN ALABAMA

Video: People run away as shots are fired inside a mall in Alabama

People run away inside a mall in Alabama, USA, as shots are being fired on Black Friday. The woman recording can be heard screaming. One teen died and two others have been injured following the shooting that started...

====== 280 ========

VIDEO: TWO WOMEN WRESTLE OVER POTS AND PANS DURING BLACK FRIDAY MADNESS

Video: Two women wrestle over pots and pans during Black Friday madness

Two women wrestle over pots and pans during Black Friday madness, with one woman slammed on the ground.

====== 281 ========

VIDEO: BLACK FRIDAY BRAWL BREAKS OUT BETWEEN TWO HAIR-PULLING WOMEN

Video: Black Friday brawl breaks out between two hair-pulling women

Black Friday brawl breaks out between two hair-pulling women on the floor of a store shortly before it was broken up by employees.

====== 282 ========

VIDEO: SHANNON WATTS REVEALS TO HUSBAND CHRIS SHE'S PREGNANT IN JUNE

Video: Shannon Watts reveals to husband Chris she's pregnant in May

Shannon Watts reveals to husband Chris that she is expecting their third child in June 2018. He has now been convicted of murdering his wife, their unborn child and their two daughters in Colorado.

====== 283 ========

VIDEO: 'IT'S ABOUT BLENDING BOO' KIM KARDASHIAN GETS MAKEUP DONE BY NORTH

Video: North West throws tantrum when Kim Kardashian ruins her makeup

'My makeup artist's usually don't act this way:' North West throws tantrum when Kim Kardashian moves, ruining North's makeup tutorial. North was using Kim's new glam smokey bible palette to pamper her mama.

====== 284 ========

APPLE IS CUTTING THE PRICE OF ITS 'BUDGET' IPHONE XR IN JAPAN

Apple is cutting the price of its latest iPhone in Japan to boost sales after an underwhelming launch.

The Silicon Valley firm is offering subsidies to mobile network operators in Japan to help shift its $749 (£749) iPhone XR, which was released less than a month ago.

Operators will offer price cuts as early as next week, a decision which indicates Apple's long-term dominance in the smartphone market may be wavering.

It is not known whether the firm will offer the discount in other regions.

Apple has released a trio of iPhones in 2018, with the XR billed as the 'budget' option in a bid to tempt buyers away from a wave of cheaper handsets offered by Chinese smartphone makers like Huawei and One Plus.

Scroll down for video

Apple is cutting the price of its latest iPhone in Japan to boost sales after an underwhelming launch. Pictured are iPhone XR handsets at an Apple store in Moscow last month

IPHONE XR SPECS Price: $749 (£749) Screen size: 6.1-inch Processor: A12 Bionic Battery life: Up to 15 hours Colours: Yellow, White, Coral, Black, Blue, and Product Red Wireless Charge: Yes Face ID: Yes

The company started selling its latest generation of phones, the $999 (£999) iPhone XS and $1099 (£1099) XS Max, in September and the XR model in October.

Sources close to the company told the Wall Street Journal that is has been forced to offer subsidies for the XR to operators in Japan in a bid to fix poor sales figures.

The XR costs around $750 (£749) on the Japanese Apple Store, but carriers often bundle phones with data plans, the journal noted.

Production of the device has already been cut by the company, and the addition of price drops is a sign of limited enthusiasm among consumers for the model.

The iPhone XR has fewer features than Apple's other two new releases and costs more than still-popular older models like the iPhone 8.

Apple did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

Earlier this week, the WSJ reported that Apple had cut production orders in recent weeks for all three iPhone models launched in September.

The $749 (£749) iPhone XR features a 6.1-inch LCD display and comes in black, white, red, yellow, coral, and blue

A lower-than-expected demand for the new iPhones and Apple's decision to offer more models has made it difficult to anticipate the number of components and handsets the company needs, according to the report.

Forecasts have been particularly problematic for iPhone XR with Apple cutting its production plan by up to a third.

Some suppliers had been asked to produce 70 million units between September and February, WSJ reported.

As recently as last week, Apple informed several suppliers that it had lowered its production plan again for iPhone XR, the Journal said.

Apple shocked investors a few weeks ago with a sales forecast for the Christmas quarter below Wall Street expectations, prompting certain suppliers to issue warnings that pointed to weakness in new iPhone sales.

====== 285 ========

PUPPY TO THE RESCUE! WIENER DOG MAKES THE SAVE OF THE YEAR AND JUMPS IN TO BLOCK A PENALTY KICK

An adorable puppy in soccer-crazed Brazil appears to be vying for a spot on the next World Cup team after making an amazing save.

The Dachshund invaded the pitch during a league soccer match and amazingly stopped a penalty kick from crossing the goal line in Brasilia.

As the goalkeeper and the opposing player position themselves for the penalty kick the dog is seen in cellphone footage sneaking on to the pitch near the left side of the net.

The goalkeeper poses with his new best friend after the pup jumped in front of the goal post and blocked a penalty kick from going in

The player strikes the ball with his right foot to the left side of the post.

The sausage dog then leaps in front of the net and blocks the ball from going in.

The goalkeeper dove in the opposite direction thinking the ball was headed to the right corner of the netting.

The dog then sprinted across the goal line as everyone on the pitch broke out in laughter.

The person who recorded the canine's save is heard saying, 'it's a goal', in Portuguese.

The dog is seen creeping on to the field during the match in Brazil

====== 286 ========

SECOND INMATE INVOLVED IN DELAWARE PRISON RIOT THAT KILLED GUARD DIES

Kelly Gibbs, 30, died early on Thursday inside a Delaware prison

For the second time this month, an inmate involved in a Delaware prison riot that killed a guard has died behind bars.

Kelly Gibbs, one of 16 inmates charged with the murder of Correctional Officer Lt. Steven Floyd, died at 2:45 a.m. on Thursday at the Howard R. Young Correctional Institution in Wilmington. He was 30.

The Department of Corrections said in a statement that foul play is not suspected in Gibbs' death, Delaware Online reported. No further details were released.

It follows the November 8 death of Luis Cabrera, a 49-year-old who was listed as a potential witness in the trials over Floyd's murder.

Cabrera was serving time on a double-murder conviction and also died at Young Correctional.

Correctional Officer Lt. Steven Floyd (left and right) was killed in the prison riot on February 1, 2017 at the James T. Vaughn Correctional Center

A prison guard stands on a tower during a hostage situation at James T. Vaughn Correctional Center in Smyrna, Delaware on February 1, 2017

The prison riot occurred on February 1, 2017 at the James T. Vaughn Correctional Center.

Several trials that have already taken place have revealed key details about the deadly riot.

Inmate Dwayne Staats admitted to planning the uprising to force Governor John Carney to hear inmates' protests about prison conditions.

'My goal was to do something to expose this place to where the public and the government would take notice. I say I got their attention,' said Staats, 37. 'A lot of stuff wasn't being addressed until that happened.'

'When you get into a 'by any means' mode, sometimes you do what is necessary,' Staats later explained under cross-examination.

Police searched Delaware prison inmates in the yard after they found an officer dead inside the building on February 1, 2017 following a 20-hour hostage situation

Prosecutors say that inmates worked together to take control of Building C by beating and handcuffing the three guards there, and locking them in closets.

In addition to Floyd being killed, two other correctional officers were beaten and tormented by inmates before being released.

Hours later, response teams used a backhoe to breach a wall and rescue a female counselor who was still being held hostage. She was not injured.

In the trials that have already taken place, Staats was convicted of murder while Jarreau Ayers was guilty of lesser charges and not convicted of murder. Defendant Deric Forney was exonerated of all charges.

Mounted police patrol travel along Smyrna Landing Road alongside the Vaughn Corrections Center last year after the 20-hour hostage standoff was brought to an end

Gibbs was mentioned several times during testimony at the trial. One witness said that he had bragged about beating the corrections officer Floyd with a fire extinguisher until he heard a 'crack or a pop'.

Another witness said that Gibbs was present during the fatal assault and had blood on his hands, but did not say whether he struck the fatal blow.

Earlier this week, Gibbs pleaded guilty to rioting, kidnapping, and conspiracy in connection with the February 2017 uprising. But he still faced charges of first-degree murder and first-degree assault.

His body was turned over to the Medical Examiner's Office and state police to investigate his death.

====== 287 ========

PREGNANCY JOY FOR LUPUS SUFFERER, 29, WHO WAS TOLD SHE COULD NEVER CARRY CHILDREN

At just 20 years old, then-law student Paula Birch Bilingsley was told she had less than 10 years to live and was infertile.

Having spent years battling anemia, depression, and a high liver protein count, in 2009 she was finally diagnosed with scleroderma and lupus, two life-threatening conditions that causes the immune system to attack itself.

Doctors said she had gone undiagnosed for so long that it would be impossible to undo the damage, and they were certain that the diseases had already made it impossible for her to reproduce.

Devastated, she accepted her new reality.

Paula graduated, got married, and when she and her husband, an Army officer, wanted to start a family in 2016, they adopted their daughter, Evy, thinking biological children were off the table.

But just over a year later, to their shock, Paula found out she was pregnant.

The nine months were difficult, often painful, with many life-threatening moments for Paula.

But against the odds, the now-29-year-old attorney and blogger gave birth to a little boy in October this year.

Fighting: Paula Birch Bilingsley, 29, is now a mother-of-two, just 10 years after she feared she would never have kids. She adopted her daughter Evy (right) in 2016, and a year later had a surprise pregnancy, giving birth to her son in October this year (pictured, left, while pregnant)

Paula was admitted for a planned C-section at 36 weeks, but ended up delivering without it a healthy 5lb 9oz boy who surprisingly didn't need to go to the NICU. Paula had some issues with bleeding but she was stabilized and was able to go home with her bundle of joy

Happy family: Paula, her husband Jay, and their daughter Evy in August 2017

'I had a deep feeling that everything would be fine,' Paula said.

'What helped me was finding a good doctor and staying active. I think the strides made in research just during the time I have had it, meaning new medicines, bring hope that we will find remission for many people. Maybe even a cure one day.'

Throughout her teenage years, Paula's doctors dismissed Paula's concerns that she didn't feel right.

She looked healthy and doctors couldn't see anything that would be a likely culprit.

One doctor chalked it up to mental health issues, and at 18 she was prescribed antidepressants. It was the closest she had ever come to a diagnosis, and Paula was relieved at the idea she might have found an answer.

She stayed on the antidepressants for two years. It didn't do much but she hoped it might.

However, things went south when she was at university.

Paula lost 18 pounds in four weeks - going from 130 pounds to 112.

It was so extreme that doctors decided to run some more specific tests and found some glaring concerns, including anemia and a high protein liver count.

That led them, finally, to an answer: Paula had both scleroderma and lupus.

Scleroderma causes excess calcium and scar tissue on organs, resulting in bruising all over Paula's body, fatigue, red spots on her skin.

Lupus causes the immune system to attack itself, causing joint pain, rashes, fatigue and fevers. It can be exacerbated by exposure to sunlight, and it's incurable.

To control her symptoms Paula was put immediately on a lifelong regimen of daily injections, and a strict diet.

'At the time, I was a healthy and active young woman,' Paula said.

'The visible effect is what finally prompted a diagnosis because before that, any complaints were ignored, or I was given anti-depressants.

Paula bruises easily due to her diseases. Here she is pictured after having blood drawn during pregnancy

'Once labs were run, it was clear that something was wrong.

'It can seem invisible on the outside, but a look inside can tell a different story.'

Paula's lungs are now half formed of scar tissue which makes her heartbeat faster than usual.

Doctors said Paula would be able to conceive but it would be very complicated, would likely involve IVF, and could be dangerous for her health.

After going through so much trouble with her health already, Paula and her husband gave up their dream of having children of their own, instead choosing to adopt. In 2016 they adopted their daughter Evy, and their dream of being a family was realized.

But at the start of this year, just as Paula's husband was about to be deployed with the military, they got the surprise that Paula was in fact pregnant with their son.

'Adoption was the most amazing experience and we got to be there for every pre-natal appointment, the birth and bringing the baby home from hospital. Evy was an easy baby and we were so happy.'

Nonetheless, she was overjoyed - though slightly scared - that after years of trying, they were surprised by a pregnancy.

Being pregnant with lupus can be incredibly dangerous for the mother and the baby.

It meant that Paula had to take daily injections throughout her entire pregnancy to stop the placenta from clotting and killing her unborn baby.

Pregnancy suppresses the immune system, so Paula actually felt better while she was pregnant.

However, she reached a point when her skin couldn't expand further, so there wasn't room for the growing baby, and they had to deliver him early.

The baby was healthy, but lupus caused bleeding complications in the hours after delivery and I had to have emergency surgery and blood transfusions.

Happy families: Jay and their son pictured before church on a recent Sunday

For the newborn, everything was fine.

Their baby boy was born at 36 weeks, needing no special care at all. He was over 5lbs and he went home two days later.

For Paula, it was a different story.

'The bleeding wouldn't stop so they put me under and did an emergency procedure to see what was going on,' she said.

'They gave me drugs to help the blood clot and gave me two units of blood before it stopped.'

Now, Paula is speaking out to raise awareness about autoimmune diseases, trying to call for more research, since research into any autoimmune disease could provide answers about many others.

Jay and Evy on Paula's birthday in September, a month before she gave birth to her son

She urges other sufferers to stay active with things like yoga.

'If you don't do things you will stop being able to do them forever,' she warns.

'Advocate for yourself by finding the best doctor you can who knows the disease – knowledge is power.'

For others, she says more people need to be aware of how debilitating chronic conditions can be, even if they aren't immediately apparent.

'Many of us have to use handicap services and yet we look young and healthy to a stranger,' Paula said.

'Rude comments are common challenges we face.

'People should be aware that you can't see all handicaps. Just because it's not in your face, doesn't mean it's all in my head.

'See me on a bad day – look at my labs and X-rays and it will become obvious.'

====== 288 ========

PENSIONER, 84, DRIVING WRONG WAY ON MASSACHUSETTS INTERSTATE CRASHED, KILLING HIM AND INJURING FIVE

An elderly man driving the wrong way on a Massachusetts highway caused a fiery crash that killed him and injured five on the eve of Thanksgiving, authorities said.

Two children who were among the injured were pulled out of the car by a stranger who smashed the windows just before it burst into flames.

State Police spokesman Dave Procopio said the crash happened around 11.30pm. Wednesday on Interstate 495 in Taunton.

The burnt out shell of the 2016 Mercedes GL450, which was being driven by a 56-year-old man with three passengers - a 42-year-old woman and two boys, aged 10 and 12, all from Foxborough - when Arnold Reda collided with them on Wednesday

Procopio said 84-year-old Arnold Reda, of Foxborough, was headed south on the northbound when his car struck two other cars, causing one of the vehicles to burst into flames.

An investigation showed that Reda, driving a 2005 Toyota Camry, had been travelling north on I-495, when he made a U-turn and began driving in the southbound lane.

He then crashed into a 2016 Mercedes GL450 driven by a 56-year-old man who had three passengers - a 42-year-old woman and two boys, aged 10 and 12, all from Foxborough.

Emergency services arrived at the scene to find the Mercedes fully engulfed in flames. Reda was pronounced dead a the scene

Police said a passing motorist pulled over and smashed the windows of the Mercedes SUV, managing to pull the two boys out before the vehicle caught fire.

Boston 25 News reported that the boys' family are hoping to track down the good Samaritan so they can thank him for saving their lives.

Emergency services arrived at the scene to find the Mercedes fully engulfed in flames.

Images posted on Twitter by Taunton firefighters later show the burnt out shell of the SUV.

The adults were treated at Rhode Island Hospital and the children were transported to Hasbro Children's Hospital, NBC 10 WJAR reported.

Police later described all their injuries as non-life-threatening.

Reda's Toyota collided with a 2003 Lincoln Towncar (pictured). The driver, a 58-year-old woman from Weymouth, was unhurt. Her passenger, a 27-year-old woman from Foxboro, was taken to Sturdy Memorial Hospital with non-life-threatening injuries

After striking the Mercedes, Reda's Toyota collided with a 2003 Lincoln Towncar, with two occupants. The driver, a 58-year-old woman from Weymouth, was unhurt.

The passenger, a 27-year-old woman from Foxboro, was taken to Sturdy Memorial Hospital with non-life-threatening injuries.

Reda, the sole occupant of his vehicle, was pronounced dead at the scene.

Nicole Russel was on her way home from work on I-495 in the Mansfield area when she was almost hit by Reda.

'All of a sudden, I see a guy swerve over quickly,' she told Boston 25 News, 'I see headlights coming at me.'

Russell estimated Reda was driving around 80 to 90 mph.

Arnold Reda, 84, had been travelling north on I-495 when he made a U-turn and began driving in the southbound lane. His 2005 Toyota Camry (red vehicle) then collided with two other cars, injuring five people and killing Reda

The northbound lanes were closed overnight but reopened to holiday traffic early Thursday.

Procopio said police haven't determined how or why the Reda turned on to the wrong side of the highway.

Massachusetts State Police, Taunton Fire Department, Norton Fire Department, MassDOT, Taunton Police, Easton Fire, and Brewster Ambulance Service all responded to the scene.

====== 289 ========

THANKSGIVING CARNAGE: THREE PEOPLE ARE SHOT DEAD IN INDIANA HOME

Three people are dead and two critically injured after a shooting on Thanksgiving night at a house in Fort Wayne, Indiana.

Two men and a woman died in the gunfire, while two men were taken to the hospital in a critical condition.

Officers were called to a house on the south side of Fort Wayne around 10.30pm Thursday. They found four victims inside the house and one outside.

Two men and a woman died in the gunfire at the house in Fort Wayne, Indiana, while two men were taken to the hospital in a critical condition

The house is immediately south of Towles Intermediate School.

Police spokesman Jason Anthony told The Journal Gazette that two males and a female were pronounced dead at the scene.

Police haven't as yet released the victims' names or revealed the events leading up the shooting.

Three victims were pronounced dead at the scene. Police haven't identified any suspects

Around 20 relatives and friends of the victims gathered across the street from the home following the shooting. The area around the house was cordoned off with police tape.

Police haven't as yet released the victims' names or revealed the events leading up the shooting which happened on the south side of Fort Wayne

Investigations are underway but police haven't identified any suspects.

====== 290 ========

PRIESTS SEE SOARING NUMBER OF REQUESTS TO EXPEL DEMONIC FORCES

An official exorcist has claimed that he received 1,700 requests for exorcisms in the past year as people struggle to deal with day-to-day life.

Although the church doesn't keep official statistics, several priests suggested that year-on-year they receive more requests for exorcisms.

The official exorcist for the Archdiocese of Indianapolis, Father Vincent, told The Atlantic that this year he received the most inquiries he has ever had.

Human's are constantly completing with social problems beyond their control such as the loss of skilled jobs, drug addiction, and blighted communities have led people to believe there are other forces at work.

An official exorcist has claimed that he received 1,700 requests for exorcisms in the past year as people struggle to deal with day-to-day life

Father Gary Thomas, who's exorcism experience was documented in 2011 movie The Rite, said he typically receives dozens of requests a week.

As well as those who have been exorcists for years, the church has also been training priests up for the role across the globe in Chicago, Rome and Manila.

Just seven years ago the U.S. Catholic church had around 15 exorcists but there are now believed to be more than 100 practicing.

However for most people who insist that they require an exorcism, they are in fact suffering from something completely different entirely.

Although the church doesn't keep official statistics, several priests suggested that year-on-year they receive more requests for exorcisms

Father Lampert recalled a young man who sought an exorcism and had been told he was experiencing schizophrenia symptoms, which he believed were the work of the devil.

The priest will only take the exorcism seriously if both the mental health evaluation and physical exam do not produce a reasonable explanation for their symptoms.

They will then search for signs of possession including language they are unlikely to have learned, physical strength, secret knowledge and an abhorrence of God.

The process begins with the priest sprinkling holy water on the possessed, they would then make the sign of the cross and kneel to say the Litany of the Saints and several readings of scripture.

The exorcist will then try to directly address the demon and request that they must reveal themselves and answer with their name, and also leave when the are ordered out.

Due to the fact that the exorcist is working with the power of God the demon has no choice but to obey, according to Catholic doctrine.

Louise Muskovits (pictured), 33, is one of many American's who have sought an exorcism after being 'taken over' by unnatural forces in March 2016

As well as people struggling with modern life, some exorcists suggested that their has also been an increase in witchcraft and attempting to communicate with the dead.

Louise Muskovits, 33, is one of many American's who have sought an exorcism after being 'taken over' by unnatural forces in March 2016.

On the surface Muskovits appeared to be having a panic attack, during an interview with her counselor in Tacoma, Washington while recovering from alcohol abuse.

However following the experience she was left convinced she had been possessed, after her character transformed and she began screaming and pulling out her hair.

She told the counselors that were trying to communicate with her that 'nobody could save Louisa'.

Louisa apparently switched between this erratic state and her normal self, as if she was fighting an internal battle.

She had previously detailed being 'taken over' by a dark force where she would read scripture out loud to send it away.

Following the experience Louisa looked for mental-health treatment as well as the ritualized remedies of her Catholic faith.

====== 291 ========

TODDLERS SHOULD SLEEP IN A CRIB UNTIL THEY ARE THREE YEARS OLD

Parents who wait to start the crib-to-bed transition until toddlers are three years old may find that both they and their children get better sleep, researchers say.

In a survey of parents and caregivers across five countries, those who delayed the transition from crib to bed longer were more likely to report less resistance at bedtime, fewer night awakenings and longer sleep duration for children, the study authors report in the journal Sleep Medicine.

'Research during the last decade has shown how important healthy sleep is across the lifespan, but especially during childhood,' said lead study author Ariel Williamson of Children's Hospital of Philadelphia in Pennsylvania.

In previous studies, Williamson and colleagues have found that toddlers deprived of sleep tend to have a more difficult time with tasks, temper tantrums and self-regulating behaviors.

Crib sleeping was associated with going to bed earlier, falling asleep sooner, waking up less often during the night, sleeping for longer stretches during the night and resisting less at bedtime

'At this age, parents and caregivers are the ones paying attention to, and being affected by, their toddlers' sleep,' Williamson told Reuters Health by phone. 'It's important to record a caregiver's report as much as objective measures of sleep.'

Williamson and colleagues collected data from 1,983 caregivers with toddlers aged between 18 and 36 months living in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States.

The data was submitted by caregivers using the Johnson's Bedtime baby sleep app, a free smartphone application offered by Johnson & Johnson. J&J Consumer Inc also funded the study.

The research team found that rates of crib-sleeping decreased steadily with age, with 63 percent of toddlers sleeping in a crib from ages 18 to 24 months, as compared to 34 percent still in a crib at 24 to 30 months and 13 percent from 30 to 36 months.

Crib sleeping was associated with going to bed earlier, falling asleep sooner, waking up less often during the night, sleeping for longer stretches during the night and resisting less at bedtime.

'What stuck out to us was how remarkably consistent the benefits were at each toddler age group,' Williamson said. 'This is what we see clinically as well.'

In future studies, Williamson and the research team will use the app to investigate how parents start the crib-to-bed transition and what motivates them.

In some cases, parents with another baby on the way begin to move their toddler to a bed so they can use the crib again.

Others start the transition because their toddler climbs out of the crib or seems physically too big to stay in the current crib.

'Adults tend to see cribs as cages, but that's not how children see them,' said Lisa Meltzer, a pediatric psychologist at National Jewish Health in Denver, Colorado, who wasn't involved in the study.

'Children like small spaces as they feel safe and comfortable with them,' she said by email. 'If you watch young children play, they like to play under the table or in large boxes.'

Other researchers are interested in developing a protocol that helps families make the crib-to-bed transition, since it could cause some sleep problems that didn't exist previously.

'Some strategies that already exist for helping kids to stay in bed, such as role-playing games, could also prepare children for that transition,' said Sarah Honaker, a sleep psychologist at Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis, Indiana, who wasn't involved in the study.

Sleep experts and pediatricians tend to recommend an adjustable crib that transitions lower to the ground as the child ages, Honaker said.

This helps the toddler get comfortable with a sleeping arrangement that feels more like a bed and reduces injuries and falls if the child tries to climb out of the crib.

'A three-year-old is more likely to have the cognitive development to remember the rules of staying in bed,' she said in a phone interview.

'Buying a crib with an adjustable mattress can prevent parents from having to make a transition that their child may not be developmentally ready to make.'

====== 292 ========

MYSTERIOUS TUNNELS THAT MAY HAVE BEEN USED DISCOVERED IN TAMPA, FLORIDA

Spacious tunnels that may have been used for smuggling in Chinese-Cuban prostitutes during Prohibition have been discovered during construction in Florida.

There's been talk about mysterious passageways underneath the suburb of Ybor City in Central Florida going back about 20 years, University of Southern Florida - St. Petersburg professor Emeritus of history Dr. Gary Mormino told DailyMail.com.

Mormino, 71, who has been researching the history of Ybor City for about 40 years, said the first tunnels of this kind were unearthed about two decades ago when work was being down below a Blue Ribbon grocery store.

'That provoked the question, "Why would you build a tunnel in an area that has a water table of about one foot below sea level?"'

While some have guessed the underground passages may have been used by bootleggers, Mormino said that doesn't make sense, and it's more likely they were used to bring in prostitutes or Chinese laborers from Cuba.

Spacious tunnels that may have been used for smuggling in Chinese-Cuban prostitutes during Prohibition have been discovered during construction in Tampa, Florida's Ybor City

These latest tunnels were found earlier this week near the Old Florida Brewery, close to East 6th Avenue and Noccio Parkway, while construction was being done on a new office building.

Workers were tearing down a warehouse when they found the hidden passage, tall enough to stand up in with a rounded ceiling.

Mormino described them as, 'nothing too remarkable to look at,' flat on the bottom, and wide, making them unsuitable as a sewage system, and all the more interesting to those wondering why they exist.

History professor and researcher Dr. Gary Mormino described the tunnels to DailyMail.com as, 'nothing too remarkable to look at,' flat on the bottom, and wide, making them unsuitable as a sewage system, and all the more interesting to those wondering why they exist

'At this point, I'm looking at ruling things out,' he said. 'I'm asking myself, "What were the tunnels not used for?"'

While some are quick to guess they may have been used to transport bootlegged alcohol during the 1920s and early 1930s, Mormino said that doesn't make any sense, either.

'I interviewed a lot of people in the 1970s and '80s who would have been involved in bootlegging of '20s and '30s and they've all said the only people who feared the police were those who weren't involved in the rackets' he said. 'If you paid off the police, you were fine.'

University of Southern Florida - St. Petersburg professor Emeritus of history Dr. Gary Mormino told DailyMail.com the tunnels (pictured) were likely part of a criminal network, and that Ybor City officials would have had to be in on the construction

Mormino shared a story about one of his interview subjects named Sam, who said his father was an Italian bootlegger, who would receive a call once each month from the police telling him he had to come in and be arrested and pay his fines.

Once there, Sam said the police would ask his father what name he wanted to be arrested under 'this time,' and the next day the front page of the newspaper would read, 'Seven Italian bootleggers arrested,' as part of a ruse intended to appease the public.

In fact, Mormino said Sam also told him he used to deliver crates of bootlegged alcohol to shops and when the police were they, they would open the door and help him carry the boxes in, praising him for being such an enterprising young man.

So, Mormino has determined, the tunnels probably weren't used for bootlegging.

Instead, he said, it's far more likely they were used for 'white slavery related to bringing women across interstate lines for immoral purposes,' along with smuggling in Chinese laborers and Chinese-Cuban prostitutes.

Mormino said Ybor City has had a large Chinese-Cuban population dating back to 1886.

'Chinese people were brought to Cuba after slavery ended in late 19th century to replace slaves and work in the sugar industry,' Mormino said.

The professor guessed that around that time, city of Tampa officials may have been in on creating the tunnels which would have otherwise been a massive and expensive undertaking for a criminal enterprise.

While some are quick to guess they may have been used to transport bootlegged alcohol during the 1920s and early 1930s, Mormino said that doesn't make any sense, because police were so 'in on it' that tunnels wouldn't have been necessary; In this undated photo federal authorities are shown unearthing a buried whiskey cache in the backyard of a Ybor City home

Mormino believes that local leaders may have extending the passages down to the port

'Basically, corrupt politics likely allowed the criminal elements to use those tunnels as part of a vast, interconnected network,' he said.

But, Mormino made sure to mention, that while it's fun to guess about what may have gone on in those hidden passageways all those years ago, anything anyone has come up with is just a guess.

'I don't know if we'll ever know the truth, to be honest,' Mormino said. 'It's a rather elusive story now.

====== 293 ========

HONOLULU BURGER JOINT SHUT DOWN FOR CLEANING AFTER VIDEO SURFACES SHOWING A 'RAT' COOKING ON A GRILL

A Honolulu burger restaurant has closed down for cleaning after a video surfaced on social media appearing to show a rat cooking on a grill.

Teddy's Bigger Burgers, a Hawaii-based burger chain, has fired two employees seen in the Snapchat video.

The footage shows a small rodent like animal laid on its back that's turned on its side like a piece of meat before being poked and prodded by a staff member holding a cooking utensil used to flip burgers.

One of the employees is heard to say, 'I think it's time to quit Teddy's.'

The video ends with one staff member smiling and the other opening his mouth to pull a shocked face.

The restaurant, on Mapunapuna Street, has closed its doors while it undergoes a thorough cleaning.

Teddy's Bigger Burgers President Richard Stula said in a statement that 'equipment and utensils are being replaced at the restaurant and it's undergoing 'a complete sanitization,' according to The Associated Press.

The footage shows a small rodent like animal laid on its back that's turned on its side like a piece of meat before being poked and prodded by a staff member

The restaurant in the Snapchat video is on Mapunapuna Street in Honolulu. It has closed its doors while it undergoes a thorough cleaning

The company are investigating the video's authenticity and are 'horrified' by the employees' conduct, Stula added. The restaurant will also be inspected and audited by a corporate team before reopening, he said.

The State Department of Health is scheduled to carry out its own inspection on Friday.

====== 294 ========

FOUR MARYLAND JUNIOR VARSITY FOOTBALL PLAYERS ALLEGEDLY HAZED THEIR TEAMMATES WITH A BROOMSTICK

Four Maryland junior varsity football players will be charged as adults after they were accused of hazing a teammates with a broomstick.

Damascus High School students Jean 'JC' Abedi, Kristian Lee, Will Smith and Caleb Thorpe - all 15 - were accused of raping teammates on Halloween.

Montgomery County Public Schools released a statement on Wednesday announcing that the State's Attorney for Montgomery County amended the charges to consider the minors as adults.

Damascus High School students Jean 'JC' Abedi, Kristian Lee, Will Smith and Caleb Thorpe - all 15 - were accused of raping teammates of theirs on Halloween

A fifth student will remain in juvenile court, WJLA reports.

The players were said to have used a wooden broomstick to sodomize the victims.

Four victims were chosen based off their age and level of athleticism, sources revealed. According to the Washington Post, the attacks were said to be a part of a hazing ritual. The attacks were done after the lights were turned off.

And the attacks were referred to as 'upsetting and unacceptable' by school administrators who added that the incidents took place in the boy's locker room near the gymnasium. The principal was responsible for reporting the assault on November 1.

Conversations about the assault took place on Snapchat, according to police.

Incidents occurred in the boy's locker room and involved a wooden broomstick handle

Three of the players were initially charged with second-degree rape and two counts of attempted second-degree rape. The fourth player was charged with three counts of second-degree rape.

The fifth player received a charge of attempted second-degree rape.

The charges for the four have been bumped to first-degree rape.

According to Abedi's lawyer, Daniel Wright, the teen 'intends to plead not guilty. He comes from a strong family background and has the support of his family.'

The sentiment was shared by Smith's attorney, David Felsen, who claimed that his client had no previous disciplinary problems.

'He's a very good student,' Felsen said, 'always respectful to teachers and adults and gets good grades.'

The teens were processed at the Montgomery County Detention Center and will have bond review hearing until Monday due to the holiday.

If convicted, they could face decades in prison.

Felsen added that he wasn't thrilled about the move to have them in an adult jail for five days. He stated: 'We are disappointed that the state's attorney's office chose to deal with Will's case in this manner.'

Shelly L. Brown, a layer for Thorpe, commented that adult jail can be 'quite frightening.' She continued: 'The justice system should treat him as a child, not an adult.'

According to Brown, Thorpe had 'never been in trouble before at school, or had any criminal or juvenile charges. He's very active in his community. He serves God and the community, and he has a very close-knit, supportive family.'

Thomas DeGonia, who is representing two of the victims, said that officials 'have been very professional and have been as responsive as they can be to us, given the horrible allegations of the case.'

'The families are trusting the State's Attorney's Office to pursue the case in a manner that best seeks justice,' he added.

Pilar C. Nichols, attorney for the other victims, said that the entire ordeal was 'a very sad, terrible situation all the way around.'

====== 295 ========

CENTURY-OLD WRECK OF SHIP DISCOVERED BY DIVERS

Century-old shipwreck J.H. Jones which went down killing everyone on board has been discovered by a maritime historian in the depths of Georgian Bay.

One of the victim's of the wreck was Captain James Crawford, who went down with the ship in 1906, after it was battered by a perilous storm.

More than 100 years later his 83-year-old great-grandson Robert Crawford went to visit the site along with the diving crew.

There were ten crew members on board the small steamer from Wiarton, Ontario in Canada and between them they left 16 children behind.

Research began on the wreck several years ago by Cris Kohl, who has also previously discovered other missing ships in the Great Lakes

Research began on the wreck several years ago by Cris Kohl, who has also previously discovered other missing ships in the Great Lakes.

The shipwreck was found on Canada Day, with the help of two other enthusiasts, Ken Merryman and Jerry Eliason from Minnesota.

It was discovered lying on the bottom of the bay 200 ft deep, near Lion's Head, Ontario.

Footage of the wreckage shows the ship, with the hull mostly intact, covered in algae however the outline of the ship is still clear to see

The shipwreck was found on Canada Day, with the help of two other enthusiasts, Ken Merryman and Jerry Eliason from Minnesota

When the researchers dived down to take a better look at the remnants of the ship, they found no trace of human remains.

Footage of the wreckage shows the ship, with the hull mostly intact, covered in algae however the outline of the ship is still clear to see.

The ship's smoke stack had toppled onto it's side but the steam engine components were still identifiable.

The ship's smoke stack had toppled onto it's side but the steam engine components were still identifiable

====== 296 ========

COLIN HANKS IS SELLING A LINE OF HANDKERCHIEFS CALLED HANKS KERCHIEFS

Colin Hanks has created a whole business based on some funny wordplay.

The 40-year-old actor, who is the son of living legend Tom Hanks, has launched his own line of handkerchiefs called Hanks Kerchiefs.

His punnily-named new accessories launched this month and despite the standout name alone being reason to buy, Colin is also seriously making the case for adding handkerchiefs into your fashion rotation.

New gig: Colin Hanks has debuted his own line of handkerchiefs called 'Hanks Kerchiefs'

Wardrobe staple: The 40-year-old actor said anyone who knows him knows he always has a kerchief on him

The collection of eight handkerchiefs, which cost $28 each or $200 for the whole collection, went on sale November 16

The collection of eight handkerchiefs, which cost $28 each or $200 for the whole collection, went on sale November 16.

They come in a variety of colors and prints, and Colin says there are plans to expand in the future.

'After several months of work and planning, I am incredibly excited to announce the launch of our Fall 2018 collection of Hanks Kerchiefs!' the star wrote on Instagram last week.

'I've enlisted the help of the @anderson.brothers, as well as countless others, to help turn a passion of mine into a reality. Something you can hold in your hand, put in your pockets, or wear on your neck. The possibilities are pretty much endless.

'Also, I'm a sucker for wordplay.'

Accessorize: They come in a variety of colors and prints, and Colin says there are plans to expand in the future

Style: He suggested several ways to wear them, including around your neck 'like John Wayne' or wrapped around your head 'like Brett Michaels from Poison'

The handkerchiefs are all made in California, and Colin promised that a portion of each sale from the first line will be donated to help with the recovery efforts for the fires in California.

On the brand's website, Colin wrote about how he's actually a big fan of handkerchiefs, and didn't only get into the business for the wordplay.

'With so many options in today's world, it's unique to discover something, anything, that brings a newfound sense of comfort. For example, a new favorite band, food, or t-shirt,' he said.

'Kerchiefs have been one of those small items that have always brought me that same kind of pleasure.'

Famous fam: Each is named after someone he cares about, but there is no 'Tom' kerchief because 'there's enough about that dude' (pictured right with dad tom Hanks)

With the release of the first collection, Colin has been promoting Hanks Kerchiefs on social media, and went live on Twitter a week ago with a video in which he talked to fans.

'This is a real thing now that I'm selling,' he said, holding up several of the products. 'I started a kerchief company. A handkerchief company called Hank's kerchiefs, and I got a bunch of different designs.'

He went through each them, which are all named after people. There's an Arthur, a Samantha (named after his wife), an Olivia and a Charlotte (named after his daughters), a Tim, an Earl (named after his dog), a Russ, and an Akiva.

'Yeah I really did name one after Akiva from The Lonely Island,' he said. 'Because when I first was coming up with the designs and I had my first sort of samples, he really gravitated toward this one.

Meaningful: 'Kerchiefs have been one of those small items that have always brought me that same kind of pleasure,' he said of the designs, which are all made in California

Love: Colin added that the designs are all 'named after people that I care about'. There are kerchiefs named after his wife Samantha and his kids, Olivia and Charlotte

'All of them are named after friends of mine. People that I care about,' he said. 'I got 'em named after a bunch of people. And no, I didn't name one Tom, because there's enough about that dude.'

Colin said he's a big fan of handkerchiefs, and most people who know him are familiar with his love of the accessory.

'I've always had a kerchief on me. Pretty much anyone who knows me knows that I always have one,' he said, adding that he typically keeps his in his left rear pocket.

He also suggested several different ways to wear them, including around your neck 'like John Wayne' or wrapped around your head 'like Brett Michaels from Poison.'

====== 297 ========

INCREDIBLE HEART-SHAPED ISLAND IS ON THE MARKET FOR $1.43M

Home could be where this heart-shaped island is for one buyer with deep pockets.

The 1.5 acre rocky outcrop in Ontario, Canada, known as Navy's Acre Island, has hit the market for $1.43 million (£1.12 million).

The island, which is surrounded by glistening blue waters and peppered with pine trees, is described as being 'perfect for entertaining large numbers' with a main cottage, a separate master cottage, a three bedroom guest cottage and a waterside sleeping cabin decked out with four bunks.

A 1.5 acre rocky outcrop in Ontario, Canada, known as Navy's Acre Island, has hit the market for $1.43 million (£1.12 million)

The island, which is surrounded by glistening blue waters and peppered with pine trees, is described as being 'perfect for entertaining large numbers'. Above, a view of one of the master bedrooms

The main cottage, which spans 1,128 square feet, features a kitchen, living room, dining areas, a spacious bathroom and a family room that overlooks the main floor.

Temperatures in the area - Georgian Bay - can plummet to lows of minus 15 degrees Celsius in the winter, so there is also a wood burning fireplace to keep residents warm.

Over in the guest cottage, there are three bedrooms with queen size beds and a bathroom with a tub and shower.

The main cottage, which spans 1,128 square feet, features a kitchen, living room, dining areas, a spacious bathroom and a family room that overlooks the main floor

Temperatures in the area can plummet to lows of minus 15 degrees Celsius in the winter, but there is a wood burning fireplace in the main living space to keep residents warm

Other features include gardens, a large sand beach area, a fire pit and stone BBQ

Facilities include a laundry room, workshop and storage unit.

The island's listing on Private Islands Inc notes that one of the best spots to sleep is in the master cottage.

Inside the wood-clad accommodation block is a master bedroom with large windows spanning from east to west, so guests can watch the sunrise and sunset shimmering over the interior forest.

Other perks include a large walk-in closet.

For those looking for a more quirky spot to sleep, a cabin by the water's edge on the southern end of the island houses two sets of bunk beds.

In total, the island can comfortably accommodate at least 12 people.

Other features include gardens, a large sand beach area, a fire pit and stone BBQ.

The listing adds that the island is very close to sheltered back bays, which are 'ideal for teaching children to canoe, kayak and fish'.

A view of one of the sandy beaches with a paved pathway leading down to the area

For those looking for a more quirky spot to sleep, a cabin by the water's edge on the southern end of the island houses two sets of bunk beds. In total the island can comfortably accommodate at least 12 people

Wooden walkways allow guests to navigate the rocky island and get to the various accommodation blocks

====== 298 ========

NEW ZEALAND’S NORTH AND SOUTH ISLANDS ARE MOVING CLOSER TOGETHER AFTER 7.8-MAGNITUDE EARTHQUAKE

Kaikōura earthquake brought the two islands five metres closer together in 2016

New Zealand's north and south islands are 'creeping' closer together in the aftermath of the devastating Kaikōura earthquake.

The 7.8-magnitude earthquake initially brought the islands five metres closer when it struck the tip of South Island in November 2016.

Now two years on, post-quake monitoring has revealed the land is still reshaping due to unsettled fault lines - with Cook Strait, the body of water between the two islands, narrowing.

The 7.8-magnitude earthquake initially brought the islands five metres closer when it struck the tip of South Island in November 2016 (file photo)

Police investigate the aftermath of the Kaikōura earthquake on a road in New Zealand's South Island

The northern part of South Island has been moving northeast towards its sister island since the quake, GNS Science revealed.

Dr Sigrún Hreinsdóttir​, a GNS Science geodetic scientist, told Stuff that Cape Campbell on the northeastern coast of the South Island is now 35 centimetres closer to Wellington.

Dr Hreinsdóttir also said GPS monitoring stations installed after the earthquake showed Kaikōura had moved 15 centimetres east, Blenheim had slipped 15 centimetres northeast and Nelson had moved five centimetres southeast.

The Kaikōura earthquake tore apart a record of 25 faults when it hit near to North Canterbury

The country's capital, Wellington, had also moved five centimetres to the northeast.

But the scientist said it was difficult to work out which fault line was responsible for each movement.

She said: 'In reality we are having all these creepings going on and the question is, which is the dominant factor?

'The idea there was a quite significant component on that plate interface was the surprising thing to us.'

Now two years on, post-quake monitoring has revealed the land is still reshaping due to unsettled fault lines (file photo)

Dr Hreinsdóttir said the land creep is likely to continue for years at a much slower pace.

The Kaikōura earthquake tore apart a record of 25 faults when it hit near to North Canterbury, on the tip of South Island.

It claimed the lives of two and caused dozens of injuries as parts of the Malborough coast were lifted more than six metres in some places and fell more than two metres in others.

====== 299 ========

BRAWL BREAKS OUT IN COURTROOM AS WOMAN IS JAILED FOR KILLING BABY

A brawl broke out in a packed Milwaukee courtroom Wednesday after a former daycare owner was sentenced in the death of a seven-week-old baby.

The fight erupted Wednesday shortly after 37-year-old Claudette Mitchell was led away in handcuffs after being sentenced to 3.5 years in prison.

Mitchell was charged in the death of Savaiyah Reid, who was fatally injured at her daycare in August 2017.

Originally charged with first-degree reckless homicide, Mitchell pleaded guilty in September to neglecting a child, resulting in death.

This is the moment a brawl breaks out inside a Milwaukee courtroom between about 50 people

The shocking incident happened Wednesday after a former daycare owner was sentenced in the death of a seven-week-old baby

Law enforcement officials are seen intervening during the brawl

In court, Mitchell said she did not cause the baby’s injuries but feels responsible.

She said in a court statement: 'I can't express how sad I am for this tragedy.'

After sentencing, an altercation broke out involving about 50 members of the defendant’s and victim’s families and friends.

Claudette Mitchell (pictured) was led away in handcuffs after being sentenced. Mitchell was charged in the death of Savaiyah Reid, who was fatally injured at her daycare in August 2017

The Milwaukee County Sheriff’s Department says additional deputies and DA investigators were called to restore order.

The department said: 'An emotional homicide case involving the death of a two-month-old child resulted in a post-sentencing altercation between about 50 members of the defendant’s and victim’s families and friends.

'Additional security was in place due to prior contentious hearings, but the defendant’s side did not comply with deputies’ orders to remain in the courtroom while the victim’s family was being escorted out.'

The altercation involved about 50 members of the defendant’s and victim’s families and friends

====== 300 ========

AMERICAN TOURIST RESCUED IN AUSTRALIA AFTER LONG NIGHT ON HIS CAPSIZED VESSEL CALLED 'ISIS'

An American tourist has been rescued off Australia's northeast coast after his boat capsized, forcing him to spend a cold and lonely night on the overturned vessel as it drifted on the tide.

Levi Verwoest, 29, was sailing his 23-foot catamaran 'Isis' 25 miles off the Queensland coast on Wednesday evening when he realized the vessel was taking on water.

Within minutes the boat capsized and Verwoest spent 12 hours adrift before being able to activate his emergency locator beacon.

A helicopter from the Royal Automobile Club of Queensland (RACQ) winched Verwoest from the hull of his overturned boat only 12 minutes after the beacon was activated.

'Without that emergency beacon the poor bloke faced a much longer and more dangerous wait in the water for either a passing boat to see him or to be reported missing,' RACQ rescuer Arno Schoonwinkle was quoted in a media release as saying.

RACQ described Verwoest as 'uninjured and incredibly calm despite his ordeal' on Facebook.

Levi Verwoest's catamaran capsized within minutes of taking on water on Wednesday night

The American tourist then spent 12 hours adrift through the night clinging to the hull of his overturned vessel

Verwoest was hoisted into a rescue helicopter only a few minutes after activating his emergency locator beacon

The tourist from Hawaii lost his possessions, including his passport, in the capsizing, and is in need of assistance to return home

The tourist, who is from Hawaii and has been travelling along the Queensland coast and Great Barrier Reef for about three years, was not hurt.

He lost all his belongings though, including his passport and his catamaran but was calm as he spoke to the media.

'It was just irritating mostly,' Verwoest said of the ordeal.

Levi Verwoest with his rescuers from the Royal Automobile Club of Queensland (RACQ)

'If I didn't have the EPIRB I'd still be drifting out there and hoping someone sailed past.'

'Although we've been able to assist him with the basics including food and clothing, he is desperately in need of help to get to Sydney and the American consulate,' the RACQ posted on behalf of the stranded tourist. 'If you can help Levi in his time of need, we'd love to hear from you!'

====== 301 ========

ADORABLE PUPPY CLINGS TO HIS OWNER’S ARM AS HE RECEIVES HIS VERY FIRST SHOWER

This is the adorable moment a five-month-old puppy was filmed clinging onto his owner while receiving his very first shower.

Gabe Fullerton, 27, from Renfrewshire, Scotland, had taken his Wolf Sable Pomeranian puppy Rollo for a walk around the woods on Sunday evening when he noticed the canine's 'manky' musk.

The physiotherapist from Scholars Green, Johnstone, decided to capture the dog's very first shower on camera while his partner Rhea Gathercole, 25, gave the dog a good scrub.

This is the adorable moment dog owner Gabe Fullerton, 27, from Renfrewshire, Scotland, decided to give his five-month-old Wolf Sable Pomeranian puppy Rollo his very first shower

Mr Fullerton decided to capture the amusing scene on camera while his partner Rhea Gathercole (right), 25, applied soap and water to the dog's fur

Rather than wipe the dog down using wipes, Mr Fullerton and his partner decided it was time their puppy, who they have owned for two months, experience the joys of a shower.

In the amusing video, the tiny pooch is seen balancing himself on his hind legs as Ms Gathercole applies soap and water to his fur.

The dog, who is clearly in completely new territory, clings onto the arm of Mr Fullerton in an effort to keep his balance.

Footage of the puppy's first shower was later posted on social media by Mr Fullerton's brother Daniel, 24.

During the footage the puppy is seen standing on his hind legs while desperately trying to hold onto Mr Fullerton's arm

Mr Fullerton and his partner decided it was time their puppy, who they have owned for two months, experience the joys of a shower after noticing his 'manky' smell

Footage of Rollo's first shower was later posted on social media by Mr Fullerton's brother Daniel, 24

Speaking on the amusing footage Mr Fullerton added that he was glad it made people smile.

This is not the first time owners have captured their pooches having a wash.

In 2017 a French mastiff called Legend, was filmed looking particularly miserable while receiving his bespoke shower by his owner Teddy Lawhead's son Isiah.

The video became an instant hit gathering more than 95,000 views on the social network and numerous comments.

====== 302 ========

HEIDI KLUM, 45, EMBRACES HER SHIRTLESS BEAU TOM KAULITZ, 29, IN SWEET SUNSET SNAP

Heidi Klum is seemingly spending the Thanksgiving holiday weekend on a beach, if her latest social media snap is any indication.

The supermodel took to Instagram on Wednesday to share the new photo, featuring a gorgeous sunset in the background, while thanking the photographer - her son Henry.

'Thank you Henry for the picture,' Klum said, including the heart emoji, face throwing a kiss emoji and the hugging face emoji.

Sunset couple: Heidi Klum shared a new photo with her beau Tom Kaulitz sharing a gorgeous sunset together on Wednesday

Klum, 45, was seen wearing a men's dress shirt and a light blue trucker's cap backwards, while wrapping her arms around Kaulitz, 29.

Kaulitz was only wearing a pair of dark blue swim trunks, while holding his phone and a towel.

Klum also took to her Instagram story, sharing a brief video of Kaulitz, with no sound, but with a red heart drawn around his head and the words 'I Love You.'

Showing her love: Klum also took to her Instagram story, sharing a brief video of Kaulitz, with no sound, but with a red heart drawn around his head and the words 'I Love You.'

Klum and Kaulitz were first linked together in March, with Klum making the relationship public in May at the Cannes Film Festival.

Much has been made of the couple's 16-year age difference, but Klum opened up about it with an interview in In Style this past May.

'My boyfriend is many years younger than me, and lots of people are questioning that and asking about it,” she said in the candid interview.

Klum and Kaulitz: Klum and Kaulitz were first linked together in March, with Klum making the relationship public in May at the Cannes Film Festival

'That's really the only time when age seems to be shoved in my face and I have to give an answer for it,' Klum added.

'I don't really think about it that much otherwise,' she continued. 'You have to just live a happy life without worrying too much about what people think because worrying is only going to give you more wrinkles.'

'I don't really think about getting older that much — I mean, know it’s happening to me, it's happening to all of us,' she added.

In love: Much has been made of the couple's 16-year age difference

Heidi and Mel: Klum recently shared photos of her with Kaulitz at her son Johan's 12th birthday party, along with shots of her America's Got Talent co-star Melanie Brown

'But it’s not like I wake up in the morning, look in the mirror, and say, ‘Oh my God, oh my God.’ Lately, I’m being reminded more about my age by people other than myself,' she said.'

Klum recently shared photos of her with Kaulitz at her son Johan's 12th birthday party, along with shots of her America's Got Talent co-star Melanie Brown.

Klum also has a 14 year old daughter Helene, a nine year old daughter Lou.

====== 303 ========

HUGH JACKMAN VOWS WOLVERINE WILL RETURN BUT NOT WITH RYAN REYNOLDS

He has played Wolverine in a series of movies for 18 years.

And Hugh Jackman, 50, promised his iconic long-running character Wolverine will return to the big screen during his Sunday Today appearance.

However, he refused to work with the 'relentless' Ryan Reynolds on a movie encompassing both his character Wolverine and his pal's screen alter ego Deadpool.

Scroll down for video

Confident on Wolverine's comeback, he told TV host Willie Geist: 'Oh, Wolverine will be back. Someone’s going to buy him, I don’t know.'

Hugh put on Wolverine's claws for the first time when he landed his breakthrough role in The X Men franchise in 2000.

Over the last 18 years, the Hollywood actor went onto reprise the role for the follow-up films in the superhero franchise as well as the Wolverine spin-off movies.

'He'll be back': Hugh Jackman vowed Wolverine WILL return... but he ruled out working with 'relentless' Ryan Reynolds for Deadpool crossover movie

Blast from the past! Hugh put on Wolverine's claws for the first time when he landed his breakthrough role in The X Men franchise in 2000

Logan, which was released last year in 2017, tied up the loose ends of Wolverine's journey for hardcore fans.

Ryan, who is close friends with Hugh, has been persistent on trying to get The Greatest Showman star on board for a Deadpool and Wolverine crossover movie.

In his typical humorous tongue, Ryan previously cheekily quipped: 'I continue to do press for Hugh Jackman to comeback. God knows he's just been failing constantly since Wolverine.'

Wolverine makes a cameo appearance in Deadpool 2 but The X Men star didn't film any new scenes for the movie.

Good pals: Ryan, who is close friends with Hugh, has been persistent on trying to get The Greatest Showman star on board for a Deadpool and Wolverine crossover movie

The clip comes from X-Men: Origins — Wolverine which is the 2009 movie where Ryan made his debut as the funny comic character Deadpool.

Hugh hit back at his friend's cutting comments as he joked his pal was 'relentless' and a 'dag' which is the Australian equivalent for a 'goof'.

He elaborated: 'No, but Ryan is relentless. He keeps coming back to me in all these ways, shapes and forms.

'I just said, "You know, I just don’t think the world really wants to see Deadpool with Wolverine." Maybe a cameo from Deadpool? I just think it runs over it, for Deadpool.

====== 304 ========

MEGHAN MARKLE NAMED THIRD MOST POWERFUL FASHION INFLUENCER BEHIND KYLIE JENNER

The Duchess of Sussex has been named the third most powerful celebrity fashion influencer of 2018 behind two members of the Kardashian-Jenner clan by global search platform Lyst.

Meghan climbed to third behind only Kylie Jenner and Kim Kardashian in Lyst's annual Fashion Report, although her sister-in-law Kate fared less well, sliding from number five in 2017 to 16 this year.

It seems the newest addition to the senior royals, who rocked a jaw-dropping designer wardrobe over her whirlwind 16-day tour of Australia, New Zealand, Fiji and Tonga with Prince Harry in October, is wielding even more style clout than long-timer Kate, whose outfits have been selling out within hours of her wearing them for years.

Lyst, which has extended its rankings to a top 20 for the first time for 2018, explored the impact of celebrities' outfits using a combination of social, search and sales data points.

The platform has monitored spikes in fashion demand sparked by influencers, taking into account social media mentions, press coverage, global search, and sales response to some of the stars' most talked about outfits - from Kylie Jenner's athleisure wear to Meghan's wedding gown.

Number 3: Meghan Markle's magic effect continues to grow worldwide, with much of the Duchess' most life-changing year ever played out in the spotlight

The Duchess of Cambridge, seen at the Royal Variety Performance last November, was placed at number five in Lyst's Fashion Report for 2017 - but slipped down to 16th place in the list of most powerful celebrity fashion influencers for 2018

Elsewhere pop stars including Cardi B, Beyonce and Lady Gaga dominate the list, with eight of the top 20 music industry stars.

Menawhile Serena Williams is the first sportswoman to make the list following the controversy over her black tennis catsuit, while Indian actress Priyanka Chopra joins the mostly American line-up.

A relatively unknown new entry is Italian influencer Chiara Ferragni, who boasts 15m followers, and went viral after wearing three custom-made Dior dresses during her wedding to rapper Fedez.

Elsewhere Rihanna slipped from her top spot last year down to number nine, with her focus being on the launch of her beauty line Fenty.

Kylie Jenner, seen left, has well and truly emerged from her big sister Kim Kardashian's (seen right) shadow - the 21-year-old was named 2018's most powerful celebrity fashion influencer by Lyst, while Kim had to satisfy herself with second place

Menawhile Serena Williams is the first sportswoman to make the list following the controversy over her black tennis catsuit, while Indian actress Priyanka Chopra joins the mostly American line-up.

A relatively unknown new entry is Italian influencer Chiara Ferragni, who boasts 15m followers, and went viral after wearing three custom-made Dior dresses during her wedding to rapper Fedez.

Elsewhere Rihanna slipped from her top spot last year down to number nine, with her focus being on the launch of her beauty line Fenty.

1. Kylie Jenner

A pink mini dress that she wore to her birthday party saw searches for 'pink dresses' increase 107 per cent in the following 48 hours (seen right), while her Dior sunglasses helped a spike in searches

Truly outgrowing her more humble beginnings as the younger sister of a reality star, 2018 was Kylie Jenner's year.

At the tender age of 21 the youngest Kardashian has built a beauty empire, acquired over 115m Instagram followers, had her first child and is set to become the youngest 'self-made' billionaire.

A true style chameleon, Kylie has driven more than 2 million searches this year, from Adidas tracksuits and Dior sunglasses to Victoria Secret underwear and Alexander Wang mini dresses.

A pink mini dress that she wore to her birthday party saw searches for 'pink dresses' increase 107 per cent in the following 48 hours.

2. Kim Kardashian

Kim brought back the nineties thong after wearing a Gucci g-string on Instagram (left) and helped revive bondage-style outwear after wearing a black racy Versace dress

Kim Kardashian made history this year as the first recipient of the CFDA's Influencer Award.

This was also the year she made bike shorts cool, gave us a thing for neon swimwear and brought back the nineties thong after wearing a Gucci g-string on Instagram.

She was then responsible for helping to revive the Fendi logo when she posted a photo dressed head to toe in the FF 'Zucca' monogram, boosting searches by 16% month-on-month.

Elsewhere she helped bring back bondage-style outwear after wearing a black racy Versace dress.

3. Meghan Markle

Meghan's wedding day outfits caused huge spikes in search for both Givenchy and Stella McCartney (left) while her tuxedo dress (right) caused multiple retailers to sell out

Meghan Markle's magic effect continues to grow worldwide, after she landed fourth place in last year's Lyst fashion awards.

Her wedding day outfits caused huge spikes in search for both Givenchy and Stella McCartney.

Meanwhile her daytime looks have also inspired millions of shoppers to try a 'boat neck' or 'tuxedo dress'.

Incredibly, if Meghan wears a designer, that brand will on average see a +200% increase in search demand over the following week.

Meanwhile despite sister-in-law Kate Middleton being in the top 10 last year, the duchess has now dropped down to 16, in this year's report.

4. Cardi B

Number 4: Rapper Cardi B was the one of the most influential faces at Fashion Week this year, sitting front row next to Anna Wintour at Alexander Wang's presentation

Rapper Cardi B was the one of the most influential faces at Fashion Week this year, sitting front row next to Anna Wintour at Alexander Wang's presentation.

The new mother sent searches soaring with every designer she wore, from Christian Siriano to Jeremy Scott.

The Bodak Yellow star influences customers across all price points, and her support for FashionNova has helped supercharge searches for the affordable retailer.

Now a Reebok ambassador too, her first collection for FashionNova sold out in a day.

5. Beyoncé

Number 5: Beyonce is one of the most-followed stars on Instagram, boasting 120m followers, and came in at number five on the list

Queen Bey's custom Balmain yellow cropped BAK sweater worn at Coachella caused a 58 per cent rise in searches for Balmain hoodies

Queen Bey made headlines this year as the first ever black woman to headline at Coachella, and her outfit didn't go unnoticed.

The star's custom Balmain yellow cropped BAK sweater caused a 58 per cent rise in searches for Balmain hoodies.

Her pink suit from the viral 'Apes**t' video inspired a surge in pink suit searches over the summer.

The mother-of-three is one of the most-followed stars on Instagram, boasting 120m followers- on top of her talent.

6. Serena Williams

Number 6: Serena Williams's sporting outfits made the US Open a huge fashion moment this year and helped earn her a place in the top ten list

Serena Williams's sporting outfits made the US Open a huge fashion moment this year.

The French Tennis Federation caused outrage among women's rights groups when she was told she wasn't allowed to wear the custom-made black catsuit.

Her Off-White x Nike ensemble caused a surge in demand for black tennis outfits week on week and searches for 'black tennis skirts' and 'black tennis dresses' increased by 108%.

7. Chiara Ferragni

Number 7: A relatively unknown new entry is Italian influencer Chiara Ferragni, who boasts 15m followers, and who went viral after wearing three custom-made Dior dresses during her wedding to rapper Fedez

In September Italian Instagram influencer Chiara married rapper Fedez in three custom Dior dresses.

The lavish dresses for her 15m social media followers won her widespread media coverage along with her pictures trending online.

Following the coverage surrounding the big day, the net saw a 109% increase in searches for Dior the following week.

8. Blake Lively

During the promotional tour for movie A Simple Favor, her cream striped double-breasted two-piece by Ralph Lauren inspired over 4,000 searches for Ralph Lauren suits the following week (seen right)

Blake Lively has developed a penchant for statement suiting this year, and shoppers clearly approve.

During the promotional tour for movie A Simple Favor, her cream striped double-breasted two-piece by Ralph Lauren inspired over 4,000 searches for Ralph Lauren suits the following week.

9. Rihanna

Number 9: After being named last year's most powerful fashion influencer, Rihanna focused on growing her Fenty empire this year, launching beauty and lingerie alongside serving some serious fashion looks

Even the Gucci balaclava Rihanna wore at Coachella caused a 19 per cent spike in searches

After being named last year's most powerful fashion influencer, Rihanna focused on growing her Fenty empire this year, launching beauty and lingerie alongside serving some serious fashion looks.

The fuchsia Saint Laurent bubble dress she chose for her 30th birthday party promptly sold out worldwide.

Even the Gucci balaclava she wore at Coachella caused a 19 per cent spike in searches.

10. Ariana Grande

Number 10: With over 130m followers on Instagram it's fair to say that pop starlet Ariana Grande has an army of fans obsessed with her style

Searches for oversized hoodies are up 130 per cent year on year thanks to the Ariana effect

With over 130m followers on Instagram it's fair to say that Ariana has an army of fans obsessed with her style.

She has driven thousands of searches for brands including Reebok, Burberry and Vera Wang this year.

Searches for oversized hoodies are up 130 per cent year on year thanks to the Ariana effect.

====== 305 ========

SARAH SILVERMAN, 47, JOINS HER CO-STAR JOHN C. REILLY, 53, AT RALPH BREAKS THE INTERNET PREMIERE

They forged a tight-knit friendship after filming in the recording same booth for their latest movie.

And Sarah Silverman and John C. Reilly looked close when they attended the Ralph Breaks the Internet premiere at the Lighthouse Cinema, in Dublin on Wednesday.

The actress, 47, paired her quirky print blouse with a trendy orange corduroy skirt as she posed with her dapper co-star, 53, on the red carpet.



Sarah twirled to best show off her legs in her mini skirt and chunky heeled boots when she worked her magic on the red carpet among the stars of the movie.

John dressed to impress in his three piece suit, including tails, which he accessorised with a smart hat and a burgundy tie.

The pair reprised their roles as now-BFFs Ralph and Vanellope in the sequel to Disney's Wreck It Ralph animated movie.

Ralph Breaks the Internet takes place six years later when the duo discover a wi-fi router in their arcade which leads them on an exhilarating adventure.

Every angle: Sarah twirled to best show off her legs in her mini skirt and chunky heeled boots when she worked her magic on the red carpet

Stars for animated movies often record on their own and rarely meet their co-stars until they join forces to promote the film on the red carpet.

However, John was insistent on recording his lines in the same booth as his co-star Sarah to ensure they forged a close bond which they could bring to their characters.

During his Good Morning America appearance, the actor gushed over his co-star saying she was both 'fun' and 'creative'.

So sweet: They forged a tight-knit friendship after filming in the recording same booth for their latest movie

Looking fabulous: John dressed to impress in his three piece suit, including tails, which he accessorised with a smart hat and burgundy tie

He said: 'I figured if you're gonna work with someone as fun and as creative as Sarah Silverman, why not have them in the room there with you?

'A lot of the time actors go in for animated movies they're just alone, they're playing someone's best friend but they never lay eyes on them, and I thought, "We gotta be in the room together so we can find stuff and improvise".

'Sarah and I definitely did a lot for this movie, so I think this movie has an extra soulful quality because we're actually in there looking at each other, talking to each other. We riffed like crazy!'

====== 306 ========

GWYNETH PALTROW SAYS APPLE MARTIN, 14, HAS HER EYES ON RUNNING HER $250 MILLION COMPANY GOOP

Her company Goop was valued at $250 million earlier in the year.

And now CEO Gwyneth Paltrow has revealed that her 14-year-old daughter, Apple, has her eyes on running the joint.

Speaking to Catt Sadler on her website, The Cattwalk, the 46-year-old said her first-born seemed to be heading in that direction.

Following in her mom's footsteps: Gwyneth Paltrow revealed on Wednesday that her 14-year-old daughter, Apple, had her eyes on running her $250 million company one day

'It's funny, Apple and I were talking about it yesterday, because I think she's probably gonna,' she said when asked if her kids, Apple and brother Moses, 12, would want to take-over the multi-million dollar brand.

'She seems to be headed towards entertainment, but she said, "Well, maybe then when I'm older, I'll run Goop". And I was like, "That would be great!".'

Gwyneth continued: 'I think they [her kids] want to probably pursue other stuff, but it would be amazing if they wanted to get involved with the family business.'

'It's funny, Apple and I were talking about it yesterday, because I think she's probably gonna,' she said when asked if her kids Apple (right) and brother Moses, 12, (left) would want to take-over the multi-million dollar brand (pictured on Tuesday in New York City)

And it's not the first time the newlywed has spoken about the possibility of Apple joining the company.

