STRICTLY COME DANCING: KEVIN CLIFTON SPARKS FEARS HE'S QUIT THE SHOW

Strictly Come Dancing pro Kevin Clifton has sparked fear among fans that he is quitting the show, after his 'best bits' appeared on sister show It Takes Two.

The 36-year-old pro's long list of celebrity partners were featured in the spin-off on Wednesday, sparking panic among viewers that he may be leaving the show.

It comes Kevin is riding high this series thanks to his partnership with broadcaster Stacey Dooley, with the pair wowing in Blackpool over the weekend with a show-stopping salsa.

Departing? Strictly Come Dancing pro Kevin Clifton has sparked fear among fans that he is quitting the show, after his 'best bits' appeared on sister show It Takes Two

In the video, Kevin also looked back on his partnerships with Susanna Reid (in 2013), Frankie Bridge (2014), Kellie Bright (2015), Louise Redknapp (2016) and Susan Calman (2017).

The British dancer noted that among his Strictly highlights were the Blackpool paso doble with Susanna, and the Argentine Tango with Louise which earned them their first tens.

He also touched on making to the final a staggering four times in the row, but is yet to lift the glitterball trophy.

Shocking: The 36-year-old dancer spoke about his celebrity partners on the show (above with Stacey Dooley), as he was 'incredibly grateful' to be a part of the show

Throwback: Going back to his first series, Kevin spoke fondly about dancing with Good Morning Britain's Susanna Reid

Closing out the segment he said: 'We all would love to win the glitterball, but at the end of the day it's just about bringing jot and entertainment and fun. I'm ridiculously proud to be a part of Strictly, often I think like this is my job, it's something I'll be incredibly grateful for.'

Kevin's words quickly sparked fear among fans that his days on the Strictly dancefloor were numbered, with many writing on social media whether he was quitting the show.

One tweeted: 'I've come in halfway through this feature. Has Kevin died or something...? (I hope not obvs).

Another added: 'Uh oh, Kevin's CV is being shown. Does this mean he's leaving?'

Is he leaving? Kevin's words sparked fear among fans that his days on the Strictly dancefloor were numbered, with many writing on social media whether he was quitting the show

Kevin has stayed mum on fans' fears that he'll be leaving the show, though he did tweet several replies to fans saying how much they enjoyed the Strictly CV segment.

This year Kevin has been partnered with broadcaster Stacey Dooley, and thanks to their solid partnership the duo's scores have been going from strength to strength.

Of course Kevin's time on the show has never been short of heartache, after splitting from wife Karen earlier this year, just three years after the pair tied the knot.

But the pair have remained on good terms, as they have been dancing together on the show in professional group numbers.

====== 1964 ========

I'M A CELEB'S NICK KNOWLES ACCUSED OF 'LYING' ABOUT JAMMING ON A ROOF WITH BIFFY CLYRO

Biffy Clyro drummer Ben Johnston has laughed off Nick Knowles' stories about how the rock group 'jammed' with the DIY:SOS presenter on a roof in Soho, leading to Nick landing a record deal.

The TV presenter hadn't been in the I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! jungle for 24 hours before he began spinning yarns about impressing the group with his musical talents - a story that has since led to him topping the iTunes charts this week.

Ben called into Greg James' Breakfast Show on Radio 1 on Thursday morning to set the record straight.

Fast and loose: Biffy Clyro drummer Ben Johnston [R] has laughed off Nick Knowles' [L] stories about how the rock group 'jammed' with the DIY:SOS presenter on a roof in Soho, leading to Nick landing a record deal

After @MrNickKnowles claimed on #ImACeleb that @BiffyClyro started his music career we thought we'd find out their side of the story 🤔@gregjames spoke to Ben from the band and it turns out not all is as it seems... pic.twitter.com/ve5bLBTEIc — BBC Radio 1 (@BBCR1) November 22, 2018

He told the radio host: 'I think he was being a bit fast and loose with the truth there. It wasn’t quite the Kumbaya situation he made it out to be.'

He explained: 'We were at the same party in Soho after an awards ceremony and Nick bought a bottle of champagne. There might have a been a guitar there but I don’t know.

'I won’t say a bad word against him he’s a nice guy but it wasn’t quite like that.'

Greg then suggested Nick support Ben's band on their next tour, which Ben agreed was a good idea.

Star caller: Ben called into Greg James' Breakfast Show on Radio 1 on Thursday morning to set the record straight

Shock rise: The TV presenter hadn't been in the I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! jungle for 24 hours before he began spinning yarns about impressing the group with his musical talents - a story that has since led to him topping the iTunes charts this week

'Yeah he could put up and take down the stage with his DIY skills,' he joked.

Biffy Clyro seemed to encourage the rumours before Ben's appearance on Radio 1.

After Holly Willoughby and Declan Donnelly suggested the nation get '#BiffyClyroNotEmbarrassedTheyJammedWithNickKnowles' trending, the band were quick to tweet with the hashtag.

Nick originally dropped the band's name when he told campmate Emily Atack: 'I've always played, my brother's a really good musician and I've always played along with him and a couple of years ago.

His version: Ben [L] told Greg, 'I think he was being a bit fast and loose with the truth there. It wasn’t quite the Kumbaya situation he made it out to be' [pictured with bandmates Simon Neil and James Johnston]

Number one: Nick's song topped the iTunes download charts on Wednesday

'Somebody heard me, I was playing on a rooftop bar in Soho with some other bands... it was Biffy Clyro.

'Somebody from a record company saw me doing it and I got a phone call saying, "I'm from Universal, want to do an album?"'

While one breakfast show was doing it's bit to sabotage Nick's music career, another was championing it.

Chris Moyles spearheaded a campaign on Radio X to get crooner Nick in the charts, which lead to his single, Make You Feel My Love, overtaking the likes of Cheryl, Lady Gaga and P!nk on Wednesday.

Kind: Nick's generosity in giving autistic campmate Anne Hegerty, 60, his pillow in the jungle, also won him an army of new fans

When Nick was at the top of the charts on Wednesday, Cheryl was perched at number 11 on iTunes. P!nk sat at number two, while Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper's Shallow dropped down to position four after weeks of success.

But not everyone's a fan. Last year, Noel Gallagher slammed Nick's singing skills in an interview with Alan Carr's Chatty Man which aired on Christmas day.

He said: 'My delivery is better than that. I don't sound like I'm having a stroke when I'm singing it.'

Lagging behind: Cheryl currently sits at number 11 in the same chart despite lots of hype

Popular: Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper's Shallow has dropped down to position four after weeks of success

Joining in on the digs, boisterous Chatty Man host Alan, added: 'His delivery was less album, more audiobook.'

Of his move into singing, Nick told MailOnline last year: 'I used to be the guitarist at school in a band but it was never going to turn into a career.

'And then I started to do acting. That then led to TV work - mostly factual and news stuff. So I was busy trying to build a TV career.

'But with my TV work I went to Australia and Africa – and I took my guitar with me, to the ass-end of nowhere. I was always playing. It kept the wildlife awake.'

DIY make-up: Nick had an interesting look to promote his music back in 1996

Getting wiggy with it: A red hairpiece and backing dancers was all Nick needed back in the day

In his younger days, Nick also hosted gigs on Friday nights in one of the rooms of a local pub in London, when people leaving the West End shows would come and watch afterwards.

He continued: 'Music has always played a big part of my life,' he said. 'With DIY:SOS, we are always away on location. So I'd take my guitar and whoever's on location with me, I'll play for them. We have had some great nights.'

'I didn't seek this path, it found me really,' he said. 'I’m a story teller. I write scripts too. I have written a movie that toured around the world. These are all creative areas.

'It's a very British thing to stay in lanes. I got a tweet from a teacher about why I'm moving into music, and I was like "are you going to teach your students to only ever do one thing with their lives".'

His new single, Make You Feel My Love, he thinks compliments his deep voice, and 'raised eyebrows' because he'd chosen to cover an Adele track.

'Actually it was written by Bob Dylan,' he said. 'So it was written for a male voice.'

====== 1965 ========

LAUREN GOODGER UNVEILS HER X-RATED HOOK-UP WEBSITE

Lauren Goodger has unveiled her X-rated hook-up website called Lauren's Little Secret, which offers users naughty sex, uncensored photos and flirty messages with other members.

The TOWIE star, 32, took to her Instagram stories on Wednesday evening to promote her new dating business, she said: 'Something I've made for you... follow @laurenslittlesecretdating.' The Instagram account appears to have been deleted since.

Lauren attached a screenshot of the account, where it said: 'Looking for your own Little Secret? Then look no further...forget the small talk, hook up now! #DirtyLittleSecret,' followed by the website link.

Outrageous: Lauren Goodger has unveiled her X-rated hook-up website called Lauren's Little Secret, which offers users naughty sex, uncensored photos and flirty messages

On Lauren's Little Secret, it offers users the opportunity of 'no strings attached' hook-ups and to keep it secret with the business not appearing on their bank statements, say if they already have a partner.

The website reads: 'Welcome to Lauren’s Little Secret, a casual site for adult dating. If you’re a big fan of Lauren Goodger you will love it here!

'Have hot, casual hookups with flirty girls like Lauren. Whether you are looking for a babe or a girl with a banging bod, go on naughty sex dates here.

'Find a one night stand or a friends with benefits situation that will make your love life exciting. Join here and be one of Lauren’s little secrets.'

Saucy: The TOWIE star, 32, took to her Instagram stories on Wednesday evening to promote her new dating business

It continues: 'Connect with the thousands of hot single guys that want to go on dates and have fun with someone like you. Interact with singles on our community forums and find flirty meets near you!

'Become a paying VIP member to send and receive private messages from our sexy singles. Drool over uncensored, naughty photos and videos. Sign up to meet hot guys now!'

While the homepage finishes with: 'At Lauren’s Little Secret, we have dedicated customer support on hand to ensure your online space is safe and secure. Your personal details are never shared and you choose how much you want to share on your profile.

Lauren's Little Secret: On Lauren's Little Secret, it offers users the opportunity of 'no strings attached' hook-ups and to keep it secret with the business not appearing on their bank statements

'Opt in to become a VIP member and our site name won’t appear on your bank statements, keeping your online dating experience discreet. Join here to have casual fun.'

MailOnline has contacted Lauren's representative for comment.

According to The Sun, Lauren is reportedly working with dating website company Arnaze.

Promotion: Lauren attached a screenshot of the account to her Instagram stories on Wednesday evening, it now appears to have been deleted

With a source telling the publication: 'Lauren is always looking for ways to make some extra cash and she's convinced this project will earn her a fortune.'

After posting a screenshot of her new business venture, Lauren took to her Instagram stories to hit back at people 'complaining' over her posts.

She said: 'Some people are sooo bored and busy! Get off my s**t and running your mouth about what I post and if I'm getting pair or not! Everything I do is LEGIT and run by a team!

Hitting back: After posting a screenshot of her new business venture, Lauren took to her Instagram stories to hit back at people 'complaining' over her posts

'Stop busying yourself over things you know nothing about and I've had enough of someone trying complain - we know what we doing so F off!'

The website comes after Lauren revealed on Wednesday evening that she was launching her own dating business.

Taking to Instagram, the 32-year-old former TOWIE star - who recently split from ex-con boyfriend Joey Morrisson - joked that she was hoping to find a man for herself as well as her fans.

Lauren posted: 'Making my own dating app!!! Girls and guys keep eyes peeled! I'm going to find you (and me) love'.

New venture: The website comes after Lauren revealed on Wednesday evening that she was launching her own dating business

Criminal: The reality star was devastated when she split from her jailbird boyfriend Joey in July, following a two year romance conducted while he was behind bars

The reality star was devastated when she split from her jailbird boyfriend Joey in July, following a two year romance conducted while he was behind bars.

Joey was given a 16-year prison sentence for a violent offence, but was released after nine years.

After waiting for him, Lauren and Joey split close to his release date amid claims he sent a slew of x-rated snaps to other women from his prison cell.

Previously Lauren had dated Jake McLean from 2012 on and off but they parted ways for good in 2016, with her branding the romance 'toxic.'

Before this, Lauren had been engaged to TOWIE co-star Mark Wright, but they called off their engagement in May 2011, after just five months, but they had been dating for ten years beforehand.

Lost love: Lauren dated Jake McLean on-off for four years before announcing their split in 2016

====== 1966 ========

STRICTLY'S GIOVANNI PERNICE FURIOUS OVER FAYE TOZER CRITIQUE

They've been riding high near the top of the leaderboard with a slew of near-perfect scores.

But Strictly Come Dancing pro Giovanni Pernice couldn't hide his fury on Wednesday night, after Faye Tozer's dancing was criticised on spin-off It Takes Two.

Sitting in the audience while dance veteran Ian Waite offered his viewpoint, with his face turning to thunder when he suggested Faye needed to 'be careful' with her foot turns.

Raging: Strictly Come Dancing pro Giovanni Pernice couldn't hide his fury on Wednesday night, after Faye Tozer's dancing was criticised on spin-off It Takes Two

Ian joked from the offset that he would have to behave himself when critiquing Faye's recent training, as she and Giovanni are set to dance a waltz on Saturday.

He said: 'This is looking lovely. Gorgeous. Obviously I'm saying that because Giovanni's here,' leading to a small smile from the Italian pro.

Things started nicely enough, but Ian soon offered a more cutthroat view of the routine, suggesting that Faye be more aware of her foot turns when doing heel leads in the fluid dance.

He said: 'What I did notice here - be careful Faye - because sometimes you turn your foot out too much so you don't get your lovely heel leads in there.'

Views: The awkward moment came as pro Ian Waite was offering his critique on each of the couples

Explosive: As fellow Strictly pro Ian Waite offered his views on Giovanni and Faye's waltz training, leaving Giovanni furious when Faye was told she needed to 'be careful' with her feet

Immediately the camera cut to Giovanni who had a face to fill, showcasing his furious face while Faye laughed alongside him.

Trying to salvage the situation Ian quickly added: 'It's only some of them,' while Giovanni continued his angry expression.

It comes after Faye and Giovanni left viewers hot under the collar over the weekend with a sizzling paso doble, wowing the audience with the fiery routine in Blackpool's Tower Ballroom.

Getting into shape: Earlier in the show, Faye and Giovanni showed off their holding position, as they prepare to dance a waltz this Saturday

Complete with plenty of fire displays and bull fighting-esque movements, her performance left everyone struggling to catch their breath.

Darcy gushed: 'Beautiful strong delivery, dramatic attack but what you kept was that femininity and that was difficult, that is hard when the music is so powerful, and you have to keep that with the action of the movements, that extraordinary straight lift. Being passed around, really well controlled.'

Bruno added: 'I'm still steaming like a pressure cooker but I have to say the dynamic and structure of the dance was superb, every partner is different, but this was one was the paso dominatrix.'

This resulted in yet another high score from the duo, with 38 points out of 40.

Viewers at home were left equally gobsmacked by the sizzling performance with some taking to Twitter to express their excitement for the routine.

====== 1967 ========

CHRISTINE MCGUINNESS LOOKS CHEERFUL IN SKIN-TIGHT LEGGINGS AS SHE STROLLS AROUND CHESHIRE

She's had quite the turnaround this year, after affair rumours plagued her marriage to husband Paddy last spring.

But Christine McGuinness is certainly having a better second-half of 2018, as she was seen grinning from ear-to-ear whilst out and about in Wilmslow, Cheshire on Monday.

Full of beans after an apparently early morning workout, the model, 30, strolled along in a pair of figure-hugging leggings, which she wore with a pale pink sports jacket.

Happy lady: After an apparently early morning workout Christine McGuinness, 30, was seen grinning from ear-to-ear whilst out and about in Wilmslow, Cheshire on Monday

Christine's baby pink zip up top featured large, eye-catching wrist ties and a high-necked collar.

She added black trainers to the look, swinging a large leather Louis Vuitton purse by her side as she walked.

She wore her blonde locks tied up into a high ponytail, shielded her eyes with large dark shades and opted for a minimal make-up look.

Christine's outing comes after she previously spoke about her stunning frame, saying: 'I get asked about my workout regime, diet and lifestyle almost everyday.

Looking good: The model strolled along in a pair of figure-hugging leggings, which she wore with a pale pink sports jacket

Gorgeous: She added black trainers to the look, swinging a large leather Louis Vuitton purse by her side as she walked

'Whilst I'm honest, it's not easy with three young children, a busy life and very little sleep. I do remain positive.

'It takes time, hard work, commitment and dedication but it will be one of the best things you can do for yourself. I believe exercise is great for your inner self more than your outer self.

'Each and every body is beautiful but if you ask me about exercise I will always encourage and support the idea. Go for it every time, do it for you! I only wish someone would have encouraged me sooner', she added.

The blonde beauty married comedian and host Paddy in 2011 and they have three children together.

Stylish: She wore her blonde locks tied up into a high ponytail, shielded her eyes with large dark shades and opted for a minimal make-up look

In September, Christine was brought to tears on Loose Women, after her doting husband Paddy, 45, paid tribute to her in a touching video.

Appearing on the show to promote autism awareness, Christine was surprised with a special message from her TV presenter husband Paddy, who branded her an 'amazing wife' and 'fantastic mother' to their autistic twins.

Struggling to contain her emotions as she listened to the message, she responded: 'I have to say he’s amazing too.'

The tears flowed as she continued about the challenges of raising the couple's five-year-old twins, Leo and Penelope, explaining: 'I find it easy with the children, yes it’s challenging but I just managed it but he struggled.' The pair also share daughter Felicity, two.

====== 1968 ========

DAVINA MCCALL REVEALS THE SECRETS BEHIND HER INCREDIBLE RIPPED ABS

Davina McCall has revealed the secrets behind her envy-inducing figure in a first look on-set of her latest fitness DVD.

The gym-honed star, 51, shows off her rippling abs in a preview of her new workout Power Box and Tone.

Davina, who qualified as a personal trainer earlier this year, has shown off the fruits of her labour as she joins personal trainer Sarah Gorman in the exclusive clip.

She's done it again: Davina McCall, 51, revealed the secrets behind her incredible ripped abs in a first-look at her latest fitness DVD, Power Box and Tone

The mother-of-three has reigned as queen of the fitness charts since 2007 and Power Box and Tone.

It focuses on boxing-style movements with sections on cardio, strength and movement.

Davina said: 'I am so excited to bring you my new workout, Power Box and Tone. This program is so much fun you’re not even going to notice you’re getting fit.

She said: 'You’re going to be practicing boxing style movements to build strength, tone with some cardio thrown in to help build your fitness'

She's a pro: The mother-of-three has reigned as queen of the fitness charts since 2007 an

'It’s not as scary as it sounds, and all from the comfort of your own home, and no gloves necessary.'

She added: 'You’re going to be practicing boxing style movements to build strength, tone with some cardio thrown in to help build your fitness.

'When you’re ready to go hard turn up the tunes and do the full workout for some serious fat burning.

The star declared: 'I want to inspire other women that you can be fit and strong at any age.'

She said: 'It’s not as scary as it sounds, and all from the comfort of your own home, and no gloves necessary'

Davina: Power Box and Tone is available to pre-order and is available on DVD and Digital Download on December 24th

'And if you’re pushed for time the program is basically broken down into little blocks so you can just do as much or as little as you want and there’s also a really nice stretch to add to your workout to kind of calm your mind and body.

'Honestly, you’re going to feel all your tensions just disappear.'

Last month Davina told how she hopes her latest workout will inspire women of any age to get active.

She said: 'I have been that person who didn’t love working out, so I do understand how hard it can be.

'But if you’ve never tried anything like this, I would urge you to give it a go. It could be life changing.

'I want to inspire other women that you can be fit and strong at any age.'

Davina: Power Box and Tone is available to pre-order and is available on DVD and Digital Download on December 24th.

====== 1969 ========

KATIE PRICE ENJOYS WHOLESOME FAMILY DAY OUT WITH JETT AND BUNNY AT THE SWIMMING POOL

Katie Price appeared happy and healthy as she shared an image from a day at the swimming pool with her children Jett, five, and Bunny, four, on Thursday.

The mother-of-five, 40, who is said to have debts ranging from £250,000 to £500,000, shunned her ongoing financial and personal dramas for the wholesome display amid claims she could be made homeless at a court hearing in December.

Posing happily with the children she shares with ex Kieran Hayler, the former model, who is also mum to Harvey, 16, with ex Dwight Yorke, and Junior, 11, and Princess, 10, with Peter Andre, turned her back on the dramas for the day out.

Happy days: Katie Price appeared happy and healthy as she shared an image from a day at the swimming pool with her children Jett, five, and Bunny, four, on Thursday

Katie has been hitting headlines of late due to her personal dramas after months of excessive drinking and a number of drug scandals.

She was arrested for drink driving and faces homelessness due to her financial strife, which has caused shockwaves among friends and fans.

Seemingly determined to turn her life around, she was showing a more wholesome side as she joined her kids for the day out.

As well as they picture where she was joined by the kids, she also took to her stories to post images of the pair fresh from shooting down a waterslide.

Drama: The mother-of-five, 40, who is said to have debts ranging from £250,000 to £500,000, shunned her ongoing financial and personal dramas for the wholesome display amid claims she could be made homeless at a court hearing in December

Yay! As well as they picture where she was joined by the kids, she also took to her stories to post images of the pair fresh from shooting down a waterslide

Katie managed to escape bankruptcy for another month at the end of October but she could be made homeless at a court hearing in December.

The former glamour model — who was worth an estimated £45million — narrowly avoided being declared bankrupt in August, when she was given 12 weeks to come up with the money she owes to creditors.

Her lawyers came back to London's High Court at the end of October for a fresh hearing over how she will clear up a £22,000 debt with the taxman. Estimates over the Loose Women star's total debts have ranged from £250,000 to £500,000.

Katie's legal team stated, in October, she would meet with tax officials on November 16 - but further news has not been announced; nor whether she did or did not meet with them on Friday.

Sweet: Her tots were whizzing down the waterslide at the pool during a fun day out

My family: Posing happily with the children she shares with ex Kieran Hayler, the former model, who is also mum to Harvey, 16, with ex Dwight Yorke, and Junior, 11, and Princess, 10 (pictured), with Peter Andre, turned her back on the dramas for the day out

It is thought she will attempt to be enter into an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA), a formal alternative for indebted people wishing to avoid bankruptcy.

Katie is said to fear having to sell her West Sussex mansion if a trustee is brought in to sell off her possessions.

She is unlikely to be made homeless before Christmas due to rules allowing people living with children to appeal for a 12-month delay to losing their home.

In recent months, there have been reports the former model, a keen horsewoman, had been trying to sell off her pink horsebox and a number of her animals in a bid to reduce her mounting debts.

====== 1970 ========

JESS WRIGHT SIDES WITH 'STRONG AND BEAUTIFUL' VICKY PATTISON

She's currently on holiday with her pals in Dubai - and Jess Wright looked sensational on Thursday when she headed to Toro Toro restaurant at Grosvenor House hotel.

But the former TOWIE star, 33, still found time to show her allegiance to Vicky Pattison, 31, with a sweet picture, after it was revealed her love rat fiancé has been liking Jess's Instagram pictures, just days after 'cheating' on Vicky.

Jess shared a throwback picture of the girls backstage at Loose Women and she wrote: 'Love this human. Strong, beautiful and insanely hilarious with the biggest heart ever.'

Gorgeous: Jess Wright enjoyed a meal out at the Toro Toro restaurant at Grosvenor House hotel in Dubai before showing her allegiance to Vicky Pattison on social media

Close: Jess shared a throwback snap of herself with Vicky hours after it was revealed the ex Geordie Shore's fiancé John Noble had been liking Jess's pictures on Instagram

The night before, Jess showed off her toned figure and abs in a plunging cut-out floral dress, which had a daring slit at the front.

Accessorising her look, Jess wore a pair of strappy nude heels, a matching coloured Yves Saint Laurent clutch bag and a diamond cross necklace.

Jess styled her glossy brunette locks into a curly blow-dried hairdo, which she swept to one side away from her face, she added a slick of glamorous make-up.

The reality star's appearance comes after Vicky Pattison's fiancé John Noble went on a spree of liking several of her sizzling holiday snaps.

Racy display: John went on a spree of liking several of Jess's sizzling holiday snaps - just days after he was caught frolicking with other women on a lads' holiday in Dubai

Betrayal: Vicky was left devastated when her fiancé John was filmed looking intimate with a bevy of women during a trip to Dubai (pictured together in September 2017)

The love rat liked a photo of Jess in a plunging and ruffled black bikini top, with a pair of nude bottoms.

John also went on to hit the heart button on a picture of the brunette beauty in a plunging black sequinned bodycon dress.

It comes after Vicky was left devastated when her fiancé John was filmed looking intimate with a bevy of women during a trip to Dubai.

Stunning: The former TOWIE star, 33, showed off her toned figure and abs in a plunging cut-out floral dress, which had a daring slit at the front

Chill time: She's currently enjoying a luxurious vacation with her pals in the idyllic holiday location

Pals: Jess was joined by a friend, who looked chic in a black bardot dress with a gold chain belt, for the glamorous meal out

The Sun reported John grew close to a brunette named Supriya, a London estate agent, during his flirty night out without his fiancée.

Onlookers told the publication that John, also 31, had his arms around her waist on the dancefloor before inviting her over to his private booth.

Adding: 'They were kissing throughout the night at the White Club venue.' John was also linked to two other women on the same night.

Vicky was seen without her engagement ring hours after discovering her fiance's betrayal.

And so it comes as little surprise that Vicky broke down in tears while on stage at a body confidence event held at Hornchurch leisure centre in Essex, on Sunday.

The reality TV star struggled to maintain her emotions at the event, although it is not yet known what specifically triggered her emotions. It's believed Vicky and John have not officially split as of yet but she's clearly upset over his actions.

====== 1971 ========

LEONA LEWIS EXUDES WINTER CHIC IN FLUFFY WHITE COAT AT MACY'S THANKSGIVING DAY PARADE

She is the 2006 X Factor champion who has forged a career Stateside.

And Leona Lewis exuded winter chic as she attended the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York City on Thursday.

The Bleeding Love singer, 33, looked ready for the festive season in an angelic all-white ensemble, wrapping in the chill of the Big Apple in a furry white coat.

Festive magic: Leona Lewis exuded winter chic as she attended the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York City on Thursday

Adding a regal twist, she slipped on ivory leather knee-high boots and completed her ensemble with satin gloves.

The star showcased a glimpse of her lacy, beaded white dress, under her coat.

The star's blonde tresses were styled in an elegant half updo while her pretty features were enhanced with feline flicks of liner, fluttery lashes and a slick of peach lipstick.

Looking radiant as she stood atop a float shaped like a mallard duck, the star waved to her fans during the hotly-anticipated parade.

Since topping the US and UK charts with her second single Bleeding Love , Leona has gone on to become one of the most successful X Factor exports of all time.

Smile: The Bleeding Love singer, 33, looked ready for the festive season in an angelic all-white ensemble, wrapping in the chill of the Big Apple in a furry white coat

A Moment Like This: Adding a regal twist, she slipped on ivory leather knee-high boots and completed her ensemble with satin gloves

The stunning star delighted fans last month when she supported Ayda Field and joined Adam Lambert during the judges' houses round on The X Factor.

Talking ahead of her judging duties, Leona told MailOnline that despite being crowned X Factor champion in 2006, she previously clashed with Simon Cowell over some of her song choices.

Speaking about her time on the ITV primetime favourite, the Run singer confessed she and the music mogul didn't always see eye-to-eye on her song choices, after Simon joked that he always won out in the end.

Superstar: The star's blonde tresses were styled in an elegant half updo while her pretty features were enhanced with feline flicks of liner, fluttery lashes and a slick of peach lipstick

Radiant: Leona looked sensational as she waved to fans

In demand: The star oozed elegance in her gorgeous ensemble

She said: 'Please, I always win! No, you have to know when to pick your battles. There were definitely a few weeks I remember where Simon wanted me to do one song or another and I was like, 'No!'

'I remember there was one song they picked for me and there was all this weird production on it and I was like, 'No way, everything has to be stripped back'.

'Knowing your battles but also knowing when someone is right, that's just as important. It's hard for me because I'm very stubborn, but sometimes he was right! It was fun working with Simon but we certainly did have our battles!'

====== 1972 ========

TAMMY HEMBROW EXPOSES HER DERRIERE IN SKIMPY BOOTY SHORTS AT PUBLIC GYM

She previously raised eyebrows for doing beachside yoga in a G-string bikini.

And now Tammy Hembrow has completed a workout session wearing a pair of barely-there shorts, in a public gym on the Gold Coast.

No doubt giving patrons an eyeful, the 24-year-old proudly flaunted her fit physique and infamous derriere near the exercise equipment.

Would YOU workout in this? Tammy Hembrow raises eyebrows AGAIN by exposing her derriere in skimpy booty shorts while exercising in a public gym

The Instagram model purposely stood in front of a mirror as she twisted her frame to show off her posterior peeking through below her tiny shorts.

Peachy! The Instagram model purposely stood in front of a mirror as she twisted her frame to show off her 'peachy' posterior peeking through below her tiny shorts

Poll Would YOU wear Tammy's booty shorts to the gym? YES NO Would YOU wear Tammy's booty shorts to the gym? YES 446 votes

NO 899 votes Now share your opinion







Tammy was wearing a pair of her brand Saski Collection's Seamless Booty Shorts in grey, which are now sold out on her website.

The star's fit physique was evident in the skimpy outfit, which including a matching crop top that showed her busty cleavage.

It's believed Tammy did workout while wearing the outfit, as sweat was visible on the garments as she posed for the camera.

It's not the first time the Queensland beauty has opted to flash plenty of skin while working out in public.

Another day, another gym selfie! The fit mother-of-two regularly uploads photos and videos at the gym in cleavage-baring crop tops and cheeky shorts

The fit mother-of-two regularly uploads photos and videos at the gym in cleavage-baring crop tops and cheeky shorts.

In September she posted a racy photo bending over in the gym in very high-cut shorts to promote her free Tammy Fit fitness app.

Setting pulses racing! In September she posted a racy photo bending over in the gym in very high-cut shorts to promote her free Tammy Fit fitness app

Tammy shares two children - daughter Saskia, two, and son Wolf, three - with ex-partner Reece Hawkins, 24.

The fitness entrepreneur said she and Reece ended their relationship in June because they simply grew apart.

The couple were together for four years.

====== 1973 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: EXTRA CAMP VIEWERS IN STITCHES AS WOMAN PRETENDS TO TYPE

The I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! spin-off show has been a triumph so far.

And Extra Camp viewers were left in stitches on Wednesday night when a woman working in the Australian TV studio's gallery was spotted pretending to type behind Joe Swash.

As Joe spoke directly to camera, she was seen wriggling her fingers above the keyboard and moving her mouse at random.

Extra Camp viewers were left in stitches on Wednesday night when a woman working in the Australian TV studio's gallery behind Joe Swash was spotted pretending to type

As the camera panned back to Scarlett Moffatt and Joel Dommett in the studio, Andi Peters was heard exclaiming: 'Is that girl pretending to type?'

Guest Olivia Attwood declared: 'She definitely is! She's just doing that [moving her hands].

The studio erupted into laughter - and viewers at home were equally amused.

Faux typing: As Joe spoke directly to camera, she was seen wriggling her fingers above the keyboard and moving her mouse at random

Confused: As the camera panned back to Scarlett Moffatt and Joel Dommett in the studio, Andi Peters was heard exclaiming: 'Is that girl pretending to type?'

Fans took to Twitter to laugh about the scene, with one posting: 'That woman fake typing in the background though #ImACeleb #ExtraCamp'.

Another shared: 'That lady’s fake typing skills in Extra Camp are shocking whyyyy‍'.

A third said: 'Lmfao I'm almost certain @oliviajade_att just pointed out the woman fake typing in the background and I'm crying #ExtraCamp'.

Amusing: Fans took to Twitter to laugh about the scene, with one posting. 'That woman fake typing in the background though #ImACeleb #ExtraCamp'

Olivia's 'G-string' denim shorts didn't go unnoticed by her co-stars for the evening as presenter Joel took to his Instagram to tease her before going on-air.

Sharing a video panning over her outfit and then the torrential rain outside, the comedian, 32, said: 'Shortest shorts ever, look at the weather... really inappropriate!'

While fellow guest for the evening, Andi Peters, 48, quipped that her tiny shorts were a 'denim G-string', to which Olivia replied: 'They have gone right up there and all!'

Also during the same episode, Joel returned to his hosting duties following his freak on-set head injury.

====== 1974 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY 2018: HOLLY WILLOUGHBY'S MOST EXPENSIVE OUTFIT

She is known for her love of high street bargains, but on Wednesday Holly Willoughby surprised fans with her most expensive outfit yet.

The presenter wore clothing totalling almost £2,500 on last night's episode of I'm A Celebrity, thanks to a designer anorak to help her shelter from the jungle showers.

Mother-of-three Holly, who has been known to wear pieces from the likes of Miss Selfridge and Dorothy Perkins, wore top-to-toe designer, teaming her double denim ensemble with £250 'Nanette' hiking boots from British brand Grenson.

Her shirt, from trendy Parisian label Ba&sh, cost £165 while her Madewell skirt was a rather more purse-friendly £43.99.

Scroll down for video

Holly goes high-end! The star wore clothing totalling almost £2,500 on last night's episode of I'm A Celebrity, thanks to mix of designer clothing (pictured in a £165 shirt, from trendy Parisian label Ba&sh Paris)

Holly, pictured with co-host Dec, was later forced to throw on a designer anorak to help her shelter against the jungle showers. She is standing in for troubled host Ant McPartlin)

In total, the outfit came to £2,353.99 - almost as much as her first two jungle outfits put together.

Even before she jetted out to the Australian jungle, fans had noticed a dramatic shift in Holly's wardrobe choices from high street to high end on the set of This Morning.

In recent months the presenter, 37, has swapped high street bargains for pricey designer pieces by labels like Reiss, J Crew and Whistles with the help of her stylist Angie Smith.

Back in September, the mother-of-three wore a £280 dress from trendy Parisian label Sandro on ITV's This Morning, one of her most expensive ensembles yet costing more than seven times as much as some of her This Morning outfits.

Holly appears to have stepped up a gear in the style stakes since it was announced the star was to step in for Ant McPartlin for the latest series of I'm a Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here.

For her jungle debut, Holly paired some cut-off denim shorts with a black t-shirt and a pair of chunky Grenson boots which are fast becoming her jungle go-to (pictured here with Declan Donnelly, left, and John Barrowman, right)

Later on the show, Holly wore a more pared-back ensemble consisting of a light blue rain jacket teamed with a grey t-shirt. The presenter is known for her love of high street bargains

Speaking in September, celebrity stylist Lucas Armitage told Femail: 'I really have noticed a shift with Holly’s style; where we once saw high street steals we now see designer pieces.

'Holly has always thrown in the odd mid to higher end piece but now it seems her daily wardrobe is a high street free zone.

'For me this is a bit of a shame, I loved that she demonstrated how amazing our high street was.

'Of course we all know holly now earns equal amount to co-host Phillip Schofield, and has designers chomping at the bit to dress her; it’s hardly surprising she is embracing high end styling.'

I'm A Celebrity continues on weeknights at 9pm on ITV

====== 1975 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: JOHN BARROWMAN'S HUSBAND SCOTT GILL HINTS THE ACTOR WILL CLASH WITH NOEL EDMONDS

He's already expected to ruffle feathers when he finally arrives in camp on Thursday.

And John Barrowman's husband Scott Gill has hinted the larger-than-life actor will clash with new arrival Noel Edmonds on I'm A Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here, as he rang into spin-off Extra Camp on Wednesday night.

Speaking about his spouse, Scott hinted that the person most likely to rile up John is yet to enter the jungle, as Noel prepares to join the camp as their leader and Emperor.

At odds: John Barrowman's husband has hinted that the actor will clash with new arrival Noel Edmonds on I'm A Celebrity, as the presenter is set to enter the jungle on Thursday

Scott - who married John in 2013 after 20 years together - spoke to hosts Joel Dommett and Scarlett Moffatt about the Doctor Who star's time in camp so far, saying he's surprised how well he's taken to the camping side of things.

But the British architect then hinted that John will butt heads with Noel after he arrives in jungle, especially as the veteran presenter will expected to stir up the drama.

Asked whether there's anyone in camp that will irritate John, he said: 'Not yet. I think there may soon be.

'I don't know but I think he's really liking the balance of people in there, they're all meshing really well. When you throw something new into the mix it's always gonna stir, I don't know how he's gonna react to that.'

Controversial: John's husband Scott rang into sister show Extra Camp, where he hinted that the person most likely to irritate the Doctor Who star is yet to enter the jungle

Explosive: Fans will see Noel's dramatic arrival in the jungle on Thursday night, as he takes on the role of jungle emperor

Scott added: 'Noel's a big character, so there is the possibility they're gonna clash which makes for great telly! Sit back and see what happens.'

Fans will see Noel's dramatic arrival in the jungle on Thursday night, as he takes on the role of jungle emperor, pitting the other ten celebrities against each other as gladiators.

The 69-year-old legendary entertainer was confirmed as this year's late arrival on Tuesday, with bosses reportedly offering a £600,000 salary to sign him.

Glamorous: It comes as 2017 jungle champion Georgia Toffolo was on Thursday's This Morning to provide all the latest jungle gossip

It comes as 2017 jungle champion Georgia Toffolo was on Thursday's This Morning to provide all the latest jungle gossip.

The ex-Made In Chelsea star showed off her quirky sense of style in a silky cream ruffled blouse and gold snake necklace, teamed with skinny blue jeans and jeweled slippers.

With her blonde hair in effortless curls, Georgia showed off her pretty complexion in au naturelle makeup as she gave hosts Phillip Schofield and Rochelle Humes the I'm A Celebrity news.

====== 1976 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: EMILY ATACK GETS VERY GIDDY IN NOEL EDMONDS FIRST LOOK

His debut camp has been long-teased as part of an epic challenge.

And Noel Edmonds' arrival on I'm A Celebrity Get Me Out Here threw Emily Atack into a giddy tailspin, jumping for joy as she saw the veteran presenter in a preview for Thursday night's show.

Noel, 69, will make his jungle debut as an Emperor in a sensational gladiator-themed challenge featuring all ten campmates, and it remains to be seen whether his outspoken nature will cause tension in the so-far harmonious camp.

He's here! I'm A Celebrity fans have been given their first look at Noel Edmonds' arrival, as he is transformed into a Roman Emperor in a clip fore

In the clip, hosts Declan Donnelly and Holly Willoughby explained that the ten celebrities would become gladiators, competing against each other for the emperor's amusement.

With a dramatic flourish, and some trumpet fanfare, Noel made a sensational entrance in full emperor attire to a thunderous reception from his fellow campmates.

Among them was Inbetweeners' Emily Atack, who was utterly giddy with excitement as she recognised the entertainment stalwart.

Turning to Anne Hegerty she said: 'Oh my God it's Noel Edmonds!'

Thrilled: Joined by hosts Phillip Schofield and Holly Willoughby, the duo told the ten camp mates they would be gladiators competing in a special challenge

Over the moon: Emily Atack's reaction to Noel's arrival was a true picture, screaming with delight at seeing the veteran TV presenter

Clad in a Roman tunic, purple sash and gold leaf crown, Emperor Noel proudly addressed his subjects from a balcony, saying 'Hail!'

But he was also quick to joke about the torrential downpour as it battered the camp and its inhabitants, adding the words: '...and rain!'

It remains to be seen whether having Noel as their emperor will be greeted warmly by the celebrities, who have already spent several days living in the camp, with basic rations and no indoor plumbing.

Giddy: Turning to Anne Hegerty the comedy actress said: 'Oh my God it's Noel Edmonds!'

Shocked: The reaction from the other nine campmates ranged from shock to delight to bewilderment

After weeks of rumours that Noel was set to enter the jungle, his appearance was finally confirmed on Tuesday to plenty of fanfare, amid claims that he will earn a £600,000 salary for his appearance.

Since he was unveiled Noel has revealed he's been preparing for his time in the jungle by tucking into worms from his back garden.

The former 'Deal or No Deal' host told The Sun: 'There are now no worms in our garden, [they taste] exactly like what you'd expect.

'Empty kangaroo testicles I'm better with, so I hope they're emptied before. I've never seen reference to whether they are on not.'

The star also revealed he has pet names for his private parts but that he isn't prepared to go nude on screen because ITV aren't ready for 'Mr Happy and the twins'

Exciting: Noel certainly looked the part as he made his way out onto the Emperor's balcony, dressed in a tunic, purple sash and gold leaf crown

Noel, whose career took off in 1969 when he moved to BBC Radio 1 - boasts that he has a 'fantastic relationship with the British public' and is confident about his success in the jungle.

However, the former 'Top of the Pops' host has claimed if he does win, he will quit showbusiness because he wants a break from his long career.

He said: 'If they do vote me king I will never appear on television again. Fifty years on TV is long enough -- give us a break for Christ's sake. 'We've got enough problems with Brexit... Nexit? Now I'd be very happy to do that deal but on the terms I win the bloody thing.'

Proud: Addressing his subjects he said 'Hail...and rain!' as he joked about the torrential weather

He's here! Fans for their first glimpse of Noel arriving the jungle on Wednesday night, as he becomes the camp Emperor, immune from all domestic duties

Noel was unveiled as the final I'm A Celebrity campmate on Tuesday, amid claims he will take home a whopping £600,000 salary for his participation.

Speaking ahead of his appearance, the TV favourite revealed he had been approached to compete in Strictly Come Dancing, but insisted he steered clear from the offer due to the Strictly curse.

The infamous Strictly curse has previously seen contestants split from their long-term loves and embark on relationships with their dance partners, including most recently Seann Walsh, Katya Jones, Neil Jones and Rebecca Humphries.

I'm A Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here continues on Thursday 22nd November at 9pm on ITV.

====== 1977 ========

KATIE PIPER LOOKS CHIC IN PINSTRIPED DRESS BEFORE SLIPPING INTO A RED NUMBER AT RAF EVENT

She embraced the sparkle and sequins on Strictly Come Dancing.

So it's no surprise Katie Piper stunned in two outfits on arrival at The National Lottery's Thanks to You Campaign at the RAF Museum, in London on Wednesday.

The former Strictly Come Dancing contestant, 35, enhanced her hourglass shape in her pinstriped dress which was cinched at the waistline with a tie-front design.

Super in stripes: Katie Piper looked chic in a pinstriped dress before she slipped into a figure-hugging red number at RAF event, in London on Wednesday

An elegant pleated hem drew eyes to Katie's toned legs which she made appear even longer in her steep red heels.

The philanthropist later changed into a figure-hugging scarlet number which clung to every inch of her sensational shape.

Katie styled her second look differently as she wore her newly dyed brunette locks in a neat bun with only the wisps of her hair falling to frame her face.

The 35-year-old was at the RAF Museum in London today to mark the launch of hundreds of National Lottery-funded venues opening their doors to the public for free.

The National Lottery's campaign is aimed at saying 'Thank You' to all the people who have played the Lottery and helped fund the venues.

To receive free entry or the free offers, visitors need to show their National Lottery ticket during the week commencing 3 December at participating venues.

Katie, who visits the RAF Museum with her family, said: 'I think people forget that when they're buying a National Lottery ticket, they're helping to support great causes all over the UK, and hundreds of these are right on their doorstep.

'The Thanks To You campaign is a brilliant opportunity for people to explore their local National Lottery-funded venues and have a wonderful day out, just as we always do at the RAF Museum.'

Different looks: The philanthropist later changed into a figure-hugging scarlet number which clung to every inch of her sensational shape

What a look: The former Strictly Come Dancing contestant, 35, enhanced her hourglass shape in her pinstriped dress which was cinched at the waistline with a tie-front design

The reality star's appearance comes after she hailed Strictly Come Dancing as a 'mini achievement' despite her dance-floor nerves.

Katie revealed coping mechanisms for anxiety as she promoted her podcast Katie Piper's Extraordinary People, which aims to provide listeners with 'inner resilience'.

The Strictly star was booted off the BBC dancing show alongside her partner Gorka Márquez just three weeks into her journey.

Pretty woman! Katie styled her second look differently as she wore her newly-dyed brunette locks in a neat bun with only the wisps of her hair falling to frame her face

Stand out: The National Lottery's campaign says 'Thank You' to players for helping to raise around £30m every week for good causes

She detailed: 'It was really weird because ahead of Strictly, I did a one-woman show with a bit of ad-libbing.

'When I did Strictly, I thought 'I won't be nervous because I've spoken to an audience alone on stage', but during Week One, oh my God, I was so scared to go on that dancefloor. I'm used to working on my own so I kind of doubted myself.

'I looked at an interview by Ruth Langsford who had done Strictly the previous year and she said she was so nervous. Because of that, I thought 'well good, she does loads of live telly all the time' so maybe it's the unfamiliarity of it. At the beginning it wasn't my world and stuff.

Exciting: The reality star's appearance comes after she hailed Strictly Come Dancing as a 'mini achievement' despite her dance-floor nerves

Tough barriers: Katie revealed coping mechanisms for anxiety as she promoted her podcast Katie Piper's Extraordinary People, which aims to provide listeners with 'inner resilience'

'The ballroom floor is not your usual environment but then by Week Two I started to let go and enjoy it.'

Despite her nerves, Katie insisted her Strictly journey was a positive one and she revealed it was a milestone for her very own 'mini achievement'.

She elaborated: 'I think it was positive because I started journaling. I was working at my own level but I was moving forward. Strictly was a nice fond memory. It was my own mini achievement.'

Disappointment: The Strictly star was booted off the BBC dancing show alongside her partner Gorka Márquez just three weeks into her journey

====== 1978 ========

FIONA BRUCE, 54, IS SET TO BECOME THE FIRST FEMALE PRESENTER OF FLAGSHIP BBC SHOW QUESTION TIME

Fiona Bruce has been offered the job as the host of BBC One's Question Time, it's been reported.

The 54-year-old was said to have wowed show bosses during in a series of auditions held behind closed doors earlier this year, according to the Guardian.

The move would make the Antiques Roadshow presenter the first female host in the show's 40-year history.

Fiona Bruce, 54, has been offered the job as the host of BBC One's Question Time after wowing show bosses during private auditions, according to reports

The move would make the Antiques Roadshow presenter the first female host in the show's 40-year history

Rumours swirled as to who would take over the reins of the BBC flagship show after it was announced that David Dimbleby would be leaving at the end of the year.

The TV veteran, 80, has hosted the political panel show for 24 years after taking up the role in 1994.

It's thought Bruce, who sometimes hosts the BBC News at Six and BBC News at Ten bulletins, will replace him from the start of 2019.

But she would reportedly be forced to give up some of her other presenting roles if she accepted.

In September, a shortlist of potential replacements, which included Mishal Husain, Emily Maitlis and Kirsty Wark, was released, but Bruce's name wasn't listed.

David Dimbleby is leaving the show at the end of the year after 24 years at the helm

The pilot shows featured a live audience and had some politicians on the panel, but were not be broadcast to the public.

Announcing his retirement, David Dimbleby said: 'At the end of the year I will have been chairing Question Time for a quarter of a century and I have decided that this is the right moment to leave.

'It has been a privilege to work for a programme which brings voters face to face with those in power. I am grateful to the production teams and to the BBC who have made this possible.

Emily Maitlis and Kirsty Wark, pictured, were among presenters considered to replace Dimbleby as host of Question Time

Victoria Derbyshire and Mishal Husain were also thought to be on the BBC's shortlist

Fiona Bruce didn't even appear on bookmaker's list of replacements just two months ago

'It has been exhilarating following the twists and turns of British politics from John Major in 1994, through the Blair and Brown years to Cameron and May. I am not giving up broadcasting.

'Instead, after years in the studio, I now plan to return to my first love: reporting.'

During his BBC career Dimbleby presented political programmes such as Panorama and chaired many debates including the Party Leaders’ debates in the run up to General Elections since 2010.

He has been the BBC’s anchorman for all General Elections since 1979 and presented the broadcaster’s coverage of the first referendum in Europe, a role he repeated in 2016 for the BBC’s coverage of the EU Referendum.

====== 1979 ========

CAMILLA HOSTS RECEPTION FOR YOUNG WINNERS OF THE QUEEN’S COMMONWEALTH ESSAY PRIZE

The Duchess of Cornwall put on a stylish display as she hosted a reception for winners of the Queen's Commonwealth Essay Prize at Buckingham Palace on Thursday.

Camilla, 71, who is rarely seen wearing glasses, donned her spectacles to deliver a speech at the event on behalf of Her Majesty, who is a patron of the Royal Commonwealth Society.

The royal, who is vice patron of the society - a charity committed to improving the lives and prospects of Commonwealth citizens across the world - was joined by comedian and author David Walliams, who also took to the podium to deliver a speech.

Budding writers were tasked with penning an essay with ideas on how to use their cultural connections to make positive changes across the Commonwealth - and the winners were presented with awards by the Duchess on Thursday.

The Duchess of Cornwall put on a stylish display as she hosted The Queen's Commonwealth Essay Prize at Buckingham Palace on Thursday

Camilla looked chic in her coordinated ensemble, teaming a black top with a black and white striped skirt and court shoes.

Accessorising, the duchess completed her look with a pair of pearl earrings and a matching necklace, wearing her hair in its trademark sleek do.

Holding a speech during the reception for winners, Camilla praised their skills and efforts in sharing their experiences before handing out the prizes.

David Walliams was also present, holding a speech for the proud winners as he showed his support for the organisation

Camilla was pictured posing with with Floria Gu, Junior Runner Up, before handing her the award

Camilla was pictured posing with with Floria Gu, Junior Runner Up, before handing her the award.

Next up she praised Junior Winner Janine Shum, who was also given the special plaque, before they shook hands and posed together.

Finally she was seen chatting with Zahra Hussain, Senior Winner, before handing her the prize and posing for pictures with the thrilled winner.

The royal is the Vice Patron of the society, which is a charity committed to improving the lives and prospects of Commonwealth citizens across the world

Camilla, 71, wore a striped monochrome skirt and black blouse for the occasion as she made a speech on behalf of Her Majesty The Queen, who is the Patron of The Royal Commonwealth Society

Next up she praised Junior Winner Janine Shum, who was also given the special plaque before they posed together

David Walliams was also present, and delivered a speech in praise of the proud winners.

The engagement was a solo trip for Camilla, with husband Princes Charles - who marked his 70th birthday last week - attending a waste summit attended by the chef Hugh Fearnley Whittingstall, and the environment secretary Michael Gove.

The Duchess of Cornwall has had a busy week, rubbing shoulders with the stars as she attended a charity fashion show on Wednesday evening.

Camilla, who donned a striking black velvet dress with white embroidered detailing, met designer Julien Macdonald, who was showcasing his collection at Lancaster House in aid of the National Osteoporosis Society.

Finally she was seen chatting with Zahra Hussain, Senior Winner, before handing her the prize and posing for pictures with the thrilled winner

Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, Vice Patron of The Royal Commonwealth Society, on behalf of Her Majesty The Queen, Patron of The Royal Commonwealth Society, speaks to guests during a reception for winners of The Queen's Commonwealth Essay Competition

Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, Vice Patron of The Royal Commonwealth Society, on behalf of Her Majesty The Queen, Patron of The Royal Commonwealth Society, with Janine Shum

====== 1980 ========

EASTENDERS: ROGER GRIFFITHS FILMS FIRST SCENES AS HE RETURNS AS MITCH BAKER

It was revealed a week ago that actor Roger Griffiths would be reprising his role of Mitch Baker and returning to EastEnders.

And images from the set of the BBC soap have emerged of the actor shooting scenes with Danny Dyer, who plays Mick Carter.

In the shots, the pair are seen in a training cage, with the Walford Wanderers youth football club, kicking a ball around on the AstroTurf.

Behind the scenes: Roger Griffiths [L] has been seen on the set of EastEnders shooting scenes with Danny Dyer [R], who plays Mick Carter

The men are seen wrapped up against the cold weather, with Roger wearing a baseball cap as they watch the youngsters play.

The actors were seen looking straight-faced as they chatted together and kicked the ball to the children.

The character of Mick is currently locked up on the show - which films its episodes a few weeks in advance - wrongfully imprisoned for shooting Stuart Highway.

These scenes suggest he will be released sometime soon - perhaps in time for Christmas.

In the clink: The character of Mick is currently locked up on the show - which films its episodes a few weeks in advance - wrongfully imprisoned for shooting Stuart Highway

Playing ball: The actors were seen chatting together and kicked the ball to the children

The ex: Mitch, meanwhile, is Karen Taylor's ex-boyfriend and the father of Keegan, first appearing in March of this year

Home for the holidays? These scenes suggest he will be released sometime soon - perhaps in time for Christmas

Mitch, meanwhile, is Karen Taylor's ex-boyfriend and the father of Keegan, first appearing in March of this year.

His storyline saw him rekindling things with Karen and trying to forge a father/son bond with Keegan, but ended up skipping town having stolen money from the Murray family.

He did crop up again, but revealed on that visit that he was married to another woman - Marla.

She then showed up to inform Karen that she was not only Mitch's wife, but that she was also six months pregnant.

Troubled: Danny looked pensive as he walked along in the role of Mick

The plot thickens: Mitch's storyline saw him rekindling things with Karen and trying to forge a father/son bond with Keegan, but ended up skipping town having stolen money from the Murray family

Heated? The men looked straight-faced in the scenes

Watching on: In the shots, the pair are seen in a training cage, with the Walford Wanderers youth football club

Dad time: The men are seen kicking a ball around on the AstroTurf

Back to impress: It's reported that Mitch is returning to win over the Taylor family

Banged up: Mick seems to have found freedom once more

Thoughtful: Mick was seen presiding over the youth football match

Strolling along: The actor shot scenes alone, too, without Roger

It's reported that Mitch is returning to win over the Taylor family.

The actor said: 'It feels great to be returning to Albert Square and working with the wonderful cast and crew again, especially the fantastic Taylor family.

'I'm excited for the viewers to learn more about Mitch and see what trouble he gets himself into this time.'

Meanwhile, Shirley Carter and her daughter-in-law Linda will clash yet again in the coming days, as spoiler snaps show the feisty matriarch being dragged away by police.

The row comes after Shirley was left furious on Monday night when she discovered that Linda had turned her back on husband Mick while he is in jail.

At odds: EastEnders Shirley Carter and her daughter-in-law Linda will clash yet again in the coming days, as spoiler snaps show the feisty matriarch being dragged away by police

The pair had a furious row where Shirley (Linda Henry) vowed to get Mick released, even going as far as throwing Linda (Kellie Bright) out of the Queen Vic.

While it remains to be seen whether Shirley can succeed in getting her son released from prison, it seems she'll have a fight on her hands, as Linda chose to side with Stuart.

Of course viewers know that Stuart instigated the shooting by firing the gun at himself, framing Mick in the process and leading the Albert Square patriarch to be arrested and locked up.

Angry: Shirley is seen being restrained after returning to the Square vowing to get her son Mick released from prison

And actor Ricky Champ recently revealed that Stuart's tirade against the Carter clan won't be coming to an end anytime soon.

Speaking at the Inside Soap Awards last month he explained that fans could see Stuart try to seduce Linda in Mick's absence, after she cut all ties with her husband under false belief that he actually was the shooter.

He told The Sun: 'Mick and Linda are a partnership in every sense of the word. I am trying to break that up without a doubt.

Explosive: It came after Shirley made a sensational return to the Square earlier this week, as she raged at the news that Linda had cut all ties with Mick while he was in prison

'Stuart promised Mick in prison that he's going to take everything from him as he believes Mick took everything from him.

'I think there is a seed that was planted a good few years ago that never got ousted … He has a focus about him that's unnerving about him.'

As we come up to the festive season - a time full of everything but good tidings for EastEnders stars - it remains to be seen whether Stuart and the Carter clan will make it through Christmas Day alive.

EastEnders continues on Thursday 22nd November at 7:30pm on BBC One.

====== 1981 ========

NOEL EDMONDS CALLS LLOYDS BOSS A 'COCKROACH' AS HE ENTERS I'M A CELEBRITY JUNGLE

Noel Edmonds will use his I'm A Celebrity appearance to continue his guerrilla war with Lloyds Bank and supercharge a £60million legal claim against the lender.

The Deal or No Deal star, 69, is reportedly being paid £500,000 to go into the Australian jungle and said today that every 'cockroach' will remind him of Lloyds' boss Antonio Horta Osorio.

In a series of video recordings released today the jungle's new Emperor said Lloyds will 'have to pay up', adding: 'I am totally convinced at trial we will win.'

Explaining his motivation for going on the ITV show, Mr Edmonds took aim at Lloyds' chief executive.

He said: 'Hopefully I will stay in long enough that every time that I eat a cockroach millions of people will be thinking of Antonio Horta Osorio. And do you know what? I may even enjoy eating that cockroach.'

Noel Edmonds, the new I'm a Celebrity emperor, says if he eats cockroaches he'll be thinking of the Lloyds Bank boss he is pursuing for £60m

Mr Edmonds is starting legal actions and will use his TV appearance turn on Lloyds boss Antonio Horta Osorio (right)

He added: 'It's not going to do any harm to be in the jungle on ITV at peak time every single day for a few weeks'.

Mr Edmonds is seeking financial redress from the banking giant after falling victim to fraud by former staff at the Reading branch of HBOS, which Lloyds rescued at the height of the financial crisis.

Porn star Susie Best was paid for sex by bankers who committed a huge fraud that Mr Edmonds was a victim of

Employee Lynden Scourfield, who was jailed for 11 years in 2017, enjoyed luxury holidays, trips on banker accomplice David Mills' superyacht and sex with porn stars including escort Suzie Best.

Noel is pursuing Lloyds for losses allegedly suffered when his former business Unique Group was destroyed because of the fraud.

Jonathan Coad, solicitor for Mr Edmonds, on Thursday served Lloyds with a pre-case letter, needed to initiate formal proceedings which could begin as soon as December.

Mr Edmonds has suggested that Mr Horta Osorio knew about the misdeeds of staff at HBOS, and on Wednesday claimed that the bank boss 'wants to destroy me, he wants to crush me'.

He also said that other Lloyds board members are at risk of police action over the case.

'There are members of the board who are really worried about what is really going on and there are senior executives who don't want to have their collars felt. They don't won't to be implicated when the warrants start to arrive, and they will arrive,' he said.

For its part, Lloyds has rejected the basis of Mr Edmonds' claim.

A Lloyds spokesman said: 'We are still waiting for Mr Edmonds to file his legal claim. If he does file his claim, it will be contested.'

Mr Coad, of Keystone Law, said: 'I have never been involved in a case where so much meticulous effort has been invested by so many to professionals to prepare a claim.

'In this case we have had first to unpick a sophisticated fraud, and then piece it together using primarily documentary evidence, but also some key evidence from witnesses to what was going on at the time.'

Mr Edmonds admits his motivation to go into the Jungle is to hit Lloyds and he insists he'll win

Lynden Scourfield, David Mills and Michael Bancroft were all jailed for between 10 and 15 years for their 245million swindle, which allowed them to live a life of luxury

Earlier this year, Mr Edmonds secured a 'seven-figure' sum from specialist litigation funder Therium to bankroll the suit.

Therium, which helps fund lawsuits and then takes a portion of the damages if successful, is also behind a class action lawsuit against car giant Volkswagen over the emissions scandal.

The deal the TV star struck with the group also means he is insured against any costs orders that might be made against him.

Lloyds has set aside £100million for victims of the fraud at the hands of HBOS Reading staff between 2003 and 2007.

Corrupt financiers from the branch were jailed last year for the £245 million loans scam, which destroyed several businesses and saw the criminals squander the profits on high-end prostitutes and luxury holidays.

A spokesman for the bank said: 'We have received Mr Edmonds’ legal letter and we will review the contents before responding. We fully understand the anguish he feels at the failure of his businesses, but on the information we have seen so far we simply cannot agree that this is the result of actions taken by the former HBOS business.

'We have engaged with Mr Edmonds and we made determined efforts to reach a consensual solution through mediation in 2017, though this was not possible. We note that Mr Edmonds is now planning to formally file his legal claim next month. We are content for the matter to be considered by a court if he pursues his legal action. However we cannot allow ourselves to be pressed into paying out money without cause just because an individual uses their celebrity status to attack us.

'We continue to make good progress compensating the 72 customers impacted by the fraud at the HBOS Impaired Assets office based in Reading. We have now provided outcomes to 71 customers in the review and 64 of these offers have been accepted'.

====== 1982 ========

MAD MEN'S KIERNAN SHIPKA, 19, INSISTS SHE'S TOO BUSY TO DATE: 'WORK IN MY NUMBER ONE PRIORITY'

Kiernan Shipka doesn't have time to go on dates.

The 19-year-old actress stars as Sabrina Spellman in The Chilling Adventures of Sabrina - the Netflix series based on the comic book series of the same name - and admits her 'number one priority' is her work at the moment, so she's not actively seeking a romantic relationship.

In an interview with Seventeen magazine, she said of her hectic work schedule: 'I'll wrap on Saturday at 6am, so I'm pretty much useless on Saturday.

Work comes first! Kiernan Shipka, 19, doesn't have time to go on dates because 'work in my number one priority'; she poses for Seventeen magazine, on whose cover she stars

All grown up: The former Mad Men star also spoke about how she was attracted to the part of Sabrina in the Riverdale spin-off because of the show's 'feminist content'

'And then Sunday, I have to get all my stuff done for Monday. Occasionally, the cast can drive me out for a fun time but work is my number one priority right now.'

The former Mad Men star also spoke about how she was attracted to the part of Sabrina in the Riverdale spin-off because of the show's 'feminist content'.

Cover girl: The teen has been acting for years, and tells Seventeen magazine about her work

She explained: 'I gravitate toward feminist content because that's just who I am. But there was something so cool about this show being so feminist while still having this very separate fantastical element.

'It's sort of set in this timeless period where there aren't many references to pop culture or what's happening now or what happened in the past.

'But at the same [time], it's related to what's happening in many different ways and resonates on so many levels.'

Hit show: Kiernan (center) played Sally Draper on Mad Men for eight years

Kiernan says the best advice she has received is to always 'speak up' for yourself and to 'empower' other women in the industry.

She said: 'Stand up for yourself and be your best advocate. That's something that's so important and can be applied to any career. I've definitely learned to speak up when it's called for and to ask questions and to not be afraid to own it and just go for it. '

And being supportive of other women is always essential - essential! 'It's important to have conversations with other women. We are all in this together.'

====== 1983 ========

INSIDE MCFLY'S HARRY JUDD COSY WEST LONDON TERRACED HOME

He is one quarter of the boyband McFly, with an estimated net-worth of £1.2million.

And Harry Judd has certainly made his mark on his west London terraced house, which he shares with his wife Izzy and their two children, Lola, two, and son Kit, one.

It seems the 32-year-old drummer's children rule the roost in the Judd household, which comes complete with a personalised nursery, free-standing bath, modern kitchen- and plenty of toys.

Home, sweet home: Harry Judd has certainly made his west London terraced house a home with his wife Izzy and their two children, Lola, two, and son Kit, one

Harry's rock and roll lifestyle is world's away from his idyllic home, with the kitchen being the hub of the house.

The white brick wall, which runs throughout the property, enhances the traditional period features, while their children's drawings and illuminated quote of 'where we belong' adds a personalised touch.

The family can look out at the modern garden through its french door windows- making it a perfect perching spot for their two cats, Murphy and Morris.

Stylish: It seems the 32-year-old drummer's children rule the roost in the Judd household, which comes complete with a personalised nursery, free-standing bath and modern kitchen

Sweet: Harry's rock and roll lifestyle is world's away from the idyllic home, with the kitchen being the hub of the family house

Cosy: The white brick wall which runs throughout the property enhance its traditional period features, while their children's drawings and illuminated quote of 'where we belong' adds a personalised touch

Aww: The family can look out at the modern garden through the kitchen's french door windows- making it a perfect perching spot for their two cats, Murphy and Morris

Modern: Meanwhile, a pine wood island and glossy white cupboards give the open-plan kitchen/ dining room a sleek fee

Centre-point: The living room features an alcove, which holds their TV, while the decking outside houses their alfresco seating area

Meanwhile, a pine wood island and glossy white cupboards give the open-plan kitchen/ dining room a sleek feel.

The living room features an alcove, which holds their TV, while their teal L-shaped sofa and soft furnishings add texture and warmth.

Britain's Got Talent finalist Izzy has shared Instagram snaps gazing out at their plush garden, while playing her violin.

The simplistic and clean white paintwork continues throughout the property, with Harry often bathing the kids in a stunning free-standing bath, while the nursery is an 'up in the sky' theme.

It boasts cloud shelving, a hot-air balloon mobile and a cute star lamp.

Keeping the place tidy: The family live in a quiet residential road and aren't afraid to get stuck in with sweeping the leaves

The couple welcomed daughter, Lola in January 2016 after years of difficulty with IVF.

Harry then described the 'miracle' of the birth of their son Kit, who was born in August last year after being conceived naturally.

Violinist Izzy has also been open about the couple's difficulty to start a family, talking about them in her book Dare to Dream.

All about that bass: Harry has a mini drum kit in homage to his musical career

Soaking up the sun: The garden is the perfect place for a spot of sunbathing

Sportsman in the making! Their teal L-shaped sofa and soft furnishings add texture and warmth, with Kit enjoying watching the cricket from his high-chair

Feeling inspired: Britain's Got Talent finalist Izzy has shared Instagram snaps gazing out at their plush garden with wooden decking, while playing her violin

Idyllic: The kids love running around the grassy garden, which is complemented with an array of flowers and plants in raised beds

She said: 'Wanting a child and feeling pressure in the public eye is difficult. I remember one day I was wearing dungarees and someone asked me if I was pregnant. It's a natural thing - once you get married you have babies.

'Harry and I made the decision to be open about our story and what happened and most women who go through it are grateful to hear its not easy for everybody.

She added: 'I think with that you never want to think anything but this is going to happen for us so for me it was very important to believe and especially going into IVF your perspective is so important that it's not this awful experience and that it's positive.'

Time to relax: The couple's bedroom features a master bed with a huge panoramic TV taking centre-stage

Play-time: Books, soft blankets, toys and cars litter the kids' play-pen while a wall collage of framed prints and pictures add a sophisticated touch next to the kids' drawings

Lots of toys: Lola and Kit are spoilt for choice when it comes to playtime

Up, up and away: The kids' nursery is an 'up in the sky' theme and boasts cloud shelving, a hot air balloon mobile and a cute star lamp

Harry has fully embraced his domestic responsibilities, and previously admitted his life threatened to veer dangerously out of control prior to meeting Izzy.

Speaking on This Morning last year, while promoting new book Get Fit, Get Happy, the McFly drummer reflected on a spiralling descent into drug and alcohol abuse that began in his teens and escalated during the band’s riotous heyday.

‘I had a very happy childhood,’ he explained. ‘I can’t complain. I joined the band when I was 17. It was about 19 when things started to turn for me. I started to suffer with anxiety.

Family man: Harry has fully embraced his domestic responsibilities, and previously admitted his life threatened to veer dangerously out of control prior to meeting Izzy

‘I tried marijuana in the school holidays - you've got different forms, and I stumbled across the strongest form with my mates.’

Recalling his early days with the group, he added: ‘I remember the first night in the band house I was tentatively checking if they had ever smoked before.

‘I very quickly felt dependent on skunk. I remember growing up being told you can’t get hooked no it, but within a month that was it, that was me every night.’

Along with bandmates Danny Jones, Tom Fletcher and Dougie Poynter, Harry enjoyed prolonged success following the 2013 release of their debut single 5 Colours In Her Hair.

====== 1984 ========

THE MUMMY DIARIES: SVELTE BILLIE FAIERS' FIANCÉ GREG SHEPHERD CLAIMS SHE HAS A 'MUM TUM' IN JIBE

She often drops jaws with her sizzling bikini body.

So Billie Faiers' huge fan base will undoubtedly be left in shock after Wednesday night's episode of The Mummy Diaries after her fiancé Greg Shepherd teased her about her 'mum tum' during a joke argument.

As they embarked on a run together - an occurrence they admitted was rare - the duo became locked in a row after Greg made his comment, which he insisted was in response to Billie branding him 'jelly belly'.

Mum tum? Billie Faiers' huge fan base will undoubtedly be left in shock after Wednesday night's episode of The Mummy Diaries after her fiancé Greg Shepherd teased her about her 'mum tum' during a joke argument (pictured in May)

Billie and Greg have been throwing themselves into a workout plan ahead of their nuptials with the blonde beauty frequently displaying her stunning figure on social media - garnering thousands of likes and gushing comments.

Yet the parents to Nelly, four, and Arthur, one, revealed they turned their feisty attentions to their physiques in a recent argument.

During a family trip to Marbella as the couple headed on their run, Billie said to her beau: 'Anyway you, calling me mum tum the other day that's out of order!'

An affronted Greg then said: 'I was sitting here holding the baby all rolls hanging out and you went "Alright jelly belly" and I said "Alright mum tum!"'

Jelly belly? As they embarked on a run together - an occurrence they admitted was rare - the duo became locked in a row after Greg made his comment, which he insisted was in response to Billie branding him 'jelly belly'

Svelte: Billie and Greg have been throwing themselves into a workout plan ahead of their nuptials with the blonde beauty frequently displaying her stunning figure on social media - garnering thousands of likes and gushing comments

Work it out: During a family trip to Marbella as the couple headed on their run, Billie said to her beau: 'Anyway you, calling me mum tum the other day that's out of order!'

Adamant that was not her intention, she alleged she was using the Essex play on jealous, as she hit back: 'I was calling you jelly belly because you were all jealous.'

Greg grumbled: 'No I was sitting on the bed with all my fat rolls and you called me jelly belly so I called you mum tum so get over it. Eye for an eye!'

Following Nelly's birth, Billie revealed she did zero exercise to get back in to her famously stunning shape - which she now maintains.

The couple that work together... Greg grumbled: 'No I was sitting on the bed with all my fat rolls and you called me jelly belly so I called you mum tum so get over it. Eye for an eye!'

None?! Following Nelly's birth, Billie revealed she did zero exercise to get back in to her famously stunning shape - which she now maintains

Speaking to FEMAIL in 2015, the Essex-born star said: 'Nobody believes me when I say this but I honestly didn't really do anything. I don't go to the gym or work out.

'I do eat relatively healthily, my diet is quite good but that's not to say I'm strict with myself, I just eat what I want when I fancy it really. Also, I'm constantly running about after Nelly so I tend to be active and on my feet all day every day.'

In September, she discussed how she shaped up for her Hen Do: 'Leading up to the hen, I cut out carbs for a couple of weeks and drunk loads of really good juices. I juiced but I ate loads of little healthy bits in-between.'

====== 1985 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: EMILY ATACK AND SAIR KHAN BATHE IN THE LAKE

Bathing outside on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! has become something of a event ever since Myleene Klass' white bikini moment in 2006.

And Emily Atack upheld the show's tradition in Wednesday's episode, as she stripped off for a relaxing dip in the jungle creek.

The Inbetweeners star, 28, flaunted her curves in a plunging swimsuit as she joined Coronation Street actress Sair, 30, and X Factor's Fleur East.

Making a splash: Emily Atack looked sizzling as she enjoyed a dip in the creek in Wednesday's episode of I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!

Emily showcased her natural beauty, scraping her golden tresses into a simple up-do and went make-up free for her dip.

After their dip, the girls joined Rita Simons and Fleur East for a sunbathing session on one of the banks.

It wasn't long before Rita was ready for some entertainment, asking Emily to do some of her impressions.

Looking good: Coronation Street actress Sair Khan, 30, kept it cool in a green one-piece

Bikini babe: X Factor star Fleur East stunning in a simple navy bikini with a plunging top

Turning heads: The Inbetweeners star, 28, flaunted her curves in a plunging swimsuit

Sair started by doing her impression of Love Island's Dani Dyer, Emily soon followed it up with her version and all the girls laughed.

Talking in the Bush Telegraph, Rita said 'Emily is a very talented young lady, I just love impressions and accents.'

Rita did her Denise Van Outen impression and told the girls about the time she did it to Denise in person.

Stunning: Emily showcased her natural beauty, scraping her golden tresses into a simple up-do and went make-up free for her dip

Bold and bright: EastEnders star Rita Simons, 41, dazzled in a multi-coloured zig-zag two-piece

Here come all the girls: Sair and Rita later laid down for a sunbathing session

Emily then showed them her Ruth Langsford impression followed by Gemma Collins. Chat then turned to Gemma and her dramatic time in the Jungle.

Talking in the Bush Telegraph, Emily said 'Today was just glorious, this is what it's about.'

Later on, Nick and Emily went to see Kiosk Kev at the Outback Shack.

Enjoying that, girls? Emily and Fleur seemed to be in great spirits as they luxuriated in the water

Safety first: Fleur opted to wear a chic khaki hat to shield herself from the sun

Lolling: It wasn't long before Rita was ready for some entertainment, asking Emily to do some of her impressions

The question of the day was what percentage of adults felt that their school days were the best days of their lives – (a) 50 per cent or (b) 40 per cent.

Up for grabs was jam roly poly or sherbet dip and they plumped for jam roly poly. The camp said per cent and got it wrong as the answer was 50 per cent.

The celebrities were given alpaca neck for dinner. After dinner there was drama in camp as a python was spotted and was later removed by security.

Cheeky: Sair started by doing her impression of Love Island's Dani Dyer, Emily soon followed it up with her version and all the girls laughed

====== 1986 ========

BIG BROTHER HOUSE IS TORN DOWN JUST TWO WEEKS AFTER SHOW GETS AXED

The famous Big Brother house is being demolished, just two weeks after Cameron Cole emerged as the winner of the last-ever season.

The Elstree property - which has been the site for the series since its third season in 2002 - was overrun by diggers and bulldozers on Thursday, as plans got underway to tear it down.

Aerial snaps show the space that was once home to a catwalk, audience pit, press area and steps up to the front door of the house being ripped apart, looking barren and empty.

Bulldozed: The famous Big Brother house is being demolished, just two weeks after the show was cancelled

Parts of the building were in a skeletal state, with just scaffolding left over.

The garden was still in tact, with faux grass, sun loungers and a pool still in place, surely next on the list for the demolition experts.

The show - which first aired in the UK in 2000 - was originally shot at a house in Bow, London.

Unaware of how popular the show would be, Channel 4 - who broadcast the series at the time - had not acquired planning permission for more than two years, which is when it relocated to Elstree Studios, Borehamwood ahead of it's third season.

Gone! Rylan Clark Neal and Emma Willis will no longer step out on the famous entrance walkway to the house

Bare bones: Parts of the building were in a skeletal state, with just scaffolding left over

In the firing line: The garden was still in tact, with faux grass, sun loungers and a pool still in place, surely next on the list for the demolition experts

With the move came upped security, after a break-in took place in 2001.

The show was cancelled by Channel 4 in 2010, and aired its final celebrity, civilian and 'Ultimate' season. But a year later, Channel 5 relaunched it, at the same studios.

In 2016, a planning application to Hertsmere Borough Council hinted that production company Endemol would be extending the famously-cramped house.

Indeed, changes were made and demolition took place on the eviction set and interview studio, with alterations made to the main house and garden, actually making the outside space smaller for the housemates.

Long-time home: The Elstree property - which has been the site for the series since its third season in 2002 - was overrun by diggers and bulldozers on Thursday, as plans got underway to tear it down

The last victor: Cameron Cole emerged as the winner of the last-ever season on November 5

Harsh reality: Aerial snaps show the space that was once home to a catwalk, audience pit, press area and steps up to the front door of the house being ripped apart, looking barren and empty

While the demolition seems definitive, the prospect of whether the series will ever return is still up in the air.

This comes just a day after Rylan Clark Neal - the host of spin-off show Bit On The Side - told MailOnline how much he'll miss the series, which has, for years, returned in January with a celebrity edition.

'My brain just doesn't understand that it's not coming back. To me, I can't understand that I have presented it for the last time,' the 30-year-old lamented. 'It's going to be majorly missed.

Axed: The show was axed in the midst of its most recent season

Moving out: Items from the house were shipped out of the building

Can't believe it: Rylan has reiterated how upset the cancellation of Big Brother has left him

'And trust me, I am doing everything I can do in my power to get it back.'

To Rylan, the show was not just a job; after his stint on The X Factor in 2012 he entered CBB in January 2013 and won it.

Soon after, he was brought back to present BOTS for both the civilian and celebrity versions of the show, consequently meeting his now-husband Dan Neal, who was a housemate that summer in civilian BB.

'I can't imagine Big Brother not being around. It has shaped my life. I am really in a world of denial about this. I want it back. Many people do.'

Of Emma Willis - who presented the main show - he said: 'Emma is more of a realist that me. But I know she feels the same as I do. She's able to go "right, that's the last one" while I just can't believe that I've done my last episode and that's that'

Over... for now: Addressing the fact that January will be the first time in years that the show won't return for a season of Celebrity Big Brother - for which he presented the spin-off show Bit On The Side - the presenter, 30, said he is still in denial about it

'It will be missed': Rylan has not been shy about expressing his feelings about the cancellation of BB

Of Emma Willis - who presented the main show - he said: 'Emma is more of a realist that me. But I know she feels the same as I do. She's able to go "right, that's the last one" while I just can't believe that I've done my last episode and that's that.'

Despite dreading the New Year, which brings with it CBB-shaped hole, Rylan has teased there's exciting things in the pipeline for him; including a possible new TV project.

But Rylan admits even he's not in the know about whether it's definitely going ahead yet.

'It's waiting for the go ahead. You’ll have to wait and see,' he said coyly, before adding with candour: 'I genuinely do not know, I can't say anything more because I just actually can't!'

====== 1987 ========

I'M A CELEB'S JOHN BARROWMAN STEALS THE SHOW AS HE SLUT DROPS ACROSS THE BRIDGE

He has been pegged as an I'm A Celebrity favourite.

And John Barrowman further cemented his all-star status on Tuesday night's episode as he sent fans wild by performing a 'slut drop' as he crossed the famous jungle bridge to embark on his Bushtucker Trial.

The 51-year-old Desperate Housewives star teetered across the bridge before performing the famed dance move, after which Twitter was inundated with gushing comments in which fans claimed they were 'in tears and in love'.

Wow! John Barrowman further cemented his all-star status on Tuesday night's episode as he sent fans wild by performing a 'slut drop' as he crossed the famous jungle bridge to embark on his Bushtucker Trial

John has been captivating fans on the show after describing himself as a 'sci-fi gay icon', thanks to his role in Doctor Who and his excess of sexual innuendos.

As he strutted across the bridge with aplomb - seemingly hiding any concerns for the looming doom ahead - he made a bold statement as he dropped to the floor to perform the well-known dance move to his tickled audience.

Fans took to Twitter to voice their delight, with users writing: 'IMO @JohnBarrowman had this show won before it even started but that slut drop on the bridge may have just sealed the deal. He is precious...

'Did @JohnBarrowman seriously just 'Slut Drop' on the bridge, on his way to the Bushtucker Trial... Honestly like John Barrowman doing a slut drop on his way to a trial is an eternal mood... Loved the random slut drop that @JohnBarrowman did on the bridge on way to the trial...

Woo! The 51-year-old Desperate Housewives star teetered across the bridge before performing the famed dance move, after which Twitter was inundated with gushing comments in which fans claimed they were 'in tears and in love'

Happy days: John has been captivating fans on the show after describing himself as a 'sci-fi gay icon', thanks to his role in Doctor Who and his excess of sexual innuendos

WORK IT! He put on an incredible display as he ventured across the bridge in style

'john barrowman doing a slut drop has saved my entire 2018 #imaceleb2018... John Barrowman did a slut drop on the bridge, fave guy...

'Why can John Barrowman slut drop better than I can?... i am FINISHED john barrowman doing a slut drop in the middle of the bridge on the way to his bushtucker trial has sended me #imaceleb2018...

'@JohnBarrowman doing a slut drop on the bridge has me in tears! Actually the funniest man alive #ImACeleb.'

Happy days: John has been captivating fans on the show after describing himself as a 'sci-fi gay icon', thanks to his role in Doctor Who and his excess of sexual innuendos

Cheeky! He pulled off the saucy dance move in hilarious fashion

John's positive attitude and zany personality in the Oz has already won him legions of fans. And he scooped 10 stars in his first ever terrifying Bushtucker trial.

The entertainer boldly faced the adrenaline-fuelled Scary Rose trial, where he faced an array of underwater monsters, and emerged with the maximum 10 stars.

As the actor was given the dreaded news that he would follow in the footsteps of Emily Atack and Anne Hegerty and face a trial, he happily responded: 'I'm game.'

Happy days: The entertainer boldly faced the adrenaline-fuelled Scary Rose trial, where he faced an array of underwater monsters, and emerged with the maximum 10 stars

Proving the adrenaline was already pumping, later he added, 'I'm not scared, I'm excited. My nerves have gone up which is good. I'm ready to do something.'

'The big thing is the fear of not knowing. However that's the name of this game. You can't figure things out.'

Anne, 60, who won two stars in Tuesday's Monstrous Monoliths trial added 'we all feel good because it's John. Whatever it is he's going to smash it.'

====== 1988 ========

TOWIE'S CHLOE LEWIS SHOWCASES HER ENVIABLY-TONED BIKINI BODY IN CRIMSON TWO-PIECE

She is the TOWIE beauty who has fronted a number of modelling campaigns.

And Chloe Lewis looked smouldering in a bikini-clad Instagram snap on Thursday, while holidaying with Made In Chelsea's Rosie Fortescue in Antigua.

The TOWIE star, 27, flaunted her enviably-toned physique in a red triangle bikini as she posed up a storm on the sunbed.

Beach babe: Chloe Lewis looked smouldering as she posted a bikini-clad Instagram snap in a red two-piece on Thursday, while holidaying with Made In Chelsea's Rosie Fortescue in Antigua

Chloe flashed a hint of cleavage and her washboard abs in the halterneck top, while the skimpy matching bottoms showcased her lithe limbs.

Seductively posing with a hand on her black avaitors, the reality starlet complemented her swimwear with gold touches of jewellery.

She wore her brunette locks back in a tight bun and accentuated her natural beauty with a sun-kissed tan and bronzed make-up look.

Sun worshiper: She captioned the post: 'Frizzy bits & white bits. Take me back to the sun'.

She captioned the post: 'Frizzy bits & white bits. Take me back to the sun'.

Chloe has become a star since appearing on reality show, TOWIE, and has previously explained why her boyfriend Danny Flasher hasn't followed in her footsteps to become a cast member.

The brunette has refused to let her man join TOWIE following the demise of her relationship with former fellow co-star Jake Hall, who is now engaged and has a daughter with Missé Bequiri.

Speaking to This Morning hosts Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford, the starlet confessed that her stock broker beau has no interest to star on the show as he has a 'good job'.

Relaxation: Rosie also posted a snap from the pair's holiday where they took part in a spot of yoga on the beach

She shared: 'The show have asked me about him coming on, it's his choice he's got a good job [boyfriend who’s not on the show]'.

Proving their romance to be going from strength to strength, Chloe revealed in April that the pair had moved in together, telling the Daily Star:

'We are loved-up and happy and I'm living with him now.'

====== 1989 ========

HOLLY HAGAN AND SOPHIE KASAEI JOIN GEORDIE SHORE CO-STARS AT BOOTCAMP IN MARRAKECH

They have both undergone huge transformations since first starting out on MTV hit Geordie Shore when it first premiered on our screens in 2011.

And determined to maintain their new image, both Holly Hagan and Sophie Kasaei were seen working up a sweat, as they donned their gym gear to embark on a gruelling training session at Holistic Bootcamp in Marrakech.

The reality stars have jetted overseas, along with their co-stars, in a bid to put their bodies, and their minds, through their paces at the retreat which focuses on their fitness as well as their mental well-being.

Determined: Holly Hagan was seen working up a sweat, as she donned her gym gear to embark on a gruelling training session at Holistic Bootcamp in Marrakech

Holly appeared in high spirits despite the intense exercise session that saw her skipping, boxing and pulling on battle ropes.

She was also seen honing her abs as she performed a number of core exercises on a gym mat.

The blonde beauty was clad in her gym wear and paired together grey textured leggings with a busty black crop top that teased a look at her newly reduced assets.

Holly recently underwent breast reduction surgery that took her cup size from a FF to a DD cup. She first went under the knife at the age of 18 to boost her bust, but had shared her desires for a smaller chest in recent months, explaining she 'no longer wanted the attention' her larger breasts had brought her.

In good company: The reality star was joined by her BFF Sophie Kasaei, as well as her Geordie Shore co-stars Abbie Holborn and Nathan Henry

Revealing: The blonde beauty was clad in her gym wear and paired together grey textured leggings with a busty black crop top that teased a look at her newly reduced assets

Since having the surgery, Holly has said her boobs 'feel so much better'. She bid goodbye to her bigger bust on social media and declared it was time for a 'new chapter', after thanking her assets for 'bringing her joy and lots of money'.

Known for her buxom bust, Holly's tagline in the introduction of Geordie Shore has been, "I'm fake, I'm flirty and I've got doube F's", with the star joking she will now have to change it, following her surgery, to: 'I'm dangerous, I'm dirty and I've got double D's.'

Teasing a look at her new bust during her recent workout, Holly threw a low-cut white vest top over her revealing sports bra. She tied the top in a knot at the waist to leave her taut stomach firmly on display as she exercised.

Holly wore her blonde locks pinned back from her face into a high ponytail and she appeared to go make-up free for the workout.

Pulling out all the stops: Holly appeared in high spirits despite the intense exercise session that saw her skipping, boxing, performing a series of squats and pulling on battle ropes

Gruelling: Holly appeared in high spirits despite the intense exercise session that saw her skipping, boxing and pulling on battle ropes

Landing a punch: She was seen embarking on a boxing session with close pal Nathan

She was joined by her co-star and BFF Sophie Kasaei, who proudly flaunted the results of her recent two stone weight loss.

The brunette has dropped from a size 16 to a size 8, thanks to her hard efforts and recently opted to have a breast lift, as she claimed shedding the pounds had made her bust 'sag'.

Sophie highlighted her slender physique in all-black sportswear that teamed together a scooped fitted vest top and leggings that sat just below the knee and boasted white stripes along each leg.

She pulled her hair back into a loose ponytail and was seen flashing a smile mid-exercise as she battled with the heavy ropes during the group's circuit training.

Focused: Holly has become a fitness enthusiast following her transformation over the years

Packing a punch: Holly slipped into a pair of grey textured leggings, along with a black sports bra and a low-cut pink vest top

Hard at work: Sophie Kasaei was seen flaunting the results of her recent two stone weight loss as she boxed with Abbie Holborn

Fully prepared: Sophie highlighted her slender physique in all-black sportswear that teamed together a scooped fitted vest top and leggings that sat just below the knee

Speaking exclusively to MailOnline, Sophie insisted that it is hard to maintain her slimmed-down figure while filming for MTV hit Geordie Shore - due to the show's excessive partying.

'When I'm in Geordie Shore that's just a time where I have to accept I will put weight on. I have to admit it's not the healthiest thing for my weight to go up and down, but it's my job,' she said.

Although, she admits she is still conscious of making the right choices, adding: 'For the couple of weeks I'm filming, obviously I don't eat as much as I used to after a night out, I will get chicken thighs instead of a pizza or kebab.'

The nature of the show sees the cast drinking almost every night, with it often taking its toll on the Geordie Shore cast.

Weight battles: Speaking exclusively to MailOnline, Sophie insisted it is hard to maintain her slimmed-down figure while filming for Geordie Shore - due to the show's excessive partying.

She, Holly, Abbie and Nathan were seen raising a smile as they posed together following their workout in the sunshine

Go girl: Abbie was seen shaping her arms as she lifted a huge chess piece above her head, while sporting a monochrome gym outfit that highlighted her slender pins and bronzed frame

So much so, that Holly and Sophie were joined by their co-stars Nathan Henry and Abbie Holborn at the bootcamp.

Abbie was seen shaping her arms as she lifted a huge chess piece above her head, while sporting a monochrome gym outfit that highlighted her slender pins and bronzed frame.

Like Sophie and Holly, she too has favoured cosmetic work since making her debut on Geordie Shore last year in the show's 14th series, and has admitted she constantly finds herself in a 'battle not to go overboard' with it.

Abbie first went under the knife, aged 18, for a boob job and has since indulged in 'lip fillers, Botox jaw filler, chin filler, veneers and her eyebrows tattooed'.

Changing appearance: Since making her debut on Geordie Shore last year in the show's 14th series, Abbie admits she constantly finds herself in a 'battle not to go overboard' with sugery

Surgery: Abbie confessed that her role on Geordie Shore has swayed her decision to have more cosmetic surgery, as she immediately felt insecure around the other girls on the show

Pressure: Abbie has spoken candidly about her decision to go under the knife, admitting: 'I remember going into the [Geordie Shore] house and thinking, "Oh my god, the girls look so good," you feel so self-conscious'

She told The Sun: 'The annoying thing is, I get so many plastic surgery companies offering me procedures for free and it's hard to say no.'

Abbie confessed that her role on Geordie Shore has swayed her decision to have more cosmetic surgery, as she immediately felt insecure around the other girls on the show.

'I remember going into the house and thinking, "Oh my god, the girls look so good," I had nothing done. I had a small bit of lip filler and that was it.

'There was all this talk about what they had done and what they were going to get done and when you're in that environment it's really hard... you feel so self-conscious.'

Ab-tastic: Nathan, meanwhile, gave the girls a run for their money as he demonstrated his core fitness while flawlessly working his abs as he performed a series of crunches

Nathan, meanwhile, gave the girls a run for their money as he demonstrated his core fitness while flawlessly working his abs as he performed a series of crunches.

The Holistic Bootcamp retreat is a favourite among celebrities including Kerry Katona and TOWIE stars Gemma Collins and Yazmin Oukhellou, as it helps to beat anxiety and phobias. Its regime includes a mixture of exercise, mind therapy and meditation, mountain walks and watersports.

It helps to boost not only fitness but mental well-being too - an ethos championed by bootcamp co-owner Robert Hisee who claims, 'You can't train the body without the mind, they are one. You can't have one without the other.'

====== 1990 ========

APPRENTICE CANDIDATES DON'T KNOW MEANING OF THE WORD ‘PROVENANCE’

Viewers of last night's Apprentice were left astounded when three of the candidates admitted they didn't know the meaning of the word provenance.

Week eight saw the hopefuls head to Glasgow where Lord Sugar tasked them with with becoming art dealers, selecting a contemporary artist's work to sell at their very own gallery event.

To top up takings, teams must also make merchandise adorned with their chosen artist's work and the team that generates the most money from art commission and merchandise sales win.

The two groups were also instructed to meet with a high end client and find art to appeal specifically to them.

Viewers of last night's apprentice were left in shock when contestants Camilla Ainsworth, Khadija Kalifa and Sarah Ann Magson didn't know the meaning of the word provenance

Contestants Camilla Ainsworth, Khadija Kalifa and Sarah Ann Magson of team Collaborative went to meet with Gilad Tiefenbrun of Linn sound systems who was looking for pieces for his luxury showroom.

Explaining the brief he says: 'We're looking for a piece or pieces that reflect three pillars innovation, provenance and experience.'

This appeared to fall on deaf ears with the three candidates who were attempted to feedback the brief to Project Manager Jackie Fast and fellow team mate Daniel Elahi.

Team Collaborative were given a brief by their client of 'innovation, experience and provenance' which they tried to feedback to their teammates Jackie Fast and Daniel Elahi

Camilla was convinced that provenance referred to something that was provoking while Sarah associated it with the word province

Taking to Twitter viewers expressed their outrage over the candidates lack of knowledge

Explaining the requirements Sarah Ann says: 'They have three pillars; innovation, provenance and experience, that's what they're all about.'

Daniel then asks what their interpretation of that brief is.

Replying Camilla says: 'Innovation, that's obviously something innovative' adding 'I think it's like provenance so provoke?'

Sarah Ann adds: 'I thought provenance was in relation to the province that you're from.'

Meanwhile others admitted to googling the word, which refers to something's origin and its earliest history, with one man pointing out a spike in the search term during the episode

Jackie, who minored in fine art and once sold one of her own paintings for $20,000, ends the call by saying 'Ok so nobody knows.'

And viewers were equally horrified taking to Twitter to share their thoughts.

One wrote: ''Jesus wept - mind #Brexit if that's the future of business we're all screwed.'

Agreeing another added: 'Look I'm thick but I know what provenance is, if you don't forget being in the process.'

A third wrote: 'wonder if they are allowed to look up the meaning of provenance.'

Meanwhile others admitted to googling the word, which refers to something's origin and its history, with one man pointing out a spike in the search term during the episode.

Despite the confusion surrounding the brief team Collaborative took first place with its total commission of £3499.76.

Despite their struggles team Collaborative were the winners after Sir Alan Sugar learnt that they had made £3499.76 in comission

Meanwhile the opposite team Typhoon made £1,325. 49 seeing project manager Jasmine Kundra (pictured) become the eighth casualty of the board room

Meanwhile the opposite team Typhoon made £1,325. 49 seeing project manager Jasmine Kundra become the eighth casualty of the board room - and she didn't appear to take the news well.

Jasmine was seen pushing Sabrina Stocker - who was saved - away from her after she came to hug her.

'She said that she was sorry,' Jasmine revealed to MailOnline. 'But I felt she was disingenuous. I didn't believe her when she said it. But it's a competition after all.'

Jasmine muttered 'I'm sure it's genuine' in a sarcastic tone to Sabrina's apology. She was then seen shaking Tom Bunday's hand with very little enthusiasm before she turned away from the pair, refusing to watch them collect their suitcases and head back to the candidate house.

====== 1991 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: HOLLY WILLOUGHBY GETS SOAKED FROM TORRENTIAL RAIN IN THE AUSTRALIAN JUNGLE

She's been putting on a fierce fashion show each evening as she takes over pal Ant McPartlin's presenting duties.

Yet Holly Willoughby had to ditch her stylish ensembles for a more practical look as she attempted to hide from the torrential Australian rain in the I'm A Celebrity jungle on Wednesday.

Extra Camp presenter, Joe Swash, took to his Instagram to share a hilarious video of the This Morning host, 37, attempting to shelter from the downpour, captioned: '@hollywilloughby trying 2 get some cover from the rain!!!!' (sic)

Scroll down for video

Eek!: Holly Willoughby had to ditch her stylish ensembles for a more practical look as she attempted to hide from the torrential rain in the I'm A Celebrity jungle on Wednesday

In the footage, Holly could be seen crouching on one of the jungle's infamous bridges with a khaki green jacket on.

And despite using a clear umbrella to try and shelter herself from the downpour, the presenter and her blonde locks were drenched.

During the video, an amused Joe asked: 'Holly what you doing done there? Holly what you doing?'

Having fun?: Extra Camp presenter, Joe Swash, took to his Instagram to share a hilarious video of the This Morning host, 37, attempting to shelter from the downpour

Jungle chic: Despite using a clear umbrella to try and shelter herself from the downpour, the presenter and her blonde locks were drenched

To which a laughing and drenched Holly replied: 'I'm hiding!'

Joe's fans were quick to respond to the video and share their well wishes for the team.

One person said: 'Oh bless you Holly you're so funny x.' (sic)

Extra Camp: During the video, an amused Joe (far right) asked: 'Holly what you doing done there? Holly what you doing?'

A different user put: 'And she still manages to look stunning x.'

Another fan commented: '[Crying laughing emoji] Wonder what @schofe will make of this lol.'

While a different account added: 'When you go to Aus for some sun and it ends up being wetter than the UK.'

I'm A Celebrity continues on weeknights at 9pm on ITV.

====== 1992 ========

VICKY PATTISON PUTS ON A BRAVE FACE AT WINTER WONDERLAND AMID HEARTBREAK

She has been left heartbroken after her fiancé John Noble was filmed getting close to a bevy of beauties while on a lads' holiday to Dubai.

But Vicky Pattison put on a brave face as she marked the start of the festive season with a trip to London's Winter Wonderland on Wednesday - while fans spotted love rat John had liked Jess Wright's sizzling bikini snaps on Instagram.

John's latest antics will no doubt be a further blow to the television personality, 31, who broke down in tears earlier this week while speaking at a body confidence event.

Heartache: Vicky Pattison put on a brave face as she marked the start of the festive season with a trip to Winter Wonderland in London on Wednesday

Joined by Love Island's Olivia Buckland and Alex Bowen, Vicky cut a stylish figure in camouflage trousers and a tailored black coat.

She complemented the look with a white shirt, a simple black jumper and a baker boy hat.

The former Geordie Shore star wore her brunette hair in a loose ponytail and opted for a bronzed make-up look with a nude pink lip.

He's a fan! Meanwhile love rat John was spotted liking Jess Wright's sizzling bikini snaps on Instagram

Upsetting: John's latest antics will no doubt be a further blow to the television personality, 31, who broke down in tears earlier this week while speaking at a body confidence event

Brave face: Vicky cut a stylish figure in camouflage trousers and tailored black coat and smiled amid her heartache

Despite her romantic woes, Vicky appeared to enjoy her evening out with pals as she beamed for the cameras after indulging in mulled wine.

Meanwhile John, 30, liked TOWIE star's Jess Wright's latest Instagram snap as she soaked up the sun on a beach on her Dubai break.

The 33-year-old reality star flaunted every inch of her toned figure in a black and floral mismatched bikini, before slipping into a chic green two-piece.

Ring free: Vicky didn't appear to be wearing her engagement ring following her heartache

Gone: Vicky hasn't been sporting her ring ever since pictures emerged of John getting close to a series of mystery women in Dubai

Smiling through: Despite her difficult time of late, Vicky made sure not to let her romance woes get her down

She braved the cold in a pair of suede court heels and toted her essentials in a designer bag

Putting her best foot forward: The beauty showed no signs of heartache as she made the most of her time in London

It comes after Vicky was left devastated when her fiancé John was filmed looking intimate with a bevy of women during a trip to Dubai.

The Sun reported John grew close to a brunette named Supriya, a London estate agent, during his flirty night out without his fiancée.

Onlookers told the publication that John, also 31, had his arms around her waist on the dancefloor before inviting her over to his private booth.

Racy display: Meanwhile John, 30, liked TOWIE star's Jess Wright's latest Instagram snap as she soaked up the sun on a beach on her Dubai break

Celeb pals: Vicky spent the evening indulging in festive treats with Olivia Buckland and Alex Bowen

Adding: 'They were kissing throughout the night at the White Club venue.' John was also linked to two other women on the same night.

Vicky was seen without her engagement ring hours after discovering her fiance's betrayal.

And so it comes as little surprise that Vicky broke down in tears while on stage at a body confidence event held at Hornchurch leisure centre in Essex, on Sunday.

The reality TV star struggled to maintain her emotions at the event, although it is not yet known what specifically triggered her emotions. It's believed Vicky and John have not officially split as of yet but she's clearly upset over his actions.

====== 1993 ========

CHERYL LOOKS BEAUTIFUL AS SHE GETS BACK TO WORK AFTER X FACTOR CONTROVERSY

She's had a tough week with a negative reaction to her highly anticipation X Factor performance.

And Cheryl, 35, appeared to be putting all of that behind her on Wednesday when she got back to work, starting rehearsals in Manchester.

With a big smile on her face, the mother-of-one looked naturally beautiful as she stood as she posed for a picture which she posted on Instagram.

Bothered: Cheryl looked beautiful as she posed with her pals ahead of an upcoming performance at Hits Radio Live in Manchester on Sunday and posted it to Instagram

She wore a distressed denim jacket with short sleeves worn over a black sweater and jeans.

Her raven locks were layered and styled in soft curls which framed her pretty face.

The popstar is set to perform at Hits Radio Live on Sunday and joining her in the picture was her PA and BFF Lily England as well as Theo and Elizabeth McKenna).

Something to say: Cheryl hit back after her X Factor comeback performance garnered negative reviews due to its raunchy content and live vocals

Rise: Ofcom complaints about Cheryl's performance on Sunday TREBLED overnight after she defended her raunchy routine in an impassioned Twitter post on Tuesday

Hitting back: Cheryl said it's OK if people don't like her music, but felt like she had been unfairly criticised

Cheryl was criticised for performing a 'raunchy' routine on family friendly show, the X Factor, on Sunday, and her live vocals also didn't go down well with some of her fans.

But lots of people loved her first musical comeback in four years and were glad to see her back doing her thing on stage.

After becoming aware of the mixed reviews, Cheryl herself posted an impassioned message on Twitter on Tuesday, defending herself, after her performance garnered 45 Ofcom complaints.

She said that her single might not be to everyone's taste but that she had watched the performance back and loved it. Liam Payne's ex also urged people to be kinder.

On top of this, comedian Kathy Burke lay into her on social media on Wednesday when she suggested her 2003 ABH charge is to blame for her poor record sales.

Her words came just days after Cheryl said that bringing up the time she punched a toilet attendant when she was aged just 19, was boring and irrelevant.

Kathy, 54, had posted: Maybe if Cheryl hadn't punched that toilet attendant more people would buy her records', with a face palm emoji.

Rough times: Comedian Kathy Burke has risked the wrath of Cheryl after blaming her infamous 2003 ABH charge on her tepid record sales (pictured outside court in 2003)

====== 1994 ========

AMY CHILDS DEBUTS GLAMOROUS BLONDE MAKEOVER AS SHE STEPS OUT AFTER SHOCKING WITH WEIGHT LOSS

She shocked her fans with her one stone weight loss in 28 days after giving birth to her son just two months ago in September.

And Amy Childs decidedly overhauled her looks with a glamorous makeover which she debuted after she left a photo shoot with her stylist on Thursday.

The beauty conscious star, 28, ditched her brunette tresses when she opted for striking blonde highlights.

What a woman! Amy Childs debuted her glamorous blonde makeover as she stepped out after shocking fans with her one STONE weight loss in 28 days two months after giving birth

Amy elevated her height when she sashayed across the car park in her seasonal boots with vertiginous heels.

The mother-of-two proudly showed off her post-baby body in her loose-fitted leopard print blouse and skintight leggings after losing one stone in weight.

Amy caused a stir on social media when she shared a comparison snap showcasing her one stone weight loss and the secrets to shedding the pounds in 28 days.

Dramatically different: The beauty conscious star, 28, ditched her brunette tresses when she opted for striking blonde highlights (R)

Sensational style: The mother-of-two proudly showed off her post-baby body in her loose-fitted leopard print blouse and skintight leggings after losing one stone in weight

She had written: 'Can you believe the difference here is just a month?? I’ve managed 14 pound in ONLY 28 days.

'I’ve gone from being constantly exhausted, feeling bloated and really frumpy to full of energy again, back in my pre baby jeans and just all round healthier. @skinnycoffeeclub is just what I needed! #ad.'

Fans rushed to social media to hit out at the star with scathing comments about the 'unhealthy lifestyle' in the comments section.

Couple goals: The beauty conscious star decidedly overhauled her looks with a glamorous makeover which she debuted after she left a photo shoot with her stylist

They wrote: 'So bad that someone who many girls look Upto is promoting such an unhealthy lifestyle!! Coffee does not make you skinny! All it does is give you the shits which dehydrates you!! All that's needed is a balanced diet and exercise! Maybe promoting that instead of cashing in on a #ad.'

'Come on! You’re better than this..... Don’t just take the money & post about this c***! Surely you’ve got an agent who should be advising you - NOT a good example of ‘celebrity’ responsibility.'

'Shame on you for posting this Amy. Think before you post and the harm you may cause to today’s society. Imagine your daughter grown up and reading this and drinking coffee to lose an unhealthy amount of weight in a month. How would that make you feel seeing her do that to herself?'

What a difference: Amy caused a stir on social media when she shared a comparison snap showcasing her one stone weight loss and the secrets to shedding the pounds in 28 days

'It's not impossible to lose a stone in a month i've done it but not with this nonsense that celebs are feeding you. All these supplements are is a mixture of laxatives that help you shit more. It has nothing to do with healthy eating and exercise. I'm quire disappointed that so many celebs are promoting this crap.'

However, a number of fans rushed to Amy's defence as they praised the star for looking 'fantastic' and 'amazing'.

'Amy you don't need to lose owt hun your beautiful,' one fan wrote leading the troops.

'You're better than this!' The secret behind her figure didn't sit well with fans, who left raging comments slamming her for using her celeb status to promote an unhealthy lifestyle

'Amazing hunni,' another remarked. 'You look fantastic Amy.'

A spokesperson for Amy responded to the claims: 'Amy has been eating a healthy meal plan with Skinny Coffee.

'She has lost weight, has lots of energy and feels great. It's impossible for everyone to be positive about certain stories but this has really worked for Amy.'

It has been two months since Amy gave birth to her baby boy who she shares with boyfriend Ritchie.

The reality star confirmed the news she was expecting her second child in April — months after welcoming her daughter Polly with ex-boyfriend Bradley Wright.

Amy gave fans an insight into her relationship with the father of her newborn and she told OK! magazine despite being in love they are in no rush to marry.

Of her surprise pregnancy, she said: 'We did speak about it, but we didn't think it would happen so quickly. We're both really excited about it now though.'

Amy got excited over the close age gap between her two children as she enthused about becoming a mother for the second time.

She said: 'I absolutely love being a mum! I would never have thought I'd have two so close together – I'm crazy... it will only be 16 or 17 months since I gave birth to Polly.'

====== 1995 ========

WAYNE SLEEP, 70, SPARKS CONCERN AFTER 'SLURRING' ON GOOD MORNING BRITAIN

He's a firm favourite on the pantomime scene and will be returning to the stage in Aladdin this Christmas.

And Wayne Sleep was putting in an appearance on Good Morning Britain on Thursday to discuss his love of panto and his friendship with Freddie Mercury.

The 70-year-old former ballet dancer left viewers concerned, however, and they rushed to Twitter to ask whether he was OK due to his 'slurred' speech.

TV appearance: Wayne Sleep was putting in an appearance on Good Morning Britain on Thursday to discuss his love of panto and his friendship with Freddie Mercury - but sparked concern among viewers

Viewers at home expressed concern about Wayne, posting, 'Is Wayne Sleep ok? He’s slurring .....' and 'Hope Wayne Sleep is OK. He sounds a little bit slurry #gmb'.

Others posted: 'Is Wayne Sleep a bit tipsy this morning?? @GMB' and 'Wow Wayne Sleep seemed a bit tipsy this morning on #GMB I hope he’s alright'.

Fans throughoughly enjoyed the chat, however, with one branding a 'breath of fresh air'.

'@GMB @benshephard what a great interview with Wayne Sleep a breath of fresh air and makes a change from debates, Brexit , women empowerment etc etc etc', one tweet read.

Concern: The 70-year-old former ballet dancer left viewers concerned as they rushed to Twitter to ask whether he was OK and to point out his 'slurred' speech

In conversation: Wayne was chatting to Susanna Reid and Ben Shephard

MailOnline has contacted Wayne's representatives for comment.

The choreographer - who is playing the villain Abanazar in the Cambridge Arts Theatre's production of Aladdin this Christmas - chatted about his favourite roles.

He laughed: 'I enjoy playing roles that frighten children at the moment! What I do is I love panto.

Concerned: Viewers at home expressed concern about Wayne, posting, 'Is Wayne Sleep ok ? He’s slurring .....' and 'Hope Wayne Sleep is OK. He sounds a little bit slurry #gmb'

'I played the Childcatcher in Chitty Chitty Bang Bang and I got a penchant for frightening kids. But of course it’s tongue in cheek.'

Explaining his love for panto, Wayne said: 'There’s always been for the parents a little bit of a twink within the innuendo of a sentence but for the kids they never know what it is and you have to drive the story through.

'A lot of people ad-lib and do their own show in the middle of it and it’s rubbish. We want them to come back don’t we?

Panto king: The choreographer - who is playing the villain Abanazar in the Cambridge Arts Theatre's production of Aladdin this Christmas - chatted about his favourite roles

'But if something goes wrong, like I had a watch once and the watch fell off, we kept it in the show every night. Anything that goes wrong that works we keep in.'

Wayne spoke about his friendship with the late Freddie Mercury in the light of the new Queen biopic Bohemian Rhapsody.

He also sent his well-wishes for pal Noel Edmonds, who has just entered the I'm A Cebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! jungle.

====== 1996 ========

SUSANNA REID IS LEFT RED-FACED WHEN RICHARD ARNOLD MAKES FACE LIFT JIBE

She's known for her youthful good looks and stunning sense of style.

But Susanna Reid, 47, was dealt some serious shade on Good Morning Britain on Thursday when co-host Richard Arnold, 48, suggested she has had a face lift.

It all started when the panel discussed what is and isn't an acceptable present for someone to give their partner at Christmas.

Harsh! Susanna Reid was left red-faced on Good Morning Britain on Thursday when Richard Arnold made an outrageous suggestion that she's had a face lift

Ben Shephard, 43, argued he'd be perfectly happy to gift his wife a stapler and a packet of staples.

He then produced four staples and put them in Susanna's hand. But she wasn't impressed.

Susanna could be heard saying: 'What is going on?'

Debate: It all started when the panel discussed what is and isn't an acceptable present for someone to give their partner at Christmas and Ben Shephard gave Susanna four staples

Ben replied: 'I just think it's important to share the love, Susanna Reid. I am very generous with my love. I am from Essex'

Naughty: When Susanna spoke about him giving her a measly four staples, Richard Arnold said: 'They'll go with the ones in your neck'

Ben replied: 'I just think it's important to share the love, Susanna Reid. I am very generous with my love. I am from Essex.'

'Not very generous. I've just been given four staples.'

'They'll go with the ones in your neck,' Richard sat, leaving the panel reeling.

I don't feel like dancing: Susanna also interviewed Scissor Sisters singer Jake Shears, who spoke about a letter he received from the late David Bowie after he came to one of his shows

Mover and groover: Ballet dancer Wayne Sleep also appeared on the show

As Susanna was left red-faced for a minute, she chastised Richard telling him he was very naughty.

Seeing the error of his ways, he spluttered: 'She's had no work done.'

The Good Morning Britain social media team were obviously amused by the playful on-air spat as they posted a clip of the moment on Twitter on Thursday.

They captioned it with the words: 'Do you want some ice for that burn?'

====== 1997 ========

LOVE ISLAND'S GABBY ALLEN REVEALS MYLES STEPHENSON'S ENGAGEMENT PLANS

Love Island's Gabby Allen spilled all about her engagement plans, diamond ring shapes and buying a house with Rak-Su's Myles Stephenson.

Despite being content with her romance, the reality star couldn't resist digging the heels in at her ex Marcel Somerville as she claimed being with him was 'madness'.

Gabby reiterated Myles was the only person she had ever thought about having in her life long-term and insisted talking about their future wasn't 'weird'.

Scroll down for video

Love (Island's) is in the air! Gabby Allen discussed her engagement plans, diamond ring shapes and buying a house with Rak-Su's Myles Stephenson... before she threw shade at ex Marcel

She said: 'I mean he’s the first person that I’ve really thought about having a long term relationship. We’re talking about future things too.

'It doesn’t feel weird talking about it, it’s not forced in any way. It’s not put on.

'I think there’s a lot of time, people used to say things about me and Marcel and I believe that was right at the time. But when you feel like this about someone, that’s when you know!'

Gabby, who attended the event with her hairdresser pal while Myles worked in Coventry, told all about their intimate engagement chats.

It's forever: Gabby reiterated Myles was the only person she had ever thought about having in her life long-term and insisted talking about their future wasn't 'weird' (London, October 2018)

The blonde bombshell explained the next natural step for the couple will be buying a house together next year followed by engagement.

Asked about diamond ring shapes, she said: 'You know what we’re actually talking about this at the moment because... It’s a long story! We’ve talked about what shape I like, what I don’t like.

'But there’s no rush. Next year’s the first step, we’re going to move in. I mean, we’re moved in together now but we’ll buy a house.'

Good pals: Gabby, who attended the event with her hairdresser pal while Myles worked in Coventry, told all about their intimate engagement chats

Gabby gushed over living with her beau as she hailed him an 'amazing cook' and incredibly tidy.

She said: 'He’s an amazing cook! I went away for the weekend come back and the house was spotless! Can’t believe how clean and tidy it is. He said that’s because you’re not here!'

Before Myles, Gabby had to piece back the fractured shards of her heart after she discovered her then-boyfriend Marcel had cheated on her.

Big plans: The blonde bombshell explained the next natural step for the couple will be buying a house together next year followed by engagement

The Gabby and Marcel love story fell for one another when they first laid their eyes on each other in the Mallorcan villa.

Love Island's Marcel got steamy between the sheets with another woman while the couple were away on their getaway in Mexico.

Gabby threw shade at her ex as she insisted being with him was 'madness' when she reflected on their failed romance.

Heartache: Before Myles, Gabby had to piece back the fractured shards of her heart after she discovered her then-boyfriend Marcel had cheated on her

She elaborated: 'Since I’ve been with Myles it feels like we’ve been together for ages! To think back to previous relationships, it’s like madness that you were ever with that person.'

Asked how to get over heartache, Gabby said: 'I think you just have to figure out why it ended and know your worth. Ex are an ex for a reason.'

Marcel has kept his new romance under wraps but he has revealed he is dating a new mystery woman since his split from Gabby.

====== 1998 ========

'A LOAD OF JACKSON POLLOCKS!' LORD SUGAR'S BARB ABOUT THE LOSING TEAM SUMMED UP HIS OWN PERFORMANCE

You had to feel sorry for Jasmine Kundra, this week's loser on The Apprentice.

How she was fired before Tom or Sabrina she'll never know, and Lord Sugar probably won't either. He tried several times to show Tom the door only to seemingly suddenly become hypnotised, presumably by Tom talking in that deadly drone.

As for Khadija for the second week running she did literally nothing (or at least nothing positive), only avoiding the boardroom by accidentally winning both tasks.

Still in! Lord Sugar tried several times to show Tom the door only to seemingly become hypnotised, presumably by Tom talking in that deadly drone during Wednesday's Apprentice

Jasmine thereby became the first person in the history of The Apprentice to sell a painting made out of Gummy Bears for £1600 and still end up being fired.

Lord Sugar seemed strangely unmoved by such a feat of salesmanship, as if people sold Gummy Bear painting for £1600 all the time.

The down side for Jasmine was being Project Manager of Typhoon who lost despite making a profit of £1,300 that would have won most weeks. Instead, they were beaten by Collaborative by the narrow margin of, um, over £2000.

Their victorious PM was the aptly named Jackie Fast.

Fired! Jasmine thereby became the first person in the history of The Apprentice to sell a painting made out of Gummy Bears for £1600 and still end up being fired

'I minored in Fine Art,' she'd informed her colleagues. 'I actually did a bit of Post-Modern Impressionism' (probably the most high brow term ever used on the show).

Having no idea what she was talking about, Camilla, Khadija, Sarah-Anne, and Daniel understandably gave her the job.

Surprisingly, Jackie was actually outshone by Daniel who had adopted a Method Acting approach to the task, changing his entire Look (white blazer and silk pocket hanky etc) to create a brand new persona. Even his hairstyle was different.

Art task: The down side for Jasmine was being Project Manager of Typhoon who lost despite making a profit of £1,300 that would have won most weeks. Instead, they were beaten by Collaborative by the narrow margin of, um, over £2000

It worked too, even though even he admitted his sales spiel was nonsense.

'This painting is almost a journey which continually moves,' he pontificated to one punter. 'And kind of tracks through a kind of emotional kind of play.'

Quite.

Jasmine had no one like Daniel. Instead, she had Sabrina and Tom.

In her element: Jackie won the role of PM after revealing she minored in Fine Art

'What is it about Sabrina that winds everybody up?' Lord Sugar asked Karren Brady.

HER VOICE, we all cried. It's like someone dragging their nails down a blackboard, and possibly even a white one.

Then there was also her behaviour. She was forever interfering and interrupting (in that voice).

Unable to cope with not being centre stage, at one point she abandoned her job making t-shirts, stopping a potential buyer looking at a £1600 piece of art, trying to sell him a tea towel instead by waving it in his face.

Dapper: Surprisingly, Jackie was actually outshone by Daniel who had adopted a Method Acting approach to the task, changing his entire Look

'She does what she wants doesn't she?' shrugged Sian, adding damningly: 'She's very calculating.'

Ouch.

Inevitably, Sabrina and Tom survived the boardroom by both blaming the team's failure on Jasmine, even though she'd sold the painting made out of Gummy Bears for £1600 and they had done...nothing.

Sugar seemed to be literally seconds away from telling Tom he was fired – 60 seconds to be precise.

'You are on your 14th minute!' he thundered, paraphrasing Andy Warhol's famous maxim about everyone getting 15 minutes in the limelight. 'What I can't ignore is that you keep on losing!'

Clash: Jasmine had no one like Daniel. Instead, she had Sabrina and Tom. In her element: Jackie won the role of PM after revealing she minored in Fine Art 'What is it about Sabrina that winds everybody up?' Lord Sugar asked Karren Brady

Jasmine seemed to have gained the upper hand when she reminded the boss that last week Tom had lost the urban gardening task despite running his own tree surgery business.

Now he had made no sales at all, even though his sister and father were artists, the latter professionally.

Tom's patter had been beyond abysmal, sidling up to one couple looking at an admittedly odd sculpture showing the rear end of a duck, and musing: 'I know what you're thinking. Naturally you look at this and think 'what is going on? Where is it? Where's it going? Where's it going to end?'

This was definitely one thing they weren't thinking.

Winners: Jackie and her team stormed to victory with a £2000 lead

Sugar demanded Tom explain how he could do so hopelessly in two tasks he should have excelled in.

'Yeah, this process is an opportunity for me to show you all the skills that I have learnt, that I can do stuff in a short time, and learn new things,' droned Tom, utterly untroubled by the fact he hadn't done any of these at all.

Even Sugar was appalled and pointed this out, but STILL didn't fire him.

Having failed to seal any corporate sales, Jackie had clinched victory entirely from merchandise like over-priced t-shirts and Tote bags.

Jasmine acknowledged she had under-estimated the importance of appealing to the general public.

But she vehemently denied she had chosen the wrong artist explaining with almost icy clarity she'd deliberately concentrated on the team's business client and their budget of £4000.

Losers: Jasmine seemed to have gained the upper hand when she reminded the boss that last week Tom had lost the urban gardening task despite running his own tree surgery business

'Yes. It's very corporate your demeanour!' snarled Sugar, seemingly/surprisingly viewing this as an insult not a compliment.

Sugar seemed convinced her selection had been a fatal mistake even though Sian had sold one expensive piece and Jasmine the Gummy Bears picture.

Ironically, Jasmine had ignored her personal preference: Sophie Morgan's line drawings, which she'd (rightly) decided were too subtle to sell very easily, and 'didn't fit the brief for the corporate client at all.'

Commendably she'd taken the attitude fortune favours the brave, declaring: 'If there's ever a time to go big or go home now's that time!'

It wasn't much consolation but even here she was right.

Bemused: Sugar demanded Tom explain how he could do so hopelessly in two tasks he should have excelled in

These were the 10 Funniest Moments in this week's episode.

1.'Do you think our approach to the clients should be different - because obviously they're Glaswegians?'

- Lancashire gal, Camilla Ainsworth, seemingly preparing for the worst as she goes North of the border, adding: 'I don't have any direct experience with Glaswegians', which we'd already gathered.

2. 'I have absolutely no experience of art!' - Sabrina, explaining why she couldn't be Team Leader on this task.

'I have an A-level in art!' countered Sian, which to be honest this was really the same thing.

Character: Sabrina seemed to clash with her teammates and came to the attention of Lord Sugar this week

3. 'I'm just going to throw it out there. I'm voting Jackie for Team Leader.'

- Daniel, having heard Sabrina and Sian and listened to Jackie reveal: 'I minored in Fine Art. I actually did a bit of Post-Modern Impressionism. My dream job would be an art dealer.' Jackie just shaded it.

4. 'That's amazing. That's one of the most inspiring things I've ever heard!'

- Daniel to the line drawing artist Sophie Morgan after she explained at the age of 18 she had been paralysed in a car crash and learnt the technique to draw beautiful sketches with her eyes closed.

5. 'For a lot of people the drawings would seem too minimal. I would be tempted not to go with them.'

- Daniel to Jackie one minute later, as soon as Sophie was out of earshot.

Eclectic: One of the pieces on art on offer for the punters included an odd sculpture showing the rear end of a duck

6. 'The human characters coming through are very challenging in the sense that they invite you in and cause you to question yourself and each other and your own interpretation.'

- Daniel, with one of his free-thinking interpretations of another painting.

7. 'We're looking for pieces of art that reflect three key pillars: innovation, provenance, and experience.'

- Collaborative's corporate client briefs the team on the style of painting that would best complement their up-market sound systems. To quote Khadija's reply: 'Lovely...'

8. 'Sabrina, your idea of art is putting a photo of your dinner on Instagram, is that right?'

- Lord Sugar with a frankly gratuitous takedown that Sabrina predictably took as a compliment.

Patter: 'There's a real deep meaning isn't there? To me, feelings and emotions are deep.' - Tom sweet-talks one of the artists with an analysis that was a bit rich coming from him

9. 'There's a real deep meaning isn't there? To me, feelings and emotions are deep.'

- Tom sweet-talks one of the artists with an analysis that was a bit rich coming from him...

10. 'Jackie, I hear you once sold one of your own artworks for $20, 000. I assume it was something typically understated - like a massive statue of yourself?!'

- Lord Sugar's obvious admiration for the feisty Canadian turns into blatant flirting – reciprocated when Ms Fast quipped back: 'Of course! Who wouldn't want that?!'

Lord Sugar can have his own life-size statue of Jackie in a few weeks when she'll surely be crowned the winner.

====== 1999 ========

STORM KEATING JOINS HUSBAND RONAN AT JULIEN MACDONALD FASHION SHOW

Julien Macdonald was showcasing his collection at Lancaster House in aid of the National Osteoporosis Society.

And Ronan and Storm Keating were showing their support, attending the prestigious event at Lancaster House on Wednesday evening.

The Boyzone star, 41, and 36-year-old Storm - formally known as Sharon - donned their glad rags for the event, also attended by the Duchess Of Cornwall.

Date night: Ronan and Storm Keating were attending the Julien Macdonald showcase in aid of the National Osteoporosis Society, held at Lancaster House on Wednesday evening

Storm was dressed to impress in a white dress with a sheer bodice and a flowing silk skirt.

The blonde beauty accessorised with a gold Louis Vuitton clutch and sparkling silver earrings.

She wore her long locks in tumbling curls and kept her make-up matte and simple for the occasion.

Smart: The Boyzone star, 41, and 36-year-old Storm - formally known as Sharon - donned their glad rags for the event, also attended by the Duchess Of Cornwall

Elegant attire: Storm was dressed to impress in a white dress with a sheer bodice and a flowing silk skirt

Mingling with royalty: The Boyzone singer was delighted to speak to the Duchess of Cornwall

Ronan was smartly dressed, looking dapper in a blue velvet suit complete with bow tie.

Camilla - who is the president of the National Osteoporosis Society - was without her husband Prince Charles, and happily posed for a photo with a group of Julien's models decked out in his daring designs.

The royal has been a the president of the society since 2001, following the deaths of her mother and grandmother as a result of the condition.

Royal guest: Julien Macdonald posed with Camilla, who is the president of the National Osteoporosis Society

Model moment: The star happily posed for a photo with a group of Julien's models decked out in his daring designs

Welsh designer Julien was awarded an OBE in the Queen's Honours list in 2006 for his services to fashion.

Meanwhile, in a recent interview with New Idea, Irish singer-turned-presenter Ronan said of his spouse: 'She's amazing. She's fantastic, she's understanding and she's strong. The kids love her so it's perfect'.

Ronan and Storm recently had their first child together, and Ronan's fourth, son Cooper, one.

Dapper: Alan was dressed to impress when he attended the prestigious event

Putting in an appearance: Dame Shirley Bassey was also in attendance at the event

And his older children are smitten with the new addition, too.

'It's been amazing to watch them. There is such a bond between all four of them,' The X Factor Australia judge gushed.

He says his son Jack even calls his baby brother 'adorable' and refers to the closeness the family feel as a 'completeness'.

Storm and Ronan were married in Ireland in 2015, the same year that the star divorced first wife Yvonne, and they welcomed Cooper in 2017.

====== 2000 ========

JENNIFER LOPEZ REVEALS THAT HER NEW MOVIE ROLE MIRRORS THE LIFE SHE MIGHT HAVE HAD

She's known as Jenny From The Block, a girl from in The Bronx borough of New York City who made her name on the world stage.

And Jennifer Lopez reveals that her new film, Second Act, gives a glimpse into what her life may have been like if she'd never become the superstar who goes by the moniker of J.Lo.

Speaking on The Project on Thursday evening, the 49-year-old said of her character in the movie, Mya: 'This movie hit home for me. I grew up much like Mya did.'

'This is me if I wound up staying in the Bronx': Jennifer Lopez reveals that her new movie role mirrors the life she might have had if she'd never become a superstar

'If it was me, if I wound staying in the Bronx. If I had a dream of working in the city, and I was smart and I was ambitious and talented but I just didn't have the right resume. It was easy to fall into her,' she concluded.

The romantic comedy tells the tale of a woman working in retail at a superstore chain who gets her big break.

Accidentally presenting the wrong resume during a job interview on ritzy Madison Avenue, she lands her dream role.

Speaking on The Project on Thursday evening, the 49-year-old said of her character in the movie, Mya: 'This movie hit home for me. I grew up much like Mya did'

Her start" 'If it was me, if I wound staying in the Bronx. If I had a dream of working in the city, and I was smart and I was ambitious and talented but I just didn't have the right resume' she said. Jennifer (right) is pictured in a scene from Second Act

Although it's under false presences, Mya proves that her street smarts are as important as book smarts as she excels in the job.

Jennifer grew up in the Bronx, and had a relatively modest background financially.

Her big break came in 1991 when she was hired as a backup dancer for boy band New Kids on their tour.

Back then: Jennifer grew up in the Bronx, and had a relatively modest background. Her big break came in In 1997, when she starred in the biopic of murdered singer Selena. Pictured in 1995

Big break: J.Lo launched her immensely successful pop career in 2001. Pictured in 2000

Shortly thereafter her profile was raised when she landed the role of a a Fly Girl dancer on the television program In Living Color.

In 1997, she reached star status starring in the biopic of murdered singer Selena, before launching her own immensely successful pop career in 2001.

J.Lo is dating baseball player Alex Rodriguez, 43, and the couple have been together since early 2017.

====== 2001 ========

THE MUMMY DIARIES: NANNY GAYNOR STEALS THE SHOW AS SHE TRIES TO CHASE AFTER A CHEETAH

Cheetahs may be the fastest land animal on earth but they proved to be no match for Nanny Gaynor on Wednesday's episode of The Mummy Diaries.

Gaynor, mum of Sam Faiers' partner Paul Knightley, joined the couple and their kids Paul, three, and Rosie, one, on a trip to Paradise Wildlife Park in Hertfordshire and in a bid to keep her beloved grandson happy, decided to chase a cheetah.

With little Paul in her arms, the high-spirited grandmother did her best to try and give her grandson the best view of the big cat shortly before she held a series of reptiles - claiming she wanted to kiss one of the creatures.

Super gran: Cheetahs may be the fastest land animal on earth but they proved to be no match for Nanny Gaynor on Wednesday's episode of The Mummy Diaries

As the cheetah dashed around his enclosure, Gaynor ran around outside too as Paul giggled away, desperate to see the animal up close. 'The energy your mum's got is just unreal,' an impressed Sam told big Paul.

'She's always been like that, she's always had so much energy and been fantastic with stuff,' he told her.

Shortly before, she held on to a series of reptiles in a separate enclosure where she said: 'You can feel tightening like muscle its cold and damp. I can feel his little cold body on my hands... I want to kiss it!'

Rivals: Gaynor, mum of Sam Faiers' partner Paul Knightley joined the couple and their two children Paul, three, and Rosie, one, on a trip to Paradise Wildlife Park in Hertfordshire and in a bid to keep her beloved grandson happy, decided to chase a cheetah

Off she goes! With little Paul in her arms, the high-spirited grandmother did her best to try and give her grandson the best view of the big cat

'She's just all action isn't she, no messing about. She wants Paul to be like her and not be scared of anything.'

'The cheetah comes out and Gaynor is going from left to right, so fast, it's actually quite impressive,' Sam told the camera.

'Without a doubt Gaynor and Paul had the best day ever, it is without doubt her favourite time when she's with baby Paul,' Sam gushed of her eldest's special bond with his grandmother.

Mother in law: 'The energy your mum's got is just unreal,' an impressed Sam told big Paul

Bond: 'She's just all action isn't she, no messing about. She wants Paul to be like her and not be scared of anything,' Paul explained of his mum

As one viewer summed up on Twitter: 'Every child needs a Nanny Gaynor in their life. She’s so loving and caring with a hint of crazy.'

Elsewhere in the episode, Billie Faiers' daughter Nelly, four was once again in the spotlight as she joined her mum and nanny Sue in jetting to Chicago for a campaign with Claire's Accessories.

Turning the camera on herself, Nelly appeared revitalised from having a nap on their long-haul flight as she introduced the camera to her nanny and her mum - who she hilariously called by her first name - before turning the camera on herself.

Cute! Elsewhere in the episode, Billie Faiers' daughter Nelly, four was once again in the spotlight as she joined her mum and nanny Sue in jetting to Chicago for a campaign with Claire's Accessories

Nelly, whose father is Billie's fiancé Greg Shepherd, has spent much of her life in the spotlight all the way from her mum's pregnancy on TOWIE to her current day.

Along with her TV work, she has a number of lucrative collaborations including the work they did with Claire's Accessories earlier this year.

As they landed in the US, the trio were filmed in the car after landing where the voice over said: 'After her 40 winks on the flight it seems Nelly is full of beans.'

As the camera turned to the tot, she said: 'Say hello to my nanny! And this is Billie and I'm called Nelly... How are you doing guys?!'

Happy days: Nelly, whose father is Billie's fiancé Greg Shepherd, has spent much of her life in the spotlight all the way from her mum's pregnancy on TOWIE to her current day

Happy days: Billie's sweet display with her family comes after the Faiers have made a triumphant return to our screens in the new series of The Mummy Diaires

Model moments: The duo were snapping away for the campaign in expert style

After which, Billie said on camera: 'I'm not quite sure Nelly understands we're practically on the other side of the world she kind of takes everything in her stride'.

The duo are then seen larking around on a photoshoot, with Nelly pulling her very best moves for the cameras while Billie looked on proudly.

Billie's sweet display with her family comes after the Faiers have made a triumphant return to our screens in the new series of The Mummy Diaires.

Sweet: After which, Billie said on camera: 'I'm not quite sure Nelly understands we're practically on the other side of the world she kind of takes everything in her stride'

Happy days: Nelly's father is Greg, who is also father to Billie's son Arthur

Billie and Greg along with their children Nelly, and Arthur, one, join Sam - who appears with beau Paul Knightley and their children Paul and Rosie - on the show, with the cameras documenting the girls' home life in Essex.

This series has been following the lead-up to Billie and Greg's idyllic wedding ceremony, with much focus being on their stag and hen parties.

Fans have seen Billie left disgruntled with Greg, after learning of his plans to have two stag dos - one in Marbella and one in Las Vegas - as well as a booze up with his mates the night before their wedding ceremony in the Maldives.

The Mummy Diaries airs at 9PM on ITVBe

Happy days! This series has been following the lead-up to Billie and Greg's idyllic wedding ceremony, with much focus being on their stag and hen parties

====== 2002 ========

IDRIS ELBA REVEALS HE'S BULKING UP TO COMPETE WITH THE ROCK AHEAD OF FAST AND THE FURIOUS SPIN-OFF

They're currently filming scenes around the United Kingdom for the star-studded and action-packed movie.

And Idris Elba took to his Instagram on Thursday to reveal that he is bulking up to compete with Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson for their The Fast and the Furious spin-off movie Hobbs And Shaw.

The Luther actor, 46, who is playing villain Brixton, shared a selfie of himself flexing his biceps.

Work it: Idris Elba took to his Instagram on Thursday to reveal that he is bulking up to compete with Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson for their The Fast and the Furious spin-off movie Hobbs And Shaw

He jokingly captioned the picture with: 'S**t... when you make a movie with @therock ... you gotta put some skin in the game ...Granted I have to work out a little more but...Ugggghhhhhhhhhhhhh!!!!! (That’s my game face sound).'

Idris took to the social media platform earlier this month to reveal his exciting news, he said: 'The name: BRIXTON. The record: UNDEFEATED. Excited to wreak havoc, hell and mayhem on @therock and @jasonstatham in #HobbsAndShaw as one of the most bada*s villains the Fast & Furious franchise has ever seen!

'Feels amazing to be working with @therock and @jasonstatham and to be joining the Fast & Furious family. Coming SUMMER 2019 #BRIXTON #TheConsequenceAgent #HellRaiser #BadMan @universalpictures @davidmleitch @hhgarcia41.'

So far, the cast and movie have been shooting scenes around the UK, including North Yorkshire and Glasgow.

Competitive: The Luther actor, 46, who is playing villain Brixton, took to the social media platform earlier this month to reveal he would be starring alongside the former wrestler, 46, (pictured)

The Fate of the Furious, or Fast 8, will be followed up with the spin-off movie depicting the relationship between Jason Statham's character Deckard and The Rock's Luke Hobbs.

Stars and stuntmen alike are busy keeping to tight filming schedules across the UK to ensure Hobbs and Shaw is ready to hit cinemas next July.

As many as 200 people descended on Glasgow to shoot scenes for the action-packed movie until October 29.

Exciting: He said: 'The name: BRIXTON. The record: UNDEFEATED. Excited to wreak havoc, hell and mayhem on @therock and @jasonstatham in #HobbsAndShaw.'

Busy: So far, the cast and movie have been shooting scenes around the UK, including North Yorkshire and Glasgow

The demand for the film pushed back the release of the ninth instalment of the Fast and Furious series. The action film is set for release on August 2, 2019.

The Crown's Vanessa Kirby will also star alongside Statham, The Rock and Elba in the fast-paced action movie.

Statham promised his 18 million followers there are 'big things to come' from the Hobbs and Shaw movie.

The hunk revealed he was excited to be working with his co-star The Rock once again as he joked he would have to tear him away from the pancake stack.

====== 2003 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: NOEL EDMONDS TRANSFORMS INTO ROMAN EMPEROR

He is gearing up to enter the Australian jungle as the 11th and final celebrity campmate.

And Noel Edmonds cemented his status as king of the jungle as he transformed into a Roman emperor for his dramatic entrance into the I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here! camp on Wednesday.

In a sneak peek at the 69-year-old television legend's challenge, the star rules over a Gladiator Amphitheatre as he prepares to watch his fellow celebs do battle.

The King is here: Noel Edmonds cemented his status as king of the jungle as he transformed into a Roman emperor for his dramatic entrance into the I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here! camp on Wednesday

Welcome to the jungle: In a sneak peek at the 69-year-old television legend's challenge, the star rules over a Gladiator Amphitheatre as he prepares to watch his fellow celebs do battle

Looking regal in a cream and purple silk toga, paired with a leather Pteruges, the star looked focused as he walked to his golden throne in the trailer.

Adding a jungle twist to his historical look, the star donned the traditional leather boots.

As he was surrounded by armed guards, a gold leaf crown was placed upon his head he roared, in the spirit of 2000 film Gladiator 'Are you not entertained?'

Earlier the bemused campmates had been gathered to receive the news that there was no public vote and that all of them would have to make their way to the Trial area for further instruction.

Regal: Looking regal in a cream and purple silk toga, paired with a leather Pteruges, the star looked focused as he walked to his golden throne in the trailer

Focus: As he was surrounded by armed guards, a gold leaf crown was placed upon his head he roared, in the spirit of 2000 film Gladiator 'Are you not entertained?'

Surprise! The star looked ready for the explosive challenge

As Holly said 'They have no idea who is waiting for them at the trial clearing' teasing Noel's spectacular entrance into the camp.

This comes as Noel revealed the rather unusual way he prepared for the grisly and creepy-crawly laden Bushtucker trials he will undertake in the jungle.

The presenting legend admitted that he ate worms from his garden to prepare himself for consuming Aussie delicacies including kangaroo testicles, fish eyes and mealworms.

Interesting: This comes as Noel revealed the rather unusual way he prepared for the grisly and creepy-crawly laden Bushtucker trials he will undertake in the jungle

Stomach churning: The presenting legend, 69, admitted that he ate worms from his garden to prepare himself for consuming Aussie delicacies including kangaroo testicles, fish eyes and mealworms (pictured in 1993)

The former 'Deal or No Deal' host told The Sun: 'There are now no worms in our garden, [they taste] exactly like what you'd expect.

'Empty kangaroo testicles I'm better with, so I hope they're emptied before. I've never seen reference to whether they are on not.'

The star also revealed he has pet names for his private parts but that he isn't prepared to go nude on screen because ITV aren't ready for 'Mr Happy and the twins'

Noel, whose career took off in 1969 when he moved to BBC Radio 1 - boasts that he has a 'fantastic relationship with the British public' and is confident about his success in the jungle.

Tasty: The former 'Deal or No Deal' host told The Sun : 'There are now no worms in our garden, [they taste] exactly like what you'd expect'

He added: 'Empty kangaroo testicles I'm better with, so I hope they're emptied before. I've never seen reference to whether they are on not' (pictured above last year's jungle queen Georgia Toffolo)

However, the former 'Top of the Pops' host has claimed if he does win, he will quit because he wants a break from his long career.

He said: 'If they do vote me king I will never appear on television again. Fifty years on TV is long enough -- give us a break for Christ's sake. 'We've got enough problems with Brexit... Nexit? Now I'd be very happy to do that deal but on the terms I win the bloody thing.'

Noel was unveiled as the final I'm A Celebrity campmate on Tuesday, amid claims he will take home a whopping £600,000 salary for his participation.

Speaking ahead of his appearance, the TV favourite revealed he had been approached to compete in Strictly Come Dancing, but insisted he steered clear from the offer due to the Strictly curse.

The infamous Strictly curse has previously seen contestants split from their long-term loves and embark on relationships with their dance partners, including most recently Seann Walsh, Katya Jones, Neil Jones and Rebecca Humphries.

====== 2004 ========

MEGAN MCKENNA SCREAMS AS SHE TACKLES TERRIFYING UNDERWATER TRIAL ON I'M A CELEBRITY: EXTRA CAMP

John Barrowman scooped a maximum 10 stars when he tackled the terrifying Scary Rose bushtucker trial.

And Megan McKenna looked terrified as she followed in the star's footsteps and braved the underwater trial on Wednesday's episode of I'm A Celebrity: Extra Camp.

The former TOWIE star, 26, looked apprehensive as she got suited up for the trial, as she was confronted with a underwater jungle shipwreck with a coveted 10 stars hidden inside.

Oh dear: Megan McKenna looked terrified as she followed in John Barrowman's footsteps and braved the underwater trial on Wednesday's episode of I'm A Celebrity: Extra Camp

Apprehensive: The former TOWIE star, 26, looked apprehensive as she got suited up for the trial, as she was confronted with a underwater jungle shipwreck with a coveted 10 stars hidden inside

The star faced an array of underwater monsters, including crocodiles, yabbies and eels as she bravely dove under the water to get the stars.

Screaming as she came face-to-face with a crocodile, the star was spurred on by host Joe Swash.

After a valiant effort and finding six stars, the treacherous waters proved too much for Megan who yelled: 'I'm a celebrity get me out of here.'

This comes as John scooped a mammoth 10 stars in his first ever terrifying Bushtucker trial.

Underwater: The star faced an array of underwater monsters, including crocodiles, yabbies and eels as she bravely dove under the water to get the stars

Oh no: Screaming as she came face-to-face with a crocodile, the star was spurred on by host Joe Swash

Brave: The star was focused as she opened boxes underwater

Horrifyingly, he was joined in the water by 20 crocodiles, five water pythons, 10 water dragons, 40 large eels, 10 mud crabs and 90 yabbies.

The final star was tied to a rope that a water python had wrapped itself around. With seconds to spare John finally spotted it and slowly untied the rope, releasing the star.

As the clock ticked down, he made it back to his air pocket.

Get out: After a valiant effort and finding six stars, the treacherous waters proved too much for Megan who yelled: 'I'm a celebrity get me out of here'

The star made his way back to dry land and triumphantly counted out his ten stars.

The star's delight was evident as he cackled while walking back to camp along the bridge.

After John's triumph in the Trial he said 'I've been feeling very emotional over the past couple of days but today has lifted my spirits and I am so happy that I am bringing them home 10 stars.'

I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! continues on Thursday November 22, ITV1 at 9:00pm.

====== 2005 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: JOHN BARROWMAN WINS TEN STARS IN TERRIFYING UNDERWATER BUSHTUCKER TRIAL

His positive attitude and zany personality in the Australian jungle has already won him legions of fans.

And John Barrowman scooped a mammoth 10 stars in his first ever terrifying Bushtucker trial on Wednesday night's episode of I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!

The entertainer, 51, boldly faced the adrenaline-fuelled Scary Rose trial, where he faced an array of underwater monsters, and emerged with the maximum 10 stars.

Scroll down for video

Superstar: John Barrowman scooped a mammoth 10 stars in his first ever terrifying Bushtucker trial on Wednesday night's episode of I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!

Well done: His positive attitude and zany personality in the Australian jungle has already won him legions of fans

As the actor was given the dreaded news that he would follow in the footsteps of Emily Atack and Anne Hegerty and face a trial, he happily responded: 'I'm game for it.'

Proving the adrenaline was already pumping, later he added, 'I'm not scared, I'm excited. My nerves have gone up which is good. I'm ready to do something.'

'The big thing is the fear of not knowing. However that's the name of this game. You can't figure things out.'

Anne, 60, who won two stars in Tuesday's Monstrous Monoliths trial added 'we all feel good because it's John. Whatever it is he's going to smash it.'

Game on: As the actor was given the dreaded news that he would follow in the footsteps of Emily Atack and Anne Hegerty and face a trial, he happily responded: 'I'm game for it'

Not scared: As the actor was given the dreaded news that he would follow in the footsteps of Emily Atack and Anne Hegerty and face a trial, he happily responded: 'I'm game for it'

Go for it: Confident in the star's can-do attitude Sair Khan and Harry Redknapp accompanied him to the trial where Harry said: 'If I was to put my money on anybody John you would be my man because you are a different class'

Nick Knowles, 56, also encouraged John saying 'if you don't and you come back with a couple don't be beating yourself up'.

He added: 'John's going to do his level best and that's all we can ask for and really important whether he brings back no stars or ten stars is to give him plenty of support because you feel like you're trying to do something for the team.

However John later confessed that he was feeling the pressure. 'I'm just going to do my damndest and my best to get all of the stars. No-one's eaten yet. it's up to me.'

Confident in the star's can-do attitude Sair Khan and Harry Redknapp accompanied him to the trial where Harry said: 'If I was to put my money on anybody John you would be my man because you are a different class.'

Glee: When asked why he thought he had been selected to do the trial, the star joked he suspected that his home may have been remortgaged to pay for all the votes that his husband had cast

Oh dear: Meeting up with hosts Declan Donnelly and Holly Willoughby in the Trials area, John had his game-face on as the duo explained what Scary Rose would entail

Feeling of dread: John was confronted with a wrecked boat in a pool, below the water was a jungle shipwreck and hidden inside was some very special treasure in the form of the coveted 10 stars - but would be joined by jungle critters

When asked why he thought he had been selected to do the trial, the star joked he suspected that his home may have been remortgaged to pay for all the votes that his husband had cast.

Meeting up with hosts Declan Donnelly and Holly Willoughby in the Trials area, John had his game-face on as the duo explained what Scary Rose would entail.

John was confronted with a wrecked boat in a pool, below the water was a jungle shipwreck and hidden inside was some very special treasure in the form of the coveted 10 stars.

The star had just ten minutes to find all of the treasure, with each star that he found worth one meal for camp.

Anticipation: The star had just ten minutes to find all of the treasure, with each star that he found worth one meal for camp

Oh dear: There were only two portholes on the deck in which he could catch his breath. And of course, he would be joined in the water by various jungle critters

There were only two portholes on the deck in which he could catch his breath. And of course, he would be joined in the water by various jungle critters.

'Come on I'm John Barrowman. I'm up for it' he shouted as he started the trial.

Oozing confidence the star waded into the water and shouted 'Let's do this.'

But to his horror, as he did so a Ranger brought in a large crocodile. the sight of which was too much for John who screamed 'ahhhh, f**k!'

The klaxon sounded and John confidently searched the bows of the ship looking for stars which were hidden in crates, barrels, boxes, crab pots and chests throughout the area. One was even hidden in a kettle.

'It's a little dark and there's eels and crabs and everything' he said as Holly and Dec encouraged him.

Croc shock: The klaxon sounded and John confidently searched the bows of the ship looking for stars which were hidden in crates, barrels, boxes, crab pots and chests throughout the area. One was even hidden in a kettle

Confident: 'It's a little dark and there's eels and crabs and everything' he said as Holly and Dec encouraged him

Here we go: He continued to search and find the stars, each time securing them in his bag as dropped stars wouldn't count towards his haul

Grimace: Horrifyingly, he was joined in the water by 20 crocodiles, five water pythons, 10 water dragons, 40 large eels, 10 mud crabs and 90 yabbies

He continued to search and find the stars, each time securing them in his bag as dropped stars wouldn't count towards his haul.

Horrifyingly, he was joined in the water by 20 crocodiles, five water pythons, 10 water dragons, 40 large eels, 10 mud crabs and 90 yabbies.

The final star was tied to a rope that a water python had wrapped itself around. With seconds to spare John finally spotted it and slowly untied the rope, releasing the star.

As the clock ticked down, he made it back to his air pocket.

The star made his way back to dry land and triumphantly counted out his ten stars.

Shock: The final star was tied to a rope that a water python had wrapped itself around. With seconds to spare John finally spotted it and slowly untied the rope, releasing the star

Speaking to camera, he said: 'I will admit that I was a little … its always scary when you do something like this because we're not used to confined spaces.

'It's not something I'd do by choice but I'd say hey lets go diving in a sunken ship with a bunch of animals and snakes... and you put a crocodile in. The eels – urgh. I don't know how Harry is a fan of jellied eels. I just don't like them.'

The whimsical star said he would return to camp and pretend that he hadn't won any stars because 'I want to see their faces and see who gets nippy with me.'

The star's delight was evident as he cackled while walking back to camp along the bridge.

After John's triumph in the Trial he said 'I've been feeling very emotional over the past couple of days but today has lifted my spirits and I am so happy that I am bringing them home 10 stars.'

You did it! As the clock ticked down, he made it back to his air pocket

Wow factor: The star made his way back to dry land and triumphantly counted out his ten stars

Maximum stars: The star couldn't contain his delight at the monster haul

He returned to camp looking sad, as he pretended that he hadn't been successful.

'He's acting' said Rita immediately.

John said: 'The trial was tough. I arrived and there was a huge swimming pool with a ship in it.

'Inside there were eels, pythons, shrimp, crabs, all of that and I was hanging on the tank and they said are you ready and I said ready and they said we've got a surprise for you and they put in a real large crocodile.'

'It was just awful . . . But I got 10 stars!' he shouted in jubilation.

Hmm: The whimsical star said he would return to camp and pretend that he hadn't won any stars because 'I want to see their faces and see who gets nippy with me'

Caught you: 'He's acting' said Rita immediately as Anne looked on

Celebrate: 'It was just awful . . . But I got 10 stars!' he shouted in jubilation

Support: The star was praised by followers for keeping a cool head under pressure

Sair said later: 'John is so sneaky building the story to the point where I was thinking maybe he didn't do so well and then all of a sudden he told me he got 10 stars and of course he did. I didn't doubt him for a second.'

And John said: 'When you go out you know there are nine people and they're relying on you for dinner and thank goodness I got dinner for everyone.'

Harry added 'John did great. I had no doubt he would do it though.'

The episode began with the former campmates from Snake Rock revelling in the newfound luxury of Croc Creek, having reunited with their fellow celebs.

Brave:Anne Hegerty candidly discussed the impact being autistic has had on her love life in the episode

Pals: John asked Anne if she had a partner and she replied 'No I don't. 'When I was working out that I was autistic it clarified a lot of things for me and one of those things was 'that's why I never seem to be able to make it work, that's why I always feel claustrophobic in a relationship'

Fleur revealed that Harry had given up his bed for her and John had given up his for Anne.

'I love my bed. I actually slept last night and John's given me his bed and Nick's given Anne his pillow and its lovely. Everyone's so so nice' Fleur said.

However, Anne proved not everything was good about the bed as she struggled to get out of it.

Laughing to herself, she tried to get herself off the structure.

Close bond: The hunk, who played Captain Jack Harkness in the show and spin-off Torchwood, said that he'd heard that she was a Doctor Who fan

She explained: 'I tried to get myself to the dunny. It took me about five minutes of just hauling myself out because it seemed to tilt the other way.'

Anne continued to snigger to herself as she tried to get up at which point Emily Atack offered to help.

Emily said: 'It's funny because when she's struggling with something you immediately want to help her but really she doesn't need it all the time. Love her. Absolutely love her.

Other members of the yellow team were also finding life in Croc Creek rather odd. James McVey said: 'First night was very strange. We still feel we're very welcome guests in a house that is not ours.'

Hilarious: Elsewhere in the episode, Anne revealed that she had stopped looking at her Wikipedia page because it says that she is married to someone called Jake Hester

And later Rita Simons, Fleur East and James were talking and Rita said 'the fire's gone out but I felt like I don't want to impose on the way they do it. I feel like such a guest. It's like sleeping over at someone's house.'

Anne candidly discussed the impact of being autistic on her love life in Wednesday's episode.

The Chase star, 60, opened up about romance and the challenges faced her in a chat with John with the pair bonding over Doctor Who.

John asked Anne if she had a partner and she replied 'No I don't.

'When I was working out that I was autistic it clarified a lot of things for me and one of those things was 'that's why I never seem to be able to make it work, that's why I always feel claustrophobic in a relationship.

Banter: The campmates laughed as Fleur suggested that 'Jake Hester' might come and meet Anne on the bridge

'That's why I kind of think that's probably not intended for me.'

The hunk, who played Captain Jack Harkness in the show and spin-off Torchwood, said that he'd heard that she was a Doctor Who fan.

Anne then revealed that David Tennant was her favourite doctor with John agreeing and high-fiving her.

'If you need a hand just holler and The Captain will come and help you' he said, after admitting he was a 'big soppy cow' in the Bush Telegraph.

Anne was diagnosed with Asperger's syndrome in 2003 when she was 45 years old.

Asperger's, is a developmental disorder characterized by significant difficulties in social interaction and nonverbal communication, along with restricted and repetitive patterns of behavior and interests.

Got ya: Emily Atack paid homage to one of the jungle's most iconic exits as she impersonated former campmate Gemma Collins

Fun in the sun: Channeling her inner GC, Emily had the girls in hysterics as she drawled in an Essex accent: ' At the end of the day I'm the GC, you're boring babe

She said it makers her unorganised and due to the clutter at her home she avoids having any visitors.

Elsewhere in the episode, Anne was quizzed by her fellow campmates, with the star making a hilarious revelation about her Wikipedia page.

Anne revealed that she had stopped looking at her page because it says that she is married to someone called Jake Hester.

The campmates laughed as Fleur suggested that 'Jake Hester' might come and meet Anne on the bridge.

The celebs also asked Anne what the hardest question that she'd ever been asked was.

She replied anything about football and continued 'Birmingham City is the only club never to have scored or won a game (she said she'd have to check) during an entire reign of a pope – Pope John Paul 1.' His reign lasted 30 days.

Lol: Paying tribute to Gemma, Emily left her fellow campmates, and fans, in stitches as she treated them to the uncanny impression of the self-proclaimed diva

Laugh out loud: You know what I don't need the money babe, I don't need it. I'm a celebrity get me out of here!'

Sleepy: Anne had a spot of bother getting out of bed after a restful night

She said: 'The thing about quizzing is it's like this little incestuous community and we tend to know each other and we talk to each other on Facebook and there's a quiz discussion group on Facebook.'

The star added: 'It's been fun entertaining the campmates with my quiz knowledge today. I hope it's been entertaining and interesting for them. I assume they wouldn't be asking the questions if they weren't interested.'

Emily left her fellow campmates in stitches as she treated them to an array of impressions, including that of former IAC contestant Gemma Collins.

Sair started by doing her impression of Love Island's Dani Dyer, saying 'at the end of the day, he thinks hes gonna make me a cheese and ham croissant every morning, he's gotta think again'.

Challenge: Next up came the Dingo Dollar Challenge -Class of 18, which saw Emily and Nick meet up with Kiosk Kev at the Outback Shack

Quiz: Emily and Nick had to open school lockers that contained celebrity secrets, they then had to match those secrets to the relevant celebrity in camp by placing the secrets underneath a school photo of them

Emily soon followed it up with her version and all the girls laughed.

Channeling her inner GC, Emily had the girls in hysterics as she drawled in an Essex accent: 'At the end of the day I'm the GC, you're boring babe.

'You know what I don't need the money babe, I don't need it. I'm a celebrity get me out of here!'

Talking in the Bush Telegraph, Rita said 'Emily is a very talented young lady, I just love impressions and accents.'

Rita then did her Denise Van Outen impression and told the girls about the time she did it to Denise in person.

Oh dear: The stars lost out on a jam roly-poly after their fellow celebs guessed incorrectly

Talking in the Bush Telegraph, Emily said 'Today was just glorious, this is what it's about.'

Next up came the Dingo Dollar Challenge -Class of 18, which saw Emily and Nick meet up with Kiosk Kev at the Outback Shack.

They were greeted by a Jungle laminate which had the instructions for the DDC challenge.

Emily read out the laminate '10 celebrities are the Jungle cast and 10 secrets that are hidden in their past. Match the secrets to the photo on the wall and to the shack you'll go with the Dingo Dollar haul.'

Emily and Nick had to open school lockers that contained celebrity secrets, they then had to match those secrets to the relevant celebrity in camp by placing the secrets underneath a school photo of them.

Tasty: The celebrities were however given an unappetising alpaca neck for dinner, which Masterchef Nick did his best to turn into a delicious delight

Wistful: Harry wistfully reflected on the dessert, saying: 'Probably got kangaroo wings for dinner, what I wouldn’t give for jam roly poly'

Some of the secrets included being an extra in a Robin Hood movie, applying for BGT, biting people as a child (later revealed to be Emily) and wanting to be a WWE wrestler.

Nick revealed as a 6th former he had climbed into the school loft and dyed the entire water system blue.

Emily and Nick had fun matching all the secrets correctly which meant another visit to Kiosk Kev at the Outback Shack.

The question of the day was what percentage of adults felt that their school days were the best days of their lives – (a) 50% or (b) 40%.

Up for grabs was jam roly poly or sherbet dip and they plumped for jam roly poly.

The King is here: Noel Edmonds cemented his status as king of the jungle as he transformed into a Roman emperor for his dramatic entrance into the I'm A Celebrity, in a teaser trailer

Welcome to the jungle: In a sneak peek at the 69-year-old television legend's challenge, the star rules over a Gladiator Amphitheatre as he prepares to watch his fellow celebs do battle

The camp said 40% and got it wrong as the answer was 50%, losing out on the decadent dessert.

Harry wistfully reflected on the dessert, saying: 'Probably got kangaroo wings for dinner, what I wouldn’t give for jam roly poly.'

The celebrities were however given an unappetising alpaca neck for dinner, which Masterchef Nick did his best to turn into a delicious delight.

After dinner there was drama in camp as a python was spotted with a rat in its mouth and was later removed by security.

Regal: Looking regal in a cream and purple silk toga, paired with a leather Pteruges, the star looked focused as he walked to his golden throne in the trailer

Focus: As he was surrounded by armed guards, a gold leaf crown was placed upon his head he roared, in the spirit of 2000 film Gladiator 'Are you not entertained?'

Then come the dramatic reveal where Holly and Dec revealed there was no public vote and that all celebrities have to make their way to the Trial area for further instruction.

As Holly said 'They have no idea who is waiting for them at the trial clearing' teasing Noel Edmond's spectacular entrance into the camp.

A teaser revealed Noel will play the merciless emperor in a Roman Gladiators task, with the television legend dressed in ceremonial robes as he bellowed 'are you not entertained?!

I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! continues on Thursday November 22, ITV1 at 9:00pm.

====== 2006 ========

I'M A CELEB: JOEL DOMMETT RETURNS TO EXTRA CAMP FOLLOWING FREAK ON-SET HEAD INJURY

I'm A Celebrity: Extra Camp star Joel Dommett returned to his hosting duties on Wednesday evening following his freak on-set head injury.

One day before the funnyman, who appeared on the 2016 series of the show, was rushed to hospital with a head injury after a part of the show's set crashed onto his head in windy conditions leading to a dramatic headdress.

While fans were delighted to see the star return to screens, his bandages did tickle audiences as one fan noted on Twitter that he looked like a pirate while others lauded him for returning to screens so swiftly after his accident.

Shocker: I'm A Celebrity: Extra Camp star Joel Dommett returned to his hosting duties on Wednesday evening following his freak on-set head injury

On Tuesday, Joel posted a snap of himself receiving seven stitches in hospital, and revealed he had been forced to miss Tuesday's show.

He wrote: 'Unfortunately due to unforeseen windy circumstances blowing the set onto my head during rehearsals, i won't be able to present Extra Camp this evening. I had seven stitches like a big brave boy and I'll be back tomorrow.

'To be honest I'm less worried about my health and more worried that the show will be better without me. Half a day off school to go home and watch neighbours! Woo!'

Taking to Twitter upon his return, viewers wrote: 'Loved #ExtraCamp tonight! Really nice to see you back again Joel even if you have seven stitches in your head and are still slightly concussed Loving the series so far guys keep it up!...

Ouch! One day before the funnyman, who appeared on the 2016 series of the show, was rushed to hospital with a head injury after a part of the show's set crashed onto his head in windy conditions leading to a dramatic headdress

Ouch! On Tuesday, Joel posted a snap of himself receiving seven stitches in hospital, and revealed he had been forced to miss Tuesday's show

Ahem... While fans were delighted to see the star return to screens, his bandages did tickle audiences as one fan noted on Twitter that he looked like a pirate while others lauded him for returning to screens so swiftly after his accident

'So glad @joeldommett was back on #extracamp tonight wasn’t the same without him #imaceleb Also excited for Noel Edmunds... So glad your back @joeldommett #ExtraCamp isn’t the same with out your witty banter and epic content #ImACeleb...

'I think @joeldommett head injury’s have made him slightly crazy?! #ExtraCamp... Loved tonight’s episode! John is an absolute icon but can’t get over the fact that @joeldommett looks like a pirate on a budget tonight bless him...

'@imacelebrity so glad that @joeldommett is back. Missed him last night and I’m happy you’re feeling better. #ImaCeleb #ExtraCamp'.

Happy days: Discussing how he sustained the injury in an Instagram video, he said: 'Thank you for all your concerns. I'm OK, got this cartoon bandage on and I was wearing Scarlett's hoodie, which I got blood all over. Sorry Scarlett, I will wash it'

Discussing how he sustained the injury in an Instagram video, he said: 'Thank you for all your concerns. I'm OK, got this cartoon bandage on and I was wearing Scarlett's hoodie, which I got blood all over. Sorry Scarlett, I will wash it!

'I can't actually watch the show because I'm in Australia so let me know what's going on. Joe and Scarlett are the best. Genuinely I fainted and I woke up and Joe was kissing my face.

'He was taken to a hospital in a production car and given seven stitches. The team wish him well and look forward to him returning to the show soon.'

An ITV spokesman said: 'A freak gust of wind blew over the Extra Camp signpost and it caught Joel on the back of the head'.

====== 2007 ========

VOGUE WILLIAMSS KISSES SPENCER MATTHEWS AT WINTER WONDERLAND LAUNCH

They welcomed their first child, a baby boy named Theodore, 11 weeks ago.

And Vogue Williams and her husband Spencer Matthews were enjoying a date night at the VIP launch of Winter Wonderland in Hyde Park, London on Wednesday evening.

The Irish presenter, 33, and the former Made In Chelsea star, 30, looked just as loved up as ever, sharing a sweet kiss as they sat side-by-side on a ride.

Date night: Vogue Williams and her husband Spencer Matthews attended the VIP launch of Winter Wonderland in Hyde Park, London on Wednesday evening

Sealed with a kiss! The Irish presenter, 33, and the former Made In Chelsea star, 30, looked just as loved up as ever, sharing a sweet kiss as they sat side-by-side on a ride

Vogue looked super cosy, wrapping up warm in a soft cream coat worn over a bright pink jumper.

She donned a statement pair of patent leather boots and accessorised with a coordinating shoulder bag.

The down-to-earth beauty wore her blonde locks pulled into a messy top knot and matched her lipgloss to her top.

New parents: The couple welcomed their first child, a boy named Theodore, 11 weeks ago

Cute: The new parents, who tied the knot this summer, looked madly in love during their fairground outing

Fun for all: The pair enjoyed a rare night off from parenting duties, letting their hair down all all the rides

Spencer was also bundled up against the cold in a black jacket with a fur-lined hood.

The pair enjoyed a rare night off from parenting duties, letting their hair down all all the rides.

The new parents, who tied the knot this summer, looked madly in love during their fairground outing.

Cosy: Spencer was also bundled up against the cold in a black jacket with a fur-lined hood

Cute: Spencer was looking at something on his phone, giggling with glee

Spencer recently told MailOnline about his upcoming fly-on-the-wall series with his wife, Spencer and Vogue Adult(ish).

'They've finally given me my own show. And unfortunately, for legal reasons I have to share it with my wife,' the star joked about the show, set to air on E4 in the new year.

He explained: 'It's shot more in a docu-series type way, really. It's very different to Made In Chelsea. If anything, it's the precise opposite to it. It's more like [mockumentary sitcom] The Office.

Having a ball: Vogue looked to be enjoying the experience, while Spencer seemed a little nervous about the rides

Defying gravity: The thrill-seeking duo were having a great evening with their friends

'There is zero structure to it and it's very free-flowing. It's almost a bit like unscripted comedy. It's funny. And it's great to be back on E4.'

Spencer rose to fame on Made In Chelsea when it began in 2011, and, although he still feels fondly about it, the TV personality admits he has 'moved on' - and that the format of Adult(ish) is very different.

'I wanted to refrain from structured reality,' Spencer went on, commenting on MIC's format, originally made famous by the likes of The Hills in America.

'Chelsea was a big part of my life but that's over now. I have moved on from that. Now I'm all about enjoying the next 10 years watching my son grow up.'

Chic: The presenter wore her blonde locks pulled up into a top knot

Rose tinted: The down-to-earth beauty matched her lipgloss to her top

Shortly after their trip to Winter Wonderland, Spencer was pictured buying a weekend bag from London-based brand Gandys, founded by brothers inspired by travel and fuelled by giving back.

Beaming in a snap with his new purchase, Spencer looked ready for action as he sported the brand, which has just launched its fourth London store and is currently placing emphasis on the rise of the ‘Instagram travelling woman’.

Citing Holly Willoughby in her I'm A Celebrity jungle attire as inspiration, Gandys has been highlighting women embracing solo travel culture.

Co-Founder Robert Forkan of the brand, which is also endorsed by Ben Fogle, said: 'We are finding more and more women who discover us on Instagram and Social Media are becoming increasingly travel-wear savvy.'

====== 2008 ========

JESS SHEARS COSIES UP TO NEW HUSBAND DOM LEVER AT 99P DRESS COLLECTION LAUNCH

They tied the knot in a lavish villa in Mykonos in October, after getting engaged following a three-month romance.

And Jess Shears and Dom Lever looked every inch the loved-up newlyweds as they attended the launch of Femme Luxe's 99p dress collection at Menagerie in Manchester.

The glamour model, 25, stunned in a skintight snake-print dress as she cosied up to her former career advisor husband, 27.

Cute couple: Jess Shears and Dom Lever looked every inch the loved-up newlyweds as they attended the launch of Femme Luxe's 99p dress collection at Menagerie in Manchester

Letting her statement dress do all the talking, Jess added height with some black patent stilettos and a leather bag.

She styled her long dark tresses in glossy waves and framed her features with taupe lipstick and plenty of bronzer.

Dom, meanwhile, kept things casual in black skinny jeans and a denim jacket teamed with suede Chelsea boots.

Chic: The glamour model, 25, stunned in a skintight snake-print dress as she cosied up to her former career advisor husband, 27

Preened to perfection: She styled her long dark tresses in glossy waves and framed her features with taupe lipstick and plenty of bronzer

Glam: Letting her statement dress do all the talking, Jess added height with some black patent stilettos and a leather bag

The couple married in a 13-bedroom private villa in the Greek Island of Mykonos at the end of October.

The pair, who struck up a romance on Love Island in 2017, have become the second couple to say 'I do' from the ITV2 show, weeks after Olivia Buckland and Alex Bowen married in a lavish Essex ceremony.

Talking to OK! magazine, the couple spoke about Dom drinking half a bottle of Southern comfort before delivering his speech.

Casual: Dom, meanwhile, kept things casual in black skinny jeans and a denim jacket teamed with suede Chelsea boots

Newlyweds: The couple married in a 13-bedroom private villa in the Greek Island of Mykonos at the end of October

Jess also spoke about her decision to buck the trend and give her bridesmaids white dresses to wear on the day and the couple both wrote their own vows.

They walked down the aisle to Ed Sheeran's Perfect and plan on having a big party, to include all their Love Island pals when they get back home.

They were also VERY hungover, the morning after the big day, after Dom partied until 7am.

Happy: The pair, who struck up a romance on Love Island in 2017, have become the second couple to say 'I do' from the ITV2 show, weeks after Olivia Buckland and Alex Bowen married in a lavish Essex ceremony

Boozy: Talking to OK! magazine, the couple spoke about Dom drinking half a bottle of Southern comfort before delivering his speech

Dom had cried when he saw Jess come down the aisle, saying: 'I didn't think I would cry but I was blubbering all day. It all started when I saw my little sister walking down the aisle. Then I saw Jess and I went to pieces.'

Guests drank gin and tonics, local beers and Belvedere vodka on the day and Dom had a few extra drinks in order to pluck up the courage for his speech.

Dom said: 'I'd drunk a bottle of Southern Comfort by that point, so I was feeling pretty confident. I wrote a few bullets points but winged most of the speech. Jess offered to write it for me.'

Sssssexy: Ex On The Beach star Laura Alicia Summers stunned in a snake-print dress and lace-up boots

====== 2009 ========

KATIE PRICE PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: STAR BREAKS DOWN AS SHE IS COMFORTED BY HER NANNY

Katie Price, 40, was comforted by her nanny Lauryn Cole during their low-key visit to a park on Wednesday amid her bankruptcy woes.

The mother-of-five, who is said to have debts ranging from £250,000 to £500,000, could be made homeless at a court hearing in December.

Seemingly too much for the former glamour model, Katie broke down when she was on the phone during her trip to the park with her nanny.

Katie Price PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: Mother-of-five broke down as she was comforted by her nanny on Wednesday amid bankruptcy woes

Lauryn comfortingly draped her arm around Katie when the pair took a moment to sit down in the leafy park.

A clearly upset Katie was seen wiping away tears while her kind employee offered her emotional support.

The businesswoman and the nanny huddled together when they perched on the grassy bank which showed the pair had forged a close bond.

Moving moment: Lauryn comfortingly draped her arm around Katie when the pair took a moment to sit down in the leafy park

So sad: A clearly upset Katie was seen wiping away tears while her kind employee offered her emotional support

Together: The businesswoman and the nanny huddled together when they perched on the grassy bank which showed the pair had forged a close bond

The star hired new nanny Lauryn after her previous employee Nikki Brown hit headlines when she firmly denied accusations of cheating with Katie's ex-husband.

Former Loose Women panelist Katie visit to the park with Lauryn comes amid her bankruptcy woes.

The mother-of-five managed to escape bankruptcy for another month at the end of October but she could be made homeless at a court hearing in December.

Ink-credible: Katie kept off the chill when she headed to the park in a loose-fitted hoodie which she paired with trainers and socks

Close bond: The star hired new nanny Lauryn after her previous employee Nikki Brown hit headlines when she firmly denied accusations of cheating with Katie's ex-husband

Low profile: Katie kept up her glamorous looks by defining her gorgeous features with heavy make-up and she straightened her brunette locks before tossing it into a ponytail

The former glamour model — who was worth an estimated £45million — narrowly avoided being declared bankrupt in August, when she was given 12 weeks to come up with the money she owes to creditors.

Her lawyers came back to London's High Court at the end of October for a fresh hearing over how she will clear up a £22,000 debt with the taxman.

Estimates over the Loose Women star's total debts have ranged from £250,000 to £500,000.

Bad news: Former Loose Women panelist Katie visit to the park with Lauryn comes amid her bankruptcy woes

Small mercies: The mother-of-five managed to escape bankruptcy for another month at the end of October

Terrible news: The mother-of-five could be made homeless at a court hearing in December

Goes way back: The former glamour model was worth an estimated £45million and she has a big following on social media platforms

Time for change: She narrowly avoided being declared bankrupt in August, when she was given 12 weeks to come up with the money she owes to creditors

Explained: Her lawyers came back to London's High Court at the end of October for a fresh hearing over how she will clear up a £22,000 debt with the taxman

Money talks: Estimates over the Loose Women star's total debts have ranged from £250,000 to £500,000

Katie's legal team stated, in October, she would meet with tax officials on November 16 - but further news has not been announced; nor whether she did or did not meet with them on Friday.

It is thought she will attempt to be enter into an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA), a formal alternative for indebted people wishing to avoid bankruptcy.

Katie is said to fear having to sell her West Sussex mansion if a trustee is brought in to sell off her possessions.

She is unlikely to be made homeless before Christmas due to rules allowing people living with children to appeal for a 12-month delay to losing their home.

In recent months, there have been reports the former model, a keen horsewoman, had been trying to sell off her pink horsebox and a number of her animals in a bid to reduce her mounting debts.

Plans: It is thought she will attempt to be enter into an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA), a formal alternative for indebted people wishing to avoid bankruptcy

Tough times: Katie is said to fear having to sell her West Sussex mansion if a trustee is brought in to sell off her possessions

What's happening? She is unlikely to be made homeless before Christmas due to rules allowing people living with children to appeal for a 12-month delay to losing their home

====== 2010 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY'S NICK KNOWLES TOPS THE CHARTS WITH NEW COVER SINGLE

He's carving out a career as a bona-fide singer, with his new single Make You Feel My Love topping the charts this week.

But Nick Knowles, 56, made his first foray into the singing world decades earlier, when he transformed into a goth for a 90s TV programme.

The DIY SOS presenter looked worlds away from his handyman persona in dramatic white make-up and a red curly wig while posing as a fake popstar.

DIY make-up: Nick Knowles, 56, made his first foray into the singing world decades earlier, when he transformed into a goth for a Nineties TV programme

Nick went by the name Carrick Fear as part of his jaw-dropping transformation for the documentary The Tuesday Specials in 1996.

The show aimed to test a person's ability to become a rock star by creating an 'impostor' in the music world.

And while Nick was simply pretending to be a popstar then, he has since stormed the iTunes download chart with his new song, Make You Feel My Love.

At the time of publication, the 56-year-old's single was beating the likes of Cheryl, Lady Gaga and P!nk - but he doesn't even know it yet.

Who's that? The DIY SOS presenter looked worlds away from his handyman persona in dramatic white make-up and a red curly wig while posing as a fake popstar

Getting wiggy with it: A red hairpiece and backing dancers was all Nick needed back in the day

Shock rise: It comes as the singer has topped the charts with new cover single Make You Feel My Love... beating the likes of Cheryl, P!nk and Lady Gaga

The shock rise in popularity comes after Radio DJ Chris Moyles, 44, spearheaded a campaign on Radio X to get crooner Nick in the charts.

He also garnered some cool points on the show on Tuesday night, saying his musical career came after he jammed on a rooftop bar with Biffy Clyro.

He told Emily Atack: 'I've always played, my brother's a really good musician and I've always played along with him and a couple of years ago.

Helped: The rise in popularity comes after Radio DJ Chris Moyles, 44, spearheaded a campaign to get I'm A Celebrity crooner Nick in the charts

Kind: Nick's generosity in giving autistic campmate Anne Hegerty, 60, his pillow in the jungle, also won him an army of new fans

'Somebody heard me, I was playing on a rooftop bar in Soho with some other bands... it was Biffy Clyro.

'Somebody from a record company saw me doing it and I got a phone call saying, 'I'm from Universal, want to do an album?''

Nick's generosity in giving autistic campmate Anne Hegerty, 60, his pillow in the jungle, also won him an army of new fans.

Number one: At the time of publication, Nick's song topped the iTunes download charts

Cheryl is currently perched at number 11 in the iTunes chart.

P!nk sits at number two, while Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper's Shallow has dropped down to position four after weeks of success.

But not everyone's a fan. Last year, Noel Gallagher slammed Nick's singing skills in an interview with Alan Carr's Chatty Man which aired on Christmas day.

He said: 'My delivery is better than that. I don't sound like I'm having a stroke when I'm singing it.'

Lagging behind: Cheryl currently sits at number 11 in the same chart despite lots of hype

Joining in on the digs, boisterous Chatty Man host Alan, added: 'His delivery was less album, more audiobook.'

Of his move into singing, Nick told MailOnline last year: 'I used to be the guitarist at school in a band but it was never going to turn into a career.

'And then I started to do acting. That then led to TV work - mostly factual and news stuff. So I was busy trying to build a TV career.

'But with my TV work I went to Australia and Africa – and I took my guitar with me, to the ass-end of nowhere. I was always playing. It kept the wildlife awake.'

In his younger days, Nick also hosted gigs on Friday nights in one of the rooms of a local pub in London, when people leaving the West End shows would come and watch afterwards.

Popular: Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper's Shallow has dropped down to position four after weeks of success

He continued: 'Music has always played a big part of my life,' he said. 'With DIY:SOS, we are always away on location. So I'd take my guitar and whoever's on location with me, I'll play for them. We have had some great nights.'

'I didn't seek this path, it found me really,' he said. 'I'm a story teller. I write scripts too. I have written a movie that toured around the world. These are all creative areas.

'It's a very British thing to stay in lanes. I got a tweet from a teacher about why I'm moving into music, and I was like 'are you going to teach your students to only ever do one thing with their lives'.'

His new single, Make You Feel My Love, he thinks compliments his deep voice, and 'raised eyebrows' because he'd chosen to cover an Adele track.

'Actually it was written by Bob Dylan,' he said. 'So it was written for a male voice.'

====== 2011 ========

LOVE ISLAND'S ELLIE BROWN AT SURVIVING CHRISTMAS WITH THE RELATIVES PREMIERE

She was recently spotted cosying up to a Made In Chelsea newcomer during a boozy night out, despite rumours she was dating TOWIE's Joey Essex.

But Ellie Brown left her rumoured love interests at home on Wednesday evening, as she stormed the red carpet for the world premiere of Surviving Christmas With The Relatives at Vue West End in London's Leicester Square.

The 20-year-old Love Island beauty ensured she took centre-stage in a plunging black LBD as she joined the show's 2017 stars, Amber Davies and Gabby Allen.

Here come the girls: Love Island's Ellie Brown stunned in a plunging LBD as she joined leggy Amber Davies and edgy Gabby Allen at the Surviving Christmas With The Relatives premiere

Ellie stole the spotlight in her revealing midi dress, which she teamed with a sizzling pair of scarlet barely-there stilettos and a pearl-embellished clutch.

Styling her golden tresses in glossy waves, she plumped her lips with a slick of crimson lipstick and framed her eyes with plenty of mascara and shimmering shadow.

Amber, meanwhile, who won Love Island last year with her now-ex Kem Cetinay, looked chic in a glittering bronze tuxedo dress teamed with black monogrammed sock boots.

The Welsh dancer wore her brunette tresses in a simple middle-parting and accentuated her face with taupe lipstick and muted eyeshadow.

Looking good: Ellie stole the spotlight in her revealing midi dress, which she teamed with a sizzling pair of scarlet barely-there stilettos and a pearl-embellished clutch

Going for gold: Amber, meanwhile, who won Love Island last year with her now-ex Kem Cetinay, looked chic in a glittering bronze tuxedo dress teamed with black monogrammed sock boots

Ready for her close-up: The Welsh dancer wore her brunette tresses in a simple middle-parting and accentuated her face with taupe lipstick and muted eyeshadow

Hot on their heels was Bake Off 2018 runner up Ruby Bhogal, who was almost unrecognisable as she wowed in a very daring red halterneck dress.

Ruby, 29, swapped her Bake Off apron for the stunning satin number, showing some skin with the plunging neckline and racy thigh-high split.

She added a pair of towering black strappy heels to amp up the glam factor, while accessorising with a matching manicure. Her dark locks were styled into voluminous waves, while a flawless face of makeup completed her red carpet look.

The reality stars were out in full force to celebrate the premiere of Surviving Christmas With The Relatives, a British comedy drama in which the families of two sisters gather at their late parents' country house to celebrate the festive season.

These boots were made for walking! Gabby Allen showcased her trademark quirky style in a pair of cow-print ankle boots and a red snake-print skirt

Going solo: The 26-year-old Scouse beauty attended the premiere without her boyfriend, Rak-Su singer Myles Stephensen

Baking queen: 2018 Bake Off runner up Ruby Bhogal was almost unrecognisable as she hit the red carpet in a stunning red halterneck gown

Wow factor: Ruby swapped her Bake Off apron for the stunning satin number, showing some skin with the plunging neckline

What drama? TOWIE's Amber Turner and Dan Edgar put on a united front as they stepped out at the star-studded Surviving Christmas With The Relatives premiere

Shimmer: The TOWIE co-stars looked closer than ever as they cosied up on the red carpet, with Amber, 25, showcasing her surgically enhanced assets in a slinky gown

The film stars Joely Richardson as well as Julian Ovenden, Gemma Whelan, Michael Landes, Sally Phillips, Patricia Hodge, Ronni Ancona and James Fox.

Ellie Brown's outing comes after she put on a very cosy display with Made In Chelsea newbie Tom Dolemore at her pal Samira Mighty's birthday party at 100 Wardour St before heading to Mahiki in London last week.

Tom was introduced in the latest series if the E4 reality show and enjoyed one date with Sophie Habboo in his brief stint on the reality show.

Smitten: The blonde beauty slipped her toned frame into a champagne hued silk gown which teased a glimpse of her braless cleavage before flowing into a shimmering skirt

Confident: The blonde bombshell appeared to be in good spirits as she took to the red carpet

Family affair: Ex On The Beach star Chloe Goodman went for a revealing cross-strap gown, while her sister Lauryn rocked a metallic minidress

Everything ok, Lauryn? The make-up artist seemed unsure where to go as she made her way into the cinema

Double trouble: Chloe, who has also appeared on Celebrity Big Brother, finished off her perilously plunging gown with black barely-there heels

The reality star, who ensured all eyes were on her in a plunging white halterneck dress, shared a playful smooch with Samira as they made their bleary-eyed exit from the boozy bash.

The Geordie star's night on the town comes after Ellie went public with her romance to former TOWIE cast member Joey Essex.

Sharing a video online earlier this month, the pair locked lips after Ellie said: 'Absolutely smashed it! I'm very proud', in reference to a project he was working on.

Reality stars galore: TOWIE star Chloe Sims donned a beige knit dress and sheepskin coat, while her co-star and Pete Wicks' ex Shelby Tribble dare to bare in a plunging satin dress

Going dotty: TOWIE star Chloe Meadows looked chic in a polka dot jumpsuit with a flirty Bardot neckline

A source told The Sun: 'Ellie and Joey were all over each other at Sheesh – kissing and flirting together. They met for the first time there and immediately hit it off drinking and partying until the early hours'.

It comes after Ellie admitted she finally felt like herself again following her heartbreak from millionaire hunk Charlie Brake, 23, whom she met in the villa.

Ellie's close pal and co-star Zara McDermott, 21, recently said she saw 'issues' and 'cracks' in Ellie's relationship with Charlie.

There he is: Bob Geldof cpvered up in a velvet coat and corduroy baker boy hat as he attended with his wife Jeanne Marine

Cute couple: The former Boomtown Rats frontman, 67, tied the knot with Jeanne, 52, in 2015

Woman of the hour: Joely Richardson, who stars in Surviving Christmas With The Relatives, looked regal in a floor-skimming scarlet gown with oversized sleeves

Screen star: Surviving Christmas With The Relatives is a British comedy drama in which the families of two sisters gather at their late parents' country house to celebrate the festive season

Bold and bright: Pussycat Dolls singer Melody Thornton rocked a blue dress teamed with an orange coat, while actress Gemma Oaten donned a skintight red lace dress

The former government advisor - who is moving in with her beau Adam Collard, 22 - revealed she didn't see any 'longevity' in her best friend and fellow contestant Ellie's on-screen romance and admitted she is 'devastated' and 'upset' for her pal.

Despite her romance with Joey, insiders claimed Ellie was also finding another TOWIE connection after she locked lips with Pete Wicks at the ITV gala at London's Royal Festival Hall last month.

An insider explained: 'Ellie and Pete were together towards the end of the night and were flirting like mad. They didn’t seem to care who could see them and seemed really keen on each other.'

Keeping it casual: Made In Chelsea stars Emily Blackwell and Sophie Habboo dressed down in skinny jeans

Check her out: Love Island star and pro surfer Laura Crane wrapped up in wide-leg trousers and a houndstooth coat

====== 2012 ========

JOCKEY JAMIE MOORE LOSES HIS TROUSERS AFTER FALLING OFF CASSE TETE AT ASCOT

Jockey Jamie Moore had an afternoon to forget at Ascot Racecourse on Friday.

The National Hunt rider, who rode Baron Alco to victory in the BetVictor Gold Cup Handicap Chase at Cheltenham last Saturday, fell off Casse Tete and lost his trousers in the Waitrose & Partners Handicap Chase.

The gelding, trained by Moore's father Gary, unseated Moore at the seventh fence at the Berkshire track.

Jockey Jamie Moore had an afternoon to forget at Ascot Racecourse in Berkshire on Friday

Moore, dressed in white and green silks, was pictured in his underwear after trousers fell down

National Hunt rider fell off Casse Tete and lost his trousers in the fourth race on the card

Moore, dressed in white and green silks, was pictured in his underwear after his trousers fell down.

Moore appeared to see the funny side as he was seen smiling as he pulled up his trousers on the course.

The Robert Walford-trained Mr Medic, in the hands of James Best, won the two mile, five furlong race.

The gelding, trained by Moore's father Gary, unseated Moore at the seventh fence of the race

Moore appeared to see the funny side as he was seen smiling as he pulled up his trousers

Moore had two other rides on the card on Friday with his best-placed finish coming in the final race.

Moore, again riding for his father, finished third on Distingo in the Coutts Handicap Hurdle.

He will be back at Ascot on Saturday where he will ride Benatar in the Christy 1965 Chase.

====== 2013 ========

GROUND STAFF USE BUCKETS – AND THEIR HANDS – TO TRY TO REMOVE WATER FROM FLOODED FOOTBALL PITCH

This is the moment ground staff were filmed using buckets and their hands to remove water from a flooded pitch during an international football match in the Republic of the Congo.

During the African Cup of Nations qualifying match players from the Democratic Republic of Congo and Congo found their match interrupted by torrential rain.

With the pitch submerged under rain water, dedicated ground staff at the Brazzaville stadium braved the waters in an effort to keep the game going on November 18.

Footage has emerged of ground staff using buckets and their hands to remove water from a flooded pitch in Brazzaville in the Republic of the Congo

The torrential struck during an African Cup of Nations qualifying football match between the Democratic Republic of Congo and Congo

As the pitch became submerged under water, ground staff braved the waters in an effort to keep the game in play

Eager to keep the game in play, staff were filmed taking to the pitch with buckets in their hands and clearing the water from the grass area.

Some staff were even spotted using their bare hands to clear the pitch as spectators watched on at their futile efforts.

According to reports, after an hour of hard labour from the ground staff, the players were able to get back on the field and the game was able to resume.

Ground staff were seen with buckets in their hands as they tried to clear the waters. Some were even spotted trying to clear the waters with their bare hands

After clearing the pitch, players were able to get back on the field and the game was able to resume

The qualifier between the Democratic Republic of Congo and Congo saw the match end in a 1-1 draw.

The 2019 African Cup of Nations, due to take place in June and July next year, will see 24 teams compete for the prestigious cup in Cameroon.

The teams to have qualified so far are: Egypt, Morocco, Nigeria, Senegal, Mauritania, Madagascar, Tunisia, Mali, Uganda, Guinea, Algeria, Ivory Coast and Cameroon.

====== 2014 ========

VIDEO: INCREDIBLE MOMENT 'GOALKEEPER' DOG SAVES A GOAL DURING A SHOOTOUT

Video: Incredible moment 'goalkeeper' dog saves a goal during a shootout

An dachshund dog found himself the centre of attention after wandering onto a pitch and saving a goal during a penalty shootout. The dog can be seen walking out into the goal and taking the full force of the...

====== 2015 ========

VIDEO: ADORABLE MOMENT A PUPPY OPENS A BIG DOOR FOR HIS FRIEND IN THAILAND

Video: Adorable moment a puppy opens a big door for his friend in Thailand

This footage shows the adorable moment when a puppy opens up a big door for his friend in Thailand. Once the other dog slips through the opening, a larger one comes from inside the room and opens it up for the first...

====== 2016 ========

VIDEO: SHOCKING MOMENT TAXI DRIVER CHASED BY KNIFEMAN IN ATTACK

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 2017 ========

VIDEO: ART TEACHER DECORATES DIRTY CARS WITH DRAWINGS MADE OUT OF DUST

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 2018 ========

VIDEO: BIRMINGHAM MAN POSES AS A 'CUSTOMER' BEFORE DRIVING OFF IN £5,000 CAR

Video: Birmingham man poses as a 'customer' before driving off in £5,000 car

This is the moment a man poses as a 'customer' at a car dealership in Birmingham before driving off in a car worth £5,000. CCTV footage from the incident in Kingstanding shows the second-hand Volkswagen Golf's boot...

====== 2019 ========

VIDEO: THIEVES USE A TELEHANDLER TO DESTROY SAINSBURY'S LOCAL FOR CASH MACHINE

Video: Thieves use telehandler to destroy Sainsbury's Local for ATM

This clip shows a group of alleged thieves using a crane to demolish a Sainbury's Local in Kent to steal the cash machine. The incident in Maidstone was filmed by a bystander in Kent, which also showed a large metal...

====== 2020 ========

VIDEO: YOUNG GIRL'S SHOES GET STUCK TO RACE TRACK AFTER DAY'S RACING HEAT

Video: Young girl's shoes get stuck to race track after day's racing heat

This dad took his daughter to the race track the day after the Mustang Races. He'd warned her the heat of the day's racing had melted the track and she'd likely stick to it. She didn't quite believe him and decided...

====== 2021 ========

VIDEO: PICKPOCKET STEALS WALLET WHILE FACING AWAY FROM HIS VICTIM

Video: Pickpocket steals wallet while facing away from his victim

CCTV footage shows the moment a pickpocket steals a pub customer's wallet while facing away from his pensioner victim the whole time. The incident was caught on CCTV at the Drum and Monkey pub in Glasgow.

====== 2022 ========

VIDEO: WOMAN IS KNOCKED OUT BY A MAN AFTER SHE SHE SPAT AT HIS FRIENDS

Video: Woman is knocked out by a man after she she spat at his friends

This is the moment a half-dressed woman is knocked out by a single punch after she spat at his friends. She was involved in the altercation with the group of men outside a kebab shop believed to be in Cleethorpes,...

====== 2023 ========

VIDEO: BIZARRE MOMENT CYCLIST CRASHES INTO A STATIONARY CAR

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 2024 ========

VIDEO: CUTE PUP DOESN'T WANT HIS WALK TO END SO HE DROPS TO THE GROUND

Video: Cute pup doesn't want his walk to end so he drops to the ground

Cute and stubborn Border Terrier, Patrick, doesn't want his walk to end so he drops to the ground and refuses to go home. His owner is then forced to drag him along.

====== 2025 ========

VIDEO: CUSTOMERS CLIMB SHELVES IN WALMART TO GET MISPRICED 90% OFF TVS

Video: Customers climb shelves in Walmart to get mispriced 90% off TVs

The video footage shows people scrambling to get TV sets and grappling with each other to claim one. During a Walmart store sale in Mexico City, an employee mispriced some TV sets and customers take advantage of the...

====== 2026 ========

VIDEO: POLICE WAS READY TO ARREST A BURGLAR BUT THE INTRUDER WAS A RAT

Video: Police was ready to arrest a burglar but the intruder was a rat

A 23-year-old, Liverpool University business management student, calls 999 after hearing noises in his house. Four police officers show up at the scene but they shockingly discover that the intruder is only an...

====== 2027 ========

VIDEO: REMARKABLE MOMENT COWBOYS USHER 2,000 SHEEP DOWN PUBLIC ROAD

Video: Remarkable moment cowboys usher 2,000 sheep down public road

Remarkable moment cowboys usher 2,000 sheep down busy public road in Colorado. A couple travelling through Colorado and were shocked to see their path blocked - by the 2000 strong herd travelling in the opposite...

====== 2028 ========

VIDEO: ADORABLE MOMENT CHIMPANZEE WASHES HIMSELF DURING SHOWER TIME AT THE ZOO

Video: Adorable moment chimpanzee washes himself during shower time at the zoo

This is the adorable moment a young chimpanzee washes himself and scrubs his stomach to make more bubbles during shower time at a zoo. Little 2 year-old Limbani, was filmed at Miami Zoo in Florida and the cute...

====== 2029 ========

VIDEO: HILARITY ENSUES AS TWO MEN TRY TO GET RID OF A SPIDER IN PAPHOS

Video: Hilarious scenes as two men try to get rid of a spider in Cyprus

This footage shows the moment two grown men panic over removing a spider in Paphos. The incident in Cyprus was filmed by their friend, who captured his friends panicking and freaking out while trying to trap and get...

====== 2030 ========

VIDEO: WOMAN SPOTTED WITH A FOX IN CROWDED MOSCOW METRO STATION

Video: Woman spotted with a fox in crowded Moscow metro station

A woman in Moscow was spotted with a tame fox resting on her shoulder in a packed Moscow metro station. The footage, filmed in Kashirskaya station, shows the furry companion looking unfazed as its owner boards a...

====== 2031 ========

VIDEO: MUM DISCOVERS HER CHILDREN HAVE COVERED THEMSELVES IN PAINT

Video: Mum discovers her children have covered themselves in paint

This is the amusing moment a mother, from Chelmsford, Essex, discovers her two children have covered themselves head to toe in paint on her bed. The cheeky pair laugh as they are caught rubbing the paint over their...

====== 2032 ========

RICHARD EDEN FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Stella McCartney is unlikely to find favour with Immigration Minister Caroline Nokes, who remarked this week that it was not ‘appropriate’ for anyone to be paid more than £1 million a year — ‘whatever business they are in’. I can disclose that the fashion designer’s eponymous company rewarded her with £3.9 million last year. However, the sum represents little more than starvation wages for the 47-year-old compared with the £8.3 million she received the previous year, when the company’s profits were £9.5 million — just £500,000 more than in the latest accounts. ...read

====== 2033 ========

AMANDA PLATELL FOR THE DAILY MAIL

The documentary was most revealing about his wife Camilla, above, and their marriage. She appeared no fewer than five times in the first 15 minutes and it was she who had the last word, finishing the programme by describing the caring, lighter side of Charles she would like us all to see. She came across as his standard bearer, extolling his virtues with becoming humour in that husky ex-smoker’s voice of hers. Whether she was shown jollying him up on a tedious foreign tour or describing him playing with her grandchildren, this was not so much about our future King but, whisper it, our future Queen. I have been one of Camilla’s fiercest critics, not least about the way in which she and Charles betrayed Diana. But it was crystal clear from this documentary that she is integral to his happiness and they are meant for each other. ...read

====== 2034 ========

I JUST HOPE ENGLAND SILENCE THE SCREECHING AUSSIES AT TWICKENHAM

Annoying, loud, whining, whingeing, screeching. They're just a few words that pop into my head when I think of the Wallabies.

All the Australians I've played with, or against, are top blokes, but they're just a constant stream of noise. They'll either be whingeing at you or whingeing about you. They try to influence the referee or get under your skin.

As a nation, they're in your face, telling you how good they are and hoping that you bow down to that. They're confident.

The Australia side are loud, annoying and confident - England really want to shut them up

All you've got to do is go to a pub with an Aussie for half a pint and you leave with a headache. It's just screeches of 'MAAATE. GOOD BOWLING SHANE! MAAAATE!'

The rivalry isn't like Wales or New Zealand, but a lot of it stems back to the 2015 World Cup. They did an absolute job on us and there's been a lot of tension ever since.

Losing to the Australians at your own World Cup will still be at the forefront of the boys' minds. It was such a painful experience that it will still be part of the boys' psyche.

They all seem to have a voice. It's just 'MAAAATE! MAAAATE!' and England will desperately want to shut them up.

Losing to the Aussies on home turf at 2015 World Cup will still be fresh on the players' minds

A TOAST TO BOB DWYER

I'll be raising a fizzy can of Fosters to Bob Dywer if England win. He's another Australian with plenty to say and he's said a fair bit about the English scrum over the past few years.

He had a pop at Dan Cole in 2016 and I sent a message to Bob that wouldn't be suitable before the watershed. Next thing, a written warning arrived in the post at Harlequins from the RFU.

Australia are as guilty as anyone of using illegal angles, binds or other tactics at the scrum. There isn't a single scrum in the world that goes forward legally. Anyway, cheers Bob, MAAAATE!

Bob Dywer has had plenty to say but he will be eating his words if England win on Saturday

BY GEORGE, HE'S GOT TO STAY

Jamie George looks like a big friendly panda, but he's the future for England. He's four years younger than Dylan Hartley and it's inevitable that he'll succeed him at some point, but I don't think it will be anytime soon.

Does his start today feel like a changing of the guard? Not to me. I used to be in charge of the bedroom hierarchy in the England camp and Jamie's been upgraded to a suite with Elliot Daly.

The more caps you have, the better room you get and Jamie doesn't have to listen to anyone snoring any more. I'd like to see him get a long run of starts, but I get the impression Dylan is still Eddie's man.

Jamie George is the future of England and is the suitable heir to Dylan Hartley's throne

Traditionally the Wallabies have a weak scrum, but that hasn't been the case for a few years. They've got smart operators in Sekope Kepu and Scott Sio so it will be a close battle, although I think Ben Moon could tip the balance in England's favour. The midfield is where I expect England to dominate.

Bernard Foley isn't the strongest defender at 12 and Eddie will send his big hitters directly down his channel. Joe Cokanasiga, Ben Te'o, Young Bull Kyle Sinckler and Courtney Lawes will all be looking for him.

Then you've got Manu Tuilagi — the pool king — and Nathan Hughes to come off the bench and run at him some more.

GET WELL SOON, MAAAATE!

Last year, in the last play of the game, I tackled Michael Hooper and he screeched... screamed! I thought something really bad had happened and thought, "Oh my God. Oh my God. Is he all right?" I went to help him, then he just got up and pushed me.

For once in my life, it wasn't me starting the fight. He just got up and said 'Mate, you're weak! You're f***ing weak!' I was like, 'Pardon?' He was screaming like a little girl. I said, 'Actually mate, I'm not weak, I can bench press 200 kilos'.

It's always tetchy when England play Australia. For me, that moment just showed how much they hate losing to us.

====== 2035 ========

ENGLAND MUST START FAST AND PUT AUSTRALIA UNDER THE COSH AT TWICKENHAM

England's task is simple, although achieving it might prove very difficult. What England must do to put Australia away is reproduce the brilliant rugby they played in the first 38 minutes of the New Zealand game.

That was the best rugby I have witnessed from an England team in a very long while and although it seems a long time ago — a lot of water has gone under the bridge — it is worth revisiting.

Only very rarely do you see New Zealand totally bossed for so long in a game, although it went downhill after that and England squandered the chance of a famous win.

England must emulate their brilliant start in the All Blacks game against Australia on Saturday

The first thing is that England were right mentally from the first whistle, which they weren't against either Japan or South Africa, games marked by very poor first-half performances by England.

England were crisp and concise and very focused. Everything was executed well and at pace. The balance was right — the forwards were asked to put in the hard yards but the backs were immediately brought into play when the moment was right.

The kicking was on the money and the likes of Sam Underhill chased and harried relentlessly and timed their tackles well. New Zealand weren't allowed time to settle, and until England lost concentration just before half-time it was a nigh-on flawless display.

Jamie George is the only unenforced change so there's no reason why England can't do that

England have basically gone back to that team. The backs are the same save for Joe Cokanasiga coming in for the injured Chris Ashton, and in the pack Courtney Lawes plays lock in place of the injured George Kruis.

The only unenforced change from that starting XV is Jamie George getting the nod over Dylan Hartley, who was brilliant in that first 40 minutes against the Kiwis.

So that's the template and there is no reason why England can't replicate those stunningly good 38 minutes and put Australia under the cosh. Once you have found a formula, stick with it.

A number of the side, not least those not involved against Japan last week, will still want to produce a performance and a win to erase the memory of the very unsatisfactory second half against New Zealand. The patchy nature of the victory over Japan didn't really do that.

There will be a few players who will want to erase that second-half display against All Blacks

Eddie Jones' men have what it takes to beat the Wallabies to seal a successful autumn

I am confident of an England victory and if they win well it can be deemed a successful autumn but beware of Australia would be my message. It's true they haven't had a great year — in fact, that's an understatement — but in my experience there is no more dangerous side when they have their backs to the wall.

The most recent example of that was against Argentina in Salta last month when many were insisting they needed to win to save coach Michael Cheika from the sack. The Aussies were 31-7 down but, incredibly, fought back to win 45-34.

They will demonstrate the same die-hard spirit at Twickenham on Saturday and that, allied with their abundant skill, makes them very dangerous. If they win, everybody in the Australian camp will have a smile on their face going into 2019 despite a pretty miserable 2018.

Australia are targeting this game and a good win in Italy last week got the squad on track. They will challenge very hard but if England find their A-game for the full 80 minutes I only see one winner.

Australia's comeback win against Argentina last month shows they can still hurt England

ACID TESTS FOR HOME NATIONS

This could be a tumultuous weekend for British rugby and set up a launchpad for next year's World Cup, where I can see three of our nations reaching the semi-finals.

Ireland have been at the fore and are in fantastic shape after their memorable win over New Zealand last week, but how brilliant for our game would it be if by Saturday evening England, Scotland and Wales had beaten southern hemisphere sides?

Aside from England, there is an equally big match for Wales at the Principality Stadium against a Springboks side who impress me the more I see them.

Aside from England, Wales too have a big task on Saturday against the impressive Springboks

Wales have been ticking over nicely this autumn, beating Scotland, squeezing past Australia and thrashing Tonga, but this is big. They don't tend to go well in the autumn but if they complete a clean sweep they will underline their position as the world's No 3 ranked team.

It's significant because the Boks, despite unavailabilties and injuries, should have beaten England and quarried out fine wins against France and Scotland. They are on the way back up and it should be a cracker in Cardiff this evening.

Meanwhile, it hasn't all been smooth sailing for Scotland but they hinted at good times ahead in the manner they beat Fiji and for periods against South Africa. Win against the Pumas on Saturday and they will still be on track for the 2019 Six Nations and then the World Cup. A great climax to an enjoyable month of Test rugby.

====== 2036 ========

ALEX BRUMMER FOR THE DAILY MAIL

With waxwork images of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle pensively looking on, the chief executive of Merlin Entertainments, Nick Varney, this week embraced the foreign exchange impact of a hard Brexit. At a time of vast overseas expansion, the owner of Madame Tussauds and operator of Legoland and other theme park franchises would benefit greatly from the translation back into pounds of foreign currency earnings, and stands to benefit if the UK attracted more overseas visitors. ...read

====== 2037 ========

BUMBLE AT THE TEST: IT'S GREAT JONNY BAIRSTOW WEARS HIS HEART ON HIS SLEEVE

Jonny Bairstow's superb century put England in control of the third Test before Sri Lanka fought back late on during day one in Colombo. Ben Stokes chipped in with 57 as England finished the day on with 312 for 7.

Sportsmail's DAVID LLOYD provides an alternative look at the action...

Back in Colombo and straight over to an old stamping ground in the Galle Face Hotel, a must visit for sun-downers.

I watched the sun going down and the sea coming in and the colours were absolutely spectacular. I've taken a picture every night and each time they were different. Magnificent.

I posted this picture of the sunset in Sri Lanka earlier this week and it was just as nice on Friday

Next stop was a new hang-out for me, Beach Wadiya. It's a rustic shack with trestle tables but it was lovely for watching fishermen bring their catch in and then having it served up fresh.

Quality stuff, too. Lobsters and langustines to the fore. And a real cricket hall of fame on the walls. Pictures of some of the all-time greats. What a World XI they would make...

We did a podcast with one of the great men of cricket in Darren Gough. It was special to get him and Mike Atherton, captain and fast bowler, back together telling all the old stories.

There were plenty about our Nasser while Andy Caddick featured. Not to mention the time their team went tuk-tuk racing in Colombo.

The Dazzler has officially retired now after the Barmy Army scored the winning runs off his bowling in their match against talkSPORT the other day!

I caught up with former England star Darren Gough during day one of the action in Colombo

Ben Stokes lived dangerously at the start and could easily have gone before he'd scored had Sri Lanka not again wasted both their reviews in the first session.

For a batsman of his quality Ben gets hit on the pads too often. It's the same principle as when you're playing the sweep – you have to keep your eye on the ball and watch it onto the bat, especially in these conditions.

The Sinhalese Sports Club is a terrific ground. It has splendid seating, fans to keep you cool and air-conditioned suites.

I've spotted a flaw, though. You can't see the game from the lower tiers because of the high fence. What with being chucked out of their Kandy hotels this tour has been a testing one for some England fans. Still, you can't have everything…

It was the right decision to rest Jimmy Anderson for the final Test against Sri Lanka

It was quite right to rest Jimmy Anderson here. As I suggested after the second Test he's too valuable to flog now the series is won. Put your feet up Jim, the job has been done. Stuart Broad gets his chance on a pitch that has just a little more pace than the other two.

It was only last week England were saying Stokes was the ideal man for No 3 but here was Jonny Bairstow grabbing the job! That's five No 3s in the last five Tests but it's not been doing England any harm – they've won the lot!

My oh my Jonny B! What an emotional celebration that was. Losing his place as keeper has been hard to take for Bairstow but Joe Root told him he had a great opportunity to make No 3 his own.

How he took it here. Jonny needed that century for many reasons. He should be delighted with himself. He wears his heart on his sleeve. That's not a problem. It's all part of the package with Jonny.

====== 2038 ========

HOT OR NOT: ASHLEY COLE WAS WRONG TO SAY HE WAS A TRAILBLAZER FOR BLACK PLAYERS

It's Hot or Not time again as Sportsmail's Ian Ladyman reveals what's been making him feel warm and what's been leaving him cold this week.

HOT

OXFORD CITY FANS

The side from the Vanarama National League couldn't build on their heroic draw at Tranmere in the FA Cup, going down 2-0 at home in the replay.

However Mark Jones and his players at least bore witness to one of the season's great chants: 'You will never win the Boat Race,' was the ditty aimed at those in the away end.

JONNY BAIRSTOW

There has been far too much worry over how Bairstow would react to being deprived of the wicket keeper's position. He is no longer the best man for the job and should be left to get over it. This he did with a smashing tonne in Colombo. Proper Yorkshire grit, that.

Jonny Bairstow celebrates on day one of the third Test match against Sri Lanka in Colombo

RONALD KOEMAN

The Dutchman's private explanation for his failure to bring success to Everton is that there were too many people trying to buy players at the club and too often he wasn't one of them.

There may be something to that and it is testimony to him that he has recovered by taking Holland to the finals of the Nations League. It feels like Koeman has unfinished business in the Premier League and we hope he comes back one day.

Ronald Koeman celebrates on the touchline after leading Holland to the Nations League Finals

NOT

IKER CASILLAS

Casillas says he 'opted to be quiet in order to honour the values of Real Madrid' during his uncomfortable spell with Jose Mourinho at the Bernabeu.

Strictly speaking this is right, but the full truth is that the great goalkeeper was the divisive and subversive driving force behind Mourinho's problems with the Real dressing room and we would think better of him if he just admitted it.

Iker Casillas and Jose Mourinho did not see eye to eye during their time together at Real

ASHLEY COLE

The former England defender left a legacy for other modern full backs to follow. Nobody, for example, ever handled Cristiano Ronaldo better than the 37-year-old did when playing for Chelsea.

But to claim on an ITV documentary that he was a trailblazer for black players is bold. There were many who came before him and they did so in an era when things were much, much harder.

Ashley Cole claimed he was a trailblazer for black footballers representing England

THE IFAB

The meddlers at the International Football Association Board have recommended that from next season goalkeepers will only have to keep one foot on the goal-line when facing a penalty.

Currently most keepers are already a yard off their line at the point of contact, so why would we expect a new law to make any difference at all?

====== 2039 ========

HAVE ARSENAL IMPROVED IN DEFENCE? - TACKLE KEOWN

Sportsmail columnist Martin Keown answered your questions as the Premier League action returns with a bang following the international break with the London derby between Tottenham Hotspur and Chelsea.

Also on the agenda was Arsenal's defensive improvements under Unai Emery since Arsene Wenger's summer departure.

Scroll down to read back through Martin's answers to your questions.

If you are using the app, please click here to view today’s live blog

====== 2040 ========

THE SECRET SCOUT FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECRET SCOUT: The son of well-known Ipswich player Jason, Andre Dozzell has been the unfortunate victim of a bad injury which has handicapped his predicted glowing future after a handful of senior games. Still only 19, he looks as though he has had the determination to recover well from this adversity. ...read

====== 2041 ========

LLOYD KELLY IS MAKING HIS NAME AT BRISTOL CITY BUT NEEDS REGULAR RILE

Our scout is a top football expert who attends matches each week searching for the next star. He'll bring you his verdict for Sportsmail.

This week he has been keeping a close eye on Bristol City youngster Lloyd Kelly.

Tall and imposing, defender Lloyd Kelly is making a name for himself at Bristol City

LLOYD KELLY FACTS AGE: 20 CLUB: BRISTOL CITY POSITION: DEFENDER VALUE: £2m 2018-19 APPS: 15 GOALS: 1

What has he got?

Tall and imposing, Lloyd Kelly is making a name for himself at Bristol City.

A strong left-footer, he is making progress in the Championship but needs to gain a regular role in the position most suited to him.

He has been playing as a left back but I saw him play as a left centre back.

I like the way he played forward passes when not under pressure. I did not see him pass the ball under pressure, an important attribute to have, as this was a relatively comfortable afternoon for his team.

Nor did he attempt anything too ambitious, no 'Hollywood' cross-field passes to the right touchline. He covered well and gave good insurance to his main centre back.

Kelly is making progress but needs to gain a regular role in the position most suited to him

In a foot race to cover his left back, he proved speedy and slid the ball sensibly into touch. Once, when challenged in possession, he turned out brilliantly to clear.

Kelly has long legs and was able to challenge by throwing out his left foot while staying balanced. He did not go to ground as it was not necessary. His positioning was always good enough to avoid him having to make a last-ditch tackle.

He was constantly aware of developing attacks, moving sideways and co-ordinating with his back players on the proverbial 'piece of string'.

The 20-year-old needs to assess his distances more carefully when attacking the ball

What does he need?

Although 6ft3in, on two occasions in attempting to win a header from the opposing goalkeeper's kick, he tried to get there too early and completely misjudged his leap.

Overall, he coped in the air but needs to assess his distances more carefully when attacking the ball. Also, he may have closed down more quickly on two occasions when he allowed a forward the chance of a shot.

A shade more urgency was required and the danger for him may be complacency as, on this occasion, the game looked to come to him fairly easily.

But he will learn not to take chances and appears to have the right ingredients. Given regular first-team opportunities, he certainly has a chance.

====== 2042 ========

DEBORAH ROSSW: AN ASTOUNDING FILM. WE WILL REMEMBER IT

They Shall Not Grow Old

Sunday, BBC2

Rating:

Dynasties

Sunday, BBC1

Rating:

World War I. Poppies, Remembrance Sunday, two minutes’ silence, jittery black-and-white footage, growing up in the Sixties and seeing old men with a missing arm or leg, my friend’s grandfather who had been gassed and still screamed in the night, my own grandfather who refused to talk about any of it. But until Peter Jackson’s They Shall Not Grow Old I had never felt it. Not really. The closest I ever came to feeling it was, perhaps, the final scene of Blackadder Goes Forth, which is embarrassing but there you are. But Jackson’s film reached back down the years with such clarity it was as if you could stretch out to these men, some as young as 16, and touch them. He took them from history and put them alongside us. World War I was real and horrific. I know that now.

A colourised World War One picture of troops in Peter Jackson's new film, They Shall Not Grow Old

The film combined footage and audio from the Imperial War Museum archive. The footage, which had been stabilised, had also been sensitively colourised. It started in black and white but segued into colour after 20 minutes and it was electrifying. I don’t know why colour would have such an effect but suddenly these men were no longer from somewhere back then. They became alive. They became like you or I as every little detail leapt into life, particularly the expressiveness of faces. The teenage faces could have been of any boy shopping in Foot Locker today. The men’s faces could have been of the man who was behind you in Sainsbury’s just now. There were scenes of these men and boys, whom it felt like we could know, larking about – larking about with their German prisoners, even – but mostly it was snapshots of hell: bodies blown apart or black and bloated, horses blown apart, wounds, trench foot, dysentery.

The oral histories covered everything from the lice – ‘funny little things, like little lobsters’ – to the stench of decaying corpses – ‘nasty, sickly… bits of human body lying around became an everyday thing’ – to the realities of combat, ‘I suddenly had this pain in my left hand and looked down and saw a hole in it.’ Or it was, ‘A shell had hit this man. Knocked off his left arm and his left leg… He was calling out for mummy so I shot him. I had to. He’d have died in any case and I had to put him out of his misery.’ The voice then broke, tearfully, and said simply, ‘It hurt me.’

There were no talking heads or historians. Based on forensic lip-reading of the old footage, and voices provided by actors, sometimes the men even spoke for themselves. ‘Hello mum!’ one said as he passed the camera. ‘We’re in the pictures!’ exclaimed another. The narrative came from telling the story chronologically, from the men first signing up to their return after the war, where there was no hero’s welcome awaiting. Instead, it was mass unemployment and, most heartbreakingly, complete indifference. ‘They knew we came back covered in mud and lice but didn’t understand the strain of waiting for something to drop on your head… the magnitude was beyond their comprehension.’ They Shall Not Grow Old is the nearest we will ever get to comprehending and, although Peter Jackson directed all the Lord Of The Rings films, this is his masterpiece, and it will be his legacy too.

Combat and power was also the theme of the first of David Attenborough’s new series, Dynasties. It followed a group of chimpanzees in Senegal, West Africa, and in particular it followed David, the alpha male determined to hang onto being big boss. Four years in the making, it was stunningly filmed and powerfully emotive. In the night, two of David’s rivals, Jumpkin and Luther, set upon him, so that by the time the film crew arrived in the morning it looked like he was dead. A finger had been torn off. His injuries included a gruesome open gouge to the thigh. But, amazingly, he was still alive. The troop had moved on. Could he catch up and reinstate himself as leader?

It was visually stunning, like I said, but even though it is impossible not to see ourselves in chimps, it also felt too anthropomorphic as well as manipulative. In my mind I kept seeing the editing suite and the selection of footage based purely on the strictly male, Game Of Thrones-style story the makers had decided to tell. Where were the females? We saw them licking David’s wounds, which was astonishing, but otherwise they were undifferentiated and we never found out if they took sides or anything. All those babies David had fathered, did it make the mothers feel a particular allegiance to him? Or not?

The two shows are connected, in that Jackson’s film brought home how little changed we are from using violence to settle our power disputes, although you only have to look at the world today to see that too. I don’t know what the answer is. Let women have a go at running things? It’s probably worth a try.

====== 2043 ========

TOM UTLEY FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Over the years, people have sometimes asked if I ever make things up about family life in my articles. I suppose I should be mortally offended at the suggestion that I may be a liar, but I won’t pretend I don’t understand why they ask, says TOM UTLEY. To some, it must arouse suspicion that week after week, I claim to have personal experiences that appear uncannily relevant to items in the news. When the papers are full of stories about rights for disabled people, for example, you’ll find me stating that my father was totally blind from the age of nine. When politicians discuss the plight of single mothers, up I’ll pop, saying one of my sisters never got round to marrying the father of her daughter (not least, because he was — and as far as I know still is — married to somebody else). ...read

====== 2044 ========

TOM UTLEY: THE FIRST WORDS TO MY WIFE WERE ‘I’LL HAVE A PINT... AND YOUR HAND IN MARRIAGE’

Over the years, people have sometimes asked if I ever make things up about family life in my articles. I suppose I should be mortally offended at the suggestion that I may be a liar, but I won’t pretend I don’t understand why they ask.

To some, it must arouse suspicion that week after week, I claim to have personal experiences that appear uncannily relevant to items in the news.

When the papers are full of stories about rights for disabled people, for example, you’ll find me stating that my father was totally blind from the age of nine. When politicians discuss the plight of single mothers, up I’ll pop, saying one of my sisters never got round to marrying the father of her daughter (not least, because he was — and as far as I know still is — married to somebody else).

The boomerang generation? I’ll tell you that our own sons are forever bouncing back to the family nest, just when we thought we’d got rid of them for good. Adoption? I’ll claim my brother’s three beloved children are all adopted.

For good measure, I’ll even report that when I met her in 1979 she was working as a barmaid at my local, where the very first words I addressed to her were: ‘A pint of bitter, a packet of cheese and onion crisps and your hand in marriage, please’ (stock image)

Claims

Civil partnership rights for siblings? I’ll write that my two elderly sisters have lived together throughout their adult lives — yet by a gross injustice, they’re offered none of the tax advantages extended to couples in sexual relationships, gay or straight, who don’t happen to be related by blood.

If public transport is in the news, here I’ll be, claiming that Mrs U used to drive double-decker buses in London. If tax avoidance is topical, I’ll say she worked for an accountant who specialised in that very subject, looking after notorious tax avoiders such as St Bono of U2. If my subject for the week is abortion, I’ll write that she now works for the Society for the Protection of Unborn Children.

For good measure, I’ll even report that when I met her in 1979 she was working as a barmaid at my local, where the very first words I addressed to her were: ‘A pint of bitter, a packet of cheese and onion crisps and your hand in marriage, please.’

What can I say when people question my veracity, apart from protesting that every word I’ve written is true? My father really was completely blind from early childhood (and, yes, he did write speeches for Margaret Thatcher, who did indeed describe him after his death as: ‘Quite simply, the most distinguished Tory thinker of our time’).

In the same way, my three siblings’ family set-ups are exactly as I’ve described. It is also God’s own truth that my wife has had an extremely varied career, as a barmaid, bus driver and secretary to all sorts of people — including, since you ask, a wildly eccentric Italian restaurateur, an MP, a tax lawyer, a military historian, the publisher of Andrew Morton’s sensational book Diana: Her True Story and, yes, she now works for the boss of SPUC. All this, and for many years when the boys were growing up she was a stay-at-home mum.

But then there is nothing particularly unusual about my family. Or to put it another way, we are wholly unremarkable in our remarkableness. For such is the variety of human existence that there is no such thing as an ordinary family.

Indeed, few of us have to look far beyond our close friends and relatives to find people who have undergone extraordinary experiences, triumphs and tragedies — people in unconventional relationships, others who have fascinating obsessions or surprising achievements or people with tales to tell about maddening brushes with officialdom or the law.

What I’m saying is that in writing about family life — even a humdrum, suburban family life like mine — there’s no need to resort to fiction, since every family has real-life stories and characters enough to fill acres of newsprint on just about any subject under the sun.

Embellish

But I have another reason for sticking as rigidly as I can to the truth (though when my memory lets me down — as my sons are all too quick to tell me — I admit that I’ve occasionally got the odd detail wrong).

Yes, I understand the temptation to embellish a story in order to make it more interesting. But the fact is that the truth is so much easier to remember than a falsehood. And though I’d like to claim it’s pure piety that keeps me on the straight and narrow, it’s also the terror of telling a lie and then forgetting all about it, only to be caught out in an inconsistency later.

As Sir Walter Scott so wisely observed: ‘Oh what a tangled web we weave when first we practice to deceive!’

This week, a study by a U.S. university confirms what so many of us have found — that lying, and then remembering the lie, requires much more mental effort than simply coming out with the truth.

The researchers at Brandeis University (no, me neither) find that as our brains slow down with age, we become less accomplished at lying — and far more likely to be caught out when we do it.

Thus, we older folk should be very wary of making something up in order to get out of an unwelcome invitation. For example: ‘We’re so sorry, we won’t be able to make it to your party because we’re going to the theatre that night.’

The danger is that the next time you meet your spurned hostess, she’ll ask: ‘How was the play?’ And before you’ve collected your thoughts and remembered the lie, you’ll hear yourself answering: ‘What play? We haven’t been to the theatre for months.’

Mind you, we’ve all met young people who are rotten at lying, too. It starts from the earliest years, when the toddler with the chocolate-smeared face claims it must have been his brother who ate all the Cadbury mini rolls.

Moving up the age scale, I once had a colleague in his 20s who was forever taking days off work to attend his grandmother’s funeral. Most of us have only two grandmothers. He must have had about six.

Honest

But I’d like to think it’s not only because we become even worse at it, and more likely to be caught out, that we older people tell fewer lies than the young. Isn’t it also because we feel less need to excuse our behaviour, to conceal our innermost thoughts or impress others by exaggerating our achievements or qualifications?

I’m not saying any of us should be honest at all times, telling the missus her new dress makes her look ridiculous or informing our dinner-party hostess that the meal she’s served up is uneatable.

And I’m certainly not suggesting we should all be as truthful as my great-uncle Pat, who would answer the question ‘How are you?’ with a long description of all his aches and pains, starting with his gouty toes and working upwards from there. Half an hour later, he would still have got no further than his dicky hips, pausing only for breath before moving on to his digestive problems and chesty cough.

With Christmas on the way, however, we must all get into practice for lying, says TOM UTLEY

The correct answer to inquiries about our health is, and always has been: ‘Fine thanks.’

But the older I get, the less I feel the urge to pretend that I’ve read the book everyone’s talking about or to say I’m late for work because my train was cancelled, when in fact I’ve merely overslept after a heavy night at the local.

With Christmas on the way, however, we must all get into practice for lying, in preparation for the moment when we unwrap that garish tie or frock, contort our features into expressions of rapture and proclaim that it’s the smartest thing we’ve ever seen.

There are times and places for telling the unvarnished truth about what we think and feel. But whatever our ages may happen to be, Christmas definitely isn’t one of them.

====== 2045 ========

QUENTIN LETTS FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Last week Esther McVey was Secretary of State for Work and Pensions. Now, after a blazing Cabinet row with the May brigade, she was down on the Brexity backbenches. Down where they smoulder. During PMQs Miss McVey’s name may have been greeted with ‘oohs’ and hear-hears – the corrida hoping that she might spear the Prime Minister – but in the event she played it civil. ‘Can the Prime Minister assure the House today that the UK will be leaving the EU on March 29, 2019, come what may?’ ...read

====== 2046 ========

QUENTIN LETTS: THERESA MAY LOOKED CHIPPER IN THE COMMONS... MORE THAN SHE HAS FOR MANY A DAY

You can call bummalo ‘Bombay Duck’ but it is still fishy.

You can stick a Volvo grille on a rubber-banded Daf but it still whirrs like a sewing machine and the public won’t buy it.

Theresa May, defying these lessons, brought her draft EU departure plans to the Commons with their latest modifications at 3pm yesterday.

Prime Minister Theresa May gives a statement outside 10 Downing Street to announce that the UK and the EU agreed the draft political declaration on their future relationship

The House proved little more eager than before. On the Tory benches there were long faces.

Heads were shaken. Sir Bill Cash (Con, Stone) pushed out his cheeks and blew. Sorry, chef, but this dish of the day just ain’t shifting.

The Prime Minister, it must be said, looked chipper – more so than for many a day. At 12.45pm she had stepped out of the front door of Downing Street with an almost impertinent sashay and spoken to the nation in time for the lunchtime news bulletins.

Ian Duncan Smith, left, and the former Brexit secretary Dominic Raab , right. On the Tory benches there were long faces

She had opted for a coutoured, grey look, her fringe picking up the TV lights as she recited a longish statement from memory. As an act of performance, it wasn’t too bad.

The idea of that TV turn was to try to set the image of the day and ensure she was not simply depicted as a prisoner of the Commons. She was appealing to the country over and around the parliamentarians.

The new document giving rise to yesterday’s flurry was the full political declaration on our future trading relationship with the EU once transition is over. A few days ago this declaration was seven pages.

Jacob Rees Mogg watches Theresa May's Brexit statement in the House of Commons this afternoon

Now – abracadabra – it was 26 pages and contained a few fresh phrases. The one she was most proud of – and duly flourished – was its mention that Britain could have ‘an independent trade policy’.

Jeremy Corbyn had fun with the airiness of the document’s language but then he made the mistake of using the expression ‘this is waffle’.

Never say that in the Commons. The House will simply roar ‘YES!’ (believing that ‘this is waffle’ describes perfectly what you yourself are saying). Poor Mr Corbyn struggled to command the Chamber after that.

At one point he spoke of ‘section 107 of the document’. Given that he recently admitted he had not read the draft withdrawal agreement, the Tory benches ‘ooohed’ with mockery. Slow reader Jeremy had reached section 107? Gold star.

Jeremy Corbyn speaks to the House over the Brexit agreement. He had fun with the airiness of the document’s language but then he made the mistake of using the expression ‘this is waffle’

Mr Corbyn bellowed about how the document did not meet Labour’s ‘six tests’ for a proper Brexit. With that he resumed his seat and Sir Nicholas Soames (Con, Mid Sussex) practically burped out the despairing verdict ‘my God!’

Mrs May proceeded to run through those ‘six tests’ of Labour, asking, with each one, if it was met. ‘Yes!’ cried a few of the tamer Tories. ‘NOOOOO!’ came the rather louder volley from Labour MPs.

Sir Vince Cable, for the Lib Dems, thought the document ‘worryingly vague and pathetically weak’.

Tory blowhards pointed at Sir Vince, saying ‘that’s you!’ Eurosceptics were technical, polite, and firmly, immoveably, coldly unenthusiastic.

Democratic Unionist Sir Jeffrey Donaldson, pictured centre, told the House to scrap the backstop. Mrs May’s replies were as long and tangled as spaghetti [File photo]

Time and again they said Mrs May should remove the stuff about the Northern Irish backstop from her deal.

Iain Duncan Smith: ‘Strip it out.’ Owen Paterson: ‘Consider withdrawing it.’ Boris Johnson: ‘Junk forthwith the backstop.’ Kate Hoey (Lab, Vauxhall): ‘The backstop should be taken out.’

From Democratic Unionist Sir Jeffrey Donaldson: ‘We need to see an end of the backstop.’ Mrs May’s replies were as long and tangled as spaghetti.

Blairites showed they, too, could synchronise soundbites. Chuka Umunna (Lab, Streatham) said it was ‘a charter for years of uncertainty’. Ben Bradshaw (Lab, Exeter) predicted ‘years and years of more uncertainty’. Headmaaster, I do believe certain boys have been copying one another.

Dominic Raab, on his first appearance since quitting the Cabinet, reached the ‘regrettable but inescapable’ conclusion was that the PM had given away more powers than we were regaining via Brexit. Steve Baker (Con, High Wycombe) asked: ‘What other country would submit to these kind of agreements?’

The Tory Whips have work to do.

====== 2047 ========

RICHARD LITTLEJOHN FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Commuters and taxi drivers accused the police of indulging the demonstrators. Scotland Yard even put out a statement advising people not to travel by car or motorbike, adding that ‘attempting to drive through protesters in the road is dangerous and illegal’. So is blocking the road. It is a criminal offence, punishable by a £50 fine. Not nearly enough, if you ask me. More to the point, what the hell was all this disruption supposed to achieve? That’s the question LBC Radio’s Nick Ferrari put to one of the ringleaders, Roger Hallam, from an outfit calling itself Extinction Rebellion. When Hallam declined to offer any solutions, Ferrari cut him off. ...read

====== 2048 ========

RICHARD LITTLEJOHN: STOP THESE ROAD PROTESTS CLOGGING UP LONDON — CALL IN THE CHINGFORD SKINHEAD

The right to protest peacefully is an essential freedom in any democratic society. The right to make the lives of your fellow citizens a misery is not.

So let’s acknowledge that the self-styled environmental campaigners who took to the streets of London this week are perfectly entitled to promote their views.

What they’re not — or, at least, shouldn’t be — allowed to do is close roads and bridges, bringing swathes of the city to a standstill.

In the process, they caused serious inconvenience to tens of thousands of people trying to go about their lawful daily business.

This is the group causing chaos on the Elephant and Castle roundabout in South London on Wednesday, including pop star Jim Davidson, who was on his way to Folkestone for a gig

All week, demonstrators have been descending on main road junctions and river crossings, staging sit-down protests aimed deliberately at causing gridlock. Tailbacks stretched for miles, from Tower Bridge to Heathrow.

To be fair to the police, they did make 82 arrests last weekend when activists targeted five bridges. Some of those who had their collars felt glued themselves to government buildings. In which case, why not just leave them there? Then we all could have gone along and thrown rotten fruit at them.

But it was the weekday, rush-hour road closures which created the most disruption.

Commuters and taxi drivers accused the police of indulging the demonstrators. Scotland Yard even put out a statement advising people not to travel by car or motorbike, adding that ‘attempting to drive through protesters in the road is dangerous and illegal’.

So is blocking the road. It is a criminal offence, punishable by a £50 fine. Not nearly enough, if you ask me. Surely the advance warnings should have been directed at those planning to cause as much chaos as possible — not at law-abiding motorists.

Tower Bridge was also targeted by a swarming roadblock of activists on Wednesday - but police have not arrested anyone over the problems they caused

How many people were late for work, how many children were late for school? How many important business meetings were cancelled? How many long-awaited GP and hospital appointments were missed? More to the point, what the hell was all this disruption supposed to achieve? We’re still none the wiser.

The organisers say they want to put pressure on the Government to do more to tackle climate change. What, for instance? That’s the question LBC Radio’s Nick Ferrari put to one of the ringleaders, Roger Hallam, from an outfit calling itself Extinction Rebellion.

What precisely should Britain do? Er, cut carbon emissions by 2025, Hallam said, accusing the Government of ‘criminal inaction’ to prevent the polar ice caps melting. Ferrari tried to pin him down on specifics. Did they want to ban cars, perhaps? Should everyone be forced to travel by bicycle?

When Hallam declined to offer any solutions, Ferrari cut him off.

The only conclusion we can draw from all this is that the demonstration, like most of these self-indulgent demos, was simply about drawing attention to themselves. In this case, the protesters may claim to love the polar bears, but they clearly have little regard for their fellow citizens.

Protesters from the Extinction Rebellion group hold banners at Elephant and Castle on Wednesday. The organisers say they want to put pressure on the Government to do more to tackle climate change

Getting around London is already an ordeal — thanks, primarily, to the ludicrous and ruinously expensive network of largely deserted cycle lanes built in the name of, yes, tackling climate change. Did it not occur to Hallam and his fellow layabouts that if they want to save the planet, erecting human roadblocks is an inter-galactically stupid way of going about it?

Forcing cars, buses, taxis and emergency vehicles to sit in deliberately manufactured traffic jams, revving their engines, only increases the amount of exhaust emissions released into the atmosphere.

Lest you think this column is a little London-centric, there have already been smaller-scale Extinction Rebellion protests in Bristol, Manchester and Glasgow. We can all brace ourselves for more of this kind of aggravation from the anti-car fanatics.

Look, I accept that the police have to perform a difficult balancing act. But their primary job should be to keep the roads open and the city moving.

Climate change activists are blocking roads across London to cause gridlock. Pictured, one of the demonstrations on the A5 in London yesterday

They could have done with Boris Johnson’s water cannon, foolishly flogged off to the lowest bidder this week.

Though tempers were understandably frayed, drivers and passengers caught up in the chaos acted with commendable restraint. How much longer the peace can be maintained if these protests are to become a regular occurrence remains to be seen.

Comedian Jim Davidson, once a staunch supporter of police charities, had a few choice words with officers on the scene after being stranded by the protest at the busy Elephant and Castle junction in South London.

A motorist drives through the protest at the Minories near Tower Bridge in London on Wednesday

Meanwhile, at Tower Bridge, a geography student who stood in the road, waving a banner and blocking traffic, claimed that former Tory attack dog Norman Tebbit, now 87, drove slowly into her, brushing her leg. ‘He looked incredibly angry,’ she complained. ‘He was mouthing things at me through the window.’

Can anybody blame him? Instead of moaning, she should reflect that she may have had a lucky escape.

Back in the Eighties, when he was known as the Chingford Skinhead, Norman was instrumental in smashing Arthur Scargill’s flying pickets during the miners’ strike. In those days, I couldn’t imagine him letting a bunch of soppy student activists stand in his way, let alone shut down half of London.

Bring on the water cannon!

====== 2049 ========

SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Few memoirs of a showbusiness childhood have been as candid as those of Alexander Newley, son of Dame Joan Collins and the second of her five husbands, composer and actor Anthony Newley. Alexander recalled that his father ‘lived to screw’ — and found an ‘endless cattle call’ of naked young women willing to gratify his desires on the sun-kissed beaches of California. SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE can disclose, Newley, 53, a highly accomplished artist, is penning a second volume. But although the first, Unaccompanied Minor, covered just the first 14 years of his life, the follow-up will leap ahead to his mid-30s living in Los Angeles as a carefree bachelor. ...read

====== 2050 ========

STEPHEN GLOVER FOR THE DAILY MAIL

STEPHEN GLOVER: 'Theresa May already has enough problems on her hands with the Democratic Unionist Party and Tory Brexiteers proclaiming they will vote against her deal in the Commons next month'. Just when she least needed another set of anxieties, the Spanish government has tossed a potentially lethal grenade in her direction. It is threatening to scupper the Brexit agreement because it is unhappy with a section of the draft withdrawal agreement concerning Gibraltar. At the same time, its foreign minister, Josep Borrell, has let fly by suggesting that Brexit could split apart the United Kingdom. He claims to be ‘very much more worried’ about the unity of the UK than of Spain.' Pictured, Theresa May outside No 10 Downing Street. ...read

====== 2051 ========

HOW DARE SPAIN OF ALL NATIONS TRY TO LECTURE BRITAIN ABOUT DEMOCRACY

Theresa May already has enough problems on her hands with the Democratic Unionist Party and Tory Brexiteers proclaiming they will vote against her deal in the Commons next month.

Just when she least needed another set of anxieties, the Spanish government has tossed a potentially lethal grenade in her direction. It is threatening to scupper the Brexit agreement because it is unhappy with a section of the draft withdrawal agreement concerning Gibraltar.

At the same time, its foreign minister, Josep Borrell, has let fly by suggesting that Brexit could split apart the United Kingdom. He claims to be ‘very much more worried’ about the unity of the UK than of Spain.

The Democratic Unionist Party and Tory Brexiteers proclaim they will vote against Theresa May's deal in the Commons next month. Pictured, Theresa May outside No 10 Downing Street.

And, in a move bound to cheer Nicola Sturgeon and the SNP, he says Spain has dropped its historic opposition to Scotland joining the EU as an independent country. Madrid had hitherto tried to discourage nationalists in Catalonia by insisting that it would block Scottish membership of the Union.

I must say that, on the eve of Sunday’s planned EU summit, none of this is very friendly or helpful. By announcing that Scotland would be welcomed with open arms, Mr Borrell seems almost to be willing the disintegration of the United Kingdom.

What is the Spanish government playing at? Gibraltar has of course long been a bone of contention, with Madrid laying claim to the Rock, which was ceded to Britain in 1713.

Here one must say, with all possible courtesy, that Spain’s obsession with Gibraltar sometimes verges on the deranged. In a 1967 referendum, 99.6 per cent of Gibraltar’s citizens voted to remain British. In 2002, a proposal for joint sovereignty was rejected by 98 per cent of Gibraltarians.

Some people might have got the message by now that pretty well everyone in the tiny territory would prefer to stay British, thank you very much. But a succession of testosterone-driven Spanish politicians will not listen.

One of the ironies of this story, so grotesque that it is hard not to be amused, is that Madrid vehemently defends its right to retain two historic enclaves in Morocco, called Ceuta and Melilla. The Moroccan government periodically grumbles about this anomaly.

Spain’s sovereignty over Ceuta and Melilla is, to its way of thinking, beyond reproach, even though it’s not at all clear that all the inhabitants of the two enclaves are joyful subjects. But Gibraltar, whose people are thoroughly happy being British, should belong to Spain. Get it?

All this has blown up because Gibraltar will leave the EU on March 29 next year along with the UK, though it should be said that 96 per cent of its citizens voted Remain on an 82 per cent turnout. However, there’s no evidence that any of them are hankering after rule from Madrid.

Why is the Spanish government so upset? Because it believes that Article 184 of the draft withdrawal agreement implies that the future of the territory will be decided by the EU and the UK, without Spain necessarily being involved.

This is a case of paranoia. Spain is certain to be consulted by both parties, and is constantly talking about Gibraltar with the British Government. The truth is that politicians in Madrid are puffing out their chests with characteristic machismo.

I would be surprised if they do upset the deal, though one can’t be sure. In a narrow sense, this is a squabble about virtually nothing, since, as I have said, Spain will continue to be included in discussions.

But the outburst reminds us just how fixated all Spanish governments (the present one is Left-wing) are on Gibraltar, and how weak is their adherence to democratic principles.

So far as Madrid is concerned, Gibraltar should be Spanish because it is part of the Spanish mainland, and was inveigled by Perfidious Albion a very long time ago. It seems hardly to weigh with them that the vast majority of people in the territory understandably see themselves as British.

Spain has threatened to block the Brexit deal if it does not get a veto over how any future trade deal applies to Gibraltar (pictured)

In this view of things, sovereignty has its roots in land, not in the hearts of citizens. This idea was perfectly demonstrated last autumn, when the Catalan government in Barcelona decided to call a referendum on independence, which resulted in a large Leave majority on a relatively small turnout.

Arguably, the Catalan nationalists overplayed their hand. But nothing can excuse the response of the Madrid Government. Its police bludgeoned and assaulted defenceless voters who were simply trying to exercise their democratic right. Some 900 people were said to be injured.

After the vote, the Spanish government summarily dissolved the Catalan Parliament and arrested leading Catalan politicians. President Puigdemont and others managed to escape to Belgium, but were forced to flee to Germany after Madrid issued European arrest warrants alleging crimes of rebellion and sedition.

These warrants have now been suspended but Puigdemont and his colleagues dare not return to Spain for fear that they will be arrested and thrown into jail.

None of this sounds very civilised, does it? And so when Josep Borrell says that he thinks Spain will remain a united state for longer than the United Kingdom, I can’t help shaking my head in disbelief.

Spain — which, let’s face it, is a very young democracy, though of course a great country — refused to allow a referendum on independence in Catalonia. When the Catalans went ahead and held one of their own, the Spanish state cracked down on them in a pretty brutal way.

Spain's Foreign Minister, Josep Borrell, has let fly by suggesting that Brexit could split apart the United Kingdom. He claims to be ‘very much more worried’ about the unity of the UK than of Spain

By contrast, Westminster — a very much older democracy — acceded to the SNP’s request for a referendum on independence in 2014. No one can doubt that if a majority of the Scottish people had voted to leave the UK, their wish would have been honoured. The Spanish way, pretty openly endorsed by Brussels, was to rely on coercion. The British way, at any rate in the 21st century, was to rely on persuasion and open debate, and to accept the powerful democratic idea that people should be governed with their consent.

Only a fool would deny that the United Kingdom faces challenges to its survival as a unitary state. But I venture to suggest that consent is likely to keep it together longer than Spain will be held together by force.

What has happened in Catalonia is that a long-established longing for independence has been quelled, but it has not been extinguished. Sooner or later it will rise again. What will politicians in Madrid then do?

As for Gibraltar, in the unlikely event of a majority of its people ever wanting to exchange their British citizenship for Spanish, I have no doubt that their desire would be granted. It is partly the sure knowledge that it would be that makes them want to stay British.

How we flagellate ourselves at the moment during these wrangles over Brexit. We are said to be the laughing stock of Europe. Our democracy is spoken of as dysfunctional. Many of us feel a bit down in the dumps.

But when I look at Spain, and hear its foreign minister cheerfully prophesying the break-up of the United Kingdom; when I see Spanish politicians casting avaricious eyes on the Rock of Gibraltar — why, then I am still very glad to be British.

====== 2052 ========

ANDREW PIERCE FOR THE DAILY MAIL

The soul of discretion, Sir Brady, above, unusually spoke out yesterday in an interview on the BBC in what was seen as a warning to MPs not to challenge the PM. Brady steadied May’s nerve when he went to see her in the 48 hours after last year’s botched general election when she was at her most vulnerable. If she manages to see off any new leadership challenge, May will be tempted to reshuffle her ministers to try to reassert her authority. Brady could be offered a Cabinet job. A Brexiteer, he has long had his eyes on the Tory chairmanship. Current chairman Brandon Lewis should take note. Theresa May (pictured in her Downing Street office last week) is mounting a fight back after she was hit with a slew of cabinet resignations over her draft agreement to leave the EU and an increasingly likely no confidence vote ...read

====== 2053 ========

ANDREW PIERCE: WILL SIR GRAHAM 'KEEP CALM AND CARRY ON' BRADY GET A TOP TORY JOB?

When Sir Graham Brady, chairman of the Conservative Party’s 1922 committee, was seen going into No 10 by the back door last week there was a frisson of excitement at Westminster.

Was Brady, the man Tory MPs write to if they want a leadership contest, going to tell Theresa May the 48-letter threshold necessary for a challenge had been passed?

In fact, he was having a personal briefing with May’s officials on the 585-page withdrawal document.

Sir Graham Brady, chairman of the Conservative Party’s 1922 committee, appeared on BBC One's Sunday Politics. The Brexiteer could be offered a job in May's Cabinet

The soul of discretion, Brady unusually spoke out yesterday in an interview on the BBC in what was seen as a warning to MPs not to challenge the PM.

Brady steadied May’s nerve when he went to see her in the 48 hours after last year’s botched general election when she was at her most vulnerable.

If she manages to see off any new leadership challenge, May will be tempted to reshuffle her ministers to try to reassert her authority.

Brady could be offered a Cabinet job. A Brexiteer, he has long had his eyes on the Tory chairmanship. Current chairman Brandon Lewis should take note.

Theresa May (pictured in her Downing Street office last week) is mounting a fight back after she was hit with a slew of cabinet resignations over her draft agreement to leave the EU and an increasingly likely no confidence vote

Support for May, the vicar’s daughter, arrives from neighbouring Tory MP for Windsor Adam Afriyie: ‘With so many against her, our PM must be beatified if she succeeds in getting a deal through the Commons under these conditions'.

A person is beatified by the Pope only when they are dead and if they have faithfully lived a holy life and/or died a martyr’s death.

The PM may feel she is being politically crucified, but, thank Heaven, she is still very much alive and kicking. For now.

====== 2054 ========

PIERS MORGAN FOR MAILONLINE

As Americans burned alive, their President’s first thought was money, threats and blame. He wasn’t even correct in his criticism - but even if he had been right, this was not the time to say it. All he had to do was offer a bit of empathy. Trump’s failure to say anything remotely resembling empathy for another 24 hours was not just appalling, it was totally unnecessary and self-defeating. Incredibly, this wasn’t even his worst empathy failure of the weekend. That came when he failed to honor slain American Marines because of the RAIN. ...read

====== 2055 ========

PIERS MORGAN'S ADVICE TO WOMEN ON INTERNATIONAL MEN'S DAY

I have a confession. I am a man. The worst? I'm actually proud to be a man and I like being masculine

I have a confession to make.

This isn’t easy, and I’ve taken a long time to summons up the strength to do it.

I’m aware that just by admitting to what I’m about to admit, I will subject myself to all manner of global shame and ridicule.

I’ll be taunted, abused, shunned and reviled.

But as Sir Winston Churchill once so rightly said: ‘You have enemies? Good. That means you’ve stood up for something, sometime in your life.’

OK, here goes…

I am a man.

Yes, on International Men’s Day 2018, I am hereby identifying as the biological sex that I was born to.

This alone is enough to risk making me a social pariah these days, but that’s not even the worst of it.

I’m a man who’s actually proud of being a man, and who also likes being MASCULINE.

Sorry.

I realise this is a horrendous thing to say, and I can only offer my insincere apologies to all the radical feminists now exploding with rage as they read my shocking statement.

If there’s one thing they loathe even more than the M-word, it’s the longer M-word.

But why?

Masculinity simply means ‘having qualities or appearances traditionally associated with men.’

That’s it, nothing more sinister.

Yet thanks to women of radical feminist persuasion who’ve gleefully hijacked the #MeToo and #TimesUp campaigns to serve their own man-hating purpose, masculinity has become the most controversial, detestable word in the English lexicon.

And it’s now impossible to be ‘masculine’ without also being accused of ‘toxic masculinity’.

Radical feminists (here's Madonna in her shirt touting her 'radical' position) have hijacked the #MeToo and #TimesUp campaigns to serve their own man-hating purpose, masculinity has become the most controversial, detestable word in the English lexicon

Even Prince Charming whisking Cinderella off from captive hell to a life of happiness is an evil that must be expunged from society – led by furious Keira Knightley and her ultra feminist knights in PC armour.

‘Cinderella waits for a rich guy to rescue her,’ she sneered. ‘Don’t. Rescue yourself! Obviously!’

Fine empowering words until you remember that the Prince gallantly saved Cinderella from abuse and slavery and they genuinely loved each other.

Then it doesn’t seem quite so ‘obvious’, does it?

One of the very worst of the many terrible things about radical feminism is the scourge of pathetic male virtue-signallers that urge them on.

As an obvious (or so I thought..) tongue-in-cheek joke this morning, I tweeted: ‘Happy #InternationalMensDay! Stay strong lads, we’re not illegal – yet.’

Most people reacted in the way I would react if someone else had tweeted that – by laughing.

Others weren’t so amused, bombarding me with hateful abuse about my supposed ‘toxic masculinity’.

A man named Box Brown, who has a verified Twitter account and claims to be a New York Times best-selling cartoonist, replied simply: ‘Die.’

How laughably hypocritical; this angry little clown races to attack what he presumably perceives to be my aggressive maleness, yet does so by saying he wants me dead.

Hypocrisy is sadly a prevalent theme with much of modern feminism.

The likes of Kim Kardashian and Emily Ratajkowski have both built hugely lucrative careers out of stripping off in the supposed name of ‘feminist empowerment’.

Hypocrisy is sadly a prevalent theme with much of modern feminism. Kim Kardashian and Emily Ratajkowski have built lucrative careers out of stripping off for ‘feminist empowerment’

When in fact what they’re really doing is selling nudity and sex.

I have no problem with that - just don’t pretend it benefits any other woman or is anything that Emmeline Pankhurst and her Suffragettes would have ever done.

They were too busy risking their lives to win women the right to vote, than to have time to writhe naked in spaghetti and ludicrously claim they were doing so to liberate womankind.

When I say this kind of thing, women ask me to cite an example of what I consider real feminist empowerment.

So let me give you one from yesterday, when a 17-year old German girl driver named Sophia Flörsch was competing in her first Formula 3 World Cup race at the Macau Grand Prix.

The race featured male and female drivers, and she qualified purely on merit.

On the fourth lap, she struck another driver’s car as she approached a bend at 175mph.

The collision caused Sophia’s car to spin out of control and catapult several hundred yards through the air into a wall.

It’s the most horrifying car crash I have ever seen, and everyone who watches it would presume she must have died.

But Sophia lived, despite fracturing her spine.

After a terrifying crash Sophia Flörsch tweeted: ‘Just wanted to let everybody know that I am fine but will be going into surgery tomorrow morning. Thanks to everybody for the supporting messages. Update soon.’ No fuss, no playing the victim

And within a few hours, she tweeted: ‘Just wanted to let everybody know that I am fine but will be going into surgery tomorrow morning. Thanks to everybody for the supporting messages. Update soon.’

No fuss, no playing the victim.

Can you even imagine the scale of self-pitying hell that would be unleashed on the unsuspecting public if any of the Kardashians had a minor 25mph car prang today in which they broke a diamond-encrusted toenail?

Sophia has an incredible talent for driving a car, and incredible courage too. She is a rising star in a male-dominated sport determined to prove she can mix it with the men and I applaud her for it.

THAT is true feminist empowerment – not flipping the bird in topless selfies to millions of impressionable young girls.

While I joke about International Men’s Day, of course I understand and appreciate there is a very serious side to it too.

The stats tell the grim story: 76% of suicides are men, 85% of homeless people are men, 70% of homicide victims are men, men serve 64% longer in prison and are 3.4x more likely to be imprisoned than women when both committed the same crime.

So it’s not all a patriarchal bed of roses being a man.

But I fully accept that women have historically been treated unfairly in terms of equality, and that many women continue to be treated unfairly.

I also fully accept that women have been subjected to far more harassment, sexual abuse and domestic violence than men.

That is where the #MeToo and #TimesUp movements have performed a valuable public service in highlighting and exposing genuinely bad, unacceptable and in some cases criminal behaviour.

In fact, I don’t know any of my male friends who wouldn’t agree with that.

However, what I refuse to accept is that all masculinity is therefore now automatically a bad thing or that being a man is suddenly something to be ashamed about.

Nor do I believe that most women actually want the kind of neutered, emasculated, papoose-clad, permanently apologising doormats that radical feminists are trying to make us become.

Let me therefore offer some friendly advice from a man who loves women:

Men like me don’t want to hear that universities (and one in Wales, UK actually did this,.) have banned the word ‘mankind’ because it’s offensive to women, not least because ‘women’ itself contains the word ‘men’.

We don’t want to be told we can’t appreciate a female star’s beauty because it’s offensive to feminists, then see feminists like Ellen de Generes openly objectifying famous men’s bodies at awards shows - to no complaint.

We don’t want to be informed that James Bond has to stop hitting on women because it’s now deemed politically incorrect, especially as none of the women he ever hits on seem to be anything but ecstatically thrilled about it.

We don’t want to be disapprovingly frowned at for opening doors for women or standing up for them on trains or when they walk into a room, or paying the bill for dinner if we want to. Chivalry is a good, not oppressive thing.

We want to pride ourselves on being a protective modern day hunter and provider, in whatever capacity that manifests itself to the benefit of a woman or family - without promptly being labelled a ‘dinosaur’ or ‘caveman’.

We’d like to preserve the right not to be seen blubbing in public every five minutes just to prove we’re in touch with our emotional side.

In short, we’d just like to still enjoy being men if that’s OK?

Just as we’d like women to enjoy being women.. and yes, for gender-fluids to enjoy being men AND women if that makes them happy.

The best conversation I’ve had about all this was with the singer Annie Lennox who said it was ‘important to bring men with you’ on the feminist journey.

‘But,’ she cautioned, ‘the debate has to be less hostile to men for that to happen.’

Exactly.

====== 2056 ========

MAIL ON SUNDAY COMMENT FOR THE DAILY MAIL

It is hard to justify the vast differences between the Western way of life and the conditions endured by those who live in the poorer parts of the world. It is only because their poverty is so far away from us that we can keep it out of our minds. But sometimes the contrast is too much to bear. How can it possibly be right for a super-rich football club such as Manchester United to sell – for as much as £110 – a shirt made by women in Cambodian sweatshops for wages as little as 64p an hour? ...read

====== 2057 ========

MAIL ON SUNDAY COMMENT: ENOUGH OF THIS GRANDSTANDING IF MPS DON’T BACK MRS MAY THEY’LL UNLEASH CHAOS

The tumult and the shouting may at last be dying away. The time for slogans and cheap jibes is over. Dogma is giving way to practicality. We and our leaders are looking hard fact in the face and deciding what is possible and what is not.

There was a moment last week when the foundations of everything trembled. In response to Theresa May’s Brexit deal, some Ministers began to resign.

The markets shuddered and fell. If those resignations had turned into the avalanche that some hoped for, who knows when we would have hit the bottom?

Imagine for a moment that Mrs May had been swept from office, her bargain utterly repudiated. Imagine that the Tory Party was at its own throat, embroiled in a leadership election with no obviously good outcome.

Theresa May holds a press conference at 10 Downing Street, London, to discuss her Brexit plans

Picture the state of our economy and our democracy if we had by now been slithering unstoppably towards a General Election which the public do not want, and in which they could be expected to punish the party that brought it about.

These were all real possibilities, and we still cannot entirely rule them out.

We are not out of the Brexit crisis yet, and the nation’s interests over the next few weeks lie in the hands of a small number of men and women who will have to continue to put country before career and quite possibly country before party.

Few expected the great Brexit referendum to lead to the unsatisfactory and patchy compromise which the Prime Minister now places before us.

The referendum, a method of decision-making quite alien to our parliamentary system, raised impossible hopes of absolute victory, in a country that has for centuries respected minorities and treated them with consideration.

Dogmatists and cheerleaders on both sides hoped for complete triumph for their cause. Remainers hoped to silence Eurosceptics for good.

Leavers hoped for total liberation from the thousand grasping tentacles of Brussels. The desires of both could not possibly be met. The desires of neither have been fully satisfied.

So the adult response, on both sides, must surely be, as The Mail on Sunday has argued since the vote, to respect the democratic legitimacy of the result while never forgetting the fears and reservations of the very large minority.

This, to her enormous personal credit, has been the Prime Minister’s approach. Laying aside her own undoubted Remainer views, enduring a great deal of mockery and abuse, and recognising that her party will probably never forgive her, she has worked with laudable, calm resolve for her country’s best interests.

It has never been easy. The Civil Service, one of the most powerful lobbies for remaining, has hardly helped, by approaching Brexit as a damage-limitation exercise rather than as an opportunity. David Davis, in his time as Brexit Secretary, failed to live up to his promise.

The EU itself had no interest in helping us, its slippery obduracy reminding us once again why so many have wished for so long to be free of it.

David Davis MP (left) and Jacob Rees-Mogg MP (right) attend the launch of the Institute of Economic Affairs latest Brexit research paper, in central London

The Labour Party, riven by its own deep divisions, has stood and watched, hoping to profit unjustly from Tory civil strife. And it would be hugely unjust if it did, for Jeremy Corbyn – though he hides it well – loathes the EU as an obstacle to his Marxist plans for renewed state control.

Meanwhile, his EU spokesman, Sir Keir Starmer, still dreams of keeping us in the EU. But both collaborate on the same front bench, hoping to gain from Mrs May’s troubles.

Their cynicism is matched, if not outdone, among Tories. Dominic Raab’s nonsensical resignation, in supposed protest at a deal he had himself helped to negotiate, will be remembered as an act of irresponsibility rather than one of principle. It is hard to make any sense at all of Esther McVey’s walk-out.

And there has to be a whiff of careerism about the other minor departures lower down the pecking order of ministers.

Jacob Rees-Mogg has generally been a thoughtful and courteous critic of Downing Street – though his impromptu Westminster press conference last week was a rash mistake, as he probably realises.

But real praise should go to Michael Gove, whose decision to stay in his post on Friday almost certainly prevented a disastrous further mass of resignations.

Mr Gove is now showing that he has learned from the past and that, like Mrs May, he knows when to put the nation first and everything else last.

His refusal to join the rush to quit has kept a number of major figures in the Cabinet and allowed Mrs May a breathing space.

It has also chastened those who had hoped to trigger a no-confidence vote in the Premier. Now they are afraid that such a vote – which can only be held once a year – might backfire on them.

If their putsch failed, it would guard Mrs May from any other attempts to remove her during the crucial months between now and Brexit Day at the end of March.

Environment Secretary Michael Gove arrives at his office in Westminster, London this week

Even so, Mrs May must be concerned that Mr Gove is among several Brexiteer Ministers who are still talking about going back to Brussels to see if more concessions can be won. This is entirely understandable.

The deal is far from perfect. But it is also a dangerous game, as David Cameron found when he unwisely relied on the EU shifting its ground to help him win over his domestic critics.

If the Cabinet Brexiteers make their continued support for Mrs May dependent on such concessions, and none are forthcoming, we could be back to square one.

If Mr Gove is to complete his task he must explain to his colleagues that nothing should be done that would endanger a final agreement on a negotiated Brexit. What Tory MPs, Tory constituency leaders – and come to that Labour MPs as well – must now understand is this:

If they destroy Mrs May’s deal, there is absolutely no guarantee that any of her various opponents and critics will get what they want. It is not just that nobody will get what they want. It is that almost everybody may get what they do not want. In the chaos that follows such a breakdown, several dangerous things might happen.

We might find ourselves outside the EU without any agreement at all, an outcome which would be deeply dangerous for the economy and which could create an unprecedented political crisis.

There might be a second referendum, a false non-solution which would do grave and lasting damage to our democracy without resolving the issue.

Or we might even end up still stuck inside the EU, having wasted more than two years on futile wrangling. Only a cynic, or a fanatical dogmatist, could desire any of these things.

The people of the United Kingdom have had quite enough wrangling, self-seeking, grandstanding and pettifogging from those they elected to lead them.

They know better than their insulated and pampered leaders that in real life, and in politics, we seldom get everything we want.

All those MPs in all parties who are seriously concerned with the well-being of the country must show responsibility, forbearance and an adult willingness to compromise.

Each of them sought the power and responsibility they now hold and each has been well-rewarded for it.

Now they must show they are worthy of the high positions and the great trust we have given them. They must back the Prime Minister. It is the only responsible course.

If they do not take it, they will never be forgiven for the chaos they unleash.

====== 2058 ========

DAILY MAIL COMMENT

There was a time when loyalty and respect were part of the Conservative Party’s essential DNA. Neither was in evidence yesterday, as hard-line Tory Brexiteers turned on UK Prime Minister Theresa May (pictured) in a deeply unedifying display of petulant defiance. Having toiled for more than two years against daunting odds to secure a Brexit deal which honoured the referendum result, Theresa May might at least have hoped for the support of her own side for her Stakhanovite efforts — possibly even an ounce or two of gratitude. Instead, she and her draft agreement were greeted with contempt by the peacocking saboteurs, whose antics risk saddling this country with the worst of all possible Brexit outcomes. ...read

====== 2059 ========

DAILY MAIL COMMENT: STOICAL FIGHTER THERESA MAY MIGHT YET WIN THE DAY

This dramatic week in politics could have ended on a tremendous high. It began so encouragingly, when Theresa May was at last able to announce that she had struck a deal with the EU, after thousands of hours of negotiations.

Businesses were exultant. Billions of pounds in investment funds, kept on hold while uncertainty prevailed, seemed about to be unleashed. The pound perked up and share prices rose.

All over the UK, people bored to tears by the Brexit debate – and anxious to get on with implementing the referendum result – breathed a heartfelt sigh of relief. Finally, substantial progress had been made.

This dramatic week in politics could have ended on a tremendous high. It began so encouragingly, when Theresa May was at last able to announce that she had struck a deal with the EU, after thousands of hours of negotiations

True, Leavers and Remainers alike agreed the deal was very far from perfect. But wise heads accepted that as in all negotiations – never mind those involving the competing interests of 28 nations – compromise was inevitable.

Despite the opportunist posturing of the Labour hierarchy, it seemed a majority of MPs were ready to swallow their reservations, put their constituents’ interests first and back the deal.

But that was before the revolt by hardline Tory Brexiteers, who had spent the years since the referendum plotting among themselves and congratulating each other on their ideological purity.

With a peacock display of self-importance, seven resigned from the Government (though only two of them – Dominic Raab and Esther McVey – had fleetingly crossed the public’s radar), weeping crocodile tears for the pain they were causing Mrs May.

Meanwhile, their backbench guru Jacob Rees-Mogg viciously attacked the Prime Minister in the Commons, before calling a Press conference to drawl that he had lost confidence in her. He, like Labour, would be voting against the deal – and, what’s more, he would be joining colleagues in demanding a leadership election.

What he hopes to achieve is anyone’s guess. It’s easy to see what’s in it for Labour, as a successful plot to oust Mrs May could well precipitate an election.

Businesses were exultant. Billions of pounds in investment funds, kept on hold while uncertainty prevailed, seemed about to be unleashed. The pound perked up and share prices rose

This would offer Jeremy Corbyn and John McDonnell their dreamed-of chance to wreak economic destruction, confiscating private property and nationalising everything short of the air we breathe.

But what on Earth makes Mr Rees-Mogg and Co think a new occupant of No 10 could do better than Mrs May in forging a deal acceptable to both Parliament and the EU? The fact is their treachery puts any form of Brexit in jeopardy.

Indeed, you have only to contrast their ideology-driven disloyalty with Mrs May’s tireless, resilient and ever-courteous pursuit of the national interest – qualities that shine from the Mail’s interview today – to see who is more in touch with the real world.

All over the UK, people bored to tears by the Brexit debate – and anxious to get on with implementing the referendum result – breathed a heartfelt sigh of relief. Finally, substantial progress had been made

The good news is that the saboteurs’ attempted coup d’etat already seems a damp squib. By late yesterday, there was still no sign they’d mustered the 48 letters needed to trigger a motion of no confidence in the Prime Minister – let alone the 166 supporters needed to carry it.

Meanwhile, prominent Brexiteers such as Michael Gove and Chris Grayling are standing by Mrs May, while Miss McVey’s Work and Pensions Department has passed seamlessly to the returning Amber Rudd. If Mr Rees-Mogg thought he had only to say the word and the heavens would fall in, he has cause to think again.

As for any Tory Leavers considering joining the rebellion, they should reflect that for all its faults – correctable over time – Mrs May’s deal charts a smooth exit from the monstrous bureaucracy of the EU.

Realistically, the only alternatives are the economic havoc of an abrupt and juddering exit – or no Brexit at all. Add the danger of installing Marxists in Downing Street, and are they really prepared to inflict such risks on the public?

====== 2060 ========

RICHARD KAY FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Many a royal heart was in mouth as the pair, with Edward brandishing a hand saw, stepped on to the stage for the highlight of a riotous and joyful celebration at Buckingham Palace.Even Prince Philip, who makes only rare appearances at family events these days, was on hand to join the toasts led by the Queen for their eldest son. If hers was the warmest and wittiest of tributes – in which she labelled her son ‘a duchy original’ in reference to his organic food brand – it was Prince William who brought the house down with a tongue in cheek, if heavy-handed joke at his father’s expense. Father and son have not always enjoyed the easiest of relationships, but William showed he was a chip off the royal block with remarks that remained, just, inside the boundaries of propriety. His speech, complete with theatrical pauses, began with him saying: ‘Let me tell you all the things my father hates... red squirrels, the environment, traditional architecture.’ Warming to his theme, he listed the Prince of Wales’ subsidiary titles – titles he will one day inherit. ...read

====== 2061 ========

RICHARD KAY REVEALS PRINCE CHARLES'S EXTRAORDINARY 70TH BIRTHDAY

Over the years there has been many a time when Prince Charles wished that the disappearing tricks he learned as a member of the Magic Circle could be put to permanent use – perhaps on some of his pesky critics, for example.

But even he, surely, would have drawn the line at sawing someone in half, however tempting?

Not so Prince Edward, who, styling himself as ‘the Magical Bisector’, stepped up to perform the classic illusion at his brother’s lavish 70th birthday party on Wednesday evening.

I came, I sawed, I conquered: How Edward and 'victim' Peter Phillips might have looked

His partner who clambered willingly, if a little nervously, into a wooden box was Princess Anne’s son and Charles’s nephew Peter Phillips, whose 41st birthday was the following day.

Many a royal heart was in mouth as the pair, with Edward brandishing a hand saw, stepped on to the stage for the highlight of a riotous and joyful celebration at Buckingham Palace.

All the elements of the Prince of Wales’s life were there. His love of music, comedy, fine food and gentle lampooning, together with 300 family and close friends carousing into the early hours.

No one took to the Palace ballroom floor with more enthusiasm than the birthday boy, dancing with Camilla and a string of royal cousins.

Not since the Queen held her ‘Dance of the Decades’ party at Windsor Castle at the turn of the century to mark a host of family birthdays have so many royals crammed into the Palace

Even Prince Philip, who makes only rare appearances at family events these days, was on hand to join the toasts led by the Queen for their eldest son.

If hers was the warmest and wittiest of tributes – in which she labelled her son ‘a duchy original’ in reference to his organic food brand – it was Prince William who brought the house down with a tongue in cheek, if heavy-handed joke at his father’s expense.

Father and son have not always enjoyed the easiest of relationships, but William showed he was a chip off the royal block with remarks that remained, just, inside the boundaries of propriety.

His speech, complete with theatrical pauses, began with him saying: ‘Let me tell you all the things my father hates... red squirrels, the environment, traditional architecture.’ Warming to his theme, he listed the Prince of Wales’ subsidiary titles – titles he will one day inherit.

Britain's Prince Charles and Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall leave Clarence House to attend a party at Buckingham Palace for Charles' 70th birthday earlier this week. Apart from the immediate Royal Family members, most of the crowned heads of Europe and beyond were there – some familiar, others less so

Then, in a reference to his contribution to last week’s TV documentary about Charles, he added the heartfelt, if jokey, plea that one day his father’s ‘sausage fingers’ will stop writing letters in order to spend more time with his grandchildren.

For good measure, William threw in a final joke about ‘breaking news’ on one of the prince’s most cherished possessions, his country house in Gloucestershire. ‘Highgrove,’ William declared, ‘is being turned into an NCP car park...’

In fact the Duke of Cambridge was just the warm-up act.

Singer and actor Gary Wilmot, 64, who rose to fame as a contestant on ITV talent show New Faces in the 1970s, sang his song in which he name checks famous stations on the Tube map to the traditional can-can tune.

There was more musical entertainment from tenor Alfie Boe, US soprano Renee Fleming – who sang O Mio Babbino Caro – and royal favourite Jools Holland, who performed three songs.

Other acts included Chinese acrobats, a Welsh choir and Goon-style humour from French-Canadian novelty artist Michel Lauziere, who performed the Blue Danube and the National Anthem on vintage car horns strapped to every part of his body – to the rapt astonishment of the Queen.

Guests from the younger generation included members of William and Harry’s circle, such as Charlie and Daisy van Straubenzee, and Hugh and Rose van Cutsem. The party was overseen with absolute precision by the Duchess of Cornwall, whose ex-husband Brigadier Andrew Parker Bowles, was also invited

The evening had begun with drinks in the Picture Gallery followed by dinner of salmon tartlet, poussin with autumn vegetables and ice cream bombe, served in the ballroom, where the Queen usually holds investitures. Guests sat at round tables covered in blue tablecloths and decorated with candlesticks and flowers from the Highgrove garden.

Not since the Queen held her ‘Dance of the Decades’ party at Windsor Castle at the turn of the century to mark a host of family birthdays have so many royals crammed into the Palace.

Apart from the immediate Royal Family members, most of the crowned heads of Europe and beyond were there – some familiar, others less so.

The larger than life Prince Albert of Monaco, for example, and the rarely seen King Simeon of Bulgaria. Leading the glamour stakes were the Australian-born Princess Mary of Denmark, Princess Tatiana of Greece and Queen Rania of Jordan.

Stars of stage and screen included Dame Maggie Smith, Dame Judi Dench, Sir Tom Stoppard and Joanna David, whose husband Edward Fox played Charles’ great uncle in the 1978 TV drama Edward and Mrs Simpson.

Guests from the younger generation included members of William and Harry’s circle, such as Charlie and Daisy van Straubenzee, and Hugh and Rose van Cutsem. The party was overseen with absolute precision by the Duchess of Cornwall, whose ex-husband Brigadier Andrew Parker Bowles, was also invited.

This was a more traditional gathering than many of the Prince’s earlier landmark parties. There were no Cabinet ministers, as there were at his 50th when Peter Mandelson was on the guest list, and fewer ‘luvvies’.

While 97-year old Prince Philip made an early departure – before the dancing – he was not the first. Prince Harry and the pregnant Duchess of Sussex made their excuses and left.

The Queen left soon after, but others remained until after midnight. And there was no doubting what they considered the high point of the evening – the Magical Bisector’s tour de force (Edward once harboured theatrical ambitions).

Prince of Wales holding Prince George posing for an official portrait to mark his 70th birthday. While 97-year old Prince Philip made an early departure – before the dancing – he was not the first

Prince Charles, a life-long fan of conjuring tricks and sleight of hand – he’s been a member of the Magic Circle since 1975 – was said to have been captivated.

‘Edward has still got a bit of the actor about him and he loves putting on a show, but he must have been practising for weeks,’ a guest told the Mail.

Another said: ‘He certainly hammed it up, there was lots of waving the saw around and saying out loud “Now for my next trick”. But it was very successful – though there were some anxious looks from the family.’

The following day, the Queen was telling staff of an ‘enchanting’ evening. As for birthday boy Charles, he telephoned his mother to thank her for hosting it.

====== 2062 ========

ROBERT HARDMAN FOR THE DAILY MAIL

ROBERT HARDMAN: 'For the first time in history, the old foe was in pride of place at the most sacred event in our national calendar. The sense of an historic line being drawn under an epochal chapter in our mutual past was palpable. ‘Hopeful for a future in peace and friendship,’ he wrote (in English) on the card attached to his wreath.' Main image:The Duchess of Cambridge joins the Queen and the Duchess of Cornwall on a balcony overlooking the ceremony. Right: President Frank-Walter Steinmeier of Germany lays a wreath at the cenotaph. Inset: Crowds pay their respects at the Cenotaph in Whitehall where Red Poppy wreaths were laid on the ground ...read

====== 2063 ========

ROBERT HARDMAN WATCHES HISTORIC MOMENT GERMAN PRESIDENT REMEMBERED THE FALLEN SOLDIERS OF WW1

For the first time, the old foe Germany joined Her Majesty at our most sacred event: ROBERT HARDMAN watches the historic moment the German President joined the Royal Family at The Cenotaph to remember the fallen soldiers of WW1 - 100 years on

At the going down of the sun, Britain's greatest commemorative endeavour of modern times finally drew to a close. Four years of centennial remembrance for the dead of the First World War concluded last night as the Queen and the German president attended a service of thanksgiving and reflection at Westminster Abbey.

Similar sentiments were echoed at concerts, vigils and events in every part of Britain, following traditional Remembrance Sunday services attended by exceptional crowds.

The fact that the centenary of the Armistice should fall precisely on the second Sunday in November, the traditional date for remembering our fallen, gave added impetus and poignancy to this immense anniversary.

The Duchess of Cambridge joins the Queen and the Duchess of Cornwall on a balcony overlooking the ceremony

President Frank-Walter Steinmeier of Germany lays a wreath at the cenotaph

Crowds pay their respects at the Cenotaph in Whitehall where Red Poppy wreaths were laid on the ground

The Duke of Cambridge lays a wreath during the remembrance service at the Cenotaph memorial in Whitehall, central London

Leader of the Labour Party, Jeremy Corbyn lays a wreath during the service

And nowhere was that more apparent than at the Cenotaph. Big Ben – silent all year during essential maintenance work – emerged from enforced hibernation to toll the 11th hour.

For the first time in history, the old foe was in pride of place at the most sacred event in our national calendar. Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the German head of state, stood in the midst of the Royal Family and laid the first wreath after that of the Queen. He bowed deeply as he did so.

The sense of an historic line being drawn under an epochal chapter in our mutual past was palpable. 'Hopeful for a future in peace and friendship,' he wrote (in English) on the card attached to his wreath.

The Queen's wreath had been laid by the Prince of Wales. As she did last year, the Monarch elected to watch the service from a Foreign & Commonwealth Office balcony, this time flanked by the Duchess of Cornwall and the Duchess of Cambridge.

Earlier in the day, in a historic act of reconciliation, German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier laid a wreath during a poignant ceremony at the Cenotaph, marking the first time a German leader has ever taken part in the proceedings

Prince Charles read an extract from St John while Mrs May and actor John Simm also read passages followed by the Dean of Westminster John Hall who lead the service

Appearing at her first Armistice service since becoming a fully-fledged royal, she instead took on an ambassadorial role, standing next to Elke Büdenbender, partner of the German president

The Princes of Wales, the Duchess of Cornwall, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and the Duke and Duchess of Sussex made their way into the abbey shortly after 6pm following a day of emotional tributes across Britain

The Queen making her way into Westminster Abbey this evening just before 6pm joined by Dean of Westminster John Hall

The Duchess of Cambridge smiles as she joins the Queen and the Duchess of Cornwall on a balcony overlooking the ceremony

Prince William, Duke of Cambridge and Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex, attend the Remembrance Sunday ceremony at the Cenotaph

The Duchess of Sussex (shown right) looked on solemnly from a different balcony as her husband, the Duke of Sussex, and several other senior members of the royal family laid wreathes in central London

The Queen and Senior members of the Royal Family attend an Armistice Service at Westminster Abbey. Charles and Camilla make their way into the Abbey together following a day of tributes across Great Britain

Charles laid a wreath at the Cenotaph on behalf of his mother for the second year in a row while an equerry will lay a wreath on behalf of the Duke of Edinburgh

The Duchess of Sussex, attending her first Cenotaph parade, stood on an adjacent balcony with Mr Steinmeier's wife, Elke, 56, a judge.

As the daughter of a First World War veteran and the only head of state in the world today who served in uniform during the Second, the Queen's authority was undiminished by her absence from the parade. In her tenth decade, she simply felt that it was tempting fate to be negotiating the Cenotaph steps unaided on such a crucial occasion. Besides, it was easier to see her on her balcony. For the first time, the Duke of Edinburgh was not at her side. Palace officials said the 97-year-old Duke had never been expected to attend and that there were no grounds for concern. His wreath was laid by his equerry, ahead of those of other members of the Royal Family.

Next came the party leaders, starting with the Prime Minister in a long dark overcoat. The Opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, was in a dark blue anorak, inviting inevitable comparisons with the infamous 'donkey jacket' worn by former Labour leader Michael Foot many years ago.

Unlike previous occasions, however, there could be no quibbling over the fact that Mr Corbyn performed a respectful bow to the fallen and was clearly seen to be singing the National Anthem.

Following the short service by the Bishop of London, the Rt Rev Dame Sarah Mullally, (the first time a woman had presided at the Cenotaph), the path was cleared for the eternally moving Royal British Legion parade.

Around 10,000 representatives of nearly 200 organisations, from the Army Widows' Association and the Royal Marines to the Black Watch and the Blenheim Society, came marching down Whitehall, more or less in time to all the old favourites – Pack Up Your Troubles, It's A Long Way To Tipperary and the rest. Among the oldest on parade was Donald Smith, 98, formerly of the Seaforth Highlanders, who was seriously wounded and taken prisoner outside Dunkirk in 1940. 'I don't like to cry, but this event always brings tears to my eyes,' he said. 'I was one of five friends who joined up and I was the only one who came back.' Every conflict was being remembered yesterday. Michael Bye, 83, had flown in from Canada, as he does every year, to march with his old chums in the Suez Veterans' Association. 'I always think of two men from the Royal Signals who were sent out one day and were never seen again,' he explained. The fallen of Korea, the Falklands, both Gulf Wars, Northern Ireland and Afghanistan were all being honoured by old comrades.

On parade for the very first time were representatives of the Women's Institute. Considering that this is an organisation with more than 200,000 members which was born out of the pressing need to feed a hungry nation in the First World War – and was an invaluable part of the Home Front in the Second – it seems odd that it had to wait until yesterday to be included. But there were no complaints. 'We're just very privileged to be here on such an emotional day,' said Lynne Stubbings, chair of the National Federation, proudly carrying the WI wreath.

Compounding all that emotion was the fact that this year, for the first time, more than 10,000 members of the public had been chosen by ballot to take part in a further centenary parade past the Cenotaph. It had been described variously as 'a national thank-you' and 'the people's parade' and consisted of people of all ages and backgrounds bearing floral tributes of all complexions (some of them knitted). Despite some exemplary marching music from several bands, led by Christ's Hospital school, this was more of a leisurely stroll than a march. Some proudly held up photos of their fallen kinsmen. Many wore the medals which a great-grandfather or great-great-uncle had never lived to wear.

Pregnant Meghan Markle displays he growing baby bump in an elegant navy frock and Parisian beret ensemble

Prime Minister Theresa May lays a wreath during the remembrance service, dressed in a black coat and matching black hat

Queen Elizabeth II and German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier attend a National Service to mark the centenary of the Armistice at Westminster Abbey

It all added an endearing note of informality to a day rich in grand ceremonial – and all in marked contrast to events in Paris. There, President Macron's week-long appropriation of this centenary for contemporary political ends continued. After much glad- handing of world leaders and energetic striding around in front of the television cameras at the Arc de Triomphe, he delivered a speech on the perils of nationalism.

In London, we had to wait until last night before hearing a word from our national representatives.

As the Tower of London's commemorative torches blazed for the last time, Westminster Abbey was packed for the service of reflection and reconciliation. The Queen and President Steinmeier began by placing wreaths on the Grave of the Unknown Warrior.

Finally, lessons from the Book of John were read by the president and the Prince of Wales. 'Beloved, let us love one another,' said the president, speaking in German. 'Greater love hath no man than this,' said the Prince, 'that a man lay down his life for his friends.'

Children laid further flowers on the Grave of the Unknown Warrior. His actions and his sacrifice are now more distant from us than the Battle of Waterloo was from his own generation. But their heroics have no sell-by date. As the inscription in our war cemeteries declares: 'Their name liveth for evermore.' And so it shall.

Prime Minister Theresa May and her husband Philip leave 10 Downing Street ahead of the remembrance service at the Cenotaph

Thousand people take part in a march in Westminster, London to mark the 100th anniversary of Armistice Day

Children who wore their lost ancestors’ medals with pride

Young and proud, they came to honour a lost generation, carrying medals and memories.

Descendants of those who served in the First World War marched past the Cenotaph yesterday in a unique commemoration of their families’ sacrifice.

They joined relatives of servicemen and women from the Second World War and more recent conflicts to form a 10,000-strong parade, dubbed the Nation’s Thank You. For many it was their first opportunity to come together to express their profound gratitude and pride for the actions of a previous generation.

Tributes: Ioan Williams, eight, with medals and wreath, a girl with a photo of a soldier and two boys proudly march in berets as part of Nation’s Thank You parade

For others the memories were still raw, and they wept as they recalled fathers and grandfathers who never returned from the frontline. Children too young to remember their forebears wore their medals pinned to their chests.

Their families watched them march and expressed the heartfelt hope that they would never have to repeat the sacrifices of the wartime generations. Eight-year-old Ioan Williams wore the medals of his great-grandfather Sergeant Walter Benjamin, who served in India and Burma during the Second World War.

At his side, his grandmother Jane Benjamin carried a wreath for Ioan’s great-great uncle, Rifleman Walter Singer, who was killed in France just three weeks before the Armistice. Mrs Benjamin, 62, from Pontypridd in South Wales, said: ‘The veterans of the First World War aren’t here any more, so it’s up to us to make sure their legacy is passed to our children and grandchildren.

‘We must never forget. The legacy of that war and their sacrifice must be peace so that these children know the value of peace.’ Rifleman Singer served with the King’s Royal Rifle Corps and was one of four soldiers sent to take a German position near Montay in Northern France on October 23, 1918.

Two were killed as they dived into a German dug-out and he died later that day from his injuries, leaving only one survivor. His great-great nephew Ioan said he felt proud to take part in the Nation’s Thank You procession, after his family were awarded two of the coveted spots in the parade, allotted through a public ballot.

Elsewhere in the procession, 13-year-old Harry Gayfer-Toms marched to commemorate several members of his family. His great-great grandfather Frederick Gray was killed at the Second Battle of the Somme in September 1918, just five months after his brother Hubert died. Frederick, a soldier with the 6th Battalion, Bedfordshire Regiment, was hit by a shell as he dug a grave to bury a dead comrade.

He had written to his wife Ethel just four days earlier, saying he hoped to be home soon to be reunited with her and their one-year-old son Harry, who he had only seen once while on leave. That son, Harry, went on to serve during the Second World War and was captured in the fall of Tobruk in Libya, but survived.

Harry’s daughter Vivienne Gayfer, 71, of Biggleswade, Bedfordshire, said she had brought her grandson, also named Harry, to the procession to commemorate their family’s history.

She said: ‘Harry is one of nine great-great grandchildren of Frederick Gray. That generation gave up so much – it is important we remember them.’ Serving officer Mark Goodwin-Hudson brought four of his children to the procession to commemorate his great-uncle, who was severely injured at the start of the First Battle of the Somme on July 1, 1916 – the bloodiest day in the history of the British Army.

Charles laid a wreath at the Cenotaph on behalf of his mother for the second year in a row while an equerry will lay a wreath on behalf of the Duke of Edinburgh

British forces suffered 57,470 casualties, including 19,240 who were killed, and gained just three square miles of territory. Hubert Goodwin-Hudson was shot by a machine gunner as he approached a German trench and lay dying in No Man’s Land, beyond the reach of the British stretcher-carriers.

He was rescued by a German who had briefly lived in the same Essex village, and recognised him from the church where they had both worshipped.

Colonel Goodwin-Hudson, of the Household Cavalry, said: ‘It was an extraordinary rescue. My great-uncle thought he was done for and then suddenly heard a German voice asking, “Are you Hubert?”. This German man took him to a field hospital and ensured he received the best possible treatment. He saved his life.’

Thousands of torches create a blaze of light around the Tower of London yesterday evening in the last of eight performances of Beyond The Deepening Shadow, an installation in honour of the Fallen of the First World War

The most high-profile memorial event in London was the service taking place at the Cenotaph in Whitehall, with the Royal British Legion coordinating the March Past

Princes William and Harry attend a National Service of Remembrance

Former British Prime Minister John Major and Mrs May at the annual Remembrance Sunday memorial

Crowds gather on The Mall in front of Buckingham Palace as 10,000 thousand people take part in a march in Westminster,

The Salvation Army make their way past the Cenotaph on Whitehall in The People's Procession

Britain's Queen Elizabeth II and President of Germany, Frank-Walter Steinmeier stand in Westminster Abbey

Queen Elizabeth II leaves after attending a service marking the centenary of WW1 armistice at Westminster Abbey

Colonel Goodwin-Hudson was joined by his wife Alice and their children Rose, nine, Tarka, 12, Henry, 15, and Benjy, 18. Henry said: ‘It’s a great honour to be here today to remember all those who died in the First World War.

‘It’s important we remember all the sacrifices that were made to give us the freedom that we have today.’ Kate Nicholls, 48, joined the procession in honour of her great-grandfather John Waugh and his brother and sister Tommy and Violet. Tommy Waugh was injured by shrapnel at the Somme but survived by hiding under the bodies of the dead for three days.

Taken to a field hospital at Verdun for treatment for his wounds, he heard a voice he recognised and was reunited with brother John and their sister Violet, who was working as a nurse. The reunion was to be the last time the three siblings, from Nettlesworth in County Durham, were together. John Waugh was on his way back to the front and was killed in action just three weeks before the Armistice was signed, aged 28.

Mrs Nicholls, who was joined at the procession by her daughter Sophie, 16, said: ‘Their story has been passed down to us. Those generations who experienced the impact of war are dying out and we need to make sure their stories of indescribable sacrifice continue.’ Sophie said: ‘It’s very important to remember, and it’s very emotional.’

====== 2064 ========

AMANDA PLATELL FOR THE DAILY MAIL

AMANDA PLATELL: It was nigh-on a perfect day for Princess Eugenie to marry her beau. However the grandiose scale of the event was all out of proportion. in contrast to Harry and Meghan’s summer wedding where views from the street were also at a premium, just one person camped out overnight. It seemed as if there were more police than well-wishers. And this despite Prince Andrew’s attempt to build interest by releasing unseen pictures of the couple as children in the run-up. ...read

====== 2065 ========

PLATELL'S PEOPLE: WHY GOOPY GWYNNIE’S NOT AS DAFT AS YOU THINK!

The fragrant high priestess of womanhood, Gwyneth Paltrow, tells us she is hitting the menopause

The fragrant high priestess of womanhood, Gwyneth Paltrow, tells us she is hitting the menopause.

She’s suffering wild mood swings, that make her ‘furious for no reason’, and hot sweats, despite being perimenopausal — the bit before the really bad stuff happens.

As always with Gwynnie, help is at hand, if you can afford £70 a month for her herbal and vitamin treatment, curiously called ‘Madame Ovary’, available on her Goop ‘lifestyle brand’ website.

Now, it’s easy to poke fun at her. She is, after all, very annoying. And she’s always flogging some right-on-trend miracle remedy to life’s travails. Some of them, as doctors have pointed out, are deeply dubious, little more than quackery.

But to me, Gwynnie is the Donald Trump of womankind — maddening, preposterous, in your face . . . but quite often right.

Despite her cringe-making announcement about her ‘conscious uncoupling’ from first husband Chris Martin, for example, their separation turned out to be one of the most amicable divorces in showbusiness.

Likewise, Gwynnie’s comments on her change of life are par for the course — intensely irritating and with a touch of her usual gobbledegook.

‘Menopause gets a really bad rap and needs rebranding,’ she says, before stressing that what society needs today is great examples of ‘aspirational menopausal women’.

Likewise, Gwynnie’s comments on her change of life are par for the course — intensely irritating and with a touch of her usual gobbledegook

But again, isn’t there some truth to what she says? Mention the menopause ten years ago — particularly in a career environment — and you’d have people reaching for the smelling salts.

Yet 57 per cent of women suffer from its symptoms according to the NHS — and of those, 22 per cent say they can’t cope without medication.

On the other hand, we have to keep things in perspective. For the majority of women it is not a torment, it’s just irritating.

I’m one of the 87 per cent who did not suffer an emotional or physical breakdown as a result of it. We’re not all consumed by anger and hot flushes, but we should all feel compassion for those who are.

Above all, modern women want to get on with our lives however it affects us. Which is why Gwynnie’s call for ‘menopausal, aspirational’ role models is not quite as daft as it sounds.

Eva so, er, comfy

When Eva Herzigova first caused car crashes with her Hello Boys! Wonderbra posters 24 years ago, women felt obliged to wear these flesh-crushing, concrete contraptions that could even give Twiggy a cleavage.

Now Eva is back modelling this soft black bra and what look like, whisper it quietly, comfortable sexy knickers for Yamamay. Hello Girls!

Now Eva Herzigova is back modelling this soft black bra and what look like, whisper it quietly, comfortable sexy knickers for Yamamay

Rio shows you can hurry love

On her deathbed three years ago, Rio Ferdinand’s wife Rebecca gave him her blessing to find love again.

The football star, 39, has just posted this picture of himself and reality TV’s Kate Wright, 27, after he proposed in front of his three children. He and Kate have been inseparable for two years.

All very lovely, but I wonder if the first Mrs Ferdinand would have hoped he’d take a little more time to find love again.

The football star, 39, has just posted this picture of himself and reality TV’s Kate Wright, 27, after he proposed in front of his three children

Sheridan Smith explains why she had such a public meltdown, having not turned up for her hit West End show after she learned her father was dying.

‘As soon as my dad got the [terminal cancer] diagnosis it was like: “I’m not leaving your side. I want to be sat with my dad.” ’

Sheridan Smith explains why she had such a public meltdown, having not turned up for her hit West End show after she learned her father was dying

She is now happily engaged and back working.

What loving daughter wouldn’t have made the same choice, despite the critics? I know I will, if my time comes.

The court martial of Royal Navy Commander Steven Heap, for playfully twice slapping a female officer’s bottom at a naval base social function, took just 57 minutes to clear him.

I’m totally opposed to non-consensual bottom slapping, but if this is the future of men and women serving equally in the Armed Forces, heaven help us.

And may I apologise at this point for all the men’s bottoms I’ve playfully slapped, including those of my gay friends.

A British NHS doctor who travelled to Turkey then claimed he was tricked into joining ISIS in Syria, where he stayed for 18 months, now wants to come home.

Muhammad Saqib Raza says he thought ‘naively’ that accompanying the terrorist group would ‘look good on my CV’.

He says Britain is now blocking his return.

Despite being accused of both trying to out a gay Muslim and attempting to radicalise colleagues in the NHS before he travelled to the war zone, Raza thinks he deserves a second chance.

Like the British Government, I think this devoted doctor’s services would be better used helping the sick in Syria.

Touched by a tribute

Of all the wondrous poppy displays to mark the 100th anniversary of the end of World War I, the one that touched me most deeply was inside St Peter Mancroft Church.

Locals in Norwich have hand-knitted and crocheted 15,500 poppies, each representing a fallen soldier named on their war memorial.

Locals in Norwich have hand-knitted and crocheted 15,500 poppies, each representing a fallen soldier named on their war memorial

At the time of the war they had a population of just over 100,000. More than 15,000 of their young men died in battle.

One small city, one enormous sacrifice.

Westminster Wars

An inquiry reveals that Amber Rudd was failed by her civil servants over Windrush after she gave false information to MPs, claiming there were no targets to remove illegal immigrants.

The Home Secretary was forced to resign. The two senior civil servants slated in the report were simply moved to other senior jobs in Whitehall. What’s really needed is a target for removing incompetent, self-serving civil servants.

Despite the Met chief Cressida Dick’s insistence that scarce police resources must focus on fighting terrorism and knife crime, Diane Abbott says hate crimes must be given equal priority.

Oh dear, if every nasty email the hapless Abbott got had to be investigated by police, they’d need an entire special ops bureau.

Now that is spooky, Posh

In the pantheon of famous people who dressed up for Halloween, the one that took me aback was Victoria Beckham in a scary rabbit head.

It can’t be Posh, I thought, the bunny is smiling.

In the pantheon of famous people who dressed up for Halloween, the one that took me aback was Victoria Beckham in a scary rabbit head

A reporter covering the Megs and Harry tour Down Under observed the Duchess was wonderful at calming her husband when he got grumpy, which was often.

‘At one long welcome ceremony in Fiji, he looked like he wanted to thump someone.’

Now we know why Meghan constantly holds Harry’s right hand.

====== 2066 ========

A.N. WILSON FOR THE DAILY MAIL

In one of the most authoritative studies of its kind, scientists have found the IQ of young people has begun to fall, after rising steadily since the war. The decline started with the generation that reached adulthood in the Nineties, and has continued ever since. Those who have been watching the moronic TV dating show Love Island will need little convincing that the young are less clever than they were. ...read

====== 2067 ========

HOW LITERARY GIANT V S NAIPAUL CAUSED OUTRAGE FOR SUPPORTING INDIAN HINDU NATIONALISTS

Author Sir V S Naipaul, who won the Nobel Prize in literature in 2001, has died at his home in London aged 85, his family announced yesterday.

Sir Vidia, who won numerous coveted literary awards, wrote 30 books including critically acclaimed novels such as In A Free State and A Bend In the River.

His wife, Nadira, called him a 'giant in all that he achieved' and said he had died surrounded by 'those he loved having lived a life which was full of wonderful creativity and endeavour'.

He was raised as a Hindu and brought up in Trinidad before moving to England at 18 after receiving a scholarship to University College, Oxford.

He left university in 1954 and his first novel – The Mystic Masseur – was published three years later.

In 1961 he published his most celebrated novel, A House For Mr Biswas, which took more than three years to write.

American author Paul Theroux, who had a bitter 15-year feud with Sir Vidia before reconciling, said: 'He will go down as one of the greatest writers of our time.'

Vidia Naipaul (pictured here with his wife Nadira) was, in my view, the literary godchild of Dickens and Conrad, writes A N Wilson

Vidia Naipaul was, in my view, the literary godchild of Dickens and Conrad. His earliest published comic prize-winning novels such as The Mystic Masseur (1957) and Miguel Street (1959), were recognised almost immediately, as the works of an outstanding master.

He went on to become one of the truly great writers of his time, justly awarded the Nobel Prize in literature in 2001.

His canvas was wide – nothing less than the world itself, in all the confusions of a post-Imperial era.

Born in Trinidad, the grandchild of imported Indian labourer, it was his journalist father – whose affectionate portrait was drawn in the immortal 1961 novel A House For Mr Biswas – who filled his sons with his own reverence for the printed word. Vidia's younger brother Shiva was also a writer.

Vidia went to Oxford on a scholarship, worked for the BBC's Caribbean Voices, and was quickly taken up by the London literary world.

The novelist Anthony Powell was an early champion and friend, as was Powell's niece Lady Antonia Fraser.

In Andre Deutsch, himself a refugee in London from Hungary, he found a publisher who championed his wistfully pessimistic view of the human condition.

Though Naipaul wrote in prose, he was the great poet of exile, revealing in book after book, fictional and non-fictional, that none of us are really at home on this bewildering, filthy, beautiful but confused planet.

While at Oxford, Vidia met and later married a fellow-student Pat Hale, a wife to whom he was unfaithful and who had quite a hard time of it, but who was his loyal friend and champion until her death from cancer in 1996.

His second wife, Nadira Alvi, a great beauty and distinguished journalist, was his companion to the end.

In his work, Naipaul was scathingly contemptuous of what he saw as the folly and hypocrisy of the human race.

'The Europeans wanted gold and slaves like everybody else, but at the same time they wanted statues put up to themselves as people who had done good things for the slaves,' he wrote.

Sir Vidia, who won numerous coveted literary awards, wrote 30 books including critically acclaimed novels such as In A Free State and A Bend In the River. In 1961 he published his most celebrated novel, A House For Mr Biswas

His first book about India, An Area of Darkness, caused howls of dismay, not only in India but in the West, for while recognising the wonder of that land, he depicted its squalor.

For his books on Africa, especially In A Free State, he was denounced – absurdly – as fascist.

He once said that 'if a writer does not generate hostility, he is dead'. While this may be true, he took an undisguised delight in being deliberately offensive.

His fellow-writer Paul Theroux wrote an extremely funny memoir of Naipaul, a catalogue of impossible behaviour.

A friend of mine, a French diplomat, found herself beside him at dinner one night and suffered an uninterrupted hour in which he informed her that every single French writer, from Victor Hugo to Emile Zola, from Balzac to Proust, was no good. Then he fell asleep.

More or less teetotal, he was not drunk when he made these tirades, he simply liked upsetting people.

He caused international outage for supporting the Hindu nationalists in India, and, though married to a Muslim, he was accused inevitably of Islamophobia.

What will remain is not the reputation for belligerence, but the luminous quality of his prose, the perspicacity of his writing, and, behind the curmudgeonly manners, a spark which could make him hilarious company.

====== 2068 ========

JANE FRYER FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Were the unimaginable to happen and England reach the World Cup final, an avalanche of thank-you gifts, accolades and boundless glory surely awaits Dr Pippa Grange (left). The smart money is already on a gong from the Queen. Because somehow, the 47-year-old psychologist from Yorkshire who believes in the 'unity of body and mind' and the 'transformative power of yoga' has finally helped them do what they're paid for. Embedded with the English team at their training camp in Russia, she has fixed their 'mental frailty and brittleness' to banish years of national penalty shoot-out shame. She has got them standing tall and proud. She even seems to have given manager Gareth Southgate an extra spring in his step. If it all seems a bit unlikely, it's not surprising. She's festooned the team gym with posters featuring slogans such as 'Success isn't given, it's earned'. And after the Tunisia win, stars Kieran Trippier, Jesse Lingard and Jordan Pickford (inset) were even seen frolicking on inflatable unicorns in their hotel pool (bottom right). ...read

====== 2069 ========

WALLACE BECOMES FIRST EVER MULE TO WIN A DRESSAGE COMPETITION IN UK

I am pictured with Wallace The Great, the first mule ever to win a UK dressage competition

This is a rags-to-riches tale of loneliness, hardship, hope, perseverance and redemption, with all the ingredients to become a Hollywood blockbuster.

The cast includes a kindly 65-year-old horsewoman called Lesley Radcliffe who, unable to ride horses after breaking her neck, began fostering donkeys and mules; and a young groom and rider who’s ridden since she was four years old.

But the real star is Wallace The Great, an 11-year-old mule who likes nothing more than rolling in dirt, stuffing himself with hay and biscuits, and having the insides of his velvety ears rubbed — hard.

Over recent weeks, Wallace has become the surprise poster boy for equine equality after being banned from a British Dressage competition because he was a mule (which has just 63 chromosomes) rather than a horse (which has 64).

Earlier this month, after a hard-fought battle against ‘mulescrimination’, Wallace The Great (with 31-year-old groom Christie Mclean atop his broad, flat back) became the first mule to take part in an official British Dressage show at the Summerhouse Equestrian centre in Gloucester.

What’s more, Wallace won.

Wallace The Great is pictured with 31-year-old groom Christie Mclean atop his broad, flat back

Walking and trotting, neck arched, body in perfect alignment, he saw off eight horses to romp home with the winner’s scarlet rosette, a mark of 67.4 and some very confidence-boosting comments from the judges.

‘Well done. Pleasing rhythm and activity,’ they wrote. ‘Could be more supple, but a lovely willing attitude.’

His many supporters, including multiple Olympic medallist and dressage legend Carl Hester, who learned to ride on a donkey, were ecstatic.

‘If someone puts a stumbling block in your way, don’t give up, simply step over it, like Wallace did!’ tweeted one. ‘Hurry up and make a movie!’ said another.

Passing van drivers toot their horns and shout, ‘Oi, is that the famous mule? I saw him on telly!’ as he clip-clops past.

Given how in demand he is, I feel blessed he’s found time in his busy schedule of dust-rolling, grazing and general swaggering around to show me his dressage skills.

Many celebrities seem smaller and somehow diminished when you meet them, but, in the quivering flesh, Wallace is a truly handsome beast, even with his comically big ears.

His hair is shiny, his tail long and swishy, his mane cropped short, his eyes huge, his lashes lustrous and his teeth surprisingly pearly given his penchant for ginger biscuits.

I climb aboard Wallace, the product of a male donkey and a female horse, watched by Christie

Like all mules, Wallace is the product of a male donkey and a female horse. (A female donkey and male horse produce a hinny). I am assured by Lesley and Christie that he possesses a startling intellect.

‘Mules are highly intelligent creatures and question things far more than horses do,’ says Lesley. ‘And Wallace is a particularly able mule. Mules being stubborn is a myth. If he seems stubborn, it’s only because he’s outwitted you!’

Christie is just as smitten.

Off we trot, surprisingly quickly, and I cling on to Wallace as calmly as possible

‘Horses are just, well, horses — but with mules, the brain seems more active,’ she says. ‘So, unlike a horse, Wallace will make a connection. He can read your thoughts — he’ll know what you’re thinking.’

And with that, it’s time to clamber on to his back for a bit of ‘walk, trot, walk’.

Christie swiftly warns: ‘He’s very, very responsive to touch. He needs to tune in with your brain. Just keep talking to him, tell him how great he is. Remember, he’ll be thinking what you’re thinking so think: “Calm, calm, calm.” ’

And off we trot, surprisingly quickly, and I cling on as calmly as possible.

I try to remember all the things that are so great about mules, so he can mind-read how supportive I am. How they hail from Asia, and live for 40 years — a good 15 years longer than horses. How they have far better hearing and eyesight, and work harder and longer.

Lesley tells me: ‘A mule will carry a third more weight, pull a third more weight, go a third longer in time on a third less food.’ No wonder the Army used them up until the Seventies, and Queen Victoria’s wedding carriage was pulled by mules.

Sadly, Wallace’s glossy flanks beneath me belie difficult beginnings. His early years are shrouded in mystery, but when he was about six (you can age mules by examining their teeth), he was discovered wandering around a village in County Antrim, Northern Ireland.

It was winter, cold and dark, and seeing that Wallace was clearly hungry, the kind-hearted villagers turned the bus stop into a makeshift stable for him and kept him stocked with hay and oats. He thrived and, not surprisingly, stuck around.

But come summer, when he hungrily discovered the tasty joys of their floral displays and prize vegetable patches (the village was full of very keen gardeners), he was rather less welcome.

Lesley Radcliffe, Wallace's guardian (angel), has always been mad about mules

Wallace was despatched first to a local animal refuge, where he ate them out of house and home, and then to The Donkey Sanctuary charity, which transported him across the Irish Sea to Sidmouth in Devon to join all their other mules.

It was here that he met Lesley Radcliffe, his guardian (angel).

Lesley has always been mad about mules — and with good reason. Her grandfather was a muleteer in World War I, in charge of caring for the mules in the trenches.

And as a child growing up in Cornwall, she met a mule called Lucy, who lived on a nearby farm, and fell in love. ‘I rode her for four years, and then one day I turned up and she was gone,’ she tells me. ‘The farmer had sold her. I was devastated.’

But the seed was sown and she spent her life working with horses. She was a riding instructor for the disabled for 40 years.

When she and Wallace met five years ago, she had already fostered several donkeys and mules from The Donkey Sanctuary and taken them back to her home in Dursley, Gloucestershire.

Their meeting came by chance. Billy, one of Lesley’s other mules, had terminal cancer and they had returned to The Donkey Sanctuary for palliative treatment.

‘I wanted to be with him when he was put to sleep,’ she says quietly.

A toothsome display from Wallace, an 11-year-old mule who likes nothing more than rolling in dirt, stuffing himself with hay and biscuits, and having the insides of his velvety ears rubbed

Billy’s sad loss was Wallace’s happy gain. They knew the moment they saw each other.

‘He was just lovely,’ recalls Lesley. ‘In a whole herd of mules, he was calm, placid and even allowed me to walk around him and pick up his feet,’ she says.

So she took him home with her, where he immediately fitted in with her two other mules, Milo and Bertie, and donkeys Trevor and Ned, who is 40 and blind. These days, Wallace looks out for Ned — when he isn’t being cheeky and adventurous.

‘He would be in the house if he had the chance!’ says Lesley.

He adores meeting people and being fussed over — but most of all he loves Lesley, who spends at least three hours a day grooming, tending, cuddling, feeding him ginger biscuits (‘All donkeys and mules love ginger,’ she tells me) and just, well, loving him.

She goes all pink and glowy just talking about him.

For his part, Wallace looks at her every other second, just to check she’s looking at him — which, of course, she is — and his ears prick and perk forward with happiness.

For the first year, no one rode him. Then Lesley took him to a local demonstration by world-famous ‘horse whisperer’ Monty Roberts, who declared Wallace The Great ‘highly intelligent’ and ready to be ridden.

That was the beginning.

In October, it’s the Regional Championships, where Wallace's mettle will really be tested

Christie, a groom friend of Lesley, says: ‘He was just a joy — and so responsive.’ She tried out dressage on him, discovered he was ‘a natural’ and caused a bit of a stir when she started competing in local events with him earlier this year.

It was when one of Lesley’s horses was lame that she tried to enter Wallace in the national British Dressage event. But she was told: ‘No mules, thank you very much.’

‘It didn’t seem fair,’ she says. ‘He’s so much brighter and more tuned in than most horses, and I felt he could win.’

Christie isn’t the sort to give up easily and started a campaign on social media. In our equality-obsessed society, outrage snowballed until, earlier this month, the sport’s governing body changed the rules to include all animals ‘born from a mare’ — and the rest, as they say, is history. Naturally, there was joy when they won their first high-level dressage event.

Thankfully, for once, Wallace didn’t eat any of the flower baskets in the parade ring.

Today, as we jig about, I’m sure he can sense my nerves, but he is calm and kind. And when I kiss his warm neck, he smells of saddle-soap and musk and I can see why everyone loves him so much.

As Christie says: ‘Wallace is a bonding kind of animal. He makes deep friendships. He’s had a difficult upbringing and needs continuity now.’

With one big victory under his straining girth, there is no letting up. In October, it’s the Regional Championships, where his mettle will really be tested by adding the canter — not his strongest point right now. ‘We’ve got a lot of work to do,’ says Christie.

So what about Wallace in Hollywood? ‘He’ll play himself, of course!’ says Christie.

And as we watch him, standing in his horsebox, eating ginger biscuits, banging the floor with his oiled hoof, whinnying impatiently to get on, it is clear he’s already a Hollywood star in the making. Albeit a star with very large ears.

====== 2070 ========

GEOFFREY LEVY FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Two people’s hands reaching for the other, and a warm smile. And from the way that Doria Ragland’s face lit up, she suddenly felt safe, no longer lonely in St George’s Chapel. The hand that grasped hers was that of the Prince of Wales. They were going through to the chantry to sign the marriage register. For a moment, as the group moved towards the door, it was clear Meghan’s mother, the only member of the bride’s family in the chapel, had been momentarily uncertain. She shuffled in her seat. You can certainly see where Meghan gets her star quality from. And yet Doria’s loneliness on the bride’s side was brutally obvious. And there was her hand, fluttering, for one uncertain moment, towards Prince Charles. ...read

====== 2071 ========

GEOFFREY LEVY: THE MOMENT PRINCE CHARLES GRABBED DORIA'S HAND

Two people’s hands reaching for the other, and a warm smile. And from the way that Doria Ragland’s face lit up, she suddenly felt safe, no longer lonely in St George’s Chapel.

The hand that grasped hers was that of the Prince of Wales. They were going through to the chantry to sign the marriage register.

For a moment, as the group moved towards the door, it was clear Meghan’s mother, the only member of the bride’s family in the chapel, had been momentarily uncertain. She shuffled in her seat.

Doria had faced the massed ranks of the royal family across the quire with a quiet dignity. Her poise and her calm were a model of control in utterly strange and difficult circumstances.

Prince Charles and Doria Ragland, mother of the bride, during the wedding ceremony of Harry and Meghan Markle at St George's Chapel in Windsor as Archbishop Welby looks on

You can certainly see where Meghan gets her star quality from. And yet Doria’s loneliness on the bride’s side was brutally obvious.

And there was her hand, fluttering, for one uncertain moment, towards Prince Charles. Immediately, his hand reached out towards hers and, in a gesture that seemed to symbolise the joining of two very different families, she held on to it firmly as he gently pulled her into the group.

No face in the chapel on Saturday glowed with pleasure as hers did at that moment, even more than when it was turned towards the Most Rev Michael Curry, drinking in his fervent and unexpectedly lengthy message of love.

For her, there were tears, too, moments before her daughter entered through the West Door to make her solitary progress halfway down the aisle to the top of the nave. Quickly, Doria controlled her emotions. Not easy for her. Indeed, nothing was easy for her last week.

As she flew alone to Heathrow on an 11-hour flight from Los Angeles on Wednesday, family discord threatened to overshadow her daughter’s big day. Although, of course, it was her ex-husband’s side of the family and did not directly affect her.

Meghan’s personal assistant, Amy Pickerill, was at the airport to greet her and take her to Kensington Palace. After that came 48 dazzling hours when Meghan’s sole family representative had tea with Prince Charles and Camilla at Clarence House and then with the Queen and Prince Philip at Windsor Castle.

With Charles and Camilla, she felt comfortable and welcomed. What made it so much easier was that Meghan was there with Harry, with his jokes and easy manner. At least she had met Harry before, at the Invictus Games in Toronto.

With the Queen, though, it was not quite so easy as they talked over tea (a blend of Darjeeling and Assam) and fruit cake in the Oak Room, where Her Majesty has tea every day in her private apartment in the castle.

Charles and Doria pictured in St George's Chapel at the wedding of Harry and Meghan Markle

Although the Queen has a lifetime of experience making uneasy guests feel at home, Doria was nervous at first. However, by the time she was saying her goodbyes 40 minutes later, she was much more relaxed.

At 61, Doria Ragland had suddenly been elevated into the social stratosphere. But why should we be surprised that she rose so superbly to the occasion? Those who know Meghan’s family have always noted that the actress gets her brains and her fluency from her mother.

Doria’s start in life was as the bright, only child of a single mother whose parents were the bell-boy and lift-girl in a hotel in Cleveland, Ohio – a five-star establishment for white guests only. She was in the top academic stream at school but, money being short, didn’t go to university and instead began training as a make-up artist.

It was on the set of ABC’s popular TV series General Hospital that she met the show’s lighting director Tom Markle, a divorced man with two children, and married him.

Meghan was their only child before they in turn divorced, though amicably, even continuing to go on holidays together. One can only wonder what her ex-husband, apparently unable to be at the wedding because of a recent operation, felt as he watched Doria on the arm of the Prince of Wales.

The truth is that Doria has conducted herself with extraordinary dignity since it emerged that her only daughter was marrying the Queen’s grandson.

Never an attention-grabber, her work in Los Angeles as a yoga instructor and social worker, particularly among the elderly, has not allowed the excitement or the sudden spotlight to change anything about the way she goes about her life. Never for her the staged paparazzi pictures her ex-husband so foolishly allowed himself to do. No interviews. No efforts to profit from her daughter’s happiness.

Doria Ragland, Prince Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall walk down the steps of the chapel

That said, her daughter becoming the Duchess of Sussex changes things. Being an in-law to the royal family hasn’t meant too much to the parents of sons or daughters who have married into the Firm.

Traditionally, they would be welcomed by the royal family, share the wedding and then summarily be forgotten. For example, the mother of Mark Phillips, Princess Anne’s first husband, complained that she and her husband were ‘virtually ignored and never invited to anything by the palace’.

That attitude changed with the arrival of Kate Middleton.

Even before she and Prince William married, her parents, Michael and Carole, were regularly extended invitations to royal homes. They have stayed as guests at Balmoral and Sandringham.

William has insisted they are included in royal gatherings – they’ve been guests of the Queen at Royal Ascot, participating in the carriage drive down the course.

Harry will want to go the same way, and for royal doors to be as open to Meghan’s mum Doria as they are to the Middletons.

For now, at least, Meghan’s mother will continue to live 5,500 miles away in LA and go to work as normal, so her participation in royal life is hardly likely to be as frequent as Mike and Carole Middleton.

But judging by the way she linked arms with Prince Charles on the steps of the chapel, when those embossed invitations come she’ll certainly be able to handle it.

====== 2072 ========

MAX HASTINGS FOR THE DAILY MAIL

MAX HASTINGS: 'Here is an amazing reflection of our 21st century lives. We receive daily dumper-trucks of information, on a scale unprecedented in history. We are bombarded with film, satellite images, Instagram shots, bulletins, news flashes about all manner of happenings worldwide, private and public. Yet instead of being the best-informed generation of all time, we become ever more baffled about what is true, and whom to trust.' ...read

====== 2073 ========

WHY WOULD SO MANY RATHER WATCH NATURE PROGRAMMES THAN STEP OUTSIDE THEIR DOORS, ASKS MAX HASTINGS

No nation in the world loves nature like the British. We sup on it and gorge on it, from Springwatch to Countryfile, Blue Planet to Life In The Undergrowth, Coast to Naturewatch.

We savour every vole scuffling through the bushes, each bee sipping at the lavender, all the hares dancing in the meadow.

Moreover, we enjoy all these wondrous sights without needing to don wellies or scratch a bare arm on a bramble bush, because they scroll past on an HD screen in the living room.

Yet for all our professions of enthusiasm for the countryside and its wildlife, with each passing season we become lazier about engaging with them in real life

We visit ‘farm shops’ in city centres, pay a few pence extra for organic produce in the supermarket, and wax lyrical about the daffodils in the local park.

Yet for all our professions of enthusiasm for the countryside and its wildlife, with each passing season we become lazier about engaging with them in real life. Even when the sun bursts forth, as it did so gloriously at the weekend, and promises to do again in the coming days, we are just as likely to slump in front of our televisions as we are to head for open spaces.

TV wildlife programmes breed ‘virtual’ countryfolk, suffering from what scientists have dubbed Nature Deficit Disorder.

More than a million people subscribe to the RSPB, many more to the National Trust, the Campaign to Protect Rural England — of which I was once proud to be president — and suchlike. Yet it is dismaying how few country visitors walk rather than drive, use their eyes rather than watch a DVD, can identify a bird’s egg when they see it, or have read such great country writers of Britain’s past as Cobbett, W.H. Hudson or John Clare.

A significant divider between town and country is the loss of opportunities for children to do holiday jobs on farms, such as enabled my generation to learn a lot.

I ploughed decently; could harrow a field and shift bales at harvest. In the early Fifties, when even small farms still employed several workers, I will not pretend that a middle-class interloper such as me was always welcome, or softly treated.

I have never forgotten a day when, as a seven-year-old, I sobbed my heart out atop a rick because a tough countryman found a rat’s nest and stuffed its squeaking, wriggling contents down my shirt.

As I grew older, however, I learned about ferreting rabbits, skinning a lamb, hand-milking until my hands ached, shooting rabbits at night in the lights of a Land Rover; peerless fun for an early teenager.

Today, almost all the above is off the menu. No responsible farmer, never mind health and safety, could allow a boy to drive a modern tractor: farm workers have perforce become high-tech specialists.

Animals have vanished from many farms, likewise swathes of grass downland that were once glories of such counties as west Berkshire and Wiltshire.

The Prince of Wales extols the merits of returning land to a grazing regime, and how marvellous that would be! But he would struggle to earn a living out of grassland. I doubt that many rustic TV presenters know much about that, either. A limitation of most programmes is that they reflect a sentimental vision, exemplified by Countryfile’s indulgent items on vegans and animal rights.

My father, Macdonald Hastings, made country films for the BBC in the Fifties and Sixties which went too far the other way, waving the flag for farmers, pesticides and intensive livestock production in a fashion that even he came to regret in old age. Yet Father understood fundamentals about rural life which are alien to many of today’s twee presenters.

‘The principal activities of the countryside,’ he would say with relish, ‘are sex and death.’ This, if you think about it, must be true.

In nature, creatures kill each other from dusk to dawn and beyond. One of the first enchanting sights that I see on morning marches with the dogs is a barn owl, completing his nocturnal deck-level sweep of the fields, in search of small mammals.

In the countryside today, it can be difficult to persuade a sentimental public that some species must be managed — culled — especially such predators as mink and foxes. Because seals look so cuddly, it is painful to admit that there are far too many of them off the coasts of Britain for the available fish food stocks.

It is an unattractive feature of many modern eco-warriors and animal rights campaigners that while they cherish a passion for wildlife, they also tend to have a down on people.

Lowest on their pecking order are landowners, focus of the animus of such writers as Mark Cocker, author of an angry book titled Our Place: Can We Save Britain’s Wildlife Before It is Too Late? The subtext of such works is that wildlife would fare better without all the horrible toffs, farmers and even gardeners who get in its way. ‘We are the problem,’ writes Cocker.

This is correct, of course, in a narrow sense: nature prospered mightily in past centuries, when there were fewer hulking, intrusive, polluting human beings.

But most of us acknowledge that mankind has rights, too, and that to accommodate an ever-growing population, there must be compromises between nature and the demands of housing, farming, road-building, vehicles.

While some landowners and farmers diminish the land by harsh stewardship, many more are committed to preserving the natural balance, and spend far more of their own money on doing so than any self-proclaimed eco-warrior.

Even Mark Cocker acknowledges the value to wildlife of conservation headlands, strips of wilderness around fields, pioneered by the Game And Wildlife Conservation Trust a generation ago, and now happily common among farmers.

No nation in the world loves nature like the British. We sup on it and gorge on it, from Springwatch to Countryfile (pictured), Blue Planet to Life In The Undergrowth, Coast to Naturewatch

I share one of the obsessions in Cocker’s doom-laden book —against the planting of conifers which makes economic sense only because of crazy tax breaks, while perpetrating fearsome environmental damage.

He also performs a service, by highlighting some of the most grievous declines in species numbers — of moths, nightingales, cuckoos, swallows.

But Cocker overstates the malign influence of human persecution. The major force is habitat decline, reinforced by insect loss driven by agricultural pesticides, though he would say that comes to the same thing.

For all that, I am amazed by how much wonderful wildness Britain still offers, if only more virtual countryfolk went out to find it.

Every year, I spend several weeks roaming and fishing in Caithness and Sutherland, meeting scarcely a home-grown tourist, though a good many European ones.

English families, it seems, and especially their children, insist on theme parks, water slides and McDonald’s, of which thank goodness there are none up there. In Sutherland, stunning beaches are almost empty, because to reach them requires steep descents on foot — and return climbs to the road such as few passing drivers care to make.

Many and many a day, my wife and I walk the pristine sands alone with our dogs. We are grateful, but also sad about what others are missing.

Where I part from many modern eco-warriors, including Prince Charles, is that they yearn for a return to a rustic past in which indeed there were more butterflies, but also grinding rural poverty. Tuberculosis as well as incest flourished in thatched cottages.

I cannot follow the conservationists who cry ‘backwards to the future’, to preserve our wildlife. The interests of mankind must come first, and to pretend otherwise is naive. Yet the campaigners are right that there is more we can do to defend our wild heritage.

We are belatedly recognising plastic and detergents for the plagues that they are, infecting our ecosystem.

We should be able to exploit Brexit to abandon the crazy system of EU farm subsidies which give most money to the biggest producers, and instead focus cash on promoting environmental sensitivity, and supporting the most deprived rural areas.

Above all, we must cherish untilled wildernesses as the most precious of all wildlife habitats. In schools, we can again teach children to play with conkers — banned by heads ‘for safety reasons’. We can walk more, drive a little less; stop subsidising conifer planting; watch fewer TV wildlife programmes, and see real wildlife more.

Partly owing to sensationalist coverage of some rural mishaps — walkers tossed by bulls, children abducted, lovers falling into quarries and suchlike — the countryside has come to be viewed as a place of fear, of the unknown.

In truth, it remains the most glorious playground in Britain.

We must teach a new generation to embrace it as my generation was fortunate enough to do; and strive to secure the future of its wildlife for the next.

So when the sun comes out this week, resist the urge to turn on your television, and go and experience the natural wonders of these islands — before it’s too late.

====== 2074 ========

ANDREW PIERCE FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

Vince Cable has made a career out of U-turns so it's not surprising that the new Lib Dem leader should be accused of yet another screeching about-face. First, he moved from the Labour Party, then he was ridiculed for claiming the damage the Lib Dems suffered after their university tuition fees reversal was a 'price worth paying'. Now, he puts opposition to Brexit as his priority to rebuild his party's dwindling support — despite thinking very differently not long ago. ...read

====== 2075 ========

ADVERT SNUB FOR 'POLITICAL' PRO-BREXIT ANIMAL CHARITY

Brexit negotiations are fraught enough without a bitter row over the way other EU countries unnecessarily kill dogs and bulls.

But that is precisely what is happening. The controversy began when the Spectator magazine, bible of the Tory Party faithful, carried a two-page advert from Burnie’s Foundation, a charity that helps to alleviate animal suffering.

Unlike most organisations concerned with animal welfare — which believe Brussels-led legislation is the best guarantor of animals’ interests — the foundation is passionately pro-Brexit.

Under the heading: ‘Roll on Brexit’, the Spectator advert highlighted how, in Romania, thousands of stray dogs are killed inhumanely every year and how bullfighting is still tolerated in much of Spain.

Although it conceded that the ban on fox-hunting remains largely unenforced in this country, the charity argued that our record on animal rights is better than that of other European nations and that, post-Brexit, we’ll be free to improve animal welfare even more without being hindered by Brussels.

It said: ‘Brexit means the UK can set an example in standards of animal welfare that are long overdue in Europe.’

The charity wanted to place the same advert in The Economist — the increasingly shrill Remoaner weekly magazine whose largest shareholder is Italy’s Agnelli family (founders of the Fiat car empire) and which perversely insists on calling itself a ‘newspaper’.

But Economist bosses rejected the ad as ‘overtly political’.

An annoyed Stuart Wheeler, the Ukip-supporting financier, wrote a letter to The Economist about the ban. That, too, was rejected. Presumably, it was too political!

Hezza rests on his EU laurels

Arch-Europhile Lord Heseltine gleefully welcomed the Government’s Commons defeat last week, which was claimed to be a victory for democracy as it forced ministers to let MPs have a final say on Brexit.

Ex-deputy PM Hezza isn’t a great example of politicians using Westminster as a platform, having taken part in less than 3 per cent of votes in the Lords in the last year — one of the worst records in the Upper House.

As Greenwich council votes to bar Donald Trump from the borough during his UK trip next year, Wandsworth council’s Tory leader takes a more diplomatic approach. Ravi Govindia is thrilled that the new U.S. embassy has been built in his borough and says he ‘warmly welcomes’ the embassy’s staff and visitors.

Diane Abbott has been at it again. Not utterly at sea over police numbers this time, but confused over basic science. Tweeting about the need, post-Grenfell, for sprinklers to be fitted to all tower blocks, she said: ‘We know fire puts out water.'

Campus cash-in

More evidence of how our universities are wasting the multi-million-pound bonanza provided by annual student fees of up to £9,000.

Just days after announcing the redundancies of 75 lecturers, Southampton University advertised for a chauffeur to provide a ‘car service to university executives and visiting dignitaries’.

By the way, Southampton’s vice- chancellor, the academic and engineer Sir Christopher Snowden, is on a salary of £423,000 — almost three times more than the Prime Minister.

Jeers, not cheers, for Jezza

Jeered at a Jewish Labour Movement party last week, Jeremy Corbyn has denied he wants sanctions against Israel.

Is this the same Jeremy Corbyn who, in 2015, was asked about the Boycott Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement against Israel and answered: ‘I think the boycott campaign, divestment campaign, is part and parcel of a legal process that has to be adopted. I believe that sanctions against Israel, because of its breach of the trade agreement, are the appropriate way of promoting [the] peace process’?

PS: At Glastonbury this summer, Corbyn boasted he would be PM by Christmas. He’s got seven days to fulfil that promise . . .

====== 2076 ========

EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Chancellor Philip Hammond was informed two days before the general election that Mrs May’s then chief of staff, Nick Timothy (left), had decreed that he would be out on his ear on June 9. Hammond’s still in his job and a contender if there’s a No 10 vacancy. Out-of-a-job Timothy was reduced to writing a sorry-for-himself ‘diary’ in The Spectator last week. In preparation for the dressed-down state opening of Parliament tomorrow, Prince Philip – Colonel of the Grenadier Guards – ditched his uniform for Trooping the Colour. Unlike his son Prince Edward, who managed just 12 weeks with the Royal Marines. He was dressed-up like a Christmas tree in the gaudy outfit of a colonel of the London Regiment. He looked even odder sitting next to his brother, Falklands veteran Prince Andrew, who never wears uniform for the Trooping. ...read

====== 2077 ========

ED MILIBAND MISSES OPENING OF PARLIAMENT TO HOST RADIO

Former Labour leader (and current MP for Doncaster North) Ed Miliband missed yesterday’s State Opening of Parliament to pursue his new, part-time career as a Radio 2 DJ, filling in for Jeremy Vine. As we reported yesterday, he has discussed, inter alia, lavatory cisterns with listeners. Curiously, Miliband used to disapprove of MPs seeking additional employment. ‘We’ve got to settle the issue of MPs taking second jobs once and for all,’ he declared in 2015.

Minister for immigration Brandon Lewis waffles on BBC1 that President Donald Trump’s visit can’t be announced because dates have not been agreed. What nonsense. The Queen announced the 2018 Commonwealth Summit, although no date is set, and nor has the host UK city been agreed. If the Government was keen on a Trump visit it could have used the Queen’s Speech to force his hand on dates. Trump might have enjoyed getting a name check in the Queen’s Speech. This much-anticipated but tricky visit now seems to have been kicked into the long grass.

Former Labour leader (and current MP for Doncaster North) Ed Miliband missed yesterday’s State Opening of Parliament to pursue his new, part-time career as a Radio 2 DJ

Comedy veteran John Cleese, 77, enthuses on Twitter: ‘Delighted that Vince Cable is standing for the Lib Dem leadership.’ A long-time party supporter, Cleese claims he turned down the offer of a peerage from former Lib Dem leader Paddy Ashdown in 1999. ‘Paddy was going to offer me one for political services,’ he said. ‘But I realised this involved being in England in the winter and I thought that was too much of a price to pay.’ Perhaps he hopes Sir Vince will repeat the offer. There’s no rule saying life peer comics can’t winter abroad.

The Duchess of Cambridge’s swift intervention, saving the Countess of Wessex from a bad fall as she tried to get out of a carriage at Ascot, sent a shiver down the spines of watching courtiers, who know Kate won’t always be on hand to rescue toppling royals. ‘Camilla finds it difficult to step out of carriages, particularly while wearing new shoes and an evening gown,’ says my source. ‘But at least she makes use of the helping hands offered by coachmen. The Queen will only accept help from Prince Philip.’

‘Camilla finds it difficult to step out of carriages, particularly while wearing new shoes and an evening gown,’ says my source

Stanley Johnson, 76, Foreign Secretary Boris’s lively, ex-MEP father, performs a handstand while promoting a More4 TV documentary on the joys and pitfalls of being elderly. Watched by another participant, ex-editor Eve Pollard, he duly performs this feat, coins from his pockets raining on to the floor. ‘That was excellent!’ comments well-built Ms Pollard, who, mercifully, isn’t tempted to try this gymnastic move herself.

Digby Jones, 61, a successful businessman and former head of the CBI, is dismissed by Labour shadow international business secretary Barry Gardiner as ‘sitting on the sidelines’ while discussing Brexit. The peer rounds on Gardiner, 60, on the BBC’s Daily Politics, informing the political drone: ‘You arrogantly say that people like me sit on the sidelines. We, the business community, pay your wages! We trade the world to pay the tax that builds schools and hospitals. We do not sit on the sidelines.’

====== 2078 ========

ISABEL OAKESHOTT FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Until the shock Brexit vote, the Prime Minister assumed he had another three years left in power and had already decided who he was going to promote; and who to fire. By late tomorrow, he and his family will be out of Downing Street – and in urgent need of a roof over their heads. Discovering on the morning after the referendum that they had just weeks left in their accommodation above No 11 Downing Street was already a shock. Now the Camerons have been turfed out two months early, they barely have time to gather their belongings, and nowhere permanent to go immediately in London. But the couple recently banked £800,000 to help fund their future business ventures after remortgaging their Notting Hill home. ...read

====== 2079 ========

ISABEL OAKESHOTT ON HOW HONOURS SYSTEM WAS 'DISCREDITED MORE THAN EVER BEFORE'

When Tony Blair peddled peerages to save the Labour Party from bankruptcy, it seemed the honours system could sink no lower.

But with this list of gongs for failed propagandists, Chipping Norton cronies and mediocre party apparatchiks, David Cameron has just proved it can be brought into further disrepute.

Never has the system seemed more discredited than it does today, as the former prime minister — if the leaked list is correct, and yesterday no one denied it — attempts to shower his friends and supporters with fancy titles as his final act of patronage.

From his wife’s stylist to the individuals responsible for the deplorable campaign to bully voters into remaining in the EU, an array of flops, lickspittles, time-servers and non-entities will soon be the proud beneficiaries of gongs.

David Cameron's resignation honours list has 'discredited the honours system more than ever before'

With a few honourable exceptions, qualifying for their titles seems to have required little more than doing their jobs.

Perhaps we should never have expected anything else. After all, this is the prime minister who in 2014 rewarded his hairdresser, Lino Carbosiero, with an MBE.

This time, it’s Isabel ‘Bells’ Spearman, Samantha Cameron’s Girl Friday — who organised Mrs Cameron’s social engagements and clothes — who has been put forward for a gong.

The resignation honours list reported yesterday also includes Thea Rogers, former special adviser to George Osborne.

Her contribution to the UK economy is unknown, but she is credited with changing his hairstyle and putting him on the ‘5:2’ diet.

The fact is that Cameron has never made much pretence of upholding the integrity of the honours system.

As Leader of the Opposition at the height of Blair’s ‘cash for honours’ scandal in 2006, he was careful not to make any hostages to fortune about how he would distribute gongs, saying only that it was time to ‘stop the perception’ that peerages could somehow be bought by big donations from the rich.

Privately, he later indicated that he was relaxed about rewarding big party donors. His dissolution list shows that he meant what he said.

Among those in line for awards are Ian Taylor, a businessman who poured hundreds of thousands into the Remain campaign, and has handed the Tories a reported £1.6 million over the years.

Then there’s Andrew Cook, another high-rolling Tory donor, who donated up to £300,000 to Cameron’s battle to keep Britain in the EU.

Cameron’s final flourish is entirely consistent with the way he conducted his premiership.

From the moment he entered Downing Street, he relished exercising his powers of patronage to benefit his friends.

Witness the rewards for his old university mate Andrew Feldman, a man who has never stood for elected office.

On taking power in 2010, Cameron made him co-chairman of the Tory party and a life peer.

He then repeatedly protected his old friend when he ran into trouble, firstly when he was accused of castigating Eurosceptic Tory party members as ‘swivel-eyed loons’, and more recently over the scandal involving the suicide of a young party activist who is alleged to have been badly bullied by a party official known as the Tatler Tory.

The list once again illustrates that for the chosen few, screwing up is no bar to preferment.

His decision to reward three of the architects of so-called Project Fear — Will Straw, ex-Cameron adviser Dan Korski, and former chancellor George Osborne, who brazenly spread alarmist misinformation in the run-up to the referendum — is particularly egregious.

When it comes to Straw, voters have twice delivered a damning verdict on his contribution to public life.

Firstly in 2015, when, as a Labour Party candidate, he spectacularly failed to win a parliamentary seat in the constituency of Rossendale and Darwen; and secondly, this summer, when as director of Britain Stronger in Europe, he spectacularly failed to win the argument in the referendum campaign.

Yet Cameron wants to make him a Commander of the Order of the British Empire — an accolade usually reserved for highly distinguished and long-term national service.

Here the former prime minister has clearly been willing to overlook the convention that resignation honours are issued only to members of the outgoing premier’s political party.

Why, then, is Nigel Farage — the man who has done more than any other individual to get Britain out of the EU and who was on the winning side of the argument in the referendum — not on the list?

Meanwhile, Mr Korski, a former deputy director of the Downing Street Policy Unit who was seconded to the Remain campaign, has been put forward for a CBE.

This is despite his disgraceful role in the ousting of British Chambers of Commerce director-general John Longworth for supporting Brexit.

Cameron’s resignation honours also include a dozen or so spin doctors and special advisers.

In recommending gongs for these characters, the former prime minister is simply showing whom he valued most.

Certainly, it is not the army of quiet volunteers who devoted years of unpaid service to his regime, organising cheese-and-wine evenings and cake stalls to raise a few pounds for the coffers, keep local party branches alive and help parliamentary candidates win marginal seats.

Cameron has instead rewarded a string of Downing Street insiders who have rarely had to leave the comfort of their desks.

It is believed that the former Prime Minister has requested knighthoods for businessmen Ian Taylor, left, and Andrew Cook, right, who have donated more than £1million to the Tories

These elevated press officers may have done a decent enough job, but their public service could hardly be considered exceptional.

Some names on Cameron’s wish list are said to have raised eyebrows on the nomination committee, which may have something to do with the entire list being leaked to the Sunday Times yesterday.

Cameron must know this list will do nothing for his legacy. Then again, perhaps he no longer cares.

He and his inner circle blithely assumed they would be in power for another four years.

Now he has been unceremoniously ousted from office, perhaps he sees these gongs as a small consolation prize for those he has brought down with him.

====== 2080 ========

PETER MCKAY FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Remember how we were told a month ago that it was vital for the RAF to bomb Syria? Since MPs voted 397 to 223 in favour, there have been only three strike missions, writes PETER MCKAY. ...read

====== 2081 ========

PETER MCKAY: THE RAPE CASE THAT TRAGICALLY MISFIRED

What are we to make of the tragic story of Eleanor de Freitas, 22, who killed herself after a man she accused of rape won the support of the Crown Prosecution Service in his private case against her for perverting the course of justice and lying to the police?

Her father, businessman David, says: ‘If only the Crown Prosecution Service had not supported that private prosecution. Because they did, I have a dead daughter.’

The Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) is overseeing an inquiry into the Crown Prosecution Service’s decision to put this vulnerable young woman on trial. It could have halted the private prosecution, but decided otherwise.

Eleanor de Freitas, 22, killed herself after a man she accused of rape won the support of the Crown Prosecution Service in his private case against her for perverting the course of justice and lying to the police

The West London coroner has asked to hear the full remit of the DPP’s investigation before deciding on the scope of his hearing, which will be before a jury.

The man Eleanor accused of rape, wealthy financier Alexander Economou, said through a spokesman that he ‘sends his condolences to the family for this very unfortunate event. It is a great loss.’

For his part, Eleanor’s father says she was unhappy that she could not put across her case to police in a believable manner. ‘In the end, she understood the police officers’ reasoning not to prosecute and she accepted it. She decided to get on with the rest of her life.’

However, Mr Economou brought a private prosecution apparently to clear his name, but according to her father he went further than that. Mr de Freitas says that Mr Economou subsequently harassed Eleanor with texts and voicemails, as well as threatening to prosecute her and put her in prison.

Mr de Freitas claims: ‘The police were very tolerant of his harassment. If they’d shown zero tolerance and he’d been accused of harassment, he’d have had a difficult job with his private prosecution, and rightly so.’

The public is rightly very angry when rapists avoid justice. And, equally so when men are falsely accused of rape. But this story is a bit more complicated, isn’t it?

The police cannot be expected to bring a rape charge if they think they’re going to lose. And there must also have been the consideration that Eleanor might have taken her own life if the police had proceeded against Mr Economou, and she had suffered an attack on her reputation in the witness box, and lost the case?

Her bereaved father’s claims of ‘harassment’ by Mr Economou sound shocking, but were they strong enough for the Crown Prosecution Service to halt the private prosecution case he’d brought against Eleanor?

Evidently not, but did its officials take into account the possibility that Eleanor might take her own life if the case proceeded? They should have done.

The truth is that the Crown Prosecution Service is constantly pulled in opposite directions — by those who say it isn’t pro-active enough in prosecuting sex crimes, and by others who say it devotes a disproportionate amount of its time doing exactly that.

It’s vilified by ‘all men are rapists’ feminists and undermined by women who cry rape to punish men who’ve scorned them, or deceive boyfriends who might otherwise think they’ve been unfaithful.

No coroner’s court, or Crown Prosecution Service internal inquiry, is going to bring Eleanor de Freitas back, or assuage to any degree the lifelong pain bequeathed to her father by her pointless death. There won’t be much public sympathy for Mr Economou, perhaps. He’s wealthy, foreign-sounding and clearly felt Eleanor ought to be punished for accusing him of rape.

Men in his position — accused of rape but not prosecuted — are entitled to be angry. But most are grateful when the judicial system — always in need of reliable evidence — spares them a trial.

Few men in a similar position would go on to launch a private prosecution of their accuser, far less would they ‘harass’ them by text and voicemail.

When the police decide not to prosecute for rape, there is often a hullabaloo from the family of the ‘victim’. Not in this case. Eleanor de Freitas, says her father, was content to let the matter rest.

I hope Alexander Economou comes round to thinking one day that he should have done the same.

On 2 June 2016 Mr Economou was acquitted of harassing Mr de Freitas, with the Judge at Westminster Magistrates Court commenting that he did not find that Mr Economou’s “communications by email, or indeed the first delivered by courier, reach the threshold of oppressive and unreasonable.

Felicity Jones plays the wife of physicist Stephen Hawking in The Theory Of Everything, a film which portrays the disintegration of his 30-year marriage to adoring, supportive Jane Wilde, whom he left for one of his nurses.

The actress says the disabled Cambridge professor came to watch filming and asked, via his computer-based speech generator: ‘Would you ask Felicity if she will come and give me a kiss?’ Ms Jones, 31, says: ‘It shows his rather flirtatious nature and this amazing capacity he has not to take himself too seriously. I embraced him and told him: “You’re amazing.” I read about all these great men in history and there will always be a great woman in the background doing the tedious, less glamorous stuff that keeps it all together. These women should not be invisible.’

Nor will they while feisty Felicity is around!

Felicity Jones, left with co-star Eddie Redmayne, plays the wife of physicist Stephen Hawking in The Theory Of Everything, a film which portrays the disintegration of his marriage to Jane Wilde, pictured right with Hawking

The 114-file secret child sexual abuse ‘dossier’ given to then Home Secretary Leon Brittan by Tory MP Geoffrey Dickens in 1983 has been ‘lost for good’, we are told.

‘They have looked inside and behind every single cupboard in the department, and they’ve been around them twice, and they have not been able to find any of them,’ BBC2’s Newsnight was told by a source. I wonder if the ‘paedophiles in high places’, suspected to be named in the files, might have been unmasked in court by now if they’d been former TV comedians or DJs.

John Lewis put me in a real spin

We'd trust department store John Lewis to take care of our banking, according to three-quarters of consumers surveyed.

I’d have agreed until last week, when I spent what seemed like an hour on the phone ordering a tumble dryer from them. I had to repeat myself so often I began to suspect I was the victim of a hoax. Was some hidden camera observing my mounting agitation?

Two days later, I got a call from John Lewis. Had I ordered two tumble dryers? No, only one, I said. But I seem to have ordered two, I was told. The person taking the order did seem very confused, I said. Please accept our apologies, they said.

To be fair, they did eventually spot the ‘two tumble dryers’ anomaly.

Dame Maggie Smith says playing the Dowager Countess in Downton caused her to be harassed by Americans while holidaying in Paris. ‘I love wandering on my own and I just couldn’t,’ she says. There’s a limited amount of sympathy for showbiz people who complain of being recognised. Some say: ‘Where would they be without our interest?’ But this is an abhorrent attitude. It’s bad manners and very uncool to approach someone you recognise from the television. The word ‘fan’ derives not from ‘fantastic’, but ‘fanatic’.

Dame Maggie Smith says playing the Dowager Countess in Downton caused her to be harassed by Americans

The Royal Society For The Protection Of Birds (RSPB) refuses, controversially, to back a Government plan aimed at protecting both grouse and their hen harrier predators. The RSPB says the grouse moor industry cannot be trusted.

Sir Ian Botham, who has challenged the charity, says: ‘More and more people are realising that the hen harriers’ biggest enemy is the RSPB — not rogue gamekeepers.’

Increasingly, many country people are distrustful of both the RSPB and the Royal Society For The Protection Of Animals — the former with an annual income of £80 million and the latter with £132 million. I wonder if their country-loving patron, HM the Queen, shares their concern.

Poet Wilfred Owen was killed, aged 25, in 1918, shortly before the war ended

Under fire... a truly great war poet

Wilfred Owen, The Old Lie, is the shocking title of a new biography of the revered World War I poet by Dr Barry Matthews, who is described as chairman of Galina International Study Tours.

He says the reputation of Owen ‘is founded upon shifting sands’. He was ‘not academically gifted’. He was rather overly fond of young boys. He passed himself off as a member of the aristocracy. He avoided going into battle. He relied on fellow poet Siegfried Sassoon for inspiration. And so on.

I wonder if the centenary of the start of World War I is a good moment to try to destroy Owen’s reputation.

He was killed, aged 25, in 1918, shortly before the war ended. He left for posterity images of what he’d seen that will stand for a thousand years or more. I always think of his group of soldiers, waiting for the end, in his poem Spring Offensive:

Halted against the shade of a last hill

They fed, and, lying easy, were at ease.

And, finding comfortable chests and knees

Carelessly slept. But many there stood still

To face the stark, blank sky beyond the ridge

Knowing their feet had come to the end of the world.

Baroness Kennedy of The Shaws and Baron Falconer of Thoroton appear on TV supporting faltering Ed Miliband.

Helena Kennedy, 64, suggests his problems are all got up by the Press. Charlie Falconer, 62, feels Labour is ‘very keen’ to retain Ed as leader.

====== 2082 ========

MICHAEL HANLON FOR THE DAILY MAIL

After being confronted with petty officialdom and apparently random rule-making once too often, TRACEY BROWN AND MICHAEL HANLON I decided to write a book looking at the way in which the seemingly unanswerable interests of ‘safety and security’ are being used by companies, officials and security agencies all over the world and in all walks of life. ...read

====== 2083 ========

RISE UP AGAINST THE TYRANNY OF THE SAFETY NAZIS: PERSECUTED PEOPLE OF BRITAIN! YOU'VE HAD YOUR LIVES RUINED BY PETTY, NONSENSICAL 'SAFETY' RULES. NOW A BRILLIANT NEW BOOK EXPLODES THE MYTHS

Rise up against the tyranny of the safety Nazis: Persecuted people of Britain! You've had your lives ruined by petty, nonsensical 'safety' rules. Now a brilliant new book explodes the myths

Often 'health and safety' is abused by private and public organisations

Now ID is needed if someone buying Christmas crackers looks under 16



Most reasons given for not using mobiles on airplanes are bogus



Summer 2009. One of us, Tracey, is standing at the back of a long and hot security queue to get into the House of Commons. She is wearing a jacket and carrying her handbag. From within, her mobile phone rings. She goes to answer it.

‘Get off that phone!’ screams an officious security guard.

‘Er, hang on, why?’ asks Tracey who, as director of the Sense About Science charity – an organisation that promotes public understanding of science – knows more about how mobiles work than most.

‘Because we all want to go home alive tonight!’ comes the unanswerable response.

For your 'ealth an' safety: A new book looks at the way in which the seemingly unanswerable interests of 'safety and security' are being used and abused

Exchanges like the one above are an increasing feature of modern life. And after being confronted with petty officialdom and apparently random rule-making once too often Tracey and I decided to write a book looking at the way in which the seemingly unanswerable interests of ‘safety and security’ are being used by companies, officials and security agencies all over the world and in all walks of life from airports to schools, hospitals, swimming pools and parks.

These rules are making life more complicated, more expensive and more frustrating than it needs to be.

If you are travelling through an airport with hand luggage, you will already have dumped your bottle of shampoo and abandoned your water (only to find yourself queuing for replacements at twice the price a few metres air-side from security).

You will have kicked yourself for leaving your good nail file in your toiletry bag as this will now be at the bottom of a ten-gallon drum, along with discarded snow globes, bottles of aftershave, key rings and a variety of artifacts and souvenirs whose plane-hijacking potential could never have been anticipated by their owners.

If you visited the London Olympics, you probably had your picnic drinks confiscated on arrival. And if you have ever tried to find out to which hospital ward a relative has been taken, boarded a train from London to Paris with a penknife in your backpack, taken more than two children to a public swimming pool, or dropped in to help with reading classes at your local school, you will have discovered that, in the interests of safety and security, you can’t. Most of us have encountered safety and security rules that appear to defy logic and common sense.

Terrorism? Liquids kept in containers of less than 100ml can be taken on airplanes - but only if they are scanned separately in a clear bag at security

Cyclists cannot leave their bikes near government buildings because of fears that the frames might be turned into bombs; children have to use more complex encryption in the passwords for their school intranets than the US Government used to defend its Cold War nuclear arsenal. Is all of this making us safer?

We are not arguing for danger. The world is a much safer place than it was even a generation ago and this is thanks, in no small part, to sensible rules and evidence-based measures. It used to be legal to drive a car when paralytic with alcohol; now it is not, and that is a very good thing. We know that in many cases security forces are doing a good, quiet job keeping us safe.

But the rules have to make sense. Very often they do not.

It is probably quite hard, for instance, to blow anything up with Christmas crackers, but that is not the way some people see it.

In December 2013, Ben Meghreblian set off for his staff Christmas party. He had agreed to bring along the Christmas crackers. He grabbed a nice-looking box from his local Marks & Spencer and went to the till to pay for them.

The assistant looked at the crackers, then looked at Ben and asked him for ID. When he asked why, she pointed to a sign on the shelf: ‘It is a criminal offence to sell a product containing explosives to anyone under 16.’ Ben was 34.

SAFETY MYTH BUSTED #1

MYTH: Heat from radio waves and the potential for sparks mean mobiles should ON NO ACCOUNT be switched on at petrol stations. Petrol, after all, is one of the most flammable substances known to man. THE REALITY... Petrol is not as flammable as we suppose. Dropped cigarettes do not light petrol. The chances of a mobile spark doing so are virtually nil. There is no known case of a mobile igniting petrol.

It turned out there’s no evidence of mobiles interfering with hospital equipment, either, whereas walkie-talkies do. Many medics now carry mobiles

He was asked to wait about while a further assistant was summoned who was then able to approve the ID and the sale. To buy six crackers.

We discovered that Ben’s experience was far from an isolated incident.



The Pyrotechnic Articles (Safety) Regulations 2010 seem to have made retailers so nervous that they train their staff to be cautious to the point of absurdity.

Crackers are included in the scope of the pyrotechnic regulations because they contain minuscule amounts of silver fulminate, which is a controlled explosive.

Paradoxically, children’s toy gun caps and ‘snappit’ bangers, which also contain silver fulminate, are not covered by the regulations.

This substance has also caused crackers to fall foul of laws relating to the transportation of explosives.

In 2007 the snaps from 650 crackers destined for troops serving in Afghanistan had to be removed because of a ban on ‘carrying explosives in RAF aircraft’. The irony seemed to be lost on the regulators.

Mobile phones, for some reason, have acquired an almost magical aura of bogus danger.



We have been told for years that we are not supposed to use a mobile phone on an aircraft.

If you questioned it you were probably told that the radio signals they send out as they search for base stations are powerful enough to scramble an aircraft’s delicate electronic controls and navigation systems.

Or that they could interfere with the vital communications between the plane and air-traffic control; or that they will throw the fly-by-wire control system into turmoil. All this is almost complete nonsense.

Deadly serious: In 2006, the 'gravestone hysteria' saw councils topple hundreds of thousands of headstones to protect the public

In 1999 Neil Whitehouse, was jailed for a year after ‘recklessly and negligently’ endangering the lives of everyone on board a flight from Manchester to Madrid. The court was told that he had ‘repeatedly refused’ to turn off his mobile phone when asked by cabin crew.

Experts testified that the phone could interfere with the aircraft’s navigation systems and after the verdict the British Civil Aviation Authority issued a statement strongly supporting the prosecution. Greater Manchester Police, in its new-found role as an authority in the science of electromagnetic interference and avionics systems, did the same.

But here’s the thing: a large airliner will regularly carry several hundred passengers and on any given flight more than 50 of those people will have forgotten to turn off their phones.

How come no crash has ever been attributed to a mobile phone?

We spoke to Dr Martyn Thomas, a software engineer, electronics expert and chairman of the Royal Academy of Engineering’s IT panel. According to Dr Thomas, the mobile phone ban came about partly as a result of conversations and anecdotes rather than research:

SAFETY MYTH BUSTED #2

MYTH: Terrorists hiding in aeroplane toilet cubicles can mix three benign liquids – drain cleaner, nail varnish remover and hair dye – to form triacetone tri peroxide (TATP), which can make fuselage-shattering bombs

THE REALITY...This would require a controlled temperature, specialist kit, hours to prepare, then more hours while it dries to a powder.

UK scientists took four days and 30 attempts to create such an explosion – in a lab! The rule banning liquids has no relevance to commercial air travel

‘It was just a general precaution backed up with a string of anecdotes, none of which could be substantiated in terms of actual [engineering] trials and evidence.’

In fact, we discovered that in nearly all instances where mobile phone use is banned or restricted – general hospital wards, garage forecourts and so forth, there is zero evidence that the use of these devices poses a real risk and no examples where anyone has ever been harmed.

Once the big steel door of safety has swung shut, it has proved very difficult for people armed with the evidence to push it open again.

While it is hard to challenge a rule because it looks like you are condoning terrorism or compromising air passenger safety, it is much, much harder to argue your case if it looks like you may be endangering children.

Yet so often, we found, new and ludicrous rules have proliferated around schools, playing areas, sports grounds and pools – all in the interests of safety and ‘child protection’ and yet which, on closer inspection, are based on nothing more than assumptions – and often a complete misreading by the ‘authorities’ of what the rules actually say.

In 2006 Ken Paine was standing on the touchline of a football pitch in Ashford, Kent. He was there to watch his son Jake play in a local under-16s match. Things turned surreal when he pulled out a camera to take a picture.

He later told reporters: ‘The referee stopped the play, and came over to me and asked if I was a member of the press. I said, “No.” ‘He said, “So why are you taking photographs?”

‘I said, “Because my son’s playing.” And he said, “Well, you can’t do that, I’m afraid.” ‘I said, “Well, why not?” And he said, “Because of the Child Protection Act.” ’

No fire here: The chances of a mobile spark igniting petrol are virtually nil

As parents, we have both been faced with people who have tried to stop us doing things that used to be considered completely acceptable such as taking pictures of our children in sports matches, at football practice and in school plays.

We did some checking, which was no straightforward matter because, like many of these rules, no one seems to be responsible for them. We contacted the Department for Education, the Football Association and child-safeguarding experts at the NSPCC.

We also contacted the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO), which polices the Data Protection Act (DPA). Is it illegal to take pictures of kids playing football? No, it turns out. What about nativity plays and the like? ‘No rules at all.’

In fact, we met exasperation from these official bodies.

The Health and Safety Executive is fed up to its back teeth with cases where ‘health and safety’ is cited without foundation, to justify everything from the cutting down of fruit trees (in case they encourage wasps), to the desecration of millions of gravestones by ‘safety consultants’, to banning triangular cakes from school canteens, because said pastries slightly resemble ninja throwing weapons.

SAFETY MYTH BUSTED #3

MYTH: At the peak of the hysteria, councils toppled hundreds of thousands of headstones to protect the public.

Bereaved relatives were ordered to pay hundreds of pounds to make graves ‘secure’. In some regions, no graveyard went unscathed

IN REALITY... A six-year-old boy was killed in 2000 when he climbed on top of an old headstone. But the majority of affected gravestones were modest and modern, incapable of killing anyone. The senseless policy caused misery and vast damage. The law was changed, but not one person was sacked

So what can you do when faced with a jobsworth in a uniform or down the other end of the line saying you cannot do something that you suspect is neither against the law nor will pose any realistic threat to safety?

Ask for evidence. Ask them to justify it. And don’t accept vague references to safety or security rules. If someone says the DPA is preventing them from being helpful, ask them to explain in what way exactly, and which part of the act is relevant.

As the ICO says: ‘The ICO has just issued guidance urging parents to challenge anyone trying to use the DPA as a duck-out in this way.’

When something has been done ‘in the interests of safety’, that doesn’t necessarily mean that it is in our interests.



Many new safety rules, and much of the modern security business, create self-interested jobs and markets and cadres of self-sustaining bureaucracy that progress from one perceived threat to the next.

So, ‘in the interests of safety’ might well turn out to mean ‘in the interests of a lucrative consultancy that offers advice on internet safety’ or ‘in the interests of a big business with an Olympics retail licence’.

The interests of safety could even mean, we found, ‘contrary to your interests’ or ‘endangering you because no one bothered to check the evidence’, because many safety rules introduce unintended and undesirable consequences, such as discouraging people from learning to swim or to manage risks effectively.

Rules made in the name of safety and security that ignore the consequences lead to a lack of accountability – to the belief that social responsibility has been discharged merely by introducing the rule.

This is the opposite of more responsibility and safety, and it might well explain why we don’t feel particularly safe even though we are surrounded by ever more security guards and safety officers.

It’s within our power to change that. Unless we press the case, organisations won’t drop pointless and counter-productive rules.

But by asking the right questions at the right times, we can stem the tide of safety and security rules and even, as some of the determined people in our book found, roll it back.

©Tracey Brown and Michael Hanlon, 2014

====== 2084 ========

TOBY HARNDEN FOR THE DAILY MAIL

‘Jack assures me that he is going to work to make at least one letter legible in order not to debase our currency should he be confirmed as secretary of the Treasury,’ Obama said, naming Lew as the man he wants to succeed Timothy Geithner. ...read

====== 2085 ========

JACK LEW: OBAMA JOKES HIS PICK FOR TREASURY SECRETARY'S LOOPY SIGNATURE COULD 'DEBASE OUR CURRENCY'

President Barack Obama today formally nominated his chief of staff Jacob 'Jack' Lew as Treasury Secretary and joked that he had considered abandoning the nomination after learning of his illegible signature.

The president was responding to criticism of Lew's scrawl which has been compared to a spring or a curly French fry - and how if it is not changed could become an international embarrassment as the Treasury Secretary's signature always graces the dollar bill.

‘Jack assures me that he is going to work to make at least one letter legible in order not to debase our currency should he be confirmed as secretary of the Treasury,’ Obama said, naming Lew as the man he wants to succeed Timothy Geithner.

Scroll down for video



Scrawl: President Obama joked that Jack Lew's loopy signature could devalue the national currency at Lew's nomination in January

Bizarre: The 'childish' signature of Jack Lew, the new Treasury Secretary in the U.S., has raised eyebrows

Money matters? If Lew kept the old signature, it would have looked like this on the dollar bill

Lew, 57, ‘has my complete trust’, Obama said, arguing that the former White House budget director was the best man to help stabilize the US economy, not least because he had helped negotiate bipartisan deals in the 1980s.

‘Jack has the distinction of having worked and succeeded in some of the toughest jobs in Washington and the private sector,’ he said, citing Lew's work as a senior aide to legendary former House Speaker Thomas ‘Tip’ O'Neill and as budget director in the Clinton administration.

‘As a congressional staffer in the 1980s, he helped negotiate the deal between President Reagan and Tip O'Neill to save Social Security. Under President Clinton, he presided over three budget surpluses in a row.

‘So for all the talk out there about deficit reduction, making sure our books are balanced, this is the guy who did it three times,’ as Lew and Geithner stood beside him.

Common problem: Lew wisecracked that he did not know that he shared a 'common challenge with outgoing Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, left, who had a similarly bad signature

Old version: Outgoing Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner used to have a signature like the one seen here

Currently, the $20 bill features the face of seventh US president Andrew Jackson, who became much maligned due to this treatment of Native Americans

Obama said that a big reason for Lew's ability to get things done in Washington was that he was ‘a low-key guy who prefers to surround himself with policy experts rather than television cameras’ and grandstanding.

‘Over the years he's built a reputation as a master of policy who can work with members of both parties and forge principled compromises. Jack has my complete trust. I know I'm not alone in that."

Speaking after Obama, Lew said he dreamed of ‘making a difference in the world’ as a child being raised Queens, New York, and he had been doing that in the Obama administration.

‘It's really been a privilege to come to work every day as part of a team that's dedicated to building a sound economy and a safer world.’

Lew also joked about his bizarre signature comprised of a series of loops, pictures of which spread virally across the Internet on Wednesday after news broke of his impending nomination.

He said that ‘it was only yesterday that I discovered that we both share a common challenge with penmanship’. Geithner has said he had to modify his own signature to make it readable on the currency.

The Senate is widely expected to confirm Lew as Treasury Secretary after already having confirmed him as budget director in 2010. Some Republicans, however, already are raising concerns that Lew's nomination signals Obama will be unwilling to agree to more deficit reduction.

Lew, 57, was managing director for Citigroup from July 2006 until the end of 2008, when he joined the Obama administration.

A SIGN FOR SORE EYES: WHO DO THESE ODD SIGNATURES BELONG TO?

Can you guess who these other bizarre signatures belong to? 1. This beloved British author is no wiz at signing







2. He's signing here !







3. Does this aggressive, determined signature suggest the monstrous man using the pen?







4. Imagine reading all his plays in this writing









5. This signature adorned many significant documents in the nation's early history







6. Many might expect Captain Jack to have such flamboyant penmanship

















Answers: 1. J. K. Rowling; 2. Robert De Niro; 3. Adolf Hitler; 4. William Shakespeare; 5. George Washington; 6. Johnny Depp





VIDEO Obama nominates Lew for Treasury Secretary...









====== 2086 ========

ROY HATTERSLEY FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Women like Betty — strong women of the old school — learned ‘to make the best of things’, says ROY HATTERSLEY. The character radiated contempt for fuss and bother, impatience with whining and an unshakable belief in the blessing of hard work. There are less of her type about than there once were. And society is worse for it. ...read

====== 2087 ========

GORE VIDAL: SHARPEST TONGUE IN THE WEST

The sharpest tongue in the West: The waspish wit and elegant controversy of Gore Vidal



A brilliant wit, he was related to - but hated - the Kennedys and thought the U.S. was in terminal decline. No wonder Gore Vidal had so many enemies...

Gore Vidal was entitled to claim that he was the wittiest and most elegant writer of his time. And claim it he often did. For modesty was not his principal virtue. Indeed, it was one of the reasons he made so many enemies.



Asked why he excited so much antagonism, Vidal always explained that he was one of the few people in the world who spoke in perfect sentences — a talent which particularly infuriated literary rivals, whom he said were lucid only on paper.



He made that point during a TV debate with fellow writer Norman Mailer (who he had once likened to cult killer Charles Manson) and Mailer responded by head-butting him. Without blinking, Vidal observed: ‘As you might expect, Mailer as usual was lost for words.’



Opinionated: This 1974 photo shows Vidal during an interview in Los Angeles during which he discussed Hollywood unions, politics, lecturing and publicising books

Vidal, who died on Tuesday aged 86, became famous thanks to his wit. But he was more than an aphorist — he was a serious writer of great distinction: an essayist, critic, satirist, actor and occasional amateur politician.



In everything he turned his hand to, Vidal caused elegant, exquisitely phrased controversy. However, despite his literary success, his money and his looks, he never seemed satisfied with the way fate had treated him. Asked about his occasionally wistful air, he spoke about ‘divine discontent’.



Vidal’s writings are saturated with a sense that the world, and in particular the United States, were in terminal decline. The great age of empire was over, and America, he believed, had abandoned itself to the ‘cult of stupidity’. He said: ‘The genius of our ruling class is that it has kept a majority of the people from ever questioning the inequity of a system where most people drudge along, paying heavy taxes for which they get nothing in return.’



The Vidals were American aristocracy. His father, Gene, was director of air commerce in Franklin D. Roosevelt’s administration and was said to be the handsomest man in Washington society. He was also a serial adulterer.



Vidal's mother, Nina, was an alcoholic and, at her worst, suicidal. His parents’ marriage collapsed and Vidal, their only child, was sent to live with his maternal grandfather, Thomas Gore, Democratic Senator for Oklahoma. The Senator was blind. Vidal recalled: ‘When he discovered a grandchild with a passion for reading, I became his favourite.’



Enemies: William F Buckley, Jr., conservative government gadfly and author, interviews Vidal. Vidal once called Buckley as a 'crypto Nazi' on television

Politically charged: Vidal greets then-President elect John F Kennedy in December 1960; he was good friends with Jacqueline Kennedy

His grandfather asked Vidal to read aloud to him — a task the boy rebelled against. ‘After several hours of reading the Congressional Record, I got bored. I was the only eight-year-old authority on bi-metalism (the economic monetary system based on the price of gold and silver).’



The precocious Vidal was educated at Exeter College — one of the top undergraduate ‘schools’ of New England. But, for reasons he never explained, he did not go on to Harvard, Yale or Princeton with other members of his social class.



He then served during World War II as a warrant officer (junior grade) — mostly in the Aleutian Islands of the Northern Pacific Ocean as helmsman on a supply ship.



For a man of his background, a commission would normally have been a formality. Although he claimed his bad eyesight was to blame for keeping him in the ranks, it was his homosexuality (discovered while still at school) that undoubtedly was equally responsible for his prolonged stay on the lower deck.



Vidal was always open about being what he called a ‘fag’ — even at a time when homosexuality risked instant ostracism.



In 1946, the year after he left the U.S. Navy, Vidal wrote Williwaw — a war novel which brought him instant acclaim. This success, though, was short-lived because his third book (The City And The Pillar, whose subject was homosexual life in New York) received a hostile reaction.



The senior book reviewer of the New York Times vowed ‘never to read him again after experiencing this disgusting book’.



John F. Kennedy and Gore Vidal: Despite his literary success, Vidal never seemed satisfied with the way fate had treated him

Vidal spent ten years in exile from New York, some of it in Guatemala, and wrote TV and film scripts and short stories under the name of Edgar Box. He lived in Paris and Florida and his name appeared as a scriptwriter in the credits of several movies such as Ben-Hur.



During this period he befriended the playwright Tennessee Williams, who let him adapt his work Suddenly Last Summer for the screen.



Vidal enjoyed this Hollywood period but he was, by nature, a writer. As soon as American publishers were prepared to risk the wrath of the New York Times, he felt able to return to the written word.

The result, Myra Breckinridge, ‘the story of a character who is apparently a woman, but who turns out to be a man’, was a literary sensation.



Throughout these ‘golden years’ in the Forties and Fifties, Vidal lived the sybaritic life of American high society — securing invitations to the best dinner parties.



There followed a series of novels about the early years of the American Republic. They reflected his view that the Founding Fathers had created a model of democracy that later American presidents had destroyed with their autocratic power.



Talent: Gore Vidal was a serious writer of great distinction: an essayist, critic and satirist

In 1960 — choosing, for a change, to participate rather than philosophise — he stood in New York as a Democratic nominee for the House of Representatives. He lost, but won more votes in his congressional district than John F. Kennedy, the presidential candidate.



Vidal had a family link to the Kennedys. After his parents’ divorce in 1935, his father married the stepmother of JFK’s future wife, Jackie. This made Gore Vidal her half-brother, once-removed.



Vidal was, however, defiantly unimpressed by his association with America’s first family. He said JFK was ‘one of our worst presidents’, his brother Bobby was ‘a phoney’ and their father, Joseph, was ‘a crook’ who ‘should have been in jail’ and who had ‘bought’ the presidency for his son.



He described the Kennedy family’s ascent as an ‘ardent struggle ever upward from the Irish bog’ and with tragic foresight he called the job of the presidency ‘literally killing’ and worried that ‘Kennedy may very well not survive’.



Nor was he charitable about Jackie Kennedy, who he claimed ‘lost her virginity in a lift to a writer from the Paris Review’. For her part, she complained that Vidal had always made her feel ‘like a Philistine’.

Happily, he made other enemies — considering Ernest Hemingway a joke and comparing Truman Capote to a ‘filthy animal that has found its way into the house’.



Vidal had an old-fashioned belief in honour, albeit combined with a modern will to live as he pleased. He wrote in his memoir that he’d had more than 1,000 ‘sexual encounters’. Also, he was fond of drink and claimed that he had sampled every major drug.



Throughout his adult life (for more than 50 years), Vidal lived with Howard Austen, a sometime singer and advertising executive. He insisted that they observed his rule of life that ‘sex drives more couples apart than it holds together’ by not sleeping with one another.



Indulgences: Gore Vidal, pictured here in 2009, was fond of drink and claimed that he had sampled every major drug

Whatever their physical relationship, Austen behaved like a domesticated wife and looked after Vidal.

For 25 years, they lived together in the Italian village of Ravello and returned to America (which he described as ‘the land of the dull and the home of the literal’) only in 2003, so that Austen could be treated for cancer. However, he died later that year.



Vidal continued to produce acerbic and pessimistic essays as well as his fiction. He was a constant critic of U.S. foreign policy and the attempts of successive presidents to impose the standards of the West on developing countries.



He also predicted that the U.S. would eventually be subservient to China — ‘The Yellow Man’s Burden’.



But he remained an essentially American figure. In his final years, saddened by the death of peers and close friends, he still raged about the world and mused about what he had called that ‘divine discontent’.



====== 2088 ========

NORMAN TEBBIT FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Despite some brave decisions and much talk of 'The Cuts', public expenditure is rising not falling, debt is increasing and the monthly deficit this June was higher than last year. Blair's poisonous legacy to his heir Cameron was not just a financially incontinent country, but one with a submerged underclass addicted to welfare. Ill-educated, ill-disciplined, near illiterate and innumerate unemployables living in families in which no one worked, ever had worked or wanted to work and living better than the working families next door. ...read

====== 2089 ========

IN MY DAYS AS TORY PARTY CHAIRMAN, THE PETER CRUDDAS DONOR-GATE SCANDAL COULD NEVER HAVE HAPPENED

In my days as Tory party chairman, donor-gate could never have happened

The most worrying thing about the sorry tale of the deeply unattractive ex-Tory co-treasurer Peter Cruddas is that it is yet another example of a failure by the Conservative leadership to think things through, or to have any regard for the way in which things were managed in the past.



As a former chairman of the Conservative Party who was also a minister under Margaret Thatcher, I was always fully aware that party business and government business should not be mixed.



There is a distinction between the roles and responsibilities of David Cameron as Prime Minister and those of Mr David Cameron as the leader of a political party. Similarly there is an important distinction between the official residence of the Prime Minister at No 10 Downing Street and the Tory Party’s head office.



Careless: The Peter Cruddas saga is another example of how the Conservative leadership has failed to think things through

But these are distinctions that neither Mr Cameron, nor the unfortunate Mr Cruddas, seems to have understood.



Mr Cruddas’s disclosures to undercover reporters - which suggested that donors who contributed vast sums to the Tory Party could not only gain access to the Prime Minister in Downing Street, but also access to the machinery of government at No 10 - show just how intertwined party and government business have become.



Perhaps we should forgive Mr Cameron on the grounds of inexperience.



But the fact is that this is not the first time he has blurred the line between party business and the affairs of government.

While leader of the Opposition, Mr Cameron was forced to apologise after allowing the Tory Party’s deputy treasurer Andrew Feldman - who had no political experience but happened to be his best friend at Oxford University - to hold dinners for major donors in his office in the House of Commons, in breach of Parliamentary rules.



In my book, anyone may be forgiven for making a mistake, but not for making the same mistake twice.



The Tory leadership has tried to dismiss Mr Cruddas’s comments as bluster, but it is becoming increasingly clear that he was authorised to sell invitations to dinner at Downing Street.



When I was chairman of the Conservative Party, scandals like those that have plagued the Government simply didn't happen

This begs the question of who gave him the authority to do so. Was it that same best friend of Mr Cameron - now elevated to joint Party Chairman and given the title of Lord Feldman? Was it the Prime Minister himself? Or was it just another muddle?



The unsavoury nature of these disclosures suggest a Conservative party leadership which is in thrall to the very rich, while dismissive of its traditional grass roots supporters. They also suggest a disdain for past practice that we had come to associate with the Blair years of sofa government, with policy decisions made on the hoof by a close cabal of like-minded advisors.



Scandals such as this did not happen in the past. Not just because we did not have to face the muddles and bickering of coalition government. Nor because the Conservative politicians of my day were any cleverer than our successors, but because we paid more attention to the tried and tested structures we had inherited whether in the Government or in the Party.



Of course we changed those structures where necessary, but we did not simply ignore them. When I became party chairman, I inherited a professional organisation and a finely-tuned infrastructure based at Central Office which was devoted to maintaining and increasing party membership.



The Treasurer, Alistair McAlpine, reported not to me but to the Leader of the Party, Margaret Thatcher, and he had the Conservative Board of Finance to assist him.



That board was not composed of rich spivs but retired senior Army officers who were in tune with local agents and activists and acted with decency and honour. The emphasis was on persuading huge numbers of activists all over the country to contribute comparatively small sums of money.



Donors were vetted thoroughly by the Finance Board. In my three years as chairman, Alistair McAlpine only ever consulted me once about his role. On that occasion he laid on my desk a cheque for £100,000 (a very large sum in those days) and said: ‘What should I do with that?’ I saw the signature on it and replied: ‘Send it back. Today. First Class.’



It was not very long after that the would-be donor went to jail.



Structural differences: Alistair McAlpine reported not to me but to Margaret Thatcher

All that has changed today. The structure that kept fund-raising on the straight and narrow no longer exists.



It always surprises me, though, that substantial and reputable business men believe that in order to make their concerns known to government these days, they have to make substantial contributions to the Conservative Party.



In my time as Secretary of State for Trade and Industry, my office door was always open to business leaders, and there was no admission charge of a donation to party funds. And when those business leaders did come to see me, I took good care to ensure that my private secretary was there to record our discussions. Of course I also met business people outside, often at Party gatherings or social occasions.



Errors: Recent decisions smack of thoughtlessness from David Cameron

Curiously, I think that the only time I arranged a dinner at my London flat was while I was Secretary of State for Employment. That was with the leader of a trades union, at his request, because he did not wish his TUC colleagues to know that we had met.



The trouble is that today, these tried and tested methods have been done away with. And the results are there for all to see. For it is not just the debacle of party donations that reflect Mr Cameron’s method of governance.



Time and again we have had decisions that smack of thoughtlessness and impetuosity - decisions that come back to bedevil him because they have not been subject to critical analysis.



The most glaring example is his appointment of the disgraced former editor of the News of the World Andy Coulson as his communications director.



And in office, instead of Blair’s sofa government, he has what has become known as the Quad - the foursome of the Prime Minister, his Deputy Nick Clegg, the Chancellor George Osborne and the Chief Secretary to the Treasury Secretary Danny Alexander - which meets twice daily to decide policy over the heads of the Cabinet. (I understand that Lord Feldman is also a regular at the meetings.)



Under its guidance, the Government has blundered into damaging rows over the privatisation of the Forestry Commission woodlands, the proposed high speed train route, child benefit rules, new planning procedures and now the so-called Pasty Tax and conflicting advice on whether motorists should stock up on petrol in case of a fuel lorry driver strike.



In every case it seems that there was no proper collective discussion among ministers, nor it appears were most of the proposals ever properly thrashed through with officials in the relevant Departments.



Perhaps some good might come out of this shambles.



For a start I hope that no one at Westminster will delude themselves into thinking that the smart way to avoid the scandals and mud-slinging associated with raising the money essential to enable political parties to function would be to ask the taxpayer to cough up through the tax system.



For its part, Labour should accept that being financed by the big powerful and greedy unions is a major handicap for them.



Bungles: The Government has blundered into damaging rows that has threatened its credibility

Hopefully, that would make it possible for the parties to agree on a limit on the size of donations by individuals or businesses.



If they are wise it would be relatively low, which would give all parties an incentive to rebuild their grassroots membership and raise money at constituency level.



The truth is that elections have become far too expensive in recent years and it is time for a limit, with less national advertising, less polling, fewer focus groups, less PR spending and rather more grown up politics at local level.



====== 2090 ========

MICHAEL WINNER FOR THE DAILY MAIL

In those days you usually didn't know, or care, who the chef was. The idea of a celebrity chef was absurd. These were backroom folk who worked in a kitchen. Now every twit who thinks he can fry an egg is giving interviews all over the place and appearing endlessly on TV, and food has suffered because of it. Restaurants such as Gordon Ramsay's bear the chef's name. Yet when is Gordon to be found in the kitchen, I wonder. Not very often, that's for sure. ...read

====== 2091 ========

WHO SAYS WE GET HAPPIER WITH AGE? I'M GRUMPIER THAN EVER - AND PROUD OF IT!

Who says we get happier with age? I'm grumpier than ever - and proud of it!

Grump: Michael Winner

A new study for the journal Perspectives On Psychological Science says older people are happier and get more positive as they age.

I read it with utter disbelief. But then, the study was by a psychologist, which means its results are about as reliable as getting a tip on the horses from a gardening expert.



The report suggested older minds focus on the positive.



It said over-50s are more likely than younger adults to ‘prune’ their social circle or friends if they find any of their acquaintances ‘bring them down’. That means they’re going to dump a whole lot of people because they don’t think they’re any use to them any more. An example of the milk of human kindness if ever there was one.

The basic thought process — if you can aggrandise it by calling it thought — behind this extraordinary report is that older people are less grumpy than younger people.

What nonsense. I started life grumpy. I became increasingly grumpy with the passage of time. And being grumpy is excellent.

What being grumpy means is that, faced with incompetence, inadequacy, stupidity and all the things that are rampant in daily life, you don’t sit there silent — you let your feelings be known.

If more people did that, the situation all round might improve. Instead, they take the view that ‘we mustn’t complain because we will be considered grumpy’. So they shut up and put up with the incompetence, inadequacy and stupidity.

What good does that do? I’m delighted to say that as I grow older I become less and less tolerant.

I do not wish to live in a tolerant society. By that, I mean a society that tolerates crime and has criminals put away for either a very short time or given soft treatment while the victims are left to fend for themselves.

Many of the wonderful figures in history who have been grumpy are my heroes. Winston Churchill was extremely grumpy, the more so as he became older.

Famous for his surliness: Former prime minister Winston Churchill became ever-more grumpy as he aged

He was great at issuing sarcastic remarks. And none was truer than when he said: ‘A hopeful disposition is not the sole qualification to be a prophet.’

As I become more grumpy, the person I’m grumpiest about is me. When I make mistakes, however minor, I let forth a stream of expletives of the most vulgar nature directed at myself. I’m less flamboyant regarding other people’s failures, but I see no reason not to point them out.

In my job as a restaurant critic, I am always to the point. One of my favourite remarks when there’s a minor delay is: ‘Could you send a search party to the kitchen to see if they can find my main course?’

The waiter always goes away saying, ‘What a grumpy old sod’ — and he’s quite right.

Why should I not complain? I can think, for example, of few more awful people than restaurant receptionists.

When you enter the restaurant hoping to have a nice evening out and be well greeted, the receptionist looks up and says in a surly voice: ‘Do you have a reservation?’ As if, without a reservation, you are a non-person.

I say, ‘Go back to receptionist school’, and walk past them.

I’m sure they say to their friends: ‘We had that terrible old grump Michael Winner in last night.’ If expecting a bit of hospitality from what is laughingly known as the hospitality industry is unreasonable, then I am extremely grumpy and delighted to be so.

I also become very grumpy when things go wrong, such as when I order flowers and they don’t get there, or when people assure me they’re going to turn up on time, but don’t.

My friend Simon Cowell is the most polite and courteous man ever and greatly believes in good manners. But he is incapable of turning up anywhere on time.

Once, in Barbados, he came to a restaurant half an hour late and said to me: ‘On a scale of one to ten, Michael, how angry are you?’ I said: ‘Well over ten, Simon. It is extremely rude to keep people waiting.’

His great friend Philip Green remarked in his speech at Simon’s 50th birthday party: ‘I’ve got him a special present: Big Ben.’

The point is that I didn’t have the courage to be very grumpy when I was young. Wisdom came upon me with the passage of decades and now I don’t care what anybody thinks about it. Being grumpy simply means you will not stand any nonsense.

The point is that I didn’t have the courage to be very grumpy when I was young. Wisdom came upon me with the passage of decades and now I don’t care what anybody thinks about it. Being grumpy simply means you will not stand any nonsense.

During my years in the film industry, I came across any number of grumps. My friend Robert Mitchum, who I was directing in a movie, was marvellously grumpy. He complained about everything.

Referring to what he thought was a heavy workload, he saw a horse go by and said: ‘The only difference between that horse and me is he can go to the toilet in the street and nobody minds.’

Burt Lancaster was such a grump that he not infrequently hit people. He tried to kill me three times, yet he was one of my best friends.

Burt became particularly grumpy when anyone tried to take his photograph, be it a professional, a paparazzo or member of the public.

In Vienna, we were making a movie and Burt was some distance away waiting for his call to action. My assistant said: ‘Look over there — Burt’s beating up a member of the public.’ Someone had got through the crowd barrier and stuck a camera in Burt’s face. Burt was slapping him about in full view of thousands of onlookers with cameras.

Marlon Brando could be extremely irritable. Once, in New York, Marlon got so furious that he broke a photographer’s jaw. Burt rang me and said: ‘Well, your friend Marlon’s done better than me — he’s inflicted serious bodily harm on one of them.’

Extremely irritable: Winner's pals in the film industry Marlon Brando and Robert Mitchum were so grumpy they would attack people who photographed them

Charlie Bronson could be grumpy. Every day we had to supply him with an American brand of instant coffee called Yuban. My assistant Stephen would make the coffee and bring it to him on the set.

One day, Charlie turned on Stephen and said: ‘Stephen, you’re watering down my Yuban coffee.’

What benefit could Stephen possibly have got from watering down his coffee? But Charlie loved to have a grumble.

I‘m delighted that, as I’ve become older, I put up with less and less. The British hate grumbling. They’re pathetic at it. You get six British people dining in a restaurant. Everything is a disaster. They get the wrong food. Someone doesn’t get served what they ordered at all. Even if it’s right, the food is horrible.

At the end of the meal, the Maitre ‘D comes over and says: ‘How was everything?’ And they all smile, nod their heads and say: ‘Lovely, lovely.’

That is a betrayal of what they really believe in. A betrayal of the grumblers’ charter.

Why are they afraid to make their point? Because the British believe it is bad manners to make a fuss. That’s why they put up with anything and that’s why the country’s in the state it is.

Grumbling should never be well-mannered or under control. It should be full-blooded. It should be rampant.

====== 2092 ========

JOHN KETTLEY FOR THE DAILY MAIL

For those now looking forward to a holiday at home there is still hope. In the past there have been several occasions when the hottest weather of the summer has arrived in early August – notably the exceptional heatwave eight years ago, when many thousands of people across Europe died from the effects of heat exhaustion. ...read

====== 2093 ========

UK WEATHER FORECAST: AFTER ONE OF THE MILDEST NOVEMBERS ON RECORD, PREPARE FOR SNOW

It may have been one of the mildest Novembers on record - but now prepare for snow



By November 24 last year most of the country was already frozen over, with widespread severe frosts, deep snowfall and travel chaos.



The deepest falls were covering East Scotland, the North East, East Anglia and the South East, with huge drifts affecting hilly parts of the North. Altnaharra, in the far North of Scotland, felt -21C.



More snow fell through to the start of the Christmas break, bringing severe frosts, but milder weather and rain arrived before New Year.

Cold: Deer enjoy the first frost after the overnight temperature fell to minus 1 at Normanby Hall Country Park in Lincolnshir

This November was totally different, being the second mildest on record. It ended very wet and windy, especially in the North West, where flooding and wild weather was most severe.



Last Tuesday a squall line lifted wind gusts to 74mph at Capel Curig, Snowdonia, with heavy, driving rain spreading east through the afternoon.

Central Scotland was worst hit.

Glasgow Bishopton recorded 2.6ins (66mm) of rain in 24 hours and Greenock suffered rising floods.

====== 2094 ========

ELTON JOHN REVIEW: EVERY TEN MINUTES HE PULLS OUT ANOTHER CLASSIC

Elton John Madison Square Garden, New York

Rating:

Everywhere you look in pop music, someone is saying goodbye. For Soft Cell, this took the form of a single London show. For Sir Elton John, it means a world tour, spanning 300 nights.

The Farewell Yellow Brick Road tour includes a lap of honour round Britain next summer, then another before Christmas – Christmas 2020, that is. At 71, Elton is so desperate to spend more time with his family that he’s going to leave the stage in three years flat.

He has quit touring before, back in 1977, only to return two years later. He clearly adores his young sons, but he loves performing too. He’s like a friend who solemnly assures you she won’t touch a cigarette after her 40th birthday, when she’s 37.

For a tubby septuagenarian sitting on a stool, Elton certainly knows how to catch the eye. After arriving as a posh Pearly King in a tailcoat, he squeezes into a suit made of pale pink silk

In showbiz, retiring is not so much a statement of intent as an excuse for a party. This tour features Elton’s familiar band and something like his usual set list, but he goes to town with the visuals and the reminiscences, turning the Yellow Brick Road into Memory Lane.

For a tubby septuagenarian sitting on a stool, he certainly knows how to catch the eye. After arriving as a posh Pearly King in a gem-encrusted tailcoat, he squeezes into a suit made of pale pink silk, like the bomber jacket on the cover of Goodbye Yellow Brick Road. Of the 24 tracks he plays, six come from that album, which may be his best.

The set, designed by Stufish in London and built by Tait in Pennsylvania, deploys a giant picture frame with highlights from Elton’s CV carved into it, from John Lennon, who shared this stage with him in 1974, to Billy Elliot.

IT'S A FACT Its lyrics don’t mention her, but Philadelphia Freedom was written for Elton’s friend Billie Jean King. The title is the name of her squad.

The effect is cheesy but charming. The piano, a Yamaha grand, sits there as ever, stage right – until, with Elton still playing, it slides over to stage left. The driverless car has been overtaken by the driverless piano.

On the screen, conventional close-ups alternate with bright ideas. For Crocodile Rock, Elton’s old costumes reappear, worn by giggling fans. For Candle In The Wind, there’s footage of Marilyn Monroe, pouting, flirting, then suddenly beset with sadness. Princess Diana isn’t mentioned, but she is on many people’s minds.

Elton keeps pausing to reflect, lucidly, as befits a man now working on his memoirs. He relives the moment in 1990 when he reached rock bottom – ‘I was a drug addict’ – and launched his Aids Foundation, which has now raised $400 million. He thanks the fans, with feeling: ‘The greatest thing a musician can have is a rapport with another human being.’

That bond was forged, above all, by his great Seventies ballads. Every ten minutes he pulls out another classic: Rocket Man, Daniel, Don’t Let The Sun Go Down On Me – the true theme tune of this tour – and finally, after rather too many wedding rockers, a majestic Your Song and a soaring Goodbye Yellow Brick Road.

With the stalls engulfed in yellow confetti, Elton makes a little joke at his own expense. He leaves on a stairlift. By the time this tour ends, he may well need it.

Elton John plays the 1st Central County Ground, Hove, on June 9 and Cardiff City Stadium on June 15. eltonjohn.com

Boy George And Culture Club

Motorpoint Arena, Nottingham Touring until Fri

Rating:

Well, it wouldn’t be Culture Club without a bit of bickering. We’re 20 seconds into David Bowie’s Let’s Dance and the second guitarist reckons Boy George just shouted out the name of the wrong city.

‘What did I say?’ queries George. ‘You said Birmingham,’ the guitarist suggests. ‘I said Nottingham, you d***,’ the singer replies sharply. Then a smile and a second, clearer attempt: ‘Nottingham!’

That’s Boy George at 57 – still the odd prickly moment, but charming with it. And he’s keen, you sense, to do this right: the band’s biggest tour in decades, on the back of a decent new album, Life.

That’s Boy George at 57 – still the odd prickly moment, but charming with it. And he’s keen, you sense, to do this right: the band’s biggest tour in decades, on the back of new album, Life

In Culture Club’s heyday, they were hotter than you might entirely recall. But the band dissolved in 1986 and haven’t strayed back into fashion since.

Who knows, now might be the time. Opener God & Love proves they’re not just a museum piece, though there are plenty of hits, too.

Karma Chameleon ends the night like a hymn, the music dying away leaving only organ, voices and a sense of a pop phenomenon determined not to be forgotten.

Adam Woods

THIS WEEK'S CD RELEASES

By Adam Woods

Rolling Stones Beggars Banquet Out now

Rating:

Beggars Banquet found the Stones at their most diabolical (Sympathy For The Devil) and sleazy (Stray Cat Blues), but also at their sweetest (Factory Girl, No Expectations) and most idealistic (Street Fighting Man). Perhaps their most concisely fine album, now newly remastered and lovingly repackaged

Boyzone Thank You & Goodnight Out now

Rating:

====== 2095 ========

MARTIN SAMUEL - SPORT FOR THE DAILY MAIL

MARTIN SAMUEL - CHIEF SPORTS WRITER: They must have been feeling very generous at Paddy Power the day they let Daniel Sturridge's cousin place £10,000 on him going to Inter Milan. Try it. Try to get 10 grand on a footballer going anywhere in the January transfer window. Try to put it on Anthony Martial, say. The market exists. Martial to Inter Milan before February 1, 2019, is 3-1 with Paddy Power. And here is how much of £10,000 they want to lay — 83 quid. Anything more and the customer is advised to contact them directly and we all know the way that conversation goes. ...read

====== 2096 ========

MARTIN SAMUEL: SCUDAMORE DIDN'T GET LUCKY AND MONEY DOESN'T MATTER MOST IN THE TAYLOR CASE

Previously Martin Samuel was telling us how awful the 2018 Word Cup in Russia and the UEFA Nations League would be and that they should be called off. Now that they’ve both turned out to have value and to be exciting, entertaining and unpredictable, he’s telling us we have every right to get carried away with them. I’m certainly enjoying what has happened so far, but I’m sure he'll give me a Smiths Headmaster Ritual-style crack on the head for daring to point that out. Cloughie2000, United States.

Hardly, because I’ve moved on since 1985. It made me laugh the other week when I read Julie Burchill on Brexit in the Telegraph and she described John Lydon and Morrissey, who she said were pro-Leave, as ‘icons of rebellion’. In 1986, maybe, which is about the last time either of them made music worth listening to. Still, it figures. Anyway, back to our first poster whose false memory appears to be playing tricks again. No, I didn’t say the Russian World Cup should be called off or that it would be horrible – I said it shouldn’t have gone to Russia in the first place and I stand by that. It shouldn’t have gone to Qatar either, but will the football, the tournament, be bad in 2022? In all likelihood not, because it’s the World Cup and it rises above even the basest motives.

As for the UEFA Nations League, it is in its infancy. Wait until the confusion of the other qualifying rounds, the play-off stage and the entirely unworthy teams that will be taking their place in the finals competition are revealed before jumping to conclusions. As it stands, Georgia, Belarus, Kosovo, Macedonia, Scotland and Finland are all among the countries guaranteed a place in the play-offs in March 2020. All those pronouncing the Nations League a success do not appreciate we aren’t even at half-time yet. Anyway, musically, rather than hark back to Morrissey’s fleeting heyday, here’s something that appeared 17 days not 33 years ago. Much better. Got to keep moving people. Five points next.

