In the letter, copies of which were sent to both Georgie and Mrs Reeve, he added that: ‘Mrs Reeve does not deny the existence of Henry, though she has no relationship with him and does not want one,’ and said discussions had been held with Mrs Reeve ‘about how she might pray for Henry and perhaps in some future time be able to relate to him in some way that honours Mr Reeve and him.’

Georgie says she would like the Reeve family to be involved in Henry’s life. For now, the only member of the Reeve family to have met the baby is his uncle William.

‘He’s a really sweet chap and I worry about his future because this is absolutely no way to begin life,’ William told the Mail. ‘Everyone needs to focus on putting this behind them.’

William’s support for Georgie may have been influenced by a furious row within the Reeve family itself about the future of its estate. Leadenham has been passed down through generations since the 18th century, but was partitioned after Mrs Reeve divorced Peter in 2011.

If his uncle is successful, the future for baby Henry may yet prove to be rosy.

Georgie insists: ‘I never expected — or wanted — James to marry me.’ She adds: ‘I just want him to do the right thing by Henry. What’s happened has happened, and I’m sure James would be amazing at fatherhood if he just gave it a chance.’

Mrs Reeve and James both refused to comment.

====== 1879 ========

BRITISH FIZZ THAT'S BETTER THAN PROSECCO: SPARKLING WINE THAT COSTS £16 A BOTTLE BEATS FRENCH RIVALS

The sparkling win which topped the competition for alternatives to champagne

English sparkling wine continues to go from strength to strength, beating competition from prosecco and other well-established foreign fizzes in expert taste tests

The Denbies Chalk Valley Sparkling Brut NV, from Surrey, was awarded the highest score by a panel looking at affordable alternatives to champagne.

Judges assembled by the consumer group Which? described the wine, sold exclusively at Morrisons, as a ‘brisk fizz’ with a ‘tropical fruity flavour’. And at £16 a bottle, it means buying British needn’t break the festive budget.

Historically, English wines have been at the premium end of the supermarket drinks aisles, following a series of awards that have seen them beating champagne in blind taste tests. But now British producers, who use the same methods that produce champagne, are increasing their output dramatically, allowing them to offer relatively low prices.

This summer’s heatwave has led to a record grape harvest and a vintage year for English and Welsh wine, with further stellar growth expected.

Earlier this week, Ridgeview, which makes sparkling wine in East Sussex, was named Winemaker of the Year in the International Wine & Spirit Competition for 2018.

And, increasingly, British producers are progressing from award-winning sparkling wines to deliver high quality still reds and whites.

The Denbies Estate, the largest wine producer in the country, is selling another two fizzes this Christmas through Aldi at £14.99 a bottle – White-downs English Sparkling Wine and a Rosé English Sparkling Wine.

The winning Chalk Valley sparkling wine, pictured, achieved a score of 77 per cent in the Which? taste tests.

Second place went to Sainsbury’s Taste the Difference Cremant, from France, at £11. In third was the £15 Tesco Finest Franciacorta Brut from Italy, with a score of 75 per cent.

The highest-scoring prosecco was the Asda Extra Special Asolo Brut at just £8, which judges described as ‘fun and frothy’.

Which? magazine editor Harry Rose said: ‘For those looking for a change from prosecco this Christmas, our Best Buy English fizz is an excellent option.

‘The quality and choice on offer this year is good news for lovers of sparkling wine. Whether you’re keen to try something different or you’re a die-hard prosecco fan, our experts have found some great supermarket offerings for you to enjoy.’

====== 1880 ========

FORMER FRIENDS LOCKED IN BITTER £11,000 LEGAL BATTLE OVER WHO OWNS A MINIATURE HORSE

When Cheryl Griffiths started dabbling in the world of miniature horses, things moved at a canter.

She quickly became firm friends with the head of the national group Ponies Association UK, Carol Cooper, and then hit the headlines as the owner of what was thought to be the world’s smallest donkey.

But things turned sour after Miss Griffiths sold a horse to Miss Cooper, then claimed she was not paid in time and had to seize the horse back.

Cheryl Griffiths, pictured with Contessa, claims she owns the horse because her former friend failed to pay her for the animal and was forced to seize it back

Carol Cooper pictured, accuses her former friend of trespass and theft after she took back the horse. The case will be heard at Coventry County Court on December 10

Miss Griffiths, 49, has now been accused of trespass and theft by her former friend and is being pursued in a civil court to return the pony, cover the £4,000 cost of buying a similar animal and pay £7,000 in legal costs.

In a final kick in the teeth, Miss Griffiths claims Miss Cooper’s influence has led to her being ostracised by the miniature horse community, with bullying comments posted online and bans from horse shows.

Miss Griffiths says her new lifestyle began to unravel when Miss Cooper, 47, became jealous of the coverage she received for her tiny donkey, Ottie, which was just 19in tall.

Their friendship allegedly hit another hurdle after Miss Cooper was upset by Miss Griffiths’ failure to persuade her new media contacts to get her cat, Winston, on television for his ability to climb Christmas trees.

Miss Griffiths said: ‘It’s horrendous. I’ve had depression. She’s jealous. She wants to destroy me.’

The sales consultant, from Sawtry, Cambridgeshire, began her hobby three years ago after a back injury stopped her riding.

She began to buy horses and entered them in shows, where she met Miss Cooper. But the relationship soured, she claims, last December when she failed to drum up interest in Winston from TV producers.

Miss Griffiths added: ‘It seemed to upset her. She’s used to getting her own way.’ Soon after, they agreed on the £900 sale of her horse, Contessa.

But mother-of-one Miss Griffiths claims when she brought the seven-year-old rosette winner – and another horse to be stabled – to her friend’s home near Fillongley, near Coventry, she was told the initial payment of £500 in cash was not available. Instead, she was asked to invoice Miss Cooper’s boyfriend, Turkish businessman Tolga Falahat.

‘I told her if I didn’t get the money by Sunday I would collect the horses,’ she said, adding that when no money was paid after several days, she went to the stables and took the horses.

She then received a letter from a solicitor acting for Mr Falahat, warning she would be taken to court if Contessa wasn’t returned in a week. It stated: ‘Carol was so distressed that these animals... had been taken she collapsed and began to vomit.’

It claimed the sale was based on an oral contract with no dates of payment mentioned. Miss Griffiths refused to return Contessa and the case will be heard at Coventry County Court on December 10.

Mr Falahat’s solicitor said the accusations against Miss Cooper were ‘categorically and wholly denied’.

====== 1881 ========

ASPIRING TORY MP USED FAKE PASS HE BOUGHT ONLINE TO POSE AS 'LORD CRAMP' AND SNEAK INTO PARLIAMENT

An aspiring Tory MP posed as the ‘youngest hereditary lord’ to slip into Parliament using a counterfeit security pass he bought online for £10.

Jack Cramp, 21, claimed he was the grandson of a peer and told Westminster bar staff he was ‘Lord Cramp’ as he caroused with politicians.

The IT consultant and former council election candidate sparked a security scare as drinkers became suspicious about his youth and his unconvincing security pass.

Jack Cramp, in blue suit he insisted on wearing in jail , is pictured on BBC’s Question Time. He claimed he was the grandson of a peer and told Westminster bar staff he was ‘Lord Cramp’ as he caroused with politicians

He was apprehended quickly by Scotland Yard officers and jailed for 26 weeks earlier this month after admitting fraud.But he was released from Wandsworth Prison after just over a week, complaining his sentence was too harsh. His lawyer also said his client’s habit of wearing a dark blue suit at all times made him ‘stand out like a sore thumb’ in prison.

The bizarre sequence of events began when bespectacled Cramp – a regular in the audience on BBC’s Question Time – turned up at Parliament in June. Over several hours he mingled with MPs, researchers and officials in the Stranger’s Bar, the Sports and Social Bar and Parliament’s riverside terrace.

But he was reported to security by a political assistant who recognised him from previous Conservative Party events.

The aspiring MP sneaked into the Houses of Parliament, above. The court heard Cramp’s parents are divorced and he lives with his grandparents in Ruislip, north west London

Cramp ran away and threw his fake pass into a bin but retrieved it after being caught by police nearby.

They discovered it had ‘novelty’ written on the back. He admitted using the fake pass, which he bought on the internet, and said he had chatted to Paul Scully, the Tory MP for Sutton and Cheam.

Mr Scully said: ‘I remember speaking to Jack Cramp who was smartly dressed in a jacket. I do remember him flashing his pass.

‘He did this by just moving his jacket to one side. I saw what looked to be a poorly made up Lords pass. I thought that this was some sort of joke as he was laughing as he showed me.’

Cramp was charged with using a false instrument and jailed this month by a district judge at Westminster magistrates’ Court for 26 weeks.

But he appeared at Southwark Crown Court on Thursday – after just eight days languishing in a cell – to complain that the sentence was too harsh.

The court heard Cramp’s parents are divorced and he lives with his grandparents in Ruislip, north west London. On May 3 he stood, unsuccessfully, as a Tory candidate in council elections in the London borough of Hillingdon.

His solicitor James Skelsey admitted it would now be hard for Cramp to follow his passion for a life in politics but said there was no malice in his actions.

‘He has already suffered in terms of immediately receiving a custodial sentence,’ said Mr Skelsey.

‘This is not months and months of planning – it is hard to say it is sophisticated. It is immediately obvious it is the wrong pass because it is the old style.’

He appeared at Southwark Crown Court, above, on Thursday – after just eight days languishing in a cell – to complain that the sentence was too harsh [File photo]

Judge Christopher Hehir reduced Cramp’s jail sentence to 12 weeks, suspended for two years, after a successful appeal.

He asked: ‘Would it be unfair to categorise him as a little bit of a Walter Mitty character?’ The judge added: ‘This is a very, very unusual case, and presents for any court a difficult sentencing exercise.

‘He did not mean harm to the fabric of the building or members of parliament.

‘We do believe in light of everything we have heard on your behalf, that you are somebody who is very unlikely to be in the dock of the criminal courts again.’

====== 1882 ========

GRANDFATHER'S FURY AFTER HIS 'AUTISTIC 11-YEAR-OLD GRANDSON LOSES £3,000 ON BET365

A pensioner has accused Bet365 of ‘burying its head in the sand’ over child gambling after it refused to accept that his autistic grandson used his account to place thousands of pounds of bets.

Richard Powell said Owen, 11, went on to his computer while he was out and played what he called ‘granddad’s horse racing game’, unknowingly losing £3,300 in the process.

The 72-year-old approached the company with evidence that he was out, as well as school and medical records showing his grandson’s condition, but Bet365 said it did not prove that he did not make the bets.

Richard Powell, right, approached Bet365 which is headed by Denise Coates, left, to seek a refund after his 11-year-old grandson had placed bets on horse races worth £3,000

He has fought the firm for four years but says it has now told him it will only talk to him through lawyers, which he cannot afford.

Mr Powell, a retired insurance underwriter, said it was an example of using ‘corporate muscle’ against a poor pensioner.

The company may also be in breach of its licence conditions, as laid down in the Gambling Act 2005, which say money staked by minors must be refunded. Mr Powell said: ‘It horrifies me. I’m telling them about a child betting and they are just putting their head in the sand about it.

‘Bet365 are encouraging children to bet and they are lying about not doing it.’

On Thursday it was revealed that the firm’s billionaire boss Denise Coates had awarded herself a £265million pay packet this year. Gambling campaigners described the figure as ‘obscene’. It is 150 times what the company has pledged to gambling addiction charities, under what is known as the ‘voluntary levy’, and made Mrs Coates the country’s best-paid boss.

Mr Powell has sent more than a dozen letters directly to Mrs Coates and enlisted his local MP to speak to her, all to no avail. The pensioner, who lives with his disabled wife Eileen in Perth, Scotland, said: ‘Bet365 have been totally unsympathetic. They told me to take the case to court in the knowledge that… we have no funds to do this.

‘They quoted “terms and conditions” to justify their stance.

‘The fact is that the bets were placed by a legal minor so Bet365 are obliged to refund the stake money. This is the heart of the Gambling Act 2005.’ According to section 83 of the Act, all stakes bet by a legal minor have to be refunded to the account holder ‘as soon as is reasonably practicable’.

On Wednesday a major report said 450,000 children gamble regularly through fruit machines, bingo, betting shops or online. Around 30,000 had played on gambling websites or smartphone apps, with many using a parent or guardian’s account, the Gambling Commission report said. Mr Powell said his grandson, now 15, has a ‘track record’ of misusing his mother’s computer, once spending more £1,000 with Amazon, which the firm refunded.

He added Owen was a ‘computer whizz’ but does not understand the value of money.

His wife was in the house but was not concerned when Owen went on the computer, because he was allowed to play games on it.

Brian Chappell, of Justice for Punters, which has been helping Mr Powell, said: ‘Gambling companies like Bet365 just do what they want, so unless you have the money to take them to court they can fob you off with anything.’

Bet365 said last night: ‘This case has been thoroughly and respectfully reviewed on a number of occasions. Based on all the facts before us, we’ve been unable to find that the bets in question were placed by anyone other than Mr Powell or someone acting under his instruction.

‘We are comfortable that we have complied in full with all of our legal and regulatory obligations.’

====== 1883 ========

WHY MILLENNIALS STILL LIVING AT HOME WITH THEIR PARENTS IS BAD FOR EVERYONE'S MENTAL HEALTH

What’s worse than empty nest syndrome? The answer, for many put-upon parents, is a nest that’s unexpectedly full again.

And, according to a major new study, when it comes to mental health, everyone’s a loser.

Around a third of young American adults live with their parents, while in Britain the figure is 25 per cent and rising.

For millennials — those born between 1981 and 1996 — it is fast becoming the most common living arrangement, which is extraordinary when you think about it.

Around a third of young American adults live with their parents, while in Britain the figure is 25 per cent and rising (stock image)

The vast majority of this age-group left home for university or to start their working life never expecting to see their old bedroom again except on visits home.

But the ‘boomerang’ generation has been driven back by skyrocketing house prices and rents, and a jobs market flooded with well-educated people competing for fewer well-paid posts.

The psychological ramifications are serious. German researchers, who analysed data on 20,000 young adults, found those who move back to the family home are at increased risk of depression.

That’s certainly my experience in my clinics, where I’ve seen large numbers of men and women in their mid to late 20s — even well into their 30s — still ensconced in the family home and suffering.

They have lost the sense of self they found at university, and feel frustrated and angry at their inability to establish homes of their own as their parents did.

Scientists find genetic changes in people who commit suicide Scientists have identified four specific genetic changes common in people who have killed themselves, plus hundreds of other possible genetic links to investigate. It’s led to some ill-advised talk about a ‘suicide gene’. Yet unlike other conditions where the presence of a rogue gene or genes all but guarantee that the carrier will exhibit a certain trait, we know that a complex combination of biological, psychological and social factors are involved in depression and suicide. However, I welcome the findings because one day it could lead to extra support and monitoring for those known to be at greatest risk.

Independence — economic, social and residential — is a hallmark of adulthood. And while they understand things are different, especially after a global recession, it doesn’t take away from their belief that life has stalled. This can trigger a regression to adolescent behaviours such as disregard for house rules, petulance and a sense of entitlement so they treat their home like a hotel.

Researchers at the London School of Economics, meanwhile, found the quality of life for Mum and Dad also deteriorates to the point where it’s as bad as if one of them had developed a disability.

I’ve had people tell me how guilty they feel, because a part of them wants to be rid of their adult offspring. They are also saddened by their children’s frustration.

So how can you minimise the disruption? I think tough love is the answer. There must be some very clear ground rules to stop the inner-teenager resurfacing and you subconsciously reverting to the kind of relationship you had with your child years ago.

Shift your mindset — this isn’t a beloved child but a tenant and he or she must pay rent or at least contribute to household costs. Nothing in life is free — even in the bosom of the family.

And stop parenting. Don’t pry into what they are doing and don’t ask when they’ll be back. Never do their washing or ironing. Never open their mail or go into their rooms (unless invited).

If there is an abundance of mouldy socks posing a biological health hazard, that’s their problem not yours.

Limit family meals to once a week, and in general they should be responsible for buying their own food. Clear out a cupboard in the kitchen for them and allocate a shelf in the fridge.

Treating your child like a lodger might sound grim, but in the long term it affords them the distance they need to maintain their independence — and the boundaries you need to keep your sanity.

Tony the Tiger is not a junk food villain

Kellogg’s has had its appeal upheld against a ban on its cartoon characters. Coco the Monkey and Tony the Tiger were accused of promoting ‘unhealthy’ cereal.

Well, amen to that. The idea that foods are ‘good’ or ‘bad’ goes against everything we should be teaching youngsters about diet.

We want them to learn that there is no such thing as good or bad food, just healthy and unhealthy quantities of certain foods.

Kellogg’s has had its appeal upheld against a ban on its cartoon characters. Coco the Monkey and Tony the Tiger were accused of promoting ‘unhealthy’ cereal

I read an interesting study recently which concluded that poorer families ate a less balanced diet, not because parents didn’t know about good nutrition, but because they used fast food to compensate for being unable to afford other things — a new bike or clothes etc — for their children. Despite a lack of cash, a meal at KFC or wherever was proof they could still afford the odd treat.

The opposite was true for wealthier families. Children did not want for material things, so saying no to sweets or fast food was a way of demon-strating good parenting.

Banning cartoon characters won’t help solve socio-economic problems like this.

Bogus medics are truly terrifying

I WAS appalled this week to read about bogus ‘psychiatrist’ Zholia Alemi, who had worked in the NHS for 22 years without anyone checking her false documents and lack of qualifications.

As a result of the Mail’s reporting of the case, the Department of Health and the General Medical Council — which has direct responsibility for the rigorous monitoring of qualifications — are now checking up to 3,000 foreign doctors to ensure that they do actually possess the qualifications they claim.

A hotline has also been established for patients who know or who fear they were ‘treated’ by Alemi.

The failure to safeguard the public in this case is horrifying and I would urge the organisations concerned to check those who qualified outside Britain and who now practise as psychiatrists first.

Being a psychiatrist is a great privilege, but also a tremendous responsibility. Out of all medical specialists it is psychiatrists who are responsible for detaining people against their will when deemed necessary.

We are entrusted with acting in a patient’s best interest when they are too unwell to make decisions for themselves.

We can enforce treatment and restrict someone’s liberty (it is alleged Alemi wrongly had one patient sectioned).

We also work frequently with the most vulnerable in society. With a job this important, we must ensure that every single one of us has the right training and qualifications as an absolute priority.

Older people are three times more likely to hide mental health problems than younger generations, according to a YouGov survey, with many unaware they may be suffering from depression. That mindset is being blamed on the ‘stiff upper lip’. It’s a shame, say researchers, as evidence shows older people are more likely to respond to treatment.

Yet while suppressing your feelings can be damaging, I don’t think we should be so quick to dismiss the stiff upper lip. Indeed, it can be hugely positive. Instead of people revisiting their grief or trauma, they get on with life. Sometimes soldiering on can build resilience — a quality many younger people seem to lack.

Dr Max prescribes...

If you're already feeling a little stressed by the countdown to Christmas, consider dipping into a fantastic book called Mind Over Mood by Dennis Greenberger and Christine A. Padesky.

It’s one of the most successful self-help books ever written and uses cognitive behavioural therapy to challenge unhelpful thoughts and get on top of low mood or anxiety.

I recommend it to any patient who needs some guidance to get things back on track. It would also make a brilliant stocking-filler.

====== 1884 ========

MEET THE MUMS WHO STARTING PLANNING XMAS IN JANUARY

Most of us have only just started to turn our thoughts to Christmas. But our laissez-faire attitude to planning means that, in all likelihood, we’ll be left facing a manic few weeks in the run up to the big day.

Not so these ultra-organised women. They tell Sadie Nicholas how they’ve already got Christmas wrapped up . . .

I'll make four puds - and I've got 20 outfits

Abigail Brown, 39, works in financial services and lives in Market Harborough with partner Guillaume, 36, an engineer, and their daughter, Alice, six. Abigail says:

Abigail Brown switches on her festive fridge freezer on November 10 so she can start preparing the £1,500 food and drink for the festive season

We have many Christmas traditions. The first is the switch-on of the festive fridge-freezer on November 10. It’s ready for the £1,500 of food and drink for the seven days between Christmas and New Year.

I’ve devised a themed menu for each day with spreadsheets to cover every detail, including which Christmas crackers, chocolates, biscuits and alcohol are allocated to each meal. Every year from mid-November, I start practising recipes on friends.

During Christmas week I’ll serve our 13 guests — including my mum, siblings and in-laws — everything from quail to goose and a beef wellington. I’ll also rustle up desserts including four varieties of Christmas pudding: traditional, salted caramel, a boozy one and a chocolate version for the kids.

I bought this year’s cards in the January sales and by Easter I’d finished sourcing gifts for 25 people.

I know I’ve spent far more than the £100 a month I allow myself, so I’ve decided not to tot it up! We have already decorated a 6ft artificial tree. I don’t collect our real fir tree until December 18, as I want it to look plump and lush.

This year I’ve also bought more than 20 different outfits, including a gorgeous rose gold, sequinned halter-neck dress from Monsoon for Christmas Day, and the traditional silly jumper — even though I already have 40.

Abigail has already put up her artificial tree although she will decorate a real version on December 18 for the party season

During Christmas week she plans to serve 13 guests — including her mother, siblings and in-laws — everything from quail to goose and a beef wellington - as well as four versions of Christmas pudding

Our Christmas card photoshoot? Oh, we did that in October

Jouelle Baracho, 39, works for a bank and lives in Surrey with husband Steve, 37, also a banker, and daughters Jiselle, six, and Shanelle, two. She says:

Jouelle Dias, pictured with her husband Steve, along with their children Jiselle, six and Shanelle, two, had their Christmas portraits taken in October

Festivities start in October when we have a professional photoshoot for our Christmas card. Our friends are always desperate to see it drop through the letterbox!

We’ve been doing it since Jiselle was born and have posed in everything from festive jumpers to tutus and reindeer antlers. This year the photographer made her studio a Santa’s workshop.

My cut-off date for having the tree and decorations up, including the outside lights, is November 28, and this year I’ve outstripped my target.

The gifts are bought and wrapped and the invitations have gone out for the Christmas Day party we throw every year at our three-bedroom home for around 30 family and friends.

We play games, open presents, do Secret Santa, eat from the buffet I create, drink and be merry. We’ll kick off with a Buck’s Fizz toast, then move on to various gins, plus Baileys and liqueur shots.

Preparing the food takes me a week. I devise quirky festive names for everything. This year, for the kids, I’ll be making sausage stockings, fish snowballs and meat bauble curry.

There will also be duck, turkey, pork, chicken, side dishes and desserts. Last year I made a Portuguese pudding from biscuits and cream in the shape of mistletoe, and trifles decorated with snowmen carved from strawberries.

Food and drink just for Christmas Day cost around £400, but is a small price for having so many of our loved ones together. Steve and I don’t go mad on gifts.

Now I can sit with a glass of mulled wine and wait for the big day.

Jouelle, pictured with her Christmas tree, said her friends cannot wait for the family portrait to drop through their letterboxes

Jouelle said her cut-off date for having the tree and decorations up, including the outside lights, is November 28

Jouelle said she will be hosting 30 friends and family at her three-bed family home in Surrey on Christmas Day

I've already been dancing in Santa pyjamas

Jaye Gohil-Fisher, 39, is a university secretary and lives in London with husband, Robin Fisher, also 39, a legal director, and sons Hari, six, and Jaik, five. Their third baby is due in April. She says:

Jaye Gohil-Fisher, pictured, put up her Christmas tree several weeks ago and regularly dances to festive songs

Since putting up our tree a couple of weeks ago, I’ve been in full Christmas mode.

My husband keeps walking in on me dancing to festive music in my Santa pyjamas and exclaiming: ‘What is going on — it’s November!’

My deadline to have the festivities up and running is mid-November, as the idea of a last-minute panic makes me shudder.

A couple of years ago I woke on Christmas Eve in a sweat having realised I’d forgotten to buy fresh bread to go with the pate for Christmas lunch.

I shot down to M&S when it opened at 7am.

Ever since, while other people spend December in a tizzy, I’m calm. I’ve even decided on my Christmas Day outfit — a sequinned number bought in October.

I start Christmas shopping in spring, keeping lists of gifts I’ve bought and ones I need, as well as food and drink.

I’m a Christmas control freak and don’t let Robin get involved.

Our tree is up already — the kids helped me to decorate it in their haphazard manner, but when they were in bed, I rearranged the baubles.

I use the same decorations every year because they co-ordinate perfectly with our grey and white kitchen diner.

Jaye sets a deadline over decorating her house in mid-November as she cannot cope with the thought of a last-minute panic

I blow £3,000 a year - and the kids' clothes match the tree decorations

Carly Grayson, 27, is a hairdresser and lives in Hertfordshire with her two daughters aged five and nine months. She says:

Carly Grayson from Hertfordshire, will spend £3,000 on Christmas this year - including almost £600 on food

Christmas at my house is a military operation. Preparations start in January and are wrapped up — literally — by November.

My mum, me and other female relatives have a text-message group dedicated to nailing the Christmas arrangements. It’s a standing joke in the family that I have a dedicated, year-round Christmas cupboard.

I always put my tree up super early — this year’s went up two weeks ago — because it makes the living room look so pretty and cosy after dark.

This year, I’ve decorated the tree with faux roses, peonies and baubles, plus ballerinas that match my daughters’ Christmas Day outfits.

Every year I pay a local seamstress to make outfits for them, and this year the eldest has a tutu and my baby has a matching romper.

They cost £50, but will be keepsakes.

I spend around £3,000 on Christmas — £800 of which I blow in January.

I’m hosting Christmas this year, and the food delivery — which is booked for December 22 — came to £580.

It includes lots of luxuries and my brother and brother-in-law have organised the wine, beer and cinnamon vodka, which cost another £200.

Carly spending on Christmas begins in January so she is fully prepared for the next festive season

I'm the most organised out of all my friends - and they're jealous

Chrissy Davies, 36, is a housewife and lives in Birmingham with her husband Ian, 42, an electrician, and their daughter Cassidy, four. She says:

My tree is up, the presents are bought and wrapped and the Christmas food shop has already been ordered from the butcher and supermarket. I’m by far the most organised of my friends — and they’re jealous.

Planning starts with the January sales, when I start buying gifts, cards and wrapping paper. When September arrives, I step things up a gear to make sure I’ve finished all the shopping by the time the month is up. I never buy gifts online — I love looking around all the shops for the perfect gift, and really make an occasion of it.

I buy for around 20 people and keep a list of what I’ve got for whom, then dedicate a whole day to wrapping everything while listening to Christmas music.

Chrissy Davies from Birmingham begins her Christmas planning in January - including picking up a half-price artificial tree

Chrissy said she never buys anything online as she loves going around different shops looking for the perfect gift

My husband just rolls his eyes and lets me get on with it. But whatever he says I know he loves Christmas, too. Our 8ft artificial tree, which I bought half price for £70 last year, has been resplendent in front of the French doors in our living room for a week already.

Some people may think we’re mad to put it up so early, but I just want the magic to last for as long as possible for Cassidy.

She loved helping me decorate it and this year the theme is silver and white. I spent around £60 on new trimmings, picked up everywhere from garden centres to the supermarket.

Planning well ahead also helps me to keep Christmas to a budget. During the year I pick up luxuries such as chocolates, wine, champagne and liqueurs when they’re on offer and stash them away to spread the cost.

And I’ve only spent around £100 on a fresh food order for the big day. Because I’ve got such a huge family who we see at various points during the holiday, on Christmas Day itself Ian and I like to eat at home on our own with Cassidy so that she can immerse herself in the magic and gifts from Santa.

This year will be her best Christmas yet.

====== 1885 ========

TEACHERS ARE GIVEN 'WELLBEING DAYS' OFF TO GO CHRISTMAS SHOPPING

But more than 9,000 parents in Kent have been fined for taking their children out of school during term over the last four years – one of the highest rates in Britain

Teachers are being given time off school to go Christmas shopping to help improve their wellbeing and mental health.

St Paul’s Church of England primary in Swanley, Kent, says the gesture is meant as a ‘thank-you’ to hard-working staff who go ‘above and beyond’ to help pupils.

It added that all absences would be ‘covered’ by colleagues and no child would miss out on teaching time.

Teachers are being given time off school to go Christmas shopping to help improve their wellbeing. The school is just seven miles away from Bluewater, one of Britain’s largest shopping centres [File photo]

And it seems other schools are adopting ‘wellbeing days’ in December so teachers can hit the high streets without their children and reconnect with friends and family.

But the move has been criticised by traditionalists who say it is setting a bad example to children.

And they add it is hypocritical of teachers to have time off during term when parents face fines of £60 for taking children out of school.

The move came to light this week when James Johnson, a teacher of Years 1 and 2 at St Paul’s, said on Twitter: ‘Oh my goodness! It’s happened again. I love this. Our head allows every member of staff to have a Christmas shopping day.

‘He covers that person for the day. It’s so great to work for a school that values wellbeing.’

The school is just seven miles away from Bluewater, one of Britain’s largest shopping centres.

A teacher at Langshott Primary School in Horley, Surrey, also said they get a half day for Christmas shopping – but later deleted the comment. St Paul’s Church of England primary in Swanley, Kent, says the gesture is meant as a ‘thank-you’ to hard-working staff [File photo]

Headmaster Ben Hulme said the move was aimed at tackling ‘the issues regarding teacher recruitment and retention in education over recent years’.

‘Staff mental health and well-being nationally is at an all-time low,’ he said. ‘As a headteacher, I am keen to do all I can to support, nurture and retain the best staff I can for St Paul’s.

‘This is a way for me to say thank you to staff for going above and beyond what is asked of them day in, day out, such as spending a weekend away on a residential trip or staying at school to help run a movie night for the children to enjoy.’

He personally covers the teachers on their days off, with other non-teaching roles also covered internally within the school.

‘As a result, no teaching time is lost for any child and there is no disruption to the day-to-day running of the school,’ Mr Hulme said. The move has drawn support online from dozens of teachers, many of whom say other schools have adopted the policy.

Primary school teacher Stephanie Brown said: ‘What a wonderful gesture. I know of a few schools who do this and the staff are so thankful for this day.’

While another teacher Sarah Wilson said: ‘We get a half day – it’s much appreciated. For all teachers and teaching assistants.’

Teacher Naomi Takeda said: ‘We have a wellbeing week in December which culminates in a day off on the Friday for all staff and students to reconnect with family and friends.’

A teacher at Langshott Primary School in Horley, Surrey, also said they get a half day for Christmas shopping – but later deleted the comment.

However, Chris McGovern, chairman of the Campaign for Real Education, believes the initiative is an ‘indulgence that schools cannot afford to do’.

The measure was ‘another example of staff setting a poor example’ at a time when ‘we’re fining parents who take their children out during term time on holiday,’ the former head said.

More than 9,000 parents in Kent have been fined for taking their children out of school during term over the last four years – one of the highest rates in the country.

Mr McGovern added: ‘It sets a terrible example to people and I’m afraid it means that teachers are going to be “de-professionalised” and no one is going to take them seriously if this is what they’re doing. They should be putting the education of children first.

‘If teachers want to be respected, they need to set an example by turning up for the job and doing it well. Going Christmas shopping is a bit of a disgrace.’

====== 1886 ========

WIFE OF BRITISH STUDENT JAILED IN UAE REVEALS HE IS IN FRAIL HEALTH

Matthew Hedges’ devoted wife could hardly bear the terror in his voice as he sobbed down a crackly phone line.

It was the first time she had spoken to the young academic – her husband of barely two years – since he was marched from a court to start a life sentence in a hellhole Arab prison.

His crime? Being a British spy. Posing as a student to ‘spy for and on behalf of a foreign state’ and ‘jeopardising the military, economic and political security of the United Arab Emirates.’

Crimes he vehemently denies, and crimes everyone who knows Mr Hedges agrees would be laughable if they weren’t so deadly serious.

‘There is no way he is a spy,’ says his wife, Daniela Tejada. ‘He would be hopeless at it.’

Standing by her man: Daniela Tejada, wife of jailed British PhD student Matthew Hedges

She was in court for the five-minute hearing, during which her ‘good-natured’ husband had stood, shaking with fear, surrounded by armed guards. There were no hugs goodbye, no final words. She had to wait another 24 hours to talk to him. When they were connected, he began with an upbeat: ‘Hello my love,’ but soon cracked.

‘He was absolutely terrified of the idea of spending his whole life behind bars for a crime he didn’t commit,’ Miss Tejada said, speaking exclusively to the Mail yesterday.

‘I could hear the terror in his voice. His voice was breaking and he was just crying.’ The 31-year-old PhD student, found guilty of being an MI6 spy at a hearing in a secretive Abu Dhabi court on Wednesday, was in failing health and suffering panic attacks, she said, adding: ‘I tried to reassure him.

‘I told him this thing had got a lot bigger than any of us could ever expect.’

'We are each other’s rock’: Daniela Tejada said 'I will fight and fight and fight till he comes home’

For Mr Hedges, who spent six months in solitary confinement and signed a confession under duress, his wife’s words are all he can cling to.

Miss Tejada – who says she and her husband are ‘each other’s rock’ – vowed: ‘He won’t live life behind bars, because I’m not going to allow it. I will fight and fight and fight till he comes home.’

Miss Tejada, who is only 27, has certainly been doing that, and her fierce determination and measured words – in public at least – are almost certainly her husband’s best hope of seeing an end to his nightmare.

Almost immediately after leaving the Abu Dhabi courtroom, she penned a letter to the Emirati rulers begging for clemency.

She said: ‘It was from the whole family. We gave testament to Matt’s good character and explained how his family need him home.

‘I am just hopeful that the UAE rulers will see it in their hearts to grant Matt clemency. This is an innocent man’s life, and also it is my life – and I couldn’t be more innocent.

‘I just want to be able to dream about our future.

‘People always ask if my life is on hold while Matt’s in prison, and the answer is always no, because he is my life – and that goes for the good times as much as the bad times.

‘I won’t rest until he is back. Matt deserves it.’

Mr Hedges, a Durham University student, was arrested on May 5 at the end of a two-week trip to interview sources for his PhD thesis into military and security policies in the United Arab Emirates.

UAE looks at plea for clemency The United Arab Emirates was last night considering an appeal for presidential clemency from Matthew Hedges’ family. It also happens that Thursday is UAE National Day – when pardons are granted. Clemency may involve some admission of guilt from Mr Hedges – but this may be seen as being a price worth paying. UAE ambassador Sulaiman Hamid Almazroui said: ‘We have an extremely close partnership with the UK. Because of the strength of that relationship we are hopeful that an amicable solution can be reached.’ Mr Hedges insists he was conducting research for his PhD thesis, but prosecutors said he confessed to spying charges. An expert on the region said the research did not threaten the UAE. Chris Davidson, a former reader in Middle East politics and a fellow at Durham University, who helped to supervise Mr Hedges’ research, said the facts in it were in the public domain. He added: ‘The overall flavour was sympathetic to the UAE, absolutely of no use to an intelligence agency. There was nothing classified.’

Someone in the authoritarian regime clearly took exception to his academic work, and he was arrested as he tried to leave Dubai airport.

He was interrogated for six weeks, held in a wretched cell without a mattress, and not allowed access to a lawyer for more than five months. His wife was allowed to visit him only once, and found him in a trembling state of terror and paranoia.

Week after week she badgered the Foreign Office to intervene, but got nowhere until she went public last month. She said she had to fight for him because no one else had.

However, she is modest about her role, saying only: ‘I don’t think he needs to know what I did, it’s just that I love him, I want him back – he is my husband.

‘We have been married less than two years. It wasn’t even about our marriage vows, I would have done it anyway, but I promised to love and support him “for better or worse”, and, well, this has been at the worst end of the spectrum.’

Locked up for five months alone, without books, newspapers, TV or radio, and subjected to brutal interrogations, Mr Hedges became so traumatised he resorted to making himself vomit every day, as a form of control. Yet, startlingly, Miss Tejada said her husband – who grew up in the UAE and knows the country well – refused to resent the second home he loves and admires so much for what it was doing to him.

She said: ‘Part of my admiration for him is that he’s so good natured, and despite the mistreatment he’s been subjected to, he still doesn’t hold any resentment to the UAE.

‘He is just actually sad that he will now have such horrible memories to associate with it.’

She pauses and begins to well up with tears, adding: ‘When I think about Matt and begin to cry, I always just look up to the ceiling and take a deep breath, and then I can carry on.

Colombian-born Miss Tejada, a PR executive, met Mr Hedges at Exeter University eight years ago when she still a teenager.

Miss Tejada said: ‘Part of my admiration for him is that he’s so good natured, and despite the mistreatment he’s been subjected to, he still doesn’t hold any resentment to the UAE' (both pictured on holiday in Thailand)

She was a 19-year-old undergraduate from Bogota and he was a 23-year-old finishing his masters in Middle East international relations.

‘It wasn’t really love at first sight,’ she confesses. ‘We met in the summer. When we met I actually didn’t think much of him. It took a couple of dates before I fell for him.

‘But he is probably the most noble man I have ever met.

‘He is incredibly good-natured, very smart and a really nice guy.

‘He has a lot of ambition and drive, and I really respect that he is a man of principle and that’s something we share. He’s just a man of conviction.’

Mr Hedges was born in Croydon, south London, and grew up with his mother and stepfather, who had a daughter when he was nine.

The family lived in Dubai for many of his teenage years and, after studying at Exeter, he returned to work there.

Colombian-born Miss Tejada, a PR executive, met Mr Hedges at Exeter University eight years ago when she still a teenager

Miss Tejada said: ‘We dated for a month. Then he went back to the UAE, and we had a long-distance relationship for three years. Then I had to decide what to do, whether to go back to Colombia or what. And he said, “Why don’t you come to the UAE?” – and so I did.’

The couple married in January 2017 on Dartmoor in Devon. ‘It was a winter wedding,’ she recalls. ‘We met in Exeter and we both love Dartmoor. It was the perfect place. It wasn’t very big, there were just 15 people, it was very intimate.

‘Ours is a relationship of commitment built on respect.

‘I have absolute trust in him, and I would never question the character of his work. Over the past few years, I have been his editor and research assistant, so I know almost every detail about his research work.’

But was he naïve to think the notoriously draconian Emirati regime – which routinely locks up drunken British expats – would not mind him investigating its secret services for his thesis?

She said: ‘A lot of people on social media called him an idiot. He’s not an idiot. He knows exactly his field of research, and knows the country, and would not have done anything to offend his hosts.

The couple married in January 2017 on Dartmoor in Devon. ‘It was a winter wedding,’ Miss Tejada recalls. ‘We met in Exeter and we both love Dartmoor. It was the perfect place. It wasn’t very big, there were just 15 people, it was very intimate'

‘It has been a terrible mistake. But nobody should have their security threatened just for producing academic work.’

After returning to the UK on Thursday, Miss Tejada, met Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt and later said she had been assured that British officials were doing ‘everything in their power’ to bring her husband home.

However, a frank statement by Abdulla Al Naqbi, the head of the UAE’s department of legal affairs at the ministry of foreign affairs and international co-operation, set out the country’s position.

Mr Al Naqbi said: ‘The UAE respects the rule of law and is committed to upholding the highest judicial standards.

‘Like all countries with an independent judiciary, it is vital that the government does not attempt to interfere in court cases.’

Two weeks before his sentencing, Mr Hedges was allowed out on bail and his wife was able to fly out to Dubai to stay with him, and help rebuild his strength.

Even after this week’s shocking setback, she still clings on to thoughts of his homecoming.

Miss Tejada said: ‘Matt is a strong man, but is very weakened by this experience and he will need a lot of support.

‘I feel like we are each other’s rock. I’m just prepared to look after him and protect him.’

And what is she planning for a homecoming treat? ‘We love cooking,’ she said.

‘It’s funny you ask, because on the weekend he was due to arrive home, back in May, we were planning to have a barbecue.

‘It was a practice BBQ for the next weekend, which was the royal wedding of Harry and Meghan. He was really looking forward to it.

‘So last week I asked him what he was looking forward to when he finally came back, and he said, “Having that barbecue!”.

‘We don’t care if it’s cold. We love winter barbecues.

‘He will also need a lot of sleeping and trying to recover from these months that have been hell on Earth.’

====== 1887 ========

CHILDREN LEAVE HEART-BREAKING TRIBUTES TO BOY, WHO WAS PULLED FROM RESERVOIR WITH MOTHER

Children have laid heart-breaking tributes to a mother and her five-year-old son after police found two bodies at a reservoir.

An abandoned Peugeot 308 belonging to Emma Sillett was found at Valehouse reservoir yesterday after she went missing with Jenson Spellman on Tuesday.

Today children placed dinosaur-themed tributes to their young classmate at Simmondley Primary School in Glossop, Derbyshire, with one note reading: 'Jenson, we love you forever.'

Flowers and hand-drawn pictures were placed in tribute to him and his mother after police confirmed they had recovered two bodies yesterday.

Children placed dinosaur-themed tributes to their classmate outside the school today in Glossop after two bodies were found at a reservoir yesterday

Pupils have left touching tributes at the school gates this morning after Jenson Spellman went missing on Tuesday with his mother

A schoolmate called Isabelle wrote to Jenson 'I hope you like your dinosaur' in one of the many tributes to appear at the school today

Emma Sillett (pictured, left) has not been seen since Tuesday when she was spotted with Jenson Spellman (pictured, right) at a McDonald's in Hattersley

Flowers were also laid at the school after Emma Sillett and her son, Jenson, went missing. Police have recovered bodies that will be examined today in a post-mortem

Cars in plastic wallets were hung at the school playground in Glossop today as children paid tribute to their classmate

Officers recovered the bodies less than three miles from Ms Sillett's home in the village of Dinting.

Ms Sillett, 41, was last seen with Jenson at a McDonald's just a few miles from her home on Tuesday lunchtime.

Post-mortem examinations will take place today and Derbyshire police said they are not looking for anyone else in connection with their deaths.

Mourners are pictured at the school fence this morning, where people left tributes to Emma Sillet and her son in Glossop

A shocked community in Glossop placed tributes to a five-year-old and his mother after they went missing and police recovered two bodies yesterday

Assistant Chief Constable Kem Mehmet yesterday (thurs) said: 'At 11.35pm on Tuesday, November 20, we received a call to report Emma Sillett and Jenson Spellman as missing.

'Since then extensive enquiries have been carried out by police and external agencies to locate 41-year-old Emma and five-year-old Jenson safe and well.

'After a detailed search by specialist officers, it is with great sadness, that the bodies of what are believed to be Emma and Jenson were located at Valehouse Reservoir earlier today.'

Mr Mehmet said there is no indication anyone else was involved in their deaths.

'At this time our enquiries are ongoing and officers will be in the area for some time to come,' he added.

'Whilst in the investigation is in its early stages we have no indication that any other person is involved in their deaths.

Police cordon off an area alongside Valehouse reservoir, near Tintwhistle, Derbyshire, where her black Peugeot 308 was discovered

'Further enquires are ongoing to establish the full facts of the case. I would like to take this opportunity to pass on my own condolences, as well as those of every officer in Derbyshire, to the family and friends of Emma and Jenson.'

Friends say the mother has recently been dealing with 'underlying problems'. Officers have appealed for the public's help to find the pair.

Her son is understood not to have been seen by staff at Simmondley Primary since Tuesday morning.

Emma Sillett's black Peugeot 308 was discovered at the Valehouse reservoir, near Tintwhistle, Derbyshire (pictured)

The mother and son lived at this address in the village of Dinting, where neighbours described them as a 'great family'

A neighbour, who didn't want to be named, said: 'I'm crying over it, look at my eyes. He was a smashing little lad, this community looks out for one another - they were a great family. It is really really sad and my heart goes out to them.'

When she was reported missing worried friends also took to social media urging Emma to contact them.

A map showing where Emma Sillett was last seen and where her black Peugeot 308 was discovered today at Valehouse reservoir

The pair were last seen on Tuesday at this McDonald's in Greater Manchester and friends are increasingly concerned

Maggie Hunt wrote: 'I'm so sad for her, I want her to know it's ok to come home.'

Jodie Vitti said: 'I haven't slept just hoping & praying she just needs a couple of days to clear her head xx'

Another added: 'I can't sleep for thinking about them. Praying they turn up safe. It's heartbreaking.'

====== 1888 ========

PRIMARY SCHOOL JUST 3FT FROM A BUSY DUAL CARRIAGEWAY AXES PLAYTIME

Andrea Carnevali, 46 and son Giovanni, six, are standing beside the busy A4 in Chiswick, west London, which is choked by traffic

A primary school situated three feet from a busy dual carriageway has had to cancel outside playtimes to stop pupils being poisoned by car pollution.

St Mary’s in Chiswick, west London, has halted playground activities in rush hour to protect children from nitrogen dioxide and other toxic emissions.

Children used to play outside before and after school, but now they are only allowed outside for ten minutes at morning break and half an hour at lunchtime.

The school imposed the measures after discovering it has one of the most polluted playgrounds in the country. It sits next to the six-lane A4 into London, which is used by 100,000 cars every day and is almost at a standstill for two hours every morning.

A single brick wall separates the playground from the road. The measures were imposed a year ago after a study by the Mayor of London found it is one of the 50 most polluted schools in London.

Parent Andrea Carnevali, 46, who has a six-year-old son Giovanni with his wife Manu, is leading a campaign for measures to reduce emissions in the playground.

He said: ‘Pollution can harm the lungs of children. The repercussions for their lives are huge. It’s not just the air pollution – it’s also the noise. Parents and children have to shout to be heard.

St Mary's Primary School is beside the busy six-lane highway which cuts through west London

‘Often that road is chock-a-block as the cars are all at a standstill. Sometimes you cannot help but cough.’

Mr Carnevali, a documentary editor, has lived in London for 27 years after leaving his native Italy as a teenager.

He added: ‘I’m sure my child would love to play outside more, but he is only six so the current arrangement is all he knows. He knows to go straight to his classroom when he arrives instead of running around the playground. What kind of life is that for a child?’

St Mary’s was on a list of 50 primaries which had readings of nitrogen dioxide above the legal limit.

William Hogarth School, which is next door, is also on the list and together the schools educate more than 500 children.

Joan Harte, executive head of St Mary’s, told ITV London News that classrooms are open early for children. She said: ‘They come straight into school, there is no playtime before school begins. That is a sad reality.’

Campaigners want their stretch of the A4 included in Sadiq Khan’s new Ultra Low Emission Zone in which all vehicles must meet green targets or face daily charges from April 2019.

In addition, they want air purifiers in every classroom and a five-foot-high ‘living wall’ of plants between school and road, which could reduce pollutants by up to 38 per cent in the playground.

The school is seeking to raise funds and has been backed by celebrities including David Dimbleby, Jeremy Paxman, and Claudia Winkleman and Emma Thompson.

Evidence this year linked the death of nine-year-old Ella Kissi-Debrah to illegal levels of pollution around her home in London’s Lewisham.

====== 1889 ========

BANKSY PAINTINGS WORTH £13MILLION SEIZED BY BELGIAN POLICE

It comes after street artist Banksy warned about the rise of ‘fake’ shows charging money

He shocked the art world last month when his £1million painting was spectacularly shredded in a defiant political statement.

Now street artist Banksy is mired in controversy again after Belgian authorities confiscated almost £13million worth of his works.

Bailiffs sezied 58 Banksy works from Strokar Inside in Belgium. It comes after Banksy warned about the rise of ‘fake’ shows, staged without his knowledge or permission

Bailiffs seized 58 works from an exhibition, including some of the secretive artist’s best known pieces, such as his ‘kissing policemen’, after an ownership dispute involving his former manager.

It comes after Banksy warned about the rise of ‘fake’ shows, staged without his knowledge or permission. He has said he would only charge people to see his art if there was ‘a fairground wheel’.

The works were removed from the Strokar Inside gallery in Ixelles, Brussels, on Thursday night. The show, Banksy Unauthorised, has now been cancelled.

The seizures came after gallery owners informed authorities that the paintings may not be properly insured and they feared what would happen if they were damaged or stolen.

Paintings by the secretive artist Banksy which were on display at the Strokar Inside gallery in Ixelles, Brussels

He shocked the art world last month when his £1million painting was spectacularly shredded in a defiant political statement in London, above

A lawyer for Strokar said the non-profit group was ‘only providing an exhibition space’ and wanted to ‘protect itself against an enormous risk’.

A tribunal in Brussels, which ordered the seizures, said the works ‘appear to have been displayed without the permission of the legitimate rights-holders’.

Last week, the venue’s owners were contacted by lawyers acting for Steve Lazarides, Banksy’s ex-manager and apparent owner of the majority of the works. He is said to have complained that he had not given his consent.

A poster advertising the exhibition outside the gallery was defaced. The ‘s’ in ‘Banksy’ was scrawled over with a black dollar sign

Yesterday, a poster advertising the exhibition outside the gallery was defaced. The ‘s’ in ‘Banksy’ was scrawled over with a black dollar sign, criticising the gallery’s use of his reputation for financial gain. A collective, called Not Banksy, claimed responsibility.

Although Banksy’s identity remains unconfirmed, some believe he is artist Robin Gunningham, from Yate, near Bristol, or a collective of different artists.

====== 1890 ========

'KING OF COLD CALLS' WHO RENTED MANCHESTER UNITED STAR'S MANSION JAILED

A Lamborghini-driving businessman once described as one of the ‘Kings of Cold Calling’ has got his comeuppance.

Darren Bullough, who ran an accident claims company, was known for his extravagant lifestyle, with a love of ‘expensive property and fast cars’.

But from living in a Cheshire mansion rented from a Manchester United footballer, he found himself residing in his mother’s council house before being locked up this week.

Darren Bullough was known for his extravagant lifestyle, with a love of ‘expensive property and fast cars’

Bullough’s business was fined for plaguing households with nuisance calls and ended up going bust, a court heard.

And as the firm, Direct Assist Limited, was about to be wound up, Bullough took £50,000 which should have gone to creditors and the taxman.

Bullough once earned so much that he rented a £2million mansion in Alderley Edge, Cheshire, owned by former Manchester United footballer Mikael Silvestre, and reportedly drove a £250,000 Lamborghini.

But before the court case, he was living at his mother’s £125,000 semi-detached council house in Bury, Greater Manchester.

The 46-year-old’s downfall was complete when he was given a 21-month prison sentence by a judge at Bolton Crown Court on Wednesday, after admitting fraudulently taking £50,697.94 from Direct Assist, as well as failing to provide company books and records to the liquidator.

Judge Timothy Stead said Bullough had a pattern of dishonesty going back several years. In 1997 he was jailed for 12 months for stealing £28,000 from an employer by false accounting. In 2004 he was convicted of obtaining property by deception through not paying bills.

Bullough set up Direct Assist in 2007 but the company, based in Bury and Bolton, got into difficulties in 2012 to 2013, when corporation tax went unpaid. After June 2013 no VAT was paid.

Darren Bullough rented the The Alderley Edge mansion from a footballer

On September 24, 2014, when the unpaid tax bill stood at £658,000, HM Revenue and Customs petitioned a court to wind up the company.

A day later, Bullough, the company’s sole director, started removing money from the firm.

Around £28,000 went to family members, £3,600 was removed from the company’s bank account and £18,500 was spent on Direct Assist’s credit card.

Judge Stead said: ‘The money you were laying your hands on was not yours to do with as you pleased. Money was removed and dispersed which should have gone to HMRC.’

The company bank account was frozen and Direct Assist formally entered into compulsory liquidation in March 2015. It was £1.3million in debt.

A probe by the Insolvency Service was made difficult as investigators could not find any evidence of company records from July 2013 onwards.

Bullough was also banned from being a company director for seven years.

Direct Assist’s downfall came after the Information Commissioner’s Office fined the firm £80,000 in 2015 for making nuisance calls, in one case phoning a single household 470 times.

More than 800 complaints were made by people who had been called despite being registered with the Telephone Preference Service. The fine was never paid because of the company’s insolvency.

Bullough gave his address in court as the home of his mother, Carol Lewis, 65. She refused to comment to reporters.

====== 1891 ========

FRAUD VICTIMS SLAM HOTLINE MEANT TO HELP THEM AFTER BEING LEFT ON HOLD FOR UP TO AN HOUR

The official fraud reporting hotline leaves callers waiting for up to an hour, it emerged yesterday.

It also charges 35p a minute and is closed over the weekend.

The Action Fraud line was set up to stop police being inundated by calls – with the pledge that its advisers would investigate. Few of the cases however are passed on to detectives.

MPs and campaigners said the service was not fit for purpose and should stop charging for calls.

In September Money Mail demanded better treatment for victims of push payment bank fraud, which cost around £145million in the first six months of the year. This is where customers are tricked into handing over money to scammers often posing as police or bank staff.

Most major banks now have dedicated fraud hotlines that victims can call 24 hours a day, seven days a week. But Action Fraud runs only from 8am to 8pm weekdays.

Fraud victims struggled to report the crimes committed against them when the official hotline kept them waiting up to an hour

For businesses, charities and other organisations, Action Fraud’s call centre is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week to deal with live cyber attacks. Individuals are restricted to weekdays but can report offences online at any time.

As of last month Action Fraud’s call centre, which is based in Scotland, employed 76 advisers. Calls typically cost 35p a minute, unless victims have free minutes with their network provider.

Baroness Altmann, a former pensions minister, said: ‘Charging per minute is not on. This number should be free like 999. We should be encouraging people to report fraud not putting them off.’

Layla Moran, Liberal Democrat MP for Oxford West and Abingdon, said the waiting times were unacceptable.

She added: ‘We know that fraud is one of the fastest growing types of crime in the country. I don’t think Action Fraud as it stands is fit for purpose. Some of the people who call this number have lost thousands of pounds.

‘Tapping a few paragraphs into an online form and pressing submit isn’t always enough. Action Fraud should be a free service. Calling it should feel no different to calling up the police to report any other crime.’

Action Fraud was set up by the Home Office in 2010 and became part of City of London Police in 2014. Of the 809,891 cases reported to the agency since 2015, more than half (450,660) were thrown out by a computer system.

An investigation by consumer group Which? in September found that just 25 per cent of Action Fraud crime reports had been sent to a local police force for investigation over the past four years.

And just four in 100 crimes that are reported to Action Fraud have a successful outcome, the research suggested.

Not every case was passed on to local police to investigate, research showed, as the number of phone fraud crimes increased over recent years

Peter O’Doherty, a detective chief superintendent at City of London Police, said: ‘Unlike many contact centres, Action Fraud deals with victims who are often emotionally stressed or vulnerable. Our call handlers stay on the phone for as long as necessary, dependent on the victim’s needs. This does mean that call waiting times are longer than in some other call centres’.

A Home Office spokesman said: ‘Through the joint fraud taskforce we are working with industry, law enforcement and regulators to reduce and support fraud victims.

‘This includes ensuring the most vulnerable victims are provided with additional support and advice on practical steps they can take to protect themselves.’

Action Fraud’s funding is provided by the Home Office.

In the five years from 2015 to 2020 it is scheduled to receive £36million of investment. It does not receive any of the money from the call charges because this goes to the network providers.

====== 1892 ========

BLACK FRIDAY 2018 DEALS: RETAILERS REVEAL THE BESTSELLING PRODUCTS

Black Friday is well and truly underway, and now some of the UK's top retailers have revealed the products shoppers are going wild for.

Tech and gadgets are all performing strongly, and Amazon has revealed that the All-new Echo Dot (3rd Gen) - Smart speaker with Alexa and the Fire TV Stick 4K Ultra HD with All-New Alexa Voice Remote are among its tops sellers for Black Friday 2018.

Velvet sofas are bang on trend so it's no surprise that a luxurious orange three-seater with more than £300 off is one of Habitat's top sellers today.

Halfords has also revealed its top ten, including a men’s mountain bike with £170 off, while Escentual.com is selling out of a Acqua di Parma Blu Mediterraneo Fico di Amalfi gift set.

At Carphone Warehouse, the Samsung Galaxy S9 and Apple iPhone XR were the biggest sellers of the annual shopping extravaganza.

According to retail sales aggregator LovetheSales.com, a massive 42 per cent of stock across 950 retailers is currently discounted. The reductions are better too, at an average of 37 per cent, compared with 33 per cent last year and 30 per cent in 2016.

Whether you're after new home appliances, a mobile phone upgrade or some pampering beauty and grooming products, here we reveal the top-selling deals on the high street, as well as the best of the rest.

THE BESTSELLERS OF BLACK FRIDAY

BEAUTY & GROOMING

WOMEN'S FASHION

FOR THE HOME

FOR HIM

TECH

FOR KIDS

FOOD & DRINK

====== 1893 ========

MAY REFUSES THREE TIMES TO SAY WHETHER SHE WILL QUIT IF BREXIT DEAL FAILS

Theresa May refused three times today to say whether she would resign if her Brexit deal is killed off by MPs.

The Prime Minister faces an 'impossible' battle to persuade enough MPs to back her deal next month and launched a PR blitz today in a bid to win the fight in the country.

Mrs May announced she would be going on the road to convince voters her deal was the 'right one' for Britain - effectively tying her political fortunes to the project.

But she refused to tell the BBC's Emma Barnett if she would quit if she fails during a live radio phone-in.

She said the deal - due to be signed off by the EU leaders on Sunday - would protect jobs and allow Britain to get on with Brexit in March.

But asked repeatedly whether she will resign if she loses in the Commons - as seems inevitable - Mrs May swerved the question to insist: 'No... I'm focusing on ensuring that we get this deal through Parliament.

'I believe this is absolutely the right deal for the UK. This is not about me.'

Asked again the Premier said: 'I'm focused on actually ensuring we do get this deal through Parliament, because I believe this is absolutely the right deal for the UK.

'This isn't about me. As I'm sitting here, I'm not thinking about me, I'm thinking about getting a deal through that delivers for the people of this country.

'That's what drives me and that's what is at the forefront of my mind.'

The hint will alarm wavering MPs, who fear the departure of Mrs May could plunge the Government into chaos and spark an election. She piled further pressure on MPs yesterday by urging them to focus on other people’s jobs rather than their own.

Mrs May's intervention came after former Brexit secretary Dominic Raab heaped pressure on the PM as she faces 'mission impossible' to get the package through Parliament.

Around 90 Tory backbenchers have now publicly declared that they will vote against the deal in a looming Commons showdown next month.

In a BBC phone in, Mrs May warned that EU is not 'going to give us a better deal' if MPs vote down her settlement

The Prime Minister today mounted another staunch defence of the settlement she has thrashed out with Brussels, saying it is the 'right' one for the country

The grim picture comes as Mrs May scrambles to clear the final hurdle in negotiations with the EU - an ambush from Spain over the status of Gibraltar.

The standoff showed little sign of shifting last night with Spanish PM Pedro Sanchez saying the two sides were still 'far apart'. Madrid wants Gibraltar excluded from a future trade pact, with its treatment decided bilaterally with the UK.

Mr Sanchez has insisted 'Spain maintains its veto' over the draft Brexit agreement during a press conference in Cuba.

So what happens next? If a vote in Parliament on Theresa May's deal is passed, Britain leaves the EU on those terms in March next year. But if the vote is defeated, there are four scenarios: Option 1. Labour tables a vote of no confidence in the Government. If passed, there is a general election 2. Tory MPs force a vote of no confidence in Mrs May. If passed, she would resign, triggering a leadership contest. A new leader could delay the UK’s exit by up to a year, in order to negotiate a new deal 3. The Cabinet persuades Mrs May to seek more concessions from Brussels. If successful, she could try a second vote on the new deal 4. Mrs May forces a second Commons vote on her existing deal (or a new one), hoping market turmoil will persuade MPs to think again If a second vote is defeated there are five possibilities: Option 1. Labour tables a vote of no confidence in the Government, hoping to trigger a general election 2. Mrs May announces Britain will leave without a deal – which could trigger Cabinet resignations and a vote of no confidence in her 3. Parliament votes to keep the UK in the customs union, compelling Mrs May to try to negotiate such a deal from Brussels 4. The Government extends Article 50 to delay the UK’s exit by up to a year, allowing more time for negotiations and preparations 5. MPs vote to hold a second referendum on Britain’s membership of the EU

Asked by reporters in Havana during his official visit if he intended travelling to Brussels on Sunday, he added: 'With regards to Gibraltar, I say the guarantees we have are still not enough.

'I insist, the guarantees are still not sufficient and therefore Spain maintains its veto in regards to the Brexit agreement.

'Logically if there is an agreement beforehand I will go to Brussels.'

Asked by another reporter to state categorically whether he would go to Brussels if Spain failed to reach an agreement with Britain and other EU member states before Sunday, he replied: 'If there is no agreement it’s evident that what will occur is that very probably the European Council will not take place.'

Questioned on exactly what Mr Sanchez was referring to when he spoke about 'insufficient guarantees', the Spanish PM replied: 'I reiterate what I said before, that the guarantees in the agreement that is being discussed in Brussels are not sufficient and therefore Spain still maintains its veto.'

Mrs May was savaged by MPs from all sides in a brutal Commons session yesterday, leading one Tory ally to remark privately that getting her plan through looked like 'mission impossible'.

Unless large numbers of MPs switch sides there are fears she could be defeated by well over a hundred votes when the crunch comes in the House next month.

A loss of that magnitude would likely leave No10's fallback option of making MPs vote again in tatters.

Mrs May used her interview today to appeal for MPs to look beyond the Westminster bubble and focus on 'people's jobs'.

'In Parliament there's a lot of focus on who's going to vote for the deal or not, and outside I think people are thinking 'Actually, let's make sure we can get this through and get on with delivering',' she said.

'My job is to persuade people. I believe this is the right deal for the UK. My job is to persuade people in Parliament of that view.

'And I think the job of an MP is actually, when they come to look at voting for this deal, to say to themselves 'Does it deliver on what people voted for?' - I believe it does - and secondly, 'What do we need to focus on for our constituents, for people up and down the country?'

'I believe people's jobs, people's futures, the future for their children should be at the forefront of MPs' minds.'

'I believe that if we were to go back to the European Union and say 'People didn't like that deal can we have another one?' I don't think they are going to come to us and say 'We will give you a better deal.'

Mrs May insisted that as far as she was concerned the UK will leave the EU in March 2019 as planned.

'Personally there is no question of no Brexit because the Government needs to deliver on what people voted for in the referendum in 2016,' she said.

'As far as I am concerned the UK is leaving the European Union on March 29 2019.'

Asked whether the UK would be better-off under her deal than it would be if it stayed in the EU, Mrs May said: 'I think we will be better-off in a situation which we will have outside the European Union, where we have control of all those things and are able to trade around the rest of the world.

'I was one of those people who said that it wasn't going to be the case that, outside the European Union, we were going to have the sort of problems that some other people said we would.

Former Brexit secretary Dominic Raab (pictured in the Commons yesterday) heaped pressure on the PM as she faces 'mission impossible' to get the package through Parliament

Tory former minister Phillip Lee (top) and Labour's Pat McFadden seized on the comments by Mr Raab about the attractions of Mrs May's deal

'But it's different. You say 'better-off'. Actually it's a different sort of environment and a different approach we will be taking to things.

'What will make us better-off is not so much about whether we are in the EU or not, it's about what we can do for our economy, it's about what we can do for our prosperity.'

PM reveals she was sent cupcake by girl to 'make her smile' Nine-year-old Gabby Balaes sent the PM a cupcake with her face on it The PM today revealed she was sent a cupcake by a nine-year-old girl who wanted to cheer her up over Brexit. Mrs May said she had received messages of support from members of the public - including a young girl who made her a cake. She told the BBC: 'I've had a huge number of messages - really kind messages - from people up and down the country, who have sent me flowers. 'One nine-year-old, Gabby Balaes, actually baked a cupcake with my face on it. 'There was a message. It said that her dad had said I'd had a tough week and she wanted to make me smile.' She said she was 'sorry' and 'disappointed' that some members of her Cabinet had resigned over her Brexit stance, adding: 'Obviously, they have got strong feelings about this issue, they had campaigned to leave the EU and they had done good work in the Cabinet.' Asked if she might sometimes 'go home and swear' about colleagues walking out, she replied: 'No, it's up to people's choice.'

Mrs May's comment came after a caller named Michael said he was not satisfied by her first response to his question, when she said: 'It will be a different world for us outside the EU, but it will be a good one... I genuinely believe there is a bright future for this country and our best days lie ahead of us.'

Mrs May told a caller named Nigel, from Tamworth, that she would be sending a Christmas card to David Cameron, who initially called the EU referendum. Asked whether she would also send one to Mr Rees-Mogg, she replied: 'All my Conservative colleagues I send Christmas cards to.'

Mr Raab - who plunged Mrs May into chaos by resigning over the deal last week - waded back in today, saying that the premier need to start thinking about alternatives.

Asked if the PM's deal was worse than remaining in the EU, Mr Raab told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: 'I'm not going to advocate staying in the EU.

'But, if you just presented me terms, this deal or EU membership, because we would effectively be bound by the same rules but without the control or voice over them, yes, I think this would be even worse than that.'

The last part of the Brexit deal - sketching out future trade terms after a mooted transition period ends in December 2020 - was dramatically signed off by negotiating teams yesterday.

During furious Commons clashes, the Prime Minister hailed the outcome.

'This is a good deal for our country, for our partners in the EU,' she told MPs. 'It ends free movement once and for all.'

She said a new immigration system would give people access based on 'what they can contribute to the UK', there would be no more 'sending vast sums of money to the EU', and the jurisdiction of the European court will end.

But Eurosceptics condemned the package as a 'costly surrender' and a 'betrayal of Brexit'. Boris Johnson said the inclusion of an Irish border backstop that would lash the UK to EU rules 'makes a complete nonsense of Brexit'.

Former Cabinet ministers Iain Duncan Smith and Owen Paterson, and DUP chief whip Jeffrey Donaldson also insisted the backstop must be scrapped altogether, warning: 'None of this is going to work.'

There was also anger that the issue of access to UK fishing waters appears to have been kicked back to be decided after March.

Remainers accused her of putting the country on course for 'blind Brexit' with vague commitments.

Some 88 Tory MPs have now publicly confirmed they will oppose the Brexit deal in a so-called 'meaningful vote' next month.

Once the 'payroll' of ministers is taken into account, that is over half the party's numbers in the Commons.

With the DUP, Labour, the SNP and Lib Dems also opposed, the prospects for the PM look bleak.

Downing Street is pinning hopes for success on MPs looking at the alternatives of chaos of Brexit being cancelled altogether, and swinging behind Mrs May at the last moment.

However, attention at Westminster has been turning to what happens if she lose the vote - with speculation Mrs May could try again in the New Year.

Allies fear that unless the result is relatively tight she could be so badly damaged she will have to quit. Barring large numbers of MPs changing their minds, the government appears to be on track for humiliating loss by well over a hundred votes.

Boris Johnson said the inclusion of an Irish border backstop that would lash the UK to EU rules 'makes a complete nonsense of Brexit'.

Spanish PM Pedro Sanchez (pictured with Mrs May in Brussels last month) said the two sides were still 'far apart'. Madrid wants Gibraltar excluded from a future trade pact, with its treatment decided bilaterally with the UK.

Education Secretary Damian Hinds was sent out to steady the ship today, insisting support for the deal would grow in Parliament.

'The deal that we have on the table is a strong deal. It is a good, balanced deal. As people reflect on what the alternatives are, I think people are going to come to see this is a very good deal for Britain,' he said.

'If we weren't to pass this deal, I think it becomes rather unpredictable what happens next. There is a risk on the one hand beyond that of no Brexit at all - and there are people trying to thwart Brexit - and there is also a risk of no deal.

'Neither of those two things are attractive. This is why I believe this deal, which is a strong deal, will gain more and more traction.'

In concessions designed to help Mrs May get the deal through Parliament, the 26-page future framework document - which is not legally binding - makes clear that Britain will have an 'independent trade policy'.

And it stresses both sides' 'determination to replace the backstop' for the Irish border with alternative plans in future - potentially reviving the 'Max Fac' technological solution favoured by Brexiteers.

The pact confirms that free movement will end, which was claimed as a win for the PM - but also states that the UK will not discriminate between nationals from different EU countries.

There would be visa free travel for all citizens making short trips, which will be a relief for holidaymakers.

====== 1894 ========

DUP LEADER ARLENE FOSTER BLASTS MAY'S BREXIT DEAL AS 'WORSE THAN A CORBYN GOVERNMENT'

Arlene Foster has said that Theresa May’s Brexit deal is a worse outcome for Britain than a government led by Jeremy Corbyn.

Mrs Foster dismissed claims that the DUP is merely playing a game of brinkmanship and would cave in and support Mrs May if the alternative was a general election and a possible Labour government.

Asked if Mrs May’s Brexit is a greater threat than a government led by Jeremy Corbyn, Mrs Foster told the Times: ‘I think it is, and the reason I say that is on day one of us leaving the European Union there would be no difference, we would be exactly the same as the rest of the UK but in year five or ten we would be different.

DUP leader Arlene Foster has criticised Theresa May’s Brexit deal, mounting even more pressure on the Prime Minister

‘If people [in Northern Ireland] are looking to Dublin for representation in Europe because we’re the subject of EU rules, that is so dangerous in terms of the Union.

‘All the things we build the Union on — the economic unit, the cultural, social, political and historical - start to diverge.’

Theresa May is facing an 'impossible' battle to convince enough MPs to back her deal next month.

Mrs Foster's comments came as former Brexit secretary Dominic Raab piled pressure on the Prime Minister, claiming that her proposed deal was worse than remaining in the European Union.

Brexiteer Mr Raab resigned from Mrs May's cabinet last week, plunging the Government into crisis.

Mrs Foster said Mrs May's deal was a worse outcome for Britain than a government led by Jeremy Corbyn

Brexiteer Dominic Raab resigned from Mrs May's cabinet last week in protest over the deal

Appearing on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, when asked what he would choose between the Prime Minister's deal and remaining in the Union, Mr Raab said: 'Well, I’m not going to advocate staying in the EU but if you just presented me terms, this deal or EU membership – we’d effectively be bound by the same rules without a control or voice over them – yes, I think this would be even worse than that.'

More than half of Conservative Party backbenchers have publicly said they will vote against the deal in a looming Commons showdown next month.

Unless large numbers of MPs change sides, the Prime Minister's deal could be defeated by well over a hundred votes when the crunch comes in the House.

Mrs May has insisted that as far as she was concerned the UK will leave the EU in March 2019 as planned.

'Personally there is no question of no Brexit because the Government needs to deliver on what people voted for in the referendum in 2016,' she said.

'As far as I am concerned the UK is leaving the European Union on March 29, 2019.'

====== 1895 ========

THERESA MAY 'TO ANNOUNCE CURBS ON LOW-SKILLED MIGRANTS' IN BID TO GET BREXITEER BACKING

Theresa May is set to announce limits on low-skilled immigration to Britain in a bid to get her Brexit deal through the Commons, it was claimed last night.

According to leaked Cabinet papers, the Home Office has drawn up plans to issue low-skilled migrants with 11-month visas.

The new visas would reportedly offer 'restricted entitlements and rights' while they are living in the UK, the Telegraph reported.

The Government will abolish the cap on highly skilled 'tier 2' migrants entirely, the report said, with the plans set out in the week beginning December 3.

Theresa May (pictured) is set to announce limits on low-skilled immigration to Britain in a bid to get her Brexit deal through the Commons, it was claimed last night

That would be a week before the crunch vote on the Brexit agreement is expected in the Commons.

Immigration was a key theme in the referendum with Leave campaigners promising to end free movement between EU countries and Britain.

More than 80 Conservative MPs - from both the Leave and Remain sides - are threatening to vote against the agreement.

And if it did pass the Commons, the repercussions could bring down Mrs May's Government, with the DUP hinting at withdrawing the support of its MPs.

The DUP's 10 MPs have proved reluctant to vote with the Government since the terms of the Brexit deal became known and the termination of their Westminster arrangement would be a major blow to the Prime Minister.

Meanwhile Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez has threatened to 'veto' progress without further guarantees for Madrid over the status of Gibraltar.

The DUP's 10 MPs have proved reluctant to vote with the Government on the Brexit deal. Pictured: DUP leader Arlene Foster with Chancellor Philip Hammond

The tensions over Gibraltar concern Spain's demand that Gibraltar's future is considered a bilateral issue between London and Madrid rather than between the EU and UK.

Mr Sanchez has suggested that Sunday's summit could be scrapped unless there is a breakthrough.

Mrs May has insisted her deal is in the interests of "the whole UK family" including Gibraltar.

Despite the turmoil, the Prime Minister again insisted that as far as she was concerned, Brexit would go ahead next year as planned.

'Personally, there is no question of no Brexit, because the Government needs to deliver on what people voted for in the referendum in 2016,' she said.

'As far as I am concerned, the UK is leaving the European Union on March 29 2019.'

====== 1896 ========

HOW THERESA MAY CAN PULL A HOUDINI AND SURVIVE THE NEXT FEW WEEKS, WRITES PETER OBORNE

One of the endless fascinations of politics is how two contradictory situations can exist at the same time.

A classic example currently concerns Theresa May. On the one hand, she is due in Brussels today to triumphantly sign off her Brexit deal with the 27 other EU nation leaders. But back home, there is febrile talk of her being out of Downing Street before Christmas.

It is no exaggeration to say that Britain faces its greatest political crisis since World War II. Unless Mrs May can carry off her Brexit deal, there is a strong likelihood that we will have a new prime minister by January.

But first, here’s some rare good news for the embattled premier.

Despite opportunistic Spanish threats of a veto, most people are convinced that Mrs May will sign off her deal with the EU 27 this weekend.

Theresa May seems to have fought off a rebellion from backbench Tory MPs

Theresa May gives a statement outside Downing Street following news a deal with the EU had been reached

Getting it through the House of Commons, however, will be a very different matter.

The vote is scheduled to take place in less than three weeks’ time. Gulp!

At least 80 Tory MPs are openly hostile and could vote against the deal. So too could Ulster’s Democratic Unionist Party MPs, who are supposedly in alliance with the Government to provide the Tories with a Commons majority.

In other words, the arithmetic looks dire. It seems almost certain that MPs will snub Mrs May, and her Brexit package will crash and burn.

What happens then?

Anyone who thinks they know is a fool. However, it is possible to set out some of the possible scenarios.

First, assuming that Mrs May loses the vote, she could risk all by resigning her government.

This would mean the Queen would ask Jeremy Corbyn, as leader of the Opposition, to try to form a government himself. If he failed to command a Commons majority — the most likely outcome — a General Election would have to be held.

True, Mrs May has rejected the idea of a third General Election in as many years — undoubtedly a wise move after her miscal-culation of going to country in June last year.

Alternatively, Mrs May could simply resign as Tory leader — and hang on forlornly as a lame duck Prime Minister while her party elects a replacement.

Contemptuously, hardline Brexiteers claim it doesn’t matter either way whether Mrs May stays or goes. They say that if she loses next month’s Commons vote, then Britain would automatically leave the EU regardless, and without a deal, on March 29 next year.

The Prime Minister is not out of jail yet as she still needs to get the deal through parliament

Remainer MPs disagree. Optimistically, they believe that MPs from all the main parties will come together to prevent a no-deal exit from the EU.

Under this scenario, it would mean Downing Street — whether Mrs May is Prime Minister or not — losing control of events.

A swaggeringly self-confident Parliament would take over decision-making.

It is important to note that more than 70 per cent of MPs are believed to have voted Remain in the EU referendum and that, crucially, the Commons has a fervently pro-EU Speaker in the shape of John Bercow.

Jacob Rees-Mogg has made his thoughts on Theresa May's Brexit plan clear after he handed in a letter of no confidence in the Prime Minister

Make no mistake: Bercow will try to manipulate events in a pro-European direction.

Meanwhile, as Westminster descended into chaos, it would be only a matter of time before political uncertainly translated into financial and economic chaos.

There would be a huge risk of a recession with the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs.

It should not be forgotten that while MPs are playing their political games, the livelihoods of the British people are at risk.

This sobering thought leads me to believe that Mrs May’s position is much stronger than it looks.

Most decent folk think she is doing her best in desperately difficult circumstances. They feel disgust at what they see — rightly or wrongly — as cynical manoeuvring by devious and calculating politicians only interested in furthering their own Westminster careers.

That is why Mrs May was surely right this week to appeal over the heads of Parliament to the British people in a series of TV appearances and radio interviews.

Thus far, this strategy is working, with polls showing that the PM is much more popular than any rivals for her job.

The fact is that Houdini May has survived numerous desperate scrapes.

Repeatedly, her enemies and even some colleagues have plotted to destroy her. Ill-informed commentators have forecast her downfall. Yet each time she’s survived.

Up until now, I have been one of the few to predict her survival. But now, I can’t confidently forecast that Mrs May and her deal will make it through the next few tempestuous weeks.

But, as a betting man, I do still believe she’s favourite to make it.

Of course, her EU exit deal isn’t perfect. But it’s the best available. No one has yet come up with a better idea — at any rate not one which would work.

Meanwhile, her allies are making it clear to hardcore Brexiteers, on one side, that the alternative to her strategy is Britain remaining in the EU.

On the other hand, to Europhiles, they claim the alternative is a no-deal Brexit and all the perils that would entail.

This is a clever two-pronged weapon and so far it’s worked.

What’s more, Mrs May has successfully employed a tactic of which, quite frankly, I had not considered her capable.

She’s split the Brexiteers.

There have been Cabinet resignations — by Boris Johnson, David Davis, Dominic Raab and Esther McVey — but their erstwhile Brexiteer colleagues including Andrea Leadsom, Michael Gove and Penny Mordaunt have stayed onboard.

Boris Johnson is one of the most high profile Cabinet ministers to have resigned over Brexit

The repercussions of what happens over the coming weeks are much more significant for Britain than those after the Suez Crisis of 1956, when prime minister Anthony Eden resigned. They are much, much more crucial.

At heart, the Suez Crisis was about Britain coming to terms with the loss of empire.

Brexit is about how we survive as an independent nation in a hostile world outside a powerful bloc of European countries.

The poet Hilaire Belloc warned a century ago in his Cautionary Verses For Children: ‘Always keep a-hold of nurse — For fear of finding something worse!’

As Theresa May leads us out of the EU, his advice is more vital than ever.

Tory blunder on our precious voting system

The Electoral Commission is an independent body whose duty it is to ‘oversee elections and regulate political finance’.

In view of this responsibility, it worries me that Tory peer Lord Gilbert has been appointed a board member.

In the past, I have highlighted Stephen Gilbert’s controversial role as a Tory party campaign chief at a time when disturbing evidence came to light that the Tories had disregarded electoral law by overspending, during a series of by-elections in 2014 when they feared losing to Ukip. Following a brilliant investigation by Channel 4’s Michael Crick, there were even fears that officials compounded the offence by submitting at the very least misleading election returns to returning officers — a criminal offence punishable by jail.

I repeatedly tried to approach Lord Gilbert for an explanation of apparent discrepancies in Tory spending. He never came back to me. Eventually, there were no criminal charges and I am sure Lord Gilbert’s actions were totally above board.

Earlier this year, the Commission itself was heavily criticised after some senior members voiced opposition to Brexit.

There was concern that commissioners had infringed the body’s code of conduct, which requires them to act ‘at all times’ to ‘uphold its impartiality’.

With this latest development, putting Lord Gilbert forward to work at the Commission, the Tory Party has sent out a most unfortunate message about its respect for a deeply sensitive role which goes right to the heart of the integrity of the British political process.

One minister keeps gallantly riding to the support of Mrs May.

Prisons minister Rory Stewart has been ever-present in TV studios, explaining with characteristic courtesy the benefits of the PM’s deal with Brussels.

Mr Stewart is the opposite of those identikit politicians with scant knowledge of life outside Westminster. A former officer in the Black Watch, he walked across Afghanistan after the Taliban government collapsed.

He is due promotion to the Cabinet.

====== 1897 ========

THIS BREXIT DEAL ISN'T PERFECT BUT WE WILL TAKE CONTROL OF OUR BORDERS, WRITES JEREMY HUNT

Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt believes the Brexit draft 'stands in the best traditions of British pragmatism and ambition'

One of Britain’s greatest strengths is our instinct for practical politics. Instead of pursuing visions of perfection, we value what works.

Extracting ourselves from the European Union while maintaining our friendship with its members amounts to one of the most complicated tasks imaginable.

I believe that the Declaration on our future relationship with the EU, agreed by the Government and the European Commission this week, stands in the best traditions of British pragmatism and ambition.

We have not got everything we wanted and nor have they: Countless hours of painstaking negotiation have inevitably produced compromises on both sides.

Yet if anyone still questions the resolve of this Government or this Prime Minister to honour the result of the Brexit referendum, then the Declaration should lay those doubts to rest.

In the words of paragraph 4, our new relationship with the EU after Brexit will be based on ‘respecting the result of the 2016 referendum’ and the ‘sovereignty of the United Kingdom’. The British people voted to take back control of our borders, laws and money – and this Declaration fulfils those instructions, while also striking the balance that will protect jobs and the integrity of our United Kingdom.

The automatic right of any EU citizen to live and work in the UK will come to an end. We will be able to admit people with the skills to contribute to our economy, regardless of their national background.

There is no need to worry about holidays or routine trips. The Declaration preserves visa-free travel across the EU for short-term visits. And the rights of EU citizens living in the UK and of Britons residing in the EU are fully protected.

The Declaration will end the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice in the UK. Our laws will be made in our Parliament and interpreted by our courts. Britain will stop making vast annual payments to the EU, allowing us to exercise full control over public-spending priorities. This Government’s priority back home is the NHS. By 2023, we will be investing an extra £394million in the NHS every week. Having campaigned hard for this money, now we must ensure it is delivered.

We have agreed to create a free-trade area with the EU without tariffs, quotas or charges, and Britain will regain the ability to seek free-trade deals around the world, a power we have not had since we joined the Common Market in 1973. The Declaration recognises how the UK will now develop an ‘independent trade policy’.

In a BBC phone in today, Mrs May warned that EU is not 'going to give us a better deal' if MPs vote down her settlement

It also makes clear that in foreign policy and security, we will continue to ‘combine efforts’ with the EU. But the reason why the course set by the Prime Minister is the best one for Britain does not just depend on the precise wording of the Declaration. It depends on our national duty, at this crucial moment, to keep our eyes on the main prize.

Just over two years ago, 17.4million people voted to leave the EU, more than for any other cause or party in British history.

If Parliament were to reject the Declaration and the proposed Withdrawal Agreement, this would open the door for those who wish to derail Brexit and overturn the result of the referendum.

The Prime Minister today mounted another staunch defence of the settlement she has thrashed out with Brussels, saying it is the 'right' one for the country

Already we hear demands for the British people to be made to rerun the debate and vote again. Meanwhile, Jeremy Corbyn’s Labour just play politics – standing both for and against a second referendum, saying one thing to Leave voters and quite another to Remainers.

As it happens, I voted to stay in the EU, but I respect the outcome and I believe in the democratic imperative of honouring the decision of the British people.

Today, the choice is not between this Declaration and a perfect agreement. The real choice is between the terms secured by the Prime Minister in the national interest or the danger of going back to square one and Brexit not happening at all. This would deal a profoundly damaging blow to British democracy.

Now that the crucial hour is upon us, the country should get behind her.

====== 1898 ========

IS MAY'S DEAL ALREADY SUNK? EIGHTY NINE TORY MPS HAVE ALREADY COME OUT AGAINST IT

Theresa May has secured her deal in Brussels but her fight to get it actually in place in time for Brexit day is just beginning.

The 'meaningful vote' promised to MPs is expected to happen in early December and is the single biggest hurdle to the Brexit deal happening - and Mrs May' fate as PM.

Mrs May needs at least 318 votes in the Commons if all 650 MPs turns up - but can probably only be confident of around 230 votes.

The number is less than half because the four Speakers, 7 Sinn Fein MPs and four tellers will not take part.

The situation looks grim for Mrs May and her whips: now the deal has been published, 89 of her own MPs and the 10 DUP MPs have publicly stated they will join the Opposition parties in voting No.

This means the PM could have as few as 225 votes in her corner - leaving 410 votes on the other side, a landslide majority 185.

This is how the House of Commons might break down:

Mrs May needs at least 318 votes in the Commons if all 650 MPs turns up - but can probably only be confident of around 230 votes.

Mrs May needs at least 318 votes in the Commons if all 650 MPs turns up - but can probably only be confident of around 230 votes.

Theresa May has secured her deal in Brussels but her fight to get it actually in place in time for Brexit day is just beginning

The Government (plus various hangers-on)

Who are they: All members of the Government are the so-called 'payroll' vote and are obliged to follow the whips orders or resign. It includes the Cabinet, all junior ministers, the whips and unpaid parliamentary aides.

There are also a dozen Tory party 'vice-chairs and 17 MPs appointed by the PM to be 'trade envoys'.

How many of them are there? 178.

What do they want? For the Prime Minister to survive, get her deal and reach exit day with the minimum of fuss.

Many junior ministers want promotion while many of the Cabinet want to be in a position to take the top job when Mrs May goes.

How will they vote? With the Prime Minister.

European Research Group Brexiteers demanding a No Confidence Vote

Who are they: The most hardline of the Brexiteers, they launched a coup against Mrs May after seeing the divorce. Led by Jacob Rees-Mogg and Steve Baker.

How many of them are there: 26

What do they want: The removal of Mrs May and a 'proper Brexit'. Probably no deal now, with hopes for a Canada-style deal later.

How will they vote: Against the Prime Minister.

The most hardline of the Brexiteers, they launched a coup against Mrs May after seeing the divorce. Led by Jacob Rees-Mogg and Steve Baker

Other Brexiteers in the ERG

Who are they: There is a large block of Brexiteer Tory MPs who hate the deal but have so far stopped short of moving to remove Mrs May - believing that can destroy the deal instead. They include ex Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith and ex minister Owen Paterson.

Ex ministers like Boris Johnson and David Davis are also in this group - they probably want to replace Mrs May but have not publicly moved against her.

How many of them are there? Around 50.

What do they want? The ERG has said Mrs May should abandon her plans for a unique trade deal and instead negotiate a 'Canada plus plus plus' deal.

This is based on a trade deal signed between the EU and Canada in August 2014 that eliminated 98 per cent of tariffs and taxes charged on goods shipped across the Atlantic.

The EU has long said it would be happy to do a deal based on Canada - but warn it would only work for Great Britain and not Northern Ireland.

How will they vote: Against the Prime Minister.

Remain including the People's Vote supporters

Who are they: Tory MPs who believe the deal is just not good enough for Britain. They include the group of unrepentant Remainers who want a new referendum like Anna Soubry and ex-ministers who quit over the deal including Jo Johnson and Phillip Lee.

How many of them are there: Maybe around 10.

What do they want? To stop Brexit. Some want a new referendum, some think Parliament should step up and say no.

A new referendum would take about six months from start to finish and they group wants Remain as an option on the ballot paper, probably with Mrs May's deal as the alternative.

How will they vote? Against the Prime Minister.

Anna Soubry is in a small group of unrepentant Remainer Tory MPs who want a second referendum on Brexit

Moderates in the Brexit Delivery Group (BDG) and other Loyalists

Who are they? A newer group, the BDG counts members from across the Brexit divide inside the Tory Party. It includes former minister Nick Boles and MPs including Remainer Simon Hart and Brexiteer Andrew Percy.

There are also lots of unaligned Tory MPs who are desperate to talk about anything else.

How many of them are there? Based on public declarations, about 48 MPs have either said nothing or backed the deal.

What do they want? The BDG prioritises delivering on Brexit and getting to exit day on March 29, 2019, without destroying the Tory Party or the Government. If the PM gets a deal the group will probably vote for it.

It is less interested in the exact form of the deal but many in it have said Mrs May's Chequers plan will not work.

Mr Boles has set out a proposal for Britain to stay in the European Economic Area (EEA) until a free trade deal be negotiated - effectively to leave the EU but stay in close orbit as a member of the single market.

How will they vote? With the Prime Minister.

Tory Simon Hart leads a group of Tory MPs committed to getting a pragmatic Brexit deal without pandering to ideological interests

The DUP

Who are they? The Northern Ireland Party signed up to a 'confidence and supply' agreement with the Conservative Party to prop up the Government.

They are Unionist and say Brexit is good but must not carve Northern Ireland out of the Union.

How many of them are there? 10.

What do they want? A Brexit deal that protects Northern Ireland inside the UK.

How will they vote? Against the Prime Minister on the grounds they believe the deal breaches the red line of a border in the Irish Sea.

The DUP, led in Westminster by Nigel Dodds (right), have a deal with Theresa May but could still vote agianst her Brexit deal

Labour Loyalists

Who are they? Labour MPs who are loyal to Jeremy Corbyn and willing to follow his whipping orders.

How many of them are there? Up to 250 MPs depending on exactly what Mr Corbyn orders them to do.

What do they want? Labour policy is to demand a general election and if the Government refuses, 'all options are on the table', including a second referendum.

Labour insists it wants a 'jobs first Brexit' that includes a permanent customs union with the EU. It says it is ready to restart negotiations with the EU with a short extension to the Article 50 process.

The party says Mrs May's deal fails its six tests for being acceptable.

How will they vote? Against the Prime Minister's current deal.

Labour MPs who are loyal to Jeremy Corbyn and willing to follow his whipping orders are expected to vote against the Prime Minister

Labour Rebels

Who are they? A mix of MPs totally opposed to Mr Corbyn's leadership, some Labour Leave supporters who want a deal and some MPs who think any deal will do at this point.

How many of them are there? Maybe 10 to 20 MPs but this group is diminishing fast - at least for the first vote on the deal.

What do they want? An orderly Brexit and to spite Mr Corbyn.

How will they vote? With the Prime Minister.

Other Opposition parties

Who are they? The SNP, Liberal Democrats, Plaid Cymru, Green Caroline Lucas and assorted independents.

How many of them are there? About 60 MPs.

How will they vote? Mostly against the Prime Minister - though two of the independents are suspended Tories and two are Brexiteer former Labour MPs.

The SNP led by Ian Blackford, Liberal Democrats, Plaid Cymru, Green Caroline Lucas and assorted independents will almost all vote against Theresa May

Which Tory MPs have already said they will vote against the deal? LETTER OF NO CONFIDENCE GROUP John Whittingdale Mark Francois David Jones Jacob Rees-Mogg Steve Baker Andrea Jenkyns James Duddridge Ben Bradley Marcus Fysh Maria Caulfield Simon Clarke Ross Thomson Henry Smith Nadine Dorries Chris Green Andrew Bridgen Sheryll Murray Bill Cash Lee Rowley Peter Bone Martin Vickers Philip Davies Anne-Marie Morris Adam Holloway Zac Goldsmith Philip Hollobone Laurence Robertson OTHER BREXITEERS Boris Johnson David Davis Iain Duncan Smith Owen Paterson Priti Patel Sir Desmond Swayne Julian Lewis Sir Bernard Jenkin Sir Mike Penning Sir David Amess Sir Edward Leigh Sir Christopher Chope John Redwood Anne Main Craig Mackinlay Charlie Elphicke Richard Bacon Conor Burns Trudy Harrison Andrew Lewer Nigel Mills Ranil Jayawardena Suella Braverman Anne-Marie Trevelyan Andrew Rosindell James Gray Crispin Blunt Richard Drax Bill Wiggin Pauline Latham Nigel Evans Scott Mann Tim Loughton Robert Courts Michael Fabricant Michael Tomlinson Damian Collins Dominic Raab Esther McVey Rehman Chishti Hugo Swire Neil Parish Steve Double Theresa Villiers Royston Smith Mark Pritchard Damien Moore Daniel Kawczynski Lucy Allan David Evennett Rob Halfon Bob Stewart Gordon Henderson Stephen Metcalfe REMAINERS Jo Johnson Phillip Lee Heidi Allen Justine Greening Dominic Grieve Shailesh Vara Grant Shapps Anna Soubry

====== 1899 ========

GROUNDBREAKING STUDIES INTO BABY BRAINS HAVE REVEALED THE KEY TO TACKLING THE WORST TODDLER TANTRUMS

Baby Arthur is just a week old, and in that woozy, newborn state where all he knows is sleeping and eating, with some crying thrown in too. He can see, but he’s too young to recognise human faces, or even differentiate whether he’s looking at a person or a teddy bear. Or is he?

Today, Arthur is sporting extraordinary headwear. His futuristic ‘hat’ is connected to a portable brain scanner.

A ground-breaking experiment is underway – this is the first time it’s been attempted in the UK, on a baby this young. As Arthur coos in his mother’s arms, his brain activity is monitored.

It was believed babies didn’t recognise human faces in the very early stages of life. Research in the US has recently challenged this.

And, as images are held up to Arthur’s face on an iPad, a remarkable thing happens. On the computer screen in front of her, neurologist Dr Sarah Lloyd Fox observes what happens in various parts of Arthur’s brain.

BBC2's Babies: Their Wonderful World is a four-part series that re-creates scientific experiments used around the world to assess baby development. Pictured: Dr Huddi Singh with some of the babies

Some 2,500 babies took part. Angeline, two, took a test to see how much self-control babies have which involved wearing a brain scanning cap. A light-up toy was placed on the table in front of her, but her parents told her not to touch it, then turn their backs

When he’s shown images of toys, the waves change little. When a human face is put in front of him, that part of his brain (the posterior superior temporal sulcus) goes into overdrive. Bingo!

‘It’s remarkable,’ says paediatrician and presenter Dr Guddi Singh, who’s been watching the experiment. ‘It suggests babies come into this world primed to respond to faces. We didn’t know this before, because the technology didn’t exist five years ago.’

Some 2,500 babies, and their curious parents, were recruited for BBC2’s Babies: Their Wonderful World, a four-part series that re-creates scientific experiments used around the world to assess baby development.

Scientists know fundamental parts of who we are – from personality to physical ability and intelligence – are shaped by vital early years. This series is ‘the biggest ever attempted on the subject’, says Dr Singh.

‘The scale is huge. By studying them with all the technology now available, we learn an astonishing amount.’

What of the old TV adage of never working with children or animals? She admits it does get hairy. ‘Once I was doing a piece to camera, and a baby vomited all over me.’

The results, though, are tantalising for scientists (assessing normal development is the first step in tackling issues like autism or speech delay), and fascinating for any parent. Abigail, two, and others, take part in a test to assess when babies become able to recall information for themselves.

She is shown a toy rabbit called Lucy, then taken to another room and told the rabbit has become wet. She’s taken back into the room where there are now two rabbits – one wet, one dry – and asked to point out Lucy. The researchers are impressed with the results.

Abigail, two, and others, took part in a test to assess when babies become able to recall information for themselves. She is shown a toy rabbit called Lucy, then taken to another room and told the rabbit has become wet. She’s taken back into the room where there are now two rabbits – one wet, one dry – and asked to point out Lucy

Meanwhile Angeline, also two, takes a test to see how much self-control babies have. A light-up toy is placed on the table in front of her, but her parents tell her not to touch it, then turn their backs. Will she obey? Brain-scanning caps and cameras monitor every movement, word – and tantrum – that goes on.

Talking of tantrums, ever wondered what happens to your toddler when they have one? Heart rate monitors and motion sensors are attached to Blake, 18 months, allowing scientists to see what happens as she plays.

Then a game is introduced to engineer a tantrum. Chocolate buttons are put in Perspex drawers in a box, some fiendishly hard to access.

Within minutes, a meltdown ensues. Her mother tries to calm her but hugs are ineffective. Then a toy dog is introduced – a distraction. Blake’s heart rate drops and calm is restored.

The experiments keep on coming. One assesses if temperament is ‘fixed’ at four months. Five babies are monitored as they watch a jack-in-the-box pop open. One is excited; one terrified. It appears timidity isn’t learned – it’s there from the off.

Using electronic devices also gave interesting results, says Dr Singh. ‘Some research says iPads are harmful to young children, but they’re beneficial in developing motor skills too.’

One to watch for the future is 19-month-old Emilia. Her parents told researchers she was a keen footballer.

When her movement is analysed, it shows 25 bursts of football-type activity during the day. Are we looking at a future England player? There’s ample footage to prove her early promise.

Babies: Their Wonderful World, Monday, 9pm, BBC2.

====== 1900 ========

KGB SUPERSPY WAS 'TURNED' TO BECOME MI6'S BEST COLD WAR AGENT

One of the must-reads of 2018 is best-selling author Ben Macintyre’s gripping account of how Oleg Gordievsky, a senior KGB officer, switched his loyalty from Moscow to the West and took on the dangerous role of a double agent — the most successful of all in recent times.

In its cliff-hanging drama and intrigue, it has all the hallmarks of a le Carre thriller — but with the added twist that the events it describes were not fiction. Gordievsky really is the spy who came in from the cold. In this first extract from The Spy And The Traitor, MI6 uses all its cunning to lure him into its net, then foolishly nearly lets him slip away…

The temperature was minus six and, despite his tweed suit and heavy overcoat, Richard Bromhead, dapper head of the MI6 spy station in Copenhagen, was ‘absolutely bloody freezing’. It was 7am, snow had fallen overnight and, as he shivered, the irony was not lost on him that his target, a Soviet KGB major, was code-named ‘Sunbeam’.

Oleg Gordievsky in KGB uniform. His official position was Second Secretary in the Soviet embassy but he was, in reality, a KGB spy

For three mornings, Bromhead — an old-fashioned Englishman, a cheerful, back-slapping cove who divided people into ‘complete darlings’ and ‘prize sh*ts’ — had sat in a tiny, unheated car outside a sports club.

Surveillance by the Danish security service had established that a particular Russian ‘diplomat’, Oleg Gordievsky, played badminton there every morning with a young woman named Anna, a member of the Danish Young Communists.

Gordievsky’s official position was Second Secretary in the Soviet embassy but he was, in reality, a KGB spy. In a classic ‘dangle’ operation, Bromhead was trying to flush him out as a potential double agent and get him to change sides.

He knew from long experience that recruiting a rival intelligence officer required a complicated pas de deux. Too obvious an approach would scare the target away, but too subtle a signal would be missed.

On the first two mornings he watched Oleg and Anna come out, shake hands and go to their respective cars. So on this, the third morning, he was not going to hang about getting cold. He walked into the club to find them.

Gordievsky was between serves when the British spy came into view. He immediately recognised Bromhead — the two had run into each other at diplomatic parties — and gave a friendly smile.

The Russian did not seem surprised, Bromhead noted. ‘Was he expecting me?’

Gordievsky calmly went on with his game, but his mind was whirling. Was everything slotting into place?

The genial British diplomat — whom the KGB had identified as an intelligence officer — seemed to have been at every social event recently, and his appearance now in the deserted badminton court could mean only one thing: MI6 was trying to recruit him.

And, if such an approach was coming, then Gordievsky knew he was ripe for turning.

Gordievsky, a keen badminton player, switched his loyalty from Moscow to the West and took on the dangerous role of a double agent

He was KGB born and bred: his father and older brother had been in the service and he himself was recruited from university to join its Red Banner elite training academy. His wife, Yelena, a translator, was KGB too.

In the Soviet Union, being in the KGB was an honour and a duty to anyone with talent and ambition. And those who joined did so for life. ‘There is no such thing as a former KGB man,’ the one-time KGB officer Vladimir Putin once said. This was an exclusive club to join, and an impossible one to leave.

But Gordievsky’s first tour of duty to the West as an agent in 1966 was an eye-opener and a game-changer. The Copenhagen he arrived in was almost impossibly alluring to someone used to the drab oppression of Soviet life.

Here were sleek cars, designer furniture, teeming cafés, bright restaurants, shops selling a bewildering array of goods. And, unlike Moscow, very few policemen.

He was smitten by Denmark, its people, parks and classical music, and the liberty, including sexual freedom, that its citizens took for granted.

‘I blossomed as a human being,’ he wrote. ‘There was so much beauty, such openness and cheeriness that I could only look back on the vast, sterile concentration camp of the Soviet Union as a form of hell.’ His alienation from the communist system turned to a burning, passionate hatred when he saw the TV pictures of Soviet tanks rolling into Czechoslovakia in 1968 to crush the outbreak of optimism and democracy known as the Prague Spring.

From a phone inside the embassy in Copenhagen, he rang his wife to express his anger at ‘this brutal attack on innocent people’.

With that call, it was not just to her that he was sending a message. He knew the phone was bugged by Danish intelligence. Surely they would pick up that he was not the unquestioning cog in the KGB machine he seemed to be?

It was a hint — an emotional ‘brush contact’, to use an espionage phrase — to Western intelligence of his feelings. It was, he later wrote, a ‘first, deliberate signal to the West’.

Unfortunately, the West missed it, and his gesture passed undetected. But here undoubtedly was the direction in which he was travelling even as, professionally, he was gliding smoothly upwards through the KGB ranks.

Major Oleg Gordievsky of the KGB was recruited by MI6 and risked being assassinated switching allegiances

Two years spent back in Moscow exacerbated his dismay at Soviet corruption and hypocrisy.

Returning to the Copenhagen embassy in 1972 as deputy to the rezident, the head of the KGB station, he began to read Solzhenitsyn, Orwell and Western histories exposing the full horror of Stalinism — books banned at home.

Now, a year later, he found he kept bumping into MI6 men like the tall, affable Bromhead — at an art exhibition, at diplomatic receptions. They chatted amiably but neither was giving much away. As one MI6 officer explained: ‘We needed to make it clear, without being too obvious, that we were in the market. We needed to engineer a chance meeting.’

The ‘dangle’ — one of the oldest gambits in intelligence, when one side makes a play for someone on the other — was set in motion.

When his game of badminton finished that winter morning, Gordievsky sauntered over, a towel around his neck, hand outstretched, to greet Bromhead. The two intelligence officers assessed one another.

‘Oleg displayed no sign of nervousness,’ Bromhead recalled. Gordievsky noted that the usually brash Englishman seemed for once deadly serious.

Bromhead tested the water as delicately as he could. ‘Would you be able to talk to me, tête-à-tête?’ he enquired. ‘I would love to have a private conversation with a member of your service.’

Bromhead was revealing he knew Gordievsky was a KGB officer. A line was crossed.

Leila Gordievsky, Oleg's second wife pictured around the time she met Oleg

Gordievsky didn’t hesitate. ‘I would like that,’ he replied.

‘Could we have lunch?’ a tentative Bromhead continued. Gordievsky agreed and suggested the restaurant in a hotel directly across the road from the Soviet embassy, in three days’ time.

As he drove away, Bromhead was elated, but also uneasy. Gordievsky had seemed strangely unperturbed by the approach.

He had also chosen a restaurant so near his own embassy that a hidden microphone could relay their conversation to listeners across the road. They could be spotted by Soviet officials, who frequently dined at the hotel.

For the first time, it struck Bromhead that he might be the target, not the initiator, of an attempted enlistment. ‘It was all just too easy. Oleg’s behaviour and choice of restaurant made me suspect I was being played at my own game.’

Back at the British embassy, Bromhead fired off a cable to MI6 headquarters in London: ‘For God’s sake, I think he’s trying to recruit me!’

But Gordievsky was merely establishing his cover. Back at his embassy, he told his KGB boss: ‘This fellow from the British embassy has invited me to lunch. Should I accept?’

The question was passed on to Moscow Central, headquarters of the KGB, who, sensing an opportunity, enthusiastically boomed back: ‘Yes. Meet him. Britain is a country of high interest to us.’

The Gordievsky siblings from left to right: Vasili, Marina and Oleg

This was Gordievsky’s insurance policy. Having obtained official permission, he could now make ‘sanctioned contact’ with MI6, without the KGB suspecting his loyalty. But it was a dangerous game he was playing. What if MI6 was stitching him up, luring him in, only to expose him? If he fell victim to an MI6 plot, his career in the KGB would be over. He would be recalled to Moscow.

He would also doubtless fall victim to KGB logic that anyone the other side attempted to recruit was, prima facie, suspect, leading to his arrest, torture and a bullet in the head.

Three days later, Bromhead took a seat in the restaurant, with his back to the window, where he could keep a close watch on the room. ‘I carefully examined the other diners to see if I could recognise any members of the Soviet embassy staff, whose pictures were all filed in our office. Everyone seemed to be an innocent Dane or a tourist. I sat back, wondering if Oleg would even come.’

Gordievsky entered the restaurant exactly on time. ‘He saw me at once,’ Bromhead recalled, which, in the game of mirrors the two spies were playing, made him suspicious. ‘Had he already been told which table I’d reserved? My mind raced into conventional spy fever.’

A smiling Gordievsky sat down, and Bromhead felt a ‘friendly atmosphere’ as they tucked into their food and chatted about religion, philosophy and music. Gordievsky made a mental note that the Englishman had done his homework, and ‘took trouble to talk about subjects of interest to me’. When coffee and the strong Danish spirit akvavit had been served, Bromhead asked a crucial question. ‘Will you have to file a report about our meeting?’

The reply was revealing: ‘Yes, but I’ll make it a very neutral one.’ Here was the hint of collusion Bromhead had been hoping for — not a flash of leg exactly, but the glimpse of an ankle.

Even so, he left the lunch ‘more puzzled than ever’. Gordievsky had hinted that he was not averse to concealing the truth from his KGB bosses. But he was also behaving exactly like a man who believed he was the hunter, not the prey.

Bromhead sent a memo to MI6 headquarters, emphasising ‘my fear that he wanted to recruit me’. Gordievsky also reported back to his bosses, a long, insipid document, concluding that the meeting had ‘been of interest’. And then something quite extraordinary happened — nothing. The Gordievsky case went dead. For the next eight months there was no contact whatever. Bromhead, suspicious of Gordievsky and pursuing other targets, took his eye off the ball.

Gordievsky on the Baltic coast with Mikhail Lyubimov, a Russian novelist and retired colonel in the KGB

In retrospect, it is startling to think how close MI6 came to missing out on what would turn out to be its greatest catch of all.

But in spying, as in love, a little distance, an apparent cooling, can stimulate desire. Gordievsky was dismayed when weeks passed without any renewed contact, then quite angry.

Yet in those eight frustrating months, his enthusiasm grew, so that when, in October 1974, the tall Englishman reappeared at the badminton court, he was keen and agreed to meet him — this time at a hotel away from the Soviet embassy and never frequented by Soviet officers.

Gordievsky arrived there determined to push matters on. ‘I felt it was time I took the initiative,’ he later recalled. But it was Bromhead who moved first. ‘I had toyed with the idea of talking about world peace and so on, but my intuition about Oleg told me not to try any such blarney. I went straight to the point.

‘I told him: “You’re KGB. We know you have worked in Line N of the First Chief Directorate, the most secret of all your departments, which is running illegals [spies] all over the world.

‘Would you be prepared to talk to us about what you know?’

Gordievsky gave no reply. Bromhead pressed on. ‘Tell me, who is the deputy in your section, the person in charge of political-intelligence gathering and agent-running?’ There was a pause, and then the Russian broke into a broad grin. ‘I am.’

Another line crossed. And both of them knew it.

Bromhead now administered the ‘acid test’. ‘Would you be prepared to meet me, in private, in a safe place?’ The Russian nodded before adding, ‘No one is aware that I am meeting you.’

An invisible traffic light switched from amber to green. After their first encounter, Gordievsky had informed his superiors. This meeting was unsanctioned. If the KGB discovered he had kept it secret, he was doomed.

By informing MI6 that he had told no one, he was making his switch of allegiance perfectly clear, and putting his life in their hands.

He had crossed over. Major Oleg Gordievsky of the KGB was now working with MI6. ‘Sunbeam’ was up and running. From now on he would live two distinct and parallel lives, both secret, and at war with one another.

When Bromhead’s report on his meeting with Gordievsky landed on the desks of senior MI6 officers in London, a conclave gathered to consider how to proceed. They discussed long and hard whether they were being set up.

Would a senior KGB officer really be willing to risk his life by meeting secretly with a known MI6 operative? On the other hand, if it was a trap, would the KGB dare to dangle one of its own officers in front of the enemy?

Covert surveillance photographs of Oleg Gordievsky taken by the Danish intelligence service PET during his postings to Copenhagen

After a tense debate, it was agreed to press ahead. ‘Sunbeam’ might seem too good to be true; but it was too good to pass up.

Three weeks later, Bromhead and Gordievsky met in a bar. Both had carefully ‘dry-cleaned’ themselves to get there, taking circuitous routes to ensure they were not being followed.

Bromhead explained that he had found a safe house in a flat in a residential suburb. The place was easy to reach by subway, and the MI6 secretary who lived there would make herself scarce at the appropriate times. He suggested he meet Gordievsky in a shop doorway near the flat at 7pm in three weeks’ time.

Gordievsky arrived on the dot. Bromhead appeared moments later and said: ‘Come, I’ll show you the way.’

The safe house — or ‘OCP’ in spy jargon, standing for Operational Clandestine Premises — was barely 200 yards away, but they went a long way round in case anyone was following.

The night was cold, with drifting snowflakes. Both men were bundled up inside overcoats.

Gordievsky was silent, plunged in thought: ‘Things were now serious. This was the real start of operations. For the first time I was entering enemy territory.’

Bromhead unlocked the door, ushered Gordievsky in and poured two stiff whiskies. ‘I’m quite surprised you turned up,’ he admitted. ‘Aren’t you running a grave risk?’

Gordievsky paused, and ‘in a very measured way’ replied: ‘It might be dangerous, but at this moment I do not think it will prove to be so.’

Bromhead assured him that, for his safety, he would be run under the tightest security. Only a tiny handful of people inside British intelligence would ever know he existed, and most of these would never learn his real name.

Even the CIA, the intelligence service of Britain’s closest ally, the U.S., would be kept out of the loop.

With these provisos established, Bromhead recalled, ‘we began serious co-operation’.

For years these covert surveillance photos were the only images available of him

That night, after bidding Gordievsky farewell, Bromhead reflected how little he really knew about the smiling, apparently nerveless KGB officer, who seemed ready to risk his life by colluding with MI6.

The question of money had never arisen. Nor had Gordievsky’s own safety, or that of his family, or whether he wished to defect. They had talked generally about culture and music, but not about politics, ideology or life under Soviet rule.

Gordievsky’s motivation had not been discussed. ‘I never asked him why he was doing it. There just wasn’t time.’

Those questions were still niggling Bromhead when he arrived the next morning in MI6’s London headquarters but his bosses were optimistic. It was the first time any KGB officer had responded positively to a British approach from cold. They saw this as a unique situation to be exploited to the full.

Gordievsky seemed genuine. They believed ‘Sunbeam’ could prove to be a breakthrough case.

Bromhead was not so sure. ‘I couldn’t rid myself of the thought that I might have constructed a bottomless “heffalump trap” into which my service was clearly determined to plunge headlong.’

Bromhead’s role, however, was over. He was about to leave Denmark for a new assignment but before he did, he introduced the Russian to his new handler, Philip Hawkins.

Hawkins could not have been more different to the affable Bromhead. He was Scottish and as stiff and brittle as an oatcake. His task, as he saw it, was to approach Gordievsky with a lawyerly eye and find out if he was lying. He sat the Russian down, and launched into a cross-examination.

Gordievsky was taken aback. He expected to be welcomed, praised and congratulated on the momentous choice he was making. Instead, he was being interrogated as if he were a captive enemy rather than a co-operative new recruit.

This first contact between spy and case officer was not a happy one, and both men left the meeting feeling disgruntled.

But a modus operandi had been agreed. Hawkins would fly to Copenhagen once a month, and stay for a long weekend during which they would meet twice, for at least two hours each time.

Hawkins handed over an emergency telephone number, secret ink and a London address to which Gordievsky could send urgent messages between meetings.

The appointment of the brusque and unsmiling Hawkins turned out well. He was a professional, and so was Gordievsky, and what started in an atmosphere of prickly suspicion slowly evolved into a highly efficient and exceptionally fruitful relationship, based on grudging mutual respect.

For hours they would sit on either side of a large coffee table in the safe house. Gordievsky drank strong tea, and occasionally asked for a beer. Hawkins drank nothing.

Hawkins, who was well versed in the structure of the KGB, listened as Gordievsky described, with impressive accuracy, every directorate, department and sub-department of the sprawling, complex bureaucracy inside Moscow Centre.

Some of this Hawkins already knew; a great deal he did not as Gordievsky reeled off names, functions, techniques, training methods, even rivalries and internal disputes, promotions and demotions.

He never once asked Hawkins for information about MI6, or made any of the moves a double agent attempting to infiltrate an enemy service might make.

The spymasters at MI6 headquarters were soon convinced of his bona fides. He was the real thing and playing it fair and square.

That conviction was redoubled when Gordievsky began to describe, in minute detail, how Moscow planted its spies, disguised as ordinary civilians, all over the world, created false identities, forged documents and buried moles.

He gave details of the complex methods for contacting, controlling and financing the army of Soviet illegals. His powers of recall were prodigious. At KGB school he had been taught how to memorise large quantities of information. Now he was using that skill on behalf of the other side.

At MI6 headquarters, Hawkins’s reports on his meetings were eagerly awaited. British intelligence had never run a spy so deep within the KGB.

Meanwhile. Gordievsky was beginning to relax. ‘I was much easier in my mind. My new role gave a point to my existence.’

That role, he believed, was nothing less than undermining the Soviet system, in a black and white struggle between good and evil that would eventually bring democracy to Russia, and allow Russians to live freely, read what they wanted, and listen to Bach.

He had an unshakable conviction that what he was doing was a betrayal but a righteous one.

Meanwhile, in his day job for the KGB, he continued to perform as required. The more energetic he appeared, the greater his chances of promotion, and the better his access to important information.

It was an odd situation — setting up spy operations with one hand, and then unpicking them with the other, by informing Hawkins.

He told his wife Yelena nothing of what he was up to. He felt sure that if she discovered the truth, as a loyal KGB officer herself, she would shop him.

The marriage was in deep trouble anyway — its frailty even more exposed when Gordievsky fell in love with Leila Aliyeva, a Russian-born typist for the World Health Organisation in Copenhagen. She was 28, 11 years younger than him, and sweet-natured where Yelena was shrewish and difficult.

Oleg Gordievsky in his student days at Moscow's eliste Institute of International Affairs where he was first recruited by the KGB

An affair began and they met in secret. The KGB frowned on adultery, and if he were caught out, he would be sent home in disgrace. Every few days, he would send a disguised message to Leila and commit adultery in a different Copenhagen hotel.

Every four weeks, he would make his way to an unremarkable flat in a boring Danish suburb and commit treason.

This now became the pattern of his life.

Over the course of a year, he established a system of evasion, eluding both Soviet surveillance and the suspicions of his wife, while, all the time, his relationships, with both Leila and MI6, were deepening.

The risks he took were enormous — in his lunch breaks, he would smuggle out of the embassy documents arriving from Moscow, photograph them with a miniature camera and pass the film surreptitiously to his contact as they brushed against each other in the street, a park or a station.

Then he would sneak the original documents back before anyone noticed.

He was terrified, but determined. Each contact left him fizzing with the gambler’s rush of a successful gambit, but wondering whether his luck could hold.

Even in the coldest weather, he returned to the embassy in a muck sweat of fear and excitement, hoping his colleagues would not notice his shaking hands. The flow of documents into the hands of MI6 swelled to a torrent — so many secrets that British intelligence had to be very careful in passing on the information he supplied. Allies were given nuggets but sparingly and using intermediaries or ‘cut-outs’ to appear as if they had come from elsewhere, and were generated by other means.

Some material went to the very top, to the Prime Minister, James Callaghan, but not even he was told where it had come from.

From the start, MI6 opted to play the long game.

Gordievsky was still a young man. It was vital not to burn him by being too hasty or hungry. Who knew to what heights he might rise in the KGB? His use would only improve with time and promotion.

Ultimately — as we will see — the secrets Gordievsky revealed would change the course of the Cold War and give the West a vital advantage over the Kremlin.

Adapted from THE SPY AND THE TRAITOR by Ben Macintyre, published by Viking at £25. © Ben Macintyre 2018

To order a copy for £20 (offer valid to December 8, 2018; p&p free), visit www.mailshop.co.uk/books or call 0844 571 0640.

====== 1901 ========

MOOD SWINGS TO ANXIETY AND INSOMNIA: MARIELLA FROSTRUP ON HOW THE MENOPAUSE CAUSED HER TO SUFFER

The bedside clock was blinking an insulting 2am. Had I even been asleep at all? I remember putting the light out at the usual 11.30pm, so what was I doing here, wrenched into wide-eyed wakefulness, with my heart racing, at this ridiculous hour?

This wasn’t the first night it had happened. The year was 2011, my age was 49. A definite pattern was setting in.

As someone who’d always managed to sleep quite well, despite frequent interruptions from jet lag, young children and pressing work schedules, I now found sleep completely unfathomable and unyielding.

There’s not much you can do at 2am except worry or make lists, and I became accustomed to doing both. I could write shopping lists and arrange play dates for the children, while at the same time fretting about the situation in Syria. I could even fit in a lengthy fume about a witty put-down I should have delivered to some professional adversary 30 years ago.

If I was lucky, I’d fall asleep again — only to wake a couple of hours later in the same agitated state, and start the cycle again.

What on earth was wrong with me?

When Mariella Frostrup (pictured) investigated menopause and what is on offer for women she found the 'lack of information and resources devoted to the subject is quite staggering'

With increasing fury, I tried all the tricks. I focused on my breathing, put lavender oil on my pillow, wore ear plugs, had relaxing baths before bed and even wore a beautiful silk eye mask from Liberty which my friend Penny Smith gave me.

Nothing made a jot of difference.

Fast-forward two years to 2013, and I was sitting exhausted and depressed in the London office of Sara Matthews, a gynaecologist who looked like a cross between Jessica Rabbit and a model from a Nineties Robert Palmer video.

She wore a black dress that looked like it had been poured over her curves and a pair of killer heels. With her mane of fabulous wavy hair, crimson lipstick and soft Northern Irish accent, I wanted her to sing me lullabies.

She sat down, put her hand on mine and asked how I was feeling. It was all I could do not to leap across her expansive desk and nestle, babylike, in her arms.

‘I’m so tired,’ I replied. ‘And stressed. I really don’t feel like myself.’

‘We can’t have you feeling like that,’ said Sara reassuringly. Those words sparked the beginning of the end of my nightmare.

This conversation took place five years ago and was the culmination of two years of anxiety and insomnia which I was pathetically unaware were signalling the beginning of the menopause.

As Sara scribbled a prescription for HRT, testosterone, melatonin and the hormone DHEA, all of which would make life more bearable, I felt conflicting emotions; shame at ignorance of my own biology that had led to two years of suffering, and euphoria that my misery might come to an end.

It appeared that I had reached the menopause with barely a hot flush to offer the slightest hint of what was happening.

BBC documentary explores the latest medical research on menopause in The Truth About Menopause

FRANKLY, the lack of information and resources devoted to the subject is quite staggering. I honestly didn’t have a clue, and I cannot be alone.

That’s why I’m so thrilled that the BBC, on whose door I’ve been beating for three years, finally commissioned an hour-long, peak-time programme on the subject.

I spent eight weeks touring the UK speaking to menopause specialists and sufferers to explore all the myths and taboos while looking at the various treatments available.

Even then, it took a woman — Charlotte Moore, the BBC’s Director of Content — to do it, and she had to cut a decisive swathe through many levels of male concerns about losing viewers to get it made. Why is it that we know so little about this subject? And why are we — both men and women — still so queasy about discussing it?

There are two periods of significant hormonal activity during a woman’s life. And the second one, the menopause, with its end-of-life imagery, has more in common with a virulent disease than the mere resetting of our biological clock.

Mariella Frostrup with Her Husband Jason Mccue The Great Initiative Charity Dinner. Mrs Frostrup has created an hour-long programme on menopause for the BBC

Image-wise, menopause has a serious problem. There may be little to generate excitement about the end of fertility, but it might at least be seen as a new beginning rather than a shameful secret.

Menopause is perceived as a shutting down. A menopausal woman is a pointless specimen of humankind. And lots of women walk into it with eyes wide shut. I know I did.

The average age of menopause is 51, but it can occur any time from your 40s to mid-50s and certain conditions can bring it on even earlier.

Little girls nowadays are so in tune with their bodies, they are, quite rightly, fully versed in menstruation and what it means long before their first period. Words like ‘the curse’ have been banished, as has that cruel, antiquated practice of ‘not talking about it’ and leaving terrified young girls totally ignorant and unprepared.

So why are we abandoning older women to this fate, at the other end of the journey?

Is it really shame? Embarrassment? Prudishness? That a menopausal woman is in some way unmentionable?

Given that life expectancy for women is now almost 83 years, it’s astonishing that perception of successful females should still be tied up with our ability to procreate. People don’t walk around saying, ‘You can’t have babies, you’re finished’, but it’s implicit.

What I didn’t know, but do now, is that there is no uniform response to the drop in oestrogen that happens when ovaries stop releasing eggs each month. (The growing eggs release the oestrogen, so the fall is a result of less egg growth).

For many, there are irregular periods and hot flushes. Others suffer low libido, anxiety, sleeping problems and night sweats. Some have no symptoms at all. I had the Mirena contraceptive coil, which stops periods altogether, until the age of 49, after which my periods were irregular.

Mariella Frostrup: 'Image-wise, menopause has a serious problem. There may be little to generate excitement about the end of fertility, but it might at least be seen as a new beginning rather than a shameful secret'

During my research, I was shocked by the levels of ignorance and the amount of women who were so embarrassed they didn’t go to their GP, even when their work and personal lives were significantly affected.

I now know that it can be entirely physiological as well as psychological; shifting hormone ratios — in particular oestrogen and progesterone, the other hormone that falls off a cliff in menopause and which promotes sleep.

The problem with not sleeping is that your ability to function on full power just isn’t there. Everything is harder and takes longer. Suddenly the week just didn’t seem to have enough days in it to get everything done.

I found my memory was affected. I always used to wonder why my mother had lists everywhere — now I had lists on WhatsApp and Post-Its scattered throughout the house. I still can’t live without the white board on my fridge keeping me operational.

Hand in hand with insomnia came crushing and inexplicable anxiety — an irrational feeling which I’d normally associate with being stressed, even though during lucid moments I knew I didn’t have that much to be so agitated about.

Yet there was no respite, and it didn’t have a filter; I’d be as overwrought about internet shopping as I was about getting home from the USA in time to relieve the babysitter. Was I snappy with my husband? I was snappy with every single person I encountered.

I now realise I’m one of millions suffering similar bewilderment, and that many of my contemporaries are enduring this — and worse — in shamed silence, unlike me.

My husband said that I needed to relax and try to get more sleep. Most helpful! But the hardest thing was not knowing why I wasn’t sleeping in the first place. We were just moving from London to Somerset, and there was obviously associated stress, but I was excited rather than harassed.

The most recognisable symptom of menopause, apart from dwindling periods, is the hot flush, but I’ve only ever had two. That was enough to understand how incredibly debilitating they must be for the many millions of women out there for whom they are a regular occurrence.

My symptoms were nothing compared to those I interviewed for The Truth About The Menopause — Anita Carter, a 60-year-old JobCentre manager from Warrington, suffered 30 hot flushes a day, for example. Her work and sleep were dramatically affected. But my meagre two hot flushes were a glimpse into their hell.

On both occasions I was lying in bed. The best way of describing a hot flush is someone blasting boiling hot air all the way from the soles of your feet through your body, with volcanic strength. It’s quite unbelievable, and the extreme heat like a physical force.

As for libido. Well, of course I noticed, but anyone desperate for sex when they’re in a long-term relationship in their 50s has some other condition! I know plenty of men of the same age who aren’t as rampantly sexual as a decade earlier.

There are many aspects of the menopause which are, I suspect, common to both sexes, or simply side-effects of increasing age. For men, these are regarded as part of growing older; for women, they’re terrifying totems of obsoletion.

Eventually, after a year and a half, I went to see a private doctor who did three blood tests over the course of six months to check my hormone levels: the first test said that I was post-menopausal, the second said I was perimenopausal and third said that I wasn’t menopausal at all.

Baffled, he recommended that I go and see the gynaecologist Sara Matthews.

There was just one obstacle — my private health insurance. I phoned up AXA PPP and said quite cheerfully that I was going to see Sara, and might I have an authorisation number for the upcoming claim.

The lady on the other end of the line sounded sympathetic and finally suggested that my symptoms might be menopausal. When I agreed it might, her tone changed and she said: ‘If it’s anything to do with menopause we don’t cover it.’

So, a huge range of symptoms are all lumped together, called the menopause, and completely dismissed.

I’m so incensed, I’m seriously thinking of mounting a legal case.

If a man in his 50s suffers sleeplessness, anxiety, mood swings or depression, they’re regarded as individual symptoms and dealt with accordingly. But a raft of things a woman may experience as she journeys through middle age and beyond are all dismissed as side-effects of a condition that doesn’t exist except as a name for the end of your monthly cycle!

The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) announced new guidelines for diagnosing and dealing with menopause only three years ago, even though women have been coping since time immemorial.

There are clearly solutions, and now that attention and investment is beginning to be focused on it, medical breakthroughs are occurring.

During my research, I met doctors who can reverse the menopause and came across an amazing new drug being trialled that seems to halt hot flushes.

As for our amazing NHS, when it comes to menopause you may find yourself in a bit of a lottery, depending on how up-to-date and interested your GP is.

There simply is not enough resources and research being put into menopause - Mariella Frostrup found

Many of the preparations are decades old, and haven’t changed much since HRT was first introduced in the UK in 1965. A few new ones have come onto the market since: as well as tablets, there is the HRT patch, which I clearly remember my own mother wearing when she was going the menopause 30 years ago.

There are also gels, which are applied topically, meaning the hormones are absorbed through the skin.

These may be available across the country, but for many women HRT treatment can be a very blunt instrument.

When I went to see my gynaecologist Sara in 2013, she said immediately that everything I’d described pointed to the menopause. She wrote out a prescription for HRT, testosterone, melatonin and the hormone DHEA, a mixture of tablets, creams and patches, all of which would make life more bearable.

The first patch I tried from Sara had to be replaced every three days. I felt like a branded cow, walking around with a plastic square stuck on me, which induced flashbacks of my mother doing the same all those years ago.

The second one was supposedly better but thicker. It used to fall off and didn’t deliver the correct amount of hormone, so my oestrogen levels plummeted, sending me back to square one.

After a bit of trial and error, I settled on an oestrogen gel, which I apply to my inner arm in the morning, and I take a progesterone pill at night. Within a week I felt like myself again. Sleep patterns reset, vigour renewed and mood swings levelled out.

The biggest difference was that I got stressed in a normal way; about normal triggers like my children dropping wet towels on the floor, rather than 24 hours a day about nothing in particular.

I also learned coping mechanisms. Talking helped, as did learning to breathe

— if I can’t sleep I do counted breathing, which works most of the time.

Once I knew what was happening, I was quite happy to talk about the subject, but found I was in the minority. What really shocked me was that in my own circle of friends, whom I consider to be forward-thinking and educated, there was an avoidance of the topic.

I’d mention it to girlfriends and they’d shudder and say, ‘Thank God I don’t have it yet’, as though it was a disease. If I joked about the menopause in front of men, there was just total silence.

I first mentioned it in a column back in 2015. In the days afterwards, total strangers, female naturally, came up to me in restaurant loos, on public transport and on street corners telling me how brave I was. It felt like I’d started a secret society.

On one memorable occasion, at a swanky party in London where Michael Fassbender was the most exotic guest, a woman in her 30s elbowed past him to tell me that I was her heroine for not being embarrassed to use the M-word.

Now aged 56, I am firmly post-menopause. The bell finally tolled two years ago, though I suspect I’ll be taking HRT till the day I die (although another area we cover in the programme is the risk of breast cancer).

For me, I feel it’s minimal enough that the benefits outweigh the risks. However, I spoke to Woman’s Hour matriarch Dame Jenni Murray, who took it and subsequently had a breast cancer diagnosis. She understandably stands firm on the other side of the debate.

Emerging from the menopause has given me an amazing sense of rebirth. I feel stronger, with renewed confidence. I am fitter than I was in my 40s and have a far healthier lifestyle — these days you pay heavily for any form of debauchery. Post-50, there’s no such thing as ‘just a hangover’!

I desperately want to ensure that other women don’t see the menopause as being a full stop, that we stop sweeping any discussion of it under the carpet.

And most importantly, that my daughter’s generation are better informed and utterly unashamed to talk about the menopause, which is not a time bomb, but just a necessary readjustment to our biological clocks.

n The Truth About The Menopause is on BBC1 on Monday, November 26, at 9pm.

====== 1902 ========

OXFORD UNIVERSITY STUDENTS PROTEST IN THEIR KNICKERS OVER IRISH RAPE TRIAL

Oxford University students stripped down to their knickers today in protest of an Irish rape trial in which the alleged victim's underwear was used as evidence against her in court.

Around 60 students from the prestigious university marched in Oxford wearing lacy underwear over their clothes waving signs that read 'this is not consent'.

Some members of the group braved the cold and removed their overcoats to reveal their underwear beneath.

A female protester stripped down to her lacy underwear and held a sign that read 'Not Consent' with a pair of knickers stuck to it

Another holds a placard with lacy pink underwear attached, in protest of a defence barrister's comments during a rape trial in Ireland

A woman braves the cold (left) to get her message across while another demonstrator holds a sign highlighting the injustices of rape

The group of around 60 demonstrators said they wanted to bring an end to 'victim blaming'

They chanted slogans including: 'What causes rape? Rapists', 'Clothing is not consent', and 'I believe her!'

The protest comes on the back of comments made to a jury by defence lawyer Elizabeth O'Connell.

She used the 17-year-old complainant's lacy underwear to get a 27-year-old man acquitted of rape in Cork.

The defence barrister told jurors that the alleged victim's knickers were a sign she 'was open to meeting someone that night'.

Around 60 students from Oxford University gathered to protest the lawyer's comments

A woman uses a megaphone to chant slogans including: 'What causes rape? Rapists', 'Clothing is not consent', and 'I believe her!'

A half-dressed woman holds a sign reading 'Boys will be held accountable for their actions'

She said: 'You have to look at the way she [the alleged victim] was dressed. She was wearing a thong with a lace front.'

Protest organiser Bryony Streets told Cherwell: 'The anger I felt only grew as I looked further into the case, moving me to organise a protest against victim blaming.

'I hope this will show our support for all victims of sexual assault and continue to press the point that victims should never be blamed for the actions of their attackers.'

Students hung up underwear on a clothes line in the middle of Cornmarket Street in Oxford

The demonstrators took issue with the alleged victim's pants being used as a sign of consent

Ellie McCourt-Clarke, who attended the protest, added: 'Clothing is not consent and protests like this are only the beginning to change attitudes surrounding that belief.

Everyone should come to make a stand whilst simultaneously supporting anyone affected by rape, sexual assault and its consequences.'



====== 1903 ========

MOTHER, 30, WHO NEARLY DIED OF SEPSIS IS REUNITED WITH THE MEDICS WHO HELPED PLAN HER WEDDING DAY

Hayley Clarke, 30, from Bangor, north Wales, almost died from sepsis and was reunited with the nurses who helped plan her wedding

A mother who nearly died of sepsis and spent two weeks in a coma has been reunited with the nurses who helped to plan her wedding day from her hospital bed.

Hayley Clarke, 30, from Bangor, north Wales, who suffers Crohn's Disease, was struck down with deadly blood poisoning shortly after giving birth to her second child.

The mother-of-two, a former nightclub supervisor, contracted sepsis from a perforated bowel and was so ill that she was placed in an induced coma for two weeks.

And four years later she has been reunited with the nurses who made her wedding day to husband David, 34, so special.

Ms Clarke said: 'Being reunited with the nurses who helped save me was just so emotional. There were lots of tears.

The nurses, who cared for Ms Clarke for months, helped her find a dress, do her make-up, decorated the hospital room and organised a hen party.

She said: 'They did so much to ensure me and David had a special day. We were watching an episode of Don't Tell the Bride and one of the nurses suggested it to me.

The nurses, who cared for Ms Clarke for more than a year in hospital, helped her find a dress, do her make-up, decorated the hospital room and organised a hen party

Ms Clarke with her husband David, 34, whom she married from her bed after spending more than a year in hospital

'I thought why not. It gave me something to look forward to after having so much go wrong.'

Ms Clarke was rushed to A&E in 2014 with a fever and excruciating pain and doctors warned her family that she was at risk of brain damage if she came round from the coma.

Ms Clarke spent six months in intensive care unit at the Ysbyty Gwynedd hospital and doctors claimed the fluid on her brain was the worst they had ever seen.

She said: 'I don't remember a lot of what happened when I was admitted into hospital.

The kind nurses and medics inspired Ms Clarke to move her wedding day forward and they helped with every detail

The nurses managed to find a size 16 dress that fit over the top of the wires and tubes and they they decorated the bed with a sheet so it looked less like a hospital bed

Nurses even bought decorations such as fairy lights so that Ms Clarke could marry the 'love of her life'

Staff even made sure Ms Clarke got to celebrate a hen party which they organised in the hospital

'My Mum and David refused to let doctors turn off my ventilator but after my CT scan I began to come round.

'They had to keep the surgery wound on my stomach open because it was too fragile to stitch up and I was eventually allowed to visit home every so often.'

Ms Clarke had already set the date for her wedding day but was inspired by the nurses move it forward.

Ms Clarke shows the scars she has from her numerous operations. The mother-of-two, who suffers Chrohn's disease, contracted sepsis after giving birth to her second child

When Ms Clarke was reunited with the nurses that saved her life and helped plan her wedding day, she was able to wear the original dress she had chosen before falling ill

She said: 'I was worried people would think I was stupid but it gave me something to focus on.

'I wasn't able to wear the dress I had originally picked but nurses managed to find a size 16 dress that fit over the top of the wires and tubes I was connected too.

'My aunt did my flowers, one of the nurses did my make-up and my best friend, Elinor, did my hair.

After more than a year in two hospitals, Ms Clarke was able to go home to her two children, Ellie, nine, and Amelia, Five

'They decorated the bed with a sheet so it looked less like a hospital bed and decorated with fairy lights.

'They even organised a hen-party for me and all my friends.'

After more than a year in two hospitals, Ms Clarke was able to go home to her two children, Ellie, nine, and Amelia, five.

Ms Clarke was even able to put on the wedding dress that she never got to wear on her big day as part of a reunion and says that she owes her life to the nurses and hospital staff that cared for her.

She said: 'I can't explain how much they helped me. Every time I see them I feel like I owe them so much.

'Nothing was too much trouble for them.

'I can never thank them enough for the care they gave me.'

====== 1904 ========

ADVENT OF THE VERY MERRY CHRISTMAS WITH CALENDARS PACKED WITH BOOZE

Jack Daniel’s

Asda, £60

‘A Tennessee twist on the traditional advent calendar,’ says Asda.

THE BOTTOM LINE: 23 5cl bottles inc. Single Barrel. One door has a key ring hip flask.

HOW BOOZY IS IT? Single Barrel packs has 45 per cent alcohol by volume (ABV).

UNITS OF ALCOHOL: 46 — the monthly recommended intake is 56 units, so it may be best to spread the festive cheer.

WHAT COULD I BUY INSTEAD? A one-litre bottle JD, £22, Asda.

this Jack Daniel's advent calendar has a different surprise behind each door

Wine miniatures

Virginwines.co.uk, £79.99

Green and vaguely tree shaped, each door is a decorated bauble, although at 71cm tall, it needs plenty of room.

THE BOTTOM LINE: 24 bottles — 11 red, 8 white, 1 rose, 3 fizzes and 1 of port, each measuring between 187 and 200ml. One for sharing, hic!

HOW BOOZY IS IT? The lowest is 10.5 per cent ABV and highest 20 per cent.

UNITS OF ALCOHOL: 60.

WHAT COULD I BUY INSTEAD? Seven bottles of Virgin’s £7.99 Italian Vermentino (the calendar is surprisingly good value).

These wine miniatures offer a different tipple behind each of the 24 doors on the calendar

Cracking Whiskies

First4hampers.com, £125

In the shape of a giant cracker, this one wins on the festive front. You and a close pal will love it.

THE BOTTOM LINE: Each door conceals a 50ml whisky from Glengoyne, Sheep Dip, Ardberg Glenfiddich etc.

HOW BOOZY IS IT? All around 40 per cent.

UNITS OF ALCOHOL: 48.

WHAT COULD I BUY INSTEAD? Amazon has 700ml of Sheep Dip for £29.47.

This £125 hamper has 24 bottles each containing 50ml of whisky from different distilleries

The Tree of Beer

Best Of British Beer, £85

It's festive . . . kind of.

THE BOTTOM LINE: Arrives fully assembled, with a star to put on top and includes 25 330ml bottles — plus a Christmas Day bonus.

HOW BOOZY IS IT? Varies from 3.8 to 5.5 per cent.

UNITS OF ALCOHOL: 37.

WHAT COULD I BUY INSTEAD? Cases of 12 cost £33.99 from bestofbritishbeer. co.uk, £67.98 for two and you are just one bottle short of the calendar’s 25.

This £85 'Tree of Beer' even contains a Christmas Day bonus as a special present

Rum Map

Drinks By The Dram, £149.95

A colourful world map doesn’t scream Christmas, but you could crack this calendar any time.

THE BOTTOM LINE: 24 30ml drams hailing from all around the world.

HOW BOOZY IS IT? From 38 to 57 per cent ABV.

UNITS OF ALCOHOL: 29.

WHAT COULD I BUY INSTEAD? A 700ml festive bottle of Dead Man’s Fingers spiced rum is £16 at Asda.

This £150 advent calendar contains different rums from around the world in 30ml bottles

Plonk Galore

Laithwaite’s, £63.99

Basically a red box, albeit a festive one.

THE BOTTOM LINE: 24 bottles of wine, red, white and prosecco, ending with gold-medal winning bubbly on day 24. Perfect with friends.

HOW BOOZY IS IT? Up to 14.5 per cent ABV.

UNITS OF ALCOHOL: 66.

WHAT COULD I BUY INSTEAD? Six bottles of Laithwaite’s Le Calleselle prosecco at £7.99 a bottle.

This has a mixed case of different wines finishing with a small bottle of Prosecco for £64

Refillable Prosecco

Notonthehighstreet.com, £169.95

Not cheap, but the cute wooden tree can be refilled each year. Use foil-topped bottles so your ‘baubles’ look pretty.

THE BOTTOM LINE: a variety of 24 x 20cl bottles of fizz, mostly prosecco, with cava and a couple of bottles of Lanson champers. Ideal to share.

HOW BOOZY IS IT? ABV of between 6.5 and 12.5 per cent.

UNITS OF ALCOHOL: 56.

WHAT COULD I BUY INSTEAD? Six bottles of Lanson Black Label, £22 each at Tesco.

For the Prosecco lover, this £170 refillable tree can be used year after year - with new bottles

Beer and ale

John Lewis, £70

Would look better under the tree than on the mantelpiece.

THE BOTTOM LINE: A selection of 24 bottles from Suffolk brewer Adnams, including stout, IPA and a dry hopped lager.

HOW BOOZY IS IT? With a nod to the non-drinker, there are a couple of alcohol free offerings through to Triple Knot at 10 per cent ABV.

UNITS OF ALCOHOL: 39.

WHAT COULD I BUY INSTEAD? A couple of five-litre kegs of Adnams Ghost Ship, Tesco, £15 each.

This £70 case of 24 beers has a couple of non-alcoholic surprises from Adnams brewery

Fizz and Truffles

Morrisons, £39

It looks like a case of booze, but it’s a bargain.

THE BOTTOM LINE: For those who find 24 bottles of booze a bit much, this has 12 x 200ml bottles of fizz, chocolate truffles, bath foam and shower gel.

HOW BOOZY IS IT? All the bottles are 11 per cent ABV.

UNITS OF ALCOHOL: 28.

WHAT COULD I BUY INSTEAD? Three bottles of Morrison’s ‘The Best’ Prosecco at £7 each.

At £39, this box from Morrisons is a bargain with 12 bottles of fizz and even some shower gel

The ultimate Gin and Tonic

Fever Tree, available from Waitrose, £60

Navy blue, with a festive gold trim that would look smart on the mantelpiece.

THE BOTTOM LINE: A dozen 50ml bottles of craft gin by the likes of Sipsmith, Pink Pepper and Chase Distillery and a dozen bottles of tonic (Fever Tree, of course).

HOW BOOZY IS IT? All around 40 per cent.

UNITS OF ALCOHOL: 26.

WHAT COULD I BUY INSTEAD? Hendrick’s is £28 for 700ml at Waitrose and an eight-pack of Fever Tree is £3.99.

This £60 case matches a dozen craft gins with a dozen Fever Tree tonics

G with lots of T

John Lewis, £95

It could be a shoe box, but inside there’s a Christmas twist.

THE BOTTOM LINE: Just one bottle of Lakes Explorer gin with a range of different flavoured tonics.

HOW BOOZY IS IT? The gin is a 700ml, 47 per cent ABV affair.

UNITS OF ALCOHOL: 31.

WHAT COULD I BUY INSTEAD? A bottle of the gin is £39.95; two 12-packs of mini cans of Schweppes, £7, Asda.

This has one single bottle of gin with a range of different tonic waters for £95

Tequila

Amazon, £149.93

Something unusual: a colourful, but not terribly Christmassy box of tempting tequila.

THE BOTTOM LINE: Twenty-four different, handmade 30ml wax-sealed drams of Tequila from across Mexico. No salt or lime.

HOW BOOZY IS IT? From 38 to 54 per cent ABV.

UNITS OF ALCOHOL: 29.

WHAT COULD I BUY INSTEAD? Waitrose has a 700ml bottle of El Jimador tequila blanco for £20.

These tequilas are all wax sealed from different producers around Mexico and cost £150

Japanese Whiskey

Drinks By The Dram, £194.95

A very on-trend collection of 24 Japanese whiskies in a non-festive brown box.

THE BOTTOM LINE: From single grain to rare single malt, 24 30ml Nipponese whiskies.

HOW BOOZY IS IT? From 40 to 53 per cent.

UNITS OF ALCOHOL: 30.

WHAT COULD I BUY INSTEAD? Waitrose has a 700ml bottle of Togouchi Japanese blended whiskey for £37.50.

====== 1905 ========

POLICE TAKE 45 MINUTES TO ARRIVE AT A BURGLARY NEXT TO THEIR OWN STATION IN HARTLEPOOL

We're driving, very slowly, through a housing estate in Hartlepool. It's just before 3.30am and, unsurprisingly at this ungodly hour, the streets are deserted.

Except for a lone figure ahead of us skulking in allotments backing onto a row of houses, our third such sighting of the same man acting suspiciously in the vicinity.

When the person sitting next to me at the wheel, ex-store detective Terry Hughes, shines a torch at him from inside the car, he rides off on a mountain bike but not before the beam momentarily lights up his face.

'I know him,' Terry suddenly exclaims: 'He's a villain, a scumbag.'

Terry, it turns out, has 'detained' him several times at local stores in the past and 'ended up on the floor' during the ensuing struggle to stop him escaping with stolen goods. He's not just guilty of 'shoplifting', Terry says, but also burglaries and car crime for which he has served time in prison.

Terry rings 101, the non-emergency number for the police, and passes on the name of the 'suspect', that he is a 'known criminal', as well as the location where he was last spotted, opposite the Stag And Monkey pub, on the corner of Belle Vue Way and Brenda Road.

The operator replies: 'We'll send a car around to take a look.'

Fifteen minutes pass, then 20 and 30. After nearly, 40 minutes, there's still no sign of a patrol car.

No one expected otherwise, of course.

This is not meant to be a criticism of the overworked rank-and-file officers on the perilously thin blue line in Hartlepool; just a statement of fact, that on some nights, Hartlepool, County Durham, population 90,000, is left with just ten officers on duty at a time.

Terry Hughes, one of a band of Hartlepool residents who have taken measures to keep fellow residents safe by patrolling the streets wearing a bodycam

They say there are lies, damned lies and statistics, but there is only one way these statistics, revealed this week following a BBC investigation, can be interpreted and the implications are alarming.

Which brings us to the man sitting next to me in the car.

Terry, 53, a father and grandfather, should really be at home with his family. Instead, every night — yes, every night — for the past 14 weeks he and a small group of residents, both male and female, including a taxi driver, factory worker, IT specialist, and nightclub singer, patrol the suburb of Foggy Furze, keeping an eye on homes, businesses and vehicles and looking out for the elderly and vulnerable.

Why? Because they believe that crippling budget cuts mean the Cleveland force has now 'given up' responding to some calls.

These volunteers have been glibly called vigilantes, a word which has become synonymous with vengeful mobs dishing out rough justice.

'We're concerned citizens, not vigilantes, who want our children and grandchildren as well as our neighbours to feel safe,' Terry says before I join him 'on patrol' in Foggy Furze in the small hours of Thursday morning. He is wearing a bodycam (wearable camera) and his saloon is fitted with a dashcam. 'I also have a panic alarm in case I get into trouble,' Terry explains. 'It makes a deafening shriek if I pull the cord.'

Thankfully, he hasn't needed to yet.

In the past year, Foggy Furze, so named because the neighbourhood originally sprung up around a farm ('foggy' is an old word for a place where coarse grass grows and 'furze' is another name for gorse), has averaged 200 crimes a month.

Not unrealistic, then, to expect a squad car to have at least shown up when Terry reported a notorious local burglar on the prowl in a residential street. But, there was little chance of that.

I saw only one police vehicle, heading out of Foggy Furze, during the time I was with Terry. But back at Hartlepool police station, no fewer than six police vans and seven police cars were parked up outside all night, with not a single officer in any of them. The explanation for that, if one was needed, was spelled out bluntly to a local businessman who wondered why no one had come to see him when the thieves who stole £1,500 of his tools were caught red-handed on CCTV.

'I called the police straight away and went to the station the next day,' he tells us.

'But I was informed there were not enough police to cope and they had police cars without police to fill them.'

The strain on resources can only get worse. The custody suite in Hartlepool, where arrested people are dealt with, is shutting permanently. From early next year, they will be taken on an hour-long round trip to a purpose-built facility in Middlesbrough.

On a recent Saturday night, police admitted there were no officers free to respond to emergencies in Hartlepool.

Our own inquiries here have uncovered other worrying examples, such as officers taking between 'one and two hours' to answer a 999 call from a (pregnant) shop assistant during a raid on a convenience store last month and 45 minutes to attend the scene of a burglary in progress at a block of flats just round the corner from the police station itself.

Citizens like Terry Hughes are filling the vacuum in towns and cities all over the country. Nationwide, forces have lost 22,000 frontline officers.

The impact on Hartlepool, a town built on shipbuilding and steel, but in terminal economic decline since the Seventies, has been especially corrosive, contributing, many argue, to a sense of social disconnection — even from the rest of the North-East.

Today, one in ten people here do not have a job, double the national average. Eleven of Hartlepool's wards are among Britain's five per cent most deprived areas and there is still anger about the closure, seven years ago, of A&E at the University Hospital of Hartlepool which means a 30-minute drive, or a 90-minute bus journey, to Stockton for people with serious injuries.

Since then, Cleveland has lost 500 officers, leaving it with a uniformed force of 1,257. The results have been predictable. Overall, crime in Hartlepool between April 2017 and March 2018 rose by 19 per cent, according to the Office For National Statistics, with 10,757 incidents in total.

Meanwhile, less than nine per cent of robberies, burglaries, arson and criminal damage were solved, the Hartlepool Mail newspaper reported in June.

Cleveland Police chief constable Mike Veale has said the service his force is providing is 'nowhere near where it needs to be'.

'I would not be exhibiting the courage that my officers and staff deserve if I continue to say we have enough resources, if I continue with this commentary that things in policing are okay,' he said in a statement yesterday.

'They are not OK. The cuts created and caused by austerity are too deep and have gone on for too long. We have brilliant people doing a brilliant job, but we do not have enough of them and the facts speak for themselves.

'It is about time that trend was reversed so that we can protect our communities, protect the most vulnerable and protect everyday people who go about their business and protect them with courage, kindness and compassion. My message is clear: give us the tools and we will do the job.'

Nothing illustrates more starkly what the reduction in police manpower means than events which unfolded in a parade of shops on Elwick Road in the heart of Foggy Furze last month.

They began on Friday, October 19, when a young man and woman robbed the McColl's store, barging one female assistant out the way and forcibly removing another's hands from the till, before escaping with a small amount of cash. 'The women, both in their 50s, were scared to death,' says a colleague. They dialled 999 at 6.30pm. 'You expect a response straight away,' she added.

In Cleveland, ten minutes is the target response for calls classed as 'emergency' in an urban setting. Officers eventually turned up around two hours later at 8.30pm.

The following day, the pair struck at the Spar in nearby Oxford Road before returning to target McColl's again 24 hours later. This time, officers arrived within an hour.

While they were taking statements and reviewing the CCTV, the culprits held up a third retailer in the neighbourhood, but were apprehended soon afterwards.

The almost farcical saga didn't end there. On October 24, the serial robbers appeared in court. The woman was bailed in the morning. Her accomplice was due to be sentenced in the afternoon, but absconded at the lunch break.

Crimes in Hartlepool were committed near to the police station but officers did not turn up for up to two hours because they were so stretched

The two of them then carried out more robberies, at a newsagent's in the afternoon, and a Premier store in the evening.

A 19-year-old who was ten weeks' pregnant was behind the counter at the Premier branch. She was involved in a scuffle trying to stop them stealing from the cash machine and had to be taken to hospital as a precaution.

How long did the police take to respond? Up to two hours, apparently, but, mercifully, the couple have now been caught and are off the streets of Hartlepool.

Endless criminal activity like this on his doorstep — 20 cars were broken into in his own street in six months — persuaded Terry Hughes to start patrolling Foggy Furze and he was soon joined by two people he knew, taxi driver Stephen Picton and factory worker Darren Price. The Foggy Furze community watch, as they call themselves, now numbers seven.

Patrol volunteers and crime victims post nightly reports of incidents on a private Facebook page for residents.

Group secretary Tania Wilson compiles a weekly crime report. The one for November 11-18 reads: suspicious activity (7), public order (2), theft (2) criminal damage (3), attempted theft, burglary (2), assault with a knife.

What does Terry's wife think about his role? 'She's petrified,' he replied, though he explains that it often simply entails providing reassurance. He tells me about an old lady he once helped on his 'round'.

She was worried that two properties next to her had become vacant and could attract undesirables, so Terry slipped an envelope through her letterbox several times a night with his name written on it and the time he passed by to let her know everything was OK.

'She's quite happy now and doesn't need me to do it any more,' he said.

My tour of Foggy Furze begins just after 2.30am. Terry points to a block of flats shortly after we arrive on the estate. 'It's full of smackheads,' he says.

The group's weekly crime report also informs me that this is where a man in a dark tracksuit (slim, 5ft 10in) tried a front door handle at the weekend but fled when the dog barked. Up the road is where a resident had fishing tackle stolen from the boot of his car.

Terry says that the owner didn't bother going to the police, but instead obtained CCTV film of the theft from a neighbour and the leisure centre nearby and posted the footage on Facebook.

Not long afterwards, his fishing tackle was found three miles away and returned to him.

Many of the properties have CCTV or burglar alarms or both; even the charity shops have security grills.

An earlier patrol in the evening, we learn en route, was eventful. Two youths on bikes were being monitored and one subsequently climbed on to the roof of a house. The suspected burglars were chased away and police attended promptly after both the 'patrol' and home owner dialled 999.

On Cornwall Street there is a Premier store which has also been hit. 'It was held up at knifepoint last year,' Terry reveals as he drives along this part of the estate, which he describes as a 'hotspot.'

Another particularly nasty incident took place not far from here, in Stratford Road at 11pm last Sunday. It's highlighted in the crime log, too. 'Two males with balaclavas entered a property armed with knives. A male was slashed with a knife and beaten with a knuckle duster and a woman was knocked into a wall when she tried to intervene.'

The victims were Robbie Brown and girlfriend Toni Barnard. The couple were asleep when the masked intruders burst in.

Mr Brown, who works for a utility company, posted pictures of his injury on Facebook from his hospital bed appealing to anyone with relevant CCTV footage to get in touch.

'We're fine now,' he told us. 'Everything is fine. I just want to know what was behind it because it was such a random attack.'

It was about 3am, when we had our first sighting of the well-known local villain on his bike in Caledonian Road, although Terry did not recognise him until later.

He attracted our attention because it's hard to imagine why anyone would be cycling through this neighbourhood at that time unless they were up to no good.

He popped up again down the side of the Greenside pub in Stockton Road before reappearing near allotments in Brenda Road when Terry calls the police.

Outside Hartlepool police station the following day, we're greeted by a similar scene to the night before. Four patrol cars and three vans were parked up — all empty.

Additional reporting: Mark Branagan and Tim Stewart

====== 1906 ========

PAEDOPHILE ADMITS ATTACKING SEVEN-YEAR-OLD BUT DENIES MURDERING TWO SCHOOLGIRLS

A convicted paedophile has denied the murders of two schoolgirls but admitted his 'shame' at attacking a seven-year-old girl less than three years later.

Russell Bishop, 52, is on trial for the second time over the deaths of nine-year-olds Nicola Fellows and Karen Hadaway.

The girls were sexually assaulted and strangled in a den in Wild Park in Brighton, East Sussex, in October 1986.

Former roofer Bishop, was cleared of their murders in 1987 but within three years was jailed for life for the kidnap, sexual assault and attempted murder of a seven-year-old girl around seven miles away at Devil's Dyke on the South Downs.

He was ordered to stand trial at the Old Bailey for the killings of Nicola and Karen in light of new forensic evidence.

Karen Hadaway, left, and Nicola Fellows died in 1986 in Wild Park in Brighton, East Sussex

Bishop's legal team has cast suspicion on Nicola's father, Barrie Fellows, suggesting he had a gap in his alibi, watched a video of his daughter being abused, and claimed he had been violent in the past.

However, the court has heard forensic evidence taken from a Pinto sweatshirt discarded along Bishop's route home which was linked to the defendant and the girls.

Giving evidence, Bishop appeared emotional as he told jurors he did not kill Nicola or Karen and he did not know who did.

Bishop said he felt 'deeply ashamed' for abducting a younger girl in 1990.

He said he was 'in a bad state' after his first murder trial.

On the day he attacked the seven-year-old girl he was fixing his brake pipes that had been cut eight or nine times since his acquittal.

He 'started to go mad, screaming, shouting and turned to throw the spanner' when he saw the girl and 'grabbed hold of her', he said.

Barrie Fellows, father of Nicola Fellows, arrives at the Old Bailey to give evidence

Bishop told jurors he had given evidence in his trial for attacking the youngster but did not tell the truth 'in any shape or form'.

On the day the girls disappeared, Bishop said he went digging for fishing bait, tried to visit Fellows' lodger Dougie Judd and then went on to Sussex University car park to attempt to steal a red Ford Escort.

As he walked home wearing a 'blue flecky jumper' he came across the park keeper in Wild Park and saw girls from a distance, he said.

From there, Bishop said he dropped by the home of Angie Cutting to buy a 'small amount of cannabis' which he rolled into a joint.

Once home, Bishop said he had a bath, which was interrupted by an insurance salesman, then began cooking a meal and washing the clothes he was wearing that had got 'muck on it' from his walk.

He said: 'Once I had cooked the meal I sat down, saw the last five or 10 minutes of EastEnders.

'It was Lofty coming to the pub playing the piano singing, something like that going on.'

Later, his partner, Jennie Johnson, returned home with their young son and they watch a film called the Runaway Train, Bishop said.

At 2.30am, police first arrived at the house and asked Bishop if he could help with the missing girls.

A blue Pinto sweatshirt, allegedly worn by Russell Bishop and said to contain vital DNA evidence

The area where the bodies of Karen Hadaway and Nicola Fellows were found, in a woodland den in an overgrown area in Wild Park on the South Downs, near Brighton

The next afternoon, Bishop joined the search with his dog Misty, who was shown Karen's clothing to help track them.

Bishop told a police officer he feared that he would be suspected if he found the girls.

He told jurors: 'There was a few things that led to that kind of thinking.

'A couple of years before this I was wrongfully arrested for the Grand Hotel bombing in Brighton.'

Before then, his father was wrongly arrested for murdering a local woman called Margaret Frame who was buried in a shallow grave, the court heard.

Bishop said his 'old man' had even warned him 'don't get involved' before he set off for the search.

When a young man raised the alarm that the girls were found, Bishop said he was told to go up and keep people away.

He said: 'The young man sitting down said he did not know whether they were asleep or dead.

Sketch of Russell Bishop in the dock at the Old Bailey. He told the court he did not murder Nicola Fellows and Karen Hadaway

'I went straight to the victims, felt for a pulse. Neck on Nicola and Karen on the right arm.'

Bishop told jurors he felt 'shocked, totally sickened' and how he felt 'uneasy' when he was interviewed by police for 13 hours without a solicitor.

He was quizzed about why his account differed from what the two teenagers who found the bodies had said.

Bishop said: 'I started getting all frustrated, confused, tied up in knots.'

He alleged officers showed him pictures of the dead girls and the area where they were found.

Joel Bennathan QC, defending, said: 'By the end of this process you signed a witness statement that said you did not take the pulse of the girls.'

Bishop said: 'I was just telling them what they wanted to hear. It was obvious they were not going to believe me over what those two boys were saying.

'I was being called a liar. They had been downright nasty. I was being kept a prisoner. I was having two police officers bullying and totally destroying me in that room.

'I'm dyslexic and I could not read or write. I had poor problem solving skills. It was the only way I was going to get out of there.'

Bishop, now 52, is on trial for the second time for the murders of Nicola and Karen. He has denied the charges against him

Mr Bennathan then called Bishop into the witness box and asked him: 'Did you kill Karen Hadaway?'

Softly spoken Bishop replied: 'No, I didn't, no.'

When Mr Bennathan repeated the question in respect of Nicola Fellows, he added: 'No.'

The barrister asked Bishop to confirm that he was handed a life sentence in respect of the 1990 offences, to which he said: 'I am ashamed to say, yes I was.'

Wearing glasses with a dark grey t-shirt and grey tracksuit bottoms, Bishop's voice stuttered as he described to jurors how he was in 'a bad state' at the time.

'By the time of my offence which I am convicted of I was in a very, very bad state,' Bishop said.

He explained that he had headed out intending to go to his brother's house to 'finish sticking up a satellite dish'.

But he said he noticed his brakes had been cut, 'not for the first time' since his acquittal, and he smashed his hand during an accident with the spanner as he tried to fix them.

'I lost my temper,' he said of his reaction to the injury. The pain of it just sent me into a wild temper, yes.'

He continued: 'I started going mad; screaming, shouting.

'I turned to throw the spanner and the victim was standing within arm's reach. I didn't see her coming at all before that.'

Bishop described how he then 'grabbed hold of her', adding that he accepts 'everything that's been said in this courtroom' about what happened next.

'I feel deeply ashamed,' he added.

When asked if his evidence in that second trial was the truth, he conceded: 'I didn't tell the truth in any way, shape or form.'

Bishop told jurors he had smoked cannabis for 'pain relief' for an injury to his left shoulder and had known Mr Fellows through playing football in the park.

Before his arrest for the murders, Bishop had been fined and given community orders for theft-related and driving offences.

He denies two counts of murder and the trial continues.

====== 1907 ========

ANOTHER DINGHY FULL OF 'IRANIAN' MIGRANTS IS PICKED UP OFF THE KENT COAST

The Home Office has been urged to take action after 86 migrants were picked up off the coast of Kent in just two weeks.

Some eight 'migrants' were picked up from a dinghy near Dover today, while 14 were detained on Thursday in two separate dinghies and a further 11 rescued by a French coastguard vessel.

Since November 3, there have now been 101 migrants - mostly claiming to be Iranian - who have been rescued or detained after being found in small boats or dinghies in UK waters in the Channel.

Tory MP for Dover Charlie Elphicke has now warned the French authorities and the Home Office must 'do more' to stop the crossings amid an unprecedented surge in recent weeks.

The eight migrants were brought into Dover after being picked up by the border force boat with the help of the french lifeboat, a french naval ship and the dover RNLI

Officials helped the group from the boat off the coast of Kent on Friday morning

101 migrants detained off the coast of the UK in less than one month Some 101 migrants have been picked up off the UK coast in less than one months. Here are the Channel incidents involving migrants on boats/RHIBs/dinghies since November 3: November 3: 15 picked up in two separate dinghies (8 in one and 7 near Dover. One off the coast near the port and the other close to the beach. November 9: Seven in a dinghy rescued two miles off Dover who dialled 999 to be rescued in stormy waters. November 13: 17 people including a woman and boy aged four found in a stolen French fishing boat which was intercepted as it came into the entrance of the marina at Dover. November 14: 24 found in one day. Nine on one RHIB, 10 crammed into a tiny fishing boat and five picked in a dinghy picked up by a tanker in the English Channel near Ramsgate and taken to Falmouth where the ship docked. November 16: Seven found in a dinghy at Samphire Hoe near Folkestone. November 18: Nine found on rocks at Folkestone after getting off a RHIB. November 22: 14 in two separate dinghies off Kent coast. November 23: Eight found off Dover * Migrants detected on Lorries: November 1: 21 Vietnamese found in back of a refrigerated lorry at Newhaven, November 13: Seven found in the back of a lorry at Dover. * Eurotunnel incident: 19.11.18: Migrant found dead under a bus at Eurotunnel terminal Folkestone.

A Border Force coastal patrol vessel was deployed after the group was sighted near Dover at about 7am this morning.

It brings the total of 86, mostly Iranians, have been caught by Border Force officials in just two weeks.

France has been accused of 'turning a blind eye' following a huge rise in the number of migrants entering Britain this month.

Mr Elphicke added: 'The Home Office say they have stepped up patrols in the South East - yet clearly not enough is being done.

'Even as winter sets in, these people remain determined to break into Britain. The numbers we are seeing are unprecedented and deeply concerning.

'It's clear that these crossings are being organised. The Home Office need to urgently step up efforts with the French to catch the crooks responsible.

'The French cannot just turn a blind eye and say this is a problem for Britain. Lives will be lost if this trafficking network is not stopped in its tracks.

'We need to see a more vessels patrolling the English Channel - and the Government must invest in more cutters and skilled officers at the Dover frontline.'

The migrants who arrived in the early hours of Thursday came in groups of seven on two dinghies.

The first group were intercepted by a patrol vessel off the Kent coast at 1.30am.

Police said the second group, who were spotted two and a half miles off Dover at 8.23am, were suffering from mild hypothermia. The engine of their dinghy was not powerful enough to make the 23-mile crossing unaided.

One possibility is that the group may have been dropped off in the dinghy under the cover of darkness from a larger vessel off the Kent coast.

It is the latest in a series of similar incidents which has seen children also being brought into the country.

A total of 33 boats have been reportedly stopped trying to cross the Channel this year - 20 of them since October 1.

That shows a hike from the 13 in the whole of last year, and 23 in 2016.

French officials believe gangs are telling migrants Britain's borders will be tightened once Brexit happens next March, so they must get into the country quicker.

A Border Force coastal patrol vessel was deployed after the group was sighted near Dover at about 7am this morning

Ingrid Parrot, a spokeswoman for the French maritime police, puts the 'worsening' situation down to the people smugglers - who can makes thousands of pounds per journey - using Brexit as bait to get more migrants over quicker.

It is claimed that crossing the Channel will become more difficult after Britain leaves the EU.

Ms Parrot said: 'We're dealing with a situation that's getting worse. We think they want to leave at all costs now because Brexit hasn't yet happened.'

French authorities say they have rescued more than 200 people this year.

Retired coastguard Andy Roberts expects there will be deaths to deal with as weather conditions become more extreme.

He said: 'This situation will go on and on and I expect there to be tragedies and deaths.

'If a boat is crossing they could just run them over in a total accident but they would not even know what they would have done.

'The numbers that are arriving are totally unprecedented. I imagine what has happened is the first few that arrived would have got a message back to say they've used a small boat and it's possible.

'They're all getting more confident as they're having more success. One of the reasons I believe we have not had a death yet is because they are mostly fit men arriving. We've had one child and a woman so far.'

The Homes Office said the group consisted of eight men all of whom presented themselves as Iranian

A Home Office spokesperson said: 'Border Force was contacted by HM Coastguard at around 7.15am.

'A Border Force coastal patrol vessel was deployed and intercepted a dinghy off the Kent Coast with eight people on board.

'The dinghy and those on board were brought into Dover where they were met by Border Force officers.

'The group consisted of eight men all of whom presented themselves as Iranian. On arrival all eight individuals were checked by ambulance staff but were found to be medically well.

'They will now be transferred to Immigration officials for interview.'

A HM Coastguard spokesman said: 'We can confirm we are assisting Border Force with suspected migrant activity but cannot comment further until the incident is complete.'

====== 1908 ========

NHS CHIEFS PROMISE A 'BONFIRE OF RED TAPE' IN A BID TO SAVE £320MILLION BY 2021

Health chiefs have demanded a major reduction in bureaucracy in a bid to save £320million a year by 2021.

Clinical commissioning groups have been ordered to share resources or even merge to save money.

The chief financial officer of each group, which decides how to spend NHS funds in each of 195 areas in England, was last night sent a letter demanding they reduce their administration costs by 20 per cent by 2021.

Clinical commissioning groups have been ordered to share resources or even merge to save money

The letter, written by Matthew Swindells, deputy chief executive of NHS England, said groups would be supported if they wanted to explore mergers.

Mr Swindells said: ‘As we approach the publication of the long-term plan for the NHS, it is important we continue to maximise the amount of funding available for direct patient care, which means challenging ourselves to ensure that management and administration functions are delivered in as efficient a way as possible.

‘NHS England and NHS Improvement, as part of the joint working initiative, have committed to a further targeted reduction of our administration costs limit of 20 per cent by 2020/21.

'We are now asking CCGs to deliver the same level of reduction – 20 per cent – by 2020/21.’

He said savings could be made ‘by working more closely with other organisations’.

CCGs replaced primary care trusts in 2013.

====== 1909 ========

POLICE SEIZE SWEET SHOP'S ENTIRE STOCK AFTER DRUGS RAID

A sweet shop has had all of its confectionery seized by police after drugs were found on the premises.

Flying saucers, humbugs and liquorice flyers were just some of the treats confiscated from The Convenience Store near Stanley in County Durham.

The sweets were taken after police discovered a quantity of white powder, thought to be amphetamine, during a planned raid.

Flying saucers, humbugs and liquorice flyers were just some of the treats confiscated

The sweets were confiscated from The Convenience Store near Stanley in County Durham

The sweets were taken after police found white powder, thought to be amphetamine

Officers from Stanley Neighbourhood Policing Team, led by community beat officer PC Gary Smith and supported by a dog team from the Cleveland and Durham Specialist Operations Unit, swooped at lunchtime.

Durham Police say they took the sweets 'as a precautionary measure to ensure contaminated sweets did not find their way into the hands of children'.

A home in Stanley was also searched where officers found a quantity of cannabis, along with drug equipment and a large quantity of cash.

A 50-year-old local woman was arrested on suspicion of possession with intent to supply and a 56-year-old local man was arrested on suspicion of being concerned in the supply of controlled drugs.

Both were taken to Durham City Police Station for questioning. Officers say items seized during the operation are now being examined and the probe is continuing.

The sweet shop had all of its confectionery seized by police after drugs were found on the site

Community beat officer PC Gary Smith led the operation which swooped at lunchtime today

Some of the removed stock from the sweet shop in Stanley following the police raid today

Sergeant Dave Clarke of Stanley Police, who led today's operation, said: 'This is a shop which sold sweets to children.

'Families with children were regular customers at the premises, which is right in the heart of the village and straight opposite a nursery.

'We have confiscated the contents of the shop because we couldn't take the risk that some of those loose sweets might become contaminated with a potentially dangerous substance.'

He added: 'Today's operation shows that when the local community gives us information about the supply of drugs, then we will take decisive action.

'Hopefully, today's operation will also have left local drug dealers with a sour taste in their mouths.'

Anyone with information about the supply of drugs in their community is urged to ring Durham Police on 101 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

====== 1910 ========

PICTURED: NHS WORKER, 42, WHO WAS STABBED BY PATIENT IN AYR

The hospital worker stabbed in the car park of a drug rehabilitation unit yesterday has been named locally as 42-year-old Donna Maxwell.

The community support worker was attacked outside Ailsa Hospital in Ayr before she staggered back inside the building to raise the alarm.

Police closed off the hospital as officers searched for the female attacker. Dog handlers and a police helicopter were called to the scene to assist in the hunt.

Ms Maxwell was taken to Ayr Hospital where her condition was last night described as serious but stable.

Hospital community support worker Donna Maxwell was stabbed outside a hospital yesterday

Patients and staff at Ailsa Hospital (pictured today) in North Ayrshire, Scotland, were told to stay in their rooms, while a police helicopter circulated overhead

A source told the Scottish Sun: 'The knife was still lodged in poor Donna when she came back into the hospital.'

Police yesterday issued a plea for information about a woman seen leaving the area shortly after the attack.

Officers later said a woman arrested over a separate matter shortly after the attack was 'of interest to the inquiry'.

The hospital houses an addiction rehabilitation centre and also offers mental health services.

A former employee who lives nearby said: 'I was walking through the woods behind the hospital when the stabbing happened. I didn't know what was going on at the time until a policeman came up to me and asked if I'd seen anyone in the grounds around the time it happened.

'He told me there had been someone stabbed in the car park and that the place was on lockdown. The police helicopter suddenly appeared overhead and the dog unit also arrived.

'I heard it was something to do with the addiction services clinic. They have a drop-in service at around 10am so it's likely something happened there.

'Police were crawling all over the place all morning and in the afternoon.' Police Scotland said it increased patrols in the area in a bid to reassure patients, staff and the public.

The hospital was reopened at 1pm but the car park outside the addiction services unit was being guarded by police last night.

Two officers were also posted outside the accident and emergency department of Ayr Hospital throughout the afternoon.

Superintendent Brian Shaw said 'I am particularly keen to hear from anyone who was in the area around 10am and has information about a woman who was seen leaving the area shortly after the 42-year-old woman was stabbed.

'She is described as being around 5ft 2in to 5ft 3in, slight build and pale complexion. She was wearing a dark woolly hat and a dark jacket.

'Officers remain at the hospital and we have increased highvisibility patrols in the area to reassure patients, staff and the wider public.

'Officers are reviewing CCTV and carrying out door-to-door inquiries in the area in an effort to identify the woman responsible.' NHS Ayrshire and Arran associate director Billy McClean said: 'NHS Ayrshire and Arran is aware of an incident in the grounds of Ailsa Hospital this morning.

'We are assisting Police Scotland with their investigations, and to ensure the safety of staff, patients and visitors. We are unable to comment further at this time.'

Officers were today hunting for the culprit and no one was allowed out of the hospital site

In a statement, the Royal College of Nursing said: 'Our thoughts are with the woman and her family and colleagues. The safety of patients and staff must be the priority at this time.'

Former workers told of fears among staff that cutbacks could potentially leave nurses and other employees vulnerable at the hospital.

One local, who worked as a psychiatric nurse at Ailsa and other hospitals in Ayrshire and Arran for 34 years, said the attack may have happened due to a lack of mental health facilities.

The retired 66-year-old, who did not wish to be named, said: 'There's not many nurses at Ailsa now since most of the buildings are used for community teams who use it as their base.' Ayr MSP John Scott raised the attack during First Minister's Questions at Holyrood.

In response, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said: 'The health secretary has been able to advise me and our understanding is, let me stress this is our understanding, that injuries sustained by a nurse are not life-threatening.'

====== 1911 ========

HUMAN BONES AT VATICAN EMBASSY ARE NOT THOSE OF MISSING TEENAGE GIRLS

A poster calling for information on Emanuela Orlandi, who disappeared aged 15 from a Rome street in 1983

The human bones discovered at a Vatican embassy last month do not belong to either of two Italian girls who went missing in the 1980s, it is believed, foiling hopes that a 35-year-old mystery was about to be solved.

Teenagers Emanuela Orlandi and Mirella Gregori went missing in the space of 40 days in Rome in 1983.

The skeleton discovered at the Vatican embassy in Rome on October 31 sparked fresh interest in the case of the missing 15-year-olds.

But early tests on the bones have revealed they belonged to a man, a judicial source said.

In addition carbon dating on the bones showed they were older than 1964 and could not belong to the missing girls.

An Italian bishop said the find had 'nothing to do' with the disappearance of the two girls, Crux Now reported.

The two girls' disappearance has sparked a range of theories over the years, especially surrounding Emanuela's case and its links to the Vatican.

Cold War politics, the attempted assassination of Pope John Paul II, alleged Vatican links to the Italian criminal underworld and claims of satanic orgies by prelates have all been blamed for the girl's disappearance.

Emanuela, who was last seen on a street in Rome, disappeared after leaving her family's Vatican City apartment to go to a music lesson in Rome. Her father was a member of the Holy See police force.

One theory suggests she was kidnapped by hostage-takers trying to have Mehmet Ali Agca, who shot the Pope in St Peter's Square in 1981, freed from prison.

Shortly after she disappeared the police are claimed to have received anonymous calls, which said Emanuela would be freed if the Turkish gunman was released.

Rome's chief prosecutor was called in to investigate the latest find but Emanuela's brother played down hopes of finding her body, saying the family had suffered disappointments in the past.

He said earlier this month: 'I was amazed the Vatican police immediately came up with the idea that it could be the remains of Emanuela and Mirella Gregori. How did they make the connection?'

The skeleton and bone fragments were unearthed during work on an annex to the Holy See's embassy compound in Rome.

The Vatican did not mention the missing girls but Italian media immediately linked her unsolved disappearance to the discovery of the bones.

The Rome embassy is in the upscale residential neighborhood of Parioli, near the city's Villa Borghese museum.

The last major twist in the case came in 2012, when forensic police exhumed the body of a reputed mobster from the crypt of a Roman basilica in hopes of finding Emanuela's remains too.

However, that search turned up no link.

More recently, a leading Italian investigative journalist caused a sensation when he published a five-page document last year that had been stolen from a locked Vatican cabinet that suggested the Holy See had been involved in Orlandi's disappearance.

The Vatican immediately branded the document a fake, though it never explained what it was doing in the Vatican cabinet.

The document was purportedly written by a cardinal and listed supposed expenses used for Orlandi's upkeep after she disappeared.

The Vatican has repeatedly maintained that it has co-operated fully with police investigating the Orlandi case.

====== 1912 ========

INQUIRY HEARS HARROWING 999 CALL OF GRENFELL TOWER MOTHER WHO DIED ALONGSIDE TWO-YEAR-OLD SON

A 999 call handler has admitted she may have offered false hope to Grenfell Tower residents who believed a helicopter was coming to rescue them.

London Fire Brigade control room officer Christine Howson was responding to the desperate pleas of trapped a resident on the night of June 14 blaze.

Hashim Kedir, 44, his wife Nura Jemal, 35, daughter Firdaws Hashim, 12, and sons Yahya Hashim, 13, and Yaqub Hashim, six, were among the 72 people who died in last year's June 14 fire.

Nura Jemal, 35, died alongside her husband and three children in last year's June 14 fire. She had been in a flat where a caller asked London Fire Brigade control room officer Christine Howson whether a helicopter might be on its way

Yaqub Hashim, six, (left) and Firdaws Hashim, 12, (right) died alongside their parents and brother in the devastating blaze. It emerged today that a 999 call handler may have told someone in their flat a helicopter was on its way to rescue them

Transcripts of emergency calls made from their flat on the high-rise's 22nd floor were shown at a public inquiry into the blaze today.

A caller asked: 'Could you get a chopper or something? Could you get a helicopter or something to get us out?'

To which Ms Howson responded: 'There's one there, okay, all right? The fire brigade are on their way now. They're making their way.'

The devastating blaze on June 14 last year killed 72 people. A public inquiry is underway where harrowing 999 transcripts are being shown - including that of a mother who died alongside her two-year-old son in the blaze

Ms Howson was asked at the inquiry if this might have offered 'the hope or expectation that they would be rescued by helicopter'.

'Possibly, yes,' she said. 'It possibly could have done that. That was not my intention though.'

The officer was taken through several 999 calls she handled on the night of the fire and questioned about the advice she gave.

'Things that should've been happening, weren't happening. We should've... these people should've been rescued and we weren't able to get to them,' she said.

'The policies we had, which had always worked in the past, they weren't working.'

The revelation came on the same day a harrowing 999 call made by a mother who died alongside her two-year-old son in the fire was shown at the public inquiry.

Zainab Deen, 32, and toddler Jeremiah both died after becoming trapped on the 14th floor of the burning high-rise in west London.

In the devastating call, Ms Deen can be heard saying 'I feel like jumping' and 'can anybody come and rescue me' as the flames spread around her flat.

Zainab Deen (left), 32, and toddler Jeremiah (right) both died after becoming trapped on the 14th floor of the burning high-rise in west London. In a harrowing 999 call shown at a public inquiry into the blaze today, it was revealed how Ms Deen pleaded with emergency services for help

The world watched in horror as the block went up in flames on June 14, 2017. The inferno ended up killing 72 people and a public inquiry into the incident is currently underway

London Fire Brigade control room officer Yvonne Adams was the one answering Ms Deen's questions.

The transcript showed how the desperate mother asked: 'How can I get out of here?'

Before continuing: 'I have a child, I have a child. Help me.'

She later said: 'There is fire. There is fire coming from the door. I feel like jumping, I feel like jumping.

'Can anybody come? Can anybody come and rescue me? Can anybody come and rescue me?'

The inquiry earlier heard that Ms Deen begged to join her dead son before herself perishing in the blaze.

Ms Adams, who has 45 years' experience, told the inquiry she took more than 40 calls on the night of the fire.

'It just went mad,' she said. 'There was so much happening, it was just horrendous.'

In a statement, the officer recalled the moment a colleague showed her a picture of Grenfell Tower.

'I could not believe it was on fire, the whole building. I thought to myself 'Oh my God, these people are dead',' she said.

'How could they get out? I felt pure shock.'

The public inquiry into the Grenfell Tower fire (pictured on June 14, 2017) today revealed harrowing 999 transcripts made by people trapped in the burning tower block

The inquiry earlier heard harrowing evidence of Ms Deen and Jeremiah's final moments from firefighter Christopher Batcheldor.

He told how he reassured the frantic mother, who identified herself as Zenay, that they would be rescued after being handed a phone by her brother, Francis.

He said he heard the little boy crying from the beginning of the call and said he was 'gagging' to hear the door kicked in by fire crews.

After about half an hour, the toddler stopped coughing and crying.

In a written statement to the inquiry, Nr Batcheldor said: 'Zenay was crying 'My boy's dead'.

'She said 'I want to be with my son'.

'I said 'Don't talk like that. We are coming for you. Don't give up'.

'I then passed the phone back to Francis and said 'Tell her you love her and that you are waiting for her. Tell her to keep fighting'.'

The inquiry heard details of other 999 calls made by people trapped in the burning tower block.

In one made from Flat 193 on the 22nd floor, where two families died, the caller said: 'It's full of smoke. The fire from the other side is over our building.'

London Fire Brigade control room officer Yvonne Adams has described dealing with 999 calls that evening as 'horrendous'. She told the inquiry that she and her colleagues did not have enough time to deal with each call the night of the blaze

Helicopter footage shows the blaze racing along the outside of the building towards the roof. The public inquiry yesterday heard how the cladding 'crown' installed on top of Grenfell Tower 'to make it look nice' was instrumental in the deadly fire spreading

Ms Adams told them: 'You make the decision whether you think you need to leave or not, all right?'

They decided to stay put, and Nadia Choucair, 33, her husband, Bassem Choukair, 40, their three children, Mierna, 13, Fatima, 11, and Zainab, three, and grandmother, Sirria, 60, all died.

Ms Adams advised another caller from Flat 182 on the 21st floor - home to the El-Wahabi family, who also died in the blaze, to get out, but was told: 'We can't.'

She said: 'Get wet towels, wet sheets, anything, try and get out of the building. As you leave your flat think where the nearest staircase is and head for it and run, all right?

'OK, I'm going to have to leave you. Sorry, we have got so many calls coming in. Just try to get out of the building.'

The caller said: 'You can't leave.'

The flat's residents - parents Faouzia and Abdulaziz El-Wahabi, 42 and 52, and their children, Yasin, 20, Huda, 16, and Mehdi, eight - all died.

Ms Adams told of the difficulty in having to end the call, saying: '(I) just didn't have the luxury of time with these people. It's just appalling.

'It was just dreadful that you just had to leave them and just answer another call.'

She told the inquiry: 'I think the thing we didn't have on Grenfell night was that luxury of time to give to callers and we all have to live with that.

'We were having to spend not as much time as we normally would. It was just horrendous.

'We were just trying to get through as many calls as possible to pass those flat numbers to the crews and the scene for them to go and rescue them, and in some cases that didn't work out.'

====== 1913 ========

BOOHOO BLASTED BY STUDENT WHOSE WHITE BODYSUIT ARRIVED WITH A BLOOD STAIN ON THE CROTCH

A disgusted student has blasted Boohoo after she claims she bought a supposedly new bodysuit only to discover a 'period blood' stain in the crotch.

Jasmin Richardson, 18, from Bracknell, Berkshire, was pulling the size 12 bodysuit up her legs when she spotted the bloody stains and quickly whipped it off in horror earlier this month.

The fashion-conscious teen claims that the £12 item, now on sale for £6, didn't have a hygiene sticker on it and despite complaining numerous times on social media she has yet to hear back from the online giant or receive a refund.

Student Jasmin Richardson, 18, from Bracknell, Berkshire, pictured here with boyfriend Kai, was horrified when a size 12 bodysuit from online retailer Boohoo arrived with blood stains on the crotch

The fashion-conscious teen ordered the 'slinky square neck bodysuit' in white and a size from the online fashion retailer earlier this month. She quickly whipped it off when she made the grim discovery

Jasmin describes the bloodstained bodysuit above as 'really gross and disgusting' and believes it to be period blood

'I went to try it on over my tights and as I was pulling them up I noticed the hygiene sticker was missing and that something was on it,' explained the fashionista.

'I didn't actually manage to put it on as I remember thinking "what's that?" When I had a closer look I could see what it was, it was disgusting.'

The stylish student thinks she knows exactly what the blood stain is, too.

'I think it's period blood for sure,' she said. 'It's really gross and disgusting. They've obviously not checked their refunds, it's so unhygienic.

'I don't know anything about the person whose blood it is, they could have anything, it's so gross and the health implications could have been really serious.'

Jasmin says she messaged Boohoo regrading the dirty item which she claims arrived without a hygiene sticker

Jasmin ordered the item, now reduced to £6, earlier this month to take on an upcoming family trip to Cuba.

'I order from Boohoo quite a bit especially when they have an offer on,' said the 18-year-old. 'I ordered a few things including the white bodysuit - everything else was fine.'

'When the delivery arrived I was excited because I was supposed to be taking it on holiday with me to Cuba, but instead it was disgusting. I took a picture as I knew I was going to send it back and complain about it.'

Despite complaining on social media, Jasmin says she is yet to hear back from the online giant or receive a refund for the product, which is now reduced to £6

Now, Jasmin claims that despite contacting Boohoo multiple times through social media, she has yet to receive a response or a refund.

'I private messaged them twice and then friends said to tweet publicly and they might respond, they didn't get back to me at all,' Jasmin said.

'I've sent it back and I'm really angry about it. I'd like an apology and my money back as well. It's definitely put me off shopping there in future.'

A Boohoo spokesman told FEMAIL: 'We are in direct communication with the customer in relation to this matter. We have offered a full refund and a gesture of good will.

'Furthermore, we are conducting a full investigation to understand how this could have happened. The warehouse team do have policy’s and procedure in place are working to ensure that an incident of this type does not happen again.'

====== 1914 ========

SAMSUNG BOSS APOLOGIZES OVER SICKNESSES AND DEATHS OF SOME WORKERS

Samsung Electronics has apologised for illnesses and deaths of some of its workers, saying it failed to create a safe working environment at its computer chip and display factories.

The announcement by the South Korean technology giant came weeks after the company and a group representing ailing Samsung workers agreed to accept compensation terms suggested by a mediator and end a highly-publicised standoff that went on for more than a decade.

The company's apology was part of the settlement.

Kinam Kim, president of Samsung's device solutions division, said the company failed to 'sufficiently manage health threats' at its semiconductor and liquid crystal display manufacturing lines.

Kinam Kim, President & CEO, Device Solutions, Samsung Electronics bows in apology in Seoul, South Korea, today

Hwang Yu-mi at home, a few months before her death from leukemia on March 6, 2007

As detailed in Associated Press reporting over the past decade, dozens of employees who worked there have experienced grave illnesses such as leukemia and brain tumors.

'We offer our sincere apology to our workers who have suffered with illnesses and their families,' Kim said during a news conference in Seoul, which was also attended by activists and relatives of the workers.

But while cutting a deal and loosely admitting to lapses in safety standards, Samsung has yet to fully acknowledge its workplace environment as the direct cause of the illnesses.

The standoff began in 2007 when taxi driver Hwang Sang-gi refused to accept a settlement after his 23-year-old daughter died of leukemia after working at a Samsung factory.

Kinam Kim, President & CEO, Device Solutions, Samsung Electronics apologises in Seoul, South Korea today

Hwang's efforts to clarify the cause of Yu-mi's death and hold Samsung responsible for problems related to working conditions galvanized a broader movement to hold businesses and the government accountable for safety lapses in the chip and display industries, which use huge amounts of chemicals.

'No apology would be enough when considering the deception and humiliation we experienced (from Samsung) over the past 11 years, the pain of suffering from occupational diseases, the pain of losing loved ones,' Hwang said at the news conference.

'But I take today's apology as a promise from Samsung Electronics,' to improve the safety of its workplaces, he added.

Hwang Sang-gi, right, father of former Samsung semiconductor factory worker Hwang Yu-mi who died from leukemia in 2007, Kinam Kim, left, President & CEO of Samsung Electronics Device Solutions and Kim Ji-hyung, center, a chairman of the Mediation Committee pose for the media after signing the documents in Seoul

According to the settlement, Samsung will compensate for various illnesses of employees who have worked at its chip and LCD factories since 1984, including as much as 150 million won ($132,000) for leukemia.

The compensation also covers miscarriages and congenital illnesses of the workers' children such as child cancer.

Since 2008, dozens of workers have sought occupational safety compensation from the government.

Few won compensation, mostly after years of court battles. Half the remaining claims were rejected and half remain under review.

Families of the victims often have depleted their savings and sold their homes to pay hospital bills. Some workers end up incapacitated and unable to work.

====== 1915 ========

PROLIFIC NOVELIST TELLS THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST FROM BIRTH TO CRUCIFIXION IN JUST 346 WORDS

Archer donated The Son of God story to Cancer Research UK and will appear in one of their Christmas cards this year

For a novelist as prolific as Jeffrey Archer, his latest piece of prose may at first appear rather a slim effort: After all, it is only 346 words long.

But, as its title The Son Of God suggests, it still manages to have a plot as intriguing as any of his bestsellers – and a subject arguably more profound than anything he has ever tackled before.

It tells the story of Jesus Christ from birth to crucifixion and beyond, effectively a reworking of the Bible’s New Testament in ten pithy paragraphs.

Novelist Jeffrey Archer, pictured at a charity ball last week, donated his story of the life of Jesus to Cancer Research UK. The 346 word piece is printed inside one of their charity Christmas cards this year

What’s more, it depicts Jesus as the manager of a football team called The Disciples – ‘not one of them a star, in fact the twelfth man rather let the side down by accepting a transfer fee of thirty pieces of silver to play for the opposition’ – that ends up being relegated.

In what might be seen as a parable for our times, Archer takes a sideswipe at shallow 21st century notions of fame and poses the question how, without recourse to focus groups, advertising gurus, spin doctors or social media, and with ‘no box sets recording any of his miracles’, Jesus is ‘still the best-known celebrity on Earth’ more than 2,000 years after his death.

The former MP, 78, has donated the story to Cancer Research UK and it is printed inside one of their charity Christmas cards this year.

Archer has been invited by Cancer Research UK to read The Son Of God for the first time at their carol concert at St Mary’s Marylebone in London on December 19

It is a cause close to his heart. He had prostate cancer in 2013 and has since bravely talked about being rendered impotent by the surgery he had to treat it. His wife Dame Mary, 73, overcame a form of bladder cancer in 2011.

He told the Daily Mail: ‘I wanted to write a piece that would not only appeal to my generation, but I hoped would inspire a younger generation, obsessed with football and celebrity. It took me several drafts before I’d completed the final version.’

As for what drove him to write it in the first place, Archer recalled a ‘piece of prose that had been written in the 17th century’ which he saw when he attended a carol concert at St Michael’s Church in Belgravia, London, last year.

He said: ‘It inspired me to want to write a modern version. I was delighted when Cancer Research UK chose the text for one of their Christmas cards, not least because my wife was successfully treated for bladder cancer some years ago, while I have fully recovered from prostate cancer.

‘Cancer affects the lives of so many, as Mary and I are so aware, and is particularly poignant at this time of year, which is all about spending valuable time with your family.’

The £3.99 card, with a gold and white nativity scene on its cover, is exclusively available now in Cancer Research UK’s 600 shops nationwide

Archer has written 35 books, including works of non-fiction such as the three volumes of prison diaries following his 2001 conviction for perjury and perverting the course of justice, and they have sold 275million copies.

He has shown an enthusiasm for biblical themes before, titling one of his novels Kane And Abel in an echo of the sons of Adam and Eve, Cain and Abel, from the book of Genesis. His latest novel, Heads You Win, was published this month.

The £3.99 card, with a gold and white nativity scene on its cover, is exclusively available now in Cancer Research UK’s 600 shops nationwide and here.

Archer has donated all profits from the card to Cancer Research UK. He has been invited by Cancer Research UK to read The Son Of God for the first time at their carol concert at St Mary’s Marylebone in London on December 19.

====== 1916 ========

ACTRESS PLAYING ACTOR'S DEAD MOTHER IN £50 CHRISTMAS FILM HAILED AS BETTER THAN THE JOHN LEWIS AD

An award winning young actress has been unmasked as the voice of a mother speaking to her son from beyond the grave in a tear-jerking Christmas viral video.

Natalie Martins, who lives in Surrey, can be heard on the short film that was made for just £50 and shared online in response to John Lewis' big budget production.

The fictional tale, called Love is a Gift, by videographer Phil Beastall, has racked up more than six million views and has won a legion of fans with its emotional message.

The 32-year-old's video shows a man - played by actor Chris Ilston - ticking off the days to Christmas, seemingly in anticipation of festivities and presents.

Natalie Martins, left, can be heard on the short film that was made for just £50 and shared online in response to John Lewis' big budget production. Right, actor Chris Ilston who stars in the budget production

Instead, on the day, he opens up a cassette box - an annual tradition - and listens to a tape of his tragic mother's final Christmas message from beyond the grave.

As the video racked up more and more views, Ms Martins posted on Facebook:

'All the feels around the nation! Thanks to everyone who is sharing our short film.

'A special film with a special message.

'Congratulations Phil Beastall on this achievement - this didn't happen by chance or sheer luck - this happened because you are a talented filmmaker and a wonderful storyteller.'

She wrote on Twitter today: 'A short film I recorded the #voiceover for called #loveisagift is getting quite a bit of attention. It just goes to show the power of a beautiful honest and emotive narrative.

'Someone #hirephilbeastall already!!!'

The 2minute 27 second fictional tale shows a man ticking off the days to Christmas, seemingly in anticipation of festivities and presents

Instead, on the day, he opens up a cassette box - an annual tradition - and listens to a tape of his tragic mother's final Christmas message from beyond the grave

'Good work deserves to be seen - you deserve this.'

Ms Martins has starred in seven feature films, 14 short films, and a number of TV shows and adverts.

Since the emotional tale went viral, Mr Beastall has been inundated with messages from fans who claim the video could have been used instead of the expensive Elton John-themed John Lewis advert.

Others have suggested the store hire Mr Beastall to make their Christmas advert for 2019.

The short film racked up more than 6m views on Facebook this week after its creator, Phil Beastall, posted it in response to the store's big-budget production

Mr Beastall, from Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire, made the video in 2014 but was inspired to share it again now after seeing the Elton John advert on TV. Above, tapes the ad's character has listened to over the year

Speaking to Good Morning Britain today Mr Beastall said he came up with the idea for the film, which was shot in 2014, when on a run.

He said: 'To be honest, it was just a last minute decision really. I'm a bit of a kind of frustrated film maker and I wanted to get a Christmas film out there.

'It was just when I was on a run on a Sunday and I just came up with this idea and I just really wanted to create something that would resonate with people as I thought especially in today's society we kind of just need that reminder that we are not really defined by our careers and materialism, actually family does come first.

'So ultimately I just wanted to create something that was emotive and what resonated with people and maybe they would turn to their wives, husbands, kids whatever and give them a cuddle and say 'I love you'.'

Mr Beastall, a professional videographer, dedicated the emotive video to the selflessness of his partner of ten years Claire Higley, the mother of their children Ethan, Eliza and Zara. (The couple are pictured together)

Thousands of commenters praised the video online and admitted that it had reduced them to tears.

Melanie Thomas wrote: 'In tear. I have no words except John Lewis, tell your advertising team they [are] sacked. Stop plugging Elton John's song and get this man to do your adverts.'

Lisa Darling said: 'Best advert ever, maybe John Lewis should pay him a million.'

The response was so overwhelming that Mr Beastall conceded defeat in trying to respond to all the comments because the video attracted so much attention.

Mr Beastall, from Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire, said yesterday: 'People seem to like my film because it's the story that shines through.

'This says EVERYTHING about Christmas': Reactions to Xmas ad shot on a shoestring

You don't always need a huge budget, just an impactfull narrative that gets the message across.

'I think there's a bit of a revolution going on in the advertising industry. People no longer want to be overtly sold something which makes our job as video producers a lot harder because we have to sell indirectly.

'But the good thing about this is that when selling to consumers, we can focus on selling lifestyles and indirectly sell the products or services that fit that lifestyle.

'A lot of people are struggling financially so to hear that millions is being spent on these campaigns isn't sitting well with people.

'People have been saying that it's just an opportunity to celebrate Elton John and promote his new film.

'Having said that, I enjoyed John Lewis's advert. I liked the fact that a success story like Elton's can start with something as simple as receiving a piano. But if John Lewis knocked on my door tomorrow and said would you want to make next year's film, I would obviously snap it up in an instant.'

Most touchingly, he received messages of thanks from parents who have lost a child and also children whose parents are no longer alive as the video had had a positive impact on them.

Mr Beastall said: 'A lot of people are saying how it has touched them and made them feel that they can cope a little bit more this Christmas, which is amazing. I never expected that at all. To think people are getting so much from my film. I am blown away.'

Mr Beastall dedicated the emotive video to the selflessness of his partner of ten years Claire Higley, the mother of their children Ethan, Eliza and Zara.

The man in the video has to finally let go of his mother on the most family-orientated of days and Mr Beastall wanted to celebrate the life that has rewarded him with his wife and mother to his children.

John Lewis has declined to comment.

====== 1917 ========

HUGE FIRE TORCHES MARQUEE IN WESTON-SUPER-MARE WHERE BANKSY BUILT HIS DISMALAND THEME PARK

A huge fire erupted tonight at a seaside attraction which was once used by Banksy for a dystopian 'bemusement park'.

Six fire engines grappled with the blaze at The Tropicana, a disused lido in Weston-super-Mare, Somerset.

A marquee was in flames at the site, which is currently being used as an ice rink for the festive season, before the blaze was put out about 20 minutes after crews arrived.

A spokesman for the fire service said about 120 people had to be cleared from the rink and surrounding area, including staff and families with children, while one woman was taken to hospital to be treated for smoke inhalation.

Firefighters from across the area were attending the blaze at The Tropicana in Weston-super-Mare, Somerset

Pictures shared on social media showed smoke pouring from the venue which is currently being used as an ice rink

Street artist Banksy used the site for his sinister theme park exhibition Dismaland, which he described as a 'family theme park unsuitable for children'.

Dismaland opened at the derelict seaside lido in August 2015 and sold out every day of its five-week run.

Hundreds waited in line for hours to see what was described as a 'festival of art, amusements and entry-level anarchism'.

The controversial 2.5-acre attraction featured a fairytale castle and a boat pond full of asylum seekers.

It also included a likeness of Jimmy Savile, two ballet-performing juggernauts and an anarchist training camp running classes in how to break into bus billboards.

After closing in September 2015 Dismaland was dismantled and sent to Calais to become a shelter for migrants.

The ice rink said tonight: 'We regret to announce that there has been a fire at Icescape at the Tropicana. All sessions tonight have been cancelled.'

Replying to one customer, they said the fire had been 'all contained'.

Among the works of art on display in Banksy's theme park were two that showed the Disney stylized versions of the princesses Ariel (pictured) and Cinderella

Big Rig Jig, an artwork by Mike Ross, on display at Dismaland during its five-week appearance on the Somerset coast in 2015

South Western Ambulance Service said they had been told by a caller that a food van was on fire, while the town council said the blaze had been contained to the Bare Grills kitchen.

A fire service spokesman said the fire is believed to have been caused accidentally but had no further details.

The attraction is the UK's largest covered winter ice rink, according to its website.

It is described as a 'spectacular winter wonderland, where friends and families can skate on the UK's largest covered winter ice rink, enjoy some delicious festive food and drinks, visit Santa's Grotto and much more'.

North Somerset Council owns the Tropicana and its spokesman said it is 'extremely thankful' nobody was injured.

Its deputy leader Elfan Ap Rees said: 'Great shame for Icescape but main building OK.'

====== 1918 ========

SCHOOLBOY, 13, COLLAPSED AND DIED AFTER TAKING HEROIN HE FOUND IN A BAG IN WOODS WITH FRIENDS

Joshua Clark died after snorting a drug he found in a bag, an inquest has heard

A 13-year-old boy tragically died after snorting brown powder he and a friend found in woods, an inquest has heard.

Joshua Clark fell unconscious and was later found to have heroin in his system after discovering the bag of powder in Bramcote, near Nottingham last February.

An inquest this week heard Joshua 'didn't know what he was doing' and was 'follower' who would 'copy his friends'.

The coroner was told Joshua and his friend found the bag of powder on his way to a house and they reportedly snorted the substance while watching a film.

Joshua later fell unconscious and was rushed to hospital, where he died two days later, NottinghamshireLive reported.

His friend also suffered a cardiac arrest but was saved by medics and later returned home.

Heroin was found in both boys' systems, a pathologist said, and cannabis was found in Joshua's system.

Joshua's grieving grandmother Rosemary Jackson, 60, described the 'cheeky' youngster, who would visit her every day for a cheese and salad cream sandwich, as 'lovely, kind and caring'.

The scene in Bramcote, near Nottingham last February after Joshua tragically died

Tributes to the teenager were left at the scene by devastated friends and family

Mrs Jackson, who rushed to the house where Joshua was found unconscious, said: 'I did not feel he was going to pull through when I saw him in that house.

'I was told his heart had stopped for six minutes and it was unlikely he would survive.

'Joshua was a loving and caring child and he lived life to the full, even though he was 13 when he died.

'He came to see me every day - he had a cheese and salad cream sandwich, a bottle of pop and a packet of crisps and would say: 'Have you got a pound, nana?'

'He was a lovely lad and loved by so many people. I am broken. I just need to take it one day at a time.'

Joshua's family rushed to his friend's home when they heard he had fallen ill.

Detective Constable Martine Smith told the inquest: 'I have been told the boys snorted brown powder in that room.'

She added: 'I don't believe the boys realised what they were taking because of what happened thereafter. I do not think they knew what they were doing.'

His auntie Marie Smith, 33, from Ilkeston, Derbyshire, told the inquest that Joshua had been suffering with sight problems and was concerned about how he would be viewed by his peers.

Ms Smith said: 'He wanted this big group of friends. He was a follower and he would do anything that other people would do.'

On hearing about his sight loss, Ms Smith said that he would call himself 'an outcast' and was worried that 'no one is going to love me.'

Rosemary Jackson (left), 60, pictured with Melvin Robinson outside The Council House in Nottingham after the inquest into the death of her grandson, Joshua Clark

Ms Smith added: 'I always tried to pick him up.'

Assistant coroner Tanyka Rawden, sitting at Nottingham's Council House, recorded a verdict of 'drug-related' death.

A woman later admitted allowing children to smoke cannabis at her house and was given a curfew.

Family and friends were left devastated by Joshua's death last year, with scores of people leaving floral tributes at the scene.

His uncle, Martin Smith, wrote on Facebook at the time: 'Worst day of my life my nephew's gone I am so heart broken words cannot describe how I feel I love you Josh Clark sleep tight little one.

'Never in my life would I of thought my little innocent nephew would pass away in front of my eyes.

'I feel this will effect me for the rest of my life and hopefully this never happens again.

'Keep your family close and appreciate every last second with them because tomorrow they could be gone xx'

The medical cause of death was brain injury through hypoventilation, also known as respiratory depression, due to opiate toxicity.

His auntie Marie Smith, 33, from Ilkeston, Derbyshire, told the inquest that Joshua had been suffering with sight problems and was concerned about how he would be viewed by his peers.

====== 1919 ========

SPEEDING DRIVER WHO KILLED WOMAN IN CRASH WHILE TRYING TO ESCAPE POLICE JAILED

Brandon Daniels (pictured) lost control of the stolen Audi A3 during a police chase and rammed into a VW Golf at 72mph in a 30 mph zone

A speeding driver who rammed a stolen Audi into another vehicle as he tried to escape from police has been jailed for more than six years.

Brandon Daniels, 20, lost control of the stolen Audi A3 during a police chase and rammed into a VW Golf at 72mph in a 30 mph zone.

Sarah Giles, 20, was a passenger in the Golf and was sent 'flying into the air' and died in hospital as a result of 'multiple traumatic injuries'.

Police were carrying out a routine patrol when they spotted the £23,000 Audi before pursuing it along a Birmingham road on July 29.

The black Audi had already crashed once before it lost control and rammed into the car containing Ms Giles, her boyfriend Connor Donnelly and friend Dalton Banks at around 8.30pm.

Daniels, who had no driving licence, was arrested at the scene after being chased by locals as police tended to the injured.

Officers found footage of Daniels on his phone driving at speeds of 140mph while friends laughed in the background after seizing his phone.

Daniels, of Kingstanding, previously admitted causing death by dangerous driving and two counts of causing serious injury by dangerous driving.

He was today jailed for six years and six months and banned from driving for nine years and three months at Birmingham Crown Court.

Sarah Giles (pictured) was described as 'loving' in court by her parents

The Golf was sent flying into the air and flipped over many times before smashing into the wall of a home, the court heard.

Mr Donnelly and Mr Banks were both seriously injured and were in a coma for a number of days in hospital.

The court also heard heartbreaking victim impact statements from Miss Giles' family.

Her mum Sharon Giles said: 'It did not fully hit me until I identified her lifeless body in the mortuary.

'I felt numb and paralysed by grief. Her life was horrifically cut short.

'She is the last and first thought of my mind each day. I would give anything to change places with her. My appetite has gone.

'Food seems unimportant. I feel a great emptiness inside me. My daughter loved life.

'She had plans to travel the world and start a family. The effect of her death has devastated my entire family I have been given a life sentence of grief.'

Floral tributes to Ms Giles, who was killed in a car crash in Birmingham in July

The VW Golf ended up performing flips in the air before crashing into a wall which was flattened in the collison

Her father John added: 'Sarah Giles was no normal 20-year-old.

'She was utterly selfless and more delightful than can be described in words.

'Sarah had been a force for all things good in the world. She did not have a bad bone in her body. She had started to thrive. She seemed finally to have a direction.

'I have been robbed of the most precious loving child imaginable.'

Judge Roderick Henderson described Ms Giles and 'intelligent, kind and generous' and was 'completely blameless' for the incident.

Speaking to Daniels, he said: 'In your car were four passengers and you were driving around in a stolen car on false plates.

'You had no license and tried to escape the police. You drove up to 80mph throughout residential areas.

'In the middle of a summer's evening people would be out, it is a miracle nobody else was injured.

'The smallest mercy in this case is that Sarah wouldn't know what happened.

'You were detained by the quick thinking of the residents on the road.

'In the end it was you who deliberately drove like this and caused those injuries.'

====== 1920 ========

INCREDIBLE BLACK AND WHITE PHOTOGRAPH SHOWS SMILING JEWISH CHILDREN AS THEY ESCAPED NAZI GERMANY

Eighty years after they first arrived in Britain having escaped atrocities in Germany – men and women retraced the tracks of the Kindertransport through the UK on Friday.

An astonishing black and white photograph showing a carriage full of smiling faces was revealed on the journey, of the Jewish children not fully comprehending the terror they so narrowly escaped, shortly before the outbreak of World War Two.

December 1, marks eight decades since the 196 Jewish children were rescued and brought to safety in Britain

Among them on the journey which took a day, was Leslie Baruch Brent, 93.

Mr Brent who boarded the train in Berlin and features in the photograph.

He told The Daily Mirror: 'We landed after a very stormy night, everyone except me was sick.

'We were all unslept, unkempt, unwashed and bewildered. We were in the same clothes, I had only eaten the ­sandwiches my mother gave me.

'I brought underclothes, carefully labelled with my name which my mother had stitched, a couple of extra shirts and an extra sweater, handkerchiefs, a book or two, and a tiny little teddy bear.'

'My mother was making sure I was smart. I arrived here in (a cravat).

'I've always preferred them.'

Professor Leslie Brent as a teenager leaving Germany just before WWII. He has no idea why he was selected for the journey which saved his life

At the time Leslie was 13-years-old, two years younger than his 15-year-old grandson Oscar who sat by his side on the Harwich to London Liverpool Street train.

On his original journey, Mr Brent travelled from Germany to the Hook of Holland, and then sailed across the Channel to Essex.

He then took a train to London and on to Bunce Court boarding school in Kent.

Until the outbreak of war in September 1939, 10,000 children were rescued.

The 93-year-old grandfather was born in Köslin, then in Germany but now Poland.

His beloved parents sent him to school in Berlin after anti-Semitic crimes began to rise. However, after Kristallnacht (the night of broken glass) in early November 1938 he was chosen for the Kindertransport.

Leslie had to leave behind his parents Charlotte and Arthur Baruch and an older sister Eva Susanne, aged 16. All three were transported to their deaths in 1942.

Aged just thirteen Leslie had no idea why he was selected for the transport scheme.

He told The Daily Mirror: 'The real heroes of the Kindertransport were the parents.

'They gave away their children without knowing where they would finish up.

'I can see them still. They tried to maintain a stiff upper lip and not cry.

'They waved ­handkerchiefs. I didn't cry. To an extent it was an adventure, not realising we'd never see our parents again.'

Despite the smiles, Mr Brent said the children were told they must behave in case the Nazis, who abused children in some carriages, turned them back around.

The image was taken in Holland, when they were close to leaving mainland Europe.

The black and white photo shows the children as they made it to Holland - despite having no idea what would await them in Britain - they smiled for the camera

Upon arrival some children were taken in by families and others were taken to holiday camp Dover Court and on to schools.

Leslie heard from his parents via Red Cross telegrams.

In September 1942 the last one from his father said: 'We are going on a journey.'

'I know now he had already been told to go to an assembly point two days later. At the time I didn't know what it meant,' Leslie added.

Leslie joined the British army in 1943, changing his name to Brent, hoping he would be helping his family.

Decades later he found out his parents were taken to Riga, Latvia, and shot in woodland. His sister Eva had the opportunity to remain and work in a hospital instead of being swept up by Nazis to the camp but Leslie's 'headstrong' sister refused to leave her parents.

Leslie has made it his mission to talk about them.

'When I die there will be no one left who knew them. But it keeps them alive when they are in people's memories,' Leslie added.

====== 1921 ========

SISTER, 48, WHO CONNED FAMILY OUT OF £21,000 CLAIMING SHE HAD BOWEL CANCER IS CONVICTED OF FRAUD

Ellen Danagher, 48, claimed she had bowel cancer and tricked her sister and two of her brothers into setting about raising £21,000

A woman who conned her family out of thousands of pounds by telling them she needed money for bowel cancer treatment has been found guilty of fraud.

Ellen Danagher, 48, tricked her sister and two of her brothers into raising £21,000 to pay for 'a new and innovative treatment' for a condition she never had.

Her sister Kathleen Young, who handed over around £12,000, told a jury at St Albans Crown Court: 'We just thought we had to get the money for her and we did.

'We had no reason not to believe her. She's our sister and we loved her.'

She went on: 'This is a terrible thing that has happened to our family. I don't understand why she has done this. She must be very sick mentally.'

Danagher, from Elsons Mews, Welwyn Garden City, was convicted of three counts of fraud by false representation by a jury of six men and six women.

Prosecutor Robin Miric said Danagher had told Mrs Young and her brothers John and Patrick Mullins in 2009 that she had been offered 'a new and innovative treatment which she thought would be successful in treating her condition.'

To back up her story, Danagher emailed them a letter which purported to be from Professor Martin Gore at The Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust.

It began: 'Dear Ellen, it was a pleasure to meet you on Wednesday and, if positivity was a cure, I would bottle yours.'

The letter went on to say: 'Stage 1 of her treatment would be at The John Radcliffe Hopsital in Oxford' and she might be required to be an inpatient for two days.

But in a statement Professor Gore said the hospital had not been able to find any record of Ellen Danagher on the electronic patient system and he said a reference number was 'too long' to be a Royal Marsden number. He added the letter did not look right and had not been written in his style.

Her sister Kathleen Young (pictured outside St Albans Crown Court today) was one of her three siblings that raised £7,000 to help with her treatment

Mrs Young said that Danagher told the family she had been diagnosed with Lupus in 1999 or 2000 and as a consequence couldn't have the normal treatment for bowel cancer.

She said her sister quoted figures of £160,000 and £180,000 for private treatment. Danagher asked the family for around £21,000

Patrick and John each gave £7,000 and she and her husband came up with a further £7,000.

Mrs Young said she continued to give her sister further amounts of money adding: 'I used to give her £150 per month for organic food to help her. I did that for a number of years.'

Once while on a train she received a text from her sister saying she had three to five years to live. She said: 'I never questioned her really, I just believed everything.'

Mrs Young said that later she and her husband took out a loan for around £5,000 when her sister approached her once more saying that she needed kidney treatment.

She said Danagher had paid some of the money back, but by 2016, she still owed her around £12,000.

Ironically, Mrs Young was diagnosed with bowel cancer and it was around this time that her sister had stopped paying any money back to her.

By 2014 she began to have doubts about her sister's story that she had cancer.

Siblings Patrick (pictured left outside court today) and John Mullins (right) also gave evidence after claiming they were tricked out of donating £7,000 to their sister's treatment

She said she and her brothers hired a private detective to look into Danagher's claims.

Patrick Mullins said his wife Susan, who was close to Ellen Danagher, was 'distraught' at the thought of her dying.

He said: 'There was no reason to think that the information that had been given wasn't correct.'

Mr Mullins said it was in 2015 that he eventually confronted Danagher and she admitted to him that she had lied about her cancer.

'She accepted it. She said she wasn't ill. I said 'Why did you lie to us?' and she said 'I did lots of good things, so why pull me up about this?'' He said he had not spoken to her since.

Danagher said she did not possess a scrap of paper to back up her claim that she'd ever had the illness, claiming she had burned on a bonfire all the letters detailing her appointments and admissions to the hospital which treated her.

The judge Recorder Christopher Jean QC bailed her for sentence on December 19

====== 1922 ========

PRIMARY SCHOOLS SISTERS CAMPAIGN FOR FAST FOOD PLASTIC TOY BAN

Rachael McEwan, 48, along with her daughters Caitlin, seven, left, and Ella, nine, right, have launched a petition looking to ban plastic toys handed out with children's meals

It will fall to their generation to attempt to clear up the plastic waste with which we have polluted the oceans.

But the future is in safe hands if nine-year-old Ella McEwan and her sister Caitlin, seven, are anything to go by.

After learning at school how rubbish is endangering sea life, the eco-aware pair from Southampton set up an online petition for fast food giants to stop putting plastic toys in children’s meal boxes.

They were inspired to act after a family trip to Burger King and the campaign has already attracted 2,000 signatures. The sisters, who attend Portswood Primary School, hope to present the petition to bosses at the companies.

‘The girls have had lots of lessons about protecting the environment and they were quite worried about it,’ said their mother Rachael, 49.

‘Ella came home after they’d seen a short film about plastics in the sea. They were talking about turtles with plastic bags round their necks, and that really upset the children.

‘They noticed the toys they got in the kids’ meal boxes weren’t great, they didn’t really want them, and a lot of the time they were plastic, wrapped in plastic,’ their mother said. ‘We started giving them back unopened and then, because they know about petitions, we talked about starting one and they were keen.’

In their online petition, Ella and Caitlin are targeting the Happy Meal and King Junior boxes.

Last night Burger King said it was ‘evaluating’ the toys it gave out. McDonald’s said it sometimes swapped toys in Happy Meals for books.

Plastic straws will be banned at all of Britain’s major theme parks by the end of the year. Merlin Entertainments said it was part of a wider review of its policy on plastic and unnecessary packaging.

====== 1923 ========

PUTIN'S 'TOP PROPAGANDIST' IS A RESIDENT IN LONDON WITH A £700,000 PROPERTY IN CHISWICK

Russia's top pro-Putin journalist has been accused of hypocrisy after it was revealed that his wife owns a secret £700,000 home in west London.

Sergey Brilev, 46, the anchor for Kremlin-funded Rossiya 1, and his wife Irina Brileva, are even found on the electoral roll, according to campaigner Alexei Navalny.

Navalny has challenged Brilev, who regularly hosts Vladimir Putin's televised phone-ins, to deny that he also secretly holds a UK passport.

The disclosure that one of Russia's leading Putin cheerleaders is a resident in Britain is deeply embarrassing for the anti-British Kremlin.

Sergey Brilev, a top pro-Putin TV presenter, poses by Tower Bridge in London in 2017

Brilev, right, and his wife Irina Brileva, left, pose outside Warwick Castle in 2017

Mrs Brileva allegedly owns a £700,000 flat in this apartment block in Chiswick, west London

'Brilev's main propaganda weapon is the total replacement of reality,' alleged Navalny, seen in Russia as the strongman's most charismatic political foe.

The presenter gives the impression that 'there is simply no bad news' about Putin, he said.

When Novichok poisoners Alexander Petrov and Ruslan Boshirov were exposed as spies, Brilev ignored this development and instead ran a soft feature on the Duchess of Sussex, he said.

Open sources in London show Brilev's charity worker wife Irina bought an apartment valued at £700,000 in 2016 without a mortgage in Heathfield Terrace, Chiswick.

She is also linked to a managing company for this address.

Cuban-born Brilev had formerly worked in Britain as a correspondent for Russian TV. Navalny claims he qualified for a British passport under Home Office rules at the time, which required applicants to have lived in the country for six years.

Putin supporter Brilev, left, and his wife Irina, right, pose in Chiswick in 2017

Brilev, right, listens to Vladimir Putin deliver a speech at the Eastern Economic Forum in 2016

A young Brilev reports from London when he was based here as a foreign correspondent

'This is how we found the true motherland of the state TV propaganda man Sergey Borisovich Brilev,' alleged Navalny on an internet broadcast.

'This man has been sitting next to Putin for 17 years - the TV presenter of his hotlines. He tells us every week how great it is to live in Putin's Russia, yet officially he is a subject of Her Majesty the Queen of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.'

Navalny did not present evidence that Brilev has a British passport. He claimed, however, that in 2001 the presenter was on an electoral register for an address in Notting Hill, which would not be possible without British citizenship, he said.

'In 2001 the correspondent did have a passport but not enough money to buy property in London,' alleged Navalny. 'All has changed now. His 15 years praising Putin on federal TV have paid him well.

'Now Brilev has both citizenship and a "spare" $1 million dollars (£700,000) to buy an apartment in Chiswick. A true Putin patriot. A responsible voter in Britain.'

Brilev's official biography on his channel makes no mention of his alleged British links. He is described as being 'best known for his exclusive interviews with Russian and global movers and shakers'.

In addition to his interviews with Putin, it highlights those with Barack Obama, George W Bush, Tony Blair and Hugo Chavez. His interview with former foreign secretary Boris Johnson in 2017 is not mentioned.

Brilev has been approached for comment.

====== 1924 ========

RICH BUSINESSMAN GOT GAGGING ORDER TO DENY HAVING A WIFE AND SON

A wealthy businessman has used a gagging order to deny having a wife and son.

Dubai-based executive Farhaj Sarwar took out a High Court order in London to try to deny he was married or the father of his six-year-old child.

His wife Lili Negabahni, a single mother, was silenced from telling her story for 18 months - with Mr Sarwar denying he is either her husband or son's father.

Dubai-based executive Farhaj Sarwar took out a High Court order in London to try to deny he was married to Lili Negabahni (pictured together) or the father of his six-year-old child

Ms Negabahni lived a luxurious life with Mr Sarwar in the United Arab Emirates until she became pregnant – and then fled to Britain before giving birth alone.

Speaking out now the order has been overturned, she told Sky News: 'My plan was I'll go to the court and if the justice system can't bring me justice, I'll come out and destroy myself to prove I was right and I was suffering and nobody could hear me.'

Ms Negabahni added that her waters broke on the way to hospital on a bus – but she was 'so shy and embarrassed' that she got off and walked instead.

The single mother, who lives in London, recorded meetings she had with Mr Sarwar as she attempted to persuade him to help her out with his son.

But in one recording, he threatened to remove the boy from her, saying: 'If he takes my name I swear to God no matter what I will take him from you.'

Ms Negabahni is Iranian and Mr Sarwar is Pakistani, but they both lived in Dubai – with her moving to the UAE as a child.

Ms Negabahni (pictured) lived a luxurious life with Mr Sarwar until she became pregnant

Solicitor Mark Lewis, who helped get the order overturned, told Sky News: 'If a person is getting a gagging injunction they have to say we will pay for your legal representation to fight us.

'So the courts are actually looking at the truth of the position between two equal parties, rather than one party with loads of money and one party with no money.'

Rory Lynch, a solicitor for legal firm Seddons who acted for Ms Negabahni in case, told MailOnline: 'Seddons successfully helped the discarded wife remove the gagging order her rich husband had imposed upon her.

'This continues a recent trend where the courts are preventing wealthy individuals from tactically using gagging and anonymity orders to conceal the existence of marriages and children.'

Mr Sarwar - who until recently was chief executive of NRS International, a firm making and selling humanitarian aid equipment - has so far declined to comment.

====== 1925 ========

MEDIEVAL BATTLE RE-ENACTMENT FAN WHO DREW HIS SWORD TO SCARE OFF YOBS IS SPARED JAIL

A medieval battle re-enactment fan who drew his 14th century replica sword to scare off yobs who had threatened his elderly father has been spared jail by a sympathetic judge

Alun Powell who frequently dresses as a knight for the role play warfare, pulled the weapon from the boot of his car in a row outside his house.

The 31-year-old was accused of 'taking up a fighting stance' with the 3ft sword after being threatened by a gang of yobs.

Alun Powell (pictured above) was accused of 'taking up a fighting stance' after he pulled a sword out of the boot of his car

Newport Crown Court heard that the father-of-four had spotted a knife in the gang's car and had reacted by pulling out an axe, knuckle duster and sword of his own.

Prosecutor Nuhu Gobir said: 'The whole matter was triggered by anti-social problems the defendant has been having in the neighbourhood.

'He was clearly angry, and angry there were problems outside his house - instead of calling police he went outside and placed himself in danger by arming himself with a knuckle duster.

'He went to his car and grabbed a sword and an axe - they were frightening looking weapons.'

After the incident, police asked Powell why he had the sword in his car and Powell replied he was a 'medieval sports enthusiast' who would dress armour for sword fights.

Mr Gobir added: 'He said in a police interview that he 'saw red' and wanted to teach them a lesson.

Alun Powell (left and right) had pulled out the weapons of the boot of his care after yobs threatened his elderly father

'He was in a rage and wanted to put the fear of god into them and took up a fighting stance.

'They saw the weapons and got so frightened that they left as quickly as possible.'

Powell was cleared of assault by beating and threatening a person with bladed articles in a public place, but he was convicted of three counts of possessing a bladed article in public.

Alun Powell (left and right) had spotted a knife in the gang's car and had reacted by pulling out an axe, knuckle duster and sword of his own

Judge Vosper told him: 'You have an interest in practicing a martial art where you use medieval weapons.

'This is a martial art in which you have competed internationally - representing Wales.

The court heard that Powell was a member of a historical medieval battle society where they wear full body armour.

Alun Powell (bottom right) had seen a knife in the car the yobs were using and decided to pull out his weapons

Powell, of Maindee Newport, said he had represented Wales in the equivalent of the sport's World Cup.

Jenny Yeo, defending, said: 'He was fearful what might happen and he acted out of self-defence.'

She said Powell had 'a real passion for medieval combat but it was not used in an aggressive purpose beyond the sport.

The hearing an Newport Crown Court (pictured) heard that Alun Powell had wanted to teach the yobs a lesson

'He had a realistic excuse for having the weapons.'

'I accept that you saw a knife in the car and I accept that a threat was made to your father. You took the weapons from the boot of your car but you did not intend to use them to cause injury.

'You have no previous convictions, you have a full-time job and care for your father - I do not deem an immediate custodial sentence appropriate.'

Medieval combat sports are described as historical full contact sport fighting revival movement - where fighters dress in full armour and use blunted weapons to fight according to historical tournament rules.

====== 1926 ========

MULTI-MILLIONAIRE FARMER WAS CRUSHED TO DEATH WHEN HIS TERRIER KNOCKED A LEVER IN HIS TRACTOR

A multi-millionaire farmer was crushed to death against a gate in his tractor after his pet terrier knocked a lever to make the vehicle move forward, an inquest heard.

Entrepreneur Derek Mead had left the JCB farm loader with the engine running as he was building a rockery.

An inquest in Bristol heard he left his dog in the cab of the vehicle and that the animal knocked a lever which started the machine moving. The inquest also heard that the lever would have been as easy to turn on as a car indicator and the dog may have jumped up to see where his master had gone.

Derek Mead (pictured above) was the managing director of Mead Realisations which owns Puxton Park, which is an all weather adventure park

The 70-year-old was crushed against the gate and suffered a fractured vertebrae and traumatic asphyxia.

Paramedics tried to save the father-of-three but he died at the scene, at his farm in Somerset in June 2017.

The health and safety inspector who investigated his death, Simon Chilcott, timelined the moments before Mr Mead's death at an inquest in Flax Bourton, Bristol.

He said: 'Mr Mead has pulled off the road, come to a halt with footbrake, made it stationary and put the shuttle into neutral. It was still in gear.

'He is now out of the vehicle and had it been knocked at any point when he got out, it would have started moving.

'You couldn't knock it as you are climbing out without realising you've done it.

'In the cab of the vehicle was a small dog and whether the dog had put its paws on the door to wait - or been jumping up to see where its master has gone - he has most likely collided with the lever.

Derek Mead died after being crushed by his own tractor

'As he jumped up to put his paws up to look, he has put machine into a forward motion.

'Operating the lever is no more difficult than changing an indicator stick on your car.'

Derek, who owned border collies and terriers, had been building rockery around a large pond in his garden on June 4, 2017 when the accident happened.

His son Alistair who cried throughout the one-hour hearing had discovered his father trapped against the gate and unresponsive.

In a statement read to the court, he said: 'Dad was crouched down facing the machine with his back to the gate as if he had seen the machine coming towards him and ducked to avoid it.'

Assistant coroner Dr Peter Harrowing said: 'Mr Mead was very experienced in the using the piece of equipment.

'The most likely explanation is that the dog inadvertently moved the shuttle lever, causing Mr Mead to be trapped against the gate.

'The death of Mr Derek Mead was one of a very tragic accident.'

A technical explanation of the vehicle's machinery was given during the inquest and it detailed how the operation of the tractor is similar to that of an automatic car.

'To start the engine, a key is required and it has two pedals, an accelerator and brake, similar to an automatic car.

'There is a gear stick and a handbrake to the left of the seat which is firmly fixed and difficult to move without force.

'The mechanism knocked by the dog is called a 'direction shuttle', which resembles an indicator, and is located to the left of the steering column.

'Once moved out of neutral, the machine will move forward without the need to accelerate.'

Mr Mead's brother Roger was killed 30 years ago when his tractor overturned while he was out working on his land.

Derek, who died at his farm The Laurels in the village of Puxton, Weston-super-Mare, was a leading businessman and a major landowner in the area.

He was the managing director of Mead Realisations which owns Puxton Park. He also owned the Sedgemoor Auction Centre at junction 24 of the M5.

He was also a long-term member of the National Farmers' Union before resigning in 2010 in a protest at what he said was its failure to support dairy farmers. Mr Mead farmed around 3,000 acres in North Somerset and also owned racehorses.

====== 1927 ========

DRONE FOOTAGE REVEALS THE INCREDIBLE SCALE OF MILLIONAIRE'S 10,000SQ FT 'LEISURE CENTRE'

Drone footage reveals the enormous scale of a millionaire's luxurious 10,000sq ft 'leisure centre' that he built without planning permission as a judge orders him to pay £30,000 to the council.

Graham Wildin, 66, spent four years battling with authorities over the 'man cave' - which contains a bowling alley, cinema, casino, a gym and even a 25ft three-storey doll’s house for when his grandchildren come to visit.

The grandfather-of-five built the £200,000 den illegally in the back garden of his six-bedroom mansion in Cinderford, Gloucestershire, in 2014.

And aerial photos show the vast scale of the enormous structure, which looks like a factory and swamps nearby residential houses.

Aerial photos show the luxurious complex in Cinderford, Gloucestershire (pictured) which boasts a casino, bowling alley, cinema, bar and squash court

Graham Wildin, 66, in his private bowling alley. The millionaire spent four years battling with authorities over the private leisure complex and has been ordered to pay council £30,000

Mr Wildin, an accountant, had always maintained that he did not need planning permission and that by digging 18 feet into the hillside he was taking advantage of a loophole which allows him to construct the building for use by his family.

A High Court judge said Mr Wildin must comply with the council and remove the extravagant centre, which is decked out with a bar and squash court.

He dismissed Mr Wildin's claims and granted Forest of Dean District Council an injunction ordering Mr Wildin to demolish the sports and leisure building.

Mr Wildin plays a game of ten-pin bowling in the lavish leisure complex, which was built illegally without planning permission

Drone footage view of the vast 'man cave' erected by Mr Wildin in his back garden and which cost him £200,000 to build

He is also facing a £30,000 legal bill after the council was awarded costs - and has been refused permission to appeal by the judge.

The council is preparing a timetable for the cave's demolition which could take months to complete and could cost Mr Wildin more than £720,000.

A spokesperson for Forest of Dean District Council said: 'We can confirm that Mr Wildin was refused permission to appeal by HHJ Jarman QC.

'This means that if Mr Wildin wishes to appeal, he has to seek permission directly from the Court of Appeal.

'The Council was awarded just over £30,000 costs; this is subject to confirmation in the final order.

Ultimate man cave: A huge gym in Mr Wildin's impressive sanctuary, which is now set to be bulldozed and could take months to be demolished

Mr Wildin relaxing in his personal cinema. A judge said the building seriously impacted the living conditions of his neighbours

'The final order will also contain stipulations and timeframes regarding compliance but there is a possibility that there may be some changes so we cannot provide details until the document has been sealed.

'As soon as it is sealed, we will be pleased to provide you with a copy of the Order.'

The news will come as a relief to neighbours who often argued with Mr Wildin about the enormous building.

Garry Thomas, 37, who lived nearby, even constructed a 12 foot-wide wooden fence so that he didn't have to look at the extension.

Mr Thomas' partner captured footage in April last year as the millionaire angrily tore the fence down. He even climbed up onto a ledge and threw a black plastic bin.

Mr Wildin had always maintained he did not need planning permission and that the 'man cave' was semi-submerged 18 foot into the ground, saving neighbours' views

A drone captured of the enormous man cave built in Mr Wildin's garden. The news of its demolition will come as a relief to neighbours who often argued with Mr Wildin about the enormous building

The casino at Mr Wildin's private leisure centre. The grandfather said tearing it down would cost him more than £720,000

A ping pong table and squash court are one of the many features in Mr Wildin's leisure complex which will now be demolished

Handing down judgement last month, Judge Jarman QC said the man cave had a serious impact on neighbours.

He said Mr Wildin had not taken any steps to comply with the enforcement notice which gave him until July 7 last year to knock down the building.

The judgement followed a two-day hearing at Cardiff High Court in September when the council asked the judge to back an enforcement notice issued in March 2014, instructing Mr Wildin to demolish the works.

Lawyers said Mr Wildin had already appealed to the Planning Inspectorate and the High Court to cancel the enforcement notice and had failed on both occasions.

The enormous factory-like structure. Although the judge accepted that there would be adverse impacts upon Mr Wildin, he granted the injunction

A relaxation area and games room in Mr Wildin's man cave, which he fought for four years with the council to keep standing

And he failed to comply with the enforcement requirements even though he was given over two years to do so and shunned attempts to negotiate with him.

Mr Wildin told the court that an injunction would ruin him. He said demolishing the man cave would cost him £720,000.

Although the judge accepted that there would be adverse impacts upon Mr Wildin, he granted the injunction.

He said Mr Wildin's circumstance did not outweigh public interest. Now Mr Wildin will be forecd to bulldoze the centre or face the wrath of the court.

====== 1928 ========

FORMER SOLDIER BEATEN UP WHILE POLISHING HIS MEDALS

A former soldier polishing his medals was attacked by a ‘cowardly’ mob of teens in a sleepy market town in East Sussex.

Malcolm Wilkins was thrown to the ground and repeatedly kicked by up seven hooded youths in revenge for him asking them not to vandalise his fence.

The 53-year-old ex-corporal became the latest victim of ‘Wild West Britain’ as he prepared for a Remembrance Sunday service.

Malcolm Wilkins, 53, a former corporal in the Queen's Regiment, was polishing his medals

He was set upon by a gang of teenagers, sustaining serious bruising on his legs

He had stayed up late on Saturday November 10th to polish his medals in readiness to honour the war dead.

After hearing a commotion around 1am outside his cottage in the market town of Wadhurst in East Sussex, he went to investigate.

Mr Wilkins said he shouted at two youths wearing hoodies to stop kicking his fence and was immediately threatened for daring to speak out.

It is just so shocking that it could happen here Malcolm Wilkins, former soldier

‘One of them just said "what you going to do about it old man?" and took a swing at me,’ said Mr Wilkins.

‘I swung back at him and then the other five or six who were across the road just ran over and piled in. I didn’t stand a chance. There is no way I can take on seven teenagers.’

Mr Wilkins, who served for nine years in the Queen’s Regiment, including tours of duty in Northern Ireland, found himself dragged into the middle of the road by the mob, aged from 14-17.

He said: ‘I had one in a headlock, but the others were just kicking and stamping on me. I could feel the blows coming from all sides. I was in a lot of pain.’

His wife Alison, 48, ran out to help and brandishing a phone shouted that she had called the police.

Mr Wilkins said: ‘When they realised the police had been called, they all ran off.

‘I was very shaken and came back into the house. This is usually such a quiet place to live with no crime. It is just so shocking that it could happen here.’

The ex-soldier said it took police an hour to arrive at his cottage where they took statements from him and his wife.

The ex-soldier said it took police an hour to arrive at his cottage where they took statements

Mr Wilkins had told the teenagers not to vandalise his fence, left, when they set upon him

He was left in such pain that he was unable to attend the village’s Remembrance Day service.

‘I had to stay in bed. My body just ached from where I had been kicked,' he said.

‘As an ex-soldier I always attend Remembrance Day, but there was no way I could do it this year.’

Almost two weeks after the attack, the deep bruises on his leg are still visible.

Mr Wilkins said he was angry that it took police an hour to respond to the 999 call.

‘By the time the police turned up they had long gone,’ said Mr Wilkins.

‘They told me they had come from Uckfield which is about 16 miles away. I said by the time they got here the kids were probably tucked up in bed.’

Details of the assault were posted on a Facebook page for the village, but no one has yet given police any information about who was likely involved.

‘I was told they had been at a party, but even though people in Wadhurst must have an idea of who they are no one is saying anything as they are scared of reprisals,’ said Mr Wilkins, who works as an HGV driver.

'Someone must remember having a party and the teens leaving around 1am but no one is saying much.

‘I just find it so sad that there is no respect. Teens don’t have respect for the police or other people’s property.

'You see it all the time and it just sickens me.’

It isn’t thought any of the teenagers filmed the attack as no clips have been posted to social media.

A spokesman for Sussex Police said they were investigating the incident and no arrests had been made.

====== 1929 ========

TEENAGER, 19, CAUGHT TOUCHING A 14-YEAR-OLD GIRL IN CINEMA IS ORDERED TO SIGN SEX OFFENDER REGISTER

Callum Chant outside Minshull Street Crown Court where he admitted sexual activity with a girl aged under 15 and child abduction

A teenager has been ordered to sign the Sex Offender Register after he was caught canoodling with a 14-year old schoolgirl as they watched a movie together at the cinema.

Callum Chant, 19, and the youngster were sat together side-by-side in one of the rows and during the film were seen to close in on each other as if they were about to kiss.

Chant, of Bury, Greater Manchester, also touched the girl's leg and bottom over her clothing before he was spotted by her stepfather and the girl's mother who turned up unexpectedly to check on them.

The mother later obtained CCTV from the cinema in Bury, which showed Chant and her daughter 'sat next to each other and their heads moving close to each other' a court heard.

Chant later claimed he and the girl had agreed to go with friends to watch the film but it is thought the group separated leaving them alone together.

He was arrested and issued with a Child Abduction Warning notice urging him to stay away from younger girls.

But he was detained again just three months later after another girl aged 15 was found at his flat.

At Minshull Street Crown Court, Manchester Chant, who was 18 at the time of the offences, admitted sexual activity with a girl aged under 15 and child abduction and was ordered to sign the Sex Offender Register for five years.

He was also made subject a two year community order and abide by a fourth month curfew from 7pm-7am. Both girls refused to make a statement to police.

The cinema trip occurred on February 24 this year after Chant asked the girl to go on a date with him.

Chant (pictured) and the girl were sat together side-by-side in one of the rows and during the film were seen to close in on each other as if they were about to kiss, the court heard

Prosecutor Katherine Johnson said: 'That day the 14 year old's mother received a telephone call saying she was going to the cinema with the defendant. Her mother didn't know him but was told he was 18.

'She and her partner went to the cinema, and her partner went in to find the girl. He saw her there with him and they were sat close together.

She was shocked to see him, and the partner asked Chant if he knew she was 14.

'The defendant replied saying 'yes' and that they were just friends. The two said they had been with other friends who left the cinema earlier. The partner then told the girl to leave with him which she did.'

Ms Johnson said her mother than made enquiries with the cinema to see CCTV of the pair.

It showed them say next to each other and their heads moving close to each other.

She added: 'They denied that they kissed at all, but there was some touching of her bottom shown on CCTV over clothes and on her leg.

'He was placed under a child abduction warning notice on 13th March but he said they were friends and wanted to meet up. He did accept he had touched her bottom on the day he was interviewed.

'On May 9 the other girl had been staying with her grandma but she didn't return home and her grandma learned she had gone to the defendant's flat. The girl refused to let her grandma in when she turned up, and did this for an hour.

'She managed to get in and the girl was in the flat with Chant and another male. Her grandma got in and the young persons tried to prevent her to get in the living room.

'On 13th May the girl had not returned home again and was in fact reported missing at 10pm. Her grandma sent a taxi to her and asked her to come back home with the defendant and said she wished to meet him, to trick her to come home.

'They turned up and her grandma spoke to him and he denied being in a relationship with her, but the police attended and he was arrested in the early hours of 14th.

'He was interviewed in relation to both offences he was in the company of the girl. On 9th he had gone to the flat so his friend could charge his phone. On 13th he met up with her and they went for a Chinese with their friend.

'He believed the warning notice had been lifted. Being out on that time put him in breach of bail as it was past his curfew time anyway. He was not supposed to have any unsupervised contact with anyone under 16. Both girls refused to make a statement.'

Defending lawyer Daniel Colder said his client 'recognises these are serious offences' but said he had been rejected by friends his own age because of his physical appearance.

Sentencing Judge Mark Savill told Chant: 'There is nothing technical about these offences. She was a child and it was sexual activity and you have to understand the seriousness of it.

'It has been evaluated that you do not pose as high risk of immediate harm, you are genuinely remorseful and are not someone with an interest in underage girls.

But if you are foolish enough to breach this court order you will be back before me. You should consider yourself extremely lucky.'

====== 1930 ========

APPLE IMPLORES CREATIVES TO 'SHARE YOUR GIFTS' IN A HEARTFELT, PIXAR-ESQUE ANIMATED AD

Apple has unveiled its holiday ad - an animated short reminiscent of the poignant filmography of Pixar animation studios.

The ad titled 'Share Your Gifts' opens on a picturesque, mountain town and features the sweet ballad 'Come Out and Play' by 16-year-old breakout pop star Billy Eilish written for the campaign.

A curly-haired, freckle-faced heroine named Sofia stars in the piece as she is seen working on projects hidden from view on her sticker-covered Apple laptop.

She then prints out, frowns over and places her ideas in a gift box tied with a ribbon and locked down with a hair pick. The only witness to her creativity is her large, shaggy dog.

The following day depicts her hiding her creativity from her elderly bakery employers, a child on a bus and a friend in a coffee shop as Billie Eilish's song gently chides 'don't hide away'.

But, she's forced to 'come out and play' when her dog forces the issue, spilling her hidden work out onto snowy streets that get blown by the wind until they come to rest at a winter carnival.

The 'Share Your Gifts' ad purports to celebrate the power of creativity with the story of its somewhat shy protagonist named Sofia

Despite her efforts to hide her talents away, Sofia's gifts eventually get revealed to the world through the actions of one perceptive dog

There, the baker couple looks on a page still hidden from the audience and gives a smile of acknowledgement to the initially embarrassed Sofia.

She's then nudged by her dog to see that other townsfolk are picking up her papers with smiles as well.

The heartwarming holiday message of putting oneself out there was done with a mixture of practical sets and computer-generated animation, shown in a behind-the-scenes video featuring the creatives at TBWA\Media Arts Lab, a longtime partner of Apple.

The crew behind the ad helped bring it to life with hand-made cutouts and miniature sets of the snow-covered fictional town

'I love the combination of practical sets with CG,' says the associate creative director named Richard in the companion piece. 'So, you get amazing performance from the characters, but we're still in this really art directed environment. Makes people connect with it.'

'We kind of focused on Sofia's Macbook and allowing it to show her personality through this tool that really empowered her to make something wonderful and put it out there,' added producer Tana, highlighting that this is still a commercial.

====== 1931 ========

JEWISH LEADERS CALL FOR RELIGIOUS TEXTS TO CARRY WARNINGS HIGHLIGHTING ANTI-SEMITIC PASSAGES

Jewish leaders are calling for new editions of the Bible and Koran to carry warning messages which highlight anti-Semitic passages in the holy texts.

The recommendations have been made in a new document called ‘An End to Antisemitism! A Catalogue of Policies to Combat Antisemitism’.

It was produced following an international conference organised by the European Jewish Congress, at which academics gathered to discuss how prejudice and discrimination can be tackled.

Ariel Muzicant, Vice-President of the European Jewish Congress, and co-author of the new document holds it up, showing the title 'An End to Antisemitism! A Catalogue of Policies to Combat Antisemitism'

Among the policies mentioned in the document was the idea of warning messages in holy texts, a topic discussed in a chapter entitled 'recommendations regarding Religious Groups and Institutions'.

The document reads: 'Translations of the New Testament, the Qur’an and other Christian or Muslim literatures need marginal glosses, and introductions that emphasize continuity with Jewish heritage of both Christianity and Islam and warn readers about antisemitic passages in them.

'While some efforts have been made in this direction in the case of Christianity, these efforts need to be extended and made consistent in both religions.'

There are several themes in the New Testament that have come under fire for their use as justification for anti-Semitic attitudes.

These include the blame of Jews for the death of Jesus and the seemingly stubborn nature of the Jewish people and their disloyalty to God.

While there are some negative remarks about Jews in the Koran, and negative portrayals of the people.

The Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby has previously spoken of how religious texts can be exploited or misinterpreted to promote discriminatory attitudes.

The Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby has previously spoken of how theological teachings have in the past been used to spread anti-Semitism. He spoke of how it had 'infected the body of the Church'

Academics and leaders gathered in Vienna earlier this year to discuss how an end to anti-Semitism can be brough about. Pictured here (left to right) are Ariel Muzicant, Vice-President of the European Jewish Congress, Heinz Fassmann, Federal Minister for Education, Science and Research, Mathias Doepfner, CEO Axel Springer SE, Danielle Spera, Director of the Jewish Museum Vienna, Kenneth Jacobson, Deputy National Director of the Anti-Defamation League, Pawlo Klimklin, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and Dina Porat, Head of the Kantor Centre

Writing in a collection of essays published in 2016, he said: 'It is a shameful truth that, through its theological teachings, the church, which should have offered an antidote, compounded the spread of this virus.

'The fact that anti-Semitism has infected the body of the Church is something of which we as Christians must be deeply repentant. We live with the consequences of our history of denial and complicity.'

The document, which was produced by academics including Dina Porat and Lawrence H. Schiffman, also calls on all antisemitic texts and passages in the heritage of Christianity and Islam 'to be identified and rejected'.

Other recommendations include religious leaders and thinkers 'publicly denouncing as unholy writ' canonical or quasi-canonical writings of religious anti-Semites.

The justification for these changes, the documents states, is because divine messages are always communicated through human beings and therefore subject to error.

It reads: 'God’s revelation is thus marred by human fallibility. Beginning with the New Testament, divine revelation expresses itself in Christian holy texts that also express a form of hatred.

'The manifestations of this hatred resulted in a tradition of antisemitism that gave moral legitimacy to crimes against the Jewish people, the epitome of which is the Shoah.'

Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, Moshe Kantor, President of the European Jewish Congress, and Manfred Weber, Chairman of the European People's Party, are pictured during a conference on anti-Semitism in Vienna, Austria. The conference followed the publication of a document outlining a number of policy suggestions

Once the 'antisemitic contents of a religious memory are identified' religious leaders and followers need to be told, the document concludes.

Other areas highlighted, following the conference, include addressing anti-Semitism online and within research organisations and academic institutions.

This includes ensuring internet search engines privilege positive depictions of Judaism and accurate descriptions of the history of anti-Semitism.

Academics have been reacting to suggested recommendations laid out in the documents.

Dr Christine Joynes, a theology lecturer at Oxford, told The Times that she had 'some sympathy' over the suggestion of an annotated bible.

But said: 'The whole Bible needs a health warning to read it through the right critical lens and in historical context.'

While Muhammad Abdel Haleem, professor of Islamic Studies at the University of London, and also speaking to The Times said that the Koran is entirely negative towards Jews.

He said: 'If someone wants to get involved in antisemitism or anti-Islamic behaviour, they will do it whether or not you add warnings and footnotes.'

====== 1932 ========

HOW TWITTER HELPED TURN LADY BETH FROM PRODIGY TO PROSTITUTE

Few dispute that Lady Beth Douglas met her squalid and premature death because of the criminal drug trade.

The teenage daughter of the Marquess of Queensberry died of cardiac failure, caused by cocaine and heroin poisoning, in the early hours of Wednesday, March 7, while at a house party in one of London’s most exclusive squares.

Her host was a known addict whose flat, in a part of Notting Hill where homes fetch £25 million, was a notorious crack den familiar to locals and the police.

Witnesses say that two drug dealers, a man and woman of ‘Latin’ appearance, were summoned to the venue by phone, arriving at about 8pm with a large stash of narcotics, likely to have included the fatal batch of heroin. Someone almost certainly then helped Lady Beth, who was just 18 and had never previously injected the drug, fill a syringe, before inserting it into a vein on her right arm.

Several people then saw her collapse on a filthy sofa, apparently falling asleep.

Lady Beth Douglas, 18, (pictured) died while at a house party in Notting Hill. Police decided the incident was ‘not believed to be suspicious’

Many of them were still there at about 1.30am, when her boyfriend, Jenan Herzog Karagoli, who had ventured out to buy wine when she took the drug, realised she wasn’t going to wake up.

There was, in short, ample evidence of very serious criminality that night.

A property in the heart of London had, after all, been used to supply large quantities of class A drugs to several people, in the presence of many onlookers, including its tenant.

As a result, a vivacious young girl, who, two years earlier, had been an academically gifted violin prodigy, attending one of Britain’s top music schools, was dead. Clues about the events leading up to Lady Beth’s death would almost certainly have been found on her mobile phone, which Jenan had used to summon an ambulance.

In addition to her conversations with various drug dealers, who, for several months, had fuelled her addiction, it had been used to control social media accounts, which showed the half-Taiwanese aristocrat, known as ‘Ling Ling’, had been prostituting herself to obtain drug money.

Yet, despite these pertinent facts, the police failed to arrest — let alone charge — a single person, and do not seem to have launched a criminal investigation.

Instead, they decided the whole incident was ‘not believed to be suspicious’.

They maintain that line to this day, to the dismay of Ling Ling’s family, who are deeply upset that, as they see it, no significant efforts have been made to trace guests at the party who might identify the criminals who contributed to her death.

At her inquest, her father, the Marquess, complained that the host of the party, who allowed his property to be used for the distribution and taking of drugs, was not even compelled to give evidence.

‘This flat, where my daughter died, seems to have been connected with the injection of heroin,’ he said.

Lady Beth (pictured) won a place at the Purcell School for Young Musicians at age 15. Just two years before her death she was an academically-gifted violin prodigy

‘The owner of the flat is not here to make any statement. And the other people at the party, police haven’t contacted them.’

Meanwhile, Lady Beth’s niece, Hero Douglas, has said: ‘I am horrified that a girl who had never injected heroin before can die.

‘No one trying heroin for the first time does it themselves — someone must have helped her. But the police don’t seem to care about finding out who that was.’

In the nine months that have passed since her death, the police don’t seem to have done a great deal to stop drugs being consumed in the Notting Hill flat where she died.

Last week, when the Mail visited the property, owned by the Peabody Trust housing association and situated in Pembridge Square, we saw one occupant taking cocaine in broad daylight. Nearby is Wetherby Preparatory School, the alma mater of Princes William and Harry.

This public spectacle speaks volumes about the creaking state of the criminal justice system.

Yet take an extended look at the all-too-short life of Lady Beth Douglas and it soon becomes apparent that the police aren’t the only ones with difficult questions to answer.

So, too, do the mental health services who had been treating the teenager for anorexia, bipolar disorder and a personality disorder for several years. They allowed her to pass a mental health assessment less than a month before her death.

A series of family misfortunes have contributed to the 'Queensberry Curse'. The Marquess pictured with his daughter Lady Beth and her niece Hero

And so does the social media giant Twitter, which, as we shall see, facilitated her descent into prostitution.

Some blame for this tragedy lies with the famously dysfunctional Queensberry family, whose ancestors have seen centuries of misfortune, and also with Lady Beth herself.

The sad tale begins in the early Nineties, when her mother, a young Taiwanese artist called Hsueh-Chun Liao, came to the UK to study at Bath Spa University and then the Royal College of Art.

There, she came into the orbit of the charismatic Marquess of Queensberry, Sir David Harrington Angus Douglas, a motorbike-riding, Eton-educated potter who has over the years designed homeware ranges for everyone from John Lewis to Royal Doulton and Wedgwood.

Though the Marquess was, by then, twice-divorced and approaching his 70th birthday, with six legitimate children, plus a seventh born as a result of an extra-marital affair in the early Sixties, the duo fell in love. Lady Beth was born in August 1999. Less than a year later, Liao married Sir David, then 72, becoming the third Lady Queensberry in the process. At 31, the Taiwanese third wife was younger than four of her husband’s children.

Lady Beth (pictured) developed an appetite for recreational drugs by the time she dropped out of Purcell School for Young Musicians

Lady Beth earned about £500 from Skype sex shows before moving into prostitution

Family misfortunes have all contributed to the so-called ‘Queensberry Curse’. The 9th Marquess, an eminent Victorian who gave his name to the rules of boxing, was the father of Lord Alfred Douglas, the gay lover who played a leading role in Oscar Wilde’s downfall.

In recent years, Sir David’s actress daughter Lady Alice married an armed robber she met while doing outreach work in a prison (predictably, the marriage collapsed).

Meanwhile, the half-sister of Sir David’s illegitimate son Ambrose Carey managed to marry not one, but two of Osama Bin Laden’s sons.

‘I could never remember his surname, except by thinking of Bin Liner,’ Sir David later mused. ‘Now, of course, Bin Laden must be the most famous name in the world.’

While the family estates, which once covered tens of thousands of acres, had long since been lost, Sir David’s successful career, which began alongside Terence Conran, selling pots out of a Mayfair garage, afforded him a degree of prosperity.

Lady Beth grew up in a comfortable home near Westbourne Park, to the north of Notting Hill, the youngest member of what Lady Alice once described as ‘a very modern and gloriously dysfunctional family’.

Lady Beth (pictured) was known to mental health services for self-harming and diagnosed with anorexia by age 13

Lady Beth (pictured) was sexually abused by a much older man at Comic Con but didn't reveal what happened says a family source

Hsueh-Chun Liao’s own career was by then taking off (today, her pots sell at auction for up to £5,000), while the young Lady Beth soon demonstrated a precocious talent for the violin. She had taken it up aged six, winning a place in the Royal Academy of Music’s junior academy. Yet, in keeping with the Queensberry tradition, life wouldn’t run smoothly for long. In 2007, when Lady Beth was eight years old, her parents separated and her mother moved to Finchley, North London, several miles from the home where she’d grown up. Then, in 2009, the family was struck by serious tragedy, when her half-brother, Milo, a 34-year-old charity worker suffering from depression, killed himself.

‘His death broke her heart. She was at a formative age at the time and, to a degree, never really recovered,’ says a family friend.

‘In fact, many of the problems she was diagnosed with, bipolar disorder and so on, were identical to the ones he’d struggled with.’

The day before she died, she asked me: “Where can we get some heroin?

By the age of 13, the once vivacious Lady Beth (who’d won a place at the Latymer School, a highly selective North London grammar) was known to mental health services, after she started self-harming. She was diagnosed with anorexia, too. Then, at 14, she was deeply affected by an incident at Comic Con, a comic book and pop culture exhibition, where she met a much older man who went on to sexually abuse her. ‘Ling Ling never revealed what happened, but she seemed seriously traumatised,’ says a family source.

She never fully recovered. At 15, she won a place at the Purcell School for Young Musicians, one of the most prestigious institutions in the country (she had attained distinctions in grade-eight piano, violin and viola) but, after a year, she suddenly dropped out, announcing that ‘music doesn’t interest me any more’.

A family friend believes Lady Beth (pictured) never really recovered from the death of her brother who killed himself in 2009

By then, she had developed an appetite for recreational drugs, experimenting with cannabis, MDMA and cocaine, drinking heavily and dying her hair. Things soon spiralled, and in 2016, she was sectioned for six months, under the Mental Health Act.

On August 7 last year, Lady Beth was celebrating her 18th birthday with friends in a Notting Hill pub when she met Jenan Herzog Karagoli, an unemployed 21-year-old who lived with his mother in a flat on a nearby council estate.

‘She had her dad’s credit card and was high on a drug called loprazolam,’ he recalled. ‘We kissed that night.’

Within days, she had moved in with Karagoli. ‘She couldn’t bear to live with her mother, which I found absolutely bizarre because she was a lovely lady,’ he said.

To fill the days, he says they would take cocaine or MDMA in his bedroom before ‘wandering the streets of West London’.

Lady Beth was also on several prescription medications on the advice of her doctors, including risperidone (an anti-psychotic) and lithium (a mood stabiliser). Then things took a still darker turn. In December last year, she opened a Twitter account, calling herself ‘Goddess Candy’. On it, she offered to perform naked webcam shows on Skype for men who transferred £20 to her Paypal account and to sell her underwear to perverts willing to pay £30.

The account, which remains online, holds deeply unpleasant photographs and videos of this vulnerable, extremely thin teenage girl, who is clearly unwell.

Lady Beth (pictured) was almost constantly high on cocaine in the hours before her death

One shows her lying on a bed in a nightdress with a bloodied bandage covering her right wrist. In another, she talks to camera, slurring and so inebriated that her eyes can barely open.

To Karagoli’s dismay, these Skype sex shows, from which she earned about £500, became a ‘gateway’ into prostitution. She began leaving him in pubs for hours at a time — seemingly to meet men she’d met via Twitter. In January, she began to use her Twitter feed to advertise for ‘meets tonight in the Westbourne Park area’.

Quite why social media site Twitter allows its platform to be used by a teenage prostitute to procure clients is anyone’s guess, as is the question of whether Skype is happy for its service to be used for drug addicts to perform sex shows.

‘The day before she died, she asked me: “Where can we get some heroin? Because I want to try it again.” ’ recalled Karagoli.

‘She used to snort heroin back before I knew her. I said I didn’t know anyone [who sold it]. She made a phone call and said we were going to a party.’

In the 48 hours before her death, she was almost constantly high on cocaine, financing the binge by meeting a dubious series of men in Bayswater hotels.

She then bought a deadly batch of the heroin in a known drug den on one of London’s finest squares.

Yet, as we know, officialdom insists that no crimes whatsoever were committed during this very sorry saga.

And so no one will be held to account for the latest tragedy to strike her aristocratic dynasty.

Additional reporting: Courtney Bartlett

====== 1933 ========

HOW DO YOU TELL A CHILD THAT GRANNY'S GOT DEMENTIA?

Great-Auntie Isobel greets Oliver with a hug and the ten-year-old responds with an affectionate grin.

The pair have an easy rapport as they spend a relaxed afternoon together at her care home, and Oliver knows without doubt that she is pleased to see him. But then she asks him his name — again, and again, and again.

It can be quite annoying, the ten-year-old admits, but he knows Auntie Isobel has dementia, so he’s patient.

‘If she keeps asking me the same question, I just keep saying the answer. It’s not her fault she can’t remember.’

They do jigsaws — special, simple patterns designed for adults with dementia — and talk about their lives. It’s a relationship that enriches both octogenarian and little boy.

Oliver, in turn, is learning how to listen, that life isn’t always perfect and that you have to look after those you love when they need you most.

An expert on dementia claims every child growing up now is going to know an adult with the condition. Oliver, ten, (pictured with his Great-Auntie Isobel) shared how he interacts with his great aunt who has dementia

‘Kids get it,’ says TV broadcaster Angela Rippon, who leads the Alzheimer’s Society’s rapidly expanding youth programme. ‘They don’t have the fear, and the word stigma is not in their vocabulary.’

Deciding how much to tell children about a relative’s dementia — or whether to tell them at all — is a dilemma faced by increasing numbers of parents, as I discovered when I was researching the condition for a radio programme.

Oliver is among many thousands of children dealing with dementia in the family. Once comparatively unusual, as Britain’s population ages, the condition is rapidly becoming an unavoidable part of day-to-day life.

Even those who don’t have a close relative with dementia are more and more likely to encounter it in elderly neighbours, or on a trip to the shops.

Some 850,000 people are living with dementia in the UK, and this figure will top a million in the next eight years, reaching two million by 2051 — when Oliver will be in his early 40s.

‘Every child growing up now is going to know an adult with dementia,’ says Professor Clive Ballard, leading expert on the condition and head of Exeter University Medical School. ‘And if they live past 80, they have a one-in-four chance of developing it themselves. So it’s a really important thing for children to know about.

‘I believe it should be on the national curriculum. A lot of our attitudes are set in childhood. It is absolutely pivotal that they learn about dementia.’

He sees this as one of the key ways to reduce the lingering stigma that surrounds the illness. People are often pushed out of society, isolated from friends and family, because we don’t know how to cope with them.

The world we live in — including shops, banks, cafes, certainly websites and even most medical centres and hospitals — is not dementia-friendly. When someone starts behaving strangely, we tend to shy away, afraid of what we don’t understand.

Kathryn Smith (pictured with her son Oliver) believes it's important to talk to children about dementia before it's in the family

Experts believe we can change this for the better by educating people — especially children, whose minds are open and receptive — about the illness.

‘We’re beginning to destigmatise it, but there’s a long way to go,’ says Professor Ballard.

In Oliver’s case, his mother, Kathryn Smith, was already knowledgeable about dementia through her work, and she read bedtime stories about dementia to her children — Oliver, Jacob, 14, and Kian, 18. It meant it was relatively easy to explain to them what was happening to their great-aunt.

But she admits many parents feel reluctant to raise such a sensitive issue with their children, fearing upsetting them.

‘Ideally, it’s best to talk to them about it before it’s in the family,’ she says. ‘That way, awareness grows with the child.’

Isobel was diagnosed when Oliver was five, so he’s grown up accepting her for who she is, rather than being afraid.

How common is dementia? Some 225,000 people will develop dementia this year — that’s one every three minutes

‘People with dementia are still individuals — the same person underneath,’ says Kathryn, who points out that if you are not honest with children, they will conjure up something in their imagination that is often far worse than the reality.

They may even believe it is their fault when a relative becomes unsettled, or they are no longer taken to visit.

Most importantly, though, their presence does the person with dementia so much good, Kathryn stresses. ‘Even if they don’t remember who you are, a visit can still make them happier. They may forget the facts — but not the feeling of being loved.

‘I tell the children never to lie. If you are asked a straight question, answer it. But if Auntie says something wrong, don’t correct her. And that includes when she’s complaining, “I’ve been stuck in here for months and nobody’s visited”, even though you know you have!’

Each time they visit, Kathryn takes a photo of the group, which she prints out and brings along on their next trip. Pictures, she says, are great conversation-starters.

While it’s natural to want to correct a person with dementia when they get things muddled, many experts now say it’s better not to contradict them, as this can cause greater distress.

Oliver says although it can be frustrating when his Auntie Isobel (pictured) repeats questions, it doesn't mean that it's not worth speaking to her

April Dobson, head of dementia care for Hallmark Care Homes, explains: ‘Go where they are; don’t try to drag them into our reality.’

Young children are often better at this than adults, she adds, as they can feel less upset or embarrassed by awkward comments.

Still, dementia is not easy to understand — even for an adult. So what does a child think about it?

Oliver tells me confidently that the condition is ‘a brain disease that is slowly getting rid of their memories’. ‘You should keep reminding them that you love them,’ he says seriously.

He adds that, while his Auntie Isobel’s repeated questions can be frustrating, that doesn’t mean it’s not worth speaking to her.

‘Take a stress ball to squeeze if you get annoyed!’ he advises other youngsters.

While children can be ideal visitors, you do have to take into account the character of both the child and the older relative.

People with dementia are still individuals — the same person underneath - Kathryn Smith

Kathryn’s grandfather was diagnosed with dementia in the same year as her great-aunt. But while Isobel had always adored children and still derives great pleasure from seeing them, for her grandfather it was different.

‘He wasn’t a child person before he had dementia,’ says Kathryn. ‘And as the illness progressed, he showed his irritation more openly.

‘The children’s visits weren’t beneficial for them or him, so I stopped taking the boys to see him some time before he died.’

Emma Crozier worked hard to make sure her seven-year-old son Matty maintained a loving and meaningful connection with his grandfather, Alan.

Emma’s father, who died last year, developed dementia in his mid-50s. This is not as unusual as you might think: more than 40,000 people under 65 have a diagnosis of dementia, and many more go undiagnosed.

Kathryn's grandfather (pictured left) was diagnosed with dementia in the same year as her great-aunt

‘My dad had always been fit and good-looking, a sportsman, a geologist who travelled the world,’ says Emma. ‘Then he started losing parts of himself and his behaviour could be quite challenging. He sometimes got angry with himself when he was unable do simple things — like make a cup of coffee — and could seem impatient with those around him.’

To help Matty understand his grand-father’s behaviour, Emma told stories about Alan’s past life and explained why he got frustrated when he couldn’t do something. She chose activities her son and father could do together. They read books, coloured in, played with toy cars and kicked a ball between them.

‘My father could kick a ball almost until he died,’ she says. ‘It was instinctive for him. You need to find things to help the person interact in familiar ways.’

Leah Hearnshaw, aged eight, has found her own ways to connect with her grandfather. He can no longer see or talk much, but he’s always loved nature, so she made him a basket of crunchy leaves and shiny conkers so he could hear and feel the autumn. ‘He liked it,’ she says. ‘He was smiling quite a lot.’ Leah also feeds her grandfather little chocolates and takes his arm as he walks around.

When intellectual ability is gone, the sense of touch remains. It is a way to interact with someone even in the advanced stages of dementia, and can be reassuring at any time.

Some children, like Leah and Matty, will offer a hug instinctively. Others are more wary and a shared toy or game may provide a good way to make contact.

Leah’s mum, Cate, explains that her little girl’s involvement isn’t just good for Grandpa, it helps Leah deal with his illness, too. Finding ways for children to join in makes them feel less helpless.

Kathryn stopped taking her children to visit her grandfather (pictured) before he died as the illness caused him to openly show irritation

Leah and her mother recently gave a presentation at Leah’s school. ‘I told them dementia is a disease,’ says Leah, ‘but you don’t catch it like a cold. I said you can die from it, but you can live a very long time — and there are lots of things we can do to help.’

Professor Ballard stresses that although some children may find unpredictable behaviour frightening, these worries may be overcome with reassurance and by finding a way to play together. Of course, there is no one-size-fits-all solution, but educating children and teenagers so that they better understand what is happening to elderly relatives will help.

After five years, the Alzheimer’s Society education programme is in some 600 schools and has reached a quarter of a million children.

If we can help them to understand dementia at an early age, Angela Rippon says, ‘they will take the knowledge forward into maturity.

‘They will recognise dementia in their families or people they meet in the street. They won’t be impatient or unkind. They will know how to deal with it, and they will pass that understanding on.’

The goal is nothing short of societal change, and the creation of a ‘dementia-friendly generation’.

John Ramsay also believes this is of paramount importance. He grew up in a family affected by dementia and is evangelical about helping children stay close to relatives who have the condition.

His grandmother was diagnosed when he was very young and died when he was ten. His father then developed early-onset dementia, and died when John was 22.

‘When I think of Grandma Clare, I remember a lady who knew nothing, remembered nothing and behaved bizarrely. We were told to be kind to her, and we were, and she’d laugh and laugh at anything we said.

‘I remember sitting on my father’s knee when I was very small and saying: “Promise you won’t turn into Grandma Clare.” It’s harrowing to remember that.’

He now travels around care homes selling Tovertafel (Dutch for ‘magic table’), a colourful game with projected lights designed for people with dementia — and children can play, too.

My research on the condition for articles and a radio programme led me to write a children’s picture book that gives parents a simple way to explain to the very young why someone with dementia is behaving oddly.

Travels With My Granny follows an older woman who voyages in her mind — revisiting her exciting past in Rome, Jerusalem, London and New York — and the grandchild who, through Granny’s reminiscences, travels with her.

‘The grown-ups think Granny is confused and doesn’t know where she is,’ the grandchild says. ‘I think she knows exactly where she is; it just isn’t where the grown-ups are.’

It’s this simple acceptance of different ways of seeing the world that could make children the key to changing society’s approach to people with dementia.

Travels With My Granny by Juliet Rix, Otter-Barry Books, £11.99. Offer price £9.59 (20 pc discount) until November 29, 2018. Order at mailshop.co.uk/books or call 0844 571 0640; p&p free on orders over £15. Spend £30 on books and get FREE premium delivery. For further information, contact Alzheimer’s Society, alzheimers.org.uk; helpline 0300 222 1122.

====== 1934 ========

INSIDE CLARIDGES DOCUMENTARY TEAM TURN CAMERAS ON LONDON’S CORINTHIA WHERE ROOMS COST £22K A NIGHT

Do you get a decently stocked minibar when you book the Royal Penthouse, the finest suite at the Corinthia Hotel, just a step from London’s Trafalgar Square? Don’t be daft.

There’s nothing mini about the full-sized bar that comes as part of the package. It’s stocked with the finest cognac and champagne. Oh, and the suite also has its own wine cellar should you require a specific tipple.

The scale of the place becomes apparent when your personal butler points out the internal lift that whisks you between floors. Yes, floors, plural.

So how much bang do you get for your buck in a place like this? Well, for starters you get four bedrooms, a dining room that seats ten, an office where there are not one but three TV screens on the wall (hotel manager Thomas Kochs suggests guests who stay here like to keep up with the stock markets) and your own private spa.

The main bathroom has a bath the size of a plunge pool and the surfaces are fashioned from honey onyx and Skyros marble. And suffice to say none of the furnishings have been sourced in Ikea.

The team behind hit documentary series Inside Claridges, including award-winning filmmaker Jane Treays, have turned their cameras on London's Corinthia hotel (pictured)

The Royal Penthouse, which costs £22,000 a night, comes with a full-sized bar (pictured) stocked with the finest cognac and champagne

Every piece in these rooms has been hand made. The dining table is Makassar ebony, the bed frames are walnut, and the expansive bookshelves are leather-lined. Oak parquet floors run throughout, and bouquets of fresh flowers are everywhere.

So, what does it cost to stay in a place like this? Well, this suite will set you back £22,000 a night. Blimey! Can anyone afford to stay more than one night? ‘One client stayed for six months,’ says Mr Kochs, deadpan.

It’s jaw-dropping to see such wealth close up. The Corinthia is the latest of the big London hotels to open its doors for the fly-on-the-wall documentary treatment.

Award-winning filmmaker Jane Treays, the woman behind the hugely successful series on Claridges (in which Mr Kochs, then the general manager at that hotel, became the break-out star) who has also made films on the Queen and the Duchess of Cornwall, was the obvious choice to direct the two-part production.

So did she get to stay in the Royal Penthouse for the duration of filming? Alas no. ‘I didn’t stay in the hotel at all,’ she says, ‘although we were there for filming a few times in the middle of the night. There is something quite lovely about that, when all is still.’

Still-ish. The silence in this hotel is regularly broken by the arrival of the room service trolley.

Who knew that guests here can order thousands of pounds worth of room service food at a time – and in the middle of the night? Middle Eastern guests like to eat during the night, we are told.

Some guests can’t find a thing they like even on the copious menu, and there’s an eyebrow-raising sequence where a celebrity guest (we are not told who) asks reception staff to arrange a takeaway from one of the capital’s leading restaurants.

No matter that the establishment doesn’t do takeaways – it does on this occasion, rather proving the adage that the guest is always right.

The hotel, which isn't even the most expensive in London, has played host to the likes of Will.i.am and former president Bill Clinton

Managing Director Thomas Kochs, pictured centre with the hotel chefs, revealed that one guest stayed in a £22,000-a-night room for six months

This is an extraordinary programme, delivering not just the gawk factor, but offering an insight into London’s hotel wars, where the big high-end establishments compete to attract the monied guests coming to the capital in their droves.

‘London is one of the hotel capitals of the world,’ says Jane, ‘and the competition to attract guests is intense and relentless. They’re all upping their game, particularly when it comes to offering the big penthouses.’

She’s not kidding. The Royal Penthouse isn’t even the most expensive in London – that accolade goes to the Sterling Suite at the Langham Hotel, which costs an estimated £26,000 a night – and there is quite furious competition to be seen as the best.

‘I wanted to explore how a hotel like the Corinthia, which doesn’t have the years of tradition of somewhere like Claridges or The Ritz, can compete,’ says Jane. ‘It’s a modern hotel – and this is a modern dilemma about how to be relevant in a fast-changing industry.’

The Corinthia, open for just seven years (the premises used to belong to the Ministry of Defence), does compete, certainly on the celebrity guest front. One who arrives during filming is former US President Bill Clinton who, true to form, makes the housekeeping staff swoon a little.

President Clinton doesn’t allow the cameras to have a peek into his suite, but The Voice judge will.i.am does. The Corinthia is will.i.am’s home when he’s in London (this time he is booked in for ten weeks) but he’s picky about which suite he prefers.

The Royal Penthouse is (mercifully for his accountant, perhaps) ‘too big for me’, he explains. ‘If Beyoncé was here, she’d be in the Royal Penthouse.’ His favourite is the Musician’s Penthouse, which has a grand piano.

The actor Cuba Gooding Jr is another long-term guest. He’s been staying at the Corinthia during a stint on stage in the West End, and admits to conflicted feelings about hotels.

He tells the story of when his mum and dad split up, he had to flit from hotel to hotel, and made a vow to himself that when he was a grown-up, he would never ever stay in another hotel. ‘And I’m back in these damn hotels,’ he grins. ‘But they are so much nicer.’

The main bathroom in the Royal Penthouse has a bath the size of a plunge pool and the surfaces are fashioned from honey onyx and Skyros marble

While the famous faces give this documentary the glamour factor, it’s the staff who give it its heart. There are 500 people employed in the hotel, from 54 countries.

‘What struck me was the pride they take in their work,’ says Jane. ‘In the UK we can be sniffy about the service industry. That baffles them.’

It is extraordinarily touching to hear how Yvette, who came to the UK from Bulgaria, regards her work. Her first job in this country was as a strawberry picker, then she started as a room attendant at the Corinthia, and has since been promoted to first floor supervisor.

Yvette is a documentary-maker’s delight, complaining that her smart grey uniform makes her look like her grandmother, and explaining that she regards the rooms she is in charge of as her daughters. When a guest leaves a room in a state she thinks of it in terms of her ‘little one being a teenager’.

Among the local staff is Kevin, a lawyer who takes three afternoons off work each week to play the piano for guests enjoying afternoon tea. Actually, afternoon tea is one of the most pressing issues at the hotel.

While the cameras are furiously filming as new resident chef Tom Kerridge settles in – another big signing, aimed at attracting the celebrity clientele – they are also in evidence at the meetings held to discuss the new afternoon tea menu.

Afternoon teas, it seems, are another battleground in the London hotel wars, with the big establishments vying for that particular market. Cue an overhaul here, with some very, very protracted meetings about sandwiches.

Jane laughs. ‘I asked what there was to discuss about sandwiches, and was told ‘a lot’. There’s the softness of the bread, the ratio of filling to bread, how traditional the filling needs to be.

‘I think it shows the extraordinary attention to detail that goes into running a hotel like this,’ she says. ‘Nothing is left to chance.’

Even the tea selection borders on the obscene. Guests can choose from 26 varieties, the leaves are weighed out on antique scales and the teacups... well, they’re gold-plated. Naturally.

A Hotel For The Super Rich & Famous, Thursday, 8pm, BBC1.

====== 1935 ========

LOVE ISLAND: THE CHRISTMAS REUNION WILL SEE SHOW'S EX COUPLES AWKWARDLY COME FACE-TO-FACE

Love Island's fourth series sent fans into overdrive this summer and now it's set to return for a festive special.

ITV have confirmed that 19 islanders will be back to get a grilling from host Caroline Flack, as they reunite at a festive retreat to spill all on what's been going on since they left the villa many months ago.

And it seems along with the show's successful love stories, such as that of winners Dani Dyer and Jack Fincham, Love Island's ex-couples are in for an awkward reunion as they finally come face-to-face.

Confirmed! Love Island's fourth series sent fans into overdrive this summer and now it's set to return for a festive special with winners Jack Fincham and Dani Dyer and many more

All four remaining Love Island couples will be dishing all on how their romance has survived back on home soil, with Megan Barton-Hanson and Wes Nelson, Adam Collard and Zara McDermott and Kaz Crossley - who will appear solo as beau Josh Denzel is filming in the US - will join Dani and Jack.

But viewers will no doubt be more intrigued by the villa's ex-couples who are set to come face-to-face for the Christmas special - especially as their splits have played out publicly with many being plagued by 'cheating' accusations.

Laura Anderson will be reunited with former boyfriend Paul Knops. They split in September, blaming their busy working schedules for driving them apart.

Eek: Love Island's ex-couples (including Georgia Steel and Sam Bird above) are in for an awkward reunion as they'll come face-to-face at the festive retreat

Success: All of Love Island's four remaining couples - including winners Dani and Jack - will be on the show to discuss how their romances have fared on home soil

Flying solo! While Kaz Crossley and Josh Denzel are still together - only Kaz will appear on the special as Josh is filming in the US

At the time, Laura had hit back at accusations their relationship was 'fake' and insisted the romance had been very 'real' for her.

In the weeks that followed their break up, Laura confirmed her romance with Love Island series two winner Max Morley and was later hit by claims she had been 'secretly dating' Max while she was with Paul.

The blonde vehemently denied the claims, with her rep insisting the accusations were 'total nonsense'.

Still going strong: Megan Barton-Hanson and Wes Nelson's relationship has blossomed since their time together in the villa

Serious: The duo have now moved in together in London and are often seen packing on the PDA across social media

Ellie Brown and Charlie Brake, meanwhile, announced their split at the beginning of October.

Ellie confessed she was left 'heartbroken' over the failed romance, with her co-star Laura claiming Charlie dumped Ellie by announcing it on social media without her knowledge.

Charlie was linked to string of beauties in the wake of their split and found himself at the centre of claims he had been 'unfaithful' to Ellie, after she was sent a photo of him 'having dinner with another woman'.

Awkward: Laura Anderson will be reunited with former boyfriend Paul Knops - they split in September, blaming their busy working schedules for driving them apart

Moved on: Laura is now dating Love Island series two winner Max Morley

Awkward: Ellie and Charlie split at the beginning of October and Charlie has been linked to a string of beauties ever since

Ellie is rumoured to be dating former TOWIE star Joey Essex, while Charlie has found himself linked to Ferne McCann.

Meanwhile, Georgia Steel and Sam Bird are in for an awkward encounter following their split last month.

Sam revealed that the duo had ended their relationship, after Georgia stayed at her ex-boyfriend's house while dating him. She has insisted that she 'never cheated' on Sam with her ex, but admitted to staying with her former flame.

Following their break up, Sam admitted he was 'devastated' while Georgia has said she is 'happier than ever' being a 'single pringle' - confessing she 'fell out of love' with Sam.

End of the road: Georgia Steel and Sam Bird split last month, with Georgia claiming she is 'happier than ever' since the break up

Still searching for love? Eyal had appeared on Celebs Go Dating following his early Love Island exit and attempted to find romance with an ordinary member of the public

Single ladies: Kendall Rae Knight (L) and Samira Mighty (R) will be back for the reunion show

Other Love Island stars set to appear include Samira Mighty, following the breakdown of her relationship with Frankie Foster, Dr Alex and Alexandra Crane.

Kendall Rae Knight, who was linked to last year's show winner Kem Cetinay, will return, as well as Hayley Hughes, who is now dating DJ Tom Zanetti and Eyal Booker.

Eyal had appeared on Celebs Go Dating following his early Love Island exit and attempted to find love with an ordinary member of the public. He starred alongside Chloe Sims, Olivia Attwood and Alik Alfus.

Caroline Flack will be back at the helm of the show and raising a glass to Love Island's class of 2018, while Iain Stirling will provide a voice over for the special.

ITV are yet to confirm an air date for the festive special.

She's back! Caroline Flack will be back at the helm of the show and raising a glass to Love Island's class of 2018, while Iain Stirling will provide a voice over for the special

====== 1936 ========

CHERYL RELEASES CLEAN VERSION OF LOVE MADE ME DO IT AFTER BACKLASH

Cheryl was looking sensational in edgy black sunglasses on Thursday as she took to Instagram to post a boomerang snap while prepping for her next live performance in Hits Radio Live in Manchester.

Later that day, the 35-year-old British songstress released a clean version of latest single Love Made Me Do It, following the backlash surrounding her 'raunchy' X Factor performance last week.

With the original single slipping down the charts, fans took to Twitter to suggest the star's latest release is an attempt to boost sales.

Gorgeous: Cheryl was looking sensational in edgy black sunglasses on Thursday as she took to Instagram to post a boomerang snap while prepping for her next live performance in Hits Radio Live in Manchester

Taking to the micro-blogging site, one social media user penned: 'Getting desperate for sales now?'

In agreement, another wrote: 'I don't think it will help and the album is not even out yet. Time to look at the feedback from the masses and strategies!'

However, some listeners took delight in the new edition, with one tweeting: 'I needed a clean version for my niece who adores you. Thanks @CherylOfficial Always thinking of inclusivity. X'

Glamorous: The 35-year-old singer has been putting on a defiant display following the backlash around her X Factor performance

New release: Later that day, the British songstress dropped a clean version of latest single Love Made Me Do It

Hitting a bum note: With the original single slipping down the charts, fans took to Twitter to suggest the star's latest release is an attempt to boost sales

Another said: 'Love both versions. so awesome. can't wait for the video, there is another video, right? it's just not me imagining it, because I want more.'

Meanwhile, in recent snaps, Cheryl posed up a storm in the Matrix-esque glasses and a black coat as she appeared to be in a dressing room of sorts, taking a breather as she practices for her next showcase.

She will take to the stage on Sunday to perform her newest single Love Made Me Do It, though a tweet also seems to hint she will perform her 2009 classic Fight For This Love.

Fan favourites: However, some listeners took delight in the new edition, with one tweeting: 'I needed a clean version for my niece who adores you. Thanks @CherylOfficial Always thinking of inclusivity. X'

Posting a dancing baby GIF with the words Like A Boss, Cheryl wrote: 'Me rehearsing FFTL and remembering it...'

The mother-of-one will be hoping to turn around public opinion with the Manchester show, after the backlash surrounding her X Factor show.

Cheryl was criticised for performing a 'raunchy' routine on the family friendly show, and her live vocals also didn't go down well with some of her fans.

Working hard: The star has been rehearsing for her show at Hits Radio Live in Manchester, as she also hinted in a tweet she will performing her 2009 classic Fight For This Love

At time of publication, Love Made Me Do It sat at number 19 in the Official Singles Chart, number 62 on Apple's Chart, number 74 in Apple's UK Chart. She did not appear in the Top 200 or Viral Top 50 on Spotify.

Despite this, Spotify gave the star a nod in its 'Hot Hits' category, which Cheryl gave a nod to on her Instagram stories by thanking the streaming service.

Touching on her fluctuating position, sources told The Sun: 'It’s dropping down the rankings fast this week despite it being her big comeback. It could easily end up falling further by the time the final charts are unveiled on Friday.'

After becoming aware of the mixed reviews, Cheryl herself posted an impassioned message on Twitter on Tuesday, defending herself, after her performance garnered 45 Ofcom complaints.

She said that her single might not be to everyone's taste, but she had watched back the performance and loved it, despite claims she had been left devastated over the negative comments she received about her live vocals.

In a strongly-worded message, the singer did admit that her music and performances 'aren't for everyone.'

Working hard: The mother-of-one has been working hard to prepare for her next show, ahead of taking to the stage again on Sunday

The Twitter post read: 'I wanted to start by saying thank you all so much for your lovely comments and support for my performance on Sunday. You may not have read about them but I definitely saw and felt them!'

She continued: 'Having spent 16 years in the public eye I have always been accepting of people's opinions. Me personally, my music and performances are never going to be for everyone, And that's OK.'

Cheryl ended the message by addressing reports she has been watching her performance back on repeat, writing: 'Ps.... I did watch my performance back and I LOVED IT!'

Controversial: Cheryl was criticised for performing a 'raunchy' routine on the family friendly show, and her live vocals also didn't go down well with some of her fans

Something to say: She then hit back after her X Factor comeback performance garnered negative reviews, along with 45 Ofcom complaints

As well as her Twitter message on Tuesday, Cheryl also shared an Instagram of herself confidently strutting in the ITV studios with the caption: 'Walking away from negativity like'

According to The Sun, she had been rewatching the clip in a bid to work out what people didn't like about her routine as it's a mystery to her.

A source told the publication: 'Cheryl's devastated over the harsh comments about her performance. She always says that 'haters' come with fame and she expects some negativity, but she didn't expect this reaction.

'Cheryl goes on social media to interact with her fans and it actually shocked her, reading some of the comments. At first she was angry – she watched the performance back over ten times and can't understand what she did wrong.'

MailOnline contacted a spokesperson for Cheryl for comment.

Defiant: Meanwhile Cheryl has hit back at all the criticism surrounding her musical comeback, posting on a confident video of her strutting through the X Factor studios on Instagram

Hitting back: The star also wrote a confident message saying that she had watched back her performance and loved it

However despite the slight negative reception, Cheryl has had much praise from fans for her first musical offering in four years.

The singer looked incredible in a tasseled black bodysuit and thigh-high boots for her big return and other viewers defended her saying 'she can't win' and praising her 'amazing' stage show.

Cheryl gyrated around the stage, at one point lying down on the floor for a sexy segment with her backing dancers, proving she still had the moves even after a four year break from performing.

The brunette beauty was back to her best, wearing her long hair down in loose curls and a bronzed make-up look.

====== 1937 ========

STEPHEN BEAR 'DATING LOVE ISLAND STAR GEORGIA HARRISON' AFTER SPLIT FROM EX ELLIE O'DONNELL

News of his split from ex-girlfriend Ellie O'Donnell only surfaced earlier this month.

But Stephen Bear has reportedly already moved on, as it's been claimed he is now dating former Love Island star Georgia Harrison.

According to The Sun, the Ex On The Beach star is said to have 'hooked up' with Georgia while filming for new MTV show The Challenge, before calling off his relationship with model Ellie over FaceTime.

New romance: Stephen Bear is reportedly dating Love Island star Georgia Harrison

Sources told the publication of the dalliance: 'After that happened he finished with Ellie over FaceTime. Now he and Georgia are seeing each other - they're an item.'

They added that Stephen's ex Ellie - who bares a striking resemblance to Georgia - is 'fuming' with the reality star.

MailOnline have contacted representatives for Stephen Bear and Georgia Harrison for comment.

Both Bear and Georgia are filming over in the States for The Challenge - a US show that airs on MTV and sees alumni from the network's shows Are You The One?, US Big Brother, Ex On The Beach and Geordie Shore compete against one another to win a cash prize.

Drama: According to The Sun, Bear 'hooked up' with Georgia while filming for new MTV show The Challenge, before calling off his relationship with model Ellie (above) over FaceTime

Hook up: Sources told the publication of his dalliance with Georgia: 'After that happened he finished with Ellie over FaceTime. Now he and Georgia are seeing each other - they're an item'

Bear starred on two series of Ex On The Beach - the third series which saw him find love with ex-girlfriend Vicky Pattison and series five where he was seen getting together with Gaz Beadle's ex Lillie Lexie Gregg.

He also starred on Celebrity Big Brother and went on to win the show, despite cheating on former love Lillie with Chloe Khan on national TV.

Georgia, meanwhile, found fame on The Only Way Is Essex before appearing on Love Island's third series as a late arrival and striking up a romance with Sam Gowland - who has since joined Geordie Shore and is now dating Chloe Ferry.

Claims Georgia and Bear are now dating come after his ex-girlfriend Ellie recently confirmed their split for the second time.

Scandal: They added that Stephen's ex Ellie - who bares a striking resemblance to Georgia - is 'fuming' with the reality star

In a now-deleted Instagram story, Ellie revealed she and Bear are no longer together and has since removed all traces of him from her Instagram account.

Ellie shared a message with her followers that addressed the couple's break up, without going in to detail about the reasons why they have decided to split so soon after rekindling their romance.

It read: 'I'm just putting this out there as I've had a million messages about it and want to clear it up - Stephen and I are no longer together.

She claims she was the one to end the relationship, as she continued: 'I have broken up with Stephen which is why I have taken down everything of him on my social media.

'Although I have been in contact with him last week which helped me make my decision, he is still currently away filming for a show so he isn't active on social media until he is back, which is why everything of me is still on his Instagram.'

All over: Bear and ex-girlfriend Ellie have split once again, with the model confirming their break up in a now-deleted Instagram story

Split: The blonde beauty told fans she and former CBB winner Bear are no longer together, as she appeared to confirm their break-up in a now deleted post to her Instagram story

While Ellie didn't mention Bear's supposed new romance, she did allude to drama occurring between the pair, as she added: 'Despite everything that's happened which I won't go into detail about, I wish Stephen well.'

When contacted about the split, a representative for Stephen declined to comment.

Ellie and Bear were last pictured on his Instagram together in October, with the reality star not sharing anything since last month online.

In his last post, he revealed to fan's he was taking part in another show (revealed to be The Challenge), suggesting it was a competition of some sort as he wrote: 'Time to go and cement my legacy on another programme. I’m coming to win baby .. see everyone soon.'

Cryptic: While she gave no details of the split, Ellie alluded to drama occurring between the pair, as she said: 'Despite everything that's happened which I won't go into detail about, I wish Stephen well'

Shock: The split comes just over a month after the duo had rekindled their relationship in September - just a week after splitting first time round

Smitten: A loved-up Bear had confirmed the reunion on Instagram, as he shared a photo with Huddersfield beauty Ellie and vowed 'never to drift apart' from the model again

He and Ellie had only rekindled their romance at the end of September - a week after splitting for the first time.

Bear confirmed their reunion with a loved-up snap of the pair together at Thorpe Park and vowed 'never to drift apart' from Ellie again.

Days earlier he had confirmed the couple's split, as a spokesperson for Bear told The Sun that he had chosen to end his relationship with Ellie to 'focus on his career'.

He and Huddersfield beauty Ellie - who reached the semi-finals of Miss England 2016 - first began dating in April, just four months after Bear's bitter split from ex-girlfriend and former Geordie Shore star Charlotte Crosby.

End of the road: Ellie and Bear were last pictured on his Instagram together in October, with the reality star not sharing anything since last month online

Moving on: Bear is said to be filming for a new show which has seen him go off the grid since mid-October - he told fans he 'aims to win' his new project but didn't reveal any further details

Bear and Charlotte had seemed infatuated with one another, even talking about marriage and babies throughout their 11-month relationship, before its tumultuous nature saw the duo end things for good last year.

They sparked up a romance after falling for each other on set of MTV reality show Just Tattoo Of Us which Bear had previously co-hosted with Charlotte. He has since left the series and she now presents alone with a series of guest presenters.

Charlotte is now dating Ex On The Beach star Joshua Ritchie.

====== 1938 ========

BUSY PHILIPPS SHARES HILARIOUS PHOTO OF DAUGHTER CRICKET ACCIDENTALLY THREATENING HER WITH A KNIFE

It looked like a sweet photo... until closer inspection.

Busy Philipps shared a hilarious pic of her little girl Cricket accidentally threatening her with a blade on Friday.

The 39-year-old was trying to capture a tender mother and daughter moment of the two hugging, only discovering afterwards that the five-year-old was armed.

'I didn't know she had a knife against my head': Busy Philipps shared a hilarious pic of her little girl Cricket accidentally threatening her with a blade on Friday

'I didn't know she had a knife against my head,' she admitted in the caption.

The child staring into the camera and wearing Mickey Mouse ears somehow manage to make the whole scenario look even more sinister.

The family — which also includes Busy's husband Marc Silverstein and ten-year-old daughter Birdie — are currently enjoying a Disney Cruise Vacation.

'Actual photo of me on a conference call this afternoon,' she captioned an earlier shot of herself enjoying a Corona on the beach.

Showing some skin: The actress is enjoying a Disney Cruise Vacation with her family

The Busy Tonight host wore a pair of black and red sequin Minnie Mouse ears and dressed in a red bikini top that flashed some underboob.

The actress called attention to the sliver of skin with the hashtag, #accidentalunderboob.

The Dawson's Creek alum is enjoying a vacation while her E! talk show goes on hiatus for the holiday.

Nice: She's also been enjoying some beach stopovers

Happiest place on earth: Also joining the Dawson's Creek star on the floating amusement park are daughter 10-year-old Birdie and husband Marc Silverstein

Accessorizing: Like a champ, Busy has been rocking her festive sequin Minnie Mouse ears during the whole trip

In another social media photo, Busy appeared to have replaced her husband of 11 years with a new man.

Cricket, Birdie and Busy looked overjoyed as they took the air on the boat deck with none other than the King of the Mouse House himself, Mickey.

The leggy blonde has been nonstop sharing her trip with her 1.4M Instagram followers.

Second time around: Last year the family went on their first Disney Cruise together and decided to go back for round two

Having a blast: Cricket, 5, couldn't be bothered with her mom while she was pampered at the princess spa

And, this isn't her first rodeo with a Disney Cruise and the world traveler has apparently learned a thing or two about navigating the high seas.

'So if you guys read my book or you followed me a year and a half ago, you know about my Disney cruise adventure, you know that I spent a billion dollars on the WiFi,' she in an Instagram video.

Adding: 'I basically posted for seven days straight last time, and this time I asked if there was any way they would give me free WiFi and they said yes, so don't worry.'

Lesson learned: 'So if you guys read my book or you followed me a year and a half ago, you know about my Disney cruise adventure, you know that I spent a billion dollars on the WiFi'

Perks: This year the star asked for free WiFi and has been delighting her social media following ever since climbing aboard

True to her word, fans feel like they're practically on vacation with the family of four as Busy shares all the fun.

'Found her favorite guy at the beach,' the star captioned a photo of Cricket with Frozen character Olaf.

It's not all about the kids, though. Aside from Corona's on the beach, it seems Busy has found plenty of adult fun on the ship.

'Look at what we found on the Disney Cruise,' she said on social media after spotting some tequila. 'Oh, hi Casa Dragones. This is going to be a good time on the Disney Cruise.'

Adult fun: Busy and her husband were having as much fun as the kids - especially after the talk show host found a bottle of tequila

On Friday Busy had an uncomfortable encounter when she ran into the White House Press Secretary.

Guys we just went on the Rock N' Roll Roller-coaster, and scarier than that, when I got off Sarah Huckabee Sanders was there,' she revealed in a selfie vid.

'She had a security guard so I didn't say anything but I did do this,' she said, pulling a grimace. 'I didn't want to say anything cause I didn't want to get kicked out of the park but I gave her such a mean look. And she saw it... she saw it.'

====== 1939 ========

INSIDE FLEUR EAST'S VERY STYLISH LONDON HOME: STAR BOASTS TRENDY ART DECO AND FEATURE WALLS

She's currently sleeping in a hammock and chowing down on wallaby wings as she slums it in the I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! jungle.

And Fleur East is most probably missing the comforts of home - pining for her extremely trendy pad, with its stylish accents and bold décor in Walthamstow, East London.

The 31-year-old - who made her cash when she came second on The X Factor 2014 under the tutelage of Simon Cowell, who signed her anyway and backed her debut album in December 2015 - has reflected her vibrant personality when it comes to her colourful pad.

Contemporary: Fleur East must be missing the comforts of home while she's in the I'm A Celeb jungle - pining for her trendy pad, with its stylish accents and bold décor in Walthamstow, East London

The main living area basks in light from the tall windows and makes a bold statement with feature art deco paintings in loud colours - not dissimilar to her album cover for Love, Sax and Flashbacks.

She has a teal corner sofa in a crushed velvet dotted with pillows, offset by a mustard armchair - bold against the coffee-coloured walls.

There are stepped shelves behind the sofa, with statement trinkets on them of porcelain animals, a cream shag rug and a gold-rimmed glass coffee table, decorated with books, an orchid and candles.

Another nook in the property features a second corner sofa in black, serving as a cinema area.

A far cry: She's currently sleeping in a hammock and chowing down on wallaby wings as she slums it in the I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! jungle

Cinema nook: Another nook in the property features a second corner sofa in black, serving as a cinema area. Behind this lies feature walls, with paintings of screaming faces and blocks of colour on them, and above there are painted cracks in the ceiling

At home with...: She has a teal corner sofa in a crushed velvet dotted with pillows, offset by a mustard armchair - bold against the coffee-coloured walls

Behind this lies feature walls, with paintings of screaming faces and blocks of colour on them, and above there are painted cracks in the ceiling.

In this section of the pad, Fleur has installed popcorn dispensers.

There are four bedrooms in the property, one of which serves as a walk-in wardrobe; and the Tears Will Dry songstress owns a big green velvet bed.

The star's bedside furniture is home to vintage inspired lamps and a Victorian telephone.

Onward and upward: Walking up the stairs, there are framed photos on the wall, and a mural at the top reading: 'Faith is taking the first step even when you don't see the whole staircase' - an homage to Martin Luther King

Comfy: There are four bedrooms in the property, one of which serves as a walk-in wardrobe; and the Tears Will Dry songstress owns a big green velvet bed. The star's bedside furniture is home to vintage inspired lamps and a Victorian telephone

Walking up the stairs, there are framed photos on the wall, and a mural at the top reading: 'Faith is taking the first step even when you don't see the whole staircase' - an homage to Martin Luther King.

The kitchen features yellow and mustard crockery, rose gold pans, mood lighting and statement vases.

Metro interviewed Fleur over the summer, and she explained some of the inspiration for her décor.

She said: 'The theme was love and connection. We added a varnish on to it and put some quotes on the walls.

Tasty: The kitchen features yellow and mustard crockery, rose gold pans, mood lighting and statement vases.

Walk in: The closet was formally one of the bedrooms in the four bed East London property

'I’m all about doing things on a budget. I got some great tips from interior designers I follow on Instagram.'

Fleur’s family come from the same area, and her father - who featured heavily on The X Factor when she was a contestant on it in her behind-the-scenes VTs - helped her renovate the property.

She shares it with her French designer boyfriend Marcel Badiane-Robin, whom she has been with for seven years.

====== 1940 ========

STRICTLY'S JOE SUGG AND DIANNE BUSWELL JOKE ABOUT 'BLUE BALLS' IN FLIRTY CLIPS

They have been at the centre of romance speculation since the dancer split from Emmerdale's Anthony Quinlan

And Joe Sugg and Dianne Buswell, who deny they are in a relationship, did little to extinguish the rumours as they flirted during rehearsals on Thursday.

The Youtuber, 27, made a cheeky joke about the Dianne's 'blue balls', while the professional dancer, 29, kept zooming in on Joe's crotch in a series of Instagram Story videos.

Double trouble: Joe Sugg and Dianne Buswell, who deny they are in a relationship, did little to extinguish the rumours as they flirted during rehearsals on Thursday

Joe kicked off the flirty action by sharing a video of himself chasing Dianne around the studio as she bounced a basketball.

He then posted a snap of the red-haired beauty lying on the floor between two blue exercise balls, which he captioned: '@diannebuswell has blue balls.'

And Dianne was quick to respond to the banter, sharing videos of him where she repeatedly zoomed in on his crotch.

While teasing Joe for his 'street' outfit, the dancer brought the camera closer to the Youtube sensation before joking: 'Oh, zoomed in on the wrong thing there.'

She's got some balls: The Youtuber, 27, made a cheeky joke about the Dianne's 'blue balls'

Playful: Joe kicked off the flirty action by sharing a video of himself chasing Dianne around the studio as she bounced a basketball

Look away! And Dianne was quick to respond to the banter, sharing videos of him where she repeatedly zoomed in on his crotch

Naughty: While teasing Joe for his 'street' outfit, the dancer brought the camera closer to the Youtube sensation before joking: 'Oh, zoomed in on the wrong thing there'

Joe and Dianne revealed they spend 13 hours together in training every day for their samba amid claims the pair are dating each other.

Dianne said on It Takes Two: 'It’s a very hard dance but we are working so hard we’ve worked from nine till ten everyday so far.

'So I have every bit of faith that Joe will deliver the goods, but we’re working hard so we’re doing very well.'

Dropping hints? Dianne then shared a photo of the duo as cartoons at a wedding, captioning it: 'Guess who?'

Out and about: The pair were spotted together leaving the It Takes Two recording on Thursday

Striking: Diane was sure to stand out with her bright red hair which she wore slicked back

Dapper: Joe looked handsome as he stepped out in blue slacks and a pink floral shirt

Talkative: After the recording, Joe and Dianne were seen chatting away as they left

They have reportedly been growing closer and reports claim they are enjoying a secret romance following Dianne's split from Anthony.

It's been reported by The Sun that the pair often spent time at Joe's home together, with Dianne said to have stayed over a few times.

A BBC source told the publication: 'Joe and Dianne are keeping things low-key but they’re having a lot of fun. Everyone on set has noticed how close they’ve become.

'They’re definitely more than just friends. They are very fond of each other. They are hoping to stay in the contest for as long as possible and are trying to focus on dancing for now, but they’re seeing where things go.'

Close pals: Joe and Dianne revealed they spend 13 hours together in training every day for their samba amid claims the pair are dating each other

Hmm: They have reportedly been growing closer and reports claim they are enjoying a secret romance following Dianne's split from Emmerdale's Anthony Quinlan

Glam: Also seen out on Thursday was Katya Jones who opted for a grand look as she paired a black dress with a fluffy grey coat

Gal pals: Katya was joined by fellow professional dancer Amy Dowden who kept warm in a large black coat

Stylish: The dancer completed her look with a pair of gold heels

Casual chic: Zoe Ball looked comfy as she stepped out in a turtleneck jumper and denim jeans

Loved-up: Married couple Janette Manrara and Aljaz Skorjanec held hands as they left the Grosvenor Hotel in Mayfair

Suited and booted: Johannes Radebe looked sharp in his all-black ensemble

Chic: Nadiya Bychkova donned a fluffy black coat over a figure-hugging grey dress

====== 1941 ========

DIANA ROSS RIDES THANKSGIVING PARADE FLOAT SUPPORTED BY SON EVAN, HIS WIFE ASHLEE SIMPSON AND KIDS

Evan Ross and Ashlee Simpson bundled up warm and brought along their kids to the Macy's Thanksgiving Parade.

The couple were there to support Evan's mom Diana Ross who had her own float in the annual extravaganza in Manhattan, New York.

They joined other Ross family members including Black-ish star Tracee Ellis Ross - with everyone dressed in all white ensembles on the chilly Thursday.

Celebrating the holiday: Evan Ross and Ashlee Simpson bundled up warm and brought along their kids to the Macy's Thanksgiving Parade. The family were dressed in all-white ensembles

Superstar: They were there to support Evan's mom Diana Ross who had her own float in the annual extravaganza in Manhattan, New York

Ashlee, 34, wore her long blonde hair loose under a knitted hat with a faux fur bobble on top. She added a long fluffy stole over a winter coat and flared trousers.

Her son Bronx, 10, from her first marriage to Pete Wentz, also wore a knit beanie along with an Aran sweater, skinny jeans and trainers and a padded hooded jacket.

Evan, 30, who wed Ashlee in 2014, chose a sheepskin coat with trousers and athletic shoes and carried his and Ashlee's daughter Jagger in his arm.

Jagger, three, was dressed in a large fluffy hat with a padded jacket, frilly frock, tights and gold boots.

Couple: Ashlee, 34, wore a knit hat with a faux fur bobble and added a long fluffy stole over a winter coat and flared pants. Evan, 30 chose a sheepskin coat with trousers and athletic shoes

On their way: Evan wore his trademark wide-brimmed hat as he traveled with his family to the parade and shared this snap to Instagram to wish his fans a Happy Thanksgiving

Kids: With the couple were Ashlee's son Bronx, 10, from her first marriage to Pete Wentz and her daughter with Evan, three-year-old Jagger. Both were also dressed in white

Diana, 74, rode the parade accompanied by a pre-recorded version of her singing the Paul McCartney song Wonderful Christmastime.

The legendary superstar, however, opted to not even pretend to be singing live and refused to use a microphone to go with her lip-synching.

And Twitter loved it!

The clan: The singer's family all lined up for a snap at the Diana Ross playground

'Diana Ross, not even bothering to lipsync. Like the legend she is. #MacysParade,' one user wrote.

'Love how Diana Ross is like f*** the mic, I'll just have my hair blowing in my face,' another tweeted.

'Diana Ross ain’t having it today! Y’all know I can sing, just play my s*** & let me stand up there!' joked a third.

Supportive: On the float with the iconic singer were her actress daughter, Black-ish star Tracee Ellis Ross, (top of the steps) as well as Evan and Ashlee and the kids

Her way: Diana, 74, rode the parade accompanied by a pre-recorded version of her singing the Paul McCartney song Wonderful Christmastime. The legendary superstar opted to not even pretend to be singing live and refused to use a microphone to go with her lip-synching

====== 1942 ========

CHARLOTTE CROSBY LOOKS CHIC IN GLITTERING STRIPED TROUSERS FOR DATE NIGHT WITH JOSHUA RITCHIE

Her ex Stephen Bear has been in the headlines this week thanks to a big twist in his love life.

But Charlotte Crosby wasn't letting the drama of her ex bother her as she headed out with boyfriend Josh Ritchie on Thursday to enjoy a dinner date at the Menagerie Bar and Restaurant in Manchester.

Charlotte looked super chic in festive glittering trousers as she held hands with her handsome beau outside the eatery.

What drama? Her ex Stephen Bear has been in the headlines this week thanks to a big twist in his love life. But Charlotte Crosby wasn't letting the drama of her ex bother her as she headed out with boyfriend Josh Ritchie on Thursday

The ex Geordie Short star teamed her flared trousers with a tight black top and designer belt, while her long blonde locks hung loose around her shoulders.

Josh meanwhile kept things casual in a baggy t-shirt and trainers.

The couple, who have have cameras following their every month in recent months for the new series of The Charlotte Show, began their romance earlier this year, following her painful split from Stephen Bear

Wow factor: Charlotte looked super chic in festive glittering trousers as she held hands with her handsome beau outside the eatery

Stephen meanwhile has moved on from Ellie O'Donnell, with reports surfacing on Thursday that he is now dating former Love Island star Georgia Harrison.

According to The Sun, the Ex On The Beach star is said to have 'hooked up' with Georgia while filming for new MTV show The Challenge, before calling off his relationship with model Ellie over FaceTime.

Sources told the publication of the dalliance: 'After that happened he finished with Ellie over FaceTime. Now he and Georgia are seeing each other - they're an item.'

New romance: Charlotte's ex Stephen Bear is reportedly dating Love Island star Georgia Harrison, it was revealed on Thursday

Drama: According to The Sun, Bear 'hooked up' with Georgia while filming for new MTV show The Challenge, before calling off his relationship with model Ellie (above) over FaceTime

They added that Stephen's ex Ellie - who bares a striking resemblance to Georgia - is 'fuming' with the reality star.

Stephen and Huddersfield beauty Ellie - who reached the semi-finals of Miss England 2016 - first began dating in April, just four months after Bear's bitter split from ex-girlfriend and former Geordie Shore star Charlotte.

Bear and Charlotte had seemed infatuated with one another, even talking about marriage and babies throughout their 11-month relationship, before its tumultuous nature saw the duo end things for good last year.

They sparked up a romance after falling for each other on set of MTV reality show Just Tattoo Of Us which Bear had previously co-hosted with Charlotte. He has since left the series and she now presents alone with a series of guest presenters.

MailOnline have contacted representatives for Stephen Bear and Georgia Harrison for comment.

====== 1943 ========

TOWIE'S SHELBY TRIBBLE AND BFF CLELIA THEODOROU STUN AT CHARITY EVENT IN LONDON

She frequently turns heads when stepping out for glitzy industry events.

So it's no surprise Shelby Tribble dazzled as she joined her BFF Clelia Theodorou at Chicks' charity event at The Waldorf Hilton in London on Thursday evening.

The TOWIE star, 25, pulled out all the stops as she slipped her enviable figure into a cobalt blue gown, complete with a sizzling one-shoulder feature.

Working it! Shelby Tribble (L) dazzled as she joined her BFF Clelia Theodorou (R) at Chicks' charity event at The Waldorf Hilton in London on Thursday evening

Flashing a hint of her lean legs, the model's garment came complete with a risque thigh-high slit.

The TV personality ensured all eyes were on her as she boosted her frame in a pair of metallic strappy heels and accessorised with diamond stud earrings.

Styled her tresses in a poker straight fashion, Shelby amplified her beauty with a neutral-toned make-up palette.

Ooh-la-la: The TOWIE star, 25, pulled out all the stops as she slipped her enviable figure into a cobalt blue gown, complete with a sizzling one-shoulder feature

Leggy: Flashing a hint of her lean pins, the model's garment came complete with a risque thigh-high slit

Chic: The TV personality ensured all eyes were on her as she boosted her frame in a pair of metallic strappy heels and accessorised with diamond stud earrings

Meanwhile, Clelia, 23, looked equally chic in an off-shoulder white jumpsuit, embellished with sheer ruched sleeves.

Centering focus on her striking appearance, Miss Great Britain 2014 enhanced her height with pointed stilettos.

The brunette added a pop of colour to her look with dark brown eyeshadow, while framing her stunning visage with tight curls.

Chicks is a national children's charity providing free respite breaks to children aged 8-15.

Style savvy: Meanwhile, Clelia, 23, looked equally chic in an off-shoulder white jumpsuit, embellished with sheer ruched sleeves

Sizzling: Lizzie Cundy commanded attention in a metallic green gown, which worked well with her animal print clutch

Youthful: The 50-year-old TV personality injected even more sparkle into her look with silver peep-toe heels

Meanwhile, Shelby appears to have moved on from her split with Pete Wicks, as she enjoyed a brief fling with Sam Mucklow.

Shortly after her split from Pete, 29, the brunette admitted she was 'devastated' to find out that her former beau had also been sending sexually explicit messages with up to ten women.

Speaking candidly with The Sun, the reality star said: 'I was devastated, I thought he was The One but after reading those texts I was left heartbroken.'

She continued: 'He was sexting another girl and talking about joining the Mile High Club with her.

'Someone else sent nude pictures to him. I saw all these messages to other girls on Instagram, other texts in his archive – in fact some of the texts were sent just two days before we were due to go to a wedding together in Croatia.'

Meanwhile, on the latest series of TOWIE, Shelby became extremely close with sportsman Sam, 26, with the pair even enjoying rock-climbing date.

However, the co-stars agreed that they were better off as close pals, and Sam went on to pursue a romance with Lauren Pope.

Taking the plunge: Presenter Tonia Buxton complemented her slender frame in a black sequin gown

====== 1944 ========

BEBE REXHA SHOWS SOME SKIN IN PLUNGING RED GLITTER DRESS TEAMED WITH THIGH-HIGH BOOTS

She is in Europe for a pre-Christmas promo tour.

And after a busy day in Paris on Wednesday, Bebe Rexha saw the sights of London on Thursday, heading out for dinner at Kensington celeb-favourite, The Ivy.

The US singer looked sensational in a deep red dress which glittered in the London lights.

Fun in the UK: She is in Europe for a pre-Christmas promo tour. And after a busy day in Paris on Wednesday, Bebe Rexha saw the sights of London on Thursday

Bebe, 29, showed some skin in the plunging frock, while she added a pair of black velvet thigh-high boots for an extra touch of glam.

A chunky belt highlighted her trim waist, and an effortlessly cool wavy hair style completed her dinner date ensemble.

Bebe has become known for her edgy sense of style, catchy pop tunes and stellar songwriting skills since she burst onto the music scene in 2013.

Dressed for dinner: The singer hit Kensington restaurant The Ivy, looking gorgeous in her glam glittering dress

But the singer has revealed she once sold perfume to Rihanna, just one year before writing the singer's number one track The Monster.

Speaking on Good Morning Britain, the blonde beauty discussed her humble beginnings in the music industry, where she served the Umbrella hitmaker in a department store in 2012.

One year later the pair's paths would collide when Bebe's track The Monster was recorded by Eminem and Rihanna, topping the UK and US singles charts.

She said: 'I actually sold perfume to Rihanna, funnily enough.

Chic: Bebe, 29, showed some skin in the plunging frock, while she added a pair of black velvet thigh-high boots for an extra touch of glam

'Saks Fifth Avenue, the Harrods of the US, she came to the counter with red lipstick, sunglasses on, I had no idea that a year later I would have written a Number 1 song she would have been on. It changed my life completely.'

Bebe has written several songs for other artists - including "Like a Champion" for Selena Gomez and Eminem and Rihanna's 'The Monster' before signing her own record deal.

She started off her career six years ago when she joined the group Black Cards as lead vocalist- which was formed by Fall Out Boy's Pete Wentz.

After two years in the group she left to pursue her solo career and also penned a plethora of high-profile songs for a-listers, including Eminem and Rihanna's Number one single - The Monster.

Inevitably her talents allowed her to be the star attraction and her single with rapper G-Eazy 'Me, Myself and I' shot to number one on the Billboard Hot Rap Songs chart late last year.

====== 1945 ========

TAMARA BECKWITH TALKS ABOUT BECOMING A GRANDMOTHER AT 48 AND HAVING DAUGHTER ANOUSHKA AT 16

She previously spoke about her new role as a grandmother, revealing she wants to be a 'glam-ma' not a grandma.

And Tamara Beckwith spoke about her relationship with daughter Anoushka, 31, and becoming a grandmother at the age of 48 during her appearance on Loose Women on Thursday.

The It Girl, who welcomed her eldest daughter at the tender age of 16, became a grandmother to baby Luna back in August.

Family: Tamara Beckwith spoke about her relationship with daughter Anoushka, 31, and being a grandmother at the age of 48 during her appearance on Loose Women on Thursday

Speaking about her experience as a young mum, she told the panel: 'I don't feel 48. With Anoushka I had her so young. I was 16 and 11 months. I was just elated because Anoushka was this gorgeous little girl.

'Sadly my mother died seven years ago, but she was only 40 when Anoushka was born.'

Anouska previously claimed she spent many of her early years with her grandparents while Tamara pursued a hard-partying lifestyle.

Next generation: The It Girl, who welcomed her eldest daughter at the tender age of 16, became a grandmother to baby Luna back in August

Young: Speaking about her experience as a young mum, she told the panel: 'I don't feel 48. With Anoushka I had her so young. I was 16 and 11 months'

Tamara was known as a member of the 'IT girls' and for being best pals with the late Tara Palmer-Tomkinson.

The socialites famed for their partying ways, drinking fizz, travelling on private jets and their disastrous love-lives.

She said: 'We were quite naive in a way we thought it was all just great fun, if you don't have a real job you don't have to be checking in at 8am.

Close-knit family: Tamara now enjoys a quieter life with her son Vero and granddaughter Luna

'It wasn't like I was stuck in a horrible environment and struggling for myself. For my mum it was a fantastic time, because she had this little baby, even though she was a grandma, she had this new lease of life.

She continued: 'Tara and I, we did so many jobs together, we were just booked together like lots of other girls, the problem with Tara is that we've always had a baby.

'I've always had a strong family behind me, whether they've been able to control me all the time is a bit trickier. We always had Sunday lunch.

'We just had to be functioning'.

Way back when: Tamara was known as a member of the 'IT girls' and for being best pals Tara Palmer-Tomkinson, with the socialites famed for their partying ways

The socialite, who is also mum to four-year-old Vero and daughter Violet, nine, said Anoushka has a very different approach to her when it comes to parenting.

'She's a different mummy though she's very spiritual and much more down to earth,' she said.

'She had a very complicated labour, but since she's had the baby she's just blossomed.

'Obviously I'm trying to not tell them how it's going to be them, they're doing it in a different way, she's doesn't have anybody helping her, but she does come to visit us and we have sleepovers.

'I'm married to an Italian, I think I should be Nona Titi, and lets see she'll probably call us something dreadful.'

Different: The socialite, who is also mum to four-year-old Vero and daughter Violet, nine, said Anoushka has a very different approach to her when it comes to parenting

And while Tamara and Anoushka now have a strong relationship, it hasn't always been the case.

Back in 2011, photographer Anoushka previously said she has little childhood recollection of her mother, recalling that her strongest memories are of her grandparents, property magnate Peter Beckwith and his wife Paula.

Even when she did briefly live with her mother at the age of six, she was subjected to 'huge house parties which went on for days'.

She told MailOnline: 'Her friends would wake me and want to dress me up. It wasn't the best environment.'

'The first thing you need to know about my mum is that she sees life through rose-tinted glasses. She thinks she was around a lot more than she was.

'I remember seeing her picture in the paper when I was little and I guess she was having a lot of fun, but my strongest memories are of my grandparents putting me to bed and getting me up in the morning.

'My mother's high-maintenance. She likes private planes and fast cars and I think it makes her happy.

'Money has never interested me; all it does is cause pain and conflict and complications.'

====== 1946 ========

FERNE MCCANN AND MUM GILLY FILM NEW SERIES OF FIRST TIME MUM

She offered fans a sneak peek into her life as a single mother in her fly-on-the-wall reality show First Time Mum.

And Ferne McCann was spotted filming scenes for the upcoming series of the programme alongside her supportive mother Gilly in an Essex park on Thursday.

The former TOWIE star, who has daughter Sunday, one, with jailed acid attacker Arthur Collins, was bundled up against the cold as she headed out for a brisk walk.

It's back! Ferne McCann was spotted filming scenes for the upcoming series of First Time Mum alongside her supportive mother Gilly in an Essex park on Thursday

Ferne, 28, embraced a practical look in a pair of workout leggings, a fleece and a bright pink gilet.

She opted for comfort in a pair of trainers and set off her look with a bobble hat.

The star was chatting to her mum as they enjoyed a low-key workout, catching up on recent events.

Wrapping up warm: The former TOWIE star, who has daughter Sunday, one, with jailed acid attacker Arthur Collins, was bundled up against the cold as she headed out for a brisk walk

Cosy and comfy: Ferne, 28, embraced a practical look in a pair of workout leggings, a fleece and a bright pink gilet

Ferne confirmed First Time Mum would be returning to ITVBe in an interview with OK! magazine last month.

'It will be back in the new year, which I’m so excited about. It’s still going to be the three part mini series', she said.

As well as her various reality show projects, Ferne also has a cosmetics range with Poundland, which has been a huge success since its release earlier this year.

Back for another series: Ferne confirmed First Time Mum would be returning to ITVBe in an interview last month

Busy bee: As well as her various reality show projects, Ferne also has a cosmetics range with Poundland

Having a gossip: The star was chatting to her mum as they enjoyed a low-key workout, catching up on recent events

Ferne recently sparked romance rumours with Love Island millionaire Charlie Brake, but insisted nothing has happened between them yet.

She told the magazine: ''There was definitely some flirting going on but I don’t know what’s going to happen in the future, or if we’ll go on a date.'

'He’s very handsome and a nice guy', she added of the posh star, who recently split from his fellow Islander Ellie Brown.

Just friends... for now: Ferne recently sparked romance rumours with Love Island millionaire Charlie Brake, but insisted nothing has happened between them yet

Flirty: 'He’s very handsome and a nice guy', she said of the posh star, who recently split from his fellow Islander Ellie Brown

====== 1947 ========

DR ALEX LOOKS ECSTATIC AS HE COSIES UP TO BEVVY OF SCANTILY-CLAD CHEERLEADERS

He revealed it was 'good to be home' when he returned to his hospital job on Monday.

But Dr Alex George took some time out of his gruelling A&E schedule on Thursday, as he cosied up to a bevvy of scantily-clad cheerleaders.

The 27-year-old Love Island star looked utterly thrilled as he posed with the stunning line-up of women at the RedZone.Bet Thanksgiving party at London's Millbank Tower.

Having fun? Dr Alex George took some time out of his gruelling A&E schedule on Thursday, as he cosied up to a bevvy of scantily-clad cheerleaders

Alex got into the sporty theme of the night, donning a blue American football jersey over his sweater, which he teamed with black skinny jeans.

He may have failed to find love in the Love Island villa with the likes of Alexandra Crane and Megan Barton-Hanson but he seemed to be getting on famously with the cheerleaders.

The beauties donned ultra-skimpy red crop tops and hotpants teamed with knee-high socks and trainers.

Admirable profession: He revealed it was 'good to be home' when he returned to his hospital job on Monday

Pretty pleased: The 27-year-old Love Island star looked utterly thrilled as he posed with the stunning line-up of women at the RedZone.Bet Thanksgiving party at London's Millbank Tower

Taking centre-stage: Alex got into the sporty theme of the night, donning a blue American football jersey over his sweater, which he teamed with black skinny jeans

Alex's night on the tiles comes after he returned to his A&E job on Monday.

He said it was 'good to be home' as he posted a sweet selfie with his NHS co-workers on his first day back in hospital on Monday morning.

The TV personality briefly stepped away from the profession to appear on the ITV2 reality show this summer, and his now heading back to life on the ward five months later.

Posing in his scrubs as he grinned alongside a group of doctors and nurses, Alex wrote on his Instagram page: 'Good to be home'.

Getting along famously! He may have failed to find love in the Love Island villa with the likes of Alexandra Crane and Megan Barton-Hanson but he seemed to be getting on famously with the cheerleaders

Dare to bare: The beauties donned ultra-skimpy red crop tops and hotpants teamed with knee-high socks and trainers

Alex announced his return to medicine via his social media channels last week, writing: 'Love Island was the experience of a lifetime, but ever since I left the villa I've genuinely missed working for the NHS.

'That's why this week, I'm going back to A&E. I trained for years for the opportunity to help people, and I can't wait to get back to doing what I love.'

On Instagram, he informed his 1.3million followers: 'I'll be using my platform to raise awareness around health issues among young people.

'Hopefully I'll be able to give you a bit of insight into what it's like on the front lines of the NHS. I hope you all continue this incredible journey with me. Here we go!'

'Good to be home': It comes four days after he returned to his job in A&E, posting a sweet selfie with his NHS co-workers on his first day back in hospital on Monday morning

Back to reality: Alex announced his return to medicine via his social media channels last week

Announcement: He took to Twitter and Instagram to share the news

During an appearance on This Morning back in August, Dr. Alex said: 'I absolutely love my job and whilst I was away I started missing it in a lot of ways, and every now and again we’d talk about medicine in the villa and I’d love all that.

'I definitely want to go back to A&E once the time is right.'

Upon hearing that each contestant could earn in the region of £5,000 per Instagram post which could equate to £750,000 a year, the Welsh medic admitted he would be passionate about bringing his expertise to the small screen and isn't interested in the reality star life.

During his stint on Love Island, Dr. Alex failed to make a spark with Samira Mighty, Megan Hanson Barton, Ellie Brown, Charlie Williams, Grace Wardle, Laura Crane and Alexandra Cane, subsequently leaving the show single.

====== 1948 ========

QUENTIN LETTS REVIEWS SWITZERLAND AT AMBASSADORS THEATRE

Switzerland

(Ambassadors Theatre)

Verdict: brutally good

Rating:

Phyllis Logan is an admirably flexible actress. Although known to millions as Downton Abbey’s solidly correct housekeeper Mrs Hughes, she is currently playing a sclerotic, terminally-ill crime novelist in the West End transfer of Joanna Murray-Smith’s Switzerland.

Its 90 minutes are well-acted and there is a good twist near the end, but this two-hander is possibly a little too cryptic.

The novelist in question is Patricia Highsmith (1921-1995). Her books included The Talented Mr Ripley and Strangers On A Train, which was turned into a Hitchcock chiller in 1951. Highsmith’s plots went big on evil, amorality, selfishness and murder. She herself ended up a pretty nasty piece of work. By the end of her life she did not seem to have time for love (except for her pet snails) or even vanity. To look at, she could have been W. H. Auden’s sister. Drink and cigarettes had taken their toll on her body, while loneliness soured her soul.

Phyllis Logan (pictured) is an admirably flexible actress. Although known to millions as Downton Abbey’s solidly correct housekeeper Mrs Hughes

As such, Highsmith is promising material for a dramatist, even if her more obnoxious remarks about Jews, blacks, Latinos and Roman Catholics may startle modern theatregoers. The show’s programme admits that she was an ‘equal-opportunity offender’ who was foul to everyone.

The play opens with Highsmith working one morning alone in her Swiss-Alpine home. Gleaming white mountains are visible through the windows; inside the room, as she taps on her typewriter, a smokier, more claustrophobic air prevails.

Highsmith is expecting a visitor: Edward, a publishing assistant from New York who is coming to try to get her to sign a contract for one last novel in her popular Ripley series. Suave killer Tom Ripley was Highsmith’s most saleable character.

She explains that she is drawn to him because killers are transgressors, and people who transgress make interesting subjects for writers.

Phyllis plays Patricia Highsmith and Calum Finlay plays Edward Ridgeway in Switzerland

Highsmith tells her young male visitor that she needs his help with plot ideas. If he can dream up a good murder plan, she will sign his book deal.

Miss Logan is convincingly horrible as Highsmith, though I might have liked her to be slower in her nastiness at the start. Really rude people use silence in a threatening way. The dyspeptic wisecracks become a little predictable.

Calum Finlay is excellent as the apparently naive New Yorker. Highsmith keeps telling the handsome boy how wet and useless and deluded he is. ‘I don’t think I’m deluded,’ he says. ‘That’s ’cos you’re deluded,’ she snaps. An implausible amount of whisky and cigarettes are consumed and there are some droll observations on late 20th-century Manhattan and on life in Switzerland.

Eventually, Highsmith learns to like, or at least tolerate, her young visitor. But is he everything he seems?

And does there come a point where a novelist is consumed by (killed by) the characters she has created? Fans of Highsmith’s books will be at a strong advantage in understanding this play. Newcomers to her work might appreciate greater explanation of her output, and even some reflections on the more generous person that she was as a younger woman.

In the end, the sheer negativity of her personality may leave us too cold to worry much about her fate. But bravo to Miss Logan and Mr Finlay.

Fairy Tales with a heart of Darkness

Grim Tales (unicorn)

Rating:

Some years ago Philip Pullman wrote a version of the Grimm brothers’ 19th-century fairy tales. That adaptation, Grimm Tales, has now been adapted for the stage at the Unicorn children’s theatre near London Bridge.

I couldn’t bear the childishness of the first 20 minutes, but by the end I was gripped. The Grimmer it became, the less patronising it became, the better it worked.

Seven energetic actors play a variety of roles and make extensive and inventive use of a dressing-up box.

A scene from Philip Pullman's Grimm Tales. Adapted for the stage by Philip Wilson @ Unicorn Theatre.

Some of the gothic tales will be familiar, such as Little Red Riding Hood and Hansel and Gretel. Abandonment, witches, forests, impetuous adults — these are the Grimms’ repeated themes. One story, told here, acquires a same-sex love angle, sweetly done.

Less familiar may be stories such as The Juniper Tree, in which a boy is decapitated by his stepmother and returns to haunt her as a songbird. And I did not know the Grimms had done a version of the King Lear story.

On Tuesday night the children in the audience ranged from about six to 16. Some of the little ones seemed to think it was a panto and shouted out, ‘She’s over there!’ when a queen was earnestly seeking her lover.

And hearing at one point of a king who fell in love with his daughter, the young audience united with loud ‘Eurrghs!’ Great moment.

Q.L.

====== 1949 ========

SINGER MARIAH CAREY DROPS NEW ALBUM DISSING UNNAMED LOVER...BUT ARE THE SONGS ABOUT JAMES PACKER?

Mariah Carey has dropped a brand new album containing a number of diss tracks, with speculation they could be about her billionaire ex, James Packer.

The American singer, 48, and the Australian casino mogul, 51, were engaged in early 2016, before the couple split after 18 months together.

According to The Daily Telegraph, the tracks on 'Caution' feature a number of bitter lyrics about an unnamed ex.

Scroll down for video

'You took my love for granted': Mariah Carey appears to slam her billionaire ex James Packer in her new album Caution following couple's bitter split

The powerhouse performer has called the songs on 'Caution' some of her 'most personal yet'.

On the track 'Get the F**k Out', Mariah slams a former partner, with biting lyrics about how he didn't appreciate her worth.

Bitter split: The American singer, 48, and the Australian casino mogul, 51, were engaged in early 2016, before the couple's ugly split after 18 months together Pictured in LA in 2016

Mariah sings 'you took my love for granted, you left me lost and enchanted,' followed by, 'bulldozed my heart as if you planned it.'

She then talks about her friends knowing the unnamed couple aren't right for each other.

'My friends saw it all in your eyes...They told me once they told me twice,' she sings.

Art imitates life: The powerhouse performer has called the songs on her album some of her 'most personal yet'

Mariah's second track 'With You' is about wedding vows and feeling a certain amount of apprehension and uneasiness.

The powerhouse performer uses the word 'trepidation' in the lyrics.

James and Mariah were engaged to be married in 2016, before their acrimonious split saw the singer get a USD $50 million 'inconvenience fee.'

In track four, titled 'A No No', Mariah appears to strike an angry tone.

In the lyrics she sings, 'off with you head, now slither out the door,' along with 'regardless of what transpired, it ain't even worth a slick reply.'

As the album continues, Mariah has a more hopeful tone and hints at finding love again.

The songstress is now seeing hunky back-up dancer Bryan Tanaka, while James is in a relationship with New York socialite Kylie Lim.

'My friends saw it all in your eyes...They told me once they told me twice,': Mariah (above) sings cutting lyrics about an unnamed ex on the albu

Last month, James spoke candidly about his time with the American singer in his new biography The Price Of Fortune: The Untold Story Of Being James Packer.

He explained that his relationship with Mariah was 'fun to begin with', describing his former fiancée as 'insanely bright'.

He added: 'Wherever we went, we were on the top table and that was because of her, not me. She was kind and she took an interest in my life.'

Bitter split: James and Mariah were engaged to be married in 2016, before their acrimonious split saw the singer get a USD $50 million 'inconvenience fee'

However, the casino mogul - who was later admitted to a rehabilitation centre in March 2018 - confessed he was struggling with his mental health in the midst of their relationship.

In February 2016, just a month after he proposed to Mariah with a $12.7 million (USD$10 million) 35-carat diamond ring, he was apparently not coping well.

'I was in a bad, bad way,' James said, reflecting on that dark period of his life.

'I was in a bad, bad way': The Australian businessman admitted that he was secretly struggling with his mental health shortly after proposing to Mariah in early 2016. Pictured on March 21

As well as struggling with depression and anxiety, James was facing financial strain.

'I don't know if I started crying, but I thought to myself, 'I don't want to have $1.4 billion of debt any more. Why am I doing this?'' he revealed.

Adding to the pressure was Mariah's entourage, who reportedly demanded that James buy her a $250,000 wedding dress.

Eventually, the toll became too much and the relationship collapsed, with James and Mariah abruptly calling it quits in October 2016.

Mariah reportedly received a USD$50 million 'inconvenience fee' after the break-up.

'I was at a low point in my personal life,' James later told The Australian. 'She was kind, exciting and fun. Mariah is a woman of substance. But it was a mistake for her and a mistake for me.'

Meanwhile, for Mariah, there doesn't seem to be any love lost between them.

When asked about her ex-fiancé in June this year, she said dismissively: 'I don't know where the motherf**ker is, I don't know! He's somewhere doing something.'

James first met Mariah in Aspen, Colorado in late 2013 and their relationship made headlines around the world.

====== 1950 ========

LOVE ISLAND'S GEORGIA STEEL AND ADAM COLLARD HAVE ANIMATED CONVERSATION AFTER CLOTHING LAUNCH

She managed to avoid an awkward run-in with her ex-boyfriend Sam Bird at the reality star-studded event.

Yet Georgia Steel appeared to have an animated conversation with her former co-star Adam Collard after his girlfriend Zara McDermott's Lasula clothing launch on Wednesday night.

The Love Island stars, aged 20 and 23, seemed to be having an intense chat as the brunette beauty had her arms folded and stared down to the floor as they waited outside with friends.

Busy bee: Georgia Steel appeared to have an animated conversation with her former co-star Adam Collard after his girlfriend Zara McDermott's Lasula clothing launch on Wednesday night

Yet there's nothing to suggest that things were heated between the pair as Georgia appeared to say goodbye to Adam and hugged one of her friends goodbye later in the evening.

MailOnline has contacted both Georgia and Adam's representatives for comment.

The brunette beauty looked effortlessly chic for the event, as well as the Winter Wonderland launch which she also attended on the same night.

Georgia wore a black and white polka dot dress with a pair of leather looking thigh-high heel boots, a tailored camel coat and Burberry scarf.

Intense catch up: The Love Island stars, aged 20 and 23, seemed to be having an intense chat as the brunette beauty had her arms folded and stared down to the floor

Awkward: Earlier in the evening, she managed to avoid an awkward run-in with her ex-boyfriend Sam Bird at the reality star-studded event

Pals: Yet there's nothing to suggest that things were heated between the pair as Georgia appeared to say goodbye to Adam and hugged one of her friends goodbye later in the evening

The former barmaid styled her glossy brunette locks into her signature half back hairdo, she added a slick of glamorous make-up.

Just last month, Georgia split from her boyfriend Sam Bird after meeting in the 2018 Love Island villa over the summer.

However, the pair confirmed their split in October, with Georgia insisting she is a 'happy single pringle' in the weeks that followed.

The 'loyal' reality star confessed she's enjoying living alone and working on her career in the weeks after her relationship with Sam came to an end.

Chic: The brunette beauty looked effortlessly chic for the event, as well as the Winter Wonderland launch which she also attended on the same night

Stylish: Georgia wore a black and white polka dot dress with a pair of leather looking thigh-high heel boots, a tailored camel coat and Burberry scarf

Signature hairdo: The former barmaid styled her glossy brunette locks into her signature half back hairdo, she added a slick of glamorous make-up

Georgia hit headlines when Sam claimed he broke off his relationship with her after finding a secret selfie of her in bed with her ex-boyfriend - although she staunchly denied the shock claims.

Sam claimed his suspicions were aroused after Georgia didn't return home from a PA, and went onto find secret messages to her ex on her phone.

It comes after Georgia exclusively told MailOnline she did spend the night at her ex's but in the spare room, confessing she felt 'trapped' in their relationship and only stayed with Sam to prove a point to the public.

Georgia said she fell out of love with Sam and that led to the split, admitting that she stayed in the 'loveless' relationship just to prove a point to the public.

Heartbreak: Just last month, Georgia split from her boyfriend Sam Bird after meeting in the 2018 Love Island villa over the summer

Not meant to be: However, the pair confirmed their split in October, with Georgia insisting she is a 'happy single pringle' in the weeks that followed

She said: 'There was NO third party involved in the break up between him and I. Sam thinks I cheated because he went through my phone and threatened to sell the screenshots to the press.

'He read and took screen shots of banter I had between me and my best mate. The banter was about my ex boyfriend from which he's then put two and two together and come up with an imaginary scenario.'



Meanwhile, Adam and Zara's romance has gone from strength-to-strength since leaving the villa over the summer, with the two recently enjoying a romantic holiday in the Bahamas.

Care-free: The 'loyal' reality star confessed she's enjoying living alone and working on her career in the weeks after her relationship with Sam came to an end

Reports: Georgia hit headlines when Sam claimed he broke off his relationship with her after finding a secret selfie of her in bed with her ex-boyfriend - something she denies

High profile split: Sam claimed his suspicions were aroused after Georgia didn't return home from a PA, and went onto find secret messages to her ex on her phone

The duo are just one of four couples that have remained together since leaving Love Island, with a collection of their co-stars splitting.

Samira Mighty and Frankie Foster finished after a video of the hunk smooching a mystery brunette in a Kent club emerged.

Ellie Brown was said to have found out Charlie Brake was putting an end to their romance when he made a public statement on social media.

It's over: It comes after Georgia exclusively told MailOnline she did spend the night at her ex's but in the spare room, confessing she felt 'trapped' in their relationship (Georgia and Sam pictured together in September)

Paul Knops claimed Laura Anderson wasn't wife material and he stressed the pair were never exclusive when he decided to break things off with her.

Laura Crane and Jack Fowler had a low-key break up following their departure from the Love Island villa just days before the final.

While Sam claimed to have discovered a picture of Georgia in bed with her ex-boyfriend and the 'heartbroken' star terminated their love affair.

Smitten: Meanwhile, Adam and Zara's romance has gone from strength-to-strength since leaving the villa over the summer

====== 1951 ========

MEGAN MCKENNA TOUCHES BACK DOWN IN LONDON AFTER BRIEF I'M A CELEBRITY TRIP IN AUSTRALIA

She was given a taste of jungle life after joining the I'm A Celebrity: Extra Camp team over in Australia.

But her time Down Under has officially come to an end, as Megan McKenna was pictured touching back down in London on Thursday.

The former TOWIE star, 26, was seen arriving at Heathrow Airport and headed straight for the newspaper stand, undoubtedly to catch up on the gossip she had missed while she was away.

Home sweet home: Megan McKenna was seen touching back down in London following her brief stint in Australia where she appeared on I'm A Celebrity's Extra Camp

Megan cut a chic figure as she made her way through the terminal, sporting a ribbed black jumpsuit that made for a loose fit over her slender frame.

Opting for comfort, the beauty wore black trainers on her feet and jazzed up her ensemble with Burberry accessories. Her designer touches saw her layer a scarf from the fashion house around her neck, while toting a Burberry belt bag around her waist.

The vocal talent wore her hair back from her face in a low ponytail and hid under a Yankees baseball cap - choosing to sport a minimal make-up look for her travels.

Perusing: The TOWIE star, 26, arrived at Heathrow Airport and headed straight for the newspaper stand, undoubtedly to catch up on the gossip she had missed while she was away

First things first: She made sure to check out the latest press on her return

Following her long-haul flight, Megan was seen perusing the news stand and was later seen clutching a newspaper in one hand while toting a large Louis Vuitton holdall over one arm.

The reality star turned country singer spent a brief period over in Australia to appear as a guest on the ITV2 spin-off Extra Camp. Her arrival in Oz came after swirling speculation claimed she was set to star on I'm A Celebrity this series.

While Megan never directly addressed the rumours, she soon put an end to speculation on revealing her involvement with Extra Camp.

She joined show hosts Scarlet Moffatt, Joe Swash and Joel Dommett on the show that treats fans to all the behind-the-scenes action and gossip following I'm A Celebrity's main show.

Back on home soil: Megan cut a chic figure as she made her way through the terminal, sporting a ribbed black jumpsuit that made for a loose fit over her slender frame

Designer touch: The beauty wore black trainers on her feet and jazzed up her ensemble with Burberry accessories

Megan had appeared as a guest, alongside Andi Peters, for the first few days of the new series and even got stuck into a Bushtucker trial before heading back to her native Essex.

She took on the same trial as John Barrowman, titled Scary Rose, which saw the stars collect stars from a shipwreck. Forced to find the stars underwater, Megan and John had to use air pockets to catch their breath and, of course, were joined by jungle critters throughout.

Megan faced an array of underwater monsters, including crocodiles, yabbies and eels and she successfully managed to retrieve six stars, before declaring: "I'm a celebrity get me out of here," as she decided she couldn't carry on any longer.

Low-key attire: The reality star wore her hair back from her face in a low ponytail and hid under a Yankees baseball cap

Au naturel: Megan opted for a minimal make-up look for her travels that favoured a dewy complexion and nude lip

Touch down: The starlet was seen wheeling her suitcase through the terminal while toting a large Louis Vuitton holdall over her arm

Chic: Nailing her airport look, Megan had all eyes on her as she made her way home

Dispelling the rumours: Megan had been tipped to enter the jungle but later revealed she had headed to Oz for a guest appearance on I'm A Celebrity Extra Camp

She was cheered on by host Joe Swash who watched on from the edge of the water, reassuring Megan that she was OK when she started to panic.

John, meanwhile, secured all 10 stars for his campmates - a welcome treat following Anne Hegerty only retrieving two stars the day before in her trial, meaning there was a substantial lack of food in camp.

Reflecting on the trial, Megan claims it was 'the scariest thing I’ve ever done in my life' on Twitter.

Prior to her efforts, she had told followers: 'So tonight, I’m doing a REAL BUSH TUCKER TRIAL!!!! FML!!!! IS THIS ACTUALLY HAPPENING!!!! SOMEONE SEND HELP... (I’m also going to apologise now, for all the awful screaming).'

Getting her jungle fix: Megan got to experience the jungle first hand without actually heading into camp

Having their say: She appeared alongside Andi Peters on Extra Camp, where they joined hosts Scarlett Moffatt, Joe Swash and Joel Dommett

====== 1952 ========

ESTHER RANTZEN, 78, HITS OUT AT BBC FOR STARTING A 'GENERATION WAR'

Dame Esther Rantzen, pictured, claims plans to axe free BBC TV licences for the over-75s will set the generations against each other

Dame Esther Rantzen has attacked the BBC for ‘setting generations against each other’ as it considers axing free TV licences for over-75 year olds.

The star, 78, hit out after BBC director general Tony Hall said that, while living circumstances for older people are ‘improving significantly’, young people ‘have been some of the hardest hit in the wake of the financial crisis’.

‘That raises important issues of fairness between the generations,’ he said. ‘There is also the question of fairness for everyone, regardless of age.’

But Dame Esther, pictured, said: ‘To imply that older people are snatching this benefit from the young is to set generations against each other in a way that is bad for all of us.’

The scheme is currently Government funded but in 2020 the BBC will take on the full £745million cost.

====== 1953 ========

ALEXA CHUNG CUTS A SOPHISTICATED FIGURE IN PINSTRIPE DRESS AT OXFORD UNION

She was one of Britain's leading models in the noughties, known for her flair for fashion and signature winged liner.

And Alexa Chung looked effortlessly stylish as she took to the stage to talk about her illustrious career in the industry at the Oxford Union on Thursday.

The model, 35, cut a sophisticated figure as she slipped her statuesque frame into a pinstripe dress.

Chic: Alexa Chung looked effortlessly stylish as she took to the stage to talk about her illustrious career in the industry at the Oxford Union on Thursday

The A-line dress sheathed over Alexa's trim frame and highlighted her tremendous pins due to its knee-high hemline.

The former Popworld presenter accessorised the look with gold spiral earrings and patent black heels.

She wore her brunette locks in an elegant half-up half-down do and accentuated her fair complexion with blush-swept cheeks, eyeliner and a soft pink lip.

Fashion maven: The model, 35, cut a sophisticated figure as she slipped her statuesque frame into a pinstripe dress

Stylish: The former Popworld presenter accessorised the look with gold spiral earrings and patent black heels

During the talk, Alexa covered all topics including her career, fashion and her thoughts on the #MeToo movement.

She told the students: 'I know now that I’m driven by a desire to communicate and to have an emotional connection with other people.

'Now more than ever there’s a growing space for people to tell their own stories and a need for them to do so.

'I have always dressed to express myself or to alter how other people may have chosen to perceive me.'

Despite being a model, a designer and a style icon, Alexa confessed she has felt like an 'imposter' in the fashion spheres.

She told BBC News: 'It's not exclusive to fashion, I've felt it with everything I've done.

'Writing for Vogue, that's a huge imposter syndrome. Television, every day before we went live, I'd be like, "am I equipped to do this? I don't know".'

Gorgeous: She wore her brunette locks in an elegant half-up half-down do and accentuated her fair complexion with blush-swept cheeks, eyeliner and a soft pink lip

Although her career as a designer is blossoming, Alexa freely expressed her doubts when she discussed the intimate details candidly with Stella magazine.

She said: 'I have absolute prang-outs where I'm worried about the future.'

As for romance, Alexa previously fell madly in love with the Arctic Monkeys rocker Alex Turner from 2007 until 2011.

The designer was believed to have rekindled her relationship with actor Alexander Skarsgård in March, however she was seen with ex Matthew Hitt two months later.

====== 1954 ========

TOWIE'S JAMES 'ARG' ARGENT TALKS GETTING 'SERIOUS' WITH GEMMA COLLINS

He's been taking some time out of the limelight in a bid to focus on his post-rehab recovery.

And James 'Arg' Argent was chatting about how far he'd come during an interview on Loose Women on Thursday, confessing that he's very happy things are now 'serious' with his girlfriend Gemma Collins, 37, following a rocky start to their on/off romance.

The TOWIE star, 30, also discussed his plans to return to the show that made him famous next year and his quest to lose weight.

Happier than ever: James 'Arg' Argent was interviewed on Loose Women on Thursday, confessing he's very happy things are now 'serious' with his girlfriend Gemma Collins

Confirming he was living with Gemma, he joked: 'The locks haven't been changed for ages!

'It's been a year since we got quite serious and we're very happy and I love her and I can't wait for her to do DOI in January.'

Admitting their romantic journey had been far from easy, Arg said their close friendship blossomed into something more.

'Me and Gemma we've been friends for about eight years, but I always get confused because there were so many times we'd hook up and she'd say don't tell anyone...

Getting serious: Confirming he was living with Gemma, he joked, 'The locks haven't been changed for ages!'

Smitten: 'It's been a year since we got quite serious and we're very happy and I love her and I can't wait for her to do DOI in January', Arg said

'We were sat in bed one day and were always like we're always in bed together why not?', he said.

Arg also opened up about Gemma's larger-than-life personality, revealing that he loves her sense of humour.

He joked: 'She's a really hard worker, I find her hilarious but she's definitely a special woman to say the least!'

Arg discussed Gemma's intense training for Dancing On Ice, which kicks off in early 2019.

Making a comeback: The TOWIE star, 30, also discussed his plans to return to the show that made him famous in 2019 and his quest to lose weight

He joked of Gemma: 'She's a really hard worker, I find her hilarious but she's definitely a special woman to say the least!'

He explained: 'I know when she's worked really hard if she comes in and she's all lairy and giving it to me a little bit, then I know she hasn't worked that hard.

'But the last few weeks, she comes home and she's really chilled and quiet - and that's when I know.'

Although wedding bells aren't on the horizon for the couple just yet, Arg revealed he could return to TOWIE in 2019 after taking some time off to deal with personal issues.

Arg declared: 'I'm the only OG TOWIE cast member and obviously I've been there since day one, the doors from what I've been told is always open for me, next year there's a possibility I'll go back.

New pal: Arg got better acquainted with Mr Blobby during his Loose Women interview

Terrifying: The pair appeared to be getting along famously on set

'If not I might be doing my own show or a show with Gemma, it's looking good for 2019 as long as I keep myself occupied.'

He also opened up about his recent injury which saw him fracture his shoulder in a moped accident, and stalled his weight loss efforts.

The lovable star said: 'I'd been at Boot Camp, I'd got a nice bit of weight off and I thought I'm going really continue it.

'It's knocked me back for six, so all that weight I lost I've put back on. That's my excuse, anyway.'

Ouch: He also opened up about his recent injury which saw him fracture his shoulder in a moped accident, and stalled his weight loss efforts

====== 1955 ========

LILLY BECKER NAILS WINTER CHIC IN STYLISH WOOL COAT WITH SEXY LEATHER BOOTS DURING LONDON OUTING

She is in the midst of divorce proceedings from husband Boris.

Yet Lilly Becker put her woes aside on Thursday as she emerged from an east London office block while putting on a low-key yet chic display.

The 42-year-old model, who announced her split from the tennis legend in May after nine years of marriage, opted for stylish knee-high leather boots with a chic winter coat as she kept out the chill in the flawless winter look.

Stylish: Lilly Becker put her woes aside on Thursday as she emerged from an east London office block while putting on a low-key yet chic display

Lilly was displaying her flawless good looks as she sashayed on to the streets in her ensemble which was the perfect look for the chilly weather.

The brunette beauty showed off her lithe legs in tight trousers while sexing up the look slightly with the addition of the chic leather boots.

Displaying her ageless good looks, she opted for minimal make-up which highlighted her unusually piercing blue eyes and perfect complexion.

She scraped her hair into a low-key ponytail with the bouncy locks flowing down her back from the neatly scraped back up-do.

Strutting her stuff: The 42-year-old model, who announced her split from the tennis legend in May after nine years of marriage, opted for stylish knee-high leather boots with a chic winter coat as she kept out the chill in the flawless winter look

Strutting her stuff: Lilly was displaying her flawless good looks as she sashayed on to the streets in her ensemble which was the perfect look for the chilly weather

The end: Lily and Boris announced their split with the couple's lawyer Christian-Oliver Moser announcing the news in a statement. It read: 'The decision after a 13-year-long relationship and nine years of marriage wasn't an easy one'

Lily and Boris announced their split with the couple's lawyer Christian-Oliver Moser announcing the news in a statement. It read: 'The decision after a 13-year-long relationship and nine years of marriage wasn't an easy one.'

Moser said the couple's main concern now was the well-being of Amadeus and insisted that the separation was 'amicable.'

Friends reportedly said the marriage was 'in trouble' in 2017 before Boris was made bankrupt and that she had been spending more time in The Netherlands.

Moving on: Moser said the couple's main concern now was the well-being of Amadeus and insisted that the separation was 'amicable'

Reflections: Reflecting on their woes, Lilly told The Daily Mail's Richard Eden in March that they had gone for relationship therapy to save their nine-year union and were now 'doing good' with hopes for more children

Reflecting on their woes, Lilly told The Daily Mail's Richard Eden in March that they had gone for relationship therapy to save their nine-year union and were now 'doing good' with hopes for more children.

'I've had a rough year,' she explained. 'At first, I let go completely — in every way. Too much drinking, too much smoking, too much going out and not caring.

She went on to say: 'I turned to vodka. I was smoking a pack a day. Boris was going through a bad time in his way, so he didn't notice. We disconnected and went our own ways.'

Tough times: 'I've had a rough year,' she explained. 'At first, I let go completely — in every way. Too much drinking, too much smoking, too much going out and not caring

Shocker: She went on to say: 'I turned to vodka. I was smoking a pack a day. Boris was going through a bad time in his way, so he didn't notice. We disconnected and went our own ways'

Strutting her stuff: She looked chic as she went about her business in the elegant look

Lilly continued: 'We did couples' therapy. It was something we never thought we would have to do. It helped. We did an hour a day for five days a week. It was nice to have the input from someone on the outside who doesn't know you and isn't bias.

'If you go through a really s****y time, I'm convinced you have to go through it in your way and hit rock bottom before you can come back. That's what happened to me.'

Boris was declared bankrupt in June last year over a debt of £3.34million owed to a private bank. He is the fifth highest on-court earner in tennis history, having built up a massive fortune since first winning Wimbledon aged 17.

====== 1956 ========

VICKY PATTISON EXCLUSIVE: TV STAR AND FIANCÉ JOHN NOBLE WERE FILMING A REALITY WEDDING SPECIAL

Vicky Pattison was left heartbroken earlier this month when her fiancé John Noble was caught partying with a bevy of beauties during a lads' trip to Dubai.

And in the midst of the former Geordie Shore star's personal pain, it has now been exclusively revealed to MailOnline that the couple had kicked off filming a special bridal programme ahead of their nuptials and before John's betrayal.

After scooping the show to follow their journey to the big day, the couple had began filming just two days before John embarked of his fateful holiday - however insiders have now revealed brave Vicky will continue filming to show 'her next chapter'.

Heartache: Vicky Pattison was left heartbroken earlier this month when her fiancé John Noble was caught partying with a bevy of beauties during a lads' trip to Dubai

Vicky and John were first pictured together in the X Factor audience in October 2016, having already dated 10 years previously, when she was just 20.

After confirming their romance in November 2016, they went on to announce their engagement in July last year, when Vicky proudly flaunted her 3.6-carat marquise-cut diamond engagement ring before easing herself into wedding planning.

Despite the fairy-tale aspects of their romance, sadly things came crashing down earlier this month when John was exposed for his love rat ways when a number of images and videos came to light showing her beau mingling with other revellers.

To add to her heartache, the betrayal will see the end of the wedding lead-up show however it has been revealed she will tackle the programme solo.

Moving on: She pulled a sultry pose on Instagram as she moved on from her drama

Lights, camera, action: It has now been exclusively revealed to MailOnline that the couple had kicked off filming a special bridal programme ahead of their nuptials and before John's betrayal (pictured on Wednesday with camera crews in tow)

Shock: John was pictiured with host of images following a trip to Dubai - which left Vicky heartbroken

Insiders told MailOnline: 'Vicky and John had a wedding special confirmed and started filming just a few days before John went on the boys' trip to Dubai.

'Obviously it was devastating for Vicky to have all this come out just after they started shooting. Vicky has decided to carry on filming with the crew. She's a professional and didn't want to let anyone down.

'It goes without saying it won't be a wedding show, but will follow Vicky on the next chapter as she bounces back from John's betrayal. She was excited to be starting wedding planning and looking at venues, but life has changed now.'

Loved-up: After confirming their romance in November 2016, they went on to announce their engagement in July last year, when Vicky proudly flaunted her 3.6-carat marquise-cut diamond engagement ring before easing herself into wedding planning

Shocking: Vicky and John frequently enjoyed public displays of affection, meaning their woes will be further shocking to fans (picture at Wimbledon in July last year)

Vicky and John's ill-fated romance Around 2008: Vicky and John first enjoyed a brief romance October 2016: The couple were spotted together at The X Factor sparking romance rumours November 2016: After joining Vicky in Australia during her I'm A Celeb commitments, the couple confirmed their romance July 2017: The couple confirmed their romance with a dramatic magazine spread where Vicky flashed her 3.6-carat marquise-cut engagement ring January 2018: Vicky revealed she had postponed their wedding 'by a year or two' as she 'wasn't ready to be a wife' despite having planned a lavish £175,000 ceremony this summer November 2018: Images surfaced of John getting close to a bevy of women during a trip to Dubai, throwing the furture of their romance into question

Vicky also scooped a number of other wedding-themed projects.

Prior to John's Dubai trip, Vicky had launched her inaugural bridal column with The Sun, while she also launched an Instagram page to follow her body transformation ahead of the big day.

The page, Vicky's Bridal Bod has not been used since November 8, just two days before the imagery of John partying with other women was unearthed.

Additionally, Vicky appeared on TLC's Say Yes To The Dress last year in a bid to find her perfect gown for the big day that never was.

John's betrayal was not the first time the couple's romance was dragged to a halt as in January Vicky confessed she has postponed her wedding by up to two years because she doesn't feel 'ready to be a wife'.

She revealed her plans to tie the knot in a lavish £175,000 ceremony this summer, yet told OK! magazine she and John did not leave enough time to plan their perfect nuptials, and so have decided to delay the proceedings by 'a year or two'.

Pain: After scooping the show to follow their journey to the big day, the couple had began filming just two days before John embarked of his fateful holiday - however insiders have now revealed brave Vicky will continue filming to show 'her next chapter'

Shocking: Following this, Vicky's best friend Paul Burns passed away aged 37 in June, leading to the star confessing her grief was preventing her desire to walk down the aisle

Following this, Vicky's best friend Paul Burns passed away aged 37 in June, leading to the star confessing her grief was preventing her desire to walk down the aisle.

She revealed she had to push back her wedding by a year after Paul's shock death and her fiancé John's grandparents suddenly passed away.

Prior to the Dubai incident, Vicky told MailOnline: 'John has been an amazing support for me, after our summer, it's been very difficult to enjoy planning a wedding, as you know, it ground to a halt throughout the summer because he lost both his grandparents, I lost a best friend.'

====== 1957 ========

GABBY ALLEN GOES BRALESS IN SKINTIGHT TOP AS SHE PUFFS ON A CIGARETTE

She recently spilled all about her marriage plans and buying a house with Rak-Su's Myles Stephensen.

And Gabby Allen left her singer boyfriend at home on Wednesday evening, as she enjoyed dinner with a male pal in London.

The 26-year-old Love Island 2017 star went braless in a skintight top as she puffed on a cigarette after chowing down a tasty meal with her hairdresser friend.

Dare to bare: Gabby Allen went braless in a skintight top as she puffed on a cigarette in London on Wednesday evening

Gabby showcased her trademark quirky style in a pair of cow-print ankle boots and a red snake-print skirt.

The Scouse beauty completed her look with a multi-coloured Western inspired leather jacket and carried her belongings in a chain-trim bag.

Styling her golden tresses in a slicked-back half-up 'do, she framed her features with lashings of mascara and plenty of berry lipstick.

It was a busy night for Gabby, who had earlier attended the premiere of Surviving Christmas With The Relatives, a British comedy drama in which the families of two sisters gather at their late parents' country house to celebrate the festive season.

Hearty meal: The 26-year-old Love Island 2017 was spotted chowing down a tasty meal with her hairdresser friend

Chic: The Scouse beauty rocked a multi-coloured Western inspired leather jacket and carried her belongings in a chain-trim bag

Looking good: Gabby showcased her trademark quirky style in a pair of cow-print ankle boots and a red snake-print skirt

Puffing away: The blonde beauty was seen pulling out a packet of cigarettes from her bag after their dinner

On the red carpet, the reality star spilled all about her engagement plans, diamond ring shapes and buying a house with boyfriend Myles.

Despite being content with her romance, the reality star couldn't resist digging the heels in at her ex Marcel Somerville as she claimed being with him was 'madness'.

Gabby reiterated Myles was the only person she had ever thought about having in her life long-term and insisted talking about their future wasn't 'weird'.

The mane attraction: Gabby styled her golden tresses in a slicked-back half-up 'do andframed her features with lashings of mascara and plenty of berry lipstick

Enjoying that meal, Gabby? The Liverpool born beauty seemed utterly engrossed in her meal

Busy gal: It was a busy night for Gabby, who had earlier attended the premiere of Surviving Christmas With The Relatives

She said: 'I mean he’s the first person that I’ve really thought about having a long term relationship with. We’re talking about future things too. It doesn’t feel weird talking about it, it’s not forced in any way. It’s not put on.

'I think there’s a lot of time, people used to say things about me and Marcel and I believe that was right at the time. But when you feel like this about someone, that’s when you know!'

Gabby, who attended the event with her hairdresser pal while Myles worked in Coventry, told all about their intimate engagement chats.

The blonde bombshell explained the next natural step for the couple will be buying a house together next year followed by engagement.

Going solo: She dazzled in her colourful outfit at the premiere of the film, which is a British comedy drama in which the families of two sisters gather at their late parents' country house

These boots were made for walking! Gabby ensured she worked her angles at the premiere

Cute: On the red carpet, the reality star spilled all about her engagement plans, diamond ring shapes and buying a house with her Rak-Su singer boyfriend Myles Stephenson

Cute: Gabby reiterated Myles was the only person she had ever thought about having in her life long-term and insisted talking about their future wasn't 'weird'

Sweet: She said: 'I mean he’s the first person that I’ve really thought about having a long term relationship with. We’re talking about future things too'

Asked about diamond ring shapes, she said: 'You know what we’re actually talking about this at the moment because... It’s a long story! We’ve talked about what shape I like, what I don’t like.

'But there’s no rush. Next year’s the first step, we’re going to move in. I mean, we’re moved in together now but we’ll buy a house.'

Gabby gushed over living with her beau as she hailed him an 'amazing cook' and incredibly tidy.

She said: 'He’s an amazing cook! I went away for the weekend come back and the house was spotless! Can’t believe how clean and tidy it is. He said that’s because you’re not here!'

Big plans: She said: 'Next year’s the first step, we’re going to move in. I mean, we’re moved in together now but we’ll buy a house'

Smitten: Gabby gushed over living with her beau as she hailed him an 'amazing cook' and incredibly tidy

====== 1958 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: DANI DYER AND GEMMA COLLINS RESPOND TO EMILY ATACK'S IMPRESSIONS

Emily Atack amused her fellow campmates and viewers alike with her celebrity impressions on Wednesday night's episode of I'm A Celebrity.

And Dani Dyer and Gemma Collins proved they were both good sports when they responded to The Inbetweeners actress' impressions of them both.

The Love Island winner certainly didn't take offence to Emily's impersonation, admitting she was 'p**sing' herself with laughter.

Taking it on the chine! Dani Dyer and Gemma Collins proved they were good sports when they responded to Emily Atack's impressions of them both on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!

Dani wrote on Twitter: 'I was p**sing myself Gemma one made me laugh the most though “I don’t need the money babe I don’t need it".'

Imitating Dani's strong Essex accent, Emily had joked about her on-screen relationship with Jack Fincham, saying: 'Oh my god, at the end of the day right?He thinks he's gonna make me a cheese and ham croissant every morning.

'Like, I do love the boy. But, like, things have got to change round here. D'ya know what I mean?'

Gemma also showed her appreciation for Emily's spot-on impressions, retweeting a post about the amusing scene.

Good sport: The Love Island winner certainly didn't take offence to Emily's impersonation, admitting she was 'p**sing' herself with laughter

Twitter reaction: Dani showed her appreciation for the impression on social media

Loving it: Gemma also showed her appreciation for Emily's spot-on impressions, retweeting a post about the amusing scene

Retweet: The GC has yet to officially comment on the joke, which saw Emily mocking her for leaving the jungle after just a few hours

Fans had thought the outspoken TOWIE personality wouldn't take well to the joke, but it seems she was equally amused.

Gemma, now 37, was hit with a wave of criticism after she left the show a mere 72 hours after entering the camp in 2014, after enduring an emotional rollercoaster during the first days.

Paying tribute to Gemma, Emily left her fellow campmates, and fans, in stitches as she treated them to the uncanny impression of the self-proclaimed diva.

Got ya: Emily paid homage to one of the jungle's most iconic exits as she impersonated former campmate Gemma

Rough ride: The GC, now 37, was hit with a wave of criticism after she left the show a mere 72 hours after entering the camp, after enduring an emotional rollercoaster during the first days

Channeling her inner GC, Emily had the girls in hysterics as she drawled in an Essex accent: 'At the end of the day I'm the GC, you're boring babe.

'You know what I don't need the money babe, I don't need it. I'm a celebrity get me out of here!'

Sair Khan did an impression of Love Island's Dani Dyer, with Emily doing her own version, saying: 'at the end of the day, he thinks hes gonna make me a cheese and ham croissant every morning, he's gotta think again'.

Lol: Paying tribute to Gemma, Emily left her fellow campmates, and fans, in stitches as she treated them to the uncanny impression of the self-proclaimed diva

Fun in the sun: Channeling her inner GC, Emily had the girls in hysterics as she drawled in an Essex accent: ' At the end of the day I'm the GC, you're boring babe

Laugh out loud: You know what I don't need the money babe, I don't need it. I'm a celebrity get me out of here!'

Talking in the Bush Telegraph, Rita Simons said 'Emily is a very talented young lady, I just love impressions and accents.'

Rita also treated the girls to her Denise Van Outen impression and told the girls about the time she did it to Denise in person.

Talking in the Bush Telegraph, Emily said 'Today was just glorious, this is what it's about.'

Emily's eerily similar impersonation of Gemma had fans rolling in the aisles as they praised her acting ability.

Funny: Emily's eerily similar impersonation of Gemma had fans rolling in the aisles as they praised her acting ability

The TOWIE star hoped to emulate the success of former cast-mates Mark Wright and Joey Essex, but her jungle experience got off to a bad start when she broke down ahead of a helicopter ride into camp.

Shortly after she found herself banished to the 'Celebrity Slammer' with Coronation Street star Craig Charles, 'Allo 'Allo actress Vicki Michele and Irish model Nadia Forde.

Surviving on a basic ration of rice and beans, an emotional Gemma complained of feeling unwell on Monday evening - hours before making the decision to leave.

Oh dear: Gemma sensationally quit the 2014 series of I’m A Celebrity… Get Me Out Of Here! – just three days after entering the Australian jungle

Speaking to Vicki, she admitted: 'I’m f**king p****d off. I want to go. I’m not going to be able to do it.'

The reality star previously vowed to stay until the end, telling the Mirror ahead of her jungle adventure: 'I think that I'm going to find it extremely tough; like every time I think about it, I feel sick, actually.

'It's going to be difficult for me, but, you know, no one takes the GC down. Yeah, every time I feel down, I'm just going to take a deep breath, and go, "You can do this. You can do it."'

She added: 'That's what I'm going in with, that mindset. Nothing can kill me.'

Gemma later donated her £4,800 jungle fee to Save The Children.

I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! continues on Thursday November 22, ITV1 at 9:00pm.

====== 1959 ========

JAN MOIR: WHY IT’S BETTER TO BE A SCROOGE THAN A FLASHY ROONEY THIS CHRISTMAS

Not even the end of November and, already, the Christmas pressure is on, on, on.

As usual, Coleen Rooney has made a strong opening move with her annual family Christmas card. This year, it features a photograph of her four apple-cheeked sons, cute as buttons in their reindeer pyjamas, posing amid a cosy festive scene. Beat that, mums and dads!

For Coleen, multi-millionaire footballer husband Wayne and their lucky, lucky children, Christmas is a time of excess; of giving but, most of all, receiving the best that their wealth can buy.

Whatever Kai, Klay, Kit and baby Cass want Santa to leave under the tree, you can bet it will be there. With bows on.

Yet it is not like that for everyone. This week, a father of five appealed for donations on online fundraising platform GoFundMe in order to give his family a good Christmas. Ben Buckley, from Hull, said he needed help after having to reduce his hours at work when his wife became ill during her latest pregnancy — their baby is now two weeks old.

Festive scene: The Rooney boys on the family Christmas card

The 32-year-old warehouse worker asked for £2,000 — which was quickly raised by 132 generous strangers. Bless them, every one.

He is grateful, but not everyone is happy about the situation.

Mr Buckley has been abused by the usual foam-flecked mob of online lunatics, while his stepfather called his actions ‘begging’ and was embarrassed. ‘I wish he had spoken to me first,’ he said, revealing that he had financially helped out the family a while ago.

As the season of goodwill approaches, one wants to be kind. Certainly, many of us would rather donate to someone like Ben and his kids than some faceless international charity whose executives pay themselves six-figure salaries.

Yet I can’t help but wonder if £2,000 is not a bit . . . high?

We can’t all be Rooneys, after all. And plenty of families who are in better financial positions than the Buckleys will not be spending anything like that amount of money on their family Christmas.

Meanwhile — call me ‘Mrs Scrooge’ — but why have another child if you cannot afford the ones you already have? Surely that is just sailing blindly into more financial trouble, when perhaps a bit of thought, planning and restraint might have averted further calamity. It seems wrong to just do what you want, while appealing to others for financial support.

However, Mr Buckley is reportedly a devoted dad and not a big-spender; his wish for his children to have a nice time after their difficult year is both understandable and commendable. And you can see the dilemma in which he and other scrimping parents find themselves. In years gone by, children were happy with whatever they got; an orange, a sixpence, Meccano, a skipping rope.

In contrast, children today are bombarded with adverts featuring the latest toys and computers — they know to the last gigabyte exactly what they are missing out on. And to compound their misery, they only have to look online to see the Have Toys boasting to the Have Not Toys about their latest haul of fun goodies.

However, is crowdfunding really the answer to the heart-breaking toy gap?

Many families struggle at this time of year and, while it might work this time for the Buckleys, what about next Christmas and the one after that? And what message does it send to their children, who might also be embarrassed when they find out what happened?

Surely, in the long run, it is better to live within your means, however difficult that might be.

To try not to be influenced by, or envious of, the gasping wealth or relative affluence of others.

It’s hard, I know, not to dwell on the unknown British ticket-holder who won £76.3 million in the EuroMillions draw earlier this month. Or Denise Coates, the Bet365 boss and her £265 million salary. Or, indeed, the lavish life of the freewheeling Rooneys and their little boys, a cosseted quartet who will never want for anything material in their lives.

Christmas puts struggling parents under intolerable pressure in a mercenary world that’s warped us all. Yet the truth is that, ultimately, both the Rooney kids and the Buckley brood will be happy just having their parents with them and being loved. Although they might not realise that for many years to come. Merry Christmas, everybody!

Cheryl's X-rated rumpus

Oh my god, did you see it? Grown men sobbed. Women were hysterical. Everyone was crying at the tragedy. Simon Cowell almost called an ambulance. No, not the baby penguins traumatised in Antarctica: I’m talking about Cheryl’s comeback on last Sunday’s X Factor.

Making her first live performance in four years, the Geordie pop star climbed aboard what looked like Ross Poldark’s disco boots to sing her new single, Love Made Me Do It.

In a bizarre performance, she crawled about like a cat, rubbed her bottom and licked her hand. Did she want a saucer of milk or to be wormed? No one was sure. ‘Is she all right?’ Cowell asked afterwards. Good question!

More than 45 people have complained to TV regulator Ofcom that the routine was too sexy — and perhaps not all of them were Cheryl herself, trying to whip up interest in her Desperation Made Me Do It comeback.

After everyone had had a good laugh, Cheryl complained on her Instagram account about the ‘sheer level of unbalanced negativity’ and ‘relentless abuse’ she had received in the Press. Oh dear. I don’t think this is going to end well.

A look this Klassy doesn’t come easily

I have always adored those glossy magazine articles — so prevalent at this time of year — that show hard-working hags such as me how to nail day-to-night dressing.

By adding heels and a dab of lipstick, we are supposed to transform ourselves from desk drudges to belles of the ball in the wink of a zirconium diamond.

Well, here is Myleene Klass, showing the way. At 3pm, our girl is struggling through the rain (left). A mere five hours later, with the aid of a 20-man glam squad, nuclear-powered hair tongs and a bronze tinfoil dress, Myleene has been transformed from day to night in style

Yeah, right. The only thing I find transforming about an after-work party is a quickly refilled beaker of adult beverage, followed by a swift dash home to my jim-jams. How do others do it? Well, here is Myleene Klass, showing the way. At 3pm, our girl is struggling through the rain (inset), wearing an anorak and an expression that either says: ‘I hate my life’ or ‘Where is my bl**dy limo?’

A mere five hours later, with the aid of a 20-man glam squad, nuclear-powered hair tongs and a bronze tinfoil dress, Myleene has been transformed from day to night in style.

Still, cheering to know that glamour is just a mirage — even for someone like her.

Penguins aren’t p-p-people

Penguins aren’t people, so why pretend that they are?

The latest episode of Dynasties on BBC1 featured the emperor penguins of the Antarctic — and was a triumph in many wonderful ways.

From the opening shots of the sea icing over, to the blue icebergs clinking in the bay, and the sole penguin making his way across the icy tundra, it was a thrill a minute.

The landscape, the plight of the birds, the horror of the wintry weather — marvellous stuff.

Yet there were uncomfortable moments when it became more of a soap-opera icecapade than a serious nature programme making intelligent points.

For a start, encouraging viewers to fantasise that mummy and daddy penguin are sad because baby egg penguin has died is taking anthropomorphism too far.

The latest episode of Dynasties on BBC1 featured the emperor penguins of the Antarctic — and was a triumph in many wonderful ways

Then there was the hushed, portentous voiceover by Sir David Attenborough, talking of penguin love (‘the process of finding the perfect partner cannot be hurried’) and their domestic dilemmas.

‘This mother had to make a terrible choice: to save herself, she has abandoned her chick,’ he whispered.

The penguin in question ambled up an ice gully without a backwards glance, leaving junior to freeze to death accompanied by the sweep of super-sad orchestral music.

It was like Sophie’s Choice — with flippers.

But this creeping tendency in nature programmes to stir up emotions and to entertain more than educate is pernicious.

Like everyone else, I love penguins, but they are wild creatures, not characters in a particularly heart-rending episode of SouthEnders. Let’s stop this guano now.

A fishnet stocking table lamp in mint condition. A selection of velvet smoking jackets (some slight staining to front). A set of chunky Playboy logo cufflinks for the lothario in your life. Yes, walk, don’t run, to the Hugh Hefner auction, in which his personal trinkets will go on sale to raise funds for his Foundation. ‘And to protect his legacy,’ said one of Heff’s women, presumably meaning herself. Among the items to be sold are a black book detailing the private highlights of Hefner’s sex life and a statue of Betty Boop — although it is not clear if these two items are related. Photos of his Playboy Mansion boudoir reveal a wall covered in pictures of the person he loved the most . . . himself. Aren’t men awful?

The Informer is dark, shadowy . . . and super

The Informer, on BBC1, has been one of the best police dramas of 2018, but has inexplicably received little of the praise and hysteria that surrounded Bodyguard.

The latter, starring Richard Madden as the protection officer who slept with Home Secretary Keeley Hawes, was hugely enjoyable, but in a pantomime kind of way.

The Informer, on the other hand, is thrilling, authentic, dark and firmly rooted in its East London world. It stars Nabhaan Rizwan as Raza Shah, a warehouse worker recruited as an informer by counter-terrorism officers from the Metropolitan Police. My worries that writers Rory Haines and Sohrab Noshirvani’s thriller would present the cops as state-sponsored assassins, while Islamic State were merely misunderstood youths, were unfounded.

Instead, their complex view of this shadowy world is both gripping and believable. In addition, limpid-eyed Rizwan — in his first role — is a gifted actor with a charisma that burns off the screen. The boxset is still on BBC iPlayer. Don’t miss it!

====== 1960 ========

I'M A CELEBRITY: OLIVIA ATTWOOD SENDS FANS INTO MELTDOWN OVER HER 'G-STRING' DENIM SHORTS

She jetted to Australia earlier this week to appear on the hit ITV series' spin-off show.

And Olivia Attwood sent I'm A Celebrity: Extra Camp viewers into meltdown on Wednesday night over her 'G-string' denim shorts.

The Love Island star, 27, put on a leggy display as she showed off her slender frame in the tiny item of clothing.

Daring: Olivia Attwood sent I'm A Celebrity: Extra Camp viewers into meltdown on Wednesday night over her 'G-string' denim shorts

She teamed the denim hot pants with a snakeskin patterned shirt, which she tied into a knot at the front, and a pair of studded black heel boots.

And Olivia's 'G-string' denim shorts didn't go unnoticed by her co-stars for the evening as presenter Joel Dommett took to his Instagram to tease her before going on-air.

Sharing a video panning over her outfit and then the torrential rain outside, the comedian, 32, said: 'Shortest shorts ever, look at the weather... really inappropriate!'

Work it: The Love Island star, 27, put on a leggy display as she showed off her slender frame in the tiny item of clothing

Cheeky!: She teamed the denim hot pants with a snakeskin patterned shirt, which she tied into a knot at the front, and a pair of studded black heel boots

While fellow guest for the evening, Andi Peters, 48, quipped that her tiny shorts were a 'denim G-string', to which Olivia replied: 'They have gone right up there and all!'

Show watchers at home also took to Twitter to comment on the tiny item of clothing and how hilarious the blonde model is.

One person said: 'Olivia Atwoods legs wow, #ExtraCamp they go all the way to Sydney.'

Banter: And Olivia's 'G-string' denim shorts didn't go unnoticed by her co-stars for the evening as presenter Joel Dommett took to his Instagram to tease her before going on-air

Another show watcher put: 'Holy c**p, Olivia jeez girl those "shorts" #ImACeleb #ExtraCamp.' (sic)

While a different viewer added: 'Olivia Attwood cracks me up so much fully wish I was her best mate.'

Also during the same episode, Joel returned to his hosting duties following his freak on-set head injury.

Ouch!: Also during the same episode, Joel returned to his hosting duties following his freak on-set head injury

One day before the funnyman, who appeared on the 2016 series of the show, was rushed to hospital with a head injury after a part of the show's set crashed onto his head in windy conditions leading to a dramatic headdress.

While fans were delighted to see the star return to screens, his bandages did tickle audiences as one fan noted on Twitter that he looked like a pirate while others lauded him for returning to screens so swiftly after his accident.

I'm A Celebrity: Extra Camp continues on weeknights at 10:30pm on ITV2.

====== 1961 ========

KATE MOSS FALLS OUT WITH HER FRIEND KNOWN AS THE 'PARTY ROTTWEILER’

She was once dubbed the ‘the party rott-weiler’ because of her refusal to admit entry to anyone whom she deemed not important enough.

Now it seems that former PR supremo Fran Cutler found herself out in the cold after a spectacular falling-out with her best friend of more than 20 years, supermodel Kate Moss.

Cutler, 55, a publican’s daughter from Islington, inadvertently sent an unflattering image of Kate, accompanied by critical comments about her looks, to the Croydon-born clothes horse.

‘She meant to send her observations to a friend,’ I‘m told.

Kate Moss and Fran Cutler pictured together arm-in-arm on a night out in March 2018

‘But she was mortified when she discovered she had sent it to Kate by mistake.’

Moss was far from amused. The result was Cutler was cut out of the 44-year-old’s friendship circle.

During the Nineties and Noughties, Fran was tasked with organising the notorious hedonistic parties in which actor Jude Law and his then wife Sadie Frost partied alongside Moss, when the group earned the infamous moniker the Primrose Hill Set. She started her own party-planning business with Meg Mathews and was dubbed the Queen of Parties.

Friends thought that the pair might have been able to patch things up at the funeral of their mutual friend Annabelle Neilson, who died tragically in July, but words were exchanged.

However, there is light on the horizon. I’m told by another mutual friend, Kara Rose Marshall, that Cutler and Moss ‘are friends again’.

Perhaps their offspring unwittingly played peacemakers at Kate’s daughter Lila’s 16th birthday, which Fran’s cherished daughter Mercy, 17, attended at the Dorchester Hotel.

Their girls have been best friends since they were small children. All’s well that ends well, hopefully.

====== 1962 ========

LOOSE WOMEN INTERVIEW WITH MR BLOBBY ON BREXIT

His lifelong pal Noel Edmonds has become a campmate in I'm A Celebrity and Mr Blobby was invited out of retirement to appear on Loose Women on Thursday.

But viewers of the show slammed the chaotic segment, saying the show had 'stopped to a new low' when the panel asked him about his views on Brexit.

When Mr Blobby came on the show, he fell over, as he always does, and Andrea McLean had to pick him up and put him back on his feet.

Are you sure? Loose Women was accused of 'stooping to a new low' during a chaotic interview with MR BLOBBY about BREXIT on Thursday... (even though he can only say one word)

Panellist Jane Moore said: ‘Do you think that if there’s a no deal and we slash the 12,651 EU protectionist tariffs, will that result in a loss or a gain to the UK treasury?’

Panellist Jane Moore said: ‘Do you think that if there’s a no deal and we slash the 12,651 EU protectionist tariffs, will that result in a loss or a gain to the UK treasury?’

Mr Blobby responded by saying his name over and over again for around ten seconds before she had to cut him short, saying: 'Mr Blobby says no.'

Viewers were not impressed.

Could have asked Farage? Mr Blobby responded by saying his name over and over again for around ten seconds before she had to cut him short, saying: 'Mr Blobby says no'

Switching over: Viewers were not impressed by the segment which they deemed to be a waste of time and accused the show of 'dumbing down'

Is this the best we can do? While the segment was deemed to be 'fun' by some viewers, it's fair to say that Andrea McLean and Nadia Sawalha appeared to have their doubts

They wrote: 'Loose women scraped a new low with that ridiculous segment with Mr Blobby, bl**dy stupid.

'Mr Blobby actually terrifies me. What a stupid guest. Argh. #loosewomen.'

'Have always considered #LooseWomen dumbed down TV but having Mr Blobby on, it plumbs a new low.'

Not happy: Viewers expressed their irritation on Twitter in their droves

'@loosewomen this is so cringe, four women interviewing Mr Blobby? Isn’t this supposed to be a serious daytime TV show? so CRINGE and gone very DOWNHILL.'

F*** off this is fucking stupid talking about #brexit with Mr blobby. F*** off itv f*** off #loosewomen@loosewomen

'Really, Mr Blobby is the best guest you can get. You do know we can’t understand a single thing.... I’ve turned off.'

He's a long way from Essex now: Fellow guest, James Argent made sure to catch up with Mr Blobby when he appeared on the show

What can go wrong?: James even had his make-up appled by Noel Edmonds' BFF

Mr Blobby was Noel Edmonds' hapless sidekick on Noel Edmonds' House Party during the nineties.

And some viewers were thrilled to see the pink character back on screens.

They wrote: 'MR BLOBBY! My childhood is complete used to love Mr Blobby as a kid! #LooseWomen #MrBlobby.'

'Mr blobby for prime minister @loosewomen.'

Sidekick: Noel and Mr Blobby go way back and would appear on TV shows together in the 90s

'Mr Blobby on @loosewomen was hilarious!!!'

Noel discussed his friend while in the jungle, saying his life went downhill after he bought a bar in Marbella.

He said: 'You know the story? After the whole American experience and whatever, he got a bar in Marbella and Mrs Blobby left with the kids and he drank the profits frankly.

‘It was never gonna work when you think of the climate in Marbella. That smell of rubber was putting people off, so he is a shadow of his former self.’

====== 1963 ========

