Scientists have reported that 220,000 pieces of plastic were found along one 37-mile stretch of coastline, including plastic bags, bottle caps and cotton bud sticks.

A huge study that analysed where plastic packaging ended up found the 220,802 plastic items along only nine beaches in Cornwall. They represented 89 per cent of the litter found on the beaches.

Among them were 2,509 cotton bud sticks, thought to have been flushed down toilets, 13,115 drinks caps and lids, 3,109 drinks bottles and more than 81,000 unidentifiable plastic fragments – thought to have been in the sea for decades.

Study co-author Adam Porter, from the University of Exeter, said at the time: 'Many people blame beach users for not putting their litter in the bin, they blame fishermen for dumping waste, but our study shows the majority of waste is made up of fragmented plastics which have been in the sea for a long time and broken down – and these come from all of us.

'We need to use plastics responsibly, and they need to be recycled to protect the hundreds of animal groups known to be swallowing this waste.'

Julian Kirby, Friends of the Earth campaigner, said: 'These are shocking findings but we don't need more evidence of this problem, it's clear that the absolutely unacceptable damage to wildlife and our natural environment is beyond calamitous.

'What's needed is the will to do something and a good place to start is with a deposit return scheme - incentivising people to treat plastic as something other than rubbish.

'Nobody wants polluted oceans and littered beaches. To that end it's also worth recognising that those with the most responsibility for this waste, and the most power to do something about it, are the companies that make and ferociously market it in the first place.

'This should be the rightful focus of government to end the scourge of plastics pollution once and for all.'

====== 997 ========

THE STUNNING ENTRIES SUBMITTED TO THE NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC PHOTO CONTEST 2018

It's one of the most prestigious photography competitions - so it's no surprise that the some of the entries for this year's National Geographic Photo Contest are truly stunning.

The annual contest honours photographers who have captured jaw-dropping shots from around the world, whether they be of wildlife, people or landscapes.

Here, with permission from National Geographic, we present 10 of this year's jaw-dropping entries.

They include a photograph of dramatic summer lightning storm over Greece, two bear cubs embracing in Alaska and a haunting image of a mountain in Australia at night.

There is also a picture of sombre Day of the Dead celebrations in Guatemala and a stunning underwater photograph showing a diver in a deep natural pit in Mexico.

The winner of the 2018 contest is set to be announced next month, and there are also prizes on offer in three categories including wildlife, people and places. Scroll down and marvel.

Photographer Alexandros Maragos captured this dramatic shot of a severe summer thunderstorm over Athens in June

Two bear cubs share an embrace in a sweet snap taken by Heather Nicole in Lake Clark National Park in Alaska. She said: 'One of the many highlights of the trip was watching these adorable cubs run, play and wrestle with each other. I was lucky enough to snap this shot as they took a very brief break from playtime to enjoy a moment of peace. Don't worry, momma was very close by watching their every move'

American photographer Buck Holzemer took this sombre image of the Day of the Dead procession that winds through the streets of Antigua in Guatemala on November 1 each year

French photographer Guillaume Néry travelled to Mexico, where he took this stunning underwater image in a cenote. He said: 'A cenote is a natural deep pit of crystal clear water that is found especially in Central America. They were once considered by the Mayan people as sacred. In the heart of the Yucatàn jungle, a free-diver was joining the surface of the cenote with the sun's rays as a guide when the light behind him formed the illusion of an underwater face'

Todd Kennedy captured this haunting image of a remote mountain illuminated at night with aerial lighting in Australia's Northern Territory, which he says reveals a face in the rock. He said: 'Taking this shot was surreal. The wind made audible language like sounds and it was as if the mountain's spirit was talking to me. The hairs stood up on my skin and I left the site immediately. It was only after reviewing the images I saw the face that had been staring at me'

Aprison Aprison snapped this colourful image next to Mount Bromo on the island of East Java in Indonesia during a 'kasodo' event. He said: 'They are hoping for some offerings from visitors and tourists. Visitors can drop chicken, goats, money and other valuable things to seek blessing from the God. Locals below try to catch it by using the net. They stand around a crater and try to balance to stop themselves from falling in'

Susan Blick captured the image on the left showing the hustle and bustle of the streets of Paharganj in India. She explained: 'We stopped for a break at a rooftop cafe, it was late afternoon, the light was softening and the street shadows were disappearing. I set up my tripod and with the help of an ND filter, I lowered my exposure to eight seconds to add emotion to the scene.' Pictured right is a scenic shot of river rapids in Slovenia captured by French photographer Hugo Grandcolas. He said: 'I love to capture details and for me this Red Kayak in rapids was a great opportunity. In the middle of my landscape, it represents everything I need for an adventure photograph'

A brown bear growls a warning of his presence to an interloper with his breath vanishing slowly in a windless forest in Romania in an image captured by photographer Bence Mate

====== 998 ========

'EDEN PROJECT NORTH' DESIGN FOR MORECAMBE BAY UNVEILED

The Eden Project has unveiled the design for a new £80million major attraction that may be built in Morecambe Bay.

Two artist's impressions show what the giant seafront pavilions, inspired by the shape of a mussel, would look like in what has been dubbed 'Eden Project North'.

The Cornwall-based environmental charity completed a feasibility study for the project in September and is now seeking funding to make it a reality.

An artist's impression showing the proposed design for an Eden Project North that may be built in Morecambe Bay, costing £80million

Central to the Eden Project North vision in Morecambe is a series of pavilions, which could house a variety of environments.

These would include both indoor and outdoor experiences, including lidos, gardens and observatories and will be aimed at 'connecting people with the internationally significant natural environment for Morecambe Bay'.

Eden is working with Grimshaw, the architecture firm that designed its world-famous rainforest and Mediterranean biomes, on the unique structure, with a focus on the marine environment.

The prime site of the proposal was formerly occupied by the Bubbles swimming pool and Dome theatre.

The giant seafront pavilions are inspired by the shape of a mussel and will include both indoor and outdoor experiences, including lidos, gardens and observatories

Dave Harland, chief executive of Eden Project International Limited, said: 'We're incredibly proud to present our vision for Eden Project North and hope that the people of Morecambe and the surrounding area are as excited about it as we are.

'We aim to reimagine what a seaside destination can offer, with a world-class tourist attraction that is completely in tune with its natural surroundings.

'Morecambe is a unique and beautiful location, perfectly situated near the Lake District and Yorkshire Dales.

The Eden Project is working with Grimshaw, the architecture firm, to create the unique structure for Morecambe Bay, pictured

'It's so heartening to be working with partners who share our ambitions and aspirations for the town and region.'

The original Eden Project project opened near St Austell in Cornwall in 2001, nestled in a huge crater.

The massive biomes house the largest rainforest in captivity as well as stunning plants, exhibitions and summer concerts.

It has welcomed more than 20million visitors through its door since opening.

====== 999 ========

THE ROBOTIC HOTEL ROOM ON WHEELS BY APRILLI DESIGN STUDIO - IS THIS THE FUTURE OF TRAVEL?

It's the world's poshest taxi - and a glimpse into the future of travelling.

Toronto-based Aprilli Design Studio has designed a hotel suite housed within a self-driving vehicle, which means travellers could journey through the night after simply telling the robotic suite where they'd like to go.

Renderings reveal how the battery-powered hotel-room-on-wheels includes panoramic windows, a double bed, a desk area, a shower room and a retractable roof where room service can be dropped off via drones.

Scroll down for video

Toronto-based Aprilli Design Studio has designed a hotel suite housed within a self-driving vehicle

Renderings reveal how the battery-powered hotel-room-on-wheels includes panoramic windows, a double bed, a desk area, a shower room and a retractable roof where room service can be dropped off via drones

Aprilli says that its Autonomous Travel Suite 'is equipped with the basic sleeping, working, and washroom facilities, allowing the guests to use their travel time more efficiently and productively'.

To ensure guests are comfortable, there will be an integrated temperature control system, which responds to climates automatically.

The vehicle's designers note that travellers would simply specify the route they wanted to take via an app.

They could program stops along the way, or just journey straight through to their final destination.

So that travellers wouldn't miss out on the usual perks of staying in a hotel, Aprilli says it plans to install dozens of hotel facilities across road networks.

The robotic suite 'is equipped with the basic sleeping, working, and washroom facilities, allowing the guests to use their travel time more efficiently and productively'

The vehicle's designers note that travellers would simply specify the route they wanted to take via an app. They could program stops along the way, or just journey straight through to their final destination

So that travellers wouldn't miss out on the usual perks of staying in a hotel, Aprilli says it plans to install a network of hotel facilities across road networks. These stop-off points (seen above) would house 'public amenities such as food and beverage, meeting room, spa, pool, and gym along with housekeeping, maintenance, and charging services for the travel suites'

These stop-off points would house 'public amenities such as food and beverage, meeting room, spa, pool, and gym along with housekeeping, maintenance, and charging services for the travel suites'.

The vehicles would run on batteries, and Aprilli imagines that there will be charging points conveniently positioned along roadways so that there will be no delays or breakdowns.

Aprilli says the main benefits of its Autonomous Travel Suite is that it will save money and time.

Its creators note: 'Compared to domestic flights or train travels that require multiple steps of transfers and check-ins throughout the travel, Autonomous Travel Suite operates as your personal rental car and hotel room, providing unlimited flexibility and mobility at a cheaper cost.

'If more than one person is travelling, the overall travel cost becomes even more competitive.'

Aprilli's cutting-edge hotel concept scored the top prize at this year's Radical Innovation Award, which honours the world's most innovative ideas relating to hospitality.

====== 1000 ========

INCREDIBLE MAPS SHOW HOW HUMANS HAVE DEVASTATED THE PLANET IN JUST 25 YEARS

From deforestation in the tropics to the devastation of the Aral Sea, these incredible maps show how humans have irrevocably changed the planet in the space of just 25 years.

Researchers created the maps using high-resolution satellite images from the European Space Agency.

Nearly a quarter of the Earth's habitable surface has been changed - primarily from forest to agriculture - between 1992 and 2015.

Scroll down for video

From deforestation in the tropics to the devastation of the Aral Sea, these incredible maps show how humans have irrevocably changed the planet in the space of just 25 years. White indicates little or no change. Darker shades indicate the highest rate of change in each category. Pictured is a broad view of landscape change across Europe and Asia

Professor Tomasz Stepinski from the University of Cincinnati (UC) created the map, which he says 'raises alarm bells' about our impact on the environment.

'We already knew about deforestation or wetland loss or increasing urbanisation. But now we can see exactly where all of that is happening,' he said.

In 1992, the European Space Agency began capturing satellite images of the Earth to study climate change.

Surface cover can dramatically influence temperature depending on whether it absorbs or reflects sunlight.

Likewise, forest cover absorbs more carbon dioxide than urban areas.

The satellite images are so detailed, researchers could organise them into 300-square-metre (3,200-square-foot) grids called pixels.

Each pixel identified changes among 22 land-use categories describing various types of farmland, forest, wetlands, grasslands or urban development.

'What makes this so depressing is that it's examining a timescale that is shorter than our lifetime,' Professor Stepinski said.

Nearly a quarter of the Earth's habitable surface has been changed between 1992 and 2015. The map of the United States shows huge losses of wetlands in the Southeast along with growing urbanisation outside cities

The map shows that the Sahara Desert in North Africa is growing (pictured). The European Space Agency in 1992 began capturing satellite images of the Earth to study climate change

Researchers say that the most obious examples of changing land use were found around cities.

'The direct impact of human actions is reflected in the patterns of urbanization', said the study's lead author and former UC postdoctoral fellow Jakub Nowosad.

'For example, you can see suburbanisation and cities densification in North America and Europe.'

The map shows that the Sahara Desert in North Africa is growing.

'This is the transition area called the Sahel. And if you notice, you see grassland losses because of climate change — more desertification,' Professor Stepinski said.

The map of the United States shows huge losses of wetlands in the Southeast along with growing urbanisation outside cities.

Western China has seen vast urbanisation while India's most obvious development has been in its smaller cities, according to the research published in the International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation.

The satellite images are so detailed, researchers could organise them into 300-square-metre (3,200-square-foot) grids called pixels. Each pixel identified changes among 22 land-use categories describing various types of farmland, forest, wetlands, grasslands or urban development

Pictured is a map of forest losses (red) and gains (blue) in South America during 1992 to 2015. Different shades show the magnitude of losses and gains. The map does not draw any inferences about what the next 24 years might bring but demographics suggest our footprint will only get bigger

The map illustrates the dramatic disappearance of the Aral Sea, which dried up in the 1990s after farmers in Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan diverted its tributaries for cotton fields.

'I hope this map will make people more aware of the human impact on our planet,' Dr Nowosad said.

'As a society, we need to be better informed of the scale of changes we make to the Earth, and in my opinion, this awareness can influence future changes in environmental policies.'

The map does not draw any inferences about what the next 24 years might bring but demographics suggest our footprint will only get bigger.

'Human population is still increasing, creating more demand for land and natural resources,' Dr Nowosad said.

'Also, we know that societies in developed countries use more resources; therefore, with increasing development in poorer countries we can expect that pressure on land will be even larger than just predicted as an effect of population growth.'

====== 1001 ========

FASCINATING ANIMATION SHOWS HOW AIRLINE PILOTS ARE GUIDED FROM ONE SIDE OF AMERICA TO THE OTHER

Have you ever wondered how pilots are guided through the incredibly crowded skies of America, where 43,000 flights take place a day?

This fascinating animation from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reveals just how it's done, with a step-by-step explanation of the processes involved.

Using an example of a five hour and ten-minute flight from Los Angeles to Baltimore, it shows how 28 controllers in 11 command centers are involved with the journey, with each expert monitoring progress meticulously - as there are normally around 5,000 aircraft in the sky at any one time.

A fascinating animation from the FAA reveals how planes are guided through the skies

The animation takes viewers through the process, from take-off to landing.

The first step is the pilot contacting the Los Angeles tower ground controller and requesting permission to taxi to the runway for departure, the video explains.

The pilot is cleared for take-off by the Los Angeles tower local controller and is airborne one minute later.

The tower local controller tells the pilot to contact the Southern California approach control facility (Tracon) and the Tracon controller instructs him or her to climb to 17,000 feet.

The pilot is then cleared to climb to 23,000 feet by the first controller in the LA Air Route Traffic Control Center.

After this a controller in the next sector clears the pilot to ascend to 35,000 feet.

Shortly after this, controllers in the Albuquerque Center take over.

They then clear the aircraft to climb to 37,000 feet.

While airborne, the pilot is instructed to contact various control facilities to receive guidance

Along the way, most of the controllers were monitoring progress of the plane on computer screens hundreds of miles away from it

The FAA says that controllers in adjoining sectors communicate with each other to make sure the altitude change is safe.

Dinner service is now under way and the plane enters Denver Center's airspace, then the Kansas City Center sector.

Here the pilot contacts controllers in four more Kansas City Center sectors.

Then it's on to the Indianapolis Center sector and the Cleveland Sector.

The latter tells the pilot to descend to 25,000 feet.

Then the Washington Center tells the pilot to descend to 15,000 feet and to contact approach control.

A controller at the Washington Metropolitan Area approach control facility, Potomac Tracon, takes control of the aircraft. The controller tells the pilot to descend to 6,000 feet and clears the pilot to approach Baltimore–Washington International Airport.

The plane then descends to 4,000 feet and contacts the local controller at the Baltimore-Washington Airport air traffic control tower.

It makes a safe landing and a ground controller guides it to the gate.

Along the way, most of the controllers were monitoring progress of the plane on computer screens hundreds of miles away from it.

====== 1002 ========

THE NOT SO LEANING TOWER OF PISA: ITALIAN BELL TOWER'S SLANT IS REDUCED BY 1.57 INCHES

The Leaning Tower of Pisa isn't leaning so much any more.

After more than two decades of efforts to straighten it, engineers say the famed Tuscan bell tower is in better structural health than previously thought and has recently recovered four more centimeters (1.57 inches).

According to Professor Salvatore Settis, this is the equivalent of taking two centuries off its age.

A consultant to the international committee monitoring the tilt, Nunziante Squeglia, said that while the progressive recovery of tilt is good news, the overall structural health of the tower is more important.

A view of the 12th century, 55-meter (180 ft) leaning tower. The tower was closed to tourists in 1990 (pictured) for fear it might topple over as it leans on its south side

In 1987 the Tower of Pisa was declared a World Heritage Site by the United Nation's cultural organisation Unesco, but as fears grew that it would topple over it was closed to the public in 1990 and engineers worked to stabilise it for the next 11 years.

The 12th-century tower was reopened to the public in 2001 and remained open throughout a restoration costing almost £6million - partly to keep tourists happy, but partly because the revenue from ticket sales helped pay for the upkeep. The tower attracts over one million visitors a year.

By using hundreds of tons of lead counterweights at the base and extracting soil from under the foundations, engineers initially shaved 17 inches off the lean.

The tower's famous lean appeared about five years after construction began in 1173, and before the structure was finished.

The clay and sand below the tower is far softer on the south side than the north, and had already started to shift when the builders were working on the third of the tower's eight stories.

Just seven miles from the Mediterranean Sea on the west coast of Italy, the tower, weighs some 14,500 metric tonnes and is visited by more than one million tourists every year

This resulted in the now-iconic defection in the tower, but initially it meant construction was paused with only the first three stories completed.

After a 90-year hiatus, engineers restarted work on the tower and built the additional floors diagonally in an attempt offset the tilt.

Further disruptions meant the completion of the structure - a symbol of the maritime might of the republic of Pisa - was delayed until 1372, a full 199 years after it began.

Just seven miles from the Mediterranean Sea on the west coast of Italy, the tower, which weighs some 14,500 metric tonnes, is frequently battered by storms that have eroded and discoloured it.

But it has proved sturdy enough to withstand at least four powerful earthquakes that have rocked the Tuscany region in central Italy.

The distinctive, yellowish stone came from the quarries of San Giuliano, visible from the top of the tower on the green hills behind Pisa.

Experts say the seven-storey bell tower should now be safe from further intervention for at least the next 200 years.

====== 1003 ========

NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC'S PRIMAL SURVIVOR STAR HAZEN AUDEL REVEALS HIS TOP 10 MOST EXTREME PLACES

If you're squeamish then you might want to click away from this now.

National Geographic's Primal Survivor star Hazen Audel has revealed to MailOnline Travel the top ten most extreme places he's visited, with his least savoury moments including surviving on cow's blood in Kenya, fending off trench foot in Panama and battling severe typhoons in Vanuatu.

The 44-year-old survival guide and biologist was born and raised in the U.S. before heading out to live with a tribe in the wilds of Ecuador at the age of 19. Scroll down to find out more about the hair-raising places he's been to since.

The remote rainforests of Ecuador, where my adventures began

From the age of 19, Hazen Audel lived with the Huaorani and Quechua tribes that lived deep in the rainforests of Ecuador

This is where it all began for me!

From the age of 19 I lived with the Huaorani and Quechua tribes that lived deep in the rainforests of Ecuador, which was where the pilot episode for my first series with National Geographic, Survive the Tribe, was filmed.

I'm lucky that the pilot series was a success which then led to more seasons of Primal Survivor on the National Geographic Channel – I mean it was sure to be a success, right? It was basically filmed in my backyard with my people!

Tribal living in north-central Kenya

Whilst filming one episode of his show in Kenya, Hazen said he ate nothing but fresh cow blood and milk for two weeks

Survival in the territory of the Samburu tribe would be impossible if it weren't for their ability to live with their cattle.

Whilst filming this episode – Blood Warriors – I ate nothing but fresh cow blood and milk for two weeks.

Enough said…

Battling tropical typhoons on Vanuatu

While filming in the tropical islands of Vanuatu, Hazen and his camera team were hit by a 'hellish' typhoon

While filming in the tropical islands of Vanuatu, it wasn't the crystal blue coral reefs, pearly white sandy beaches and tropical paradise everyone was expecting.

Instead a neighbouring typhoon made it hellish. The film crew got severe trench foot from the torrential conditions and even though I spent the whole shoot barefoot (as I usually do to avoid trench foot), I was still covered in cuts and festering wounds.

Fire ants and rats were biting us throughout the nights and rats ate nearly all the crew's food rations. Eight months on from the expedition, the skin and wounds still hadn't fully healed.

Extreme heat in Kenya's Lake Turkana region

Hazen says he thinks the Lake Turkana region in Kenya is one of the most inhospitable places to live with 'dry and scorching hot' terrain

Filming with the Rendille Tribe in the Lake Turkana region in Kenya, I realised this is probably one of the most inhospitable places to live out of all my travels.

The heat was so extreme – so dry and scorching hot – and the terrain was solid rock as far as you could see.

But the Rendille tribe proved to be the toughest people imaginable to be able to call a place like this home.

Life above 14,000ft in the Mustang District of Nepal

In the first series of Primal Survivor, Hazen travelled to Nepal to join the Loba nomads in the Kingdom of Mustang

While in the Himalayas, Hazen collected yak dung as a source of kindling to make fires

In the first series of Primal Survivor, I travelled to Nepal to join the Loba nomads in the Kingdom of Mustang herding and living off yaks along the melting snowline in the Himalayas at a crazy 14,000 feet!

There is so little oxygen at this altitude with no trees for fuel so we had to get creative.

Our only source of 'kindling' to make a fire and keep warm was yak dung.

National Geographic's Primal Survivor: The lowdown Survival Instructor and biologist Hazen Audel can be seen in Primal Survivor, every Thursday at 8pm on National Geographic. Primal Survivor documents his adventures as he travels to some of the most extreme places on the planet, taking on solo challenges that will push him to the limit of his knowledge, endurance and skills. After first living with the locals to understand their way of life, he then tackles some of the most rigorous journeys in the world, where he must rely on natural instinct and ancient techniques honed over thousands of years to make it out alive. During each episode he will answer the killer question - how does anyone survive here? During the latest series Hazen heads deep into the Guyana jungle in South America to find Makushi tribesmen, fighting along waters filled with hungry predators including piranha and huge cayman. Hazen is challenged to a night hunt to catch a giant fish big enough to feed an entire Makushi village. In Kenya he battles scorching African plains to find the Rendille Warriors who are guarding their camels in the heart of the desert. He must return two of the camels to the village elders, keeping them safe from hyena and lions as he travels across the lands. Other destinations in the series include the Island of Gaua, Vanuata, the forests of Inner Mongolia, and remote tribal areas of China.

Melting in 110-degree heat in the Sahara Desert, Morocco

In another Primal Survivor episode, Hazen found himself on a five-day trek through the Sahara Desert with nothing but a camel for survival

In another Primal Survivor episode, I found myself near the Nigerian border, taking on the challenge to mirror the traditional Berber nomads' five-day trek through the Sahara Desert with nothing but a camel for survival.

It's just not possible to survive being outside without shade in the middle of the day with temperatures reaching over 110 degrees (43C). To make matters worse, my camel, Hemel, was not very cooperative and deserted me mid-journey.

I had to use up valuable energy and water stores in my body to track him back down or else we both would be been goners! The crew had it tough too - camera cables melted from the extreme heat and the sand destroyed one of the cameras!

Flesh-eating parasites and tropical diseases in Papua New Guinea

While in Papua New Guinea, Hazen travelled up the Sepik River in search of a remote community of ex-cannibals

On this adventure, I was travelling up the mighty Sepik River in Papua New Guinea in search of a remote community of ex-cannibals.

Papua New Guinea is thriving with life - but a lot of that life is flesh-eating parasites.

Layers of mosquitos, sand flies and horse flies were constantly biting you and the threat of contracting tropical diseases is probably the highest in the world. On the plus side, there were lots of things to find to eat, but there were also lots of things that wanted to eat you back!

Living solo with 200 reindeer in the Arctic Circle

In northern Scandinavia, Hazen took on a solo mission to deliver 200 reindeer to their spring breeding grounds

I nearly lost two toes to frostbite from walking for miles day after day in the frozen tundra

In Northern Scandinavia, 300 miles inside the Arctic Circle where temperatures reach as low as -40 degrees, I took on a solo mission to deliver 200 reindeer to their spring breeding grounds.

Keeping up with the reindeer and looking after them in the deep snow didn't allow me to be able to look after myself.

I nearly lost two toes to frostbite from walking for miles day after day in the frozen tundra, sleeping in survival snow caves at night and not being able to keep dry and warm.

Trench foot and one cup of food for dinner at Panama's Darien Gap

Hazen says the Darien Gap in Panama has a reputation of being one of the most challenging jungles in the Americas

While navigating the Darien Gap, Hazen's crew were stricken by debilitating trench foot as they trekked through rivers

This one's for the crew! The Darien Gap in Panama has always had a reputation of being one of the most impassable and challenging jungles in the Americas.

Because of the remoteness, the relentless terrain and constant river crossings, the crew were stricken with debilitating trench foot and after a gruelling day of filming, they had to set up camp in jungle hammocks and were restricted to just one cup of water and one cup of dehydrated food each night for dinner.

For the crew, this goes down as the most arduous and difficult film expedition of their careers.

The deep waters east of Borneo

Hazen says his experience with the Badjau Sea Gypsies in the deep waters east of Borneo stills leaves him in disbelief

My experience with the Badjau Sea Gypsies stills leaves me in disbelief.

Before I met these guys, I thought it was humanly impossible for people to swim and hunt at such depths in the ocean on a single breath hold but the athleticism of the Badjau is almost superhuman.

Everyday I am thankful that I didn't drown

From a fascination with bugs as a child to living in the jungle: How Hazen Audel became an intrepid explorer So this big adventure started some time ago. It started with a child-like fascination with bugs and snakes that I never grew out of. And since my fixation about looking for more bugs never wore off it was the direction I would take for the rest of my life. I went to college to become a biologist. The end game was to be an Ichthyologist and look for new species of freshwater tropical fish that were deep in the Amazon. I visualized a life of getting stuck in windshield-deep mud in a land cruiser and long expeditionary boat rides up unnamed rivers in the name of scientific discovery, frogs, snakes and bugs. Basically, I wanted to be part Dr Herbert R. Axelrod (my childhood hero), Sir David Attenborough and Tarzan! I was the first in my family to pursue post-high school education so quite literally I was thrown in the river - I soon found out it wasn't the Amazon. Instead it was horrible classrooms, and biology education was more about quantitative chemistry and boring things like what grows in petri dishes - nothing I felt that was pertinent to my passion for the real-life natural world and certainly it had nothing to do with adventure. So I dropped out and decided to run away… I had a coffee kettle full of cash that I made from mowing lawns in high school and my artwork - painting. My plane ticket to Ecuador was $680. That left me with about $75 left over - this would be the determining factor to how long I would be able to stay. I already had all my camping gear and tent and I figured about $20 for a 25lb bag of rice that I could live off. I could also fish in the rivers and the rest of the money would go into getting some sort of ride from the capital city, Quito (Ecuador), to 'the end of the road' - to the deepest jungle closest to the Amazon. Naivety was my greatest asset! A two-day bus ride through the Andes landed me to the end of the road to Rio Misahualli, a tributary to the Amazon, which was still two countries away. There I set up camp and spent my time gawking at the bugs, looking for snakes and feebly fishing every day. It was in the middle of nowhere. The only other people were indigenous Quechua that were living alongside the river in thatched huts and with dugout canoes. I had no language abilities and was shy so I could only watch the tribal children fishing on the other side of the river. I was wondering what they were using to catch so many fish. They were wondering why a random kid was in the middle of the jungle untangling fishing line for the past few weeks. The rumors about me must have turned into pity as more introductions were made by the locals. Then after a dinner invite one evening, I soon became their newest son. I watched the children (my newest brothers and sisters) picking leaves off plants to take home for medicine. Their houses were made with a machete and rock and with all the different kinds of trees and palms and bamboos from the forest. I watched and learned. They knew where big snakes lived and everyone in the community found great enjoyment showing me where to find all the animals and creepy-crawlies that made me light up. The 25lb bag of rice was no longer my limiting life line and now being a cared-for family member in this community, it allowed me to stay for another eight months. This then was my routine for the next five years - every summer I was going deeper and deeper with more and more drive to find out more and experience as wild as wild gets. I knew I had to go pursue even more education if I was to get the good jobs abroad so I kept charging on with academia when I could. With such unique experiences, I was awarded a scholarship to the University of Hawaii that had a graduate degree in tropical ecology and ethnobotany. Living in the islands of Hawaii and with refined studies I was able to travel in my learned style of travel to the remote islands in the South Pacific and south-east Asia. So this was the lifestyle that shaped me. After ten years of this I made the decision to not continue my life in the trenches of academia. I wanted a family and still have the ability to keep exploring in the summer, so I became a high school science and art teacher. Another ten years passed. Fixated on adventuring, learning from my tribal friends around the world and sharing my experiences with my students when I got back to teaching, I made science education videos for my students based on my summer travels and, well, long story short, the videos got better and now I am working for National Geographic making videos for the world to see what I love!

Hazen Audel can be seen in Primal Survivor, every Thursday at 8pm on National Geographic.

====== 1004 ========

AIRLINE PASSENGER WHO ASKED FOR WATER CLAIMS HE WAS GIVEN CUP OF ICE AND TOLD 'WAIT FOR IT TO MELT'

An airline passenger who asked for water during a flight delay claims he was given a glass of ice and told 'wait for it to melt'.

Shocked Gene Goh was on board a Scoot flight that was waiting to take off from Changi Airport in Singapore en route to the city of Osaka in Japan.

As he was thirsty, he asked a flight attendant if he could have some 'plain water', but was told that only bottled water was available.

Airline passenger Gene Goh claims that when he asked for water on a delayed Scoot flight, he was given a cup of ice, pictured, and told to wait for it to melt

Mr Goh took to Facebook to complain about his treatment but many of the people commenting weren't so sympathetic and told him he should have paid for a bottle of water

But Mr Goh was not prepared to pay for a bottle, so he asked for tap water.

The flight attendant gave him a cup full of ice, instead.

He then posted a picture of the glass of ice on Scoot's Facebook page, complaining it was no way to care for passengers.

He wrote: 'I was given a cup of ice and was told to wait for the ice to melt.

'All I am asking is for just a cup of water, I wouldn't care if it was from the tap.

'I hope that there could be some sort of care for passengers, not being unreasonable over here.'

But if he was hoping for sympathy, Mr Goh was in for disappointment.

Mr Goh had been traveling on a Scoot service from Changi Airport in Singapore to Osaka in Japan

Commenting on his Facebook post, 'Redles Tian Dude' said: 'Just few dollars for a mineral water. Don't tell me you couldn't afford it... stop making yourself cheap... Well done cabin crew! You did the right thing!'

'Alfred Chen' agreed, adding: 'Typical cheapskate indeed', while 'Rai Nud Din' noted: 'You're lucky to get a cup of ice... and it's free! Be thankful.'

'Tricia Namdrol Drolma' added: 'They should charge for the cup as well', and 'Von Urairat' joked: 'They were expecting you to fill it up with tap water in the lavatory!'

A Scoot spokesperson told MailOnline Travel: 'Serving complimentary drinking water on board is currently not part of our business policy, and bottled drinking water is available for purchase on our flights.'

====== 1005 ========

DISNEY GIVES A TANTALISING TASTE OF HOW ITS NEW STAR WARS LANDS ARE TAKING SHAPE

Disney has given fans a tantalising taste of how its new Star Wars lands are taking shape thanks to amazing new drone footage and renderings.

A video of the London Symphony Orchestra recording John Williams' new music for the attractions also includes incredible sweeping aerial shots that reveal how construction is progressing.

While new concept art produced by Disney has revealed what one of the settlements inside, called Black Spire Outpost, will look like.

Scroll down for video

Sweeping new drone footage showing construction of the new Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge has been released by Disney

The footage showing the construction of the new theme park attraction is set against new music composed by Oscar winner John Williams being recorded by the London Symphony Orchestra

Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge will open in Disneyland in California next summer and at Walt Disney World in Florida next autumn

Fans of the movies are treated to panoramic shots from above showing jagged mountains and villages being built

New concept art produced by Disney has revealed what one of the settlements inside, called Black Spire Outpost, will look like

Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge will open in Disneyland in California next summer and at Walt Disney World in Florida next autumn.

And in the new trailer, fans of the movies are treated to panoramic shots from above showing the jagged mountains and villages being built as scaffolding leans up against them.

Various craft can also be seen dotted around the landscape and there's a time-lapse construction of an At At, too.

While the end shot of the land gives a sneak peek at Han Solo's famous spaceship, the Millennium Falcon, as the orchestra finishes the rousing new tune.

In one sweeping shot, Han Solo's famous Millennium Falcon spaceship can be seen poking out of the landscape

The London Symphony Orchestra can be heard playing Williams' rousing music as Star Wars fans are taken on a brief tour of Galaxy's Edge

The clip has time-lapse footage showing builders hard at work constructing a replica At At

Various craft can be seen dotted around the landscape as construction continues in both Florida and California

The ambitious new attraction is part of a $2billion (£1.43billion) investment by Disney in its theme parks

Earlier this week, it was revealed that fans of the movie franchise will be able to pilot the Millennium Falcon and face off against the dark side in battle at the new lands.

Disney also revealed the names of two new major attractions at them - one will be called Millennium Falcon: Smuggler's Run and the other, Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance.

What's more, it has released two trailers for them, with the one for Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance shot inside the actual attraction.

In a new trailer Disney has revealed two of its major attractions inside its Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge lands

Millennium Falcon: Smuggler's Run, pictured, will allow guests to get behind the controls of the most famous ship in the movie franchise

The two signature attractions of the 'lands' are due to open in Disneyland in California next summer and at Walt Disney World in Florida next autumn.

On the Millennium Falcon: Smuggler's Run, Disney guests are able to go behind the controls of the most famous ship in the movie franchise in one of three unique flight crew roles.

Meanwhile on Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance, guests are put in the middle of an epic battle between the Resistance and the First Order.

The new trailer for this shows Stormtroopers patrolling corridors and the First Order coming under attack from the Resistance.

Disney has also released a trailer for the Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance ride, which was shot inside the actual attraction

On Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance, guests are put in the middle of an epic battle between the Resistance and the First Order

Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge will feature a street market and food stalls where Star Wars fans can enjoy delicacies such as blue milk. Pictured is another image from the Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance trailer

It was previously revealed that Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge will also feature a street market and food stalls where Star Wars fans can enjoy delicacies such as blue milk.

There will also be a replica Cantina bar run by character Oga Garra.

Walt Disney Imagineering executive Scott Trowbridge, who is overseeing the project, previously said: 'Our intent is to make it feel as if you just walked into one of the movies.

'Bringing to life in the physical world gives us the opportunity to play with a whole bunch of things we've never done before... to really engage all of the senses.

Pictures taken in September show the new Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge land taking shape at Walt Disney World in Florida

The images taken at Lake Buena Vista show spaceships and transmitter masts beginning to take shape alongside rocky landscapes

The new attractions will include around 10,000 tons of structural steel and 200,000 square feet of hand-carved rock work

'What does that street feel like? What does that animal smell like? What does blue milk taste like?'

The ambitious new attraction is part of a $2billion (£1.43billion) investment by Disney in its theme parks.

Once completed, it will include approximately 10,000 tons of structural steel and 200,000 square feet of hand-carved rock work.

====== 1006 ========

THE BEST AND WORST AIRLINE FOOD OF 2018 REVEALED BY DR CHARLES PLATKIN

Alaska Airlines, 4.2 stars, average calories 404

According to Dr Platkin, Alaska has taken on Virgin America's approach to healthy food after merging with it - and is the clear leader. Dr Platkin also noted that Alaska has always been committed to food, just not the healthiest, but now its offering is on the 'lighter, better and healthier side'. He found the healthiest dish on offer this year is the Mediterranean Tapas snack box.

Delta, 3.75 stars, 499 calories

Delta is praised for having a strong commitment to healthy eating but Dr Platkin criticised the airline for taking nutrient information off its website

Dr Platkin says Delta continues to have a strong commitment to healthy eating and he recommends its peanuts as being the best snack on offer. However, he noted that the airline had taken some menu items and nutrient information off its website.

JetBlue, 3.55 stars, 323 calories

For JetBlue, Dr Platkin praised the introduction of the new EatUp snack boxes but said he would like to see them on all flights, not just those over three hours. However, he added that the individual snacks on offer are relatively low in calories as well as nutritional value.

Air Canada, 3.45 stars, 346 calories

Air Canada is praised in the study for keeping nutrients high and calorie counts low. Dr Platkin commended it on offering meals rather than snack boxes, which can be unhealthy and are typically low in nutrients and high in calories.

American Airlines, 3 stars, 416 calories

American Airlines has recently started a partnership with clean food company Zoes Kitchen

American is praised by Dr Platkin for starting a new partnership with Zoes Kitchen, a clean food company focusing on a Mediterranean diet. However he criticises the airline for not publishing any food or nutritional information on its website.

United Airlines, 2.75 stars, 360 calories

Dr Platkin says that even though United is one of the biggest airlines, it still has very few good choices for passengers. He praised the airline for offering oatmeal at breakfast and a Mezze sampler for lunch but criticised it for replacing a grilled chicken sandwich with a fried or breaded chicken sandwich.

Hawaiian Airlines, 2.6 stars, 419 calories

Dr Platkin noted that Hawaiian Airlines, which was bottom of last year's table, has slashed its individual snack calories from 582 to 389. He also found that the airline’s meals are also lower in calories, down from 971 to 502. But he added that his team of nutritionists had to estimate what was in the food as the airline only gave limited information.

Allegiant Air, 2.1 stars, 335 calories

Dr Platkin says Allegiant Air is moving in the right direction when it comes to offering nutritious food

Dr Platkin says Allegiant has dropped its overall and individual snack calorie counts by almost 17 per cent by reducing portion sizes. He added that the airline is moving in the right direction when it comes to nutritious food but added it would be wonderful if it added 'a few more nutritious food items' to the menu.

Southwest Airlines, 1.6 stars, 138 calories

Dr Platkin says Southwest offers the least in terms of variety, even though all snacks are free. He suggested it road test some more healthy alternatives even if only on a trial basis. If selecting a snack, he suggests going for pretzels since the carrier has stopped serving peanuts to help protect passengers with allergies.

Spirit Airlines, 1.1 stars, 378 calories

The best bet for a satisfying snack on Spirit Airlines is the quinoa with artichoke and roasted peppers, according to Dr Platkin

For Spirit Airlines, Dr Platkin says it should start offering healthy snacks on board. He says the best bet for a satisfying snack is the airline's quinoa with artichoke and roasted peppers.

Frontier Air, 0.85 stars, 372 calories

Frontier Air's 2018 menu has remained the same since 2017 and Dr Platkin said the airline did not share much information about its menu's nutritional values. He added that the trail mix was the healthiest thing to purchase but passengers are better off bringing their own food.

====== 1007 ========

WHALES CHANGE THEIR SONGS EVERY FEW YEARS AND OPT FOR SIMPLER TUNES THAT ARE EASIER TO REMEMBER

Whales change their tune regularly in order to keep it simple for their pod to remember, experts have revealed.

Every few years the songs performed by the humpback creatures are ditched in favour of more basic alternatives.

Experts say this is the mammal's version of a re-set button and ensures that the anthemic melodies remain easy for their community to remember.

Scientists from the University of Queensland and St. Andrews University, Scotland, call this 'a cultural revolution' after studying the species for 13 years.

Scroll down for video

Whales change their tune regularly in order to keep it simple. Every few years the iconic songs of the humpback whales are ditched for more basic versions (stock)

Focusing on 95 male humpbacks from east Australia, the research revealed that gradual song changes naturally stem from individual creatures but are quickly learned by the rest of the group.

This, experts say, is partly because they animals have a limited learning capacity.

Moreover, it's easier for them to gradually amend and re-learn existing melodies as opposed to creating and reciting brand new ones.

Lead researcher Dr Jenny Allen, from Australia's University of Queensland, said: 'We examined two measures of song structure, complexity and entropy [a tendency to become more disordered].

'Complexity increased as songs evolved over time, but decreased when revolutions occurred. No correlation between complexity and entropy suggests [it would] allow males to stand out amidst population-wide conformity.

'The consistent reduction in complexity during song revolutions suggests a potential limit to the social learning capacity of novel material in humpback whales.'

The findings are published in the journal Royal Society Proceedings.

Scientists from St Andrews University in Scotland studied male humpback whales over 13 years. They found the signature songs of the species change steadily over time as they become embellished (stock)

The data comes just five months after scientists at the University of Buffalo claimed that whales sing as a form of echolocation - rather that to attract a mate.

The team, led by Eduardo Mercado III, said that - contrary to popular scientific opinion - animals are actually 'building up a picture' of their nearby surroundings by analysing the audio.

'They're trying to create a scene that would not be there otherwise. When they create these echoes it's like shining a searchlight in the dark,' Mercado said.

====== 1008 ========

INCREDIBLE FOOTAGE SHOWS A TINY SHARK EMBRYO WIGGLING AROUND INSIDE ITS TRANSPARENT EGG CASE

An American research submarine has captured incredible footage showing a tiny shark embryo wiggling around inside its transparent egg case.

Scientists believe the strange creature is a catshark in the genus scyliorhinus which is known for laying eggs on corals and sponges.

Scientists aboard the Okeanos Explorer filmed the remarkable footage near an island off the west coast of Puerto Rico, in the Caribbean as part of their work with the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

The video, filmed by the Explorer's remote submarine, initially shows what appears to be a bare coral substrate reaching out into the ocean like a long hair from the sea bed.

But as the camera zooms in, the egg case comes into focus, showing a yolk sac and a baby shark moving back and forth in the tubular case attached to the coral.

'The shark moves backwards and forwards to bring in oxygenated seawater through small slits along the edge of the egg cases and it will also open and close its mouth to pump water over the gills,' said Cat Gordon, a conservation officer at the UK-based Shark Trust who estimated the embryo to be about four or five months old.

Ms Gordon said it was likely to be a catshark, the largest shark family with at least 15 genera and over 100 species.

Their common name, catsharks, likely derives from their elongated, cat-like eyes, although their scientific name is based on the Greek words, 'Scylla,' meaning 'a shark,' and 'rhinos,' meaning 'nose.'

Members of this family tend to be small, usually less than three feet (one metre) long, and are harmless to humans.

Most catsharks live in seas above the upper continental slope, a location that makes it difficult to observe these sharks and collect specimens.

Scientists believe the strange creature is a catshark in the genus scyliorhinus which is known for laying eggs on corals and sponges

WHAT IS A CAT SHARK? The family Scyliorhinidae is the largest shark family, with at least 15 genera and over 100 species. Their common name, catsharks, likely derives from their elongated, cat-like eyes, although their scientific name is based on the Greek words, 'Scylla,' meaning 'a shark,' and 'rhinos,' meaning 'nose.' Some members of Scyliorhinidae are also commonly known as dogfish. Members of this family tend to be small, usually less than three feet (one metre) long, and are harmless to humans. Most catsharks live in seas above the upper continental slope, a location that makes it difficult to observe these sharks and collect specimens. As such, more information about catsharks remains to be discovered.

Most catsharks are small and eggcases can often take between five and nine months to hatch, she added.

'The embryo will continue to absorb the yolk sac as it develops, so similar to a bird's egg, and then when fully developed it will push through the top of the eggcase and emerge as a perfectly formed miniature version of the adult', said Ms Gordon.

'Sharks don't have any parental care so it will have to fend for itself straight away,' she added.

The empty eggcases, nicknamed mermaids' purses, can often be found on beaches around the UK.

'We've got a citizen science project called the Great Eggcase Hunt which encourages members of the public to get out on the beach and search for empty eggcases,' said Ms Gordon.

'We've had over 200,000 records submitted from all around the world now, but sadly never from the Caribbean.'

====== 1009 ========

FASCINATING RENDERINGS SHOW WHAT CASTLES LOOKED LIKE BEFORE FALLING TO RUIN

It's wobbly screen time for some of Britain's most impressive ruined castles - because they've been rebuilt using digital wizardry.

Here we present current pictures of six UK castles along with animated reconstructions that show them in all their former glory.

Scroll down for a fascinating glimpse into the past.

Dunluce Castle, Northern Ireland

The iconic ruin of Dunluce Castle on the dramatic coastal cliffs of north County Antrim in Ireland bears witness to a tumultuous history

It was first built by the MacQuillan family around 1500 and was later seized by the MacDonnell clan, which set about stamping its mark on the castle under the leadership of the famous warrior chieftain Sorely Boy MacDonnell

The ruin of Dunluce Castle on the dramatic coastal cliffs of north County Antrim in Northern Ireland bears witness to a tumultuous history.

It was first built by the MacQuillan family around 1500 and was later seized by the MacDonnell clan, which set about stamping its mark on the castle under the leadership of the famous warrior chieftain Sorely Boy MacDonnell.

According to the castle's website, it was Sorley Boy's grandson, the 2nd Earl of Antrim, and his wife who finally decided to abandon Dunluce. The site notes: 'In 1639 as they were waiting for dinner one evening the kitchen, along with kitchen staff, fell into the sea. This is thought to have been the final straw.'

Dunstanburgh Castle, Northumberland

Dunstanburgh Castle, which stands on a remote headland in Northumberland, was built by Earl Thomas of Lancaster in 1313 during a time when his relationship with King Edward II had become openly hostile

Unfortunately the earl failed to reach the fortress when his rebellion was defeated, and he was taken and executed in 1322. As the Scottish border became more stable, King James I sold the property to private owners in 1604 but it was neglected and subsequently fell into decay

Dunstanburgh Castle, which stands on a remote headland in Northumberland, was built by Earl Thomas of Lancaster in 1313 during a time when his relationship with King Edward II had become openly hostile.

Unfortunately the earl failed to reach the fortress when his rebellion was defeated, and he was taken and executed in 1322.

The castle was later passed onto John of Gaunt, who strengthened it against the Scots by converting the great twin towered gatehouse into a keep. During the Wars of the Roses the fortress was twice besieged and captured by Yorkist forces. As the Scottish border became more stable, King James I sold the property to private owners in 1604 but it was neglected and subsequently fell into decay.

Bothwell Castle, Scotland

Bothwell Castle, which sits on a steep bank above the River Clyde, in South Lanarkshire, Scotland, owes its origins to Walter of Moray, a northern aristocratic family that acquired Bothwell in 1242

The family designed the grand castle as a display of feudal pride, but their dreams were never completed with the outbreak of the Wars of Independence in 1296 delaying progress

Bothwell Castle, which sits on a steep bank above the River Clyde, in South Lanarkshire, Scotland, owes its origins to Walter of Moray, a northern aristocratic family that acquired Bothwell in 1242.

The family designed the grand castle as a display of feudal pride, but their dreams were never completed, with the outbreak of the Wars of Independence in 1296 delaying progress.

After the wars, Bothwell Castle passed to another powerful noble family, the Black Douglases, and they rebuilt the fortress following an updated design. After the Black Douglases were overthrown in 1455, Bothwell Castle changed hands several times, with it slowly deteriorating along the way. It is now managed by Historic Scotland as a monument.

Goodrich Castle, Herefordshire

Standing in open countryside above the River Wye in Herefordshire, Goodrich Castle is said to be one of the finest and best preserved examples of an English medieval castle

Experts believe it was initially built as a wooden structure after the Norman invasion and that it was replaced by a stone keep in the mid-12th century. It later became the seat of the powerful Talbot family before falling out of favour as a residence in late Tudor times. By the end of the 18th century, Goodrich had fallen into disrepair and was noted for being a picturesque ruin

Standing in open countryside above the River Wye in Herefordshire, Goodrich Castle is said to be one of the finest and best preserved examples of an English medieval castle.

Experts believe it was initially built as an earth and wooden structure after the Norman invasion and it was replaced by a stone keep in the mid-12th century.

It later became the seat of the powerful Talbot family before falling out of favour as a residence in late Tudor times. By the end of the 18th century, Goodrich had fallen into disrepair and was noted for being a picturesque ruin. It is now owned by English Heritage and open to the public.

Caerlaverock Castle, Scotland

Caerlaverock Castle in Dumfries and Galloway, Scotland, is a moated triangular fortification first built in the 13th century by the Maxwell family

It was besieged by the English during the Wars of Scottish Independence, and underwent several reconstructions over the 14th and 15th centuries. In 1640, the fortress was besieged for the last time and was subsequently abandoned

Caerlaverock Castle in Dumfries and Galloway, Scotland, is a moated triangular fortification first built in the 13th century by the Maxwell family.

It was besieged by the English during the Wars of Scottish Independence, and underwent several reconstructions over the 14th and 15th centuries.

In 1640, the fortress was besieged for the last time and was subsequently abandoned. It is now in the care of Historic Scotland and remains a popular tourist attraction.

Kidwelly Castle, Wales

Kidwelly Castle is a Norman castle overlooking the River Gwendraeth in Carmarthenshire, Wales. Created as a defence against the Welsh, the castle fell to the Welsh several times in the 12th century. It started out as a wooden structure but was later rebuilt in stone

In 1403, its strength was put to the test during the rebellion of Owain Glyn Dŵr. The town of Kidwelly fell to the attackers but the castle held out. The National Museum of Wales notes that the old town never recovered from the attack and in the centuries that followed, the castle's fortunes also declined

Kidwelly Castle is a Norman castle overlooking the River Gwendraeth in Carmarthenshire, Wales. Created as a defence against the Welsh, the castle fell to the Welsh several times in the 12th century. It started out as a wooden structure but was later rebuilt in stone.

In 1403, its strength was put to the test during the rebellion of Owain Glyn Dŵr. The town of Kidwelly fell to the attackers but the castle held out.

The National Museum of Wales notes that the old town never recovered from the attack and in the centuries that followed, the castle's fortunes also declined and, in 1609, it was described as 'greately [sic] decayed'.

====== 1010 ========

A BREW WITH A VIEW: ON THE SLOPES OF A LUSH MALAWIAN TEA ESTATE

'You have expensive taste,' says my host Custom, when I chose my favourite brew. I've tried 18 of the black, white, green, oolong and fusion blends produced on the balmy, highaltitude slopes here at Satemwa - the leading tea estate in Malawi, southeastern Africa.

The hand-made Bvumbwe is my favourite - and, Custom tells me, Satemwa's priciest at £10 a 50g tin. The Earl Grey comes in second, while a peachy hibiscus rounds out the top three.

This comparison of cuppas takes place inside Satemwa's prettily dilapidated white-walled plant. A cheery video on a tiny TV explains how teas are produced on the estate and Custom fills in the gaps - 'all teas contain some caffeine,' he says, 'even green'. About 90 per cent of Satemwa's teas end up in UK mugs and you can buy it at Waitrose.

Time for a cuppa: Tea is picked on the verdant Satemwa tea estate in Malawi

I'm staying on the estate at Huntingdon House, a colonial-style manse with smart furniture and four-poster beds. You can take a one-hour walking tour of Satemwa's hillsides, which I do.

My guide, Lamek, fills me in on the history. It was a Briton, Maclean Kay, who founded the estate in 1923, and the Kay family remains in charge today. He then shows me gum-tree glades. Their wood is burnt to help dry the tea.

So, how is it that with around 10,000 tons of it going to Britain each year, I've never heard of Malawian tea? 'Companies, such as PG Tips or Twinings, which buy from here, use their own branding and mix our tea with others,' says Lamek.

Colonial style: Satemwa was founded in 1923 and Huntingdon House replicates this style

Take your pick: Satemwa produces black, white, oolong, green and fusion blends

We move on, gulping at lush vistas towards Mount Mulanje, spotting a fish eagle scanning Satemwa's lake and passing groups of waving tea-pickers.

Just an hour from Blantyre's international airport, Huntingdon is the perfect tea break while visiting Lake Malawi and the country's rejuvenated safari parks, Liwonde and Majete.

It's a lovely breather after a few days on the move. On my patio, a waiter approaches. Would I like something to drink? Oh yes, a pot of Bvumbwe, please.

====== 1011 ========

AIRLINE JOON LAUNCHES COSY LIE-FLAT BEDS IN ECONOMY CLASS (BUT THEY'RE ONLY FOR CHILDREN)

An airline has introduced cosy lie-flat seats in economy - but they are only for children.

They have been launched by French carrier Joon and cost £18 per person.

The crew transform the seats into beds by using the headrests to fill the space between the rows, then placing a mattress over the top - and voila.

French carrier Joon has launched seats that can be transformed into a bed. Pictured right is a crew member converting the child's seat using a headrest

A total of 16 of the 'Cosy Joon' seats are available on each long-haul flight operated by an Airbus A340

What's more, the seats in this configuration can even be used as a play area.

A total of 16 of the 'Cosy Joon' seats are available on each long-haul flight operated by an Airbus A340.

They are situated in the four middle seats of rows 33 to 36 on the aircraft and give children a surface area of 105x76cm.

Seat belt extensions can also be provided in case passengers need to buckle up mid-flight.

Eligible families can book the special seats up to 55 hours before departure for 20 euros (£18) per child.

Eligible families can book the special seats up to 55 hours before departure for 20 euros (£18) per child

Seat belt extensions can be provided in case passengers need to buckle up mid-flight

However, Joon, which is owned by Air France, is not the only airline to offer lie-flat beds in economy.

In 2011, Air New Zealand launched its Skycouch, which allows a row of three economy seats to be converted into a flat surface.

Children used to be required to be seated on a guardian's lap when the seat belt sign was on.

But now thanks to a new harness and belt designed for infants, they can rest without interruption.

====== 1012 ========

NATIONAL VIDEOGAME MUSEUM IN SHEFFIELD READY TO OPEN ITS DOORS

The UK's only permanent videogame museum opens this Saturday in Sheffield.

The National Videogame Museum (NVM) hosts scores of playable consoles and arcade machines, with classics such as Space Invaders and Pacman available for visitors to geek out on.

What's more, you can leave your change at home because, as the museum proudly states, you pay once and play all day.

Button bashers: The National Videogame Museum, pictured, hosts scores of playable consoles and arcade machines, with classics such as Space Invaders and Pacman available for guests to geek out on

NVM promises innovative exhibitions of studios, their games and information on how they're made, as well as cultural festivals, clubs for kids and parents, and a 'host of events'.

The exhibitions, it says, will 'reach back to the industry's birth and forward to games still in development'.

It added: 'Following an acclaimed run in Nottingham as the National Videogame Arcade, the new museum will build on a pedigree of strong review scores, consecutive TripAdvisor awards and 50,000 visitors a year.'

NVM promises innovative exhibitions of studios, their games and information on how they're made, as well as cultural festivals, clubs for kids and parents, and a 'host of events'

'We've always tried to do more than just put out games for people to play', said Iain Simons, Culture Director of the BGI, which runs the NVM.

'In our dynamic new space, we're bringing videogame creators into the Museum to meet their players, showing visitors what games mean and responding to our community's requests and ideas for new exhibits.

'Following the success of previous exhibitions featuring Football Manager, Dizzy and Monument Valley, the Museum is working with games companies to create new, more ambitious shows.

'We're delighted to launch a test lab with Boneloaf's Gang Beasts and we're talking to publishers and developers about showcasing their work to our broad audience.'

Kath Bidwell, founder of State of Play Games, said: 'I'm really excited about the launch of the National Videogame Museum at its brand new home at the heart of Sheffield city centre.

'The games industry is fantastically creative and culturally significant and now we have a great place to celebrate and embrace that.'

NVM Patron and BGI Chair, Ian Livingstone CBE, said: 'The NVM is the games industry's own museum, celebrating our games, our studios and our sector's achievements over 40 years.

'I invite anyone who cares about the cultural life of video games to join leaders from across the industry and support this amazing project with content, evangelism and funding to help expand the programme in the years to come.'

Entry is £8.50 for children and £10.50 for adults if booked online. Under 5's go free.

====== 1013 ========

PASSENGERS VOICE FURY OVER FINES CAUSED BY RYANAIR´S...

Furious passengers have blasted Ryanair for slapping them with £55 fines for not checking-in online - despite the airline's website crashing for hours.

Travellers were left fuming when they could not access the budget airline's site last night.

They were unable to book flights and complained that they had been handed late penalties for not checking-in in advance.

One user @TotallydubbedHD said he was handed a bill for an extra £110 for late check-ins on two £46 return flights.

Ryanair has come under fire for charging passengers for not checking-in online when customers claim its website crashed

The YouTube technology reviewer and blogger tweeted at about 5.20pm that the firm's customer service refused to acknowledge the website was down.

He added: 'Was charged £55/pp (on a @Ryanair flight that cost £46/pp return).

'Customer service, both online and on the phone, refused to acknowledge the website being down and/or having the ability to check in online.'

Travellers took to social media to say they were unable to book flights and complained that they had been handed late penalties for not checking-in in advance

One user @TotallydubbedHD said he was handed a bill for an extra £110 for late check-ins on two £46 return flights. Pictured: Passengers wait to check in at Barcelona airport during a strike by pilots on August 10

Other users questioned whether Ryanair would charge people the fine even though its website and app were not working.

@dorianlj10 said: '@Ryanair Any chance of you sorting out your website and app? Surely you can't be charging a check in fee tomorrow!'

But some users said they would not be paying any fines. @RyanRolph_Tryka said: '@Ryanair great work, £55 fee for not checking in online… website crashes, app down and no way to check-in… safe to say i WILL NOT be paying upon check-in tomorrow if you try and charge me for it!!'

The budget airline said that at about 9pm that its website was working normally, following a 'brief' server issue.

A spokesman added: 'The website is working normally. There was a brief server issue earlier this evening which was quickly resolved.'

====== 1014 ========

FORMER SURVEYOR GUY WILLIAMS SPENDS £15K CONVERTING A WRECKED HORSE BOX INTO A PLUSH 'LOG CABIN VAN'

An ex-surveyor who was sick of the rat race has spent £15,000 converting a former horse box into a plush 'log cabin van' to live in.

And now Guy Williams, 39, is travelling the world inside the vehicle, spending less than the cost of buying a London parking space.

The converted horse box boasts beautiful upholstery, stunning Douglas fir woodwork and a panoramic window next to a cosy dinner table.

Former surveyor Guy Williams has converted a wrecked horse box into a stunning mobile home. Pictured is the living and dining area, which boasts beautiful upholstery, stunning Douglas fir woodwork and a panoramic window

Mr Williams is now living in the van and is travelling around Europe. Pictured is the kitchen, which has a full sized cooker and a spacious fridge

Mr Williams has spent a total of £15,000 converting the horse box into a home. He undertook the project after becoming disaffected with his former career

Incredibly the stunning mobile home also has all mod cons - with an indoor cinema, full-size cooker, shower, spacious fridge and a fully-upholstered sofa.

Mr Williams hit the road after becoming disaffected with a 10-year career in surveying before he moved into hotel management.

After a pay-out from his last job he bought and converted the van in just a year and is now travelling across Europe with his six-month-old cockapoo puppy, Ethel.

Mr Williams, who is currently in Portugal, said: 'Basically I was sick of it.

'I used to be a charted surveyor in Bristol and I quit that because I didn't want to be in a nine-to-five everyday until I was 70.

'I looked around me and all the people there were rotting behind their desks.

Mr Williams used a pay-out from a previous job to buy the vehicle and carry out the transformation. Pictured is the van when Mr Williams bought it

It took Mr Williams around a year to carry out the complete transformation of the van and convert it into a place to live

'I left and I started living in my other van and rented out my flat in Bristol and I was earning more money doing that than I was surveying.'

He added: 'After doing that for a while I wanted to do something a bit bigger and I ended up buying this horse box from Holland and driving it back.

'I kitted it out with the intention of living in it. I did it over a year but I reckon I could've done it in just two months.

'We were going for a log-cabin style and we were inspired by the Alps - it is basically a log cabin in a van.

'It is more kitted out than a lot of flats, it has everything I need.

Mr Williams said: 'Back in the day people would call you a crusty if you live in the back of a van and people would look down their noses at you, but now it is cool to live in a van'

The van is kitted out in a log cabin style with Mr Williams saying he was inspired by the Alps during the conversion

Mr Williams with his cockapoo, Ethel, who is accompanying him on his travels. When his trip is over, the intrepid explorer plans to refurbish vans into homes after his unusual abode sparked interest in the UK

'This is a house on wheels and it cost just £15,000 and you can park up anywhere.

'You can't even put a deposit down for that.'

After finishing building the van earlier this year Mr Williams set off in early September - with plans afoot to head to Morocco and finish up by celebrating his birthday in the Alps.

When his trip is over, the intrepid explorer plans to refurbish vans into homes after his unusual abode sparked interest in the UK.

Several conversions have been lined up and he will take them on after returning in the spring.

He added: 'I'm not doing the conversions to make loads of money I'm doing them because I enjoy it.

After finishing building the van earlier this year Mr Williams set off in early September. He is currently in Portugal and he plans to travel to Morocco

Mr Williams says he is able to park up anywhere and all he needs is fuel and food. Bills aren't something he needs to worry about

'Back in the day people would call you a crusty if you live in the back of a van and people would look down their noses at you, but now it is cool to live in a van.

'It is not mainstream, but it is not to rebel - it is free living and you are off grid.

'All you need is your fuel and cost of the food, there is no worries of paying bills or a red letter.

'Van life is so cheap and you have the bonus of being able to go anywhere you want to go and you have everything you need in a box.'

====== 1015 ========

IS THIS THE WORLD'S GASSIEST VOLCANO? ICELANDIC GLACIER CREATES MORE METHANE THAN 136,000 COWS

Methane is one of the most potent greenhouse gases and scientists have found the chemical is being created on a monumental scale by an Icelandic glacier.

Sólheimajökull glacier flows from the active, ice-covered volcano Katla and released up to 41 tonnes of methane every day during during the summer.

This is equivalent to the production of more than 136,000 cows - another offender for methane emissions.

Katla creates the perfect environment for methane-producing microbes to thrive and is also top-five in the world for overall production of CO2.

Scroll down for video

Sólheimajökull glacier flows from the active, ice-covered volcano Katla (pictured)and released up to 41 tonnes of methane every day during during the summer. This is equivalent to the production of more than 136,000 cows - another leader of methane emissions

The Lancaster university-led research, published in the journal Scientific Reports, is the first to show such large-scale release of methane from glaciers.

Study author Dr Peter Wynn, of the Lancaster Environment Centre, said: 'This is a huge amount of methane lost from the glacial meltwater stream into the atmosphere.

'Methane has a global warming potential 28 times that of carbon dioxide.

'It is therefore important that we know about different sources of methane being released to the atmosphere and how they might change in the future.

'There has been a lot of speculation about whether or not glaciers can release methane.

'The beds of glaciers contain the perfect cocktail of conditions for methane production - microbes, low oxygen, organic matter and water - along with an impermeable cap of ice on the surface trapping the methane beneath.

The study comes out of PhD research carried out by Dr Rebecca Burns when she was at Lancaster University.

Researchers took water samples from the edge of the melt water lake in front of the Sólheimajökull glacier and measured the methane concentrations.

These were compared with methane levels in nearby sediments and other rivers, to make sure that the methane wasn't being released from the surrounding landscape.

Dr Wynn said: 'The highest concentrations were found at the point where the river emerges from underneath the glacier and enters the lake.

'This demonstrates the methane must be sourced from beneath the glacier.'

Using a mass spectrometer, which identifies the unique 'fingerprint' of the chemical, the researchers discovered the methane is coming from microbiological activity at the bed of the glacier.

Researchers took water samples from the edge of the melt water lake in front of the Sólheimajökull glacier and measured the methane concentrations. Study author Dr Peter Wynn (pictured), said: 'This is a huge amount of methane lost from the glacial meltwater stream into the atmosphere'

They also discovered that although the volcano is not directly producing methane it is creating the perfect conditions for methane-producing microbes to thrive.

Normally when methane comes into contact with oxygen it combines to form carbon dioxide but this is different on a glacier.

Meltwaters rich in dissolved oxygen access the bed of the ice mass and convert any methane present into carbon dioxide.

Study co-author Professor Fiona Tweed, an expert in glacier hydrology at Staffordshire University, said: 'Understanding the seasonal evolution of Sólheimajökull's subglacial drainage system and how it interacts with the Katla geothermal area formed part of this work.'

At Sólheimajökull when the meltwater reaches the glacier bed, it comes into contact with gases produced by the Katla volcano.

The study comes out of PhD research carried out by Dr Rebecca Burns (pictured) when she was at Lancaster University. Researchers took water samples from the edge of the melt water lake in front of the Sólheimajökull glacier and measured the methane concentrations

These gases lower the oxygen content of the water, meaning some of the methane produced by the microbes can be dissolved into the water and transported out of the glacier without being converted to CO2.

Study co-author Dr Hugh Tuffen, a volcanologist at Lancaster University, said: 'The heat from Katla volcano may greatly accelerate the generation of microbial methane, so in fact you could see Katla as a giant microbial incubator.

'Scientists have also recently discovered that Katla emits vast amounts of CO2 - it's in the top five globally in terms of CO2 emissions from volcanoes - so Katla is certainly a very interesting, very gassy volcano.'

Dr Burns added: 'Both Iceland and Antarctica have many ice-covered, active volcanoes and geothermal systems.

'The recent International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report highlights that current trajectories indicate global warming is likely to reach 1.5C between 2030 and 2052, with greatest perceived climate sensitivity at higher latitudes.

'If methane produced under these ice caps has a means of escaping as the ice thins, there is the chance we may see short term increases in the release of methane from ice masses into the future.'

====== 1016 ========

JARED KUSHNER & BROTHER JOSH BUY HIP DOWNTOWN NEW YORK HOTEL WITH RECORD NUMBER OF NOISE COMPLAINTS

Jared and Josh Kushner have purchased the Hotel on Rivington in New York's hip Lower East Side

The president's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, and his brother Joshua, are in contract to purchase a hip downtown New York City hotel.

The Kushners pending finalized purchase of the Hotel on Rivington will expand their real estate empire, which already includes other New York properties such as the famous Puck building and several walk up apartment buildings.

The ultra-modern 20 story glass high-rise has a rooftop penthouse among other party spaces.

A representative from Kushner Company told DailyMail.com: 'Kushner Companies is under contract to purchase the Hotel on Rivington.'

They did not elaborate on the amount of the pending sale.

It houses Cafe Medi, a hip Mediterranean spot on the first level. It also holds S'Zen Lounge which is a mixology spot on the second floor.

Additionally there is yet another lounge called Upstairs on Rivington. Finally it has an expansive roof deck called Terrace Suite overlooking the Lower East Side, which likely generated the fair share of complaints.

Lower East Side residents have not been particularly happy with their hotel neighbor, lodging a record number of noise complaints stemming from soirees there with the 7th precinct, according to the New York Post.

The hospitality industry it a new venture for the Kushners, whose previous properties are more of the residential and business ilk like their misguided purchase of 666 Fifth Ave.

They also recently purchased two properties on the Jersey Shore.

'This was Joshua's call,' a source told the Post. 'Jared is busy in Washington.'

The stunning, modern glass hotel, features a pent house among other party spaces

The penthouse has a wrap around terrace, perfect for purveying the bustling scene below

Stunning views: You can look out on the streets below, or bathe with a view of the East River

The 20-story high-rise hotel looks down on older tenement style buildings in Lower East Side

Plush party spaces are strewn throughout the Hotel on Rivington, which may have contributed to the notorious noise complaints from residents. Pictured is Upstairs on Rivington

The stunning glass building has received a record number of noise complaints from local residents to the 7th Precinct (pictured, the penthouse)

The cocktail lounge, S Zen, is one of several nightlife/ party destinations in the hotel

Jared has his hands full working in Washington as his father-in-laws' adviser. Joshua, who married supermodel Karlie Kloss (both right in October) has taken the reigns of the real-estate business

Joshua has stepped more into the role of real-estate since his brother Jared became a presidential adviser two-years-ago.

Both Joshua and Jared are Harvard graduates.

Joshua founded Thrive Capital which is a private equity and venture capital firm with a focus on media and internet investments.

Additionally, Joshua founded Oscar Health, a health insurance startup currently valued at $3billion.

For the Hotel on Rivington, which opened in 2005, to be a successful competitor in the area it will need to be renovated to compete with newer hotel properties.

====== 1017 ========

NORWAY'S HURTIGRUTEN CONVERTING ITS FLEET TO RUN ON ROTTEN FISH

The Nordic region's most high-profile cruise fleet operator is refitting its ships to make them less polluting, and plans to use a byproduct of rotten fish to help power their new, leaner engines.

Norway's Hurtigruten, best known for the ships that ferry tourists along the country's fjords and coastline and up into the Arctic, is investing 7 billion crowns (£642 million, $826 million) over three years to adapt its 17-strong fleet.

Six of its older vessels will be retrofitted to run on a combination of liquefied natural gas (LNG), electric batteries and liquefied bio gas (LBG).

Hurtigruten is investing 7 billion crowns (£642 million, $826 million) over three years to adapt its 17-strong flee

'We are talking about an energy source (LBG) from organic waste, which would otherwise have gone up in the air. This is waste material from dead fish, from agriculture and forestry,' Hurtigruten CEO Daniel Skjeldam told Reuters in an interview.

'Our main aim is to improve and cut emissions,' he said.

Hurtigruten, also the world's biggest expedition cruise operator to destinations including Antarctica, Svalbard and Greenland, is also ordering three new ships that will run on electricity, with a diesel engine only as back-up.

The shipping sector is facing tougher international regulations, including cuts in CO2 emissions by at least 50 per cent by 2050 compared with 2008 levels, and a ban on fuels with sulphur content above 0.5 per cent from 2020 against 3.5 per cent now.

Hurtigruten's CEO, Daniel Skjeldam, said that crews have seen glaciers retreat and plastic waste on beaches where they land

Hurtigruten wants to be carbon neutral by 2050.

'We definitely have to be there in 2050 as a company and the cruise industry must definitely have to come a long way as well,' said Skjeldam.

Two of the electric battery-powered ships, costing above 150 million euros each, are already under construction while Hurtigruten has a letter of intent for a third.

That will help Hurtigruten market itself as a green cruise company - especially useful given the vulnerable eco-systems its ships sail through.

'The changes in the Arctic over the past 20-30 years are not caused by carbon dioxide emissions in the Arctic, but you can see the effects of the emissions elsewhere in the world first in the Arctic,' Skjeldam said.

'Our crews have seen glaciers retreat and plastic waste on beaches where they land.'

====== 1018 ========

WE HAVE LIFT-OFF! VIRGIN'S ATLANTIC'S CONVERTED PLANE 'COSMIC GIRL' TAKES TO THE SKIES

Virgin Orbit has successfully flown its 'Cosmic Girl' plane with a rocket strapped to the bottom for the first time.

'Cosmic Girl', a converted Boeing 747 aircraft, took to the skies above California with the satellite company's 70-foot-long (21 metres) 'LauncherOne' rocket attached.

The flight marks the first time a 747 has carried a space rocket in its 70-year history, and is a big step for Virgin One as it targets its first space flight in early 2019.

Virgin One, Virgin's satellite company, hopes to use Comic Girl and LauncherOne to carry small craft into Earth's orbit at a fraction of the normal cost.

The satellites will deliver everything from internet access to data for weather prediction systems.

Scroll down for video

Virgin Orbit has successfully flown its 'Cosmic Girl' plane with a rocket strapped to the bottom (left wing in image) for the first time

Virgin Group Founder Richard Branson said: 'Delighted to share that Virgin Orbit’s Cosmic Girl has completed a successful test flight with a rocket tucked under its wing for the first time.

'There are many challenges to overcome ahead, but the excellent data and performance in all aspects of this latest test flight is really encouraging.

'I'm looking forward to our first space shot in early 2019 and multiple trips to orbit in the year ahead.'

Unlike rival rocket firms SpaceX, which is run by tech billionaire Elon Musk, and Blue Origin - overseen by Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos - Virgin launches its rockets via plane.

LauncherOne, which weighs the equivalent of 25 small family cars, has been described by the firm as 'an affordable dedicated ride to orbit for small satellites'.

Virgin One plans to use a converted Virgin Atlantic plane that will fly to 30,000 ft (5.5 miles) with a LauncherOne rocket attached to the underside of one wing.

'Cosmic Girl', a converted Boeing 747 aircraft, took to the skies with the satellite company's 70-foot-long (21 metres) 'LauncherOne' rocket attached

The flight marks the first time a 747 has carried a space rocket in its 70-year history, and is a big step for Virgin One as it targets its first space flight in early 2019

VIRGIN ORBIT LAUNCHERONE SPECS Destination: Earth's lower orbit Speed: 20 times the speed of sound Payload: Small satellites (660lb/300kg) Launch method: Modified Virgin Atlantic aircraft Flights begin: 2021 Weight: 57,000lb (25,800kg)

The 57,000lb (25,800kg) rocket will then engage its thrusters to reach orbit above the planet at 20 times the speed of sound.

Once in orbit LauncherOne will deliver its payload - small craft weighing no more than a Harley Davidson motorcycle - into orbit.

Virgin One has selected Spaceport Cornwall in Newquay as an ideal location to operate one of the first launches of its LauncherOne system.

Satellites delivered by the system will beam everything from high-speed internet to remote regions to weather tracking data that helps scientists tackle climate change.

Virgin One, Virgin's satellite company, hopes to use Comic Girl and LauncherOne to carry small satellites into Earth's orbit at a fraction of the normal cost

LauncherOne (left wing), which weighs the equivalent of 25 small family cars, has been described by the firm as 'an affordable dedicated ride to orbit for small satellites'

Virgin One plans to use a converted Virgin Atlantic plane that will fly to 30,000 ft (5.5 miles) with a LauncherOne rocket attached to the underside of one wing

The company plans to conduct a number of test flights before embarking on commercial launches in 2021 at a cost of £6.6 million ($10 million) per flight.

It reportedly has already secured deals with US the Department of Defence and the Italian satellite manufacturer Sitael, among other contractors.

The company announced it had completed its first taxi test just last week.

The company plans to conduct a number of test flights before embarking on commercial launches in 2021 at a cost of £6.6 million ($10 million) per flight

Once in orbit LauncherOne will deliver its payload - small craft weighing no more than a Harley Davidson motorcycle - into orbit

'Cosmic Girl', a specially modified Boeing 747-400, completed the first ever high-speed taxi while equipped with LauncherOne.

It reached speeds of 110 knots (125mph / 200kph) - fast enough to simulate an aborted takeoff.

The company wrote on Twitter: 'Zoom, zoom, zoom, LauncherOne was on the move again – this time for our very first high-speed taxi test.

'Not only did we ramp all the way up to more than 110 knots, we also used the day as an opportunity to load real flight software onto Launcher One for the first time.'

'Cosmic Girl', a specially modified Boeing 747-400 that carries, completed the first ever high-speed taxi while strapped to LauncherOne last week (pictured)

The rocket has been described by the company as 'an affordable dedicated ride to orbit for small satellites'. It is be nearly 70 feet long and weighs 55,000lbs (25,800 kg) when carrying a full load of fuel and its payload

The completed LauncherOne rocket is loaded onto a custom-built trailer in this image taken at Virgin Orbit's Long Beach, California rocket factory, pictured in July last year

====== 1019 ========

HOLIDAY BONANZA! BLACK FRIDAY DEALS GALORE, HERE'S OUR PICK OF THE BEST BARGAINS

Sharpen those elbows: Black Friday is nearly here and travellers looking to snap up a holiday bargain are in luck.

There are hefty discounts and many companies are keeping the deal window open until Cyber Monday (November 26th) and beyond. Here are some of the best breaks on offer:

HALF PRICE MALDIVES: Holidays has chopped 50 per cent off seven-night breaks for families at the swish Six Senses Laamu resort in the Maldives on stays between April and September next year. On sale from 9am on Friday until 5pm on Monday, holidays now cost £5,895 per family (two adults and two children) including free half-board and free transfers (turquoiseholidays.co.uk, 01494 678 400).

Turquoise: Surf and snorkel at half price at the Six Senses Resort on Laamu, the Maldives

CUT-PRICE CAMPING: A week-long break next May at the beach-side Escale St Gilles campsite in Brittany, staying in a pre-erected tent, has been cut to just £98 (usually priced at up to £567) with Canvas Holidays. Available from Black Friday to Tuesday 27th November, the offer is accommodation only and must be taken before May 24 2019 (canvasholidays.co.uk, 0345 268 0827).

CORNISH MINI-BREAK: Five-star holiday village Retallack Resort, in Cornwall, has snipped 20 per cent off all its 2019 holidays in luxury lodge and apartment accommodation. A four-night break booked between Black Friday and November 30 using offer code BLACKFRIDAY20 now costs £415, down from £519 (ariaresorts.co.uk/retallackresort, 03333 700 555).

SRI LANKA SAVINGS: Treat yourself to Sri Lanka's west coast in December and save 50 per cent on a three bedroom private riverside villa with Fleewinter.

Flee Winter's three bedroom Apsara Villa is close to Bentota Beach on Sri Lanka's west coast

A week's stay before December 15 now costs from £1,050pp (based on four people sharing), including flights, transfers, use of a private chef and a cookery lesson. Book on Black Friday only (fleewinter.com, 020 7112 0019).

SPRING SAIL-AWAY: DFDS has cut prices on mini-cruises from Newcastle to Amsterdam, offering 66 per cent off sailings before March 31, with two nights on board and five hours in Amsterdam.

Available from 8am on Friday until 5pm on Monday, deals start from just £30pp, based on two sharing an ensuite cabin (dfdsseaways.co.uk, 0871 522 9955).

Mini-cruise: Dash around Amsterdam as you stop off in the Dutch capital

TUCK INTO TURKEY: Opening for the first time during winter, the Hilton Dalaman Sarigerme Resort and Spa, on south-west Turkey's sizzling Turquoise Coast, has 15 per cent off holidays booked between Black Friday and November 30.

A one-week all-inclusive stay starts at £542pp, including return flights from London Gatwick (dalaman.hilton.com).

What are you waiting for?

Sizzling! The Hilton Dalaman is open now for the first time during winter

ABU DHABI DEAL: Book by November 30 and save 40 per cent on a stay at the Saadiyat Rotana Resort and Villas in Abu Dhabi.

Best At Travel is offering a five-night holiday in a classic room on a half-board basis from £1,199pp.

Price includes flights with Etihad from Heathrow (Scottish flights also available). Travel between January 10 and March 31, and book between Friday and November 30 (bestattravel.co.uk, 020 3811 5629).

Rooms at the Saadiyat Rotana Resort and Villas in Abu Dhabi are 40 per cent off

FLORIDA'S A STEAL: Theme park specialist Ocean Florida has slashed prices on a week's stay at the three-star Champions World Resort in Kissimmee.

Based on four people sharing a standard room, the price is £319pp including BA flights from Gatwick, departing September 12, 2019. Available at 9am on Friday, (ocean-florida.co.uk, 020 7939 7775).

FESTIVE FRANCE: Hit the French Alps for Yuletide and save £120pp if you book on Black Friday. Ski Beat has weeklong stays at Chalet Bouquetin in Plan Peisey, close to La Plagne, departing December 22.

At £799pp (was £919pp), prices include flights from London and Manchester, transfers, full-board and Christmas dinner (skibeat.co.uk, 01273 855 100).

Save £120pp on stays at Chalet Bouquetin, perched high in the French Alps

LONDON CALLING: See London in a whole new light.

You can ride a penny farthing around Trafalgar Square, sip tea on a classic Routemaster or go behind the scenes of the Old Bailey.

MakeMyDay - a curated collection of urban adventures - is offering 25 per cent off tours and experiences booked from Black Friday to Sunday (makemyday.travel).

New perspective: Get a fresh take on the London experience with Make My Day

AFFORDABLE FJORDS Sail north for a bargain; Celebrity Cruises has a 50 per cent discount for second passengers booking Norway cruises for travel in April 2019.

A weeklong Fjords trip from Southampton on the Celebrity Silhouette now costs £1,110pp based on two people sharing an Ocean View Stateroom.

Book between Friday and Monday (celebritycruises.co.uk, 0800 441 4054).

Sail Norway's spectacular fjords with Celebrity Cruises for half price

FIVE-STAR CITIES: Luxury hotel brand Corinthia Hotels has up to 40 per cent off its properties. Destinations include St Petersburg, Lisbon and Budapest, with a double room at the Corinthia Hotel in the Hungarian capital now costing from £97 a night. Rates are available from Thursday until next Tuesday. Travel before April 30 2019 (corinthia.com/en/black-friday).

RIVER REDUCTIONS: Emerald Waterways is promising guests who book a 2019 European river cruise free drinks for the duration of their sailing, plus big savings on eight-night cruises.

A whirl around the Danube from Budapest to Munich costs £1,495pp, down from £2,245pp. Flights are not included. Book between Black Friday and November 30 (emeraldwaterways.co.uk, 0808 115 6269).

====== 1020 ========

AYANA RESORT AND SPA IN BALI BANS GUESTS FROM USING THEIR PHONES AROUND ONE OF ITS POOLS

A holiday resort has banned guests from using their mobile phones around one of its swimming pools.

The Ayana Resort and Spa in Bali has a strict 'no calls, no texts and no social media' policy around its secluded river pool.

The ban is in place from 9am to 5pm each day with guests instead told to store their devices in nearby lockers to create 'total tranquility'.

The River Pool (pictured) at the Ayana Resort and Spa in Bali, where mobile phones are banned for much of the day

According to the resort's website, the secluded relaxation area is a two-tiered river stone pool close to nearby luxury private villas.

It says: 'The ethos of River Pool is to create a place of tranquility, where our guests can truly relax and be "in the moment".

'So during your time at River Pool (from 09:00-17:00) we promise there will be no calls, no text, no pictures, and no social media – just you, River Pool and this moment!'

A spokesman for the Ayana resort told Lonely Planet News: 'Our intention is to preserve who we are by valuing human connection and me-time.'

To stave off boredom, guests can request old-fashioned board games such as chess and Jenga to play.

But those who are desperate for an Instagram snap of the spectacular pool do have two windows of opportunity.

There are two two-hour windows of opportunity for people wanting to snap an Instagram picture of the eye-catching pool (stock image)

For two hours from the pool opening at 7am until 9am phones are permitted and they are again from 5pm to 7pm.

Last week, it was reported that the Ibis hotel chain in Switzerland was offering guests the chance to hire an 'Instagram sitter'.

The sitter post photos, stories and even replies to comments on behalf of guests who want a social media detox but want to keep their accounts updated.

====== 1021 ========

GREENHOUSE GASES AFFECT HUMAN LIFE IN 467 DIFFERENT WAYS

Climate change will make us more likely to wet the bed and trigger a plague of ticks, snakes and voles, research claims.

A rise in 'devastating' droughts, floods, wildfires and other weather events caused by global warming will impact nature in a number of bizarre ways, the study shows.

As emissions increase, society faces a much larger threat from climate change than previously thought, the team from University of Hawaii in Manoa said.

Scroll down for video

This map displays the cumulative number of climate hazards by 2100 under business as usual scenario. Areas of blue are at low risk of climate hazards while red shows a higher risk

They analysed thousands of scientific papers on climate change, uncovering 467 different ways that greenhouse gases impact life on Earth.

They include an increase in floods, drought, wildfires and hurricanes that the team projects will hit both rich and poor communities.

Some of the stranger effects included changes to animal behaviour, including ticks, snails and snakes.

Rising temperatures will likely alter the distribution of snails in China, pushing them into regions that were previously too cold for them to inhabit.

Snakes and ticks are also heavily impacted by atmospheric temperatures, and countries with low numbers of the creatures could see a rise by 2100.

In Sweden, an invasion of voles in 2007 was attributed to reduced snow cover after an unusually warm winter - similar plague could become more common.

The team behind the new study said warmer temperatures may also cause people to wet the bed more.

Previous research has shown that pregnant women exposed to heavy flooding gave birth to children who wet the bed more, and were aggressive toward other children.

As emissions increase, society faces a much larger threat from climate change than previously thought, the team from University of Hawaii in Manoa said (stock image)

The increasing exposure to the multitude of climate hazards will impact both rich and poor countries - especially in tropical coastal areas.

In the year 2100, New York is expected to face up to four climate hazards, if greenhouse gas emissions are not mitigated.

Sydney and Los Angeles will face three concurrent climate hazards, Mexico City will face four, and the Atlantic coast of Brazil will face five.

The study was co-authored by 23 scientists, including several who are on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and they have released an interactive map of the threats.

For example by 2095 the UK faces increased warming, rainfall and drought while suffering a deficit in fresh water.

The paper concludes urgently: 'Overall, our analysis shows that ongoing climate change will pose a heightened threat to humanity that will be greatly aggravated if substantial and timely reductions of greenhouse gas emissions are not achieved.'

Lead author Associate Professor Camilo Mora said: 'Greenhouse gas emissions pose a broad threat to humanity by simultaneously intensifying many hazards that have proven harmful in the past.

'Further, we predict that by 2100 the number of hazards occurring concurrently will increase, making it even more difficult for people to cope.

'The collision of cumulative climate hazards is not something on the horizon, it is already here.

'Last year, for instance, Florida recorded extreme drought, record high temperatures, over 100 wildfires, and the strongest ever recorded hurricane in its Panhandle: The category 4 Hurricane Michael.

'Likewise, California is currently experiencing ferocious wild fires and one of the longest droughts, plus extreme heatwaves this past summer.'

Dawn Wright, ESRI Chief Scientist said: 'The study is a compelling review of how climate change is literally redrawing lines on the map, clearly showing the threats that our world faces at every level.

'The maps and data hammer home how much danger humanity truly faces, and the need for immediate action,' said

Co-author Professor Jonathan Patz, from the University of Wisconsin's Global Health Institute said: 'Our health depends on multiple factors, from clean air and water, to safe food and shelter and more.

'So without a real systems approach to climate change impacts, we cannot adequately understand the full risks.

'If we only consider the most direct threats from climate change, for example heatwaves or severe storms, we inevitably will be blindsided by even larger threats that, in combination, can have even broader societal impacts.'

Co-author Assistant Professor Daniele Spirandelli from the University of Hawaii said: 'The evidence of climate change impacting humanity is abundant, loud and clear.

'Clearly, the outstanding question is - how many wake-up calls will it take to wake up?'

====== 1022 ========

INCREDIBLE IMAGES ENTERED INTO NATURE PHOTOGRAPHER OF THE YEAR CONTEST

These are the incredible images submitted to a photo contest that shows nature at its most beautiful, intriguing and heart-melting.

The stunning pictures were all entered into the 2018 Nature Photographer of Year competition, which attracted 10,000 entries from people in over 50 countries.

Scooping the overall top prize in the contest was French photographer Bastien Riu for his magical image of a ladybird taking off from a plant; the photo was also named as the winner of the Other Animals category.

This is the winning image in the Nature Photographer of the Year contest. It shows a ladybird taking off from a flower and was snapped by French photographer Bastien Riu, who called the picture Flight

UK-based photographer Aaron Gekoski won the Man and Nature category with his heartbreaking image (left) of an orangutan that had been forced to wear a bikini in order to entertain people. Meanwhile Kevin Morgans was named runner-up in the Mammals category, with his image of an arctic snow fox, which he named Bad Hair Day (right)

Runner-up in the Man and Nature category was Spanish photographer Murcia Requena Francisco for this shot showing a seahorse surrounded by plastic garbage

Keith Wilson, president of the judging panel, said the winning photograph was a beautiful mix of timing and light.

He explained: 'This photo proves that you don't always have to travel to far and exotic destinations to make a great photo.

'Once you've got an idea and a vision towards nature photography you can also make the perfect photo next to your home.'

As well as naming an overall winner, the competition judges also chose a top entry in every category of the contest.

There were ten categories overall, including Birds, Mammals, Other Animals, Landscape, Black and White, and Plants and Funghi.

The competition also included a Youth category, which highlighted pictures taken by photographers aged between 10 and 17, and was won by Carla Rivas, from Spain, who snapped a stunning image of a polar fox in the evening light.

Chinese photographer Songda Cai was runner-up in the Underwater category for a shot showing a small cephalopod wrapped in plastic, left. Pictured right is a tiger cub having its picture taken by tourists in a national park in India. It was taken by Norwegian photographer Tom Schandy, who was a finalist in the Man and Nature category

In this heartwarming image, a tiny fox cub is hand-fed by a nurse at a veterinary surgery in London after being found abandoned by its mother

Other winning entries included a beautiful image of the inside detail of a sugarbush flower, taken by Bart-Siebelink from the Netherlands, and a crisp snap of three birds gathered together, which was submitted by Hungarian photographer Bence Maté.

There was also a special prize given to British photographer Neil Aldridge, who scooped the Fred Hazelhoff Portfolio Award with a thought-provoking series of images that offered a unique insight into the relationship between foxes and English society.

Another particularly poignant image that highlighted the delicate balance between humans and animals was the winning entry in the Man and Nature category, which was won by UK-based photographer Aaron Gekoski.

His heartbreaking image showed an urang utang that had been dressed up in a bikini for entertainment, while another photo in the category, taken by Spanish photographer Murcia Requena Francisco Javier, captured a seahorse surrounded by garbage that had been dumped in the ocean.

Entries for next year's NPOTY will open in March 2019 with winners announced at the The Nature Talks Photo Festival in November 2019.

British photographer Neil Aldridge won the Fred Hazelhoff Portfolio Award for his series on foxes in England. Pictured is Foxy, who was found abandoned as a cub but is now cared for by a vet who takes him for walks in woodland east of London. The fox lives a semi-wild life

Another of Mr Aldridge's images shows a badly injured male fox, which was found after being hit by car and taken to the Fox Project in Kent for treatment

====== 1023 ========

THE WORLD'S FINEST 15 CHRISTMAS MARKETS

There’s nothing quite like browsing a Christmas market to spark that festive feeling.

But with markets popping up everywhere, it’s hard to know which ones are really worth visiting.

Here we showcase 15 of the most exciting, including three outstanding UK offerings.

LEIPZIG, Germany

Jingle bells: Lepizig hosts one of Germany's oldest Christmas markets, all set against a Gothic backdrop

Why is it special? With bargain flights, Leipzig is gaining a reputation among the young as the new Berlin, thanks to great bierkellers and posh hotels that don’t cost a fortune. The city hosts one of Germany’s oldest Christmas markets, all set against a Gothic backdrop. Music and art are part of the appeal too – Bach lived and worked here, and the Museum of Bildenden Kunste has works by German Expressionists, Munch and Cranach.

Don’t miss: Nativity scenes featuring real animals.

Fun starts: November 27.

Stay: One-way flights cost from just £9 with Ryanair (ryanair.com). The Hotel Furstenhof (marriott.com) has rooms from €145 a night – about £127.

LUCERNE, Switzerland

Why is it special? Lakes, mountains and raclette – Lucerne does Christmas markets in a typically Swiss way. Mount Pilatus, reached by cogwheel railway, makes for a great side trip.

Don’t miss: A department store transformed into a giant advent calendar, with a new window opening each day.

Fun starts: November 29.

Stay: A two-night B&B break at the Hotel Des Alpes, with flights, starts at £440pp with Switzerland Travel Service (stc.co.uk).

STOCKHOLM, Sweden

People flock to the Skansen open-air museum in the run up to Christmas to visit the stalls selling tasteful Scandinavian crafts

Why is it special? The Swedes know how to celebrate Christmas, and stalls are dotted around the city. And at Skansen (a 15-minute tram ride from the centre) you’ll discover stalls selling tasteful Scandinavian crafts.

Don’t miss: Smoked reindeer and lussekatter – saffron buns.

Fun starts: November 22.

Stay: A four-night B&B break starts from £425pp, including flights, with Best Served Scandinavia (best-served.co.uk).

CHICAGO, USA

Christkindlmarket takes over Daley Plaza, with stalls selling strudel and schnitzel. Pictured is a food stall in Chicago

Why is it special? The Midwest city has a strong German heritage and its Christkindlmarket takes over Daley Plaza, with stalls selling strudel and schnitzel.

Don’t miss: Cute heart-shaped souvenir mugs with ‘Ich liebe Christkindlmarket’ given away with any hot drink.

Fun starts: November 16.

Stay: A three-night break starts at £359pp with flights and room-only accommodation with Thomas Cook (thomascook.com).

SALZBURG, Austria

Austrian allure: The main square in Salzburg, pictured above, with its snow-topped chalets selling festive treats

Why is it special? The city is seriously beautiful and, thanks to its proximity to ski slopes, it’s likely to have snow to enhance its charm. Tempering the sentimentality, Salzburg’s other speciality is Krampus parades, harking back to a diabolical figure who looked for bad children to punish.

Don’t miss: Mozart was born here and his status means there are festive choirs at every turn.

Fun starts: November 22.

Stay: A two-night break starts at £218pp, including flights and two nights at the Markus Sittikus hotel with British Airways (ba.com).

ANTWERP, Belgium

Antwerp has Belgium's best Christmas market, according to the Daily Mail's Sarah Turner. Pictured is a stall selling Gluhwein

Why is it special? With stalls snaking around its 16th Century cathedral, Antwerp gets my vote as Belgium’s best Christmas market. Antwerp has a strong fashion background too – head to Nationalestraat for designer outfits.

Don’t miss: The most delicious waffles – you’ll wonder what their secret is.

Fun starts: December 6.

Stay: A three-night break starts at £568pp, including B&B accommodation at the T’Sandt hotel and travel by Eurostar with Kirker (kirkerholidays.com).

FREIBURG, Germany

Decorated: The medieval city of Freiburg has plenty of charm, especially during the festive season

Why is it special? Germany is still the beating heart of Christmas markets, and the Black Forest has scenery and charm aplenty. Rail specialist Ffestiniog Travel offers a break that takes you into the heart of this medieval city.

Don’t miss: Honing your skills in a candlelit craft workshop.

Fun starts: November 22.

Stay: A four-night trip starts from £890pp, including all travel and B&B accommodation, with Ffestiniog Travel (ffestiniogtravel.com).

STRASBOURG, France

Gifts galore: Sarah recommends you try the pizza-like flammekueche while you browse the stalls in Strasbourg

Why is it special? Strasbourg has had a Christmas market since 1570. Place de Marche aux Poissons has most of the food stalls – do try the pizza-like flammekueche.

Don’t miss: Vintage finds in Place Grimmeissen.

Fun starts: November 24.

Stay: A three-night break starts from £275pp, including flights and room-only accommodation at the Maison Rouge Hotel with Easyjet Holidays (easyjet.com/holidays).

AARHUS, Denmark

Why is it special? Heading to Aarhus means you can dig out that moth-eaten Afghan coat and rock your way to a 1970s Christmas. Den Gamle Bay is an open-air museum themed around different historical periods (you can also revisit the 1920s and 1880s), while at the Tivoli Friheden you’ll discover some tasteful fairground rides and sculptural braziers.

Don’t miss: Buying the traditional Danish Madam Bla coffee pot and homemade schnapps.

Fun starts: November 17.

Stay: Flights with Easyjet cost from £23 one-way (easyjet.com). Rooms at Hotel Scandic The Mayor start at £95 a night, including breakfast (scandichotels.com).

ZAGREB, Croatia

There are annual awards for Christmas markets and Zagreb grabbed first place last year. Pictured is one stall last year selling festive sweet treats

Why is it special? There are annual awards for Christmas markets and Zagreb grabbed first place last year. Croatia’s hipster capital has a large student population and offers festive value. Ban Josip Jelacic Square and European Square are two of the main spots at which to gather and Zrinjevac Park blends local food specialities with live music performances.

Don’t miss: Foodies will love baked strukle – a warm pastry dish with soft cheese.

Fun starts: December 2.

Stay: A two-night break starts from £326pp, including flights and room-only accommodation at the Westin with British Airways (ba.com).

LUXEMBOURG

Why is it special? This tiny country is at the crossroads of Europe, so you can easily make excursions to France and Germany. On an escorted trip starting on November 29, you’ll be able to explore the markets at Place d’Armes and Place de Paris, followed by trips to Trier in Germany with its Roman remains, and Metz in France.

Don’t miss: Street food such as gromperekichelcher – potato cakes.

Fun starts: November 22.

Stay: A four-night break starts from £695pp, including all travel and mixed board accommodation at the Novotel Luxembourg Kirchberg with Great Rail Journeys (greatrail.com).

PALMERMO, Italy

Why is it special? Christmas markets are a more recent addition in Italy but the Sicilian city of Palermo has plenty of Catholic fervour and nativity scenes. The Fiera di Natale runs from mid-November and combines Christmas decorations and food, including torrone and candied fruit. However, if you can restrain yourself until December 16, Piazza Unita d’Italia becomes a showcase for local artists and craft workers.

Don’t miss: Cribs of all shapes and sizes – it’s the thing to buy here.

Fun starts: Today.

Stay: A three-night break starts from £488pp, including flights and B&B accommodation at the Hotel Villa Igiea with Citalia (citalia.com).

====== 1024 ========

THICK-SKINNED ATHLETE WAKEBOARDS ON A GLACIER AROUND THE 'ICEBERG CAPITAL OF THE WORLD'

Skimming over sub-zero waters and giant mounds of ice, this extreme athlete certainly needs thick skin.

Nikita Martyanov, 28, from Russia, journeyed to the remote town of Ilulissat on the west coast of Greenland to tackle the region's largest glacier on a wakeboard.

Goosebump-inducing footage shows the daredevil surfing at high speed across the icy landscape, with him performing jumps and flips as he goes.

Scroll down for video

Nikita Martyanov, 28, from Russia, journeyed to the remote town of Ilulissat on the west coast of Greenland to tackle the region's largest glacier on a wakeboard

Goosebump-inducing footage shows the daredevil surfing at high speed across the icy landscape, with him performing jumps and flips as he goes

Martyanov had to wear a special insulated wetsuit to perform the stunt to protect him from the elements.

He said that he worked with filmmakers from Red Bull and they spent two to three hours filming a day, with temperatures in the water hovering around zero degrees Celsius.

While he said his wetsuit saved him from the cold, it couldn't protect him from 'brutal falls'.

He explained: 'From heights of two to three metres it was really painful. There's a lot of needle ice floating around the icebergs – that's masses of pieces of ice, a bit like a smoothie in consistency.

Martyanov had to wear a special insulated wetsuit to perform the stunt to protect him from the elements

While the sportsman said his wetsuit saved him from the cold, it couldn't protect him from 'brutal falls'

'A couple of times we had a situation where I saw a clear spot for landing, I lined up to do the trick, and as I was taking off it turned out that I was flying straight towards a block of ice. Falls at full speed – that's no fun at all!'

Another problem was the fact that Martyanov's yacht broke two days before he landed into Greenland - nicknamed the 'iceberg capital of the world' - and his itinerary had to be completely rejigged.

While Martyanov said he struggled to navigate the landscape, he makes it look like an easy endeavour on camera.

The camera catches him being tugged along by a rib, with him using just one hand most of the time.

At other points he cruises along alone, using the momentum from the boat to continue speeding solo.

He concluded: 'In projects like this it's always difficult to predict your stunts. I really wanted to do a somersault, I wanted stylish flights, a backside 180 with a good grab, for example.

'Overall, the basic idea for the tricks came down to showing some beautiful wake in difficult conditions.'

While Martyanov said he struggled to navigate the landscape, he makes it look like an easy endeavour on camera

====== 1025 ========

SEAFOOD AND EAT IT! INTREPID DINERS SNAP UP TABLES FOR EUROPE'S FIRST UNDERWATER RESTAURANT

The world's largest underwater restaurant is almost fully-booked until next summer as the 100-foot structure nears completion.

Named 'Under', the eatery will open in the coastal village of Baly in the region of Lindesnes located on the southernmost tip of Norway in spring 2019.

It is Europe's first and the world's largest underwater restaurant, boasting a 36 foot-wide panoramic window looking out into the blue beyond.

Scroll down for video

Called 'Under', the restaurant has been designed by the imaginative Snohetta agency and will be located at the southernmost point of the Norwegian coastline by the village of Baly. Guests will have a view of the seabed through a 36ft window

According to local media, the building sits on the seabed 16 feet below the surface and looks like a modern bunker.

The ambitious structure was constructed on ground level on top of a barge for half a year and is designed to withstand extreme weather conditions.

It was then towed to its location 600 feet away, lowered into the water and attached to a foundation on the seabed.

Revealing what diners can expect, Under's chef Nicolai Ellitsgaard Pedersen explained: 'My team and I work in close cooperation with local farmers, fishermen, hunters and harvesters to provide the freshest ingredients.

The structure, Snohetta says, will 'surface to lie against the craggy shoreline. The structure will become a part of its marine environment, coming to rest directly on the sea bed five meters below the water's surface'

The restaurant was designed by the Snohetta company, based in Oslo and New York City with studios in San Francisco, Innsbruck, Singapore and Stockholm

'In this way, we create flavorful, innovative dishes that reflect our landscape.'

The restaurant was designed by the Snohetta company, based in Oslo and New York City with studios in San Francisco, Innsbruck, Singapore and Stockholm.

Commenting on the novel design, senior architect Rune Grasdal said: 'The first challenge is water pressure as it is 16 feet below the surface, but the biggest problem is the waves.'

There will be three levels covering an area of 5,300 square feet that include a champagne bar and a large dining area.

There will be three levels altogether, with a cloakroom on the first floor, a champagne bar on the next and the restaurant at the bottom, where food rustled up by Danish chef Nicolai Ellitsgaard Pedersen will be enjoyed

The restaurant has been designed to hold between 80 and 100 guests, who will be able to watch the wildlife on the seabed through a window that's 36 feet wide and 13 feet high.

The dining room will mainly serve seafood delicacies sourced from the local area, including mussels, lobster and cod.

However, with 'Under' nearly booked-out until after summer 2019, diners will have to book their table soon.

The restaurant recommends that guests allot three and a half to four hours 'to fully escape into our immersion menu.'

Outside opening hours, parts of the restaurant will be dedicated to marine biology research. Snohetta explains that researchers will come to the building to study, among other things, whether wild fish can be trained with sound signals

Tables, if there are any left, can be booked via https://under.dinesuperb.com/reserve/date.

Outside opening hours, parts of the restaurant will be dedicated to marine biology research.

Snohetta explains that researchers will come to the building to study, among other things, whether wild fish can be trained with sound signals.

The design firm adds: 'Through its architecture, menu and mission of informing the public about the biodiversity of the sea, Under will provide an under-water experience inspiring a sense of awe and delight, activating all the senses – both physical and intellectual.'

====== 1026 ========

THE AMAZING STORY OF LAX TOLD USING RARE VINTAGE PHOTOGRAPHS

America’s civilian air industry in the 1920s was, to all intents and purposes, non-existent.

When Los Angeles Airport (LAX) opened on October 1, 1928, it was just like all the other U.S airports - a field. LAX historian Ethel Pattison described it as ‘a dirt patch with rabbits running around’, which was a good standard for that time. But how times have changed.

Here we tell LAX’s story as it celebrates its 90th anniversary – past, present and future – using fascinating vintage photographs and renderings of what’s in store for users of the hub in the years to come.

The dedication of Mines Field (L.A. International Airport from 1941) in 1928 saw a large crowd treated to formation flying

An aerial view of Mines Field and its surroundings in 1930. The airport's first proper building, Hangar 1, had been opened the year before. The airport had a 2,000ft runway and hangar space for 40 planes

The earliest images show that Ms Pattison’s rabbit patch description was spot on.

Though it was a rabbit patch with a 2,000ft runway and parking for 40 planes.

The oldest image was taken in 1928 – a year after Charles Lindbergh became the first to fly from New York to Paris non-stop, the year Delta ran America’s first ever scheduled air service and a year before the airport’s first proper building, Hangar 1, was erected.

The image shows crowds gathered at the airport, known then as Mines Field, for its dedication as planes buzz overhead. It was still more or less the era of magnificent men in their flying machines.

There was more razzamatazz at the airport in 1936 when it hosted the National Air Races, an event featuring stunt pilots, parachute jumps, airships and the fastest planes of the day going head to head.

The images here of the event show wing-walkers and formation flying, plus lots of dapper hats.

The 1936 National Air Races at Mines Field. The broadcasting of the event took place in the officials stand located in the center of the photograph. In the background is smoke from bombs dropped by military planes displaying wartime maneuvers

Navy Voughts fly in formation at the 1936 National Air Races at Mines Field

Stunt pilots perform on a glider as it is placed on a truck during the 1936 National Air Races at Mines Field

Our series then jumps forward to 1950, with a photograph of an airport barber shop – passengers loved to look good for their flight.

Another photo, taken in 1953, shows how the airport expanded rapidly during this decade. It shows cars and trucks going through the $3,500,000 Sepulveda Boulevard Tunnel on the south side of LAX in a final testing prior to opening.

By this time the airport had become a scheduled airline terminal and renamed Los Angeles Airport – it was Mines Field until 1941 - but catching a plane at it would have been worlds apart from the modern-day experience.

Airport security, for instance, didn’t really exist.

As people would want to look smart before boarding their flight, a barber shop was set up in the airport so they could have a trim before jetting off. This picture was taken in 1950

Cars and trucks go through the $3,500,000 Sepulveda Boulevard Tunnel on the south side of LAX in a final testing prior to it opening. This picture was taken in 1953

International passengers who arrived at LAX had to line up and have their documents checked in the Customs Building. This picture was taken in 1959

Nearly all passengers arrived at the airport by car and as air travel became more popular, huge lines would form at the drop off and pick up areas. This picture was taken in 1959

In general it wasn’t taken seriously until the late 1950s, when bag searches began to be implemented. X-Ray machines and metal detectors weren’t required by law at U.S airports until 1974.

In the early days at LAX passengers would have simply walked straight through the terminal and boarded their planes on the tarmac, their luggage having been loaded into the hold by a baggage handler.

Basic security came courtesy of police officers dotted around the terminal.

Some of the images here were taken in the 1960s and show passengers navigating an airport that had grown enormously.

The main terminal complex was built in 1961 and that heralded an age of duty free shops, moving walkways and escalators.

An aerial view of LAX taken in 1963. The main terminal complex was built in 1961

A vintage image from 1963 showing arriving international passengers having their luggage inspected in the Customs Building at LAX

The 420ft moving sidewalk in the American Airlines terminal in October 1964. It provided an efficient way for passengers to get from the ticket desk to the satellite buildings

Pictured is the United Airlines baggage check-in area at Terminal 7 in 1965

Passengers line up to exchange their money at a Bank of America branch inside a satellite terminal at LAX in 1968, where foreign carriers were based

An underground walkway was built for departing passengers to get from the ticketing area to the gates, and for arriving passengers to get from the gates to the street. This image was taken on June 21, 1963

Passengers make their way to the baggage carousel after arriving on the first United Airlines flight to land at LAX in 1961 (left). Travellers would dress in their finest clothes to fly. The image on the right was also taken in 1961

Inside the passenger transit area of the international satellite terminal at LAX in 1962. Several fliers gather around a change machine

In general airport security wasn’t taken seriously until the late 1950s, when bag searches began to be implemented. X-Ray machines and metal detectors weren’t required by law at U.S airports until 1974. This image was taken in 1963

A Pan Am ticket counter at LAX. This photograph was taken on March 28, 1977

But in common with users of the airport from previous decades, passengers still regarded air travel as a luxury, and dressed for the occasion.

These images show men and women moving through the airport in their Sunday finest.

How times have changed.

The flying experience today is vastly different from yesteryear. LAX now has nine terminals including the Tom Bradley International Terminal

The airport is set to totally transform thanks to a $14billion renovation program. This Image shows what the CTA (Central Terminal Area) when it's finished in 2023 will look like when illuminated at night time

This image shows the future APM (Automated People Mover) that will ease access between the Central Terminal Area from nearby parking areas

Present day LAX has nine terminals – including a Private Suite terminal for VIPs with chauffeur-driven BMWs that take passengers across the tarmac to their aircraft - over 62 dining and shopping venues, an observation deck with 360-degree views and ‘therapy dogs’ that offer emotional happiness and support to nervous fliers.

The airport is, however, set to totally transform once again, thanks to a $14billion renovation program.

In the near future passengers can look forward to a new $1.6billion concourse in the Tom Bradley International Terminal, which will add 12 new aircraft gates and children’s play areas, a driverless electric train – the ‘automated people mover’ - that will ease access between the Central Terminal Area from nearby parking areas and facial recognition check-ins rolled out by more airlines (BA and Lufthansa have already introduced it).

It’s an airport that’s definitely on the up-tiddly-up-up.

For more on Los Angeles visit www.discoverlosangeles.com and its Instagram page .

====== 1027 ========

TOURIST IN HOT AIR BALLOON OVER THE MASAI MARA CAPTURES INCREDIBLE FOOTAGE OF WILDEBEEST

Incredible footage shot from a hot air balloon has captured the amazing sight of a giant herd of wildebeest stampeding across an African savanna.

The clip was filmed by a tourist in Kenya during an early morning flight over the Masai Mara National Reserve in August.

It shows the group of wildebeest, which seems to be made up of thousands of animals, racing across the landscape as the hot air balloon swoops around overhead.

Incredible footage shot from a hot air balloon has captured the amazing sight of a giant herd of wildebeest stampeding across an African savanna

The clip was filmed by a tourist in Kenya during an early morning flight over the Masai Mara National Reserve in August

The group of wildebeest, which seems to be made up of thousands of the animals, race across the landscape as the hot air balloon hovers overhead

Later in the footage, the pilot of the balloon fires up the burner, and the wildebeest take fright.

And as the balloon descends closer to the ground, the creatures change direction and zig-zag.

Wildebeest, also called gnus, belong to the family Bovidae, which includes antelopes, cattle, goats, sheep, and other even-toed horned ungulates.

A wildebeest can grow to eight feet in length and weigh up to 600lbs and typically inhabit the Serengeti plains of southeastern Africa.

As the hot air balloon gets closer to the ground, the wildebeest begin to zig-zag

A wildebeest can grow to eight feet in length and weigh up to 600lbs

Up to 80,000 wildebeest - some weighing up to 43 stone - migrate each year from Tanzania to Kenya

Each year, herds of wildebeest stampede across fast-flowing rivers infested with hungry crocodiles as they migrate.

Up to 80,000 of the creatures - some weighing up to 43 stone - risk death as they dash through the treacherous waters.

The wildebeest migrate from the Serengeti Plains in Tanzania to the greener plains of the Masai Mara in Kenya on a tough two-month long 1,800-mile journey.

====== 1028 ========

VIRGIN HOLIDAYS OPENS TRAVEL AGENT SHOP IN MILTON KEYNES WITH A SPA AND BUSINESS CLASS SEATS

Holidaymakers can book their next trip at a travel agent shop that features a spa, a virtual reality roller coaster and even business class airlines seats to try before they fly.

Virgin Holidays has opened a brand new store in Milton Keynes' shopping mall - called Centre:MK - and it is designed in the style of a luxurious airport lounge.

The firm says the unusual features will offer customers the chance to sample the sights, sounds and tastes of their dream holiday before they book.

Virgin Holidays' new travel agent shop in Milton Keynes, which is designed to resemble a luxurious airport lounge

The store has premium economy and upper class seats so customers can try before they fly

Manager Mark Martin shows customers business class seating at the travel shop

The firm says the unusual features inside the store will offer customers the chance to sample the sights, sounds and tastes of their dream holiday

In the spa, which is already a staple in many Virgin Atlantic clubhouse lounges, customers will be able to enjoy a manicure or hand massage as they peruse their holiday options.

Unique features also include a complimentary bar serving prosecco and a children's play area.

There is also a selection of Virgin Atlantic's upper class and premium economy seats so customers can put their comfort to the test.

The store is the biggest Virgin Holidays has launched to date - spanning 1,700 square feet. It was designed by Your Studio and project managed by Resolution Interiors.

The shop has a spa where customers can enjoy a a manicure or hand massage as they peruse their holiday options

Two store employees enjoy the virtual reality roller coaster. The store also includes a complimentary bar serving bubbles and a children's play area

The store, pictured, is the biggest Virgin Holidays has launched to date - spanning 1,700 square foot

KEY FEATURES OF THE NEW TRAVEL SHOP A spa area, allowing customers to enjoy a manicure as they peruse holiday options. A complimentary bar serving soft drinks, Prosecco and snacks. A childrens’ play area with interactive screens. A selection of Virgin Atlantic’s Upper Class and Premium Economy plane seats to enable customers to try before they fly. A unique virtual reality rollercoaster experience – taking customers to Las Vegas and back, via space. Five kiosks with relaxed seating for families to consult with Virgin Holidays’ expert travel consultants.

Lee Haslett, VP of sales and product at Virgin Holidays, said: 'We've been revolutionising the way our customers book their holidays for several years and our latest v-room in Milton Keynes is the next step on that journey.

'We know that our customers are looking for something extra than just a standard holiday and our v-rooms are the first step on that journey - whether that's the in-store bar, children's play area or roller coaster simulation.

'I'm excited that we're able to bring our v-room concept to Milton Keynes and I can't wait to see what our customers think of our first ever in-house spa.'

While Mark Morton, Milton Keynes store manager, added: 'Whether it's a beach holiday in Antigua, a cultural excursion in Havana, a throw of the dice in Las Vegas or the family holiday of a lifetime in Orlando – we've got a tonne of brilliant long-holiday deals for Milton Keynes residents.

'The entire store concept is relaxed and informal; we want people to feel as if they're chatting to a friend over a glass of Prosecco. If you want to explore holiday options in a welcoming environment you can't go past this world-first concept.'

In total Virgin Holidays now has 13 high street stores across the UK, as well as a number of recently opened concession stores in retail giant Next.

====== 1029 ========

CANDID PHOTOS BY BELGIAN PHOTOGRAPHER PASCAL MANNAERTS REVEAL HOW WATER IS VALUED IN DIFFERENT WAYS

By 2025, the World Health Organisation estimates that half of the globe's population will be living in water-stressed areas because of climate change, population growth and urbanisation.

Belgian photographer Pascal Mannaerts went travelling to capture how this basic resource is treated from country to country and valued in different ways, whether it's considered 'rare and precious, sacred, a political instrument or dividing'.

His imagery shows a woman carrying water in Burkino Faso, where some spend up to four hours a day searching for it, a man drawing water from a well in Tajikistan, one of the most isolated places on earth, and a lone water canister hanging from a pole in the rain-starved Gobi Desert.

In stark contrast a picture taken in Kyrgyzstan shows water frivolously shooting forth from fountains. It's certainly thought-provoking.

Commenting on water scarcity, Mannaerts told MailOnline Travel: 'It is obvious that water has become an increasingly important and serious problem. Some people are starting to really become aware of it, and consider this evidence. Changes and measures must be taken.'

Scroll down to look at Mannaerts' watery visual tale...

Mannaerts said of this photo taken in India: 'Rajasthan merchants water their camels during the annual Pushkar fair. Each year, some 200,000 people gather in Pushkar, at the edge of the Thar desert. The city turns into a whirlwind of colours, sounds and movements'. Water shortage is a major problem in the Thar area as the limited groundwater is pretty much the only source of water. Rainfall is limited to 100 - 500 mm per year. By comparison, the western highlands of Scotland gets up to 4,577 mm

A girl poses in Gorom-Gorom, in the Sahel region of Burkina Faso in west Africa. Mannaerts notes that Sahel is one of the driest and warmest regions in the world. It stretches 2,500 miles across arid shrub-land, south of the Sahara desert and has been subject to low, and highly variable rainfall patterns. On average it gets around 100 – 600mm a year. Less than half the population of the Sahel has access to water and women can spend up to four hours a day looking for safe water

Mannaerts took this image, showing flood waters washing into Kolkata, India, in 2002. Deadly floods are common in some parts of India, particularly during the monsoon season that runs from July to September each year. Despite the influx of water, the city's groundwater levels have plummeted in various parts, with experts worried the poor will be hit by a water famine. It was reported in The Times of India this spring that in one neighbourhood, there were only two taps, with water dispensed twice daily for 40 minutes at a time. This curtailed supply lead to 'chaos and fights every day'

A young boy eagerly slurps water from his hand in this portrait taken in Varanasi, India. The city obtains a total of 270 million litres of water from the river Ganga and wells. Yet every fifth citizen lacks drinking water, as the ground water is polluted due to nitrate and human waste

Two girls giggle as they walk through a fountain in Bishkek, the capital of Kyrgyzstan. Mannaerts notes that the country has no access to the sea - 85 per cent of Kyrgyz's water reserves come from glaciers. However, these reserves are waning due to rapid urbanisation and climate change, which has seen the glaciers shrink by 30 to 35 per cent over the past 30 years

A monk blesses a Wednesday buddha with a small bowl of water at the famed Rangoon Shwedagon Pagoda in Myanmar. In 2014 it was reported that Myanmar had lost 40 days from its annual monsoon over the past 35 years, leading to severe shortages of water both for consumption and agriculture

Hindu worshippers bathe and collect water from the sacred Ganges in Haridwar, India, during a religious festival. The ancient city is in the state of Uttarakhand, where there is a drinking water supply problem in more than 17,000 villages. This is due to due to dried up water sources or failed drinking water projects

A woman named Shahandam sits with a bowl of washing water, ready to start a new day in the rural area of Fars Province, Iran. According to Iran's National Drought Warning and Monitoring Center , the period between September and December 2017 was the country's driest in over 67 years, and about 40 per cent of Iran is undergoing a 'serious drought'

Mannaerts says that collecting water from a well is part of daily life in the Bulunkul region of Tajikistan. He notes that this area forms one of the most unexplored and isolated regions on earth. A 2012 study by the United Nations found that most Tajiks lack access to safe and clean water. Rivers and ditches, which many people rely on for drinking water, are often polluted by agricultural runoff and human sewage

This photo shows the process of leatherworking in the Hazaribagh district of Dhaka. Mannaerts says that in 2013, Hazaribagh was ranked fifth on the list of the most polluted places in the world. Tanneries apparently dump more than 22,000 cubic litres of toxic waste every day into Buriganga, the main river in Dhaka, which can cause skin and respiratory diseases

This water reserve is no doubt a welcome sight for those trekking through the arid 500,000-square-mile Gobi Desert in Mongolia (Gobi means 'waterless place' in Mongolian). A 2014 report from the Asian Development Bank warned that Mongolia, despite its wealth of natural resources, faces severe water scarcity. Hundreds of the country's lakes and rivers have dried up due to rising temperatures (it can reach 45C in the summer months) and low rainfall (some areas here receive less than two inches a year), and there is significant desertification of land especially in the south

Young farm labourers use river water to cultivate a plot of land in Djenné, Mali. The area has been hit by severe drought over the years and there is a critical lack of cleaning drinking water. According to Charity : Water, 37.13 per cent of those living in rural areas lack access to water, while 78.5 per cent lack sanitation

Hindus immerse themselves in basins filled with colourful waters during the Rang Panchami celebrations in the holy city of Nashik, India. The event attracts thousands of attendees and each ancient swimming pool can hold up to 50,000 litres of water. Nashik has been hit by water shortages over recent years due to failing pipelines and falling rain levels. This spring it was reported that as many as 866 villages in the Nashik area were facing water supply issues

Two girls pay a visit to a well to fill up their water bottles during break time at a school in Bangladesh. The south Asian country has one of the highest population densities in the world, with a population of 160 million living within 57,000 square miles. But of those 160 million people, four million lack safe water and 85 million lack improved sanitation

After prayers in Mumbai, a man stops to cool down and refresh at a drinking fountain. The city faced water problems this year and some suggested supplies should be rationed after holy festivals. It gets its water from several lakes and levels were said to be two million litres down from 2017

A young girl ventures down to a flowing stream to fill up a water jug in the in Langar, Tajikistan. Many families in the country's rural ares spend hours each day trekking to find clean water

A man cracks a smile at the camera as he fills up a bottle at a public fountain in central Shiraz, Iran. The fountain features a portrait of Hazrat Abbas drawing water from the river Euphrates. It is estimated there is some form of drought in 97 per cent of the country

A man feels the force of a gushing waterfall in Arslanbob, Kyrgyzstan. The water resource crisis blights much of Central Asia. In Kyrgyzstan, finding safe drinking water is difficult due to dried up rivers and holes in decaying irrigation networks

====== 1030 ========

THE WRONG SPOT IN MANCHESTER HAS BEEN LABELLED AS THE AREA'S HIGHEST POINT FOR 200 YEARS

A team of amateur surveyors have discovered that the wrong spot in Manchester has been labelled as the area's highest point for over 200 years.

The Temple in Manchester's Heaton Park was believed to be the city's highest point and a monument was erected there in 1800 to mark the spot.

But it turns out the tallest point is actually 550 yards away in a much less picturesque location.

The Temple at Heaton Park, which for years has been said to be Manchester's highest point

The actual highest point is in a wooded area next to a security fence and close to a communication tower (pictured)

Investigators: George Gradwell (far left), John Barnard (centre), and Graham Jackson (far right)

The Temple attracts thousands of tourists a year who are met with spectacular views over the city and the moors beyond when they reach the top, 354ft above sea level.

A sign at the summit declares: 'The Temple stands at the highest point in the City of Manchester.'

But independent surveyors John Barnard and Graham Jackson have carried out detailed analysis using technology similar to a car's Satnav to re-measure the hill.

And they have established that a far less picturesque spot 547 yards from the Temple is actually 8ft 6in higher.

Heaton Park reservoir, pictured above, is one of the views from the new highest point

Revealing: The team of amateur surveyors carried out analysis using technology similar to a car's Satnav to re-measure the hill. Above is another view from the new highest point

The view from the temple area, which attracts thousands of visitors a year

The new peak is in a wooded area next to a security fence and close to a communication tower.

They have notified officials at Manchester City Council of their findings and are urging them to put new signs up pointing out the new peak.

The 600-acre park was bought by the council in 1902 from the Earl of Wilton.

The Temple was designed by James Wyatt in 1800 and is believed to have first been used as an observatory by Sir Thomas Egerton, the first Earl of Wilton.

Mr Barnard and Mr Jackson were called in when George Gradwell, from the Database of British and Irish Hills, noticed an anomaly at Heaton Park when looking at some data submitted by users.

Mr Gradwell said: 'I thought it warranted further investigation.

'I visited Heaton Park but it was not possible to tell visually if this alternative point was higher, since there is no direct line of sight between the two points.

'So I called in my colleagues, Graham and John from G&J Surveys, to carry out an on-the-ground survey.'

The tallest point is actually 550 yards away from the original spot, as shown in the map above

Poor visibility on the day they carried out their survey meant the team could not enjoy the views, but this did not prevent them from collecting data using GNSS (Global Navigation and Satellite System) technology, which accurately measures heights using satellites.

The data they collected showed the Temple was 353ft 4in high, while the other spot in the wood was 361ft 10in.

Mr Barnard said: 'A feature of The Temple is it's claimed to be the highest point in the Manchester Metropolitan district. There is a noticeboard next to the building asserting this.

'No doubt many people have stood within the Temple, admiring the views over Manchester and beyond while at the same time feeling pleased that they are standing on the highest point in the district.

'Our data now shows a new highest point for Manchester has been found. The new summit position, in the wood next to a security fence, is clearly the highest point.

The plaque shows points that can be seen from The Temple in Manchester's Heaton Park

'In some ways it is a pity because the Temple makes a much more impressive structure to crown the highest point and good views of the surrounding area can be obtained from there.

'But the good news is the new summit is only 547 yards away and there is a pleasant walk between the two positions so enthusiasts can take in the views as well as bag the Manchester Metropolitan County Top.

'The Heaton Park manager and the council initially showed interest and were keen to work with us but they have since failed to respond despite us chasing them several times.

'They said they were not planning to make any changes to the access.'

A spokesman for Manchester City Council said: 'The Temple remains the highest and most significant viewing platform in Manchester, while not quite the highest point in Manchester, it is the best place to witness Heaton Park's spectacular elevated views of the city and surrounding area and we will be updating our signs and information to reflect this. '

====== 1031 ========

INFLATABLE TRAVEL ONESIE COULD TRANSFORM YOUR FLYING EXPERIENCE

For some travellers this could be a dream product.

Leisurewear brand Onepiece has rustled up a travel jumpsuit that means you would never have to remember to pack a neck pillow again. That's because it has an inflatable hood, so you'd be wearing it.

But that's not all. It has over 15 features, including a pull-down snooze mask and rear zipper for easy toilet breaks.

Scroll down for video

Snoozefest: The inflatable hood and neck pillow is the first of its kind

The company has already raised over $100,000 via crowdfunding platform Kickstarter

The hood can be zipped over your face, with breathing room around your nose and mouth

Discrete: The zip on the back allows you to use the bathroom without taking the jumpsuit off

The company has already raised over $100,000 (£76,000) via crowdfunding platform Kickstarter to produce the product - more than four times its original goal.

Onepiece, based in East London, believes the Inflatable Travel Jumpsuit will revolutionise long-haul flying.



The inflatable hood and neck pillow provides 360-degree support for the head, preventing neck and back ache, it's claimed, and enabling the wearer to be comfortable in an upright seated position.

It also has detachable chest pockets for important travel documents and over-the-hand folded sleeves.

The onesie can be pre-ordered now and backpackers are being offered early bird access

Innovative: There are more than 15 features, including a rear zipper for easy toilet breaks

The unisex product is made from premium cotton with a soft brushed lining, and comes in sizes XXS - XL.

'This jumpsuit isn’t just a regular outfit, it’s really the equalizer of inequality in travel, as it basically lets everyone travel first class!' said co-founder Thomas Adams.

'Comfort is what drives us, and with Onepiece, you don't need to leave your comfort zone, you can simply wear it on the go.'

Shut-eye: The snooze cap creates complete darkness to help you drift off peacefully

The campaign was fully funded within the first two hours and received over $50,000 in pledges within the first 24 hours of its launch.

The onesie can be pre-ordered now and backpackers are being offered early bird access at a special rate.

Onepiece is a fashion brand worn by celebrities including Bella Hadid, Ariana Grande, Beyoncé, Justin Bieber and Cara Delevigne.

====== 1032 ========

THE £30MILLION JAMES BOND-STYLE SUPERYACHT THAT'S MODELLED ON A 'STEALTH' BOMBER

It is the perfect superyacht for a reclusive James Bond-style villain looking to stay off the radar.

This £30million craft has been modelled on a military 'stealth bomber' and boasts impressive anti-detection properties.

Called Stealth ARV (Anti-Radar Vessel), the yacht has been designed with specially formed surfaces to bounce signals away from radar antenna trying to detect its presence.

The Stealth Anti Radar Vessel Yacht that costs £30million and boasts impressive anti-detection properties

The yacht has a master bedroom suite that stretches the entire nine-metre width of the craft. The yacht can accommodate up to eight guests and 10 crew

The incredible concept was the brainchild of superyacht designer Peter Bolke. Pictured is another of the bedrooms

By creating almost perfectly flat sides, which are angled in a particular way, the designer says it will be able to reduce the boat's radar signature by minimising returning signals.

This is the same technique used by some specialist military warships and the impressive stealth fighter jet - the F-117 Nighthawk - created by aerospace and defence company Lockheed Martin.

However, be warned - the 150-foot super yacht won't completely disappear.

The most advanced military equipment would still pick it up, but its sleek gunship look is, nevertheless, ideal for billionaires looking to keep their heads down.

The stunning vessel can hold eight guests and 10 crew members with a master suite that stretches the entire nine-metre width of the craft.

The yacht, which is 150 metres long, has an outside deck area and is described as being ideal for billionaires looking to keep their heads down

By creating almost perfectly flat sides, which are angled in a particular way, the designer says it will be able to reduce the boat's radar signature by minimising returning signals

Yacht designer Peter Bolke, from Southampton, who has been designing vessels for more than three decades

And with twin 1,200 horsepower engines, the 500-tonne vessel can cruise at a speed of 16 knots.

The yacht also has a hidden garage that holds a six-metre rib tender, for more subtle excursions.

The incredible concept was the brainchild of super yacht designer Peter Bolke, who said it would be 'perfect for James Bond villains' who like to 'travel off-grid'.

The 57-year-old from Southampton, who has been designing superyachts for more than three decades, said: 'Project Stealth ARV is the product of many years of design and development on other projects.

'With the luxury of a blank sheet - the opportunity was there to build in some new features that would aid efficiency of build while still creating a true superyacht in terms of quality finish and minimalist elegance.

'The stealth craft uses faceted surface forms to reduce the radar signature by minimising the chances of returning radar signals.

'The aggressive lines and minimalist look has quite a broad appeal. I think the stand-out factor will be pretty high in any marine port setting.

'The visual association with hi-tech military equipment also gives the look of a stealth bomber.

'The Stealth ARV may well appeal to a particularly rarefied group of the super-rich who look for secluded anchorages and like to travel off-grid most of the time.

'It's perfect for your James Bond villains, hosting a glamorous and extravagant evening reception aboard, and then skulking off into the night, in ARV mode of course to rendezvous with a nuclear submarine.'

====== 1033 ========

EX-BLUE PETER PRESENTER JANET ELLIS RECALLS HER HOLIDAYS OF A LIFETIME

Continuing our series featuring the holiday adventures of famous people, this week former Blue Peter presenter Janet Ellis, 63, recalls her lifetime of adventures…

First holiday I remember

I visited the New Forest with my cousins when I was six. We stayed in a hotel with a riding school attached so we all got on horses and walked in a circle for the afternoon. It wasn’t particularly adventurous but it was really good fun.

Mother's pride: Janet (far left) in the 1990s with children Jack, Martha and Sophie (far right) – now pop star Sophie Ellis-Bextor

My first trip abroad

We moved to Germany when I was four because my father was in the Army. From there our first holiday was to Copenhagen and I vaguely remember seeing the statue of The Little Mermaid.

First school trip

To Stratford-upon-Avon to see Judi Dench play Viola in Twelfth Night when I was 12. It was unbelievable.

I’d already decided I was going to be an actress at that point, but seeing Judi being funny in Shakespeare was a total revelation. Shakespeare tends to be handed to you as precious and that you mustn’t mess around with it. But Judi was just hysterically funny playing this girl dressed as a boy.

My honeymoon

My first [with TV and film producer Robin Bextor] was to the Norfolk Broads and the second [with John Leach] was to Bali.

My daughter Sophie came with us because she was only eight and we felt it wouldn’t have been the same without her. But we did leave our son Jack, who was then just a baby, with my mother-in-law. I hadn’t been there before and haven’t been back, but it was a proper slice of the exotic.

My best holiday

Japan is a country that John and I love. We’ve had four holidays there now. Last year we enjoyed a five-day walk in the Kiso valley, which lies between Kyoto and Tokyo. It was self-guided so it was just the two of us walking during the day following a little guidebook, then sleeping in minshuku and ryokan inns at night. We’ve also spent lots of time in Italy – we adore Sicily.

Cream of the crop: Japan's Kiso Valley (above) lies between Kyoto and Tokyo

My worst break

We haven’t had holidays that have been totally ruined. We’ve taken risks because we used to go to Cornwall a lot when the kids were small, and I’ve sat on beaches in light drizzle insisting that it’s going to brighten up in a minute…

Essential holiday item

Books – I pack masses. For a week away I’d take six, because nothing gets in the way of reading. Some of the books I’ve read on holidays have made the biggest impression on me.

Dream destination

I’ve had a couple of wonderful holidays in California so I’d love to go back. But just knowing a holiday is coming up is good enough for me. That feeling of knowing at some point in the next couple of weeks I’m going to be doing something different away from home is such a treat.

I get really excited on the journey – I love the travelling and I even like plane food. So my dream destination is always the next one.

====== 1034 ========

WHAT NEW YORK'S CENTRAL PARK COULD HAVE LOOKED LIKE IF A REJECTED DESIGN FROM 1858 HAD BEEN APPROVED

Formal topiary gardens and roads named after U.S. Presidents - this is what Central Park could have looked like.

Newly-released renderings imagine what Manhattan's famous park would look like today if an 1858 design by John Rink - the original copy of which is now housed at the New York Historical Society - had been given the go ahead.

In 1857, a competition was launched to find someone to design Central Park but Rink's proposal was rejected in favour of a more naturally styled concept by Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux.

Swapping wild woodlands for formal topiary gardens and roads named after U.S. presidents, this is what Central Park could have looked like if an original design wasn't rejected

Newly-released renderings imagine what Manhattan's famous park would look like today based on an 1858 design by John Rink, which is now housed at the New York Historical Society

The museum acquired the colourful and highly ornamented Rink design (seen here) in 2008, after it had been found rolled up in an attic. Alan Balicki, the chief conservator at the New York Historical Society, oversaw the drawing's conservation, which included surface cleaning and flattening

But if Rink had been picked by the judging panel, Central Park would look completely different to how it does today.

The new renderings, commissioned by Budget Direct Travel Insurance, show how the 843-acre plot of land follows a symmetrical format.

Rink, who worked as a park engineer, wanted to create a manicured landscape, looking to grand European classical gardens for inspiration.

Instead of the natural-styled park Olmsted and Vaux envisioned, Rink yearned for carefully clipped borders and shaped shrubbery.

In 1857, a competition was launched to find someone to design Central Park but Rink's proposal (seen above) was rejected in favour of a more naturally styled concept by Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux

A view of what Central Park looks like today, modelled after the winning design by Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux

Rink, who worked as a park engineer, wanted to create a manicured landscape, looking to European classical garden design for inspiration

In total, there were 33 designs entered into the Central Park design contest, with each entrant vying for a $2,000 (£1,560) cash price (almost $60,000/£47,000 in today's money).

The New York Historical Society says that only five of the original designs have survived.

The museum acquired the colourful and highly ornamented Rink design in 2008, after it had been found rolled up in an attic.

Alan Balicki, the chief conservator at the New York Historical Society, oversaw the drawing's conservation, which included surface cleaning and flattening.

Rips were also mended and filled with paper or pulp, and stains from water damage reduced. The design, which is dated March 20, 1858, has been on display several times at the museum.

In total, there were 33 designs entered into the Central Park design contest, with each entrant vying for a $2,000 (£1,560) cash price (almost $60,000/£47,000 in today's money

====== 1035 ========

SAN FRANCISCO PHOTOS SHOW HOW THE CITY HAS CHANGED OVER THE DECADES

It’s wobbly screen time for San Francisco.

These fascinating before and after pictures show how the city has changed over the decades.

Some parts have been transformed – such as Haight Street, which in 1948 was home to the Haight Theater. This has now been demolished and modern buildings stand in its place.

In other areas San Francisco’s heritage is remarkably intact – for example China Town in 1910 looks surprisingly similar to today’s version.

Other comparisons presented here include the Flood Building, Lombard Street and California Street.

Scroll down for a fascinating glimpse into the city’s past...

Golden Gate Bridge

San Francisco's Golden Gate Bridge during its construction between 1933 to 1937. The bridge is 1.7 miles long, linking San Francisco on the south with Marin County on the north

The Golden Gate Bridge pictured today. More than two billion vehicles have passed over the bridge since it opened

City Hall

Construction of San Francisco's City Hall in 1913. One of the most famous weddings to take place in the building was that of Marilyn Monroe and Joe DiMaggio in 1954

City Hall pictured today. It has been the used for filming several movies including Dirty Harry and Indiana Jones

Old St Mary's Cathedral

Old St Mary's Cathedral has stood on California Street since 1854. It is pictured here in 1900, six years before a huge earthquake almost destroyed the city

The cathedral pictured in modern day San Francisco. It survived the 1906 earthquake but was severely damaged by a huge fire the day after the disaster. A renovation of the church was completed in 1909

Lombard Street

Lombard Street is famous for its steep hairpin bends. It is pictured in 1922 while being constructed

Today, tourists flock to Lombard Street, which is now festooned with flowers, plants, trees and shrubbery

Flood Building

The Flood Building on Market Street pictured during its construction in 1904. When it opened later that year, it was the tallest building in San Francisco

The Flood Building has had many tenants since it opened including the Southern Pacific Railroad and the US government. Now it houses several stores including Gap and Urban Outfitters

Hyde Street Pier

The Hyde Street Pier, which is home to a half-dozen historic ships and is part of the San Francisco Maritime National Park, pictured in 1975

Today the pier houses more than 500,000 photographs and 2,500 pieces of fine art showcasing the region's rich maritime heritage

China Town

China Town in San Francisco is one of the oldest and most established in the United States. It is pictured left in 1910 and right in the present day

Haight Theater

The Haight Theater, pictured in 1948, standing in the middle of Haight Street in the city. The theater had a large marquee advertising its latest shows

A shot taken from the same spot on Haight Street today shows how the theater has now been demolished and replaced with modern buildings

Sentinel Building

The Sentinel Building, also known as the Columbus Tower, pictured left in 1915. Today, the building, right, is occupied by tenants including Pixar, Skywalker Sounds and Francis Ford Coppola's American Zoetrope studio

Transamerica Building

The Transamerica Building as seen in 1911 in the city's Jackson Square Historic District. It is adjacent to what is now the Transamerica Pyramid, which opened in 1972

Today, the historic Transamerica Building houses the the Church of Scientology of San Francisco. It has restored many of the building's original features

====== 1036 ========

JUMBO JET PILOT CHRISTIAAN VAN HEIJST SHARES INCREDIBLE PICTURES THAT HE'S TAKEN FROM THE COCKPIT

When it comes to flight deck photography, Christiaan van Heijst sets the bar sky high.

Christiaan, 35, has flown all over the world capturing thousands of cities that pass by, shooting stars, the Milky Way, and the Northern Lights.

The 747 cargo pilot always ensures he has his camera on board so he's able to share the amazing natural views he witnesses at 30,000ft and above.

When it comes to flight deck photography, Christiaan van Heijst sets the bar sky high. This image was taken above Iran

Christiaan, 35, has flown all over the world capturing thousands of cities that pass by, shooting stars, the Milky Way, and the Northern Lights. This image was captured half-way across the Atlantic Ocean

Christiaan always ensures he has his camera on board so he's able to share the amazing natural views he witnesses at 30,000ft and above. Here the plane is so high you can even see the curvature of the earth

We've published astonishing pictures that he's taken on MailOnline Travel before – and this latest batch from the Dutch pilot, which were taken over the past eight years, are similarly jaw-dropping.

Christiaan said: 'It is sometimes hard to describe to people what's so special about flying at night when you see the stars, Northern Lights and dim glow of the atmosphere around.

'Or what it feels like to see the cities, countries, oceans and continents glide by below your wings as if we're detached from the planet.

Here Christiaan has captured the Northern Lights above Alberta, Canada, in spectacular style

Christiaan said: 'It is sometimes hard to describe to people what's so special about flying at night when you see the stars, Northern Lights and dim glow of the atmosphere around'

Christiaan says he has always been in awe of how the light and shadows interact so high up in the sky. These are the lights of London, glowing beneath the heavens

Way to glow: The selection of photos here were taken using long exposures

'I think every photo tells its own story and together, like pieces of a bigger puzzle, they show a much broader picture that tells what it is like to fly across the globe at night.

'This selection of photos show a series of long exposure photos from the cockpit and airplane cabin to illustrate the possibilities of long exposure photography in the air.

'The urge to capture those beautiful views started when I had my first job as an airline pilot.

'The mesmerising views at night of the cockpit and all its little lights, the cities that pass by, the countless stars, the Milky Way, shooting stars and sometimes even the Northern Lights was something that just had to be captured by camera.'

Christiaan says he has always been in awe of how the light and shadows interact so high up in the sky.

Christiaan describes the skies he flies through as a playground for his photography

This is a view of the flight deck as Christiaan's 747 heads over Quebec towards the Atlantic Ocean

The flight deck viewed from a bit further back. Most would agree, that's it's one of the world's most spectacular offices

He added: 'Light is behaving in a completely different way compared to what we see on the surface of the earth and this, combined with the unique perspective we pilots have from the cockpit, was just the perfect playground for my photography.

'Another thing that urged me to capture these scenes was the fact that every vista, cloud and landscape is changing constantly and thus will never be seen again.

'Very often I'm just the only person to see that view from that perspective and I simply felt the urge to capture this beauty and share with the world.'

The man behind the lens: Here's Christiaan appearing on the other side of the camera for a change

====== 1037 ========

BATH COUNTRY PETS ISN'T JUST A PET SHOP - IT HAS A BOUTIQUE HOTEL FOR DOGS

Forget cold concrete floors and metal cages, this is how the other half live in the dog world.

Pooches stay in the lap of luxury at this swanky boutique hotel for hounds, with standout features including heated floors, naturally hypoallergenic and anti-microbial sheep’s wool-stuffed beds and a log burner in the lounge. Plus a smattering of chic topiary.

The newly-opened Bath Country Pets hotel in Wiltshire prides itself on offering five-star accommodation for its four-legged guests, for £46 a night.

The newly-opened Bath Country Pets boutique dog hotel in Wiltshire says it offers five-star accommodation for its four-legged guests, with rates coming in at £46 a night

Along with underfloor heating and dreamy beds, other perks include carbon filtered drinking water and 'cosy and comfortable rooms with no bars or wire cages'.

What's more, classical music is played and the air is infused with lavender oil to aid relaxation.

And if dog owners feel their pooch is a little pudgy, a personalised weight loss programme can be arranged.

Otherwise the standard food plan includes two meals a day with 'various chews and treats given in between'.

An exterior shot of the main accommodation block with some chic topiary on display

Perks include carbon filtered drinking water and 'cosy and comfortable rooms with no bars or wire cages'. To help the pooches get a good night's sleep, the hotel plays classical music and infuses the air with lavender oil

On the activity front, the hotel states that the dogs will 'enjoy a true return to nature with lots of exercise', and 'games to challenge their nose and brain'.

The dog hotel, which has an American barn-style exterior, sits on four acres of land and there are regular excursions to surrounding points of interest, from country houses to rambling woods.

The Bath Country Pets hotel was set up by Neil and Emma Edwards.

They said of their luxury kennel concept: 'Our life is very much about our kids and our animals and creating a positive and healthy environment for them to flourish in.

'We have always included dogs as part of our family and they have been the inspiration for us to launch our new business.

'We felt that there was a clear gap in the market for families, like us who have canine pets, but who would not feel comfortable leaving them in a traditional kennel environment. Also, there was a new and exclusive niche that we felt we could fill. So, we set about creating the perfect place for them to stay.'

They added: 'We believe in making each day for our guests different, rewarding and fun. Our attention to detail and comprehensive service is already becoming renowned.'

If dog owners feel their pooch is a little pudgy, a personalised weight loss programme can be arranged. Otherwise the standard food plan includes two meals a day with 'various chews and treats given in between'

====== 1038 ========

FORMER MILITARY LOOKOUT POINT PERCHED ON THE ROCK OF GIBRALTAR IS TRANSFORMED INTO 'SKYWALK'

A former military lookout point perched on top of the Rock of Gibraltar has been transformed into a breathtaking 'Skywalk' with a glass bottom.

Built on the foundations of an anti-aircraft base used during the Second World War, the incredible viewing point is not for the feint heart and stands taller than the London's shard and three times higher than the Statue of liberty.

Located in the Upper Rock Nature Reserve, it lies nestled on top of rugged and rocky landscape and juts out above the sea showing an a stunning view of the land below.

A former military lookout point perched on top of the Rock of Gibraltar has been transformed into a breathtaking 'Skywalk' with a glass bottom

It perches on the Upper Rock Nature Reserve, it lies nestled on top of rugged and rocky landscape and juts out above the sea showing an an incredible view the land below

Commissioned by HM Government of Gibraltar the lookout shows incredible views on a clear and sunny day

When standing on the platform, two continents and three countries - including Spain and Morrocco - can be viewed across the sparkling waters of the Strait of Gibraltar, where the Atlantic meets the Mediterranean.

And the it offers one of the best spots in the world to catch a spectacular sunset as the sun goes down.

The lookout acted as British fortress during the war, and served as vital asset by virtually controlling all naval traffic in and out of the Mediterranean Sea from the Atlantic Ocean.

And the incredible viewing point even pays homage to its military roots with an old octagonal gun platform being made into a seating area for visitors.

It offers panoramic views of three countries and two continents can be viewed across the Strait of Gibraltar, where the Atlantic ocean meets the Mediterranean sea

The incredible viewing point even pays homage to its military roots with an old octagonal gun platform being made into a seating area for visitors

The lookout acted as British fortress during the war, and served as vital asset by virtually controlling all naval traffic in and out of the Mediterranean Sea from the Atlantic Ocean

Commissioned by HM Government of Gibraltar, the Skywalk was opened in March by actor Mark Hamill who played Luke Skywalker in the Starwars film series.

The 66-year-old American actor unveiled the Star Wars-inspired platform with the help of stormtroopers in a ribbon-cutting ceremony.

Weighing more than 330 tons and made up of 8,072 square feet of glass panels, the stunning structure is secured to the rugged rock - and can hold up to five Asian elephants or 11 Range Rovers.

Gibraltar's famous macaques, the only population of monkeys in Europe, can be seen clambering across the viewing point.

Actor Mark Hamill who played Luke Skywalker in the Starwars film series unveiled the platform with the help of stormtroopers in a ribbon-cutting ceremony

Breathtaking 360 degree views can be seen across the platform which weighs more than 330 tons and is made up of 8,072 square feet of glass panels

====== 1039 ========

GREAT BRITISH BOLTHOLES: A REVIEW OF THE VILLAGE PUB, COTSWOLDS

At the rear of The Village Pub a woman with three labradors drinks white wine while chatting to Katie, the pub’s cheerful assistant manager. A Land Rover crunches into the gravel car park and a couple in tweeds amble into the main bar after exchanging hellos with the labrador-owner.

Sunlight filters through trees above ivy-covered walls and beds of roses and lavender. What a peaceful, friendly place.

The picture-perfect Village Pub is indeed within a village: sleepy Barnsley, a few miles east of Cirencester in Gloucestershire.

Country charm: Outside The Village Pub in the sleepy village of Barnsley

It is part of the upmarket Calcot Collection of hotels, which have three further properties in the Cotswolds, plus one in Northumberland.

Just across the street is a sister hotel: Barnsley House, a sumptuous five-star country house hotel with exquisite gardens and a spa (models Kate Moss and Naomi Campbell have stayed).

While rooms there set you back at least £300 B&B, the six rooms at The Village Pub are more modest. Earlier this year they were refreshed by interior designer Nicky Farquhar, so you can hide away in a stylish crash pad in the Cotswolds for a relative song.

Hideaway: The building dates back to the 17th century. Pictured is the large garden

On my visit there’s the murmur of chatter inside the low-beamed, flagstone bar (the building is 17th Century). The bar itself is copper-topped. Scrabble and other board games are stacked on a shelf. There are cosy snugs and tucked-away corners galore. A photo of a winning local cricket team sits above one fireplace, a wooden stag’s head gazes down above another. It’s a popular little local – now with smart rooms which have their own entrance.

The USP: Barnsley is excellent walker territory. From the pub try a two-mile loop southwards through rolling countryside past a disused quarry to the edge of Lowe Field Farm before turning west for a short distance and returning north (the pub provides maps). Other walks are available; the longest is five miles. The Corinium Museum in ‘the capital of the Cotswolds’ – Cirencester – is also worth a visit to check out Roman archaeological finds (coriniummuseum.org) and furniture-lovers will discover more recent treasures in the many antiques shops.

Food mood: Wash down a delicious meal at Village Pub with a glass of wine

The rooms: Described as ‘country comfy’, the rooms feature mustard-coloured walls, leek-green sofas, retro Bakelite telephones, espresso machines, ‘yummy boxes’ stocked with Cotswolds lager and champagne, and REN toiletries.

The food: Duck with red cabbage, pork belly, and fish and chips with mushy peas are bestsellers, while the twice-baked cheddar soufflé is a showstopper. Three courses from about £29.

====== 1040 ========

SINGAPORE'S CHANGI AIRPORT IS TRANSFORMED INTO A HARRY POTTER WONDERLAND

Forget shopping for duty-free or staring at the departure boards.

At Singapore's Changi Airport passengers can dress up like a wizard, learn how to cast spells and even practice their Quidditch skills.

Parts of the hub have been transformed for the festive season into a 'Wizarding World Holiday', inspired by J K Rowling's Harry Potter and Fantastic Beasts worlds.

A young passenger is enthralled by the snow at a wintry Hogsmeade Village-inspired set-up in the Terminal 3 departure hall at Singapore's Changi Airport

Passengers wanting to practise their Quidditch skills can try their hand at the Quaffle Toss, ride on a broomstick and throw Quaffle balls into a series of hoops to score points

In the Terminal 2 departure hall there is a replica Whomping Willow tree, which is found in the grounds at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry

There are four life-sized set-ups spread across three terminals, built in conjunction with Warner Bros, which made the Harry Potter and Fantastic Beasts movies.

They are Hogsmeade Village, Diagon Alley and the Whomping Willow found on the grounds at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, all from the Harry Potter films, and Newt Scamander’s Menagerie, as seen in new film Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald.

The Hogsmeade Village replica can be found in the Terminal 3 departure hall. It features snowy rooftops set against the backdrop of Hogwarts castle.

There are also replicas of the town's most well-known shops like Zonko’s Joke Shop, Madam Puddifoot’s Tea Shop, Owl Post and sweet shop Honeydukes.

One of the cute Niffler creatures takes centre stage at the Terminal 1 Transit set-up inspired by Newt Scamander’s Menagerie from the Fantastic Beasts series

Visitors to the airport can try to stack coins at the Niffler Challenge Game

This set also features a recreation of the iconic Hogwarts Express.

Also situated in Terminal 3 is an enchanting interpretation of the famous Diagon Alley, where Hogwarts students purchase essential school supplies like school uniforms and wands in the films.

Here, passengers can take a stroll down the famed street and admire the exquisite shop facades including Madam Malkin’s Robes for all Occasions, joke shop Weasleys’ Wizard Wheezes, and Quality Quidditch Supplies.

In a shop inspired by Madam Malkin’s Robes for All Occasions store, passengers can capture GIF photos of themselves dressed as Hogwarts pupils

Visitors can also dress up as their favourite wizard at Madam Malkin’s Robes for all Occasions-inspired shop and capture a GIF photo in front of a magical mirror.

Meanwhile, those who want to practise their Quidditch skills can try their hand at the Quaffle Toss, ride on a broomstick and throw Quaffle balls into a series of hoops to score points.

And at another activity station, visitors can play with an adorable giant Niffler - as seen in Fantastic Beasts - and try and stack shiny coins in its lap.

In Terminal 3 fans can get up close with a recreation of the iconic Hogwarts Express

The Whomping Willow, an extremely rare replica of the magical tree, has been set up in the Terminal 2 departure hall, while Newt Scamander’s Menagerie can be found in Terminal 1. This features a selection of magical creatures.

The Harry Potter and Fantastic Beasts exhibits are open everyday from 10am to 10pm until mid-February.

Changi Airport has been named as the best in the world for six years running by Skytrax’s World Airport Awards.

It boasts the world's tallest airport slide, a free 24-hour cinema, rooftop swimming pool and a butterfly park.

====== 1041 ========

NASHVILLE IS THE CITY THAT TOPS THE COUNTRY MUSIC CHARTS

I’ve been a country music fan most of my life and Nashville is not only the top live-music city in the world, but also the keeper of country music’s rich history.

So with British Airways now flying direct to the city from London in just nine hours, I thought I’d be crazy not to book a holiday there.

I checked into the charming Germantown Inn, a short Uber ride from downtown. I started my music trail at the Ryman Auditorium, the ‘Mother Church of country music’ – to see blues act the Tedeschi Truck Band. I then took a short walk to Robert’s Western World, rated the best of the Lower Broadway ‘honky-tonk’ bars, to sip Belle Meade sour mash whiskey and watch excellent country bands.

Hit parade: Nashville’s Broadway is packed with concert venues

A couple of blocks away is Printer’s Alley, where I dropped in to Alley Taps to see singer Tosha Hill perform. A few doors along at Skull’s Rainbow Room, Laura Mayo was breathing hot jazz standards.

The cab driver who drove me back to Germantown Inn told me she’d travelled to Nashville a year ago from her home in Pennsylvania to make it in the music industry.

As I got out, she handed me a CD. She’s called Brittany Opperman. I popped it on and was amazed. Even cabbies sing like angels in this city.

I then checked into Noelle, an Art Deco hotel just a short walk to the main music centres. From there I headed out to the Country Music Hall of Fame. Nearby stand the Johnny Cash and Patsy Cline museums, while just up the road is the RCA Studio B, where the likes of Elvis recorded. For a mobile history lesson, take a Songbird Tours bus ride – which comes with two songwriters/singers on board who play for you in pauses between historic sites.

The bus trundles along Music Row – where musicians knock out hits in neat little mid-20th Century houses – on its way to residential Brentwood. We got to see the bungalow where Hank Williams’s alcoholic widow Audrey died and, years later, Tammy Wynette passed away in mysterious circumstances. There’s always a bit of Southern Gothic tragedy in country music.

Finally, I checked into the chic 21C Museum Hotel. Its in-house restaurant, Gray & Dudley, is worth the stay alone. Over the past decade, the city’s culinary landscape has transformed. New restaurants such as Husk Nashville and Café Roze give New York and LA’s finest a run for their money.

Talent: Tosha Hill singing at Alley Taps in Nashville

You may still want to tip your hat to the Old South as well, and dine at Hattie B’s Hot Chicken or Arnold’s Country Kitchen. At Arnold’s, I sat alongside truckers, lawyers and country music stars. It’s an institution – all red leather banquettes and walls crammed with pictures of country-star customers.

It struck me that, for all Nashville’s nouveau hipness, it is its history that really makes it one of my favourite cities. A scorching concert by The Time Jumpers, a collection of Nashville’s top session musicians, later that night just confirmed it.

====== 1042 ========

A FESTIVE GETAWAY TO SANTA CLAUS VILLAGE IN LAPLAND, FINLAND

My four-year-old son was ready to meet Santa Claus. I wasn’t sure if Santa was prepared for the ordeal of meeting him.

Nicholas is going through a hooligan phase. So I felt nervous when, after arriving at Santa Claus Village in Finland, we were ushered into the great man’s presence. There he sat in all his glory, red of coat and round of belly, his ruddy cheeks gleaming above curly white hair.

‘And what would you like for Christmas, young man?’ he asked my hyperactive son.

Snow, snow, thick, thick snow: The central plaza of Santa Claus Village

Nicholas’s eyes narrowed. ‘I don’t know,’ he replied.

Santa twinkled. He had met such children before.

‘Do you like surprises?’ he asked slyly.

‘No,’ said Nicholas.

‘Ho, ho, ho,’ chuckled Santa, losing confidence. ‘Do you like toy cars?’

‘No.’

‘Lego?’

‘No.’

Mortified, I murmured the truth into a whiskery ear.

‘He wants a gun.’ And we hurried on.

The history of Santa Claus Village goes back to 1950, when former U.S. first lady Eleanor Roosevelt visited Lapland, the frosty, forested region that makes up the northern third of Finland. She wanted to meet Santa, so locals knocked up a Santa hut. The attraction grew. Four decades later, the Village opened, offering — 365 days per year, including Christmas Day — what Lapps say is the world’s best Santa experience.

After our meeting with Santa, Nicholas and I visited his Main Post Office and sent postcards to our loved ones, stamped with the Arctic Circle postmark.

Naughty or nice? The big man meets Nicholas and dad, Thomas (above)

In the Santa Playground, we descended the Santa slide, swung from the Santa swings and hung from the Santa monkey bars. Then we took a sleigh ride, drawn through a lovely copse of birch and pine by Santa Claus’s very own reindeer.

Even more than Santa, reindeer are the cultural symbol of Lapland. There are more of them in the region than humans.

The biggest town, Rovaniemi, which was levelled by bombing in World War II, was rebuilt on a plan that resembles the head of a reindeer.

Tasty reindeer stews and soups are served in most restaurants, and gift shops sell almost anything you can imagine made out of antlers. At first, I felt sorry for all these reindeer getting the chop to make chandeliers.

Then I learned the truth: no deer dies in the name of antler ornaments. The males drop their antlers naturally after each mating season. I bought half a dozen antler bottle-openers and thought to myself: that’s Christmas sorted.

In the afternoon, Nicholas and I visited Santa’s (frankly overpriced) Secret Forest, where two elves — young Lappish men sporting prosthetic noses — taught us to do mildly interesting things with gingerbread.

Their elfin patter was pretty tedious, but they had a trick up their sleeves. In their workshop, after showing off the ‘flying reindeer radar’ and ‘kind-ometer’, they slid back a panel to reveal … Santa Claus again!

Then we climbed back on our Santa Line bus to return to our hotel in Rovaniemi. The name? Hotel Santa Claus, of course.

Magical: Visitors can take a reindeer sleigh ride through the snow

The bottom line is: there could hardly be a more exciting holiday for a four-year-old than a trip to Lapland’s Santa Claus Village.

It’s simple to get to, now that easyJet has launched bi-weekly direct flights from London Gatwick to Rovaniemi, which is just a few kilometres south of the Village. There are also lots of non-Santa-related things to do.

In the Arktikum museum, you’ll learn about the Northern Lights and the indigenous Sami people of the north, who have been oppressed by rapacious southerners.

The Ranua Wildlife Park has two lumbering polar bears, a grey wolf, a vicious wolverine, and owls. At the Bearhill Husky Farm, you can enjoy a helter-skelter sleigh ride, dragged by Arctic Huskies.

On our last morning, Nicholas and I fitted in a Finnish experience. We crossed the bridge and took a dip in the icy River Kemijoki. It’s a local tradition, good for your heart and treating a range of ailments. Nicholas said he wanted to do it. I warned him, but he insisted.

So I carried him down the wooden steps and dunked him in the freezing water. The next few minutes were the only time he was silent on the entire trip.

====== 1043 ========

THE STUNNING WINNERS OF THE PANORAMIC PHOTOGRAPHY AWARDS REVEALED

These sweeping photos certainly command attention.

The stunning shots have been revealed as the winners of an international panoramic photography contest.

Both professional and amateur photographers were invited to enter their best landscape shots for the Epson International Pano Awards 2018 in a bid to win more than $50,000 (£38,000) in cash.

And this year's competition received 4,937 entries from 1,251 photographers in 74 countries.

The overall winner of the contest was Veselin Atanasov from Bulgaria, who impressed with his shot of the sun rising over a tree-lined hill in Tuscany. We were also very taken with the shot of lightning lashing the Grand Canyon, a diver in a Brazilian abyss and a haunting shot of fog drifting around a U.S swamp.

Scroll down to sweep your eyes over some of the incredible panoramic pictures that caught the judges' eyes...

Both professional and amateur photographers were invited to enter their best landscape shots for the Epson International Pano Awards 2018 in a bid to win more than $50,000 (£38,000) in cash. The winner of the Epson 'digital art' prize was Colin Sillerud from the U.S, with this shot of lightning sparking over the Grand Canyon. The digital art award is aimed at 'rewarding excellence in modern digital post-processing'

This panorama, captured by Colin Sillerud, shows a rainbow arching over the red rock of the Grand Canyon. It was entered into the amateur landscape category

Kath Salier took this incredible shot of a humpback whale plunging vertically into the deep with a diver alongside it in the waters off Tonga (left). It was entered into the amateur landscape category. On the right is Prajit Ravindran's vertical panorama of the Milky Way dazzling above Utah. He entered it into the amateur landscape category

Marcio Cabral took this sweeping underwater shot while diving in the Anhumas Abyss in Bonito, Brazil. The spot is popular with tourists thanks to its crystal-clear waters and fascinating limestone formations

This haunting shot of fog rising around a ghostly swathe of trees was taken by David Thompson in the southern swamps of the U.S. It was entered into the open landscape category

Miles Morgan trekked to the foothills of Mount Whitney in California to get this stormy image. It is the tallest peak in the U.S. state, topping out at ‎14,505 feet. It was entered into the open landscape category

A view of Mount Ngauruhoe, which is New Zealand's newest and historically most active volcano. The sun-kissed shot was taken by Dylan Toh. It was entered into the open landscape category

Dylan Toh found the perfect perch for a panoramic shot of Lake Oberon in Tasmania. It was entered into the open landscape category

The overall winner of the 2018 open competition was Veselin Atanasov from Bulgaria. He said of his winning shot, seen above: 'I shot this picture during one spring morning in 2017 in Tuscany. I remember that I had a 70-200mm lens attached to my camera, and the scene in front of me required a wide-angle lens. The sun was quickly rising upward and I decided not to miss this moment while replacing a lens, so I shot the scene through the panorama of several frames from my hand without a tripod'

Kelvin Yuen titled this eye-catching photo, taken in Taiwan, 'wave of cloud'. He entered it into the amateur category and scored first place

The runner-up in the 2018 amateur competition was Peter Li from the UK with his shot of the blue whale skeleton at the Natural History Museum (left). Meanwhile, Mads Peter Iversen came second in the digital art category with his shot of the Northern Lights swirling over Lofoten in Norway (right)

Carsten Bachmeyer's panoramic shot captures the stunning scenery around the Dolomites mountain range in north-eastern Italy. It was entered into the open landscape category

This icy image was taken by Alessandro Cantarelli as he explored Iceland's frozen landscapes. It was entered into the amateur landscape category

Shafts of light shine down into a cavern in Indonesia in this striking image taken by Gunarto Gunarto. It was entered into the amateur landscape category

This dramatic shot of lightning crashing down over the Merewether Baths in Australia was captured by Brian Bornstein. It was entered into the 'built environment' category

Albert Dros decided to capture colourful tulips carpeting fields in the Netherlands

Javier De La Torre captured two locals fixing fishing nets while travelling through Vietnam. It was entered into the 'built environment' category

Stefan Thalerfrom from Austria took this image of the snaking Maloja Pass mountain pass running through the Swiss Alps. It was entered into the 'built environment' category

Jun Wang took this shot of the glistening blue waters of Peyto Lake in Banff National Park, Canada, while venturing outdoors in the darkness. It was entered in the amateur landscape category

Yiu Kai Shinoda captured a thin shroud of fog hovering over the Macau Peninsula, with skyscrapers peeping through. It came second in the 'built environment' category

This image, showing a horse rider in a mountain range in Indonesia, was taken by Ongko Sumarno. It was entered into the amateur landscape category

The overall winner of the 2018 amateur competition was Nathaniel Merz from South Korea. He said of his winning shot, seen above: 'Ever since first exploring the mountains here in Korea I have fallen in love with the bonsai-like pine trees clinging to the rocky peaks. This particular tree was always one of my favourites for its tall, regal shape and the fact that it stood alone right on the edge of a cliff. While it is beautiful year round, it looks particularly beautiful covered in just the right amount of frost and snow like I was luckily able to capture [one] morning'

Anastasia Woolmington from Australia took this photo while travelling in Japan. She said of the shot: 'Meoto Iwa or Wedded Rocks is a pair of sacred rocks in the sea off Futami in Japan. The two rocks are joined together in matrimony by a sacred Shinto straw rope called a shimenawa. The larger of the two rocks represents a husband, while the smaller rock represents the wife. Many couples from Japan travel there to ask for blessing for their marriage'

Isabella Tabacchi took this starry night shot as she ventured out around the Monte Rosa hut in Zermatt, Switzerland

This atmospheric shot was taken by Sandra Herber during a storm washing over Oklahoma in the U.S. It came third in the amateur landscape category

====== 1044 ========

VINTAGE FIRE TRUCK HAS BEEN TRANSFORMED INTO A QUIRKY HOLIDAY RENTAL COMPLETE WITH A FIREMAN'S POLE

A vintage fire truck has been transformed into a quirky holiday rental where guests can climb a ladder, use a hose and even slide down a fireman's pole.

The Red Rescue Retreat is nestled in the heart of the Lake District close to Keswick offering stays for £402 per week.

The truck can sleep up to four people - two adults and two children - meaning that it costs £14 per person per night.

The Red Rescue Retreat in the heart of the Lake District, close to Keswick, which is a former fire truck that has been converted into a holiday rental. It's not clear why there's a picture of a burning house next to the decking

The property can sleep up to four people - two adults and two children. Pictured is the master bedroom on the upper floor

Guests reach the master bedroom by climbing up a ladder, right, and can slide back to the ground down a fireman's pole, left

The unusual property has two bedrooms, and guests reach the master bedroom by heading up the ladder where they'll find a king-size bed, TV, dressing table and even a fireman's pole that they can use to slide back down to the ground.

Meanwhile a second bedroom on the ground floor has two fire engine bedsteads and firefighter-themed curtains for children.

The ground floor also has a lounge with a smart TV while the dining area has panoramic views across the Blecathra Fells and the kitchen is equipped with an oven, hob and a fridge.

Inside the master bedroom, there is a large double bed as well as a smart TV and a dressing table

In the second bedroom on the ground floor there are two beds with fire engine bed steads and fire engine-themed curtains for children

The lounge in the converted fire truck has a comfortable sofa as well as a ladder that takes guests up to the master bedroom

There is also a sauna room and a shower room, which leads to a decked patio with a seating area.

At the back of the truck there is a small area where firefighter costumes and hoses are available for children to play with.

The listing says: 'This fantastic unique fire truck is nested in a spectacular location, in an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty, within the splendid Lake District National Park.

The fully equipped kitchen has an oven, hob, wine cooler and fridge. To the right, a door leads to a sauna

A stay at the property works out at £14 per person per night. Pictured is the modern shower and toilet room inside the truck

'Entering the fire truck from the lovely decked patio area, into the fantastic open-plan unique accommodation with an array of quirky features including the fireman’s pole and replica tied ceiling cables.

'Outside there is a decked patio, with seating area.

'It is perfect for al fresco dining and lazy evening star gazing, across the spectacular Blencathra fells.'

====== 1045 ========

WINNERS OF THE BRITISH WILDLIFE PHOTOGRAPHY AWARDS 2018 REVEALED

A ghostly shot of the flight paths of Daubenton's bats, which took months to capture, has scooped the top prize in this year's British Wildlife Photography Awards.

A portrait of a badger, a great skua eating a puffin, a magpie on railings in the snow, a close-up of a nursery web spider waiting among petals for her prey, and grey seals being released were category winners in the contest.

Paul Colley, from Swindon, Wiltshire, won the overall prize of £5,000 for his image, Contrails At Dawn, of Daubenton's bats at Coate Water Country Park.

This haunting image of bats swooping over a still pool of water in Coate Water Country Park, Wiltshire, was named the overall winner in the contest. Paul Colley, who took the photo, used an infrared camera and specialised lighting system to capture the mammals in the darkness. It took him 14 months to get this shot

This amazing picture of a mountain hare cowering in the cold in the Cairngorms National Park in the Scottish Highlands won Andrew Parkinson the gong in the habitat category

Capturing the flight of the high-speed mammals in the dark required an infrared camera and lighting system that was 14 months in development, and as the bats are a protected species they were photographed following advice from conservation experts.

Mr Colley said: 'No other image in my portfolio had been so clearly conceived and yet so difficult to achieve.

'My artistic intent was to capture this extraordinary little bat's speed of movement and hunting flight path, but the journey to success was littered with disappointing failures.'

He said he was supported by fellow photographers in his endeavour, which saw him experience a 'huge gradient of emotion'.

'There were the lows felt during months of long, cold and exhausting dusk-to-dawn sessions, sometimes waist-deep in water and often without getting a single usable image.

'And then the natural highs of those lightbulb moments, when new ideas blossomed, problems were solved and the project inched closer towards the potential to win this exceptional accolade.'

A nursery web spider waits for her prey in this low-lit shot by Andrew McCarthy. The photograph, taken in Devon, came first in the 'hidden Britain' category

Tesni Ward photographed a bright-eyed badger (left) ambling through the Peak District National Park in Derbyshire. The image came top in the 'animal portrait' category. Sunil Gopalan captured a Great Skua feasting on a puffin (right) in the wilds of Fair Isle in Shetland, northern Scotland. The photograph came top in the 'animal behaviour' category

Lucy Farrell, aged nine, captured this incredible close-up shot of a cockchafer bug on a patch of moss in Cumbria. It came first in the under-12 years category

James Roddie took this superb shot of a frosty woodland in the Scottish Highlands. It came first in the 'wild woods' category

A skittish Scottish red squirrel was captured by Neil Mcintyre darting around Rothiemurchus Forest in Scotland. His shot won in the 'British seasons' category

Robert Canis ventured down to Kingsgate Bay in Kent at dawn to take this atmospheric shot of a kelp bed

Prizes for top pictures were awarded in 15 categories, including ones that focus on the coasts, close-up images of the natural world, the same subject through the seasons, video, and a documentary series of photographs.

In the junior categories, Ivan Carter, 17, from Deal in Kent, won for his shot of common tadpoles.

And nine-year-old Lucy Farrell, from Sunderland, Tyne and Wear, scooped top prize for a close-up of a cockchafer beetle.

Ivan Carter, aged 17, was the winner of the 12 to 18 years category with this shot of tadpoles in a pool of water at Walmer Castle in Kent

Ben Watkins won in the 'documentary series' category with photographs that charted the journey of a herd of grey seals being rehabilitated and released into the wild

A lesser black-backed gull soars above stormy waters off the coast of New Haven in East Sussex. Craig Denford, who took the shot, was named the winner of the 'coast and marine' category

A magpie teeters on a fence, surrounded by a blanket of snow. The wintry image, taken by Christopher Swan in Glasgow, came top in the 'urban wildlife' category

Dozens of goose barnacles cling to the rocks at Sanna Bay in Kilchoan, Scotland. The photo, taken by David Bennett, came first in the 'close to nature category'

These images all appear in British Wildlife Photography Awards 9, published by Ammonite Press, RRP £25. The book is available online and from all good bookshops

Naturalist, author and wildlife TV producer Stephen Moss said: 'The extraordinary range of subjects, species and habitats, and the imaginative way they are portrayed, leaves us in no doubt that we in Britain are fortunate to be home to some of the most talented photographers in the world.

'It is also a snapshot of Britain's diverse and beautiful wildlife, at a time when these wild creatures - and the places where they live - are under threat as never before.'

An exhibition of winning and commended entries from the competition will go on tour, starting in London on November 6 at the Mall Galleries, and a book, British Wildlife Photography Awards 9, will feature the best images.

====== 1046 ========

SINGAPORE AIRLINES IS NAMED AS THE BEST CARRIER IN THE WORLD BEATING AIR NEW ZEALAND AND QANTAS

Singapore Airlines has been named as the best carrier in the world for 2019.

The carrier, which currently flies the longest commercial service in the world from Singapore to New York, has received the accolade from AirlineRatings.com - a website that ranks airlines on safety and in-flight experience.

It beats last year's winner, Air New Zealand, to the top spot, while the Australian flag carrier, Qantas, comes third.

Singapore Airlines has been named as the best in the world for 2019 by AirlineRatings.com. It also came top in the first class cabin category, thanks to its stunning suites (pictured)

AirlineRatings.com said Singapore Airlines was simply the 'gold standard' carrier. Pictured is one of its Airbus A380s

THE BEST AIRLINES IN THE WORLD 2019 1. Singapore Airlines 2. Air New Zealand 3. Qantas 4. Qatar Airways 5. Virgin Australia 6. Emirates 7. All Nippon Airways 8. EVA Air 9. Cathay Pacific Airways 10. Japan Airlines Source: AirlineRatings.com

Qatar Airways is named as the fourth best airline followed by Virgin Australia.

There are no UK or US-based carriers in the top 10.

Dubai-based Emirates is in sixth place, followed by All Nippon Airways (seventh), EVA Air (eighth), Cathay Pacific (ninth) and Japan Airlines (10th).

AirlineRatings.com, based in Australia, said it chose Singapore Airlines as its winner because it came out number one in virtually all of the criteria including financial performance, staff and operational safety and that it quite simply is 'gold standard'.

Meanwhile the airline also wins the website's title for having the best first class cabin with Singapore's 'suites' product praised for being the 'equivalent of a small hotel room'.

Qatar Airways is named as having the best business class cabin thanks to its Q-suites, pictured, which are unique in offering double beds at this level. Overall, the airline is fourth

Korea Air scoops the top accolade in the economy cabin category

The best business class award goes to Qatar Airways, thanks to its Q-suites, the first-ever to feature a double bed and it is also named best for catering.

The best premium economy cabin has been won by Air New Zealand while the best economy award goes to Korea Air.

Qantas is named best for both lounges and domestic flights while its subsidiary, Qantas Link, wins regional airline of the year.

The most improved airline is Phillipine Airlines, the best cabin crew, Virgin Australia, best ultra-low-cost carrier is VietJet and Emirates is named best for in-flight entertainment.

Virgin Australia were deemed as having the best cabin crew for 2019 according to AirlineRatings.com

The cocktail bar inside the Qantas lounge at London Heathrow Airport. Qantas has been named as having the best lounges in the AirlineRatings.com awards 2019

The winners in the best low-cost category are Westjet (Americas), AirAsia/AirAsia X (Asia-Pacific) and Wizz (Europe).

Emirates (Middle East), EVA Air (Asia-Pacific), Lufthansa (Europe) and Delta (Americas) are named as the top long-haul carriers.

Endorsed by the International Civil Aviation Organization, AirlineRatings.com rates the safety and in-flight product of 450 airlines using a seven-star rating system.

====== 1047 ========

WANT TO SEE THE LAKE COMO AT ITS TRANQUIL BEST? SET SAIL OUT OF SEASON

Baby, it’s cold outside! But not inside the Tivano, one of the snug boats — or battelli — that ply their way up and down the glorious Lake Como.

Who knew clouds could be so beautiful, I thought to myself as the Tivano made its way from the city of Como to Colico, at the top of the lake, in the shadow of the snow-capped Alps.

During my five days here, I just couldn’t stop taking the boats (around £10 to £15 for an hour or so’s journey).

Serene: The view from Varenna on the eastern shore of Lake Como, where boats offer an ideal mode of transport

I looked and looked at those clouds: some hooked on top of the snowy mountains that ring the northern end of the lake; some trapped in the ravines that lead down to the water’s edge, alongside pure white streams; others hanging in mid-air over the lake, like a trailing white scarf dropped from heaven.

We think of Italy as a summer destination, but Como is, if anything, lovelier in winter. The oaks and beeches on the mountainside turn orange and yellow, while the cypresses remain a rich evergreen.

While you admire the palm and olive trees by the water, the snowline of the mountains creeps down the slopes, but rarely hits the lakeside.

I even swam in the lake earlier this month — chilly, admittedly, but a useful boost to the system after too many glasses of local Lugana wine.

After hours spent chugging up and down the lake in those boats, it turned out that the best view was from the dining room table of the Hotel du Lac in Varenna. My table had an unbeatable view, straight down two of the great channels of the lake, one leading towards Como, the other to Lecco.

I sat and stared from that table for hours on end, eating smoked trout and lavarello, one of the lake’s whitefish.

One day, the sun was so bright I had to half-pull the curtain across my view. On others, the rain came piling down.

It can get very wet in Italy — thus the terrible recent floods, the worst for ten years, in Venice, and the deadly inundation of Sicily.

Charming: The town of Varenna with its pretty multi-coloured houses

But here in Como, the rain has its own safe beauty, moving in great sheets across the water.

The views across the lake are so far-reaching, and the lake so enormous, that you can see the changing weather — rain followed by sun — approaching and shifting direction, minute by minute.

Hotel du Lac is now closed until March, but there are plenty of places that stay open throughout the winter.

For example, Hilton Lake Como, in Como itself, very near the lake, has double rooms from £115.

And the boats run on the lake throughout the winter, too. They are so reliable and frequent (and their employees such a lovely, friendly bunch) that there’s no point in having a car.

Just spend the day hopping between the towns that hug the shore.

Varenna is one of the prettiest. It has two exceptional churches bordering its town square: the 11th-century San Giovanni, a pocket chapel painted with early frescoes, and the grander, towering 14th-century San Giorgio, with a gleaming, black marble floor and 15th-century paintings.

The grandest place of all is Como itself, at the southern end of the lake, well-served by trains from Milan.

The cathedral is a short walk from the station and the boat piers. Its construction began in the late 14th century, just on the turning point between Renaissance and Gothic, and there are charming chunks of both styles.

To get a real feel for the lake, take a boat all the way from Como, at the southern end, to Colico at the northern end.

The slowest boats take two hours and 40 minutes. The quick do it in one hour and 40 minutes.

As you head north, and particularly after Varenna, the boat empties, as do the lakeside towns and the lake itself, a few sailing dinghies apart.

Meanwhile, the snowy mountains and Alpine wilderness get closer and closer.

It is one of the great journeys in the world.

====== 1048 ========

AN INSPECTOR CALLS... A REVIEW OF CORNWALL'S ST TUDY INN

Rain-battered and bewildered from navigating the narrow Cornish lanes, we eventually arrive at the St Tudy Inn, tucked away in a little village of the same name just outside Bodmin.

There are only four rooms, but more are planned as chef Emily Scott continues to transform this enchanting 17th-century pub near the River Camel.

A trim, focused young man is expecting us as we step into the main saloon (Farrow & Ball’s Cornforth White), with tables laid (fresh flowers), open fires, dogs welcome and locals laughing at the bar.

Soothing: One of the bedrooms at St Tudy Inn, which features tongue-and-groove woodwork

Bedrooms are all in the former store room. Laid-back luxury is the theme, with grey hues, tongue-and-groove woodwork and home-made fudge.

‘Look forward to seeing you at dinner,’ says the man, enthusiastically. It’s a Tuesday night in November and almost every table is taken. This is pub grub at its best, with an ever-changing seasonal menu.

Three eightysomethings are having a spirited discussion about fish. ‘Salmon nowadays is bland and ineffective,’ says a man with a booming voice.

‘Like our politicians,’ says his friend.

Cosy: St Tudy Inn is tucked away in a little village of the same name just outside Bodmin

One couple spot our melted Camembert with chilli and rosemary starters and ask if they can have it as a pudding. Of course they can.

No early starts here. Breakfast is between 9am and 10am. You’re given a jug of freshly squeezed orange juice — and as many espressos as you want.

The St Tudy Inn is warming and generous. Anyone scared to death about our country’s future should pack up their troubles and come here for a night.

====== 1049 ========

DISNEY REVEALS THE NAMES OF TWO ATTRACTIONS IN ITS STAR WARS LANDS AND RELEASES NEW TRAILERS

Star Wars fans will soon be able to pilot the Millennium Falcon and face off against the dark side in battle.

Disney has revealed the names of two new major attractions inside its Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge lands that are set to open next year - one will be called Millennium Falcon: Smuggler's Run and the other, Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance.

What's more, it has released two trailers for them, with the one for Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance shot inside the actual attraction.

Scroll down for videos

In a new trailer Disney has revealed two of its major attractions inside its Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge lands

Millennium Falcon: Smuggler's Run, pictured, will allow guests to get behind the controls of the most famous ship in the movie franchise

The two signature attractions of the 'lands' are now under construction and are due to open in Disneyland in California next summer and at Walt Disney World in Florida next autumn.

On the Millennium Falcon: Smuggler's Run, Disney guests are able to go behind the controls of the most famous ship in the movie franchise in one of three unique flight crew roles.

Meanwhile on Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance, guests are put in the middle of an epic battle between the Resistance and the First Order.

The new trailer for this shows Stormtroopers patrolling corridors and the First Order coming under attack from the Resistance.

It has also been announced that composer John Williams, creator of the classic 'Star Wars' themes, is writing new music for the 'Galaxy's Edge' attractions.

Disney has also released a trailer for the Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance ride, which was shot inside the actual attraction

On Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance, guests are put in the middle of an epic battle between the Resistance and the First Order

Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge will feature a street market and food stalls where Star Wars fans can enjoy delicacies such as blue milk. Pictured is another image from the Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance trailer

It was previously revealed that Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge will also feature a street market and food stalls where Star Wars fans can enjoy delicacies such as blue milk.

There will also be a replica Cantina bar run by character Oga Garra.

Walt Disney Imagineering executive Scott Trowbridge, who is overseeing the project, previously said: 'Our intent is to make it feel as if you just walked into one of the movies.

'Bringing to life in the physical world gives us the opportunity to play with a whole bunch of things we've never done before... to really engage all of the senses.

Pictures taken in September show the new Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge land taking shape at Walt Disney World in Florida

The images taken at Lake Buena Vista show spaceships and transmitter masts beginning to take shape alongside rocky landscapes

The ambitious new Star Wars attractions are part of a $2billion (£1.43billion) investment by Disney

'What does that street feel like? What does that animal smell like? What does blue milk taste like?'

The ambitious new attraction is part of a $2billion (£1.43billion) investment by Disney in its theme parks.

Once completed, it will include approximately 10,000 tons of structural steel and 200,000 square feet of hand-carved rock work.

====== 1050 ========

STUNNING IMAGES SHOW THE BREATHTAKINGLY DIVERSE LANDSCAPES OF CHINA

China - it's at once a mystery and yet something so familiar to Westerners.

Its culture - its food, the way its people dress, its ideologies - is known across the world.

But it still remains something of an undiscovered country for many outside its borders.

We're hoping that these stunning images will reveal a bit more about the country and underscore just what a jaw-droppingly diverse place it is.

It's a country with neck-straining skyscrapers, cormorant fishermen, dramatic waterfalls, terrifying glass walkways, Unesco-listed national parks and, for a bonus, the world's biggest city square.

Scroll down to see China in all its glory - and perhaps adjust your bucket list.

The Li River loops around the karst mountains in Guilin. The Chinese regard the scenery in Guilin as among the most beautiful in the world

The Chinese just can't seem to get enough of nerve-shredding walkways. Here's one made out of glass on Tianmen Mountain

A spectacular shot captured from Victoria Peak, the highest part of Hong Kong, showing the skyscrapers below. There are 1,500 buildings in Hong Kong that are classed as skyscrapers, meaning they are taller than 328 feet

Hong Kong is one of the most densely populated areas on earth. This image of its high-rise buildings has a hypnotic quality about it

Wispy clouds hang over a winding road that leads up one of the hills in the stunning Tianmen Mountain National Park. The mountain itself has been named as one of the most scenic in China

The lush green fields of the Longsheng Rice Terrace in Guangxi province. This upland area has been cultivated for rice for over 800 years using a terrace and irrigation system

The Lujiazui district of Shanghai is classed as the city's financial district. It's home to the bizarrely shaped Shanghai World Financial Centre (the second-tallest building in this shot), which has been compared to the shape of a bottle opener

The high-rise buildings of Shanghai, this time captured in an image that shows the Huangpu River looping around them. The meaning of the name of the city of Shanghai is 'upon the sea'. This alludes to the Shanghai’s location along the Yangtze River Delta near the South China Sea

The 1,535ft Oriental Pearl Tower, left, can be seen dominating the skyline of Shanghai. Until 2007, it was the tallest structure in China

The sun sets on waterlogged rice fields in Yuanyang County. Around 200million tons of rice are produced in China each year

Two ships sail down the Yangtze River amid breathtaking hills. The river is the longest in Asia, stretching for almost 4,000 miles

Cars travel along a highway through China's capital Beijing. Due to rising car ownership, Beijing is one of the worst places in the world for air pollution

The Li River meanders around the lush green hills in Yangshuo County. We just couldn't resist featuring this scenery twice

The Great Wall of China is estimated to stretch more than 13,000 miles across China. It attracts 10million visitors each year

The incredible jagged peaks located in the Wulingyuan Scenic Area, Zhangjiajie. The area is on Unesco's world heritage list and the site is dominated by more than 3,000 narrow sandstone pillars and peaks. Some rise to 600ft

Mist swirls around the peaks of the Wulingyuan Scenic Area in this wonderful picture taken from a tourist boat on a lake below

The Twin River Bridge spans the Yuzhong peninsula in the south western city of Chongqing. The city is the fourth biggest in China after Beijing, Shanghai and Tianjin

Tianjin (its financial district is pictured), has a population of around 15million and its metropolitan district covers 4,200 square miles

A farmer guides his water buffalo across a stone bridge in the Guilin region. Water buffalo are the most important animal for these farmers as they are able to till the flooded rice paddy fields

Cormorant fishing in China is a practice that stretches back at least 1,000 years. The birds dive and catch fish for their masters but are prevented from swallowing big catches by a snare tied around their throats. This beautiful image was captured in Guilin

Welcome to the world's largest city square - Xinghai Square, which was built in 1998. It's located in the city of Dalian and covers 270 acres

Xinshi is a Chinese 'water town' that was built around 1,000 years ago. China can be overwhelmingly industrial and wonderfully quaint...

A hidden settlement sits in the basin of a valley in the Yandang Mountains in eastern China. The mountains are thought to be one of the areas where the South China tiger can be found

Dam that's beautiful: The small islands that are scattered in Qiandao Lake in Zhejiang province. The lake, which is a fresh-water, human-made body of water, was formed in 1959 after the completion of the Xin'an River hydroelectric station

The colourful mountains of the Zhangye National Geopark close to China's border with Mongolia. Sandstone and mineral deposits have created the swirling orange, yellow and white lunar-like landscape

A light monorail track has been built to go through a hole in a residential 19-storey building in China. The city of Chongqing in the south-east of the country has a population of 49 million packed into 31,000 square miles, causing urban planners to look creatively at solving space issues. A special railway station was built into the block of houses, set into the sixth to eighth floors

Yunnan province in south west China is known for its diverse landscape. Pictured are rural farming fields giving off a red autumnal glow

The Karakul Lake in Xinjiang, an autonomous region of north western China. There are two Kirgiz settlements along the shore of the lake and pictured is a traditional Kirgiz yurt

The Blue Moon Valley, pictured, takes it name from the striking colour of the river close to the Jade Dragon Snow Mountain in Yunnan. The river is fed by melting snow and ice running down from the peak

The Detian Waterfall is often described as Asia's biggest trans-national waterfall as it sits on the border of both China and Vietnam. Over the past 1,000 years, the waterfall has eroded and has moved slowly upstream

The Crescent Moon Spring in Dunhuang is an oasis in the middle of the desert. The oasis, which is believed to have existed for 2,000 years, was shrinking fast due to increasing desertification in the region before the government began to refill it

Winters can be harsh in northern China and it is not unusual to see snow in cities such as Harbin, Beijing and Tianjin

A giant panda clings on to a tree in Chengdu while posing for the camera. The bear is native to central China but there are just over 1,800 left in the wild

A traditional boat floats past the historic buildings lining a canal in Shanghai. These days, the boats are popular with tourists

Shipping containers are lined up ready to be loaded at Shanghai International Shipping Centre. The port of Shanghai is the busiest in the world in terms of cargo tonnage moved

The Yingwuzhou Bridge in Wuhan crosses the mammoth Yangtze River. Wuhan is the capital of Hubei province, and is the most populous city in central China. Around 10million people live there

====== 1051 ========

FATHER SPENDS DAYS CLIMBING MOUNTAINS AND ROAMING NORWEGIAN WILDERNESS WITH HIS DAUGHTER AGED 3

Meet the father and his three-year-old daughter who spend their days climbing mountains and roaming across the Norwegian wilderness.

Alexander Read, 33, lost his job at the beginning of year but decided to turn his misfortune into a travelling opportunity with his then two-year-old daughter, Mina.

And since March, the duo has spent time traversing snow, ice and rock, trekking 310 miles across almost all of southern Norway.

Scroll down for video

Alexander Read and his three-year-old daughter, Mina, who spend their days climbing mountains and roaming the Norwegian wilderness

Alexander, a former soldier, lost his job at the beginning of the year so decided to take the opportunity to go travelling with his daughter

The pair have spent time traversing snow, ice and rock, trekking 310 miles across almost all of southern Norway

On their travels, Mina has been learning about the great outdoors and developing various skills, including fishing

Mina has already conquered one of Norway's biggest mountains, Mt. Snøhetta, standing at a staggering 7,500ft

Alexander, a former soldier, has been towing 40kg of regular mountaineering provisions behind him - such as food, fuel and a tent - and other less-conventional, but still vital, supplies for his pint-sized accomplice including nappies, story books and a pink princess kit.

The pair have spent nearly five months of 2018 in the great outdoors, and at just three years old, Mina has already conquered one of Norway's biggest mountains, Mt. Snøhetta, standing at a staggering 7,500ft.

Hoping to continue his adventures with Mina for a long time yet, Alexander is also excited by the prospect of another child joining the team come January.

Alexander, who graduated with a masters from the University of Manchester, said: 'I've been hiking in the mountains for as long as I can remember - my mom took me out on trips when I was a young boy.

'That's where the foundation was built for what would become a strong interest and hobby, before becoming part of my family's way of living.

'Mina's first outdoor experience was when she was five weeks old, and her mom and I took her hunting in the mountains.

Alexander says that Mina has learned how to analyse her surroundings and the sometimes slippery surfaces she walks on so she doesn't fall

Mina in the sledge that Alexander tows along the snow. His fiance, Kristin, meets the pair at certain checkpoints to drop off supplies

Alexander said: 'Mountains are a part of my life, so when Mina was born, she became part of that world automatically'

Mina cuddles her doll at the top of a Norwegian peak. As well as taking the usual supplies in his kit, Alex also has to bring nappies, toys and story books on his travels

'Ever since then, Mina and I have embarked on several expeditions and long hiking trips in the mountains - sometimes for two months at a time.

'I never decided to introduce the mountains to Mina, it was as natural as breathing.

'Mountains are a part of my life, so when Mina was born, she became part of that world automatically.

'It's amazing to watch your daughter outdoors in the mountains and see how playful, happy and present she is.

'She has already learned so much about [the world] just by being outdoors.

Alexander says Mina is already aware of danger, saying: 'She can even point up at a mountainside and say: "Daddy, we cannot go there because an avalanche may start"

Mina's first outdoor experience was when she was five weeks old, when her parents took her hunting in the mountains

'When you see Mina walking on big rocks - which can be slippery - you can see that she is analysing her surroundings and the surface of the rocks in order not to fall.

'She can even point up at a mountainside and say: "Daddy, we cannot go there because an avalanche may start."

'Obviously she has a lot to learn, but so do I.

'That's what I really enjoy about the outdoor and adventure life, you'll never be finished with your learning process no matter how much time you spend in the mountains.'

Alexander's fiancée, Kristin, a full-time surgeon, rarely joins the duo on their lengthy trips away.

But she does make the occasional cameo appearance dropping off additional supplies to their various checkpoints.

Mina's mother pictured during a cameo appearance. She is currently expecting the couple's second child

Alexander said: 'It's amazing to watch your daughter outdoors in the mountains and see how playful, happy and present she is'

Currently expecting with their second child, Alexander has already planned an excursion for their newest addition in May next year.

Alexander added: 'Kristin is amazing - she takes my dreams seriously and make all of this possible to do this as a family.

'We will never stop [adventuring as a family].

'As Mina gets older we will have to consider her school, but for now this will be what we do.

'It's now a lifelong project to live an adventure.'

====== 1052 ========

10 CRACKING CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY PACKAGES ACROSS THE UK

If you fancy spending Christmas at a relaxing hotel, wherever you choose has to feel very special – so we’ve selected ten of the best packages on offer across the UK to help you pick a winner.

All, of course, include that essential centrepiece of the festive calendar – a mouth-watering Christmas dinner.

Scroll down to read the full list, which we think yule love.

1. HOLBECK GHYLL, LAKE DISTRICT

Holbeck Ghyll overlooks Lake Windermere, pictured, is dog-friendly and has three AA Rosettes for its fodder

Why here? Luxurious Edwardian country house featuring a traditional fine-dining restaurant with three AA Rosettes (outstanding) overlooking Lake Windermere.

Christmas cheer: Guests can enjoy a champagne-tasting event, a traditional boat cruise on Windermere and a formal airing of the Queen’s Christmas speech with Christmas cake in the lounge.

Boxing Day walk: Bracing fell-rambling from the doorstep.

Insider tip: Holbeck is dog-friendly.

Christmas Package: Four-night stay from £1,880pp. holbeckghyll.com

2. THE LYGON ARMS, BROADWAY, COTSWOLDS

The most wonderful time of the year: Guests at Lygon Arms (above) in the Cotswolds will be entertained by a magician

Why here? A postcard-pretty coaching inn that’s been around a while (guests have included Charles I and Oliver Cromwell). These days there’s a sumptuous spa plus an acclaimed restaurant.

Christmas cheer: Gaze out over a huge decorated tree in the main street, tuck into Christmas dinner in the atmospheric 16th Century dining hall, and be entertained by a magician and carol singing.

Boxing Day walk: After watching the local hunt meet outside, climb nearby Broadway Hill for views from Broadway Tower.

Insider tip: Choose the Charles I Suite for the sheer thrill of sleeping where the King held meetings.

Christmas package: Three nights from £2,565 per couple. lygonarmshotel.co.uk

3. ALEXANDRA HOTEL, LYME REGIS, DORSET

The Alexandra Hotel is in Lyme Regis, which boasts a splendid harbour (pictured) and a pretty beach

Why here? This beautiful 18th Century aristocrat’s home is now a super family-friendly boutique hotel overlooking the Jurassic Coast. The stylish sea-view restaurant has won awards for its use of local produce.

Christmas cheer: Enjoy carol singing in the hotel’s own cliff-top chapel followed by home-made mince pies. Buck’s fizz is served in your bedroom on Christmas morning and you can enjoy a delicious black-tie dinner complete with hand-made crackers on Boxing Day.

Boxing Day walk: A path from the large garden leads to the harbour, the Cobb – made famous by the 1981 movie The French Lieutenant’s Woman – and the renowned fossil cliffs.

Insider tip: Family-friendly details include a children’s playground in the garden.

Christmas package: Three nights from £695pp. hotelalexandra.co.uk

4. LYMPSTONE MANOR, EAST DEVON

Yule be comfortable: One of the sumptuous bedrooms at East Devon’s Lympstone Manor

Why here? Overlooking the Exe Estuary, this Georgian house – the ancestral home of famous banking family the Barings – has been transformed into celebrity chef Michael Caines’s glamorous five-star hotel with a Michelin-star restaurant. Luxuries include private terraces with fire-pits and hot-tubs, a hotel vineyard and wine room for tastings, crystal chandeliers and monthly art exhibitions.

Christmas cheer: Besides gourmet menus, there are wine tastings, carol singers and live jazz on offer amid sumptuous decorations. Guests can be transported to Exeter Cathedral’s midnight mass.

Boxing Day walk: Enjoy a guided wildlife walk along the nearby coast and estuary.

Insider tip: Leave room for home-made traditional Christmas pudding made by Michael’s mum.

Christmas package: Three nights from £797 per night for two. lympstonemanor.co.uk

5. CRINGLETIE HOUSE, PEBBLES, SCOTLAND

Why here? It’s an imposing Victorian gothic castle with open fires in bedrooms where guests are left a bedside whisky nightcap and can relax amid tartan carpets, frescoed ceilings and big old cast-iron radiators. You can also book in-room spa treatments and enjoy the walled garden and 28-acre estate with waterfalls, woodland walks and Scotland’s oldest yew hedge.

Christmas cheer: Enjoy chestnuts roasted on open fires, a treasure hunt by foot or car, then sit down to a traditional Highland supper with haggis while a piper plays.

Boxing Day walk: Spot owls and deer on the woodland path from the hotel or join an organised walk into the hills with the hotel’s own alpaca (wellies supplied).

Insider tip: Romantics should book ‘Glentress’, a fairytale turret bedroom.

Christmas package: Three-day break from £835 per person. cringletie.com

6. ACKERGILL TOWER, NEAR WICK, SCOTLAND

Winter wonderlands: Majestic Ackergill Tower (above), Scotland, where guests will be welcomed with local single-malt whisky

Why here? This 15th Century fortified tower is the UK’s most northerly Grade A listed monument. Now it’s a wonderfully remote five-star hotel surrounded by a 3,000-acre estate. There are beds in the castle, cottages and even a treehouse – so perfect for a big family party.

Christmas cheer: Guests are welcomed with local single-malt whisky and can enjoy a kilt-wearing formal dinner in the wood-panelled Great Hall with the traditional ‘drumming in the beef and addressing the haggis’. You can also try toasting marshmallows in a fire-pit on the beach with a bagpiper playing, feast on mince pies and play board games in the drawing room. There will also be live music and dancing in the castle ‘pub’ and a festive castle treasure hunt.

Boxing Day walk: Spot otters and seals on the estate’s seven miles of unspoilt coastline.

Insider tip: Pack light – guests are provided with Hunter wellingtons and Barbour jackets.

Christmas package: Three nights from £995pp. ackergilltower.com

7. DEAN COURT HOTEL, YORK

Why here? This grand Victorian hotel, which once housed clergymen, stands opposite the Minster.

Christmas cheer: Wake on Christmas morning to the Minster’s bells. The hotel’s house-party atmosphere includes quizzes, a panto trip, a visit from Santa and elves, carol singers and a magician. Cross the road for midnight mass followed by mulled wine and mince pies.

Boxing Day walk: Take a two-mile circuit of York’s intact Roman town walls with views across the rooftops of the historic centre.

Insider tip: Lean out of the window of Suite 17 and you can almost touch the West Door of the Minster.

Christmas package: Three nights from £1,095 for two. deancourt-york.co.uk

8. LODORE FALLS HOTEL & SPA, KESWICK

Relax: The outdoor heated hydro pool at Lodore Falls in Keswick, which also boasts a glitzy spa

Why here? Following a £10 million makeover, this 200-year-old Borrowdale hotel now boasts a glitzy spa with an outdoor heated hydro pool and acclaimed restaurant.

Christmas cheer: There’s a dazzling list of entertainment that includes a welcome ‘gin & tea party’ with the local choir, a black-tie dinner with a magician, balloonist and pianist, a candlelit lakeside party with hot punch and marshmallows, a Santa visit, a treasure hunt, quiz, charity duck race and Michael Bublé tribute act.

Boxing Day walk: Guided trek from the hotel with picnic lunch at Derwent Water. Hot chocolate and mince pies by the fire on return.

Insider tip: Walking boots are provided for guests.

Christmas package: Three nights for £765pp. lakedistricthotels.net

9. STANBROOK ABBEY HOTEL, NEAR WORCESTER

Novel attraction: Stanbrook Abbey Hotel’s homely Library Bar, above, where you can sip on a G&T with a good book

Why here? This former monastery with chapel and cloisters is now a luxury hotel.

Christmas cheer: Lift your spirits at a carol service in the hotel’s own candlelit Victorian chapel. Enjoy a falconry display on the lawn or sip a G&T with a good book in the Library Bar.

Boxing Day walk: It’s set in 26 acres beneath the Malvern Hills, so explore the glorious paths enjoyed by composer Sir Edward Elgar.

Insider tip: Recognise the ornate architecture? Stanbrook’s architect was Augustus Pugin, who designed London’s Big Ben.

Christmas package: Two nights –Christmas Eve and Christmas Day – from £415pp. handpickedhotels.co.uk

10. FISHMORE HALL, LUDLOW, SHROPSHIRE

Why here? This snow-white Georgian country house hotel in spectacular Shropshire landscape offers modern luxuries such as spa treatments and a pillow menu, where you can choose from a variety for your bed.

Highlights: Enjoy a champagne reception with the hotel covered in decorations, watch the hunt gallop past on Boxing Day with mulled wine, and enjoy midnight mass at the ancient St Laurence’s Church also known as ‘cathedral of the Marches’.

Boxing Day walk: Follow the path into historic Ludlow.

Insider tip: Dog-friendly. Plus pack swimwear to enjoy the hot tub with glorious views.

Christmas package: Two nights from £385pp. fishmorehall.co.uk

====== 1053 ========

PHOTOGRAPHER CAPTURES HAUNTING IMAGES OF HIS MODEL GIRLFRIEND POSING IN EERIE EMPTY BUILDINGS

An abandoned psychiatric hospital for most people would be something to steer well clear of.

But for photographer James Kerwin, just such a place became the springboard for a fashion photo series with a distinctly creepy aesthetic.

After taking a picture of his model girlfriend, Jade, inside the former Severalls Psychiatric Hospital in Colchester, Jade's hometown, he has gone on to snap her in eerie abandoned buildings in 12 European countries.

Jade in 2015 modelling a floral dress while leaning against a wall inside the abandoned Severalls Asylum in Colchester, Essex

The wallpaper peels from the walls inside this abandoned hotel in France as Jade poses. James says he was pleased Jade's dress matched the decor

A haunting picture inside Chateau Miranda in Belgium, which used to be a former school. The theme of this shoot was 'lost child'

During a trip to Belgium in 2015 James and Jade carried out a shoot for a local designer. It took place in an abandoned office block

The couple travelled to Poland and found this colourful staircase in an abandoned house and carried out an impromptu shoot

James, who is originally from Norwich, has now built a portfolio of work for himself and Jade by shooting in old chateaux, disused trains and abandoned hotels.

The Severalls Psychiatric Hospital shoot took place in 2015 - and it was a brand new experience for James.

He said: 'It was only my second ever image taken inside these dark and poorly lit buildings.

The ornate walls and candle holders are still intact inside this abandoned French chateau. Jade wears a dress by a Belgium-based designer

Furniture and a toy pram lay abandoned inside an empty mansion in France. Jade wore a bespoke dress for this eerie shot

Jade poses in the same spine-chilling Parisian mansion, but wearing a different dress

The rooms inside this derelict French chateau were still full of furniture. Jade just so happened to have packed this purple dress, which almost blends in with the surroundings

'We managed to take just three shots before being asked to leave by the security team. Nevertheless, we were happy because we had a great result.

'The first image that we captured although it’s not the most technical of images, Jade still loves it to this day. It was the start of a story and of a string of images that we were to shoot across Europe and beyond.

'I find places through friends, by chance or by hours and hours of research online.'

The pair have now visited countries including France, Belgium, Hungary and Ukraine, all with Jade's wardrobe in tow.

The couple have explored several abandoned buildings in the UK including the now empty Royal Hospital Haslar in Hampshire, which used be a military facility

Jade pets a stray dog inside an empty former sanatorium in Georgia. The animal had approached them during the shoot

Jade lays against a smashed up piano outside a derelict palace in central Poland in a shot captured last spring

Jade poses in the snow outside the the Chateau de Gudanes in the south of France. It was abandoned but has now been renovated by an Australian family

James added: 'Jade finds the dresses online, through collaborations with designers and also some of the simpler designs in local charity shops, where she returns them afterwards so not to waste them.

'Sometimes as well fashion shops and retro designers have contacted us over the past four years and asked us to shoot their dresses or outfits.

'Each image tells a story of an adventure, travel and portrays my unique style. But it also provides us with memories as time flies by, year after year.'

During a road trip around France, the pair discovered a disused railway carriage and thought it would be the perfect place for a shot of Jade wearing a retro dress

While the pair were in Hungary, they came across an abandoned Soviet railway train to pose against

To capture this stunning image, Jade climbed up the steps inside an abandoned former power plant in Hungary wearing a red dress to stand out against the bleak background

In April 2007, James and Jade travelled to Pripyat, a ghost town in Ukraine. They carried out a Tomb Raider-themed shoot overlooking the rooftops

====== 1054 ========

ADRIAN CHILES REVIEWS HOTEL BELLEVUE IN CROATIA

As my mum's Croatian I'm often asked for advice about booking a holiday there. I always flinch a little. It's a big responsibility packing someone off to a destination of my choosing.

What if they don't like it? Furthermore, if they complain about anything Croatian I'll be furious with them. This is family, after all.

It's like sending my children off with another family. It's a risk. I can't quite vouch for their behaviour, but I sure as hell don't want my babies criticised.

The Hotel Bellevue on the island of Mali Lošinj, which lies in the Adriatic Sea. Broadcaster Adrian Chiles has declared it his favourite spot in Croatia

Now though I have found a place in Croatia I can send anyone to – along with their babies if they wish – with absolute confidence I can say it'll be everything I might want it to be for them.

The Hotel Bellevue is on the island of Mali Lošinj, overlooking a sheltered bay and the Adriatic Sea. It looks like a section of an art deco-era luxury cruise liner improbably moored in the fringes of a pine forest. Ah, I love the Adriatic. It's clear and it's blue and my Mum named me after it. But, I digress.

The Bellevue is a miracle of light and space. I don't think I've come across anything quite like it anywhere in the world, and definitely not in Croatia. There's a word in my second language that I find most useful. It is gužva. It translates directly as crush, but it is also used to imply trouble.

And it has, until now, been the word I've reached for to describe Croatia in July and August. It has invariably been a right old gužva and no mistake. From when I came as a toddler until now in my 50s, it's always felt like there are too many tourists competing for too little space.

Adrian says: 'It looks like a section of an art deco-era luxury cruise liner improbably moored in the fringes of a pine forest'

But not at this place. Plate-eyed from surveying the lobby area, wherein there was easily room to stage a couple of badminton matches, I was led blinking out towards the pools and the loungers and, beyond the pine trees, the sea twinkling respectfully away. There was a feel of The Great Gatsby about it all.

The sun screaming off the clean white stonework surely threatened retina damage. I'd left my sunglasses in my bag at reception but, impressed beyond measure, squinting narrowly, I made my way down to the water's edge.

I found there, what I'd been waiting for all my life. Croatia, you see, with its marvellous coastline and thousand islands, has very few beaches. The Adriatic, as thrillingly blue as it is, generally presents a significant challenge to actually get into.

Adrian says that the lobby area has easily enough room to stage a couple of badminton matches

I would say 98 per cent of the seashore is rocky as you like. You may find a flat bit to lie on, and you may even find a geologically convenient arrangement of rocks to jump off, or step into the water, but you'd be among the lucky ones. And then there are the sea urchins everywhere.

They look very much as if you wouldn't want to step on one. Trust me, you don't want to step on one. Again, since I was a toddler I've been gingerly trying to negotiate my treacherous way into that gorgeous water.

Not at this place. Here, fashioned in that glorious flat white stone, there's a sea-shore you can leap off into that wonderful water. And there are even steps to facilitate easy entry and exit for the less athletic. Sorry to bang on, but anyone reading this who's holidayed as often as I have in Croatia will be nodding furiously in appreciation.

They might even still feel the faint prickle of where sea urchins' spines once broke and couldn't be dislodged many moons before.

One of the smart lounges in the Hotel Bellevue. Mr Chiles says that he'll be returning to the Hotel Bellevue every year for the rest of his life

Adrian says: 'The service manages to achieve that magical blend of super-efficiency untainted by the remotest stuffiness'

So I'll be returning to the Hotel Bellevue every year for the rest of my life, if only for easy access to my beloved Adriatic. If you need more than that, be assured that you will find it. There are pools, indoor and out, both gently heated and plenty of space to lounge about under pine trees or shades like sails.

You won't wait long for a young Croatian to make their way over to you take orders for food and drink. The service manages to achieve that magical blend of super-efficiency untainted by the remotest stuffiness. A place this grand hadn't ought to feel child-friendly but it absolutely manages that too.

The spa is magnificent too, offering a range of things very few of which meant anything to me at all. I'm not really a face mask/scrub/lift/wash type of guy. I did risk a massage though.

Dreamy: Adrian loved his bedroom (stock image) - and said that 'it was fitted out very nicely with air con that gently came to life whenever the sliding doors onto the terrace were closed'

There are pools, indoor and out, both gently heated and plenty of space to lounge about under pine trees or shades like sails, writes Mr Chiles

Adrian Chiles hosts Chiles on Friday and Question Time Extra Time, both on BBC Radio 5 Live. He's pictured here at an event at BFI Southbank in London

As usual, as I prepared for my rub down, I reflected on the need for some kind of internationally recognised code of conduct for massage table etiquette. The question is, to be in the buff or not to be in the buff. Around the world I've been gently mocked for both standing there naked, and for leaving my pants on.

On this occasion, as the Croatian lady held the towel in front of her to protect my modesty, I dropped my swimming shorts.

'Face down?' I queried.

'Face down,' she confirmed from behind the towel.

I mounted the table face down. I was aware of her lowering the towel, and she said, 'No, other way.'

'Eh?'

Confusion reigned. She held the towel up again as I turned onto my back.

'No,' she said, more in kindness than exasperation. 'Face down, head the other end.'

The penny dropped. Up went the towel again. Wanting to bring this excruciating pantomime to a brisk end, lying there on my back with my head at the wrong end, I attempted a kind of break dance manoeuvre to spin myself round.

In doing so my feet got snagged in the towel she was holding, snapping it out of her hands and giving the poor woman a brief and I'm sure unwanted sight of my reproductive organs.

The spa offers a range of treatments. Adrian went for a massage, but managed to snag his foot on a towel being held up by the masseuse and believes she may have caught sight of his reproductive organs

Deeply ashamed and full of apologies I turned over, finally now the right way round and right way up. I plunged my head as deep as it'd go into the hole in the table and resolved to pretend none of the above had happened.

It was a very good massage, which given what she'd been through was a great credit to the woman involved.

A word on the food, and the rooms: both are everything you might want.

Breakfasts were monumentally satisfying and in the evening the range of restaurants will tick every box. There was even plenty for this Croatian vegetarian – a rare breed indeed.

Again the service was friendly and attentive, though having all the waiters wearing white gloves seemed a mite over the top. After too much red wine I woozily wondered if I might have stumbled into some kind of training camp for budding snooker referees.

Adrian says: 'The Bellevue is a miracle of light and space. I don't think I've come across anything quite like it anywhere in the world, and definitely not in Croatia'

If all the luxury proves too much for you, by the way, the decidedly lovely town of Mali Lošinj is a short walk away. There you can feast on enormous pizzas brought to your table by barehanded waiters.

Back in the Bellevue my bedroom wasn't enormous but who's going to spend much time in their room anyway? It was fitted out very nicely with aircon that gently came to life whenever the sliding doors onto the terrace were closed.

Oh, and if you happen to be super rich the hotel has an enormous villa next door with a private beach, your own chef and butler and lots of other things, all yours for around 11,000 euros a night.

But, in the nicest possible way, why bother when you've got perfection priced much more competitively, right next door?

Adrian Chiles hosts Chiles on Friday and Question Time Extra Time, both on BBC Radio 5 Live.

====== 1055 ========

HALF OF THE WORLD'S ANNUAL PRECIPITATION FALLS IN JUST 12 DAYS, NEW STUDY FINDS

Half of the world's measured precipitation that falls in a year falls in just 12 days, a shocking new study has found.

Researchers analyzed data collected at weather stations across the globe for the find.

However, they say it is set to get even worse, and by the century's end, climate models project that this lopsided distribution of rain and snow is likely to become even more skewed, with half of annual precipitation falling in 11 days.

Scroll down for video

Half of the world's measured precipitation that falls in a year falls in just 12 days, a shocking new study has found. Rising flood waters in the Pee Dee area in Marion County, S.C. South Carolina officials say the damage done by Hurricane Florence earlier this year is about half what was originally feared.

The findings, which suggest that flooding and the damage associated with it could also increase, have implications for water managers, urban planners, and emergency responders.

Previous studies have shown that we can expect both an increase in extreme weather events and a smaller increase in average annual precipitation in the future as the climate warms, but researchers are still exploring the relationship between those two trends.

'This study shows how those two pieces fit together,' said Angeline Pendergrass, a scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR) and the lead author of the new study.

'What we found is that the expected increases happen when it's already the wettest -- the rainiest days get rainier.'

Researchers admit they were shocked by the results.

'I would have guessed the number would be larger - perhaps a month,' Pendergrass said.

The analysis of rainfall measured at weather stations across the globe between 1999 and 2014 found that the median time it took for half of a year's precipitation to fall was just 12 days. A quarter of annual precipitation fell in just six days, and three-quarters fell in 27 days.

'But when we looked at the median, or midpoint, from all the available observation stations, the number was just 12 days.'

For the analysis, Pendergrass worked with Reto Knutti, of the Institute for Atmospheric and Climate Science in Zurich, Switzerland.

They used data from 185 ground stations for the 16 years from 1999 through 2014, a period when measurements could be validated against data from the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) satellite.

While the stations were dispersed globally, the majority were in North America, Eurasia, and Australia.

The team then used simulations from 36 of the world's leading climate models that had data for daily precipitation.

They found that total annual precipitation at the observation stations increased slightly in the model runs, but half of the extra rain and snow fell over just six days.

This contributed to total precipitation also falling more unevenly than it does today, with half of a year's total precipitation falling in just 11 days by 2100, compared to 12 in the current climate.

'While climate models generally project just a small increase in rain in general, we find this increase comes as a handful of events with much more rain and, therefore, could result in more negative impacts, including flooding,' Pendergrass said.

'We need to take this into account when we think about how to prepare for the future.'

The research was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy and the National Science Foundation, which is NCAR's sponsor, and the results are published in Geophysical Research Letters, a journal of the American Geophysical Union.

====== 1056 ========

NEW 'BUCKET LIST' REVEALS THE 50 TOP THINGS TO EXPERIENCE IN THE WORLD RIGHT NOW

A brand new 'bucket list' has revealed the best 50 things to experience in the world right now - and visiting a polka dot museum in Japan is top.

It beat a night of partying at a famous New York hot spot as well as a having a sauna in an egg-shaped pod in Swedish Lapland.

The list has been put together by local Time Out editors, city experts and 15,000 people surveyed across the world. Here we put the spotlight on the top 10 in order of must-do...

1. Yayoi Kusama Museum - Tokyo (Japan)

The Yayoi Kusama Museum in Tokyo, which gives fans of the artists an intimate glimpse into her work

The Yayoi Kusama Museum is a slender, minimalist space that opened in 2017.

It is a polka dot paradise and Instagram heaven, giving fans of artist Yayo Kusama an intimate glimpse into her work.

Time Out said: 'Those who nab some are rewarded with an unforgettable experience of beautiful masterworks.'

2. House of Yes, New York (USA)

Two dancers perform at New York's House of Yes in Brooklyn's Bushwick neighbourhood

Located in Brooklyn’s Bushwick neighbourhood, House of Yes is a hidden-away club celebrating all things hedonistic.

According to Time Out, it is a place where anything goes, and it is keeping the city’s weird streak alive.

On any given night, the house is packed with body painters, aerialists, dancers and more.

3. Solar Egg by Bigert & Bergström for Riksbyggen - Kiruna (Sweden)

The solar egg, which houses an 'insanely cool sauna' is located in one of Sweden's northernmost towns

Kiruna is one of Sweden’s most northernmost towns and home to an out-of-this-world sauna.

Solar Egg is a giant, shiny golden-mirror-clad social sculpture by artists Bigert & Bergström, laid on a hilltop and surrounded by Lapland’s icy landscape.

Time Out say it is an insanely cool sauna and a warm cocoon to enjoy and follow with a reinvigorating naked roll in the arctic snow.

4. Meow Wolf - Santa Fe (U.S.)

The interactive art installation at Meow Wolf in Santa Fe inside an unassuming building in the city's industrial district

Taking entertainment to the next level, Meow Wolf in Santa Fe is an immersive, interactive art installation.

Inside an unassuming building in the city’s industrial district is the ‘House of Eternal Return’ – a multi-dimensional experience for adults and kids alike, featuring mind-bending and magical worlds, accessed through secret passages.

Sliding down a washing machine or climbing through a refrigerator, visitors land at the end of the tunnel in a lounge space, which is a room aglow with twinkling blue stars.

5. Tejo at Los Amigos Club - Cali (Colombia)

The Los Amigos Club in Cali, Colombia, where visitors can play the bizarre sport of tejo

Colombia’s national sport, Tejo, involves drinking copious amounts of beer while throwing metal pucks into a nearby goal packed with clay.

But there is a twist: the clay is embedded with small explosives, which prove particularly difficult to avoid after a couple of drinks.

Time Out said: 'The late Anthony Bourdain made Tejo internationally popular; he learned to play it at Los Amigos Club in Cali, where visitors can still toss a tejo puck, drink too much of the local brew and hang out with regulars.'

6. Museum of Old & New Art - Tasmania (Australia)

The Museum of Old and New Art in Tasmania, which Time Out say is full of surprises

The Museum of Old and New Art is full of surprises, say Time Out. It is built underground, accessed by a high speed, camo-painted ferry and was funded by the gambling proceeds of owner David Walsh.

Located in Hobart, Tasmania – Australia’s island state – the museum’s most recent addition is the Pharos Wing, described by Walsh as ‘a testimonial to the power of light as art’, and features four majors works by James Turrell among others.

In fact, it is one of the only places in the world right now to experience one of his perceptual cells: a fully immersive light bath that has been described as being like a hallucination.

7. Cinespia - Los Angeles (U.S.)

Crowd gather on the lawn at the Hollywood Forever Cemetery for a Cinespia event in Los Angeles

There is hardly a more magical movie experience in this world than Cinespia’s cemetery screenings which bring hoards of movie lovers to the hallowed resting place of Hollywood stars such as Bugsy Siegel and Rudolph Valentino.

According to Time Out, it isn’t summer in L.A. until Angelenos flock to the Hollywood Forever Cemetery lawn – packed with drinks, snacks and blankets – to watch classic and cult films projected onto the side of an enormous mausoleum.

There are also DJ sets, dance parties, fireworks, film-set-worthy photo booths and a few all-night slumber parties.

8. Casa Vicens - Barcelona (Spain)

Casa Vicens in Barcelona, which was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2005, but only opened to the public in November 2017

Mention Barcelona, and the Gaudí wonders of Sagrada Familia and Park Güell are always going to be at the top of a traveller’s must-see list.

But the most recent Gaudí to open to the public was in fact his first major architectural undertaking, and an inspiration for his later works.

Casa Vicens was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2005, but only opened to the public in November 2017. Since then visitors have been able to explore the house designed in 1853 as a summer resort in the Gràcia neighbourhood.

9. Mil - Maras (Peru)

The Mil restaurant in Peru, which is dedicated to high-altitude cuisine and only serves ingredients grown above 11,500 feet

Mil is Peru’s only restaurant dedicated to high-altitude cuisine.

Guests of this unique restaurant overlook the ruins of Moray – built by the Inca as an agricultural laboratory.

As an homage to these former innovators, the restaurant only serves ingredients grown at 11,500 feet or above. Diners enjoy eight ‘moments’, featuring local wine, alpaca and a handful of Peru’s 4,000 types of tubers.

10. Time Out Market Lisbon (Portugal)

The Mercado da Ribeira in Lisbon is now known as the Time Out Market and has 32 restaurants

Once a neglected building, in 2014 Time Out Lisbon editors went about turning the Mercado da Ribeira into Time Out Market, a food and cultural market bringing the best of the city under one roof.

According to Time Out, the market is popular with both locals and tourists a 3.6 million visitors came to the market in 2017 to explore food from 32 restaurants and kiosk and enjoy drinks from eight bars and cafes.

There are also five shops, cooking workshops in the Chef’s Academy and events in the Time Out Studio, a 900-capacity entertainment venue.

Read more about Time Out's list of of the top 50 things to do here .

====== 1057 ========

AIRPORT INSTALLS CUSTOM-MADE HANGAR DOORS TO ACCOMMODATE THE WORLD'S LARGEST PASSENGER PLANES

One of Europe's major airports has installed these bizarre custom-made hangar doors to accommodate the world's largest passenger plane.

The doors at Munich Airport have been made with a large hole in the middle - so they can close around the Airbus A380 leaving the tail fin sticking outside of the hangar.

Before the new rail-mounted gates were installed, the giant planes could only be maintained with the hangar doors left open, leaving mechanics and maintenance workers shivering on cold days.

Scroll down for video

One of Europe's major airports has installed these bizarre custom-made hangar doors to accommodate the world's largest passenger plane

The doors at Munich Airport have been made with a large hole in the middle - so they can close around the Airbus A380 leaving the tail fin sticking outside of the hangar

There are five Airbus A380s which are part of the Lufthansa fleet and they have been based at the airport since March. They were previously housed at Frankfurt.

The doors which were built to accommodate the planes, measure 72 feet high and 36 feet wide.

It took four weeks to build the 20 ton doors.

There are five Airbus A380s which are part of the Lufthansa fleet and they have been based at the airport since March

The gates which were built to accommodate the planes, measure 72 feet high and 36 feet wide. It took four weeks to build the 20 ton doors

The large hole means the tail fin is left sticking a full 6.6 feet outside the hangar during maintenance work.

An airport spokesperson said the hole fits snugly around the plane and prevents chilly draughts.

They added that leaving the tail fin outside would not pose any problems even in the coldest conditions, as the planes are used to flying at temperatures dipping to minus 60 degrees Celsius.

A video showing the new gates in action has been posted on the airport website, with the comment: 'This is our definition of a perfect butt.'

The large hole means the tail fin is left sticking a full 6.6 feet outside the hangar during maintenance work

An airport spokesperson said the hole fits snugly around the plane and prevents chilly draughts

To date the clip has been watched more than 18,000 times, with lots of viewers responding with the 'laughing' emoji.

Munich Airport, in the south-eastern German state of Bavaria, is the second-busiest airport in Germany and the seventh-busiest in Europe.

The Airbus A380 is a double-deck, wide-body, four-engine jet airliner which can carry 525 people in a typical three-class configuration.

Munich Airport, in the south-eastern German state of Bavaria, is the second-busiest airport in Germany and the seventh-busiest in Europe

====== 1058 ========

THE ULTIMATE GUIDE TO THE BEST SAFARIS TO SEE THE BIG FIVE

Who doesn’t dream of a thrilling safari in the heart of Africa – and of ticking off some, if not all, of the so-called Big Five from their bucket list?

Whether it’s lions, leopards, buffaloes, rhinos or elephants you’ve set your sights on, here is our expert guide to the very best places to find them.

We also have all the advice you need for the ultimate safari holiday, from the best time of year to travel to top tips for families.

LIONS - SOUTH AFRICA

Eye-to-eye: At Shambala there is no fence, no barrier, not even a vehicle door between you and a pride of lions

Check in: The Shambala Private Game Reserve, 120 miles north of Johannesburg.

Sighting: Not for the faint-hearted – you’ll get up close at Shambala. On an escorted walk in the bush there is no fence, no barrier, not even a vehicle door between you and a pride of lions.

The reserve was designed to be different by South African insurance billionaire Douw Steyn (the man behind comparethemarket.com), who crafted it out of an old watermelon farm and cattle ranch 30 years ago.

He started by bringing in lions, followed by the rest of the Big Five, and added wildebeest, giraffes, zebras and cheetahs to the mix. Steyn didn’t want a zoo, so he left them to it. He wanted nature in the raw, where animal numbers rise or fall according to the law of the wild.

The rooms: Luxury-lovers can choose from eight main honeycomb-shaped chalets with king-size beds, swanky bathrooms, outdoor showers and personal butlers.

If that’s not enough, then blow the budget and rent the six-bedroom lodge Steyn built for his friend Nelson Mandela, who finished writing his autobiography, Long Walk To Freedom, here.

Zulu Lodge is where guests join the camp’s chefs to discuss the day’s menu before enjoying fine-dining around a fire pit, eating the latest fresh, South African food from local markets. It’s also a perfect place for star-gazing before a midnight game drive.

Stays at Shambala ( shambalaprivategamereserve.co.za ) start at £699 a night for two people sharing a chalet, with all meals, game drives and bush walks included. Scott Dunn ( scottdunn.com ) has five-night packages, including flights, from £3,500pp.

Gareth Huw Davies

LEOPARDS - NAMIBIA

I've been spotted: Leopards are the most elusive of the Big Five as they are nocturnal, so you'll need an expert guide

Check in: The Okonjima Nature Reserve, halfway between the capital Windhoek and the renowned Etosha National Park.

Sighting: Leopards are the most elusive of the Big Five as they are nocturnal, so they doze rather than race around in the day.

Leopards are also superbly well camouflaged and masters of disguise, so you need an expert guide to help track them down.

At the family-run Okonjima, home of conservation charity The AfriCat Foundation, you set out in small groups on rough-terrain vehicles and can be out for as long as it takes to snap your prey.

Staff use radios to share sightings and suggest spots to approach. Then they use their experience to target types of vegetation where leopards are known to lie. When guides spot them, you’ll need patience to do the same. What looks like a patch of bare scrub may be hiding a gloriously languid leopard.

The rooms: Inside individual villas, double beds are set in front of vast picture windows, so you never lose the theatre of being in Africa. The big bathrooms could come from a five-star hotel and most villas have steamer chairs on private terraces.

There’s a barn-sized communal area for meals, drinks and downtime where the scattering of sofas look like an African Soho House.

Staff do presentations on the charity’s conservation efforts and guests can buy local handicrafts in the shop, or sponsor a leopard, then receive updates once at home.

Freedom Africa ( freedomafrica.co.uk ) has seven-day self-drive tours of Namibia, including the Skeleton Coast, Etosha National Park and the Okonjima Nature Reserve ( okonjima.com ), with car hire and accommodation, from £886pp.

Neil Simpson

RHINOS - SWAZILAND

You can watch white rhinos wallow in the shallows in the heart of Swaziland between South Africa and Mozambique

Check in: The Beehive Village in Mlilwane Wildlife Sanctuary (biggameparks.org), a four-hour drive from Johannesburg.

Sighting: A group of rhinos is called a crash. And a crash is what you can see and hear in a muddy waterhole in the heart of Swaziland, the landlocked country between South Africa and Mozambique. It’s at the forefront of efforts to conserve wild rhinos – poachers are said to kill two dozen a week across the border near Kruger National Park.

Here you can watch white rhinos wallow in the shallows, lumber on to land and break wind in the loudest, longest-lasting explosions anyone in our Land Rover has had the misfortune to be downwind of. But with huge, effectively armour-plated frames and surprisingly sharp horns, a rhino should not be laughed at. So we sat in silence taking photos from a safe distance.

The week-long holiday also includes an hour-long drive across country to a sister camp in Hlane Royal National Park, to see the critically endangered black rhino.

Dome from home: Grass and mud huts at the Mlilwane Wildlife Sanctuary, a four-hour drive from Johannesburg

The rooms: In Mlilwane camp, you sleep in what look like giant beehives but these traditional dome-shaped huts are made largely from grasses and mud. Inside they have high ceilings, proper beds and bathrooms but low doors and no windows, so those with claustrophobia may want to steer clear, although it’s perfect for those who like to sleep in total darkness. For a touch of luxury there’s a swimming pool, and meals are often enjoyed outside around the communal fire pit.

Explore ( explore.co.uk ) has an eight-day Kingdom Of Swaziland tour including accommodation, flights and most meals from £1,585pp.

Bridget McGrouther

ELEPHANTS - KENYA

Tusk force: Visitors to the Samburu National Reserve in Kenya can get up close to elephants

Check in: The Sasaab Lodge in the Samburu National Reserve.

Sighting: You can see elephants splashing around just feet from your riverside room – and frame the perfect Big Five photo with the jagged peak of distant Mount Kenya. Elephants love to play in water, so being on the banks of the muddy, glacier-fed Ewaso Ng’iro river should offer front-row seats to several impromptu but entertaining shows a day. Better still, you don’t need to leave the Samburu Reserve to see the other members of the Big Five club as they are all out there – somewhere.

For those seeking more emotionally charged encounters, consider a trip back to Nairobi to stay at the wonderful Giraffe Manor (where you can feed giraffes by hand from your terrace). Then visit the nearby David Sheldrick Wildlife Trust, a sanctuary for orphaned baby elephants that have lost their mothers to poachers, hunters or illegal animal traps. Watch them squealing, gambolling and tussling for gigantic bottles of milk as their keepers try to maintain order.

The rooms: At Sasaab Lodge, the luxurious, ‘tented citadels’ include open-air showers, four-poster beds, plunge pools and viewing decks. And while the roof above you may be thatched and the walls absent (to allow for a constant breeze), you can still Instagram your time using the lodge’s wi-fi. There’s a spa for sunset massages and an infinity pool for candle-lit swimming.

On early morning safaris your guide stops to brew coffee and cook eggs, bacon and pancakes. Back at camp, the chef uses produce from the on-site vegetable garden.

Stays at Sasaab Lodge or Giraffe Manor ( thesafaricollection.com ) start at £440 a night with all meals.

John Nichol

BUFFALOES - KENYA

Powerful: Dubbed ‘the widow-makers’, buffaloes are arguably the most deadly of the Big Five

Check in: The Porini Mara camp in the Serengeti-Mara wilderness.

Sighting: Dubbed ‘the widow-makers’, buffaloes are arguably the most deadly of the Big Five and reportedly kill 200 people a year. In a pre-safari briefing, guides explain what to do if a buffalo charges: lie flat on the ground, face-down, so they can’t gore and toss you on their horns. The ones we found were too busy rutting and sparring with each other to charge. But the sense of danger makes it feel all the more real.

The rooms: Ideal if you long to sleep in a tent for a fully immersive, Out Of Africa-style safari. At the tiny Porini Mara camp, there are only six full-height, permanent tents, all with hot showers and flushing loos. They also have comforting beds with rustic wooden frames, bedside tables and lamps. Lounge on sofas in your open-fronted living area and move to the mess tent, where there’s a communal dining table for 12. The hearty, British classics served are more Delia Smith than Karen Blixen.

Africa Sky ( africaskysafari.com ) has a seven-night safari, featuring three nights at Porini Mara ( porini.com ) and nights at other camps, including all meals and park fees, from £2,865pp.

Sandra Howard

====== 1059 ========

THE POWERFUL ENTRIES FOR THE 2018 SMITHSONIAN PHOTO CONTEST

Do you have what it takes to be an award-winning photographer?

Well, if you think you've captured a prize shot, you might want to enter Smithsonian.com's annual photo contest.

The competition has amassed more than 440,000 entries in the 16 years it has been running, with submissions flying in from all over the world.

There are six categories in this year's contest, including 'natural world', 'the American experience', 'travel', 'people', 'altered images' and 'mobile'.

A stormy shot of snow-dusted peaks in China, an intimate moment between an indigenous couple in Mexico and a candid capture of a U.S. marine corps soldier leaving a gas chamber are among the eye-catching entries so far.

Here MailOnline Travel serves up a selection of photos vying for the number one spot. The 2018 competition closes on November 30 and the winner will be announced next spring...

Callie Chee from Australia took this powerful shot, titled 'The King'. The image shows Yulong Snow Mountain in Yunnan, China, after a heavy snow storm

A U.S. Marine Corps recruit exits a gas chamber at an army camp in California. Roxanna Ortiz, who took the image, notes that the gas chamber trains recruits how to use gas masks so they can respond to potential chemical and biological threats

Ruben Escudero from Mexico took this touching portrait showing a couple after solar electricity was fitted in their home. The photographer explains: 'Faustina Flores Carranza, 66, and her husband Juan Astudillo Jesus, 63, sit in their solar-lit home in San Luis Acatlan, Guerrero, Mexico. Faustina and Juan have seven children and have been together for 48 years. Like many members of the indigenous community, they have never had access to electricity. When asked how having solar has impacted their lives, Juan said, ''For the first time, we are able to look each other in the eyes in our moments of intimacy"'

Reiko Takahashi, from Japan, photographed a big school of 'beautiful' jackfish swimming off the shores of Aguni Island

Danie Ferreira from South Africa took this candid shot of a mother polar bear nursing her cub. He said she was on an extreme expedition in east Greenland and travelling by dog sled with locals when he spotted the tender moment

Harry Skeggs from London said he was exploring Ranthambhore National Park in India when he spotted a Bengal tiger 'peering mysteriously though the foliage'

Maria Plotnikova from Moscow, Russia, titled this shot taken in Havana, Cuba, 'internetization'. She explained: 'Currently in Cuba, all internet services are controlled by the state-owned telecoms company ETECSA, and internet access in private houses is practically inaccessible. Recently, however, the situation has begun to change. With WiFi hotspots popping up across Cuba's major cities, Cubans finally are beginning to embrace the internet revolution, more than ten years overdue'

Julio Castro Pardo from Spain said of this picture, showing a magnificent cloud arching over a lighthouse: 'One of the most beautiful corners of the land where I live, Galicia, is this cape, which is located in the national park of the Atlantic islands. It is a unique environment to enjoy nature'

Callie Chee from Australia took this striking image of women from the Karen tribe on the Myanmar side of the Thai border. She explains that the females are best recognized for their elongated necks, with heavy brass rings around their necks and forearms

Russ Allison Loar took this colourful image of his wife, Cheryl, at one of the few 1950s diners left in southern California

Ruben Escudero took this photo titled 'reflections in Lesotho', showing a boy with a baby donkey. He explains that in Lesotho, which is a landlocked country in southern Africa, most small farmers can't afford tractors or motorised transport so they rely on donkeys for transport and to help cultivate crops

Pim Volkers from the Netherlands took this dramatic shot of wildebeest crossing the Mara River in Tanzania. Commenting on the photo he said: 'We decided to rise very early to be there before sunrise with the hope they would start crossing with perfect light conditions. And so they did...'

Ruben Escudero took this photograph showing a father cradling his sick two-year old son in a makeshift camp in Bangladesh after fleeing violence in Myanmar (left), while Mioara Chiparus took this photo of her hostess, Ekaterina, who looked after her in a sleeping cart while travelling on the Trans-Siberian train route from Moscow to Vladivostok (right)

Willem Kuijpers from the Netherlands took this candid black-and-white shot in Siciliy, Italy. He said that he took it at the end of a 24-hour holy Friday procession in Trapani, with these women weeping as the statue of the Madonna mourning was carried backwards into the church

====== 1060 ========

ROB STEWART FILM EXPOSES ILLEGAL SHARK HUNTING INDUSTRY

A new hard-hitting investigative film exposes the illegal shark fishing industry and how up to 150 million of the sharp-toothed fish are killed each year.

Sharkwater: Extinction was the brainchild of Canadian filmmaker Rob Stewart - who sadly died last year at the age of 37 during an oxygen-related dive accident - and he journeyed around the world to find out how sharks are being fished for their fins (considered a delicacy in parts of Asia) and as trophies by sports fishermen.

Photographer and cinematographer Will Allen, who worked on the film with Stewart, told MailOnline Travel that one of the most shocking discoveries they made while making the movie was how shark meat is 'regularly relabelled' and put on restaurant menus as 'ocean white fish' and 'rock salmon'.

Scroll down for video

A hard-hitting new investigative film exposes the illegal shark fishing industry and how up to 150 million of the sharp-toothed fish are needlessly killed each year. Sharkwater: Extinction was the brainchild of Canadian filmmaker Rob Stewart (pictured above in the home of a sports fisherman) - who sadly died last year at the age of 37 during an oxygen-related dive accident

In one graphic scene, piles of dead sharks are seen being hauled on shore by fishermen. It is unclear where the scene was filmed

He added: 'The meat is also put into products like cat food, fertilizer and oil from their livers is even used in cosmetics, such as sunscreen, lipstick and eye makeup!'

While making Sharkwater: Extinction, Stewart and Allen also found that supposedly protected areas, such as Cocos Islands in the Indian Ocean and the Galapagos, don't have steps in place to police the illegal shark fishing industry properly.

Allen, who is based in Montreal, explained: 'It's extremely hard to police and with shark fishing and finning taking place in such remote locations it's near impossible to stay on top of it.

'The demand needs to be cut in order for the slaughter to stop. Governments really need to step up to make change.'

While the 1975 hit thriller Jaws did much to damage the shark's reputation, the new movie attempts to show how the fish aren't interested in eating humans.

Stills from the film and behind-the-scenes photographs show Allen, Stewart and other crew members calmly swimming alongside an array of shark species, from great whites to hammerheads.

The film crew discovered how shark meat is 'regularly relabelled' and put on menus as white fish or salmon with consumers unaware of what they are eating

Sharkwater: Extinction, which was released in the U.S. and Canada last month and is currently on a global screening tour, highlights just how rife the shark fishing industry is

In one shot, Stewart is seen swimming with a hammerhead wearing a pair of swimming trunks and no protective gear.

Allen says that 'nine out of ten times sharks will swim away from you if they see you in the water'.

He added: 'They aren't interested in getting hurt as much as we are. Yet we are the ones killing them at an unsustainable rate.'

Sharkwater: Extinction, which was released in the U.S. and Canada last month and is currently on a global screening tour, highlights just how rife the shark fishing industry is.

In one graphic scene, piles of dead sharks are seen being hauled on shore and flung into a blood-stained storage shed.

Another shot from the movie shows how Stewart visited a sport fisherman's home and discovered hundreds of shark jaw bones hanging in his basement as trophies.

Sharks are loaded on to a trailer at one port (left), while a fishing vessel unloads a haul of shark carcasses' into a refrigerated shipping container in Cape Verde (right)

Photographer and cinematographer Will Allen, who worked on the film with Stewart, says that 'if the demand is stopped then the killing stops. It's that simple'

Another threat to sharks is commercial fishing, and scenes in the movie show how a bounty of wildlife is killed through bycatch with their unwanted carcasses merely thrown back into the sea.

Quizzing Allen about how the public can help with the illegal shark fishing battle, he replied: 'If the demand is stopped then the killing stops. It's that simple.

'Every dollar spent on shark products votes for the fisheries to continue so if we can stop the flow of money for shark then the problem gets sorted.

'People need to be educated and read labels too. Skin care products and lipsticks have shark products in them and there are other options that don't people need to be informed and choose the right products.'

Sharkwater: Extinction, which runs for 88 minutes, is a squeal to Stewart's 2006 film, Sharkwater, which brought the issue of shark finning used in shark fin soup to the forefront.

Sharkwater: Extinction, which runs for 88 minutes, is a squeal to Stewart's 2006 film, Sharkwater, which brought the issue of shark finning used in shark fin soup to the forefront

In one shot, Stewart is seen swimming with a hammerhead wearing a pair of swimming trunks and no protective gear

Today more than 90 countries have banned shark finning or the trade of shark products but the movie highlights that there is still work to be done. Above, Stewart seen diving with a lemon shark

His new release is currently playing in Canada, with upcoming screenings in Vancouver and Ottawa.

It is also touring around the U.S. and Europe, with it premiering in the UK at the Totnes Film Festival on November 17.

Today more than 90 countries have banned shark finning or the trade of shark products but the movie highlights that there is still work to be done.

Allen concluded: 'We estimate that shark populations around the world have dropped by over 90 per cent in the past few decades.

'At this rate within our lifetime we will see oceans without sharks.

'And that is basically like a world without water, or forests without trees. They are vital to the health of the oceans. Without them, we all die.'

A fund has been set up in Rob Stewart's memory, with proceeds going to WWF Canada in order to continue his conservation work. For those wishing to donate, please visit wwf.ca

====== 1061 ========

BRITANNIA IS RATED THE WORST HOTEL CHAIN FOR SIXTH YEAR RUNNING BY WHICH?

Britannia Hotels has been rated as the worst UK hotel chain for the sixth year running in an annual survey by Which?

And shocking images taken by the consumer group at one Britannia property underscore why the firm fared so badly - they show stained walls and carpets, grubby towels and chairs stuck together with tape.

The Old English Inn chain is second bottom and the Radisson Park Inn brand is third bottom, while Premier Inn is top for the fourth year running.

Britannia Hotels has been named as the worst hotel chain for a sixth year running by consumer group Which? Pictured is Britannia's Royal Albion Hotel in Brighton, where Which? investigators stayed

Which? researchers who stayed at the Royal Albion Hotel found paint and wallpaper peeling off the walls, left, and a bathroom, right, that looked dilapidated

The investigators from the consumer champion came across crayon marks that had been strewn across a wall

The investigators found a chair in one of the communal areas that had been ripped and was covered in tape, left. Pictured right is a half-eaten salad and empty wine bottle that the Which? investigator said remained outside a neighbouring room throughout the stay

To carry out the study, Which? surveyed 7,812 guests about their stays at UK hotel brands, asking them to assess cleanliness, bedrooms, bathrooms, the beds, food and drink, the communal areas, customer service and value for money.

Most complaints surrounding stays at Britannia properties related to poor customer service (41 per cent) and poor quality of rooms (41 per cent), followed by cleanliness (32 per cent) and quality of food (27 per cent).

The consumer group reported that the terms 'old', 'shabby' and 'outdated' kept coming up time and time again and the chain only scored an overall customer satisfaction score of 35 per cent.

Which? says one guest went as far as to describe the hotel they stayed in as a 'filthy hovel', while another advised prospective guests not to bother and to 'find somewhere else'.

Which? also found that most guests (71 per cent) who made an official complaint to Britannia were dissatisfied with the outcome.

When Which? visited one Britannia location, the grade II listed Royal Albion Hotel on Brighton seafront, it said it found it 'rundown' and 'depressingly shabby and neglected'.

The hotel's website promises to offer 'character and style' but photos taken by a Which? investigator show crayon on the bedroom walls, stained carpets and grubby towels.

Most complaints surrounding stays at Britannia properties related to poor customer service and poor quality of rooms. Pictured is a table in one of the communal areas where empty glasses had been left

During their stay, the investigators found a banister that had chewing gum stuck to it

Britannia's website promises to offer 'character and style'. This image shows a stain on one of the carpets

The Which? researchers found grubby marks on a towel, left, and one on a wall, right

Which? found that most guests (71 per cent) who made an official complaint to Britannia were dissatisfied with the outcome

Other images show taped rips in an armchair, chewing gum stuck to a banister and a half-eaten salad and empty wine bottle that the Which? investigator said remained outside a neighbouring room throughout her stay, which cost £72 for the night including breakfast and dinner.

At the other end of the spectrum, Which? found that pub chains performed better than ever in this year's ranking with Fuller's (75 per cent) and Wetherspoon Hotels (71 per cent) all scoring well above average.

Many guests told Which? that they were especially won over by the central locations of their accommodation and those who had stayed at a Wetherspoon Hotel were left pleasantly surprised and with very little to complain about.

However, Which? says no chain managed to do better than Premier Inn, which is the highest ranked hotel chain for the fourth year in a row.

Guests rated the chain five stars for cleanliness, the comfort of its beds and customer service, with the consumer group adding it was hard to find a guest review that did not describe their stay as 'excellent'.

A table showing the full survey results. In a separate survey of small and medium hotel chains, Young's Hotels was rated top and Village Hotel Club came bottom

When a Which? investigator visited, they said their experience backed up positive reviews of the no-nonsense 'speedy check-in', a 'spacious room' and a 'comfy king-sized bed'.

Coming in second place is Hilton Garden Inn, with a customer satisfaction score of 77 per cent followed by Fuller's (75 per cent), Marriot Renaissance Hotels (73 per cent) and Crowne Plaza (72 per cent).

Which? also carried out a separate survey into small and medium hotel chains.

It found that pub hotel chain Young's Hotel is highest ranked with a customer satisfaction score of 79 per cent.

The worst small to medium chain is named as Village Club Hotels on 65 per cent.

The Which? Travel survey also asked guests to choose the top five things they thought was important from a hotel stay overall.

One in three guests cited value for money and cleanliness (both 76 per cent). Room quality (68 per cent), the comfort of the bed (65 per cent) and customer service (59 per cent) were all very highly regarded, too.

Rory Boland, Which? Travel editor, said: 'Britannia has superb locations, fabulous buildings - but terrible hotels.

'Guests looking for a safe bet, with no nasty surprises, should opt for a no-nonsense option like Premier Inn.

'Anyone looking for a cheap and cheerful hotel could do worse than booking a stay at a Wetherspoon - complete with an added bonus of only a staircase separating you and your bed after a slap-up meal and a glass or two of wine.'

A spokesperson for Old English Inns said: 'Ensuring our guests have a great stay is our top priority and we take customer satisfaction very seriously. We are disappointed by the results of the survey, but welcome the opportunity to hear valuable feedback and to take action from it.'

MailOnline has contacted Britannia Hotels, Radisson and Village Club Hotels for comment.

Simon Jones, managing director Premier Inn and Restaurants, said: 'At Premier Inn we welcome thousands of guests through our doors every day and so we are delighted and overwhelmingly proud that Which? readers have chosen us as their number one for the fourth year running.

'Our thanks go to all the readers who rated us so highly, but also to the people who we wouldn't be able to do this without, our thousands of team members across every one of our hotels and restaurants.

'Whether they are responsible for the spotless rooms, ensuring our beds are the most comfortable, cooking up one of our famous breakfasts, or just a friendly, welcoming smile at the end of a long day. These are the things that our guests and Which? readers tell us they love and that will continue to be at the heart of everything we do.'

====== 1062 ========

INSIDE THE REMOTE ARCTIC TOWN WHERE LOCALS USE WHALE TUSKS AS WALKING STICKS

Walking along a dirt track in the remote Arctic town of Qaanaaq in north west Greenland I pass a man with a bag full of chopped up whale blubber.

He informs me that it's actually the blubber from a narwhal. This is one of the ocean's rarest whales, distinguished by a large tusk that protrudes from its head that has earned it the nickname the 'unicorn of the sea'.

While they are extremely illusive creatures, in the waters surrounding Qaanaaq there is a rich supply of narwhal and it is a prime food source for the largely self-sufficient Inuit community. Everywhere I turn I see evidence of its prominence - and the next man I bump into has a walking stick fashioned out of a narwhal tusk.

A view of the bay in front of Qaanaaq with small icebergs peppering the waters

A Qaanaaq resident shows off his giant narwhal tusk (left), while another local sports a walking stick fashioned out of one (right)

A male narwhal feeding on bait fish. This whale has been nicknamed the 'unicorn of the seas'

Another local I see shows me narwhal intestines drying on his washing line.

The dried guts are often used to make clothing as the tough material is waterproof, making it perfect for the harsh environment.

Just as I walk away, he nips inside his wooden porch and proudly comes back out with a giant narwhal tusk well over 6ft long.

On a previous expedition to the high Arctic I tried some narwhal, which was prepared in the traditional Inuit way with a piece of blubber and skin cut from the carcass.

A local man and woman perform a traditional dance outside the little museum in Qaanaaq wearing seal fur jackets, which offer the ultimate protection in the cold

The remote town of Qaanaaq was established in the winter of 1953 when the United States expanded an airbase in an area nearby and forcibly relocated the population

The local delicacy - known as muktuk - was a little difficult to swallow, with the pink and grey chunk having a rubbery-elastic texture.

While it wasn't to my liking, seal and whale blubber is a necessity for those living in the Arctic wilds as it is an extremely rich source of vitamin C and oily fats.

The locals use every part of every animal that they hunt, as the next couple I come across underscore.

A local man and woman perform a traditional dance outside the little museum in Qaanaaq wearing seal fur jackets, which offer the ultimate protection in the cold.

The man also sports a pair of polar bear trousers, while the lady wears traditional kamik boots lined with the same fur.

Along with seals and whale, the land mammals are also hunted with a quota enforced by the Greenland government to ensure the population stays buoyant in the light of climate change.

Pauline Kristiansen and Aleqatsiaq Peary are the ancestors of American polar explorer Robert Peary (left). The town of Qaanaaq is home to around 620 residents (right) and is close to the Canadian Arctic

The colourful blue church in Qaanaaq where a male choir rehearses and performs and ceremonies take place

Again, no piece of the animal is wasted and I'm told that the little bone that the lady is dancing with is in fact a polar bear penis bone.

The man who tells me this is none other than Aleqatsiaq Peary, the great-great-great grandson of American polar explorer Robert Peary, who it's claimed was the first person to arrive at the North Pole in 1909.

Peary and his expedition companion, Matthew Henson, both fathered children with Inuit women and the late Harvard professor Dr Allen Counter dedicated his career to tracing the lineage.

Aleqatsiaq's English is incredibly good. He tells me he watched lots of films growing up in a bid to teach himself.

The smiley 35-year-old, who has a wicked sense of humour, seems to be quite the man about town. I see him later at the church singing in the male voice choir and walking down the main street with his 83-year-old grandmother, Pauline, afterwards.

Aleqatsiaq Peary singing in the male voice choir (left), and his great-great-great grandfather Robert E. Peary pictured in 1906 (right). The American polar explorer claimed he was the first person to arrive at the North Pole in 1909

The colourful houses in Qaanaaq stand out amid the stark scenery

The octogenarian is the granddaughter of Peary and like her grandson, she has an infectious smile.

Aleqatsiaq, who lived in mainland Denmark for a short time and also in south Greenland, says he would never leave the remote town of Qaanaaq - which was established in the winter of 1953 when the United States expanded an airbase in an area nearby and forcibly relocated the population.

The town - home to 620 people - provides him with all he needs, he said.

'I feel glad the explorer Peary brought me here,' he muses. 'I think this especially when I eat the local food. I love fermented seal. We take out the intestines and bury it in the ground for months before digging it up.

'I used to hunt a lot but now I have Parkinson's so it makes it more difficult. That's why I love music and singing.'

While I'm not sure if I could stomach the local food in Qaanaaq, the environment is more to my liking. The place exudes a quiet calm that gets under your skin.

Bidding the place a goodbye, I make a pact to return one day, if only to hear the haunting sound of the wonderful male voice choir once more.

====== 1063 ========

THE CHEAPEST DESTINATIONS FOR A CHRISTMAS MARKET BREAK - AND IT'S RIGA THAT IS BEST VALUE

Riga has been named as the best value destination for Brits heading on a Christmas market break.

A study looked at the prices in 10 European cities taking into account the cost of return flights, B&B accommodation, transfers, two evening meals for two with wine and coffee and festive drinks and snacks at the market.

And it revealed that holidaymakers only have to shell out £499 for two people to enjoy the market in Riga compared to £884 for the same items in Copenhagen.

Research carried out by Post Office Travel Money has revealed that Riga, pictured, is the cheapest place in Europe for Brits heading on a Christmas market break

The research was carried out by Post Office Travel Money as part of its annual Christmas Markets Barometer.

Runner-up for cheapest destination, Prague, registered the biggest year-on-year barometer price fall of 12.2 per cent.

At £592 for the two-night break for two, the Czech capital scored well because it was easily the cheapest city for meals, drinks and other Christmas market staples, while package prices were among the best value of those surveyed.

Another Baltic capital, Tallinn (£606) completed the Eastern European top three although Christmas market visitors can expect to pay almost eight per cent more for a break in the Estonian capital this year.

In fourth place, Berlin (£631) emerged as best value for a festive break in Western Europe in this year's report at £59 cheaper than Lille (£690).

Barometer prices have fallen 9.5 per cent since last year, making Germany's capital £68 cheaper than another German city Munich (£699), which boasts one of Europe's best-known Christmas markets.

A table by Post Office Travel Money showing the break-down of prices to visit 10 European cities for their Christmas markets

A lack of budget-priced packages and an 8.5 per cent rise in the cost of meals and drinks helps to account for the increased cost of a Munich Christmas market break.

In seventh place in the barometer is Budapest on £731, followed by Stockholm (£784), Vienna (£803) and finally Copenhagen.

Andrew Brown of Post Office Travel Money, said: 'Our advice to people planning visits to a Christmas market city is to do their homework carefully before booking. It's well known that tourist staples are cheap in Eastern European cities, but Berlin also looks great value for a Christmas markets break this year and, closer to home, Lille is also a good option.'

Meanwhile, further research by Post Office Travel Money revealed that Berlin and Munich are among five cities where savvy shoppers can also save on designer brands away from the Christmas markets.

Prague, pictured, registered the biggest year-on-year price fall. The Czech capital scored well because it was easily the cheapest city for meals, drinks and other Christmas market staples

Researchers compared the cost of 10 fashion, beauty and high-tech items including Levi's 501 jeans, Ugg boots, a Ralph Lauren shirt, a Clinique lipstick and eye shadow set, an Apple iPad mini, an Apple watch, a GoPro Hero camera, Marc Jacobs Daisy perfume and Calvin Klein CK One fragrance.

And they found that shoppers can slash up to 13.3 per cent off the London cost (£1,619) of the 10 items in Lille (£1,404) and almost as much as that in Vienna, Riga, Berlin and Munich.

PRICE OF TEN DESIGNER ITEMS ACROSS EUROPE London £1,619.00 Lille £1,404.22 -13.3 per cent Vienna £1,451.19 -10.4 per cent Berlin £1.453.45 -10.2 per cent Munich £1,464.86 -9.5 per cent Riga £1,466.26 -9.4 per cent Prague £1,632.94 +0.9 per cent Budapest £1,676.68 +3.6 per cent Stockholm £1,796.84 +11.0 per cent Copenhagen £1,825.94 +12.8 per cent

To add to this, the Post Office found that there are rich pickings to make on individual items in all of the Christmas markets cities except Copenhagen.

Shoppers can slice almost 24 per cent off the London price (£399) of an iPad Mini 4 128GB in Lille (£304) or 17.5 per cent (£329) in Berlin.

Better still, there are savings of over 40 per cent to be made in Lille, Munich, Prague and Riga on a GoPro Hero 7 camera - £379 in London but £194 in Europe (Riga: -48 per cent). In fact, the camera is cheaper in seven of the 10 European cities than in London.

Luxury cosmetic and fragrance brands like Marc Jacobs, Calvin Klein and Clinique also offer UK shoppers significant savings on the Continent.

Marc Jacobs Daisy Eau de Toilette (50ml) costs £55 in London but is 24 per cent cheaper in Prague (£42).

Calvin Klein CK One (50ml) for men costs £29 in London but just over £20 in Vienna – almost 30 per cent less.

Clinique eye shadow palettes and lipsticks are over 11 per cent lower than the London price in Prague, with even bigger savings of 25 per cent or more on the eye shadow in Riga and Vienna.

But it is not all plain sailing when it comes to finding bargains, says Post Office Travel Money's Andrew Brown.

He added: 'Shoppers could come unstuck if they don't check prices carefully before reaching for their wallets. Our research found big price variations across Europe and bargain-hunters could find themselves paying more than in the UK, particularly for fashion items.'

====== 1064 ========

A TUTU-WEARING RHINO IS AMONG THE WINNERS OF THIS YEAR’S COMEDY ANIMAL PHOTO COMPETITION

Mary McGowan from Tampa, Florida, won the overall award and picked up the People's Choice Award and Creatures of the Land award for 'Caught in the Act', a picture of a petrified looking squirrel

A brown bear appears to have had enough, taken by Valterri Mulkahainen in Martinselkonen, Finland

A polar bear looks as if he is the one calling the shots in this picture by Roie Galitz taken in Svalbard, in the Norwegian Arctic

The Creatures of the Air prize went to this picture of an alert looking owl taken in the United States by Shane Keena

Valtteri Mulkahainen called this 'Mother returned from her parents' meeting', taken in the Taiga forest in Finland

The Under the Sea Winner went to Tanya Houppermans for this smiley blue shark taken in Rhode Island on the east coast of the United States

A red squirrel does the splits on a pair of flower stalks, taken by Geert Weggen in Sweden

A moose blows a raspberry at another, taken by Barney Koszalka in frosty Wyoming, USA

A rhino looks like he has a peacock for a tutu, taken by Kallol Mukherjee in Gorumara National Park in West Bengal, India

The winner of the junior prize was Arshdeep Singh for this image of an owl looking surprised in Kapurthala, India

Two grizzly bear cubs look like they are dancing together in Churchill, northern Manitoba, Canada

In Alaska, Jonathan Irish captured this image of a grizzly bear looks like he is drawing drivers' attention to a sign asking them to be careful

Two dusky leaf monkeys look highly animated with their jaws wide open as they fight in Kaeng Krachan, Thailand's largest national park

====== 1065 ========

A SNEAK PEEK AT JFK'S NEW $265M HOTEL IN ITS SPACE AGE TWA TERMINAL

It's been years in the making but it appears JFK's hotly-anticipated TWA hotel is almost ready for lift off.

An estimated $265 million has been spent on the 512-room property housed with the space age TWA terminal, which was built in 1962 by business magnate Howard Hughes and has remained dormant since 2001.

Last month, a 1950s plane was transported to the site, where it will welcome guests on board as a stationary cocktail bar and new photos show how the overall development is coming along.

An estimated $265 million has been spent on the 512-room property housed with the space age TWA terminal, which was built in 1962 by business magnate Howard Hughes and has remained dormant since 2001. Above, a rendering of what the finished building will look like

A mock-up hotel room gives a taste of what guests can expect. It shows smart retro-styled fixtures and fittings, with walnut wood panelling adding to the old-school glamour

Keeping noise to a minimum, the hotel has been fitted with huge triple-glazed windows

Its creators, Mcr and Morse Development, are gearing up for a spring 2019 opening.

A mock-up hotel room gives a taste of what guests can expect.

It shows smart retro-styled fixtures and fittings, with walnut wood panelling and brushed brass adding to the old-school glamour.

In the bathrooms, polished stone floors and a monochrome tiling theme completes the slick look.

There will also be artwork in the rooms, harking back to the 1960s and guests can make unlimited free international and local calls on vintage-style rotary phones.

To help guests get in the holiday swing of things, each room will feature a cocktail bar with ingredients to rustle up an array of libations.

The hotel's creators, Mcr and Morse Development, are gearing up for a spring 2019 opening. Above, the lobby area

In the bathrooms, polished stone floors and a monochrome tiling theme completes the slick look

Guests can make unlimited free international and local calls on vintage-style rotary phones (left), while there will be handy USB sockets by the bed for charging devices (right)

Behind the beds there will be desk areas so that guests can work from their rooms

Or if they fancy an expert touch, they can head to one of the hotel's eight bars.

The quirky Lockheed Constilation plane cocktail lounge will be positioned on the tarmac between the TWA hotel and Terminal 5.

On the food front, there will be six restaurants within the complex but there is no word on what types of cuisine will be on offer.

And for fitness fanatics, there will be a 10,000-square-foot gym within the complex with yoga, spinning and other classes on offer.

Moving up to the roof, there will be an observation deck and swimming pool, so guests can soak up views of the runway while having a dip.

In the bathrooms, polished stone floors and a monochrome tiling theme completes the slick look

A photo of one of the hotel amenity bags, with a range of themed toiletries included

Last month, a 1950s Lockheed Constilation plane was transported to the site, where it will welcome guests on board as a stationary cocktail bar. It will be positioned on the tarmac between the TWA hotel and Terminal 5

Photos show that the huge lobby area is pretty much complete, with red carpeting laid down and a museum area detailing the terminal's history

Photos show that the huge lobby area is pretty much complete, with red carpeting laid down and a museum area detailing the terminal's history.

The original clock and split-flap information board remain in place.

Keeping noise to a minimum, the hotel boasts huge panes of triple-glazed glass.

The outside wall of the building features 2,055 panels of glass, with each one weighing 1,740 pounds.

It's projected that the 200,000-square-foot hotel will receive 10,000 customers a day when it opens early next year.

Keeping noise to a minimum, the hotel boasts huge panes of triple-glazed glass

The outside wall of the building features 2,055 panels of glass, with each one weighing 1,740 pounds

The terminal's transformation into a hotel has involved 22 government agencies and more than 135 construction and design firms have worked on the project

It's projected that the 200,000-square-foot hotel will receive 10,000 customers a day when it opens early next year

It is connected to JFK Terminal 5 via tube-like walkways, once traversed by Leonardo DiCaprio in the 2002 aviation -themed film, Catch Me If You Can.

All of the terminals are then accessible via the airport Airtrain.

Tyler Morse, the CEO of Mcr and Morse Development, says the 1960s theme will transport visitors back to the golden age of travel.

He added: 'From the moment guests and visitors arrive at the TWA Hotel, they will find themselves immersed in the ethos of 1962's rich culture, architecture, sights, sounds and ambiance.

'The attention to the smallest of details permeates the entire guest room experience, paying homage to the magnificent landmark and special time in American history.'

The TWA terminal was designated a New York City landmark in 1994 and, after its closure in 2001, was listed on the National and New York State Registers of Historic Places in 2005.

Its transformation into a hotel has involved 22 government agencies and more than 135 construction and design firms have worked on the project.

Room entryways will be signposted with brass signs and stone shelves (left), while the retro TWA terminal clock remains in places as an original features (right)

====== 1066 ========

MAPS SHOW FINLAND, NORWAY AND ICELAND ARE THE SAFEST PLACES BUT LIBYA AND AFGHANISTAN ARE RISKIEST

Libya, Afghanistan and Somalia are the most dangerous places on earth, according to a new map designed for travellers that alerts them to risks abroad.

The interactive 'Travel Risk Map' for 2019 reveals the countries where travellers are most likely to have trouble when it comes to road safety, security and medical matters.

Nordic countries Finland, Norway and Iceland have been labelled the safest places on the map.

This map, by International SOS and Control Risks, shows the places most likely to put your health at risk. Low risk countries are marked in green, medium in yellow, high in orange, very high in red and those that have a 'rapidly developing variable risk', such as Brazil and Russia, are marked in light brown

The map has been launched by medical and security specialists International SOS and Control Risks.

Libya, Afghanistan, Somalia and Syria all ranked lowly in each of the three categories, meaning they are the most dangerous.

At the opposite end of the ranking, Norway, Finland and Iceland all were deemed to have a low risk of medical problems, security and road safety issues, meaning they are the safest.

When looking at health, countries with a highest risk of contracting medical issues or disease included the African countries South Sudan, Niger, Ivory Coast and Sierra Leone.

Iraq was also labelled a high risk country when it came to health along with Lebanon, Venezuela and North Korea.

In contrast, places with a low risk of disease were deemed to be the vast majority of those in Europe as well as Canada, the US, New Zealand and Japan.

This map shows which countries have the highest and lowest security risks, with those that have an insignificant risk marked in light green, 'low' risk countries are marked in yellow, medium in brown, high in red and extreme, such as Libya, in dark red

Brazil, China and Russia are all deemed to have 'rapidly developing variable risk' when it comes to health.

In terms of security, countries with an extreme risk to safety are Afghanistan, Syria, Yemen, Libya, Somalia, South Sudan and Mali.

Popular holiday destinations including Mexico, parts of the Caribbean and parts of India were labelled as having a high risk to safety.

But places where security risks are deemed insignificant are Denmark, Switzerland, Slovenia, Iceland, Greenland and Finland.

When it comes to road safety, the countries beside those in Africa that pose the greatest risk include Brazil, Bolivia, Saudi Arabia, Iran and Kazakhstan. In this category the U.S scores a 'moderate' ranking.

This map shows countries categorised according to road safety risks, with very low marked in pale pink, low in very light brown, moderate in a slightly darker shade and high and very high risk countries picked out using even darker browns

Most of Europe is ranked as 'very low' or 'low', along with Japan, Australia and New Zealand.

Alongside the Travel Risk Map, the Ipsos MORI 'Business Resilience Trends Watch 2019', also found that 43 per cent of business travellers expect travel risks to increase in 2019.

This is down from 52 per cent predicting risk increase in 2018 and 57 per cent in 2017.

Sally Napper, security specialist at International SOS and Control Risks commented: 'While almost half of decision makers believe that travel risks will increase next year, our research reveals that the evolving travel habits of the modern workforce are being overlooked by many organisations.

'Ensuring your policies stay relevant to the needs of a modern workforce helps to keep your people safer and better informed, and also demonstrates the continuing importance of adaptive risk management programmes - and could help win board approval and support for other initiatives.'

====== 1067 ========

YOURS FOR $10.75M! PRIVATE APARTMENT ATOP OF A FOUR SEASONS HOTEL BOASTS A WINE CELLAR

There's no need to check out of this hotel suite, as it's up for grabs as a permanent apartment.

The three bedroom abode, which spans the 44th and 45th floors of the Four Seasons in Denver, is part of a private residential complex owned by the hotel firm and it recently hit the market for a hefty $10.75 million (£8.4 million).

Along with breathtaking views of the Colorado capital and to the mountains beyond, the home - unit 4450 - boasts a state-of-the-art wine cellar, with a hot tub, sauna and gym also on the site.

There's no need to check out of this hotel suite, as it's up for grabs as a permanent apartment

The three bedroom abode, which sits on the top of the Four Seasons in Denver, is part of a private residential complex owned by the hotel firm and it recently hit the market for a hefty $10.75 million (£8.4 million). Along with breathtaking views, the home - unit 4450 - boasts a state-of-the-art wine cellar, with a hot tub, sauna and gym also on the site.

An exterior view of the Four Seasons Denver Private Residences, which sit on top of the main hotel

All of the Four Seasons Denver Private Residences come with various perks including access to two fitness centers, year-round use of an outdoor saltwater pool and spa facilities.

There is also a private car that can be used by residents, with a separate lobby area and dedicated concierge staff.

Interior shots of the modern apartment show how the rooms are generously proportioned with lots of space to entertain.

One of the lounge areas boasts a floating staircase and large fireplace, while floor-to-ceiling windows are a running feature throughout the apartment.

The kitchen features contemporary cupboard units and an island with an integrated stove top and sink

The bathrooms boast free standing tubs next to the windows, so bathers can soak up the views and luxury touches include sparkling chandeliers and marble detailing

One of the lounges has a cosy feel, with a dark blue ceiling and couches positioned facing a flatscreen TV

The bathrooms have free-standing tubs next to the windows, so bathers can soak up the views and luxury touches include sparkling chandeliers and marble detailing.

Moving outside, there are balconies running around the condominium.

Some terraces areas are carpeted with artificial grass, while glass barriers mean the views are not blocked.

The Four Seasons residential complex was built in 2010 with this apartment being remodelled from top to bottom in 2016.

Real Estate broker Stan Kniss told the Denver Post that the owner invested $2 million (£1.56 million) in the refit.

Much of the budget was allocated to installing new technology.

One of the lounge areas boasts a floating staircase and large fireplace, while floor-to-ceiling windows are a running feature throughout the apartment

The Four Seasons residential complex was built in 2010 with this apartment being remodelled from top to bottom in 2016

Moving outside, there are balconies running around the condominium. Some terraces areas are carpeted with artificial grass, while glass barriers mean the views are not blocked

The apartment's current owner invested $2 million (£1.56 million) in a refit. Much of the budget was allocated to installing new technology

The apartment now features automatic window blinds and a wireless home sound system.

Kniss revealed that there is also state-of-the-art climate control unit, 'which tracks humidity in the room if you have art you need to be mindful of'.

He highlighted that the real perk of the place though, is the staff who are on-call around the clock.

There are around 300 workers on the site.

Kniss concluded: 'The real estate is nice, it's supposed to be. Why it's special is because of the people that work there and take care of the residents.'

One lounge has double doors opening out on to a terrace area. The twinkling cityscape can be seen in the backgrounfd

One of the bathrooms features a sparkling chandelier over the tub (left), while there are more fancy light fittings in the lobby (right)

There is a team of staff servicing the Four Seasons complex around-the-clock

====== 1068 ========

BBC DYNASTIES CREW SAVED EMPEROR PENGUINS DURING ANTARCTIC SHOOT FOR DAVID ATTENBOROUGH SHOW

A BBC film crew saved a group of penguins and their babies on an Antarctic shoot for David Attenborough's new show Dynasties.

This week's episode, which will air on Sunday, tells the story of emperor penguins living in bitter -76F (-60C) conditions.

But the programme's director Will Lawson and cameramen Lindsay McCare and Stefan Christmann came across an unexpected challenge shooting the episode.

They were devastated when they found a group of birds had fallen over the edge of a chasm after a white-out and were trapped with their young.

The crew took a 'unanimous' decision to dig an escape ramp in deadly cold temperatures to save them, which will undoubtedly make for some of the most heart-warming TV of the year.

Crew for the BBC's Dynasties show dug a ramp to save a group of emperor penguins after they became trap in -75F (-60C) conditions

Director Lawson said: 'We opted to intervene passively. Once we'd dug that little ramp, which took very little time, we left it to the birds. We were elated when they decided to use it.

'There's no rule book in those situations. You can only respond to the facts that are right there in front of you.

'As you can imagine, we only show a fraction of the real trauma and difficulty that the animals go through – it was a very hard thing to see.'

There were no other animals for miles - so it was just the birds and the crew.

Lawson added: 'What was unique with this was that the only other animal there was us – nothing else would directly benefit from this. I'm sure some people will have an opinion in the other direction but in my heart of hearts I think we made the right decision.'

In Sunday's episode viewers will see hundreds of endangered emperors grappling with blizzards while going without food for months to protect their eggs.

They were devastated when they found a group of birds had fallen over the edge of a chasm after a white-out and were trapped with their young

The crew took a 'unanimous' decision to dig an escape ramp in deadly cold temperatures to save them

Lawson said: 'Having experienced first hand an element of what they have to endure, I've got the most respect for emperor penguins over any other animal I've ever filmed or encountered.'

The three men spent 11 months at a German research station to film the episode.

It focuses on the survival of the endangered emperor penguins and how they fight through the bitter cold to survive the winter with their babies.

The first episode, Chimpanzee, told the story of David the chimp, a leader of a group of monkeys in West Africa.

But it later emerged he had died seven months after filming after a group of younger male chimps 'jumped him'.

====== 1069 ========

LION AIR PLANE CRASH VICTIM'S FATHER SUES BOEING IN US COURT

An Indonesian father who lost his son in last month's Lion Air plane crash is suing Boeing, alleging that a design flaw in their new aircraft caused the accident.

The father of passenger Dr. Rio Nanda Pratama filed the lawsuit on Wednesday in the Circuit Court of Cook County in Chicago, Illinois - where Boeing is headquartered.

He claims the aviation giant did not adequately warn Lion Air or its pilots of an unsafe design condition in its 737 MAX 8 aircraft.

Lion Air Flight 610 crashed into the Java Sea shortly after take-off from Jakarta on October 29, killing all 189 people on board.

Dr. Rio Nanda Pratama, 26, (right), who died in the Lion Air plane crash last month with his fiance Intan Syari, also 26

Dr. Pratama, 26, was flying home from a conference in Jakarta when the plane crashed.

He was to be married this week, said attorney Curtis Miner of the Florida-based law firm Colson Hicks Eidson, which is representing his father in the wrongful death lawsuit.

His fiance Intan Syari, also 26, was photographed in her wedding dress and professed her love for him on Sunday - the day they were to have been married.

Syari said Pratama had joked before he had left for the conference that if he was late in returning, Syari should take photos in her wedding gown and send them to him.

Intan Syari poses in her wedding dress with a bouquet of flowers on the day of her planned wedding to Dr. Rio Nanda Pratama, who was among 189 people on the Boeing 737 MAX 8 plane who died when it crashed a few minutes after taking off from Jakarta on October 29

'We were just joking at that time,' Syari said. 'He asked me to still wear my wedding gown that he chose for me on our wedding day, put on beautiful makeup and hold a white rose bouquet, take good photos and send them to him.'

She said Pratama was her 'first love' and they started dating 13 years ago.

On Sunday, she went ahead and took photos in the white wedding gown with a white satin head covering and a white rose bouquet in her hand, surrounded by relatives and friends.

'Although I actually feel grief that I cannot describe, I have to smile for you,' Syari wrote on Instagram. 'I should not be sad, I have to stay strong as you always say to me, I love you, Rio Nanda Pratama.'

Indonesian investigators are due to publish a preliminary report on the crash later this month.

US pilots say they were not told about features of a new flight-control system that reportedly is a focus of the investigation into last month's deadly crash in Indonesia. Pictured: Boeing's first 737 MAX 9 jet at the company's delivery centre

Just days ago American pilots claimed Boeing had not told them about a flaw in their 737 MAX jets, which is now reportedly a focus of the investigation.

American pilots say they were not trained in new features of an anti-stall system in the aircraft that differ from previous models of the popular 737.

The automated system is designed to help them avoid raising the plane's nose too high, which can cause the plane to stall, or lose the aerodynamic lift needed to keep flying. The system automatically pushes the nose of the plane down.

But if that nose-down command is triggered by faulty sensor readings - as suspected in the Lion Air crash - pilots can struggle to control the plane, which can go into a dive and perhaps crash, according to a Boeing safety bulletin and safety regulators.

The bulletin included new details on how to stop a runaway series of events from leading to a crash, pilots say.

'It is something we did not have before in any of our training. It wasn't in our books. American didn't have it,' said Dennis Tajer, a 737 pilot and spokesman for the pilots union at American Airlines. 'Now I have to wonder what else is there?'

Jon Weaks, a 737 captain and president of the pilots union at Southwest, said he couldn't recall a similar omission in a Boeing operating manual.

The ill-fated Lion Air flight JT 610 was found in the Java Sea off the coast of Karawang in West Java, Indonesia

'I was not pleased. How could something like this happen? We want to be given the information to keep our pilots, our passengers and our families safe,' he said.

Weaks said he is satisfied that 'we have been given, finally, the correct information.'

The MAX is the newest version of the twin-engine Boeing 737. More than 200 have been delivered to airlines worldwide, including American, Southwest and United.

Boeing Chairman and CEO Dennis Muilenburg said Tuesday that the Chicago-based company remains confident the MAX is a safe airplane. He said Boeing did not withhold operating details from airlines and flight crews.

Divers recover crucial black box with dozens of hours of data as investigators piece together final moments of doomed flight that killed 189 people. That Boeing didn't tell airline pilots about features of a new flight-control system in its 737 MAX is reportedly a focus of the investigation

'We ensure that we provide all of the information that is needed to safely fly our airplanes,' Muilenburg told Fox Business Network.

He said Boeing bulletins to airlines and pilots 'point them back to existing flight procedures' to handle the kind of sensor problem suspected in last month's crash.

A Southwest spokeswoman said the new automated maneuvering system was not included in the operating manual for MAX models.

An American spokesman said the airline was unaware of some new automated functions in the MAX but hasn't experienced nose-direction errors. A United spokesman said Boeing and the FAA do not believe additional pilot training is needed.

The Federal Aviation Administration issued an emergency directive last week to airlines, telling them to update cockpit manuals to include instructions for how pilots can adjust flight controls under certain conditions.

Boeing CEO Dennis Muilenburg is interviewed by Maria Bartiromo, not pictured, during her 'Mornings with Maria Bartiromo' program on the Fox Business Network, in New York, Tuesday, Nov. 13, 2018

'The FAA will take further action if findings from the accident investigation warrant,' the agency said in a statement Tuesday.

John Cox, a former 737 pilot and now a safety consultant to airlines, said Boeing's steps since the crash 'have been exactly correct. They have increased pilot awareness, they have reminded them of the proper procedure to disable (the automatic nose-down action), which stops the problem.'

Indonesian investigators say that the Lion Air Boeing 737 MAX 8 experienced malfunctions with sensors that indicate the angle of the nose on four recent flights, including the fatal one.

The Wall Street Journal reported that U.S. and Indonesian investigators are increasingly focusing on the way that the plane's automated control systems interact.

They are also questioning whether the FAA and Boeing adequately analyzed potential hazards if the systems malfunction and send faulty data to the plane's computers, according to the newspaper.

Lion Air is one of Indonesia's youngest airlines but has grown rapidly, flying to dozens of domestic and international destinations.

====== 1070 ========

PICTURES SHED LIGHT ON VINTAGE TRAIN JOURNEYS THAT NO LONGER EXIST

Whether it was transporting people or goods for business, going by train used to be one of the most convenient ways to travel.

And fascinating vintage images have shown the golden age of the railway on lines from around the world that no longer exist.

The series of pictures form part of a brand new book by Anthony Lambert called Lost Railway Journeys From Around The World.

It charts 33 lines which have been abandoned since the advent of cheaper air travel and better roads.

Among the most famous journeys featured in the book is the deadly Madeira-Mamoré Railroad in Brazil and the former Salzkammergut-Lokalbahn line from Salzburg to Bad Ischl in Austria.

Scroll down to see a selection of the vintage pictures from the astonishing book...

The Madeira-Mamoré Railroad also known as the 'Devil's Railroad' sprung up in Brazil, during the 'rubber boom'. Countless lives were lost during the construction of the railway due to the difficult terrain of the Amazon. Pictured are a group of officials posing beside the railway's first locomotive that had previously been buried in jungle creepers

The former Salzkammergut-Lokalbahn line ran from Salzburg to Bad Ischl in Austria between 1890 and 1957. After leaving Salzburg, the train would travel through meadows, stopping at wayside halts where a red flag denoted waiting passengers. Pictured are passengers stopping for a chat at a stop in Plomberg on the line in 1956

An engine built for the German military in 1939, pulls the Bad Ischl–Salzburg train past the scenic village of St Gilgen in Austria in 1957

The last locomotive purchased by the Virginia & Truckee Railroad shunts freight cars. The locomotive is now displayed at the Nevada State Railroad Museum in Carson City, having been withdrawn from service on 1 October 1948. At its height, the railroad's route ran from Reno to the Nevada state capital at Carson City

A train crosses the Smardale Gill Viaduct on the former trans-Pennine Darlington to Tebay route. Only one line was ever laid on the 14 arch structure across Smardale Gill, which was restored by the Northern Viaduct Trust and is now part of a footpath to a nature reserve

Members of the royal party of the Duke and Duchess of York at Glacier in Canada in 1901 pose on the front of a train on the now defunct Big Hill stretch of the Canada Pacific Railway. It was a challenging part of track as it had a very steep gradient

An intrepid group of men and women on the buffer at the junction of one of the runaway sidings on the Big Hill line in Canada

A train on the former Waverley Edinburgh to Carlisle line pulls into St Boswell station in the Scottish borders. Mail bags can be seen being loaded into the guard's part of the passenger coach

Another train on the Waverley route chugs along Whitrope Siding as it prepares to enter a railway tunnel close to Hawick in the Scottish borders

The Central Australian Railway ran through the 'red centre' of the country from Darwin in the north to Adelaide in the south. Pictured is one of the first trains at Woolshed Flat station between Port Augusta and Quorn, north of Adelaide

Workers lift coal into the engine on the Central Australian Railway. It was a particularly arduous task as the men did not use a crane

The Kettle Valley Railway linked Hope and Midway in British Columbia in Canada but closed in 1989. Pictured is an eastbound train travelling over West Fork Canyon Creek in 1918

The Walhalla Railway in Victoria, Australia sprung up in the 1860s at the time of the Australia gold rush. Pictured are a group of well-dressed men posing for a picture on one of the line's rudimentary viaducts

A train heads up a main street in the city of Encarnación in Paraguay on the former Asucncion to Encarnación line in Paraguay. There has been talk that the line could be reinstated

The Surabaya Steam Tram weaved through the crowded streets of the Indonesian island of Java. The tram would often have to come to a screeching halt due to other vehicles and even pedestrians blocking the track. The service closed in 1978

Steam pours out of the engine of a train travelling past the rugged hills that form the border between Pakistan and Afghanistan. The former Bostan to Fort Sandeman line an through both Pakistan and India from 1917 to 1985. The journey between the two termini took 19 hours as the train only travelled at nine mph

====== 1071 ========

ZIP AND DIP! SUPERYACHT BOASTS A HELICOPTER LANDING SPOT AND GLASS BOTTOMED POOL

A new concept superyacht boasts a glass bottomed pool, with a helicopter landing pad allowing visitors to zip in for a dip if they please.

The SVY Griggio 52-metre Supply Vessel, unveiled by Italian shipyard Rosetti Superyachts, boasts ample space to entertain.

The helicopter landing pad can be transformed into a large beach club-style area and there is a lounge located under the pool, with sunlight streaming through the glass structure.

A new concept superyacht boasts a glass bottomed pool, with a helicopter landing pad allowing visitors to zip in for a dip if they please

The SVY Griggio 52-metre Supply Vessel, unveiled by Italian shipyard Rosetti Superyachts, boasts ample space to entertain

Particulars from Rosetti Superyachts note that the main sundeck 'provides a generous sunbathing area and comes complete with dining services, food lift from the galley and the option of a forward open-air cinema'.

There are more sundecks and relaxation areas on the upper levels, which further 'exploit the outside'.

Moving indoors, there is a main salon with a chaise longue extending the length of the room and two comfortable sofas. Neutral-coloured furnishings give the boat a light and airy feel.

Luxury touches include wood panelling, lengths of marble and polished brass detailing

On the main deck, there is the galley with dedicated access for the crew and a master stateroom. The swanky sea pad houses a walk-in wardrobe, a private study, a bathroom and its own hammam

In the main salon there is a chaise longue extending the length of the room and two comfortable sofas

Neutral-coloured furnishings give the boat a light and airy feel. Luxury touches include wood panelling, lengths of marble and polished brass detailing

On the main deck, there is the galley with dedicated access for the crew and a master stateroom.

The swanky sea pad houses a walk-in wardrobe, a private study, a bathroom and its own hammam.

On the yacht's lower deck, there is accommodation for eight guests in four cabins with double beds or twin singles.

In the front of the lower deck there are berths for the same number of crew, while the captain's cabin is on the upper deck next to the wheelhouse.

A view of the dining area, complete with a modern metal screening and a marble-topped dining table

The helicopter landing pad can be transformed into a large beach club-style area and there is a lounge located under the pool, with sunlight streaming through the glass structure

Many of the rooms have been finished with large wrap-around windows, to maximise sea views.

Along with the glass-bottomed pool, other amenities on the boat include a gym, sauna and steam bath.

The yacht is currently in the concept stage and there is no word on if the designs will become a reality or what the build cost would be.

Preliminary design specs state that the yacht would be powered by two 1080kW engines, achieving a cruising speed of 12 knots or 16 knots when it's at full pelt.

The yacht is currently in the concept stage and there is no word on if the designs will become a reality or what the build cost would be

====== 1072 ========

AMERICAN AIRLINES FLIGHT ATTENDANT FILES LAWSUIT CLAIMING FELLOW STEWARDESS ATTACKED HER ON A FLIGHT

Texas flight attendant Kathy Ida Wolfe (pictured) has filed a lawsuit claiming that a fellow stewardess, Laura Powers, attacked her in front of passengers during a June 2016 American Airlines flight and dragged her down the aisle by her scarf

A Texas flight attendant is suing American Airlines after one of her colleagues allegedly attacked her during a flight and dragged her down the aisle by her scarf.

In the lawsuit obtained by the Dallas Morning News, Kathy Ida Wolfe, 69, claims that Laura Powers 'maliciously dug her fingernails into my arm and slammed the door of a beverage cart on my arm' on a flight in June 2016.

She alleges that Powers, 56, then 'grabbed my scarf, choking me, and dragged me in the aisle and in front of the passengers'.

Wolfe's lawsuit against American and Powers is seeking damages of up to $1million for negligence, dangerous work environment, breach of contract, and assault and battery.

Wolfe, of Irving, said she immediately reported the attack to the captain, other flight attendants and the flight service manager, following company procedure to the letter.

When the airline 'failed to investigate and/or take action to ensure [Wolfe's] safety', she reported the assault and battery to law enforcement, the suit says.

It does not appear that any criminal charges were filed against Powers, who is from Flower Mound.

Wolfe (pictured) filed the suit against American and Powers in federal court on Friday

The suit was originally filed in Tarrant County in June before being refiled in federal court on Friday.

American and Powers each countersuits claiming that they are 'not liable because Plaintiff caused or contributed to' the incident that Wolfe is suing over, according to court records.

American spokesman Matt Miller told the Dallas Morning News that he couldn't comment on the specifics of the lawsuit but said: 'American strives to create a work environment in which all team members feel safe and respected.'

Wolfe and Powers declined requests for comment.

====== 1073 ========

FROM MORNING PRAYERS TO FRESH COFFEE: WHAT 8AM LOOKS LIKE IN DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE WORLD

What does your morning ritual involve? Having a cup of coffee, hitting the snooze button multiple times or plunging into the local lake for a swim?

In a bid to find out how peoples' routines vary around the world, Belgian photographer Pascal Mannaerts ventured to Asia, Africa, Latin America and the Middle East snapping photos as the sun rose.

His candid photo series titled '8am around the world' shows what people get up to in the morning, with antics varying from praying to stretching to farming crops.

He told MailOnline Travel that he wanted to capture the 'amazing morning light' and the 'feeling to start another day in an unknown place, with an open and totally fresh mind'.

The cameraman said he felt 'an even greater closeness to people early in the day', as he saw them before their 'daily activities had taken them into their own universe'. He added that he was especially touched by the 'omnipresent spirituality' that he witnessed at the crack of dawn in India.

Scroll down to catch a glimpse of bleary-eyed citizens of the world, all going about their lives in different ways...

A young boy squints at the camera as enjoys a morning brew in the town of Kyaiktiyo, Myanmar

A group of men wash and brush their teeth before starting the day in a back street in Kolkata, India

A smartly-dressed man poses for the camera and enjoys a cigarette before heading to work in Tokyo, Japan

A young boy appears to be on a morning paper run around the streets of Dhaka in Bangladesh

A woman sits on the floor as she quietly performs some early morning prayers in Yangon, Myanmar

A young boy takes a morning wash down at a river in Kolkata, India, with the sun rising in the distance

A group of young monks perform some morning stretches outdoors in Varanasi, India

A woman smiles as she goes about some early morning chores around the farmlands of Mongolia

A pilgrim gets down on the floor to pray on the streets of Lhasa in Tibet, with her prayer beads laid out before her

A man gets an early morning shave in a small barbers shop tucked away in Jaisalmer, India

A young monk crouches down as his head is given a fresh morning shave in Amarapura, Myanmar

Commuters cram into a subway carriage in Tokyo, Japan, with newspapers and phones to distract them en route

A man smiles as he opens his coffee shop for trade in Nyaung Shwe, Myanmar (left), while a man enjoys a quick smoke before starting his day in Mandalay, Myanmar (right)

A man stares intensely as he carries out early morning prayers in the city of Varanasi, which is regarded to be the spiritual capital of India

A man stocks up on some milky-looking beverages before starting his work day in Jaisalmer, India

This candid shot captures a man lighting some candles as the sun rises in Belur, India

A group of young monks walk in procession through the streets of Mandalay in Myanmar, ready to start their day of religious worship

A group of young boys look to be having lots of fun as they go for an early morning swim in Varanasi, India

A man walks barefooted along a sandy bank as the sun breaks through a shroud of mist in the west African nation of Benin

A group of women make their way to a mosque for morning prayers in Samarkand, Uzbekistan

Crowds gather on the banks of the river Ganga which flows around the city of Varanasi in India. Their colourful outfits make for an eye-catching morning display

A man stands with his eyes closed as the morning sun kisses his body in Jodhpur, India

The morning sun casts an atmospheric glow on the waters around Dhaka in Bangladesh, with locals commuting and ferrying goods around

A woman throws a glance at the camera as she conducts some morning chores in Pangong Tso, a remote basin lake in the Himalayas

Mehrangarh or Mehran Fort, located in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, seen here illuminated by the morning light, is one of the largest forts in India

A group of men read the morning news in the streets of Kathmandu, Nepal, while one man silently prays with his eyes closed

An elderly women lights an incense stick as a new day begins in the northern Indian holy town of Vrindavan

You can find more of Pascal Mannaerts' photography work via Facebook and Instagram

====== 1074 ========

HOTEL CHAIN OFFERS GUESTS AN 'INSTAGRAM SITTER' WHO WILL KEEP THEIR ACCOUNTS UP TO DATE

Holidaymakers who want an online break but can't stand not updating their social media can now hire an 'Instagram sitter' at one hotel chain.

Ibis hotels in Switzerland are offering the quirky free service called 'Relax We Post' until the end of the month.

It will see an 'Instagram sitter' post photos, stories and even reply to comments on behalf of guests who want a social media detox.

Ibis hotels in Switzerland are offering a quirky service called 'Relax We Post' to holidaymakers who want a social media detox but still want to keep their Instagram page up to date

All guests need to do is share their Instagram log-in details and the sitter will make sure the account is updated during their stay.

The service is being offered at 17 hotels in Zurich and Geneva with Ibis saying it aims to 'eliminate the stress of being active on social media from their guests’ holidays without the need to stop guests from posting beautiful photos during their stay.'

The hotel chain has also teamed up with 10 well-known Instagram stars to act as the social media sitters.

They include names such as Anna Maradan, Cristina Gheiceanu, Pascal Erband and Elay Leuthold.

Philippe Alanou, senior VP of operations at AccorHotels Central Europe, said: 'This new service offered by Ibis Switzerland is one of a kind.

The 'Instagram sitters' will post photos, stories and even reply to comments on behalf of guests who want a social media detox

'We pay close attention to current trends and make constant updates to the services at our hotels, ensuring we are able to offer our guests a range of modern, innovative ideas to make their everyday lives easier.

'Relax We Post is part of our mission to ensure hotel guests enjoy unforgettable experiences when they stay with us.'

Last year, the Conrad Hilton Resort on the island of Rangali in the Maldives, introduced Instagram butlers for guests.

These butlers show guests the very best places to take photographs and guide them around 'Instagram Trails', itineraries that take in some of the prime spot for images.

====== 1075 ========

ROME BANS 'SLOVENLY EATING' AND DRESSING UP AS A CENTURION

Pub crawls, dressing as a centurion and drinking in the street will all be permanently banned in Rome under strict new laws designed to 'clean up' the historic city.

Temporary measures including fines for swimming in fountains and eating in restricted areas will also become permanent.

The new laws are part of a crackdown by Rome's council on the unpleasant habits of visitors and locals. Dog fouling, soliciting prostitution and even 'eating in a slovenly fashion' will all carry penalties, The Local reported.

Under the new permanent measures, gladiators caught posing for photos with tourists face fines of up to 400 euros

Mayor Virginia Raggi said: 'After 72 years of waiting, Rome has new urban police regulations. Today is a historic day.'

The police will also be given more powers in the Italian capital and 500 new vigili urbani (city police) will be employed to enforce the local government rules by handing out fines and banning people from certain areas.

For years, the city council in Rome has used various temporary measures in an attempt to improve the capital's cleanliness and reputation.

Rome's Mayor Virginia Raggi called today 'a historic day' as she announced the new laws

The strict ban introduced earlier this year on night-time drinking, which was due to expire in March 2019, has been extended indefinitely.

The drinking of alcohol outdoors is forbidden in glass containers from 10pm and in any container at all from midnight.

A 2am curfew has been imposed from which point no alcoholic drinks can be served at all, including at indoor clubs and bars.

Violation of these laws carries a fine of up to €150 (£130) for those drinking alcohol and €280 (£250) for businesses selling it.

Costumed 'gladiators' were also temporarily handed heavy fines following accusations of 'over-charging, harassing and pick-pocketing unsuspecting tourists', The Local reported.

The recently restored Spanish Steps in Rome are subject to the new laws preventing people from eating on them

The Trevi fountain in particular is known as a hotspot of bad tourist behaviour and people are now permanently forbidden from swimming in it and eating nearby

Under the new permanent measures, gladiators caught posing for photos with tourists face fines of up to 400 euros.

The council is also making permanent the fines imposed earlier this year on also people eating near or climbing on fountains - the Trevi fountain in particular is known as a hotspot of bad tourist behaviour - and other historical sites such as the Spanish Steps.

Italians have been getting fed up in recent years with the 'disgusting' conditions in the capital, and many are in favour of a crackdown on mass tourism.

====== 1076 ========

HOTEL ROOM TINIER THAN A PRISON CELL IS DEEMED ONE OF LONDON'S SMALLEST

Half the size of an average parking space and smaller than a prison cell, a miniature hotel room in London has been outed in a damning investigation.

Consumer insight firm Which? sent undercover reviewers to the Corbigoe Hotel in the borough of Westminster, where they discovered a single room measuring just three square metres and costing up to £55 per night.

Video footage from Which? shows the tunnel-like room, with the bed almost touching both walls and the tiny en-suite where you can wash your hands while sitting on the loo.

Scroll down for video

Consumer insight firm Which? sent undercover reviewers to the Corbigoe Hotel in the borough of Westminster, where they discovered a single room measuring just three square metres. The tiny en suite (right) and the bedroom area (left)

One perk is that there is a window in the room. However, the lookout opens out on to a stairwell, instead of letting fresh air funnel through.

Another plus is that there's a kettle in the room and you can make hot beverages while in bed, given the kitchen appliance's proximity to your feet.

The Which? report notes that online, the hotel's small single is listed as five square metres.

But when its investigators visited with a tape measure, they found that the bedroom sized up at just three square metres - meaning 40 per cent of the listed space is occupied by the bathroom.

Another plus is that there's a kettle in the room and you can make hot beverages while in bed, given the kitchen appliance's proximity to your feet

The report notes: 'To put it into the context, the small single (bedroom and bathroom combined) is less than half the size of the average UK parking space (11.5 square metres).

'It's also smaller than the recommended minimum for a UK prison cell (7 square metres).'

A single room at the Corbigoe Hotel costs £30 in the low season, from November to March, and £55 in the high season from April to October.

While the inn has a pretty generous 5.1 review rating on Booking.com, 63 per cent of guests have rated it 'terrible' on TripAdvisor.

Derek H from Ireland wrote after his stay in September: 'Hands down the worst hotel I have ever stayed in. Like stepping back in time and not in a retro way.

A single room at the Corbigoe Hotel costs £30 in the low season, from November to March, and £55 in the high season from April to October

'Noisy, rude staff and £2 (cash I might add) to leave your bags in a room for the day.

'One towel between two of us, holes in the door, bathroom door too small for a normal sized person to fit into, shower up to my shoulder. The list goes on.'

Floyd S echoed these sentiments, writing: 'If you are looking for a poorly run 70s themed hotel this is the place for you!

'All jokes aside this hotel is terrible, its dirty and smells , the room was small with a holes in the wall and light fittings missing.'

MailOnline Travel has contacted the hotel and is currently awaiting a request for comment.

Commenting on the rise of micro hotel rooms Which? travel editor Rory Boland, said: 'Hotels need to be completely upfront with customers about just how small their rooms are at the time of booking, so guests don't unexpectedly find themselves in a shoebox.

While the inn has a pretty generous 5.1 review rating on Booking.com, 63 per cent of guests have rated it 'terrible' on TripAdvisor

'Micro hotel rooms can be great for a short stay, but don't assume you're always getting a micro price.

'In truth, you'll probably find a more spacious stay nearby for a better price'.

The Which? report highlights that hotel rooms have been shrinking in recent years, 'especially in city centres where rates are high'.

Both Premier Inn and Hilton recently announced plans to launch their own micro hotel brands, while Premier Inn will slash room sizes in half for its 'zip pods'.

Meanwhile, rival brand easyHotel already charges a supplement if you want your room to come with a TV (from £5), or even a window.

====== 1077 ========

NEW YORK STREETS AND LANDMARKS IN 2018 COMPARED TO THE FORTIES

Stunning images of a series of well-known streets and landmarks in New York City as they appeared in the 1940s have been released.

As part of a special project, Dailymail.com took exact images of several locations to compare what the Big Apple looked like almost 80 years ago in contrast to what it looks like now.

The New York City Department of Records and Information Services organizes and stores records and information from the City Hall Library and Municipal Archives.

The archives are so vast that it has taken some time to digitize all of the material. And now they have just released a staggering 720,000 images online.

The Department's latest trawl brings their 1940s tax photos online, which were taken by the City’s property tax office as part of an assessment process.

All in all, they show 'every house and building in the five boroughs' from the decade, according to a department spokesman.

Here are a selection of just a few of the more famous New York City sights and viewers may find that , apart from a couple of additional glistening buildings and shopfronts, not much has changed in terms of the city's infrastructural layout.

People can visit nycma and follow the instructions to view more images.

‹ Slide me › It has been the location of many famous movies over the years and viewers will notice that the Plaza hotel - located on 724-726 Fifth Avenue - has not changed much in November 2018 (left) compared to how it appeared in the forties (right)

‹ Slide me › Apart from international high-end retailers taking up residence in the world's most sought-after real estate location, 720 Fifth Avenue still largely looks the same in 2018 (left) compared to how it appeared in the forties

‹ Slide me › A general view of Mott street in New York City's Chinatown district in 2018 (left) compared to the 1940s (right)

‹ Slide me › Union Square is anchored by its namesake pedestrian plaza and park which attracts a mix of professionals, street artists and protesters. A general view of 22 Union Square shows that the layout is roughly the same after almost 80 years

‹ Slide me › There may be a new subway station, but Mulberry street and its junction with Bleecker Street doesn't seem to have changed drastically

‹ Slide me › Number one Flatbush Avenue in Brooklyn was home to piano shop and opticians in the 1940s (right), but now it is the location of a new development comprising commercial and residential units (left)

‹ Slide me › Delancey Street is one of the main thoroughfares of New York City's Lower East Side. One can see how it looks now (left) compared to how it looked over eighty years ago (right)

‹ Slide me › A general view of 120-130 West 42 Street as it appears now (left) versus the 1940s (right). 42nd street has held a special place in the hearts of New Yorkers and visitors since at least the turn of the 20th century

‹ Slide me › 104-106 Bowery in 2018 (left) compared to the forties (right). Since the 1990s the entire Lower East Side has been in a period of revival. Since July 2005, gentrification is contributing to ongoing change along the Bowery

‹ Slide me › Delancey Street on the Lower East Sign remains a major commercial destination as can be seen from these images

‹ Slide me › The corner of East 13 Street as it intersects with Avenue A remains almost identical compared to how it appeared in the forties

‹ Slide me › Children seen standing outside a corner shop at 312 Flatbush avenue in the forties (right)in contrast to young friends walking hurriedly across the street with their obligatory takeout coffees (left)

‹ Slide me › A man with a horse and cast outside 234 Mulberry Street when they were still a means of transportation around Manhattan (right). The sight compares with the pretty boutiques and restaurants that now line the popular street in Lower Manhattan

‹ Slide me › A DoubleTree Hilton hotel is now located at 8 Stone Street in the heart of the Financial District (left), compared to a number of restaurants that lined the small cobbled street in the forties (right)

‹ Slide me › A popular cocktail bar is now located on the corner of St Marks Place and 1st Avenue in the East Village (left). NYC's first elevated railway line ran along St Marks back in the 1940s (right) but the line was dismantled soon after that

‹ Slide me › A view of 190 Bleeker Street as it appears now (right) versus convenience stores that lined it in the forties

‹ Slide me › An aesthetically pleasing red building can today be found at 16 Bank Street (left) in Greenwich Village compared to old residential buildings that lined the street in the 1940s (right). The most expensive real estate in NYC is now located here

‹ Slide me › A new development is now being built at this site on Kenmare Street (left) on the Lower East Side. In the forties an auto repair station was located here (right)

‹ Slide me › The times may have changed but this spot at Bowery still remains a hive of activity in the Lower East Side

‹ Slide me › St Marks Place is one of the shortest streets in New York City, but its vibrant history stretches back to the city’s early colonial days. Many of its buildings have been used as exterior scenes for sitcoms and music albums

‹ Slide me › 20-22 Union Square is one of few buildings in NYC that have remained the same over the years with a savings bank still located here

‹ Slide me › 261 Mulberry street is now home to a popular brunch restaurant (left) while it was a residential building in the forties (right)

‹ Slide me › A general view of 22 Whitehall Place in the city's Financial District as it appears now and in the 1940s

‹ Slide me › An old-fashioned diner was located on the corner of Essex street as it intersects with Grand Street in the forties (right). The site is now a residential building as the population of New York continues to grow

====== 1078 ========

PARIS CONSIDERS BANNING CARS FROM ITS HISTORIC CENTRE - INCLUDING AROUND THE LOUVRE AND NOTRE DAME

The Mayor of Paris hopes to pedestrianise the city centre and swap vehicles for electric shuttles in the fight against pollution, a member of her team said yesterday.

Traffic would be heavily restricted in Paris's first four arrondissements, and replaced by more environmentally friendly self-driving buses, according to a source close to Mayor Anne Hidalgo.

The proposed car-free zone would encompass famous landmarks such as the Louvre museum and Notre Dame Cathedral.

The proposed car-free zone would encompass famous landmarks such as the Louvre museum (pictured) and Notre Dame Cathedral

Traffic would be heavily restricted in Paris's first four arrondissements including around the Notre Dame cathedral (pictured) to be replaced by more environmentally friendly self-driving buses

The plan would be part of Hidalgo's 'next term', the source said, explaining it could be implemented after 'in-depth studies, in consultation' with all parties.

A proposal along these lines will be presented at the next municipal council meeting in each of the four districts.

Her team member's comments come days after a court ruled in favour of a car-free promenade by the river Seine following a legal challenge.

Mayor Hidalgo's team member's comments come days after a court ruled in favour of a car-free promenade by the river Seine (pictured) following a legal challenge

However, Hidalgo first wants to expand a car-free scheme known in French as 'Paris respire' - or 'Paris breathes' - which sees certain districts pedestrianised on the first Sunday of each month.

She hopes it can be extended to every Sunday by 2019.

Hidalgo has long been an advocate of cleaner air solutions and believes the best way to boost air quality is simply to reduce the number of cars on Paris's streets.

An electric driverless shuttle produced by EasyMile drives, as part of an experiment, in Paris, Friday, Nov. 17, 2017. The full-electric autonomous vehicle is made by French company EasyMile, one of multiple French driverless car projects

Anne Hidalgo, who became Paris mayor in 2014 is spearheading 'Paris breathes' to combat air pollution

In March, she announced she would commission a study into free city-wide public transport and is currently pushing to create new, safer bike lanes.

She is also the chair of C40 Cities - a global group of cities who have joined forces to measure emissions and committed to finding new ways to reduce them.

Last year, it was announced that a ban on diesel vehicles, which produce more toxic fumes than petrol motors, will come into effect in 2024 - the year Paris will host the summer Olympic games.

Individuals were offered up to €6,000 (£5,300) in subsidies to swap their diesel cars for cleaner models.

Hidalgo, who became mayor in 2014, has not yet formally indicated whether she will stand for re-election in 2020.

====== 1079 ========

ABANDONED VILLAGE IN NEW ZEALAND GOES UP FOR SALE FOR £1.4MILLION

If you're a millionaire looking for somewhere suitable to sit out the apocalypse - this abandoned village in New Zealand could be just the job.

It is made up of eight houses, a main lodge and a restaurant and is on the market for £1.4million (NZ$2.7million/$1.8million).

Lake Waitaki Village, located on the South Island, sprung up in the 1930s to accommodate workers at a nearby dam. Over 40 families moved to the village but by 1989 they had all moved out because the dam system became automated and the workers were no longer needed.

Lake Waitaki Village on New Zealand's South Island, which was abandoned 30 years ago but is now up for sale for £1.4million (NZ$2.7million)

The village first sprung up in the 1930s to accommodate all the workers from a nearby dam and at one point over 40 families lived there

After the dam became automated and the workers were no longer needed, residents began to move away from Lake Waitaki Village and by 1989, it was totally abandoned

The main lodge property in the village, which houses owner accommodation, a restaurant and a billiards room

Whoever snaps up the village will be the owner of the 14 hectares that Lake Waitaki Village covers

One Agency, which is marketing the property, says it has had 'heaps of interest' from potential buyers

A plan showing the 14 hectares of land that the buyer of the village will own. The lakeside hamlet is close to a number of ski fields

Now, after lying abandoned for almost 30 years, the 14 hectare hamlet looks set to be snapped up - the estate agent marketing it said it has had 'heaps of interest'.

It could be that the heaps of interest are coming from millionaires and billionaires looking for a safe haven in the event of the collapse of civilisation.

After all, it was reported earlier this year that billionaire venture capitalist and PayPal co-founder Peter Thiel bought a 477-acre former sheep station in the South Island and that Silicon Valley businessman Sam Altman would fly to it with him in the event of the world economic system collapsing.

Of course, the caveat attached to buying Lake Waitaki Village is that you'd need to be a native Kiwis. Foreign buyers have been banned from buying existing residential homes that New Zealanders could otherwise purchase and live in.

The ban came into force earlier this year to encourage more home ownership in the country. Mr Thiel, it turns out, had bought New Zealand citizenship.

Those with their paperwork in order may be interested to learn that the main lodge property at Lake Waitaki Village has bedrooms, a reception area, billiards room and a formal lounge, while the houses all have three bedrooms.

There is also a nine-bay car parking garage.

The restaurant, meanwhile, is decorated in mahogany detailing and boasts a full commercial kitchen.

The formal lounge and restaurant inside the main lodge in the village, which is decked out in mahogany

The bar area of the restaurant that is also part of the sale. The listing says much of the infrastructure is already in place to transform the village into a resort or conference venue

The main lodge has a full commercial kitchen meaning any buyers could easily start up a restaurant or cafe business

Lake Waitaki Village is in close proximity to a number of ski fields and the listing says that the lakeside village is in a 'pristine New Zealand holiday location.'

Kelli Milmine from the One Agency, who is listing the property, says that potential buyers have been interested in turning the village into a commune for extended family, a holiday resort and even a winery.

She told MailOnline Travel: 'We have had many enquiries, and there are multiple parties looking into all of the detail.'

One of the bedrooms inside the lodge, which is 585 square metres and has recently been refurbished

Potential buyers have told the agency marketing the village that they would like to transform it into a holiday resort or winery. Pictured is one of the bedrooms in the main lodge

====== 1080 ========

FIRST EVER UNDERSEA VILLA OPENS AT CONRAD MALDIVES RANGALI ISLAND

Guests at the Conrad Maldives Rangali Island now have the chance to sleep with the fishes - but there's nothing at all sinister about it.

That's because the swanky resort has opened what is believed to be the world's first-ever undersea villa - and images show that it's going to be one of the most sought-after hotel rooms in the world. For the super-rich, that is - it's $50,000 (£38,000) a night.

It's a two-deck affair, with the lower deck sitting five meters (16ft) beneath the waves. It has a bedroom, living space and bathroom and, of course, swathes of glass so that guests can gaze at the colourful local sea life swimming past, wherever they are in the complex.

Guests at the Conrad Maldives Rangali Island now have the chance to sleep with the fishes - but there's nothing at all sinister about it. That's because the swanky resort has opened what is believed to be the world's first-ever undersea villa

Soak up unique views: Even in the bathroom guests can gaze at the Indian Ocean

An aerial image of Rangali Island in the Maldives, where the residence is located

The suite, named the Muraka, has cost $15million to build and will give guests unparalleled views of the Indian Ocean.

The residence was designed by architects the Crown Company and was built by New Zealand-based M J Murphy Limited, which specialises in aquarium technology.

The undersea suite is connected to the top deck by a spiral staircase.

Guests will be able to gaze at the endless horizon while soaking in the standalone bathtub up top

The relaxation deck that faces the direction of sunrise. There is, of course, also an infinity pool

Up top, guests will find a twin-size bedroom, bathroom, powder room, gym, butler’s quarters, private security quarters, integrated living room, kitchen, bar and a dining room with a deck that faces the direction of the sunset.

On the opposite side of the villa sits a relaxation deck that faces the direction of sunrise and an infinity swimming pool.

The upper level also contains an additional king-size bedroom and bathroom, which boasts an ocean-facing bathtub, ideal for soaking in views of the endless horizon.

In total, Muraka can accommodate up to nine guests.

Ahmeed Saleem, the chief designer of the residence, said: 'Driven by our inspiration to deliver innovative and transformative experiences to our global travellers, the world’s first undersea residence encourages guests to explore the Maldives from an entirely new perspective below the surface of the sea.'

Visit www.conradmaldives.com for more information

====== 1081 ========

THE NATIONAL TRUST 2019 HANDBOOK PHOTO COMPETITION WINNERS ARE REVEALED

A photograph of a young boy bounding over rocks at Prawle Point in South Devon will star on the cover of the 2019 National Trust Handbook, and be seen by the charity's five million members, following a competition to find new imagery for the annual guide.

Ed Silvester, a Trust member who lives in High Wycombe, won the contest with the energetic shot of his 10-year-old son.

One of the judges was gardener, broadcaster and writer Alan Titchmarsh, who explained that the pictures 'fuel a sense of pride in our countryside, landscapes and buildings'.

Ed Silvester, a Trust member who lives in High Wycombe, won the contest with this energetic shot of his 10-year-old son bounding over Prawle Point in South Devon

A second image was chosen to adorn the charity's member cards. Brian Terrey's sun rising on a misty morning at Corfe Castle in Dorset took the top spot, ahead of thousands of other entries

John Joyce took this dramatic photo of the Sycamore Gap Tree or Robin Hood Tree, which stands next to Hadrian's Wall near Crag Lough in Northumberland

Jay Birmingham captured a blanket of mist whirling around Winnats Pass in the Peak District

A second image was chosen to adorn the charity's member cards. Brian Terrey's sun rising on a misty morning at Corfe Castle in Dorset took the top spot, ahead of thousands of other entries.

The handbook is an invaluable tool for planning days out at the 500 historic houses and gardens and 250,000 hectares of coast and countryside looked after by the Trust.

This year, the National Trust asked for entries to be focused around the theme 'our space to explore'.

The winning images needed to show a connection to nature, reflecting the work that the conservation charity does to care for special outdoor places.

There were more than 7,500 photos entered into the competition, which was sponsored by Panasonic Lumix.

Claire Evans took this misty woodland shot during a walk around Clent Hills in the West Midlands

Stu Meech took this very atmospheric photo of Corfe Castle in Dorset, showing it sitting in a shroud of mist with a pink-hued sky above

Adrian Potts' artistic shot captures a flurry of colourful flowers in the foreground, while Souter Lighthouse in Tyne and Wear rears its head behind

Tobie Loates took this moody photo of Thurlestone Rock off the coast of South Devon

Chris Garner captured a historical building on the small tidal island of St Michaels Mount in Cornwall

Submissions ranged from mist-cloaked valleys in the Peak District to carpets of heather on the Cornish cliffs.

The winners were chosen by a panel of five judges, also including professional photographer Paul Harris.

Commenting on his winning shot, amateur photographer Ed Silvester said: 'We'd driven down from London for an Easter break in Devon. Prawle Point was our morning and evening playground.

'The kids would explore the rock pools and splash in puddles, doing all the things kids do when they're not distracted by their phones.

'I was photographing the sunset one evening when my 10-year-old son Adam came bounding into the frame.

Jolyon Vincent caught the moon looming over Wheal Coates, a former tin mine situated on the north coast of Cornwall

Clouds start to roll in at Blakeney Point in Norfolk in this coastal photo taken by Jim Key

Elaine Edwards took this candid shot of a child exploring the muddy shoreline at Downs Banks in Staffordshire

'I like that he's got his boots on, he's not looking at a screen – he's just jumping over the rocks.

'For me it captures the essence of what childhood is about.'

Meanwhile, landscape and travel photographer Paul Harris, who helped judge the competition, said: 'This image has so much vitality both in the subject and in the way it makes you feel.

'Colour, energy and a sense of adventure all combine to allow the viewer in.'

Describing his impressive photo, member card winner Brian Terrey said: 'That morning I climbed the hill to the west of Corfe, hoping for a break in the clouds.

'You never know what the weather is going to be like up there, it's so unpredictable.

Edyta Rice photographed a scenic sunset illuminating the crashing waves on the Hartland shore in Devon

In the 1930's, thousands of bluebell bulbs were taken to be planted in Blickling's formal gardens and now the area in Norfolk is a popular tourist attraction. Vanessa Tarling chose to photograph the woodland in full bloom

Clouds shift over the Lake District's Wasdale valley in this autumnal shot taken by Nicky Barker

This striking silhouette was taken by Jay Birmingham while he ventured through Winnats Pass in the Peak District

Tobie Loates captured the motion of the waters around Whitsand Bay in Cornwall

'Luckily the sun burst through and everything came together – the sky, the mist, the atmosphere.

'Corfe is one of those enchanting places that I'll never get bored of. I used to visit as a child and roll down the grass banks around the castle.

'Now I take my six year old boy. It's somewhere I've grown up with and somewhere I'll always come back to.'

Mr Titchmarsh concluded: 'We are all custodians of these places, as wonderfully different as they are, and it's our responsibility to protect them for the next generation.

'It's what the Trust is about, what this competition is about, and what we're about as people.'

The competition will run again next year.

Grand Shugborough Hall in Staffordshire is a very photogenic stately home, as this grand shot by Dave Shardlow shows

Holywell is a coastal village in north Cornwall and it boasts a stunning sandy beach, as Nicke Acott reveals in this photo

A golden sun sets over Mwnt on the west coast of Wales, in this photo by Dannie Evans

Jason Smith captured reflections dancing on the surface of Wastwater in the Lake District

The unusual landscape around Brimham Rocks in North Yorkshire is captured in this landscape shot by Alan Clamp

A bizarre formation at Brimham Rocks in North Yorkshire is highlighted in this photo by Clive Williams

Alister Rankine took this blue-skied shot of Old Harry Rocks. The landmark consists of three chalk formations, including a stack and a stump, with the trio located off the Isle of Purbeck in Dorset

Wesley Jessup turned his attention to the balancing Brimham Rocks formation on Brimham Moor in North Yorkshire

A little girl admires the rural views in this sunny shot taken by Ania Hutchison on the grassy slopes of Leith Hill in Surrey

Chris Garner captured an eruption of pinks and purple engulfing the ruins of Wheal Coates tin mine in Cornwall

Rhossili Bay in Swansea has won numerous awards for its pristine coastline. Sarah Robinson decided to capture the area in a different way, taking a photo in a sunflower field leading down to the cliffs and beaches

Anthony Brown hiked up to the top of Snowdonia, the highest mountain in Wales, to get this sweeping shot of the valleys rolling beyond

An orange sun casts a fiery glow as its sets over Cornwall's Godrevy Beach in Cornwall. The golden shot was taken by Brenda Belcher

Dona Dicks took this autumnal shot of dew on an oak tree leaf while exploring the picturesque Blickling Estate in Norfolk

Laura Worthington captured three Highland cows on the move while exploring Curbar Edge in the Peak District

Daniel Harter photographed skeletal trees standing starkly in a lake within Clumber Park in Nottinghamshire

====== 1082 ========

FOUR-BEDROOM PENTHOUSE SUITE IN A LUXURY LONDON HOTEL GOES UP FOR SALE FOR £11.25MILLION

With room service on call at all times, round-the-clock access to a spa and staff on hand to do laundry - many people can only dream of living in a hotel.

But one wealthy buyer can do just that as a luxury hotel in London is selling off one of its top-floor, four bedroom suites for £11.25million.

The 3,703 square foot apartment is within the private residence at the Corinthia Hotel in the heart of the capital, but to use all of the perks of living in a hotel, the buyer must also pay a £40,000-a-year service charge.

The main reception room inside the private residence within the Cornithia Hotel in London, which has gone on the market for £11.25million

The top floor apartment has four bedrooms, and any potential buyer must also pay a £40,000 a year service charges

The luxury desk inside the study in the apartment, which is lined with bespoke joinery. The interior was designed by design house Goddard Littlefair

The lavishly appointed eight-seat dining room which has a central oval table and bespoke dining chairs

Each of the four bedrooms has been individually designed, with this bathroom coming with twin sinks and mirrors

The residence has a private entrance and lift at 10 Whitehall Place, so any buyer can discreetly slip in and out of the hotel without using the main doors.

It boasts four bedrooms, two reception rooms as well as four bathrooms, created by luxury design house Goddard Littlefair.

From the private fifth floor lift lobby, the entrance hall to the residence has a gold gilded ceiling with feature chandelier, a polished marble floor and hand-embroidered, hand-painted silk wall panels.

The marble floored inner hall leads into the large sitting room which has a stone feature fireplace, custom-made furniture with velvet and silk cushions, and specially curated artwork.

The entrance hall to the residence has a gold gilded ceiling, a polished marble floor and hand-embroidered, hand-painted silk wall panels

Another of the sitting rooms inside the residence. Any buyer will also have access to the hotel's ESPA spa

The Bulthaup fully fitted designer kitchen and breakfast room with central island has custom-designed walnut veneered cupboards, stone worktops and appliances

Sliding pocket doors from the sitting room connect with a study lined with bespoke joinery.

The sitting room is connected by double-doors to the lavishly appointed eight-seat dining room which has a central oval table and bespoke dining chairs.

The Bulthaup fully fitted designer kitchen and breakfast room with central island has custom-designed walnut veneered cupboards, stone worktops and appliances.

One of the four bedrooms inside the suite, which has bespoke cupboards and a cosy interior

Wetherells, who are marketing the property say the residence has been designed for 'exquisite luxury living and elegant entertaining'

Each of the four bedrooms is individually designed with the expansive master bedroom suite having a walk-in dressing room lined with four separate ranges of built-in cupboards.

The principal guest suite has a bedroom lined with bespoke cupboards and a luxurious en-suite bathroom and there are two further beautifully appointed bedrooms.

The apartment has a utility room and a dedicated service entrance and service lift from the hotel, allowing staff to deliver room service orders and collect and deliver laundry and meet daily needs.

There is an allocated parking bay in the secure underground car park, with a direct high-security lift to the entrance hall or up to the residence.

The private fifth floor lift lobby, which leads to the residence. Buyers can use a private entrance to the hotel to slip in and out discreetly

The buyer of the suite will also have access to a 24 hour concierge service. Pictured is the concierge reception

Any buyer will also have access to the hotel's ESPA spa which features a vitality pool, amphitheatre sauna, an ice fountain and marble heated lounges.

Peter Wetherell, Chief Executive of Wetherell, which is marketing the apartment said: 'The magnificent top floor lateral residence at the Corinthia Hotel London: Private Residences at 10 Whitehall Place has been designed for exquisite luxury living and elegant entertaining.

'This sophisticated private residence provides residents with privileged 5-star services and access to the adjoining hotel, known as London's 21st Century Grand Hotel.'

====== 1083 ========

HOTEL STAFF REVEAL THE WEIRDEST REQUESTS THEY'VE RECEIVED FROM GUESTS

Hotel staff have been revealing some of the most bizarre requests they've ever received from guests.

And it turns out that some customers are a very demanding bunch with requests ranging from making sure the sun rises to arranging for dolphins to be dancing in the nearby harbour.

The weird demands from the last 12 months were revealed by budget hotel chain Travelodge, which polled staff across its 552 UK properties.

Budget hotel chain Travelodge, which polled staff across its 552 UK properties, has revealed the weirdest requests it has received over the last 12 months

And even though some requests were no doubt said in jest, the range of odd demands is startling.

For example, a guest at Cardiff Central asked staff: 'Can you arrange for it to snow tomorrow as I want a white wedding?'

Staying on a weather theme, one staff member at the Covent Garden branch was asked: 'Can you make sure the sunrises outside my bedroom window?'

Also in the capital at the King Cross hotel, one customer said: 'Can you fill my bath with fresh goat's milk?'

While at the London Waterloo property, another mused: 'Can you ask that the London Eye rotates in an anti-clockwise formation?'

In Windsor Central earlier this year, one royal fan asked: 'Can you hold my place in the queue to Harry and Meghan's wedding whilst I go to sleep tonight?'

Even though some guest requests were no doubt said in jest, the range of odd demands is startling (file picture)

At the Torquay branch, one love-struck guest asked: 'Can you arrange for the dolphins to be dancing at 9pm – the same time that I will be proposing to my girlfriend?'

And one of the most bizarre requests in Liverpool was from a wedding guest who asked one staff member: 'Can you please get four of your team members to dress up as the Beatles to perform at my friend's wedding tonight as the band has cancelled?'

Travelodge also noted in the poll that as 50 per cent of customers are now made up of business travellers, this group can be the most demanding.

One guest on business in Newcastle asked: 'Can you book me a water taxi to take me across the river as the traffic is bad this morning and I can't be late for my meeting?'

Another said: 'Could you join a conference call to my New York office at midnight and take minutes?'

At the Torquay branch, one love-struck guest asked: 'Can you arrange for the dolphins to be dancing at 9pm – the same time that I will be proposing to my girlfriend?' Pictured is Torquay harbour

One particularly demanding guest asked: 'Please can you rename floor four ahead of my stay as it is an unlucky number in my culture and put 8 gold dragons into my room for good luck?'

While another misguidedly said: 'What is the altitude and longitude of the hotel? We are arriving by helicopter.'

Shakila Ahmed, Travelodge spokeswoman said: 'With 19 million customers staying annually in our 553 UK Travelodge hotels across the length and breadth of the UK, our hotel teams receive thousands of unusual requests from business and leisure travellers.

'Where possible, the teams will go above and beyond to help customers. They do like a good challenge.

'However there are some requests that they cannot help with, such as: arranging for it to snow and to ensure all traffic lights are green for a business executive so that he gets to his meeting on time.'

====== 1084 ========

WHO LIVES IN A HOUSE LIKE THIS? MAGICAL MINIATURE HOMES CROP UP ON THE ISLE OF MAN

Isle of Man residents have been left mystified after a series of tiny houses popped up across the island overnight.

Taking to Facebook, locals have shared stunning images of the intricate houses - which world-renowned street artists Anonymouse Mmx have now claimed responsibility for.

Measuring on average just 12 inches high, the houses feature miniature hand-crafted pieces of furniture, from dinky beds to intricately carved front doors.

Isle of Man residents have been left mystified after a series of tiny houses popped up across the island overnight

Taking to Facebook, locals have shared stunning images of the intricate houses - which world-renowned street artists Anonymouse Mmx have now claimed responsibility for

The quirky shelters quickly caught the attention of locals and social media was abuzz trying to work out who had created them.

One tiny shelter at Bradda Head on the coastline has been designed to look like a 19th century tower, with a regal banqueting table and chairs installed inside.

Meanwhile, at the other side of the island, close to dramatic glens and waterfalls stands a more rustic abode.

It features a comfy bed and even a miniature map of the island, with all of the details marked on it.

Measuring on average just 12 inches high, the houses feature miniature hand-crafted pieces of furniture, from dinky beds to intricately carved front doors

The quirky shelters quickly caught the attention of locals and social media was abuzz trying to work out who has created them

The Swedish art collective Anonymouse Mmx started constructing mice-sized scenery in 2016.

Using a pseudonym, Anonymouse Mmx member Parlan Mousekewitz explained: 'It started with us just wanting to build something, and then the focus point shifted onto the stories of Astrid Lindgren and the movies of Walt Disney and Don Bluth.

'We believe that at some point most kids like to imagine that there is a world parallel to ours wherein small animals live quite like we do but using things that we have lost.'

All of the Anonymouse Mmx scenes are built from a mix of materials, including wire, stone and wood.

The most recent designs were built in Malmo, Sweden, before being transported to the Isle of Man.

The artists say the art works, which took four months to construct, will stay on the island.

All of the Anonymouse Mmx scenes are built from a mix of materials, including wire, stone and wood. The most recent designs were built in Malmo, Sweden, before being transported to the Isle of Man

Tiny chairs can be seen through the window of one little house (left), while a miniature artwork can be seen hanging on the wall of another shelter (right)

The artists say the art works, which took four months to construct, will stay on the island

The Isle of Man tourism board is currently creating a trail map so that inquisitive visitors will be able to easily locate the houses.

The fairy-sized shelters are certainly a fitting addition for the Isle of Man.

The self-governing British dependency is proud of its diverse culture and heritage – built on legends and folklore stories and tales of giants and fairies.

Fairies, or more accurately the 'little people', 'little ones' or 'little fellows' as they are locally referred, were said to intervene in the lives of the ordinary people and many of the original customs and superstitions live on.

Unlike fairies from English fairy tales, the little people are mischievous and spiteful creatures, most often found hunting on horseback with a pack of hounds around them.

The fairy-sized shelters are certainly a fitting addition for the Isle of Man. The self-governing British dependency is proud of its diverse culture and heritage - built on legends and folklore stories and tales of giants and fairies

One tiny shelter at Bradda Head on coastline has been designed to look like a historic tower with a tiny banqueting table and chairs installed inside (left), while on the other side of the island, close to dramatic glens and waterfalls, stands a more rustic abode (right)

The Isle of Man tourism board is currently creating a trail map so that inquisitive visitors will be able to easily locate the houses

They are to be treated with the upmost respect - ask anyone on the Isle of Man and they will tell you that it is custom for locals and visitors alike to give the Little People a greeting when passing over the famous 'fairy bridge', for various fates await non-believers.

Commenting on the arrival of Anonymouse Mmx's little houses, a spokesperson from the Isle of Man tourism board said: 'The houses that have appeared are absolutely beautiful – everyone is having lots of fun hunting them down, especially the local children.

'When we spotted them on social media the other day we couldn't quite believe it.'

Anonymouse Mmx added: 'Although we usually feel more comfortable around mice, when we discovered that the Isle of Man is one of the few places in the world where, if you look in the right places, fairies may still be found, we thought it would be fun to create some houses for their local mini inhabitants.'

====== 1085 ========

NERVE-WRACKING FOOTAGE FROM THE COCKPIT SHOWS PILOTS LANDING DURING A THUNDERSTORM

If you're a nervous flyer, then you might want to look away now.

Nerve-wracking footage taken from the cockpit of a plane going into land at Palma de Mallorca in Spain shows two pilots navigating a thunderstorm.

Their bodies can be seen juddering in the turbulence, with torrential rain resulting in zero visibility.

Nerve-wracking footage taken from the cockpit of a plane going into land at Palma de Mallorca in Spain shows two pilots navigating a thunderstorm

The pilots frantically try to right the aircraft as it is pounded by heavy gusts of wind hitting 40mph.

The windscreen wipers also appear to be working overtime, as sheets of water pound down.

Gradually as the Boeing 737-800 descends, the ground below comes into view.

Lights running along the runway then start to shine through the rainy haze.

The pilots frantically try to right the aircraft as it is pounded by heavy gusts of wind hitting 40mph

Amazingly, the plane makes a pretty smooth landing and the pilots calmly guide it to its allotted stand

Amazingly, the plane makes a pretty smooth landing and the pilots calmly guide it to its allotted stand.

To date, YouTube footage showing the stormy plane landing has been watched more than 87,000 times.

Many viewers have applauded the pilots for their skilled landing.

Airbus A380 wrote: 'What a skilled pilots! Great job!', while Riad Salkanović added: 'Excellent execution. Bravo.'

====== 1086 ========

RUSSIAN HACKERS MADE £9.4M FROM BRITISH AIRWAYS DATA BREACH'

Hackers who stole the details of nearly 244,000 British Airways customers in a cyber attack could have raised £9.4million for Russian criminals, it has emerged.

Cyber security experts found the stolen credit card details were put up for sale online for between £6.94 and £38.58.

Magecart, a Russian-linked criminal group, is said to be behind the data breach in August in which 380,000 payments were initially thought to be compromised. The breach was detected 16 days after it began.

Hackers who stole the details of nearly 244,000 British Airways customers in a cyber attack

A British Airways investigation last month found that 244,000 cards were affected. Vitali Kremez, director of research at security firm Flashpoint, said criminals sold some details for higher prices because certain European cards were considered more valuable, The Daily Telegraph reported.

Experts said Magecart was one of the major vendors of compromised payment information online. It put the credit cards up for a sale a week after the hack, under adverts titled ‘CVV2 Dumps Update (high valid)’.

The hackers boasted of having the details of passengers from countries including the UK, US, Germany, Italy, Spain, Canada, France, Korea, Mexico, Argentina, Brazil and China.

The criminal group, which has run since 2015, has also targeted other major companies, including concert tickets website Ticketmaster.

The BA data breach dealt a huge blow to the airline’s reputation for customer service.

British Airways' chief executive Alex Cruz apologised over the computer hack

BA chief executive Alex Cruz said at the time: ‘We are deeply sorry for the disruption that this criminal activity has caused. We take the protection of our customers’ data very seriously.’

Customers flooded the airline with criticism on social media, with many slamming BA for failing to contact them directly about the breach.

One tweeted: ‘Idiots. So as an executive club member they have my card details, my passport, tel, email etc. All because you outsource IT to joke places to save money.’

Alex Neill of Which? said: ‘It is now vital that the company moves quickly to ensure those affected get clear information about what has happened and what steps they should take.’

The month before the hack, BA owner International Consolidated Airlines Group said profits had hit £989million for the first half of the year. BA raked in £780million of that sum.

The hack is significant because the scale of the payment information is almost unprecedented in the UK.

Telecoms firm TalkTalk was handed a record £400,000 fine by the Information Commissioner’s Office in 2016 when data from 156,959 customers was leaked the previous year, but financial information from just 15,656 was accessed.

Banks are legally obliged to refund customers who have had money fraudulently taken from their account.

A spokesman for BA said: ‘As soon as we discovered the data theft, we immediately contacted all affected customers to recommend they contact their banks to cancel or provide extra protection to their cards.

‘We have had no verified cases of fraud since the incident.’

====== 1087 ========

CAN YOU SPOT THE RUNWAY? EXTREME FOG SEES PLANE BLINDLY LAND AS IT TOUCHES DOWN IN BELARUS

There was no point getting a window seat on this flight, if it was a view you were after.

That's because nerve-wracking cockpit footage shows a plane descending into Minsk National Airport in Belarus, with zero visibility due to thick fog.

Nothing can be seen through a white haze and the runway is only visible at the very last minute, when the aircraft touches down.

Nerve-wracking cockpit footage shows a plane descending into Minsk National Airport in Belarus, with zero visibility due to thick fog

The pilots had to rely on the autopilot to guide the plane in, with no visual clues to go off.

To date, a YouTube video of the foggy landing has been watched more than 276,000 times.

Many viewers have commended the plane's captain and first officer for their skill.

Nothing can be seen through a white haze and the runway is only visible at the very last minute, when the aircraft touches down

A thick fog settled over Belarus last week, causing flight cancellations and delays in and out of Minsk airport

SteRon666 wrote 'the pilots are great', while another simply exclaimed 'super!'.

The aircraft was from the Belavia Belarusian Airlines fleet.

A thick fog settled over Belarus last week, causing flight cancellations and delays in and out of Minsk airport.

The visibility was also bad on the roads, with drivers not able to see more than 500 metres.

====== 1088 ========

LORD OF THE RINGS FANS CAN LIVE LIKE A HOBBIT IN A QUIRKY HAND-CRAFTED HOLIDAY LET

Fans of Lord of the Rings can now live like a hobbit in this quirky holiday let.

Shire Hollow is a hand-crafted Hobbit house inspired by the iconic mythical series, with its circular doors, curved walls and earthen roof.

But luckily the property, which sits in a private woodland estate in the Suffolk countryside, is human-sized and can sleep up to four guests with prices from £100 per night.

The entrance to Shire Hollow a quirky hand-craft holiday let that has been inspired by the Lord of the Rings series

The property sits in a private woodland estate in the Suffolk countryside. It has unusual curved walls and circular doors

The nine foot tall home is built into a large mound of earth and can sleep up to four adults. Prices start from £100 per night

While it resembles the Middle Earth residence of Frodo and Bilbo Baggins, Shire Hollow also has lots of modern day luxuries like a flat-screen TV and WiFi

One of the bizarre circular doors inside he two-bedroom property, which can be booked through letting agents Quality Unearthed

The nine foot tall home is built into a large mound of earth with large tangled roots arching from the ground and tall pine trees protruding either side.

It has lots of interesting features and Hobbit-inspired furniture, and even a miniature statue of Gandalf sits on the mantle-piece.

But while it resembles the Middle Earth residence of Frodo and Bilbo Baggins, Shire Hollow also has lots of modern day luxuries like a flat-screen TV and WiFi for its 21st century guests.

Owner Jan Lengyel decided to create the unique property in the private woodland he owned.

The build took about a year and was finished earlier this year. It involved a team of craftsmen to complete it to a high-quality finish.

The holiday let's online listing says that it is the perfect place for JRR Tolkein fans to live in a fantasy world

Shire Hollow also has a fully-equipped kitchen and a spacious dining room, where guests can entertain

One of the double beds in the two-bedroom holiday let. The walls and the ceiling inside the bedroom are also curved

Mr Lengyel, a former building design engineer, said: 'Our location is just perfect, with these amazing trees with major roots showing.

'It just lent itself to building something unique like this and I don't think anybody would be able to replicate it.

'Our children had left the nest and we have this magical piece of woodland that we wanted to share with people who perhaps wouldn't get to experience that quality of natural environment otherwise.

'The structure, which is made from a combination of concrete, reinforced steel and metal corrugated tubes, is surrounded by 300 tonnes of earth.

'It is so sturdy you could drive a tank over the roof. There are no 90-degree angles, everything is circular.

'I had a team of guys working on it and it took about a year to build. We had a carpenter working on it for five months flat.

The curved and circular theme also continues inside the bathroom. The listing describes it as a 'beautiful piece of architecture'

The property has Hobbit-inspired furniture, and even a miniature statue of Gandalf sits on the mantle-piece

'It was a six-figure sum outlay, no expense was spared. A lot of effort went into it. We're a mile away from West Stow and the reconstructed Anglo Saxon village there.

'They have a hobbit hole facade and it is very Lord of the Rings inspired and they have several individuals there who are members of the Tolkien Society and Lord of the Rings fanatics so they consulted with us a lot.

'Everything inside, from the pictures to the board games, is inspired by Lord of the Rings and the Hobbit.

'It's an absolutely genuine hobbit hole, inside and out. I think it's the only one in the world, there's definitely nothing like it in the UK or Europe. Even in Hobbiton, the film set in New Zealand, they're only the external hobbit hole facades, there's nothing behind the doors.

'Although it was expensive, it's a very sustainable way of building - it's got a living roof, we've got a colony of bats flying around.'

The two bedroom property can be booked through letting agents Quality Unearthed.

A spokesman for Quality Unearthed said: 'Shire Hollow is a real-life Hobbit house, nestled between the ancient earth and towering pine of a beautiful woodland estate.

The exterior of the property also has an outside dining area with the listing saying the property is 'spoilt with a whole host of mesmeric natural marvels'

'This magnificent construction recreates the imaginary dreamland of life in The Shire with this full-scale human-sized Hobbit house.

'Whether you are a fan of The Lord of the Rings or just want to try something completely unique, a Hobbit house is an extremely beautiful piece of architecture which makes a wonderful glamping abode.

'These earth shelters have actually been around for centuries and they rely on the soil and grass to protect them from the outside elements, which also assists the temperature to a natural state inside.

'The interior is filled with archetypal Hobbit house features from its curved beams and circular doors, to the quaint stain glass windows - the whole house creates a sense of intrigue and imagination.

'Every detail of this amazing construction has been carefully considered and beautifully substantiated to make an ultra-special stay.

'It's wonderfully positioned in the heart of the glorious Suffolk countryside, the site is spoilt with a whole host of mesmeric natural marvels.

'Experience the quintessential charm of life in the Shire and satisfy the lifelong dream of every Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit fans with a trip to this spectacular abode.'

====== 1089 ========

DELTA FLIGHT FROM SHANGHAI TO DETROIT ABORTS HIGH SPEED TAKEOFF AFTER A PLANE APPEARS ON RUNWAY

A Delta flight was forced to abandon a high-speed takeoff today after another plane appeared at the end of the runway, according to the Chinese aviation authority.

Detroit-bound flight DL582 was about to take off from Shanghai Pudong Airport at 11:40am when a Japan Airlines plane 'invaded the runway', according to a statement released by the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC).

All 217 passengers and 15 crew members have returned to the terminal safely and no injuries have been reported, according to a Delta spokesperson.

Videos and photos shared by witnesses show emergency services putting out a fire after the aircraft's tyres burst. Detroit-bound flight DL582 was about to take off from Shanghai Pudong Airport at 11:40am when a Japan Airlines plane 'invaded the runway', according to officials

All 217 passengers and 15 crew members have returned to the terminal safely after the incident

Passengers told Xinmin Evening News that the nose of the Airbus A350 had already lifted off the ground when the pilot slammed the brakes.

Videos and photos shared by witnesses show emergency services putting out a fire after the aircraft's tyres burst.

Inspections were also completed by the maintenance team, a Delta spokesperson told MailOnline.

All passengers have been arranged to board an extra flight, DL9924, which is scheduled to depart Shanghai tomorrow at 8am.

Inspections were also completed by the maintenance team, a Delta spokesperson said

The incident occurred on runway 34L at the Shanghai Pudong Airport this morning

All passengers have been arranged to board an extra flight, DL9924, which is scheduled to depart Shanghai tomorrow at 8am. No one was injured in the incident today (file photo)

The CAAC East China Regional Administration is investigating the incident.

This is not the first time a near-miss incident has occurred in Shanghai.

On October 11, 2016, flight MU-5643 was about to take off from Shanghai Hongqiao International Airport when it encountered another plane in its path along the runway.

The pilot, named He Chao, chose to accelerate and fly over the other aircraft avoiding a head-on crash by just 19 metres (62 feet).

The pilot was rewarded with three million yuan (£335,000) for preventing the collision and saving the lives of 439 people.

====== 1090 ========

GOING UP AGAINST CHRIS FROOME IN AN EXHILARATING AMATEUR VERSION OF THE TOUR DE FRANCE IN AUSTRALIA

It’s the sound of his tyres swooshing across the wet tarmac that I heard first. Then a flash of yellow and the fastest skinny man on two wheels in Australia raced away up the hill ahead of me.

Chris Froome quickly enforced the performance gap between a four-time Tour de France winner and a guy who’d spent the past week conducting in-depth ‘research’ into the best of the food and wine scene of New South Wales. Winner versus Dinner kept nagging at me for the next 50 miles.

I was in Jindabyne for the Australian edition of L’Etape, an event organised by ASO, the owners of the Tour de France.

Colin jetted from the UK to New South Wales to take part in the Australian edition of L’Etape, an event organised by ASO, the owners of the Tour de France. Pictured is Chris Froome leading the peloton in the 2017 event. He took part for fun as he was the Yellow Jersey holder

Colin, pictured, rode L’Etape on a Ribble R872 provided by Ribble Cycles of Preston

It’s a mass-participation bike ride that closely mirrors the experience of riding a Tour de France stage, right down to the yellow jersey holder dashing your dreams of a pro cycling career.

But on this occasion the worst storm for 20 years had decided to pass across the Mount Kosciuszko region the night before leaving the course shortened due to flooding, much to my relief as it turned out.

I had clearly under-estimated both the terrain and my ability to pile on the kilos in the preceding week of gourmet experiences.

Chris Froome gives photographer Marcus Enno the thumbs up as he powers around the course

L'Etape, says Colin, offers a unique view of the Jindabyne area, which is near the Snowy Mountains

L’Etape is held on closed roads and offers a unique view on this region more renowned for its winter sports. Wild, open spaces, challenging, constantly rolling roads and the occasional monster Alpine-style climb will keep ardent bike riders in Strava-segment-chasing heaven.

The perfect base camp for this adventure was the amazing Lake Crackenback resort. Large enough to have a village vibe but peaceful enough to have numerous kangaroos happily bouncing through the grounds.

It’s a peaceful oasis full of unique chalets, activity centres, restaurants and a spa. There’s something about mountain air that seems to cleanse the mind and body and I had rarely felt so at ease with the world.

The local town of Jindabyne, near the Snowy Mountains, is a thriving destination offering plenty of choice for the discerning and healthy eater. While vineyards are a few hours’ drive away near Canberra there is the bustling Wildbrumby Distillery to check out. During the winter season its products are essential apres-ski pick-ups.

Jindabyne is a thriving destination offering plenty of choice for the discerning and healthy eater, muses Colin, while vineyards are a few hours’ drive away near Canberra there is the bustling Wildbrumby Distillery to check out. During the winter season its products are essential apres-ski pick-ups

Free-wheeling: The cyclists that take part in the event enjoy clear roads - because they're closed to traffic

L'Etape is a mass-participation bike ride that closely mirrors the experience of riding a Tour de France stage

Colin finished the race soaked, exhausted and ruing a lack of preparation. But he was also exhilarated and full of admiration for the support of the locals. Pictured is Chris Froome coasting through the mist

Lake Crackenback Resort & Spa, pictured, was Colin's HQ for the race. He said it was 'large enough to have a village vibe but peaceful enough to have numerous kangaroos happily bouncing through the grounds'

Its bustling restaurant provided yet more incredibly tasty ballast ahead of my ride.

Perhaps the most remarkable thing about L’Etape is how it brings out the locals who compete to decorate the route with Tour de France-inspired yellow, green or red polka dot roadside ephemera.

In spite of the soggy, cold conditions in 2017 there was no dampening of support from the side of the roads.

It’s always hard to explain the euphoria that comes from finishing a serious physical challenge like this. I was soaked, exhausted and rueing my lack of preparation but I was also exhilarated and full of admiration for the region and the support of the locals, who made me feel like a champ.

====== 1091 ========

CRUISE SHIP UTOPIA HAS 190 APARTMENTS ON BOARD - COSTING UP TO $36M

For deep-pocketed travellers with a love of the high seas, an apartment on this luxury ocean liner might appeal.

The 971-foot long Utopia, which is currently under construction in South Korea, boasts 190 residential units, with the properties ranging from $4.4 million (£3.3 million) to $36 million (£27 million).

Artist renderings and showroom mock-ups reveal what the opulent vessel will look like, with the classically-styled apartments boasting ocean views, private hot tubs, sundecks, cinema rooms and walk-in closets.

The Utopia, which is currently under construction in South Korea, boasts 190 residential units, with the properties ranging from $4.4 million to $36 million

Artist renderings reveal what the opulent vessel will look like, with the classically styled apartments boasting ocean views, private hot tubs, sundecks, cinema rooms and walk-in closets

There is set to be an outdoor pool and water slide on the ship, which is over three years away from completion

The rooms will be finished with the finest fixtures and fittings, with one mock-up showing a kitchen decked out with thick marble counter tops and slick stainless steel appliances.

Another shows a bathroom so large that there is a plush armchair to recline in after having a wash. Again, the place is clad with slabs of marble and there is a TV set within a mahogany cabinet.

On decks 15 and 16, the Utopia website states, will be private members club, where residents can mingle.

This will house a luxury restaurant where guest preferences will be registered, so their favourite wines will be 'decanted and ready to pour' and meals will be tailored to tastes.

A showroom mock-up with a bathroom so large that there is even room for a comfy armchair to recline in

The apartments have private balcony areas, so residents can soak up the views while they sail around the world

A rendering shows a lounge area, decked out with plush pieces of furniture. The mirrored wall of a bedroom can be seen through a doorway beyond

Over in the ship's lounge, an array of beverages will be available, from 'properly-shaken martinis' to cups of 'fresh ginger tea'.

Other communal amenities on the residential boat will include a medical centre, stores, a casino, nightclub, and a state-of-the-art gym, with a spread of fitness classes on offer.

For those who don't have a few million spare, the Utopia will also be home to a hotel.

There will be 206 guest rooms aboard the ship, with the categories including 'suites', 'luxury suites' and 'grand suites'.

The Utopia - which is a build project costing around $1 billion - was the brainchild of David Robb, a successful financier and Harvard business school graduate.

Talk of the liner emerged back in 2008 and there has been much excitement about the ship's delivery since.

The Utopia was the brainchild of David Robb, a successful financier and Harvard business school graduate. Talk of the project emerged back in 2008 and there has been much excitement about the ship's delivery since

A rendering showing one of the dining rooms within an apartment, with a cityscape visible through the floor-to-ceiling windows

Many of the apartments are set to have private hot tubs on the balcony areas

According to an article in The Wall Street Journal, dated to 2013, nearly 80 clients had signed or were in the process of negotiating purchase contracts.

So that they could get a taste of what bang they were getting for their buck, a 3,000-square-foot showroom for potential buyers was set up on Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills, California.

In a recent interview with Business Insider, Robb revealed most of the buyers so far are business people and philanthropically-minded individuals.

He also noted that the physical launch of the ship is still three-and-a-half years out.

There is no word on the ship's itinerary but Robb explained that it will travel to 'remote parts of the world'.

He concluded: 'We describe it as the largest private yacht in the world. Cruise ships are built to last approximately 25 to 30 years.

'We're building Utopia to a 100-year specification. There's nothing like that in the world.'

The rooms will be finished with the finest fixtures and fittings, with one mock-up showing a kitchen decked out with thick marble counter tops and slick stainless steel appliances

There is no word on the ship's itinerary yet but Robb explained that it will travel to 'remote parts of the world'

====== 1092 ========

IRONMAN, MOVE OVER! WATCH DAREDEVILS FLY OVER THE NORWEGIAN FJORDS AT 120MPH

Is it a bird? Is it a plane? No, it's Jetman!

New vertigo-inducing footage shows 59-year-old Swiss daredevil Yves Rossy pulling yet another gravity-defying stunt with two equally as fearless friends, high above the Norwegian fjords.

The aviation addict, who is known as Jetman for the jet-powered carbon fibre wings he invented, is seen zooming through the skies at speeds of around 120mph with his sidekicks in tow.

New vertigo-inducing footage shows Swiss daredevil Yves Rossy pulling his latest stunt with two equally as fearless friends, high above the Norwegian fjords

The supermen-styled trio are seen speeding over rocky cliffs and somersaulting towards the earth, before swooping back up to new heights.

At one point they loop in formation in front of Norway's famed Troll Wall, Europe's tallest vertical mountain wall.

The four-minute video was released as a teaser to an upcoming film titled Loft: The Jetman Story.

It tells the story of Rossy's progression from a military and commercial pilot to Jetman.

The supermen-styled trio are seen speeding over rocky cliffs and somersaulting towards the earth, before swooping back up to new heights

The four-minute video was released as a teaser to an upcoming film titled Loft: The Jetman Story. It tells the story of Rossy's progression from a military and commercial pilot to Jetman.

The documentary was apparently a culmination of '25 years of research and development, 24 months of planning and 25 days spent on the ground – and in the air'.

According to Rossy's website, he became the first and only man in the history of aviation to fly with a jet-propelled wing in 2006.

He started out as a military pilot, flying fighter jets for the Swiss air force for 17 years. He then switched jobs and became a commercial pilot.

His website says that he 'has always dedicated all his free time to flight and experimented with all its forms', which saw him go on to create a harness with inflatable wing panels that he subsequently developed into a rigid wing with four engines.

Now instead of flying planes, Rossy prefers propelling himself through the skies.

According to Rossy's website, he became the first and only man in the history of aviation to fly with a jet-propelled wing in 2006. He started out as a military pilot, flying fighter jets for the Swiss air force for 17 years. He then switched jobs and became a commercial pilot

In 2013 Vince Reffet became Rossy's protégé and the following year, Jetman moved operations to Dubai, with the Jetman Dubai brand established. Fred Fugen, another daredevil, also joined the team. The three extreme pilots all feature in the yet-to-be-released film

His custom built flight suit weighs almost 55kg and has a wing span of two metres.

His invention is now so refined, that 'all he has is an altimeter for safety, and a tiny throttle control in his hand' to control his speed.

To date, he has completed flights over the Swiss Alps - including Lake Geneva in 2002 - and, in 2008, he crossed the English Channel in the flight path of Louis Blériot.

He flew next to a 1940s' Breitling Douglas DC-3 over Lake Lucerne in Switzerland in 2012.

He has also previously soared over the Grand Canyon for eight minutes.

In 2013 Vince Reffet became Rossy's protégé and the following year, Jetman moved operations to Dubai, with the Jetman Dubai brand established.

Fred Fugen, another daredevil, also joined the team.

The three extreme pilots all feature in the yet-to-be-released film.

====== 1093 ========

CUTTING-EDGE ECO YACHT IS POWERED BY 30 SOLAR PANELS ON THE ROOF

This smart eco-yacht, powered by 30 solar panels on the roof, is tipped to make waves in the sailing community.

The 55ft-long Silent 55 E-Power catamaran is said to be as 'silent as a canoe', with the solar-powered electric motors and lithium batteries running without any noise.

The vessel - which costs £1.2 million before VAT - can self generate 10kW of power and can cruise up to 100 miles a day, permanently for weeks without fuel.

Scroll down for video

The 55ft-long Silent 55 E-Power catamaran is said to be as 'silent as a canoe', with the solar-powered electric motors and lithium batteries running without any noise

The vessel - which costs £1.2 million before VAT - can generate 10kW of power and can cruise up to 100 miles a day, permanently for weeks without fuel. Above, one of the bedroom areas

The solar energy also feeds the craft's domestic systems including air conditioning, cooking facilities and other appliances.

The yacht has an official cruising speed of 12 knots, although it can reach a top speed of 20 knots in short bursts.

It has capacity for 12 passengers and there are five different layouts available.

The most luxurious offering includes the installation of a spacious master cabin that spans both hulls.

Other rooms on board the vessel include a galley, a cosy saloon and dining area.

It has been created by Austrian shipyard Silent Yachts.

Silent 55 E-Power: How it works The 55ft-long Silent 55 E-Power catamaran can cruise up to 100 miles a day without fuel, permanently and for weeks featuring virtually unlimited range. Thirty solar panels installed on the roof power electric motors and lithium batteries, which run without any noise. The yacht has an official cruising speed of 12 knots, although it can reach a top speed of 20 knots in short bursts. Light-weight Lithium-Batteries provide ample energy for the propulsion as well as for household appliances, such as televisions, air-conditioning units and water-makers. The solar-panels are integrated in the roof, so there is no wind-load on them, while the batteries and electric-motors are inside the boat in a dry and safe place. In the scenario of prolonged dark weather, there is a backup diesel generator that can power the craft by itself. It can also be used to charge the lithium batteries to keep fuel usage to a minimum. The solar panels come with a 25 year warranty, while the battery banks come with a 10 year guarantee.

The solar energy also feeds the craft's domestic systems including air conditioning, cooking facilities and other appliances

The yacht has an official cruising speed of 12 knots, although it can reach a top speed of 20 knots in short bursts. It has capacity for 12 passengers and there are five different layouts available

Heike and Michael Köhler founded Silent-Yachts in 2009 and the pair have sailed more than 75,000 miles around the world proving their concepts

Heike and Michael Köhler founded Silent-Yachts in 2009 and the pair have sailed more than 75,000 miles around the world proving their eco-conscious concepts.

They now have a number of models in their range, each catering to different client needs and tastes.

Commenting on the Silent 55 E-Power vessel Michael Köhler said: 'What this represents to the yachtsman, among other features, is the ability to cruise for many hours at normal speed and throughout the evening at a reduced speed.

'We set the standard for an entirely new dynamic in yachting: No fuel. No maintenance. Pure solar-powered luxury.'

Although technically the E-Power has a limitless range, it is only the case in good, sunny conditions.

In the scenario of prolonged dark weather, there is a backup diesel generator that can power the craft by itself.

Although technically the E-Power has a limitless range, it is only the case in good, sunny conditions. In the scenario of prolonged dark weather, there is a backup diesel generator that can power the craft by itself

A view of the 30 panels covering the outside of the yacht

It can also be used to charge the lithium batteries to keep fuel usage to a minimum.

Mr Köhler added: 'The generator is only used to recharge the batteries in the rare case when higher speed is required for longer periods of time or if the weather is bad for several days.

'Under normal average holiday conditions, the boat is self-sufficient with unlimited range without burning fuel.'

The boat was officially launched in Cannes in September.

A spokesman for the company added: 'We are the producer of the first and only oceangoing solar-electric production catamarans in the world.

'It makes for a clean environment thanks to no vibrations and no fumes, and due to electric propulsion, it offers pure silence.'

====== 1094 ========

TRICKY ROAD RULES QUIZ ASKING DRIVERS TO DETERMINE WHO HAS THE RIGHT OF WAY LEAVES MOTORISTS STUMPED

A tricky road rules question that asks drivers to determine who has the right of way has left many motorists stumped.

The road safety question, which was posted to the NSW Road Safety Facebook page on Sunday, asked users to share who they thought had right of way.

The question consisted of an illustration that showed three vehicles, a cyclist and a pedestrian at an intersection with arrows suggesting their intended direction.

Who has right of way? Motorists were left stumped after being asked to determine who has the right of way in a graphic showing three cars (a, b and c), a cyclist (e) and a pedestrian (d)

In the picture, car A is waiting at a stop sign and intending on turning right with a cyclist (E) entering traffic to his left and car B intending on doing a U-turn to his right.

Car C is at a stop sign opposite car A and intending on turning left with cyclist (E) intending on crossing his path to his right and car A turning right in front of him.

There is also a pedestrian (D) who is intending on crossing the road in front of cars A, B, C and cyclist E.

While the post garnered hundreds of comments on social media, many users appeared to either not know the road rules or found the picture confusing.

'First off, you’re all driving on the wrong side of the road,' one person wrote.

'Be nice if you could actually chuck u-turns at lights in Australia but that is much too high IQ rule making,' another person said.

A third person added: 'To clear up some confusion here, NSW law states that when making a u-turn, you must give way to all other traffic.'

The question consisted of an illustration that showed three vehicles, a cyclist and a pedestrian at an intersection with arrows suggesting their intended direction (stock image)

Other respondents simply made a mockery of the question.

'D will die first then E and it will be just luck who survives the last three way smash knowing what NSW drivers are like!!!' one person wrote.

'Ok don’t worry about the bike, should not be on the road so ignore. The pedestrian is still on foothpath ( smart). So B,C,A,' a second person said.

A third person added: 'E every time. B if driven by non anglo man and if there are traffic lights present. A if it is a taxi. D if fixated on iphone. C may as well park it up.'

After much online discussion and debate, NSW Road Safety - NSW GOV posted the correct answer to finally set the record straight.

So, who has the right of way? ANSWER: E, D, C, A and B. Bicycle E is going straight through the intersection (without a stop sign or give way sign applying to them) so isn’t required to give way to any vehicle or pedestrian. When crossing at an intersection, Pedestrian D must give way to oncoming vehicles going straight ahead. Car C is turning after stopping at a stop sign so must give way to any pedestrian crossing the road it's turning into (Pedestrian D) and all vehicles in, entering or approaching the intersection (Bicycle E), except drivers turning right (Car A) or making a U-turn (Car B). Car A is turning after stopping at a stop sign so must give way to vehicles in, entering or approaching the intersection, except drivers turning right or making a U-turn (Car B). When making a U-turn, a driver must have a clear view of any approaching traffic and give way to all vehicles and pedestrians.

As cyclist E was travelling through the intersection without a stop sign, it was revealed that it didn't need to give way to any other vehicle or pedestrian.

Pedestrian D next had right of way because although he must give way to oncoming vehicles going straight ahead, only the cyclist was doing so.

After the pedestrian, car C, A and then finally B were revealed to to have right way.

The final result revealed many motorists were way off with their responses, and one user even said it was a concern so many people had different responses.

'Maybe it would be a good road safety measure to have these scenarios & the correct answers in ads on tv to educate everyone so we are all on the same page,' she said.

Daily Mail Australia reached out to NSW Road Safety - NSW GOV for comment.

====== 1095 ========

THE WORLD'S LARGEST CRUISE SHIP MAKES ITS U.S. DEBUT, WITH THE $1.35BN VESSEL PULLING INTO MIAMI

The world's biggest cruise ship has made its U.S. debut, with the enormous vessel casting a shadow on Miami.

Royal Caribbean's newest liner Symphony of the Seas, which cost $1.35 billion to build, boasts 18 decks, 22 restaurants, and room to accommodate 6,680 guests.

Newly-released images of the large vessel show it pulling into Terminal A at Port Miami at night, with it putting on a dazzling light display.

Scroll down for video

The world's biggest passenger ship has made its U.S. debut, with the enormous vessel casting a shadow on Miami

Royal Caribbean's newest ship Symphony of the Seas, which cost $1.35 billion to build, boasts 18 decks, 22 restaurants, and room to accommodate 6,680 guests

The waterpark on the top deck can be seen, with its twisting slides illuminated.

A lively firework display also marked the ship's arrival on Friday night, before it departed on a four-night voyage to Mexico.

Symphony of the Seas - which is the 25th ship in Royal Caribbean's fleet - launched in March and took its first paying passengers in April.

The boat measures 1,188 feet long, taller than the Eiffel Tower standing upright; and more than 215 feet wide.

Symphony of the Seas - which is the 25th ship in Royal Caribbean's fleet - launched in March and took its first paying passengers in April

Along with having 22 restaurants, there are more than 40 bars and lounges, including one futuristic drinking hole where robots rustle up the cocktails

A peek inside the royal loft suite, which comes complete with a grand piano and double-height ceilings

It kicked off its summer season in the Mediterranean with calls to ports in Spain, France and Italy.

The adventure-packed ship will now make Miami, Florida, her year-round home, taking holidaymakers on seven-night Caribbean voyages.

The hefty vessel has been deemed as 'the ultimate playground for guests of all ages', with a multitude of activities on offer.

Along with having 22 restaurants, there are more than 40 bars and lounges, including one futuristic drinking hole where robots rustle up the cocktails.

Other attractions include a zip wire, ice rink, mini golf course, climbing walls, surf simulator and a full-size basketball court.

A lively firework display also marked the ship's arrival on Friday night, before it departed on a four-night voyage to Mexico.

The hefty vessel has been deemed as 'the ultimate playground for guests of all ages', with a multitude of activities on offer

A look at one of the ship's junior suites, which includes ample space to lounge around in and a balcony to soak up the views

It even boasts its own version of Manhattan's Central Park, with the landscaped area decked out with more than 20,700 lush tropical plants and 52 trees

SYMPHONY OF THE SEAS: QUICK FACTS Symphony of the Seas measures 1,188 feet long, taller than the Eiffel Tower standing upright; and more than 215 feet wide

It weighs 228,081 gross registered tons (GRT), which is more than 17,000 African bush elephants

The ship is made up of 500,000 individual parts

There are 18 total decks (16 guest decks) with a total capacity of 6,680 passengers

There are more than 13,347 pieces of artwork on board

Symphony's Central Park has more than 20,700 lush tropical plants, plus 52 trees

On the dining front, Symphony has 5,189 restaurants seats across 22 restaurants

Playmakers Sports Bar & Arcade lets guests cheer on their home team at sea across any one of 31 big-screen TVs

The Bionic Bar serves up 1,000 drinks per day, 21 mixers and 30 spirits from two robot bartenders

There are more than 42 bars and lounges with 124 specialty cocktails on the menu alongside the classics, including 196 spirits

On an average, during a seven-night cruise, 5,000 dozen fresh eggs, 100 gallons of chocolate ice cream, 2,100 lbs of lobster tail and 2,500 lbs of fresh salmon are used on board

1,500 pounds of coffee is made during the same voyage, that's 6 million coffee beans

450 cases of champagne served weekly

It even boasts its own version of Manhattan's Central Park, with the landscaped area decked out with more than 20,700 lush tropical plants and 52 trees.

So guests can cool off after a day of non-stop activity, there are 23 pools and multiple water slides.

One slide boasts the title for being 'the tallest slide at sea', with a 100-foot drop.

Moving to the evening, there is a state-of-the-art theatre where Broadway-style shows entertain guests on a nightly basis.

And for guests wanting to channel their inner-James Bond, they can take a spin on the roulette wheel at the on-board casino.

To end the night in style, the royal loft suite caters to passengers seeking a spot of luxury.

The room features a mezzanine bedroom, a dining area to entertain and a grand piano.

Commenting on the ship's introduction to the Royal Caribbean fleet, the firm's CEO Michael Bayley said: 'Symphony takes family vacationing to a whole new level with energy and options never before found in one place'

So guests can cool off after a day of non-stop activity, there are 23 pools and waterslides. One slide boasts the title for being 'the tallest slide at sea', with a 100-foot drop (left). For the ultimate cruise experience, there is a two-story family suite on the liner which houses eight guests (right)

The official naming ceremony for Symphony of the Seas will take place on Thursday, November 15

For the ultimate family cruise experience, there is a two-story suite on the liner designed with children in mind.

Perks include an in-suite slide, an air hockey table, a building block wall and a butler who is on call around the clock.

Commenting on the ship's introduction to the Royal Caribbean fleet, the firm's CEO Michael Bayley said: 'Symphony takes family vacationing to a whole new level with energy and options never before found in one place.

'This ship is the perfect blend of our greatest hits we know guests love and a lineup of vibrant, new restaurants, activities and unparalleled entertainment – all purposefully designed around vacationers' preferences.

'With her U.S. homecoming, Symphony is changing the game for how travellers of all ages vacation on our biggest and boldest adventure yet.'

The official naming ceremony for Symphony of the Seas will take place on Thursday, November 15.

====== 1096 ========

FLIGHT ATTENDANT'S CHEEKY RESPONSE TO PASSENGER DEMANDING WINDOW SEAT

When a moaning airline passenger demanded he have a window seat he probably thought the cabin crew would arrange for him to swap seats.

But one flight attendant came up with a much more cheeky response - by drawing a picture of a window on a piece of paper and sticking it on the wall next to him.

The incident happened on a flight in the US when the unhappy passenger, who had requested a window seat, ended up sat in a row without a window.

When a passenger demanded he be moved to a window seat on a flight after being placed in a row without a window, a cheeky flight attendant drew a picture of a portal with some scenery and stuck it to the wall

A fellow Japanese passenger called @koo_TmS_suke noted on Twitter that when the crew on the unknown airline came around during the drinks service, the man in question blurted out 'give me a window seat.'

According to the Twitter user, the flight attendant walked away before rushing back with a piece of paper and stuck it to the blank canvas wall next to the man.

And on closer inspection, it turned out that the cabin crew member had actually drawn a picture of a window featuring blue sea and white clouds, to give the impression of scenery.

A picture of the flight attendant's artwork was then posted on Twitter gaining almost 8,000 retweets and 15,000 likes.

The picture of the window was posted to Twitter, where it was retweeted almost 8,000 times and got 15,000 likes

And according to Sora News 24, other Twitter users found the drawing hilarious and praised the flight attendant's response.

One wrote: 'That's really clever', and another said: 'Great thinking by the attendant.'

While one sarcastically remarked: 'How lucky he must be to be gifted with a such a unique scenery.'

====== 1097 ========

PLAY AT BEING ROBINSON CRUSOE ON THIS REMOTE ISLAND IN BELIZE

If you've ever fancied playing at being Robinson Crusoe, then this remote island retreat might pique your interest.

Bird Island is located on an atoll in Belize, with a colourful private retreat accommodating six guests.

The quirky property is currently available to rent via Airbnb, with rates working out at roughly £64 per person per night.

If you've ever fancied playing at being Robinson Crusoe, then this remote island retreat might pique your interest. Bird Island is located on an atoll in Belize, with a colourful private retreat accommodating six guests

The quirky property is currently available to rent via Airbnb, with rates working out at roughly £64 per person per night

Other than the colourful accommodation building, there is nothing much else on the outcrop bar a few trees.

Travellers are advised to fly into Belize City and transfer to the village of Placencia via car or plane.

From there, Bird Island is a short boat ride away.

Guests must stock up on supplies first, as once on the island, there is nothing in the way of food other than fresh fish.

However,the Airbnb listing notes that there is a 'very well-stocked kitchen' with a myriad of condiments such as cake mixes, flour, rice, spices and oils to use.

In total there are three accommodation blocks on Bird Island. A main house with a master bedroom, an over-the-water cabana with queen-sized bed and a smaller cabana with a double-size bed

Guests must stock up on supplies first, as once on the island, the only food option is to fish. However, an Airbnb listing for the island notes that there is a 'very well-stocked kitchen' with a myriad of condiments such as cake mixes, flour, rice, spices and oils

Other amenities include a fridge, small freezer, a phone to call local numbers and 'very good' WiFi.

On the activity front, there are two single-person and two new double-person kayaks to cruise the atoll that surrounds the island.

The island's owner recommends a four to five-day stay.

In total there are three accommodation blocks on Bird Island.

A main house with a master bedroom, an over-the-water cabana with queen-sized bed and a smaller cabana with a double-size bed.

Guests are left in complete isolation until they are picked up at the end of their stay.

A view of one of the property's en suite bathrooms, with tropical artwork adorning one of the walls outside

There are hammocks swinging above the decks, so that guests can sit back and soak up the watery views

The island runs on solar-power and has a wind generator.

The property's owner highlights that the island is constantly undergoing improvement.

Last year new decks were added, along with a fishing dock and an observatory overlooking the atoll.

Previous guests have left rave reviews of the property, deeming the place 'beautiful' and 'magical'.

Anthony wrote: 'What an amazing place to spend our honeymoon! We couldn't have chose a better place. Looking back now, it probably was one of the highlights of our trip.'

Meanwhile, Clara exclaimed: 'Wow! We had this trip planned for two years and we can't even explain how amazing it was! Snorkeling, reading, fishing, hanging out and star gazing. Everything was great.'

Bird Island has proved to be very popular with holidaymakers and it is already booked up for the majority of 2019.

The property's owner highlights that the island is constantly undergoing improvement. Last year new decks were added, along with a fishing dock and an observatory overlooking the atoll

====== 1098 ========

CRAIG REVEL HORWOOD RECALLS HIS HOLIDAYS OF A LIFETIME

Craig enjoying a drink on a Med cruise

Continuing our series on the holiday experiences of famous people, BBC Strictly Come Dancing judge Craig Revel Horwood, 53, recalls his lifetime of adventures…

The first holiday I remember

It was a week in Forster, north of Sydney, when I was nine. It was pretty disastrous. On our first day on the beach, one of my sisters gashed her foot on a bottle.

Then I got really bad sunburn surfing the waves and couldn’t go back in the water for the rest of the holiday.

My first trip abroad

When I was three we moved from Australia and settled in Fareham, Hampshire, because my father was training to become an officer in the Australian Royal Navy.

On my first day at primary school I remember being kitted out with plimsolls, because we didn’t have those in Australia. I loved all the hot school dinners because we only had packed lunches back home. We stayed in England for two years, then returned to Australia.

First school trip

When I was 11 we went on a bushwalk in the Blue Mountains, west of Sydney. I hated every minute of it.

We slept in tents on a beach and I freaked out because lots of crabs tried to join us.

I also had to take salt tablets because I became dehydrated. To cap it all, a bull ant bit my toe, which swelled to triple its normal size, but I had to keep on walking.

My mum didn’t recognise me when I returned home – I’d lost a stone.

My best holiday ever...

Flying first-class to Australia for my sister Di’s wedding in 2012. When I touched down, I did things on my bucket list, including a balloon ride over Melbourne and climbing the Sydney Harbour Bridge.

Close bonds: Craig, back row, pictured with his family in Australia

… and the worst

Travelling to Mombasa with my then boyfriend about 15 years ago. Unfortunately, our hotel burned down when we were flying out, so our operator found us another one along the coast. I’d planned a lazy break relaxing on lovely beaches. Instead, we spent the week fighting off monkeys who tried to steal our belongings from the hotel balcony.

My essential holiday item

My USB charger – you can’t do anything without internet access.

Dream destination

The Maldives, if I ever get any time off, darling! The white sands and crystal waters look so beautiful, like something in a Disney film.

====== 1099 ========

THE UK'S 10 MOST WONDERFUL WINTER WALKS

Writer and keen walker Tom Chesshyre has hiked more than 2,000 miles in many different countries.

But some of his favourite walks are in the UK.

Here he shares some of those routes…

1. Mevagissey to Gorran Haven, Cornwall

The South West Coast Path runs for 630 miles from Minehead in Somerset to Poole Harbour in Dorset. The harbour at Mevagissey in Cornwall (above)

The South West Coast Path runs for 630 miles from Minehead in Somerset to Poole Harbour in Dorset, making it the country’s longest National Trail (southwestcoastpath.org.uk).

You can’t beat the sweeping clifftop scenery and beautiful beaches between the Cornish villages of Mevagissey and Gorran Haven. Stop at the Rising Sun Inn in Portmellon for a glass of something cold. The round trip is seven miles.

2. Aylsham to Cromer, Norfolk

This walk follows about 11 miles of the 61-mile Weavers’ Way footpath between Great Yarmouth and Cromer (norfolk.gov.uk/weaversway). The path passes two fine National Trust properties – Blickling Hall and Felbrigg Hall (nationaltrust.org.uk). Stop at one or both to make a day of it.

3. Laugharne to St John’s Hill, Wales

Poem In October by Dylan Thomas describes his ‘birthday walk’ from Laugharne to St John’s Hill in Carmarthenshire, with the ‘mussel-pooled and the heron Priested shore’ below. It is about a four-mile round trip (dylanthomasbirthdaywalk.co.uk). Afterwards, reward yourself with a pint in Dylan’s favourite watering hole, Brown’s Hotel (browns.wales).

4. Clyro to Painscastle, Powys

This one also has a literary connection: it’s the old stomping ground of the Reverend Francis Kilvert, whose humorous 19th Century diaries about his work as a curate here has a cult following. It is a nine-mile round trip – the Roast Ox Inn at Painscastle is the perfect pit-stop (roastox.co.uk).

5. Hambleton loop, Rutland

Rutland is England’s smallest county and much of it is taken up by Rutland Water, one of the largest artificial lakes in Europe. In the middle of the lake is a peninsula with the village of Hambleton in the centre. A countryside walk around the wonderfully remote setting, starting and finishing in the village, is about four miles. A pint can be enjoyed at The Finch’s Arms when you return (finchsarms.co.uk).

