On the Parsons Green attack, committee chair Mr Grieve said: 'There were fundamental failings around this young man's arrival in the UK and how he was handled thereafter.

'There was clear evidence that he had been with IS, that he had witnessed or participated in acts of violence. His behaviour showed signs if disturbance.'

The committee also made broader recommendations in relation to all five terror attacks last year.

MPs castigated internet firms for failing to tackle the scourge of extremism online and call on large firms to boycott advertising with them until more is done to take down hate speech and bomb recipes.

The report states: 'We recommend that pressure is out on Communications Service Providers (CSPs) by the business community, following the example of companies such as Unilever.

'We strongly consider that action which affects CSPs' profits will hit home harder than an appeal to them to 'do the right thing' and could force them to take action on this crucial issue.'

Unemployed father-of-four Darren Osborne from Cardiff (left) killed Makram Ali, 51, (right) in the Finsbury Park Mosque attack

Fury over 'fundamental failings' in the handling of the Parsons Green bomber Ahmed Hassan (right) have led MPs to order a separate report after he left an IED (left) on a Tube train

The reports also criticises authorities to failing to learn lessons from the 7/7 attacks and the killing of Lee Rigby, adding: 'The lessons from last year's tragic events must now result in real action.'

In response to the report, Met Police Commissioner Cressida Dick told LBC radio: 'I am very confident that we actually have implemented a huge number of changes since last year.

'I am equally confident that in this country, thanks to persistent investment and learning over the last many many years, we have a very powerful counter terrorist machine, which includes the police and the government, and the security services, and we will strive with every sinew to improve and improve.'

How the five terror attacks which claimed 36 lives last year exposed blindspots for police and security services

Westminster: Criminal converted to Islam in prison didn't meet threshold for re-investigation Khalid Masood was radicalised in prison Khalid Masood, 52, an Islamic convert living in Birmingham, drove car over Westminster Bridge on March 22 2017, mounted the pavement and killed five pedestrians before entering the gates of parliament and fatally stabbing PC Keith Palmer. He had an extensive criminal history dating back to 1978, with his most notable offences for violent crimes between 2000 and 2003. Between 2004 and 2013, Masood was known to MI5 due to his participation in extremist circles and he was actively investigated by MI5 between 2010 and 2012. He was assessed to be a distributor of extremist material and possibly involved in facilitating the travel of individuals of concern to the tribal areas of Pakistan. During the period between 2012 and 2016, MI5 observed 'intermittent contact' between Masood and other individuals of interest but nothing that met the threshold for re-investigation. The committee said that MI5's failure 'fully to take into account the cumulative effect of individuals appearing on the periphery of numerous investigations' appeared to be relevant Masood's case, just as it was with Salman Abedi, the Manchester bomber. Victims (left to right) Pc Keith Palmer, Aysha Frade, Leslie Rhodes, Andreea Cristea and Kurt Cochran They also noted that prisoners who convert to Islam in jail, like Masood, are around four times more likely to be convicted of an Islamist-related offence than the general British Muslim population. Counter-Terrorism Policing accepted: 'The data would tend to suggest, that people who have converted are more vulnerable to radicalisation and potentially even – I don't think there is a scientific way of saying this – but potentially not just being radicalised but becoming violent.' The ISC said: 'Prison officers must be trained to identify instances where someone has converted following association with extremists, to assess whether that conversion is therefore part of a positive journey or a negative one for an individual, and to be able to take action in the latter case.'

London Bridge: Investigation into one attacker was suspended while intel on Italian killer took 49 days to be translated Khuram Butt, Rachid Redouane and Youssef Zaghba used a van to run over pedestrians on London Bridge on June 3 2017 before launching a knife attack in Borough Market, killing eight people. Despite the attack on Westminster Bridge in March 2017, the report noted that 'hostile mitigation barriers' were not installed on the eight Thames bridges in central London until after the London Bridge attack three months later. Remarkably, Counter-Terrorism Policing told the committee: 'Westminster Bridge, that was not considered an attack on a bridge, it was just one of the crowded places in an attack on parliament.' Khuram Butt, Rachid Redouane and Youssef Zaghba killed eight people in last year's attack on London Bridge Butt first came to the attention of authorities in relation to investigations into the banned extremist group al-Muhajiroun (ALM) and he was actively investigated by MI5 between mid-2015 and 2017 following reports of 'aspirations' to conduct an attack in the UK. The investigation into Butt, 27, from Barking, East London, remained open at the time of the attack, but MI5 never detected any signs of attack planning. 'Operation Begonia' included a 'significant amount of coverage' the ISC said, but it was suspended twice – from February to April 2016 and from March to May 2017 – due to competing pressures from higher- priority investigations. It was downgraded in September 2016 and on May 5 2017, MI5 were minded to close the investigation, but decided first to increase coverage in order to ensure they had a full picture of the risk posed by Butt. Discussions were continuing about how he would be managed and what ongoing investigative actions were required at the time the attack took place. MI5 had received one piece of intelligence on Zaghba in June 2016 from Italian liaison regarding Zaghba's attempted travel from Italy to Istanbul in March 2016. Victims (top row left to right) Christine Archibald, James McMullan, Alexandre Pigeard, Sebastien Belanger, (bottom row left to right) Kirsty Boden, Sara Zelenak, Xavier Thomas and Ignacio Echeverria The Italian authorities assessed that he wanted to travel onwards to Syria and requested traces on Zaghba from MI5. Zaghba had attempted to fly from Marconi airport, Bologna, to Istanbul on March 15, telling he was going to Istanbul 'to be a terrorist' before immediately correcting himself to 'tourist'. MI6 was informed on April 15 and traces were requested for any contacts he had in the UK with individuals linked to Islamist extremism. The note was 'triaged' but was not translated by MI6 until 49 days later and, as a result, MI5 did not receive the note until six days after that. The committee heard there was no record of an MI5 response, and the note was not filed in MI5's corporate system. The report said that 'regardless of operational demands, an eight-week delay between the receipt of a trace request from a partner agency and onward dissemination is far too long.' MI5 had also received a number of strands of intelligence regarding a Moroccan male named Rashid, who they assessed to be a social associate of Butt, now thought to be Redouane.

Manchester: Suicide bomber visited extremist in jail and went to Libya unchallenged Salman Abedi, seen on CCTV a few days before the attack Salman Abedi, 22, from Manchester, detonated a homemade bomb in the foyer of Manchester Arena on May 22 2017 at the end of a concert by Ariana Grande. The report criticised how he was able to visit a prisoner who was a known extremist and travel back and forth to Libya before the attack. Abedi was briefly investigated by MI5 in 2014 when he was suspected of being an individual who had been observed acting suspiciously alongside an existing Subject of Interest (SOI). The investigation into Abedi ended due to his limited contact with the SOI and because he was assessed as 'not identical with the individual mentioned in the original reporting'. Between 2015 and 2017, the authorities received further reporting about Abedi's activities and an internal MI5 process raised his case in March 2017 for potential further investigations. However final decisions had not taken place by the time he launched his attack. Dominic Grieve, chairman of the ISC said: 'There were a number of failures in the handling of Salman Abedi's case and while it is impossible to say whether these would have prevented the devastating attack on 22 May, we have concluded that, as a result of the failings, potential opportunities to prevent it were missed.' Abedi's victims were youngsters who had gone to a pop concert and never came home

Finsbury Park: Loner had no known links to far-right groups Darren Osbourne was not known to security services Darren Osbourne, 48, from Cardiff drove a vehicle into a group of people gathered near a mosque in Finsbury Park in north London on June 19 2017, killing Makram Ali. He was said to have had an extensive criminal history dating back to 1984, including 33 convictions for 102 offences ranging from offences against the person to drugs and theft. The ISC report said the post-attack investigation indicated that Osborne acted alone. He had not been investigated by MI5 or Counter-Terrorism Police before launching his attack and was 'not known to be a member of, or have links to, any extremist right-wing groups.'

====== 2393 ========

MILLIONAIRES ARE MORE LIKELY TO BE NARCISSISTS WHO THINK THEY'RE 'VERY SPECIAL'

From Donald Trump to Mick Jagger, the super-rich are often accused of being narcissists.

But a study has found that wealthy people really do think they are something special.

Researchers who questioned 130 millionaires in Germany found they were more extroverted and conceited than the general population.

Donald Trump has been accused of being a narcissist in the past

They were more focused on themselves and ‘getting ahead’ than their relationship with others and ‘getting along’. But their competitive streak may be partly due to the fact that most participants were older men. Millionaires were more likely to agree they were a ‘very special person’ who deserved ‘to be seen as a great personality’.

Experts compared their answers in personality tests with those of 23,000 ordinary people. But as well as being more narcissistic, the millionaires were more emotionally stable and conscientious.

Dr Marius Leckelt, who led the study from the Universities of Munster and Mainz, said: ‘Our findings of personality differences between the millionaires and the general population fit the stereotypes about “the rich” quite well, although the stereotypes are exaggerated...’

The study, published in the British Journal of Psychology, also found that millionaires were more educated and ‘open’.

====== 2394 ========

GOLDMAN SACHS OFFERS ITS UK STAFF EMERGENCY NANNIES TO HELP LOOK AFTER ILL CHILDREN

Banking giant Goldman Sachs has offered staff emergency nannies to look after ill children and elderly relatives as part of their latest push to reduce its gender pay gap.

London employees of Goldman will receive an extension of the US investment bank's backup care programme. Part of the scheme will see nanny care for ill children and same service for dependent family members who need help unexpectedly.

Goldman, which employs around 6,000 people in the UK, has been on a drive to reduce its gender pay gap, partly caused by many senior positions being taken by men.

London employees of Goldman will receive an extension of the US investment bank's backup care programme (stock image)

Recently it has offered free gender reassignment surgery and IVF fertility treatments. The latter has been seen as a ploy to keep female staff, as typically many women walk away from the job due to its unsocialable lifestyle.

It also launched a programme to ship new mothers' breast milk back to their children if they worked overseas.

Goldman was one of the first corporate firms to introduce 'lactation rooms' for women to express milk and it also runs free pre-natal fitness classes at its office gym. It also has an on-site daycare where employees' children are cared for 20 days each year for free.

Goldman's US offices will deliver freezing kits to nursing bankers' hotel rooms, and that the expressed milk will be delivered by courier.

In a statement regarding the new nanny service for London workers, Goldman said: 'The firm recognises that backup care is an essential benefit when your usual care arrangements break down.'

Workers will have access to 20 days of in-home care per child or dependent adult each year. Staff will have to pay just £4 per hour to use the service, while free on-site childcare is also on offer.

Goldman has signed up to the UK women in finance charter, which aims to raise the proportion of women in senior positions to at least 30 per cent by 2023.

The move is part of a ploy to help balance the gender pay gap in the firm (stock image)

Commenting on its recently released gender pay gap figures in the UK, Goldman said lower pay for women was due to its 'current reality that there are more men than women in senior positions in our organisation'.

The mean pay gap across Goldman Sachs International was 55.5%, based on hourly pay over the 12 months to April 2017, while the median pay gap was 36.4%.

Sally Boyle, the bank's international head of human capital management, said the policy was a result of continuing conversations with staff.

She said: 'Providing care to children, elderly parents or other dependants is a significant part of many employees' lives. It's important we recognise the challenges that can come from balancing these commitments with work and do everything we can to support our employees and their families when the need arises.'

====== 2395 ========

VIDEO: SHANNAN WATTS, MURDERED WIFE OF CHRIS WATTS, VISITS IN-LAWS

0:27

'Get in a girl's face?' Black Friday overload as fight breaks out

====== 2396 ========

VIDEO: THE STORY BEHIND VIRAL SENSATION OF ACCIDENTAL THANKSGIVING INVITE

Video: Accidental Thanksgiving invitee tells story behind viral sensation

Jamal Hinton and girlfriend Mikaela tell the story behind the viral internet sensation and now third year tradition after grandma Wanda Dench accidentally invited him to Thanksgiving dinner.

====== 2397 ========

VIDEO: NYPD SAID A WOMAN IN QUEENS, NEW YORK, FOUGHT OFF MALE WITH A BITE

Video: NYPD said a woman in Queens fought off man with a well-placed bite

Police in Queens, New York say a woman took a bite out of a man who allegedly attacked her and forced her to perform oral sex. NYPD have released photos and footage of a 21-year-old man they are looking for in...

====== 2398 ========

VIDEO: SHAQ COMFORTS A FAMILY AFTER WITNESSING THEIR HEAD-ON-COLLISION

Video: Shaq comforts a family after witnessing their head-on-collision

NBA legend, Shaquille O'Neal, was about to give away turkeys when he and Broward County Sheriff's Office witnessed a head-on collision. Shaq rushed to comfort the family with small children after witnessing the...

====== 2399 ========

VIDEO: MISSOURI OFFICIALS ANNOUNCE CRIMES FILED AGAINST THOMAS BRUCE

0:27

'Get in a girl's face?' Black Friday overload as fight breaks out

====== 2400 ========

HILLARY CLINTON: EUROPE NEEDS TO HANDLE IMMIGRATION OR IT COULD ELECT A TRUMP

Hillary Clinton warned Europe to get a handle on immigration or it could lead to the election of a Donald Trump of its own.

The former presidential candidate told the Guardian that immigration was inflaming voters and contributed to Trump's election in the United States and Britains' vote to leave the European Union.

She called on European leaders to send a strong signal showing they are 'not going to be able to continue provide refuge and support'.

Hillary Clinton warned Europe to get a handle on immigration or it could lead to the election of a Donald Trump of its own

Clinton said her rival Donald Trump won because he played on voters' fears

'I think Europe needs to get a handle on migration because that is what lit the flame,' Clinton said to the newspaper.

She praised German leader Angela Merkel, who has been struggling with the wrath of voters in her country, who are furious over Merkel's open-door policy.

'I admire the very generous and compassionate approaches that were taken particularly by leaders like Angela Merkel, but I think it is fair to say Europe has done its part, and must send a very clear message – 'we are not going to be able to continue provide refuge and support' – because if we don't deal with the migration issue it will continue to roil the body politic,' Clinton said.

The former secretary of state, who lost to Trump in a bitter fight in the 2016 presidential election, urged leader not to neglect race issues that she said were behind her loss.

She charged Trump with exploiting racial politics in order to the win the election and continuing that policy while he is in office.

'The use of immigrants as a political device and as a symbol of government gone wrong, of attacks on one's heritage, one's identity, one's national unity has been very much exploited by the current administration here,' she said.

Clinton praised German leader Angela Merkel's handling of the immigration issue

Theresa May (pictured giving a statement on the steps of Downing Street) has struggled with the Brexit issue

'There are solutions to migration that do not require clamping down on the press, on your political opponents and trying to suborn the judiciary, or seeking financial and political help from Russia to support your political parties and movements,' she added.

Brexit, described by Clinton as the biggest act of national economic self-harm in modern history, 'was largely about immigration,' she said.

Brexit talks have divided the United Kingdom and seen officials exit British PM Theresa May's cabinet.

May declared she had 'honoured the referendum' after dramatically sealing a Brexit deal with Brussels that would bring an end to free movement and allow Britain to strike trade deals around the world.

====== 2401 ========

CLEANING LADY IS JAILED FOR TEN YEARS IN GREECE FOR LYING ON HER CV ABOUT ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DATES

A Greek cleaning lady has been sentenced to 10 years in jail for lying about her elementary school record.

The 53-year-old woman had worked at a publicly-funded nursery for 15 years until a review showed she had lied about her primary school education.

She claimed she had attended her elementary school in Greece for six years, which is typically done from the ages of six to 12.

The Greek cleaning lady has been sentenced to 10 years in jail for lying about her elementary school record, a school she would have attended from six to aged 12 [File photo]

It was then discovered she only spent five years at the school.

She had also doctored a false certificate stating she had completed six years, a requirement which helped her get a job as a cleaner.

The woman - who has not been named - was found to have altered her school certificate.

It was not uncommon four decades ago for some Greek children to drop out of school early, particularly in rural areas.

She was charged with defrauding the public, the Athens News Agency reported.

A regional court handed down the sentence earlier this month, in a court ruling which has provoked uproar around the country.

The 53-year-old woman had doctored a false certificate stating she had completed six years of primary education [File photo]

The Hellenic League for Human Rights said: 'This decision is not simply inhuman. It is another very indicative sign of permanent pathogens in the criminal justice system,'

A senior prosecutor for the Supreme Court will review the legal reasoning of the regional court next week, judicial sources said.

====== 2402 ========

WOMEN MARCH IN DUBLIN IN UNDERWEAR AFTER LAWYER SAID GIRL'S THONG SUGGESTED CONSENT IN RAPE TRIAL

Protesters were once again on the streets of Dublin city centre today to highlight injustices in how rape trials are conducted in Ireland.

The resumed demonstration is a response to a recent case in Co Cork that sparked outrage after a defence barrister referred to the 17-year-old complainant's underwear during a trial in which a 27-year-old man was acquitted of rape.

Activists wore revealing outfits to protest against the shaming of victims for their clothes and painted slogans such as 'this is not consent' and 'I'm not asking for it' on their bodies.

Protestors Stacie Ellen Murphy, Alanna Cassidy and Lena Seale walk in their underwear along Grafton Street, Dublin, in support of victims of sexual violence

(Left to right) Protestors Stacie Ellen Murphy, Alanna Cassidy and Lena Seale launched a fresh protest today a week after the initial demonstration where feminists protested the result of a court case that saw a man, 27, acquitted of raping a 17-year-old in Cork

Since the not guilty verdict in the Cork rape trial, dozens of women have shared pictures of their underwear online under the hashtag #ThisIsNotConsent

The defendant's lawyer suggested to jurors that the teenager's lacy underwear meant she was 'open to meeting someone and being with someone.'

The young woman's thong was then passed around the courtroom, leading a female Irish MP to hold up a lace thong in parliament to highlight 'routine victim-blaming'.

Today's renewed protest follows on from last week's mass demonstration organised by a number of feminist organisations, in which participants held up underwear and placards that read 'Stop victim blaming in courts' while chanting 'Clothes are not consent'.

Since then, dozens of women have shared pictures of their underwear online under the hashtag #ThisIsNotConsent to express solidarity with the teenager in Cork and protest against the verdict.

Protestor Stacie Ellen Murphy points to a slogan on her chest while protesting along Grafton Street, Dublin on Thursday

Protestor Stacie Ellen Murphy walks in her underwear along Grafton Street, Dublin, on Thursday in support of victims of sexual violence after a jury was given a 17-year-old's underwear which was offered as proof that she was 'open to meeting someone'

A man takes a selfie with feminist protestors Stacie Ellen Murphy, Alanna Cassidy and Lena Seale

Meanwhile minister Ruth Coppinger held up a pair of frilly underwear in parliament.

She asked lawmakers: 'Why is nothing yet being done to stop the routine use of rape myths in trials, and how concerned is this Government about the chilling effect this is having on victims coming forward?

'It might seem embarrassing to show a pair of thongs here in this incongruous of the Dail.

The #ThisIsNotConsent protest went viral online after the rape trial and was even used by minister Ruth Coppinger (pictured, Lena Seale at the Dublin protest today)

'But the reason I'm doing it: how do you think a... woman feels at the incongruous setting of her underwear being shown in a court?

'How heroic do you have to be to pursue a rape trial in this country?'

Tweeting about her decision afterward, she added: 'I hear cameras cut away from me when I displayed this underwear in Dail.

'In courts victims can have their underwear passed around as evidence and it's within the rules, hence need to display in Dáil. #ThisIsNotConsent.'

The protests started in a private Facebook group called Mna na hEireann - meaning Women of Ireland - after the case concluded.

Hundreds of women marched in Dublin last Wednesday carrying banners with the hashtag 'ThisIsNotConsent' on them, after an online campaign started the movement

Women took to the streets across Ireland brandishing thongs, including in O'Connell Street in Dublin (pictured)

====== 2403 ========

CIA HAVE RECORDING OF SAUDI CROWN PRINCE SAYING 'SILENCE KHASHOGGI'

Journalist Jamal Khashoggi was killed at the Saudi consulate in Istanbul where he went to pick up some papers required for his upcoming wedding

The CIA are reportedly in possession of a damning recording of Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman giving the order to murder Jamal Khashoggi.

The de facto Saudi leader can be heard calling for journalist Jamal Khashoggi to be 'silenced as soon as possible' in a 'smoking gun' audio recording, Turkey's Hurriyet Daily news reported.

The audio is said to be from phone call wiretapped by the US between Crown Prince Mohammed and his brother Khaled bin Salman, who is the gulf kingdom's ambassador to the United States.

According to Hurriyet news, CIA Director Gina Haspel 'signalled' the existence of the highly incriminating tape during her trip to Ankara last month.

Hurriyet columnist Abdulkadir Selvi claimed that a if thorough international investigation into the murder were opened, it would reveal even more 'jaw-dropping evidence' because the CIA has tapped many more phone calls than the public knows about.

Saudi Arabia has made clear that it will not toelrate criticism of its leadership - The custodian of the two holy mosques King Salman (left) and the crown prince Mohammad bin Salman (right)

The Turkish President Recip Tayepp Erdogan has previously said he shared recordings of the 59-year-old's murder with the UK and the US.

Erdogan may meet with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman during a visit to Argentina for the G20 summit, his spokesman said today.

State-owned Anadolu news agency quoted Ibrahim Kalin as saying, 'We're looking at the programme. It could happen', in response to a question whether the two leaders would make contact during the summit.

Saudi Foreign Minister Adel Al-Jubeir said Wednesady: 'In Saudi Arabia our leadership is a red line'

In previous recordings Khashoggi, a mild critic of the Saudi regime, reportedly says: 'Release my arm! What do you think you are doing?,' shortly after entering the consulate, and later: 'I'm suffocating... Take this bag off my head, I'm claustrophobic'.

The Turkish media also reported that in a taped conversation between members of the 'hit squad', one of them shouts to the journalist: 'Traitor! You will be brought to account,' and other complains about having to wear his clothing to act as a decoy after his murder.

Saudi Arabia today warned criticism of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman is a 'red line' as western countries' continue to probe into Khashoggi's murder.

This CCTV photo, obtained by the Washington Post, shows the last moment Jamal Khashoggi is seen alive, walking into the Saudi Arabian consulate in Istanbul on Tuesday

The large black van with tinted windows was driven all the way up to the entrance of the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, where it had been claimed Khashoggi was murdered and his remains dismembered and dumped

A man seen on CCTV a few hours after Khashoggi entered the consulate in Istanbul appearing to be wearing Khashoggi's clothing

Saudi Foreign Minister Adel al-Jubeir said Wednesday that calls for the crown prince to be held accountable for the grisly killing of Khashoggi at the Saudi consulate in Istanbul last month would not be tolerated.

Meanwhile US President Donald Trump heaped praise on the kingdom in defiance of warnings he was giving Riyadh a pass on a journalist's grisly murder.

Trump praised Saudi Arabia for keeping oil prices low - the main strand of his argument against punishing Riyadh even though the CIA reportedly found strong evidence that the crown prince, the de facto Saudi leader, was involved in the murder.

The former government adviser, pictured outside the BBC in London, had lived in self-imposed exile in the United States since last year to avoid possible arrest

'In Saudi Arabia our leadership is a red line. The custodian of the two holy mosques (King Salman) and the crown prince are a red line,' Jubeir told the BBC.

'They represent every Saudi citizen and every Saudi citizen represents them. And we will not tolerate any discussion of anything that is disparaging towards our monarch or our crown prince.'

Khashoggi, a US resident who wrote for The Washington Post and had been critical of Prince Mohammed, was lured to the Saudi consulate on October 2, killed and reportedly dismembered.

After lengthy denials, Saudi authorities admitted responsibility and said 21 people had been taken into custody. It has reportedly called for the death penalty against five men connected to the killing but repeatedly denied involvement at the top echelons of its leadership.

Donald Trump (right) has made it clear he will not sanction the crown prince (front left) even if he was involved in the murder of Khashoggi because of what he said were more important US interests including billions of Saudi investment

However, their claims have been met with scepticism from western countries.

In a thinly veiled comment aimed at the Saudi royals, the EU's top diplomat Federica Mogherini said on Thursday that all those 'really responsible' for the murder should be brought to justice.

'Those responsible, really responsible for this terrible murder have to be accountable,' she told a news conference in Ankara with Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu.

A CIA analysis leaked to the US media went even further, reportedly pointing the finger directly at the crown prince.

But Trump, on holiday at his Florida Mar-a-Lago Club on Wednesday, doubled down on a statement from Tuesday that he was essentially ignoring the killing of Khashoggi because of what he said were more important US strategic and commercial interests.

'Oil prices getting lower. Great! Like a big Tax Cut for America and the World. Enjoy! $54, was just $82,' he tweeted. 'Thank you to Saudi Arabia, but let's go lower!'

Jubeir insisted that Prince Mohammed had not been involved in the killing.

Criticism of the Saudi royals is banned in the gulf kingdom, and Jamal Khashoggi's son Salah was brought to meet Mohammed bin Salman (right) amid speculation that the prince ordered his father's murder

'We have made that very clear. We have investigations ongoing and we will punish the individuals who are responsible for this,' he said.

He called on Turkey to come forward with all its evidence about the slaying and stop leaking out information.

The foreign minister said the murder was a 'rogue operation' by intelligence officers and any possible US sanctions on Saudi Arabia would be short-sighted.

====== 2404 ========

BRIDES REVEAL THEIR BIGGEST WEDDING DAY REGRETS

For many people their wedding day is one of the biggest events in their lifetime but there are those who have regrets about this most momentous occasion.

According to Stay at Home Mum, a poll of 1,000 people revealed that 82 per cent have regrets about at least one aspect of the special day.

From falling for a scam to the bride's requests being ignored by the DJ, the site shared various Australian brides' biggest grievances.

FEMAIL takes a look.

According to Stay at Home Mum there are a variety of Australian women who would have done their wedding differently if given the chance

Regretting hiring the photographer

The site's poll revealed that 30 per cent of people said they would have used a different wedding photographer as they said their friends' wedding photos were better than theirs.

One woman said that although the preview shots their photographer showed them were amazing, the photos from their own day were atrocious.

She explained that the man photoshopped them too much as he put a blue filter over the grey clouds.

Making matters worse they paid a lot for him and when he wouldn't give them the rights for the photos they ended up paying an extra $600.

One woman said that although the preview shots their photographer showed them were amazing, the photos from their own day were atrocious

Spending too much money on one day

Many people said they now realise they should have spent less money on the special day so that they could save for a house deposit.

One woman even said she wished they had eloped.

'We had a fairly small wedding (70 people, cost about $11,000) but we are now a one-income family and stuck renting until I go back to work,' she said.

'The cost of our wedding was almost half a house deposit. If we worked hard and just eloped, we could have possibly bought a house before having our kids, instead of throwing money away with rent.'

Wishing they picked a different DJ

A former bride explained that the DJ ignored her and her husband's requests and also got into a fight with family members.

'He ignored many of our song requests decided on before the wedding and got into a physical fight with my brother,' she said.

A former bride explained that the DJ ignored her and her husband's requests and also got into a fight with family members

Letting other people hijack the wedding

A respondent said she let other people choose things because at the time she thought they didn't matter in the grand scheme of things.

This meant she let others decide on the venue, the colour of bridesmaid dresses, the style of food and the type of music.

Needless to say this is a major regret that she has now as the day felt like it didn't belong to her.

Another woman was in a similar boat as she spent a lot of her time trying to please her family members which resulted in her holding resentment towards them.

====== 2405 ========

ARRESTED NISSAN EXEC KELLY SAYS GHOSN PAID...

TOKYO, Nov 24 (Reuters) - A former Nissan Motor executive arrested along with ex-chairman Carlos Ghosn has defended Ghosn's compensation, saying it was discussed with other officials and paid out appropriately, Japanese public broadcaster NHK said on Saturday.

In his first reported comments since his arrest on Monday, Kelly was also quoted by NHK as saying that he had worked for the good of Nissan rather than just following Ghosn's instructions.

Japanese prosecutors say Ghosn and Kelly conspired to understate Ghosn's remuneration by about half the 10 billion yen ($88 million) he earned at Nissan over five years from 2010. The company has also cited other, multiple infractions.

"The former chairman's compensation was discussed with those in the related department and carried out appropriately. I was not just following the former chairman's orders, but working for the good of the company," Kelly said, according to the report.

Nissan's board voted unanimously on Thursday to remove Ghosn and Kelly from their positions. Both were arrested after a Nissan investigation uncovered evidence of serious wrongdoing including under-reporting remuneration and personal use of company assets. (Reporting by Ritsuko Ando; Editing by Stephen Coates)

====== 2406 ========

AP PHOTOS: A SELECTION OF PICTURES FROM THE PAST WEEK

Here's your look at highlights from the weekly AP photo report, a gallery featuring a mix of front-page photography, the odd image you might have missed and lasting moments our editors think you should see.

This week's gallery includes children walking through the Cathedral of Light, an illuminated trail at Kew Gardens, in London, French President Emmanuel Macron and Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel holding a joint news conference in Brussels, a demonstrator chanting anti-government slogans in Haiti and a woman participating in a march against sexism and gender violence in Chile.

___

This gallery contains photos from the week of Nov. 18-23, 2018.

See the latest AP photo galleries: https://apimagesblog.com

___

Children walk through the Cathedral of Light as part of the illuminated trail through Kew Gardens magnificent after-dark landscape, lit up by over one million twinkling lights in London, Wednesday, Nov. 21, 2018. (AP Photo/Frank Augstein)

Follow AP photographers on Twitter: http://twitter.com/AP/lists/ap-photographers

Follow AP Images on Twitter: http://twitter.com/AP_Images

Visit AP Images online: http://www.apimages.com http://www.apimages.com/

___

This gallery was produced by Courtney Dittmar in New York.

Backdropped by the iconic Suleymaniye Mosque in Istanbul, people are reflected in a glass as they walk on a bridge over the Golden Horn, Wednesday, Nov. 21, 2018. (AP Photo/Emrah Gurel)

French President Emmanuel Macron, left, talks to journalists during a joint news conference with Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel, right, following their meeting at the Egmont Palace in Brussels, Monday, Nov. 19, 2018. President Macron and the first lady are on a two day state visit to Belgium. (AP Photo/Francisco Seco)

A pedestrian makes their way down a stairway through a row of trees during a rainy autumn day, in Pamplona, northern Spain, Tuesday, Nov. 20, 2018. (AP Photo/Alvaro Barrientos)

A woman checks her phone as balloons move through Sixth Avenue during the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York, Thursday, Nov. 22, 2018. (AP Photo/Andres Kudacki)

A demonstrator chants anti-government slogans during a protest demanding to know how Petro Caribe funds have been used by the current and past administrations, on the sidelines of events marking the 215th anniversary of independence Battle of Vertieres in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, Sunday, Nov. 18, 2018. Much of the financial support to help Haiti rebuild after the 2010 earthquake comes from Venezuela's Petro Caribe fund, a 2005 pact that gives suppliers below-market financing for oil and is under the control of the central government. (AP Photo/Dieu Nalio Chery)

Indian laborers stand on scaffolding shift steel rods from the ground to the top of an under construction hospital building Thursday, Nov. 22, 2018, in Greater Noida, near New Delhi, India. Building work in the capital region has resumed after authorities last week lifted a ban on construction activities they had imposed to combat air pollution. (AP Photo/R S Iyer)

A woman with her face painted takes part in a march against sexism and gender violence, in Santiago, Chile, Thursday, Nov. 22, 2018. (AP Photo/Esteban Felix)

A Sikh boy reacts to a jovial comment from another as he prepares to display his martial art skills during a religious procession ahead of the birth anniversary of the first Sikh guru, Guru Nanak, on Monday, Nov. 19, 2018, in Hyderabad, India. The birth anniversary of Guru Nanak will be marked on Nov. 23. (AP Photo/Mahesh Kumar A., File)

A traveler wheels his luggage through Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport on Thanksgiving in Atlanta, Thursday, Nov. 22, 2018. The AAA auto club predicts that 54.3 million Americans will travel at least 50 miles from home between Wednesday and Sunday during the Thanksgiving holiday weekend. (AP Photo/David Goldman)

====== 2407 ========

U.S. SERVICE MEMBER KILLED IN AFGHANISTAN - NATO

KABUL, Nov 24 (Reuters) - A U.S. service member was killed in Afghanistan on Saturday, the NATO-led Resolute Support mission said in a statement, bringing the U.S. combat death toll this year to eight. The identity of the service member and details about the incident will be shared at a later stage, said Debra Richardson spokesperson for the Resolute Support in Afghanistan.

The Pentagon says there are about 14,000 U.S. service members in Afghanistan. The U.S. military´s mission is focused mainly on guiding and aiding Afghan forces battling the Taliban, which was ousted from power in 2001.

More than 2,400 U.S. forces have died in the 17-year-old war, America´s longest conflict. (Reporting by Rupam Jain; Editing by Michael Perry)

====== 2408 ========

NISSAN FORMER EXECUTIVE KELLY DEFENDS GHOSN...

TOKYO, Nov 24 (Reuters) - Former top Nissan Motor executive Greg Kelly, arrested with former chairman Carlos Ghosn over alleged financial misconduct, has said Ghosn's compensation was appropriate and had been discussed with other officials, public broadcaster NHK said on Saturday.

NHK, without naming sources, said Kelly had made the statements to people he had met since his arrest.

Nissan's board voted unanimously on Thursday to remove Ghosn and Kelly from their positions. Both were arrested earlier in the week after a Nissan investigation uncovered evidence of serious wrongdoing including under-reporting remuneration and personal use of company assets. (Reporting by Ritsuko Ando; Editing by Stephen Coates)

====== 2409 ========

INGRAM, JAMES LEAD LAKERS PAST REELING JAZZ

Brandon Ingram scored 24 points and LeBron James added 22 points and 10 rebounds as the Los Angeles Lakers defeated the visiting Utah Jazz 90-83 on Friday to win their third straight game.

Los Angeles led 79-76 with 5:28 to play before grabbing momentum with a 9-3 run over the ensuing four minutes and taking an 88-79 advantage down the stretch. A bucket and two free throws from the Jazz's Alec Burks cut the lead to 88-83.

Ingram canned a pair of free throws with 19.7 seconds to play to cement the win. The Lakers (11-7) have won seven of their past eight outings.

The Jazz (8-11) have lost five of their past six games and nine of their last 13 but did snap a streak of allowing at least 113 points in its past four losses.

JaVale McGee added 12 points for the Lakers while Lonzo Ball took 10 rebounds for Los Angeles.

Burks led the Jazz with 17 points off the bench, while Joe Ingles scored 16, Rudy Gobert added 13 points, and Derrick Favors hit for 10 points in the setback. Jazz guard Donovan Mitchell was forced from the game early in the second quarter with a rib contusion and did not return.

The Lakers led by as many as 11 points in the first quarter before settling for a 22-16 lead after the first 12 minutes of play. Ingram had half of Los Angeles' points in the period.

A layup by Ball with 8:22 to play in the second quarter allowed the Lakers a 30-22 advantage but Utah finished the period on an 18-8 run to tie the game at 38 at intermission.

Ingram led the Lakers with 13 points in the first two quarters while Ingles' 12 points paced Utah.

The Jazz finally moved in front at 61-59 on a Burks dunk with 1:47 to play in the third quarter and led 63-62 before James came in off the bench with 4.9 seconds remaining and plowed down the court before drawing a foul and making both free throws to grant Los Angeles a 63-62 lead heading into the final quarter.

The Lakers return to the floor on Sunday when they host Orlando. Utah stays on the road for a dustup against Sacramento, also on Sunday.

--Field Level Media

====== 2410 ========

DURANT SPARKS WARRIORS, WHO END 4-GAME SKID

Kevin Durant scored 14 of his game-high 32 points in a second-quarter run-away Friday night, as the Golden State Warriors snapped a four-game losing streak with a 125-97 victory over the Portland Trail Blazers in Oakland, Calif.

Klay Thompson was right behind with 31 points as the Warriors, who shot 56.5 percent overall and 53.1 percent on 3-pointers, beat the Trail Blazers for the eighth consecutive time at home.

Portland led 29-24 in the second minute of the second period before Jonas Jerebko helped Golden State turn things around with back-to-back 3-pointers.

Durant had a 3-pointer and a three-point play among his 14 points in what turned out to be a 35-11 burst that produced a 59-40 lead late in the half.

The Warriors went on to lead by as many as 22 points in the third period before coasting home.

Golden State was once again without Stephen Curry (strained groin) and Draymond Green (bruised toe). Curry was in a car accident earlier in the day, but escaped uninjured.

Thompson made four 3-pointers and shot 12-for-21 overall.

Quinn Cook chipped in with 19 points and Shaun Livingston scored 11 off the bench for Golden State, which had opened a four-game homestand with a 123-95 blowout loss to Oklahoma City on Wednesday night.

Damian Lillard had a team-high 23 points to go with eight assists, and Jusuf Nurkic had 22 points for the Trail Blazers, who completed a six-game trip by going 2-4.

Portland appeared to run out of gas at the end of the 10-day journey, losing 143-100 at Milwaukee on Wednesday before suffering Friday's 28-point defeat.

CJ McCollum scored 19 points and Al-Farouq Aminu added 12 for the Trail Blazers, who won the season series from the Warriors 2-1 last year.

Portland shot 40.9 percent.

--Field Level Media

====== 2411 ========

RUGBY AUST CEO CASTLE BACKS PLAYER AXINGS

Rugby Australia CEO Raelene Castle has backed the decision to stand down Kurtley Beale and Adam Ashley-Cooper for the Wallabies' Test against England at Twickenham.

The duo were stood down from Sunday's (0200 AEDT) game after the Wallabies leadership group, led by skipper Michael Hooper, alerted coach Michael Cheika on Tuesday about a breach of team protocol at the squad's hotel in Cardiff earlier this month.

The incident happened after the 9-6 loss to Wales.

The two players were having drinks in the hotel bar with Ashley-Cooper's sister-in-law and two of her friends.

The five then went to the players' room to order some food before the women departed by midnight.

Although the incident is being treated as minor breach by Cheika, team rules stipulate that guests are not permitted into the rooms of players.

Neither player has been fined and remained with the squad in London.

Castle said while she felt some sympathy for them, the correct steps were taken.

"The team has got standards, they put those standards in place for a reason," Castle told reporters in London.

"The two boys have breached those standards and the playing group and Michael came to me and said 'this is what we're recommending on the situation', and I support them in that stance 100 per cent.

"This is a situation where two boys brought some friends and family back into their hotel without thinking of the implications of that, because they were friends and family.

"But once it was pointed out to them that the rule was there for a reason, they recognised that they had erred, and they accepted the team and Michael's position."

The incident is another footnote to a horrendous year for Australian rugby.

Castle will conduct a review of the season which will be completed before Christmas.

She said while Cheika has her support the reasons for a campaign which has returned just four wins from 12 matches must be identified.

"We believe that we've got a head coach who's experienced, that's led a party through a World Cup before," she said.

"There's no doubt, we have got a review to do and we need to look under every cover and make sure we've identified the things that aren't working.

"But we're there shoulder to shoulder and ultimately we're there because we believe that we can be successful at the World Cup."

Castle, who recently marked her first year in the job, said criticism is understandable given Australia open their World Cup campaign in less than 10 months.

However, she refused to rule out the prospect of changes to Cheika's backroom team.

"What a review process is, is making sure we're very honest and every element of the campaign will be reviewed," Castle said.

"Certainly, there's a greater level of curiosity with this one because we're going into a World Cup ... because you only get nine months of change or nine months to make any changes.

"In reality you've only got six weeks to make any changes before you go into that nine-month build up if that's what we identify in the review process."

====== 2412 ========

JIM MOLAN MISSES OUT ON SAFE SENATE TICKET

Senator Jim Molan has missed out on a safe senate spot for the next federal election, with former Wentworth Liberal pre-selection aspirant Andrew Bragg now bound for Canberra.

Long-time political aspirant Hollie Hughes placed first on the NSW Liberal senate ticket on Saturday, with Mr Bragg coming in second.

Senator Molan, who filled Nationals MP Fiona Nash's seat after she fell foul of the Australian citizenship crises in 2017, placed third in the Liberal pre-selection.

However, Senator Molan will be bumped to fourth under a coalition deal that gives the Nationals the third senate position.

Mr Bragg pulled out of the Liberal pre-selection race for Wentworth after striking a deal with the party for a senate spot.

====== 2413 ========

BANGLADESH LEADS WEST INDIES 11-4 AT LUNCH ON THIRD DAY

CHITTAGONG, Bangladesh (AP) - Left-arm spinner Shakib Al Hasan became the first Bangladeshi bowler to claim 200 test wickets as the hosts edged closer to victory by reducing West Indies to 11-4 at lunch on the third day of the first test on Saturday.

Shakib (2-5) and his fellow left-arm spinner Taijul Islam (2-0) shared four wickets between them to trigger the collapse while West Indies was chasing the target of 204 runs.

The Bangladesh allrounder also is the quickest to 3,000 runs and 200 wickets, achieving the feat in his 54th test to eclipse English allrounder Ian Botham who reached it in his 55th test.

Resuming the day on 55-5, Bangladesh was dismissed for 125 on an extremely difficult pitch.

Legspinner Devendra Bishoo was the pick of the bowler with 4-19, while offspinner Roston Chase took 3-18.

Mahmudullah hit 31 and Mushfiur Rahim added 19.

Shakib then dismissed opener Kraigg Brathwaite (8) via stumping with a flighted delivery to get to his 200 wicket.

The visitors were unable to resist the slump as Shakib and Taijul took three wickets in just seven balls for no runs on the eve of the lunch.

___

More AP sports: https://apnews.com/apf-sports and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports

====== 2414 ========

JOSE MOURINHO REVEALS HE WENT TO BELGIUM TO KEEP TABS ON ROMELU LUKAKU

Manchester United boss Jose Mourinho says he traveled to Belgium during the international break to gain insight on Romelu Lukaku.

Mourinho attended Belgium's 2-0 win against Iceland in Brussels on November 15 - and was not watching any of his own players, with neither Lukaku nor Marouane Fellaini involved for the hosts.

Fellaini, who had recently made his return to action after injury, was not part of the squad and has been working on his fitness at United's training ground.

Jose Mourinho revealed he traveled to Belgium during the recent international break

Lukaku sat the game out due to a hamstring problem, and the striker then did not travel with Belgium for Sunday's clash with Switzerland for the same reason.

A post from the striker on Instagram from earlier this week featured videos of him doing exercises, an image of him with Belgium physio Lieven Maesschalck, and a message thanking Move to Cure, a team of injury specialists overseen by Maesschalck.

Lukaku came off the bench in the 3-1 loss to Manchester City on November 11 having been sidelined for United's previous two matches by hamstring trouble.

His scoring record this season shows five goals for Belgium and four for United, and he has not netted in his last 10 appearances for the club.

Mourinho was asked ahead of Saturday's Premier League home clash with Crystal Palace - for which Lukaku has been declared 'ready with a little bit of a risk' - about his trip to Belgium.

The Manchester United boss wanted to keep tabs on the misfiring Romelu Lukaku

After joking that he went 'for the weather', he said: 'I went... mentally to be with Lukaku, to feel him, to see his situation, his injury.

'Roberto Martinez invited me to meet him, which I decided not to do, because I don't like to disturb people before matches.

'But I was with Roberto on the phone trying to feel, trying to understand the problem and evolution of the problem. And of course I like to watch football. I was in London, a couple of hours train, easy to go.'

While Lukaku and Fellaini are set for involvement on Saturday - along with Paul Pogba, Anthony Martial and Marcus Rashford, over whom there had also been questions marks regarding fitness - Eric Bailly is not.

The Belgian is without a goal in his last 10 appearances for the Premier League club

The defender has not played since being taken off early in the 3-2 win over Newcastle on October 6 when United were 2-0 down.

Mourinho said: 'The situation is that we have five central defenders, and it's a little bit difficult to try to find the best combination.

'I think Smalling and Lindelof are playing much better than at the beginning of the season. That couple is performing quite well. When we decide to make a rotation, we will make (one), when we need to.

'I can tell you, because he already knows, that Eric tomorrow is not playing and is not even on the bench. But don't be surprised that next Tuesday (when United host Young Boys in the Champions League) he plays.'

Lukaku has been struggling with a hamstring issue and was on the bench at Manchester City

Meanwhile, Mourinho has suggested what has been key to United goalkeeper David De Gea receiving criticism in Spain of late is Iker Casillas expressing his desire to make a comeback with the national team.

Porto goalkeeper Casillas, who won the most recent of his 167 caps in 2016, was quoted by Spanish media last week as saying he would be delighted to return if he received a call-up.

When asked about De Gea, Mourinho - Casillas' boss at Real Madrid from 2010 to 2013 - said: 'But why criticism in Spain? Do you know? I know.

'Because there is somebody very powerful that is thinking about jumping (into the team) again - but I think it's very difficult to jump when you have the best goalkeeper in the world in front of you.'

Mourinho said the individual used to play for Real and added: 'I like him. I was champion with him.'

Casillas, who lost his place in the Real team under Mourinho, has been quoted as telling Spain's Vamos he would have confronted the manager over certain things during the three-year spell if he had the chance again, having remained quiet at the time.

Portugal's Record reported being given a response to that by Mourinho, with him saying: 'When he says that he has never confronted me, that does not correspond to the truth.'

====== 2415 ========

MANCHESTER UNITED STARS ARRIVE AT LOWRY AHEAD OF CRYSTAL PALACE CLASH

Luke Shaw, Anthony Martial, Jesse Lingard and Marcus Rashford were among the Manchester United players to arrive at the Lowry Hotel on Friday ahead of their Premier League clash with Crystal Palace.

The four players came in for stinging criticism from manager Jose Mourinho this week after he said some of his young stars lacked the 'character' and 'personality' to play for the club.

United take on the Eagles desperate for three points in a bid to keep pace with the rest of their Premier League rivals battling it out for a place in the top four after an inconsistent start.

Marcus Rashford and Jesse Lingard sign autographs for fans outside the Lowry Hotel on Friday

Anthony Martial was among four players to come in for stinging criticism from Jose Mourinho

In a Spanish TV interview with former Barcelona star Hristo Stoichkov, Mourinho admitted some young players lack maturity.

'The people who surround the players, who protect them too much, give them too much care, too many excuses. Everyone has an excuse,' he said.

'People mature more slowly. For example, Luke Shaw, left back of the national team. He didn't know how to compete. He had great potential, yes, but didn't know how to compete.

'Martial, Lingard, Marcus Rashford — we're talking about great potential but who are missing a word I can't use but you like to use. They are missing a bit of that. Character, personality, as they say in Spain, bad blood, that natural aggression.'

Paul Pogba also arrived at the hotel on the eve of the Premier League game with Crystal Palace

Ander Herrera and David de Gea strolled into the lavish hotel on a cold night in Manchester

Alexis Sanchez will be hoping he can spark an improvement in his form after a poor run

Nemanja Matic speaks to a security officer outside the hotel as he makes his way inside

Mourinho declined to discuss those comments on Friday but it has been apparent for some time that he feels his squad is not sufficiently battle-hardened to challenge the best in Europe or the Premier League.

His comments came to light the day after striker Romelu Lukaku told team-mates who have fallen out with Mourinho to 'deal with it — you're a grown-a** man'.

United are eighth going into Saturday's home game against Crystal Palace although Mourinho believes he can lift them into the top four in the eight games left this year.

Martial, Lukaku, Paul Pogba and Marouane Fellaini are all available for Saturday despite withdrawing from international duty through injury. Shaw is suspended.

====== 2416 ========

MANCHESTER UNITED TO RELEASE BIZARRE LEOPARD-PRINT KIT FOR TEAM TO WEAR IN FIFA 19

Manchester United are set to release a garish leopard-print fourth kit that will only be used on FIFA 19.

United, along with Real Madrid, Juventus and Bayern Munich, will have fourth kits available to buy even though the teams themselves will not wear them in real life.

As Football Headlines reveals, adidas has teamed up with EA Sports for the sportswear giants four biggest teams. The shirt will cost supporters £60.

Manchester United are reportedly going to unveil a leopard-print fourth kit for FIFA 19

United, as well as Real Madrid (above), Bayern Munich and Juventus will have the new kits

The Juve strip is a metallic pink and white - it will be available on FIFA 19's Ultimate Team mode

The Bayern Munich strip is a blend of a vibrant orange aalongside a dark red

United's is certainly the brashest design, with Bayern's shirt orange and red, Madrid's a mix of dark and light blue and Juve's a metallic white and pink. In the game itself, the shirts can only be worn by teams in the Ultimate Team mode.

The Ultimate Team mode sees players build teams with existing players from any league around the world.

Higher calibre players - and kits for the team itself - can all be unlocked or bought using in-game currency.

====== 2417 ========

'I'VE GOT THIS CRAZY KILLER INSTINCT!' DEONTAY WILDER ISSUES WARNING TO HEAVYWEIGHT RIVAL TYSON FURY

To reach Deontay Wilder's grueling workplace at a sparse clearing on the outskirts of his home town, you have to cross the bridge over Black Warrior River.

This broad expanse of water, which moves as slowly as most of the other inhabitants, is named in honour of the legendary feathered chieftain who led the Muskogean people to a famous victory over Hernando de Soto and his Conquistadors at the Battle of Mabila in the bloody summer of 1540.

As is this city itself. Tuskaloosa - only the fourth letter has been changed by time - is described by historians as standing almost seven feet tall and possessed of phenomenal physical power and a commanding presence.

Deontay Wilder is ready for showdown with Tyson Fury in Los Angeles on December 1

It is considered likely that the few remaining native Americans still resident here are descended from the Muskogean and the Cherokee and Choctaw tribes with whom they merged into one Indian nation.

There are no prizes for guessing who the locals fondly imagine might have Tuskaloosa for his ancestor.

Wilder, at 6ft 7in, presents a dark and menacing figure when called to arms and would have flattened De Soto the murderous explorer with one mighty swipe of his right hand.

As he has every opponent in the course of bringing a world heavyweight title to a place better known these days for the University of Alabama's college football team.

The 6ft 7in American, who has won 39 of 40 fights by KO, is a menacing figure

Not many here seem fully aware of the champion in their midst and Wilder admits that America's love affairs with baseball, football and basketball overshadow his achievements.

Yet even though recognition of his 40 victories would have come more readily had he moved his base to, say, Las Vegas or New York, this is where the WBC champion prefers to hold court. In this corrugated shed. In the quiet solitude of the woods.

In touch with his roots. Not only his religious Tuscaloosa upbringing but also his origins of race and his disavowal of drugs. Whether or not that upsets Donald Trump or Tyson Fury.

The Bronze Bomber, as he styles himself, was in the final day of training camp before heading down to Los Angeles where he will defend his title against Fury the Gypsy King next Saturday night.

The WBC heavyweight champion is preparing for bout in his native Tuscaloosa, Alabama

It was to the other side of the river in 1963 that President Kennedy dispatched the National Guard to force the governor of Alabama, George Wallace, to stand aside and permit the admission of two African-American students to the state University.

Wilder ponders a question on racial prejudice in the Deep South and says: 'This is the heart of Dixie. There is a lot of history here. I feel I've been talking about this since the beginning of time. We've had 400 years of this stuff and, yes, it's still going on.

'The thing about being black is that people fear you because of what has happened in history. Other people don't understand what it's like to be looked upon because of your colour.

'Yet black people just want to have the same good life, to provide for their families like everyone else and be happy. But to say this is like beating an animal with a stick.

'They say do your own thing. But do you know about what was called Black Wall Street? When black people were able to have their own banks, their own hospitals, their own everything? They did their own thing but a white man just came along and burned it all down.

'When someone like me is outspoken on this it counts against me, with people who don't know what it's like to have this done to them.'

America's love affairs with baseball, football and basketball overshadow his achievement

Yet there is no angst in Wilder about how Alabama has flipped of late from being a Democrat stronghold to a Republican state. Perhaps because Governor Wallace is remembered as the Democrat who stood in the University doorway proclaiming: 'Segregation today. Segregation tomorrow. Segregation forever.'

Of President Trump, who has been accused of prejudice, he says: 'He came in as a billionaire, a rich and powerful man who believes in what he is doing. It is not enough for people just to complain when he does what he wants. The criticism is pointless unless positive action is taken.

'People get what they vote for. Be careful what you wish for. You can see the signs. You can see the person Trump is. We have to suffer the consequences of our own actions. But everyone has his judgement day.'

The words are spoken softly as he perches on the apron of the ring. There is none of the 'Bomb Squad' braggadocio with which he comes to the ring in his mask to temporarily separate every fighting man he has faced from his senses.

The Bronze Bomber in the final day of his training camp before heading down to Los Angeles

'I'm a different person outside the ropes,' he says. 'Tuscaloosa keeps me calm and collected. I didn't have to leave here to become the world heavyweight champion. The best heavyweight in the world. I didn't have to leave my home and my team and my people to be the Baddest Man on the Planet.

'I'm the guy from little Tuscaloosa who is beating up the big wide world. I keep knocking out the guys who have gone looking for the big name trainers in the big cities. I am tranquil here but come the fight I go through a transformation. It's a source of power. It's scary. My mind transforms.

'Beyonce would say I am having my man period. Maybe so. Everything irritates me. I'm no longer myself. That's why I can unleash all the power, all the energy. It gives me a crazy killer instinct. The mask [he is about to unveil a new gold one] keeps me shut away from the world for those moments with no distraction.

'People have a problem with me for saying I might kill a man in the ring but that's because I know my punches can do so much harm that people should go have their heads checked after they fight me.'

Then, when told that Fury had tested positive for nandrolone as well as admitting cocaine use when depressed, he says: 'I didn't know that. But if I used drugs I might really kill an opponent.'

Wilder believes he can challenge the skills of 6ft 9in Fury in eagerly-anticipated showdown

Wilder has fought returning drugs cheats in the past and says: 'If these guys want to put this stuff in their bodIes let them. I'm the one with the real power.

'When I fought Luis Ortiz I felt like I was the man against the machine but I still knocked him out. Any drugs he (Fury) may have taken are not going to make him a better fighter. There is nothing he can do to beat me.'

This all comes spilling out from a smile: 'I'm a happy person. I would be happy as an American or as a citizen of another country or living in the sea. I'm not trapped in Tuscaloosa. I'm a man of property now. I have a place in Atlanta as well, another in a California down-town and I'm in the process of getting one by the sea in Miami.

'Then I'm looking for something in the Philippines. My fiancee is half black half Asian. Also it's cheap over there. You can get a mansion with maids and security for fifty thousand dollars. Happy.'

Fury is renowned for his remarkable athletic movement for a man so huge, in his case two inches taller at 6ft 9in.

Now Wilder believes he can challenge even those skills, which famously confounded and defeated long-reigning world champion Wladimir Klitschko to give Fury his lineal heavyweight title to set against Wilder's WBC crown.

As he thunders the pads and his sparring partners he pirouettes like ballet dancer. He says: 'I owe this to a friend. She worked on my flexibility to the point where now I can raise a leg above my head while spinning round.' It is doubtful if that was an attribute possessed by Tuskaloosa.

If there is an optimistic omen to be found for Fury in the history of this corner of America it might be found in the clause in the contract for next Saturday in the Staples Center which provides for a second fight even if he loses, as long as the first is close and exciting.

The Battle of Mabila raged for 11 hours as the ground ran red, until a last fusillade of arrows and a manic charge led by the Paramount Chief sent the Spanish invaders fleeing into the woods.

But even though it is thought they lost De Soto at the death, his troops regrouped and returned that same year with armoured horses who punctured holes in the perimeter palisades, through which they poured with their heavier weapons to massacre almost everyone in the stockade. Tuskaloosa apparently included. You never know with rematches.

Wilder v Fury will be televised live on BT Sports Box Office late on December 1.

====== 2418 ========

SRI LANKA V ENGLAND SCORECARD: UPDATES FROM DAY TWO OF THE THIRD TEST IN COLOMBO

Moeen Ali and Adil Rashid resume at the crease looking to enforce England's position on day two of the third Test against Sri Lanka in Colombo.

England reached 312-7 at stumps on day one, where Jonny Bairstow scored a magnificent 110 on his return to the side, batting at No 3.

Other notable contributions saw Ben Stokes make 57 while England captain Joe Root fell four runs short of a half-century when he top-edged to mid-wicket off of Lakshan Sandakan's bowling.

But the day belonged to Bairstow, who was returning to the England side after missing the first Test through a twisted ankle before replacement Ben Foakes kept his place for the second Test after a debut century.

'It means a lot,’ Bairstow said of his sixth Test century. ‘There are different things you go through when you get castigated about being injured doing X, Y and Z, when people don’t actually see what’s gone on.

'I’m proud as punch of myself and everything that I’ve done over the last few weeks, because that injury potentially should have kept me out for six to eight weeks, and I’m back in four weeks and playing in a Test match.

'You’ve got to deliver when you’re asked to and you get left out of the side when you’ve not done too much wrong over the last couple of years. ‘All of a sudden, you’re asked to bat where you’ve not batted before, so you’re learning on the job.

‘You look at the challenges that have been put in front of me as a cricketer over a period of time and there’s been quite a few. I’d like to hope I’ve come through most challenges along the way, and I’m desperately proud. This past couple of weeks has been really tough.’

Follow the action from day two with Sportsmail's live scorecard.

====== 2419 ========

ANTHONY JOSHUA WILL NOT BE RINGSIDE FOR TYSON FURY V DEONTAY WILDER

Anthony Joshua has revealed why he will miss the huge fight between Tyson Fury and Deontay Wilder which will shape the next phase of his career.

Unified heavyweight champion Joshua is desperate to face American Wilder, who defends his WBC title against Fury in Los Angeles on December 1.

If Wilder successfully overcomes Fury it could set up a potential blockbuster showdown between the rival belt holders.

Anthony Joshua will not fly out to LA to watch Tyson Fury's fight with Deontay Wilder

The unified heavyweight champion is hoping the American wins so he can face him next year

However, if Fury wins and a rematch clause kicks in Joshua may well have to look elsewhere for his next opponent.

Joshua will not be watching the bout, however. He explained: 'Unfortunately the fight's on too early for me, so I'll be sleeping, but I enjoy watching the highlights.

'I need Wilder to win, and that way it gives me more of an opportunity to fight him, because as a champion, if he retains his belt. I think that's the fight people have been yearning for.'

Wilder and Fury will compete for the WBC world title in Los Angeles on December 1

British boxing heavyweight Anthony Joshua teamed up with Land Rover, putting on an exclusive sparring session in the heart of London.

In partnership with KOBOX gym, 'AJ' brought to life the new Range Rover Evoque's capability and connected car technology.

====== 2420 ========

CHIEF EXEC GORDON TAYLOR AGREES TO FULLY INDEPENDENT REVIEW OF THE PFA

Gordon Taylor has agreed to a fully independent review of the Professional Footballers' Association, calling on the Sports Resolutions to take the lead in an article he has written in The Times.

Earlier this week Taylor said in an open letter to PFA members that a review would be 'QC-led', having bowed to the pressure being exerted by chairman Ben Purkiss and hundreds of ex-players.

However now Taylor has recognised the need for complete independence and has agreed to let the not-for-profit dispute resolutions service lead the governance review. In the past they handled the racism case involving the Football Association and John Terry.

Former players may launch legal action against the PFA for the loss of over £1m in savings

In his article the under-fire PFA chief executive appears to admit Sports Resolutions could find fault with his leadership.

'I hope, and believe, the review will find that we have got more right than wrong,' he said. 'Where it identifies shortcomings in what we do or in our structures and leadership, we will work, I promise, to put them right.

'The past week won't go down as the best in the Professional Football Association's 111-year history. It is never comfortable to find yourself the subject of such intense scrutiny.

'Today, I am recommending to the board of trustees and the management committee that the highly respected Sport Resolutions leads a full and open review into the structure and operation of the union.

'As my leadership is one of the areas which has been criticised, it is only right that an independent body leads this review. The PFA has nothing to hide.'

====== 2421 ========

WHY TWO-TIME CHAMPION FERNANDO ALONSO IS GOING OUT WITH A WHIMPER

There is a paradox in the paddock. On Saturday night, Formula One's elite gather to raise a glass to a driver with two world titles to his name.

Further, Fernando Alonso merits inclusion in F1's all-time top 10. Now 37, he was once his sport's youngest champion and youngest double champion ever.

Yet for all Alonso's 32 wins in 311 races, most people here for Sunday's Grand Prix will merely shrug.

Spanish driver Fernando Alonso will retire after the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix on Sunday

Why? One reason is that the Spaniard has stayed on too long. He has won fewer points, 132, in four years at McLaren than Lewis Hamilton notched in the past seven races.

Worse, lack of recent success has turned him into a stuck record moaning about how the podium is a closed shop. His last top-three finish was at Ferrari in 2014.

McLaren's milk float has left him podium-less for 84 races, but his comments have grated. History may be even less generous than the muted response to his leaving F1.

Alonso is not saying he is retiring, keeping open the possibility of a return. Not a hope. Nobody wants him.

Alonso has won fewer points in four years than Hamilton (pic) notched in the past seven races

History will record Alonso as a tainted champion. He was at the centre of the 2007 Spygate scandal with McLaren, his email inbox containing Ferrari information that his team had purloined.

He then fell out with McLaren boss Ron Dennis and rookie Lewis Hamilton. He returned to Renault after one season, his biggest tactical mistake.

A calmer driver may have won the title in 2007 and 2008 but after joining Ferrari he came close to championships in 2010 and 2012 before it all went sour.

A super racer, Alonso won his titles in 2005 and 2006 but that was it, his title account closed aged 25.

His biggest black mark remains his 2008 win in Singapore, achieved when Renault team-mate Nelson Piquet was told to help by crashing deliberately.

====== 2422 ========

STEVEN GERRARD SPEAKS OUT ON PFA AND BACKS INDEPENDENT REVIEW

The calls for change at the Professional Footballers’ Association received heavyweight backing on Friday, when Steven Gerrard said he would welcome an independent review and suggested anyone stopping the players’ union from modernising should ‘step aside’.

Earlier this week, under-fire chief executive Gordon Taylor bowed to pressure from PFA chairman Ben Purkiss by agreeing to an independent, QC-led review, having been accused by Purkiss of ignoring his requests for one in the past.

As Sportsmail revealed last week, it has led to a power struggle between the two most senior figures in the organisation.

Rangers manager Steven Gerrard poses with the PFA Player of the Year Award he won in 2006

Purkiss has received widespread support from fellow players since speaking out, with a group of more than 300 ex-professionals calling for Taylor to resign after it emerged he could be in breach of trade union and PFA rules by serving as chief executive for 37 years without standing for re-election.

Rangers manager Gerrard seized the opportunity in his press conference on Friday to address the issue. Indeed, he encouraged the subject to be raised, with reporters not necessarily interested in talking to him about a political crisis in the English game.

Gerrard said: ‘I’ve been asked to take sides by many players who are texting me and saying, “Can I put your name forward for this, this and this”, but I said to them, “Look, I’ll be sitting in front of the press in Glasgow on Friday, so I’ll have the opportunity to say what I want to say then”. My opinion is that when you have an organisation as big as the PFA and a union as big as it is, and so many lives are affected, there should be a review of the union every so often.

‘Whether that be (every) two years, four years, five years, I don’t know, but by doing that you make sure that the organisation is running smoothly and healthily.

‘At the moment, it’s obviously very split, so I welcome a review of the process and if there’s anything in there that shouldn’t be there — working in the union — you need to step aside as soon as possible and get people who can move the union forward healthy and in the right place.’

Gordon Taylor bowed to the pressure being exerted by chairman Ben Purkiss this week

Taylor has come under intense scrutiny for the way he runs the mega-rich organisation

Gerrard was asked about Taylor’s £2.3million salary.

‘I’m not here to talk about people’s salaries and what they earn, like I wouldn’t want anyone to talk about my salary and what I earn,’ he said. ‘The union, if it’s not functioning properly, then an independent person or people should come in and review it. And if anyone is overpaid or under-performing, then get them out. I’d welcome that.

‘The PFA does a lot of good things — I’ve only had good experiences with the PFA from a personal point of view.

‘But I also understand people have been let down seriously in other areas and if that’s the case then there needs to be an inquiry and a process where it doesn’t happen again.

‘I have an understanding and an appreciation that people have been let down and I understand the topics raised in the last 10 days. If they need to be addressed then I’m for backing the people that need the agreement to change.

‘Instead of getting involved in details about racism or dementia and different stuff, I’d simply welcome a review — and not just because it’s come up now, but because it should happen every two or three years, where every single person who works there gets reviewed to see how they are performing. That’s the only way we stop situations like this coming about.’

Some big names in English football have considered speaking out, but Gerrard is the first

It is understood some of the biggest names in English football have considered speaking out, but Gerrard is the first to do so.

Alan Shearer, who presented an emotive documentary about the possible links between dementia and football, has so far remained silent when Purkiss has complained about the lack of PFA funding in that area, but he did like a social media post put up by his agent, who questioned whether the PFA should have been acting as financial advisers to members.

The agent’s tweet included a link to a Sportsmail story.

This newspaper can also reveal that the Charity Commission has now opened a ‘regulatory compliance case’ into the PFA Charity, and will be looking into its governance arrangements as well as the charity’s accounts. This is a significant escalation from earlier this week when the Commission, which regulates charities in England and Wales, said it was aware of concerns regarding the expenditure of the charity and would speak to trustees to establish the facts.

Last night, a spokesperson for the Charity Commission said: ‘The public rightly expect charities to live their values, acting at all times to maximise their positive impact on beneficiaries.

‘We have opened a regulatory compliance case into the Professional Footballers’ Association Charity to examine concerns about the governance arrangements and to clarify a number of issues relating to the charity’s financial arrangements and accounts.

‘We will be engaging with trustees on these issues and cannot comment further at this time.’

====== 2423 ========

GLENN HODDLE AT HOME RECUPERATING AFTER SURGERY FOLLOWING HEART ATTACK

A member of BT Sport production crew used his first aid training to help Hoddle

Glenn Hoddle has been discharged from hospital and is recovering at home following surgery after he suffered a heart attack on set.

The former England manager, 61, collapsed at the BT Sport studios last month and was taken to St Bartholomew's Hospital in London.

He subsequently underwent surgery, to which he responded well, and has now been sent home to continue his recovery.

Former England boss Glenn Hoddle is recovering at home following heart surgery

Hoddle celebrated his 61st birthday on the Saturday Morning Savage show on October 27

Hoddle was taken seriously ill following filming at the BT Sports studios with Harry Redknapp

A spokesman for Tottenham legend Hoddle said: 'After being taken ill on Saturday 27th October, Glenn received specialist care at St Bartholomew's Hospital in London.

'To aid his recovery from a cardiac arrest, Glenn underwent surgery. He responded well to treatment and is now at home recuperating from the procedure.'

The spokesman thanked medics who had worked on Hoddle. 'The care that Glenn received from St Bartholomew's Hospital was exemplary,' he added.

'His family would like to thank the hospital staff and the many people who have sent supportive messages. Doctors have outlined that rest is paramount for Glenn now.

'With that in mind, his family ask politely that their privacy is respected and that Glenn is given time to recover fully.'

Ex-Tottenham and England midfielder collapsed at studios last month after cardiac arrest

Member of BT Sports production crew, special constable Simon Daniels, used first aid training

A member of the BT Sport production crew, special constable Simon Daniels, used his first aid training to help Hoddle in the moments after he collapsed.

Daniels gave Hoddle immediate medical attention and his swift actions were praised by both Hoddle's family and also Assistant Chief Constable of Thames Valley Police Nikki Ross, who said he had been 'incredible'.

Hoddle won 53 caps for England from 1979-88, while as manager he took his country to the 1998 World Cup finals in France, qualifying on the back of a memorable 0-0 draw away to Italy.

He also played for Monaco, Swindon Town and Chelsea, managing the two English clubs, along with Southampton and Wolverhampton Wanderers.

====== 2424 ========

IPSWICH 1-2 WEST BROM: JAY RODRIGUEZ AND HARVEY BARNES SCORE AS BAGGIES WIN

Goals from Jay Rodriguez and Harvey Barnes lifted West Bromwich into second place and left Ipswich still five points adrift at the bottom of the Championship table.

The Baggies climbed above Middlesbrough, Leeds and Sheffield United thanks to a victory that should have been by a far more comfortable margin.

Ipswich worked hard under new manager Paul Lambert, who had previously presided over two draws, and were given brief hope of an unlikely comeback when Tosin Adarabioyo's error allowed substitute Kayden Jackson to pull one back with five minutes remaining.

Jay Rodriguez caught Matthew Pennington flat-footed to volley home the opening goal

The West Brom striker peeled away to celebrate his 100th senior goal in club football

Harvey Barnes cleverly worked some room in the penalty box to smash in West Brom's second

Rodriguez opened the scoring in the 26th minute by tapping in a header across the box from left-back Kieran Gibbs who had met a cross to the back post by Matt Phillips.

'I didn't realise it was my 100th goal but I'm more annoyed that I missed a couple of chances to kill off the game,' the striker said.

'We're still disappointed at times with some of the things we do but we're a work in progress. There is more to come from us.'

MATCH FACTS AND LEAGUE TABLE Ipswich (4-3-3): Bialkowski; Spence, Chambers, Pennington, Knudsen; Skuse, Chalobah, Downes (Bishop 64); Edwards (Lankester 77), Roberts (Jackson 78), Sears. Subs not used: Gerken, Donacien, Ward, Dozell Booked: Pennington Scorer: Jackson (85) West Brom (4-3-3): Johnstone; Adarabioyo, Dawson, Hegazi, Gibbs; Phillips, Livermore, Morrison (Barry 88); Barnes, Rodriguez, Robson-Kanu (Gayle 75). Subs not used: Myhill, Mears, Townsend, Hoolahan, Harper Booked: Phillips, Gibbs, Johnstone Scorers: Rodriguez (26), Barnes (77) Referee: Keith Stroud. Attendance: 22,995 Season at a glance Live tables

Fixtures

Scores Championship

Premier League

Championship

League One

League Two

Scottish Premiership

Scottish Div 1

Scottish Div 2

Scottish Div 3

Ligue 1

Serie A

La Liga

Bundesliga





Ipswich, easy meat under previous boss Paul Hurst, were more of a force after the break but were relieved when Barnes hit a post rather than the back of the net before the hour mark.

The on-loan Leicester man doubled the lead with a 77th-minute second by cutting in from the right of the box and lashing past Bialkowski.

That should have been that but Adarabioyo's dreadful touch in his own box allowed Jackson a simple finish with five minutes to set up a nervy finish.

Teenage substitute Jack Lankester grazed a post with a stoppage-time free-kick and Albion were releived to hear the final whistle soon after.

Ipswich manager Paul Lambert delivers instructions to his players from the touchline

Hal Robson-Kanu (right) battles for possession of the ball with Ipswich defender Pennington

'On another day we might have got an equaliser and I said to them in there sometimes the table DOES lie,' said Lambert, who had begun his stint as Hurst's successor with two draws..

'We gave everything, we couldn't give any more. I can't predict what's going to happen with results but one thing for sure is we're certainly a good side.'

Baggies boss Darren Moore had words of comfort for 21-year-old right-back Adarabioyo, who is on loan from Manchester City.

'He had a tremendous game, young Tosin, and he will learn from it,' he said. 'He knows, in terms of his career development, this will be a valuable lesson for him.'

Luke Chambers gets back to clear the ball off the line and keep the home side in the match

Ipswich's Jordan Roberts (L) and West Brom's Craig Dawson (R) compete for the ball in the air

====== 2425 ========

GARY NEVILLE DEFENDS PFA'S SPENDING PLANS AFTER UNION'S ANNUAL LUNCH

Gary Neville, a former PFA management committee member, gave support to Gordon Taylor after Friday’s PFA annual lunch.

‘I was a PFA representative for 15 years and I also sat on the management committee for most of those,’ Neville told Sportsmail.

‘When you sit on those committee meetings you are dealing with hundreds, thousands, of requests every year. And it really is a case of spinning plates given the many different requests for funding the PFA receives.

Gary Neville gave his support to under-fire Gordon Taylor after Friday's PFA annual lunch

'For that reason I think it’s wrong for ex-players to comment on the inner workings of the PFA if they haven’t been sat in those meetings.

'For instance, do you give money to dementia research or do you help fund the care of those actually suffering with dementia?

'These are the decisions that have to be made, and given a lot of the criticism I’ve seen this past week I just want people to understand that.’

====== 2426 ========

MICK MCCARTHY AGREES TWO-YEAR DEAL TO BECOME NEW MANAGER OF REPUBLIC OF IRELAND

Mick McCarthy will return as Republic of Ireland boss with Robbie Keane as part of his backroom team in a move which is sure to win favour with disillusioned supporters.

The 59-year-old replaces Martin O'Neill - who was sacked on Wednesday - and is set to be unveiled in Dublin on Sunday.

It is understood McCarthy has signed a two-year deal with the option of an extension and that is likely to depend on the success or otherwise of qualification for Euro 2020.

Mick McCarthy has agreed a deal in principle to become the new Republic of Ireland manager

McCarthy will be at the draw in Dublin next Sunday when Ireland learn their opponents ahead of qualifying proper in March.

A salary of around £1million is believed to have been agreed and McCarthy will be assisted by Terry Connor, with Keane - the country's record goalscorer - taking up a coaching role.

The FAI will be hoping the new management team restore confidence in the players and enthusiasm among supporters after a dreadful year under O'Neill and Roy Keane.

They agreed to stand down this week after a return of one win from nine in 2018 and relegation to the third tier of the Nations League.

He will sign a two-year deal to cover Euro 2020 campaign and will be confirmed as boss soon

McCarthy remains popular in Ireland and is the last manager to lead the county to the World Cup finals. But the squad he inherits this time is vastly inferior to the one which made the last 16 in Japan and South Korea in 2002.

For a start, there is no Robbie Keane, the striker who netted 68 times in the green jersey. The current team have not scored in six-and-a-half hours and have been forced to rely on frontmen from the Championship and League One in recent matches.

One of McCarthy's first tasks, however, will be to make contact with Declan Rice, the West Ham midfielder who is currently deciding whether to represent Ireland or England. Were the 19-year-old to declare for Ireland then it would be an important early victory for the new manager.

====== 2427 ========

AARON LENNON: 'BURNLEY HAVE HELPED ME FALL BACK IN LOVE WITH FOOTBALL'

The training ground five-a-sides at Burnley are as hard fought as any in the Premier League. Top-flight footballers are trained and conditioned to win, not lose, and for Aaron Lennon the competitive instincts are undimmed.

'The lads lost yesterday and there were people storming off the pitch,' smiled the Burnley winger. 'The other lads? They were buzzing. It still hurts, even in training.'

Lennon is 31 now, with almost 400 league appearances behind him for Leeds, Tottenham, Everton and Burnley. He also played 21 times for England.

Aaron Lennon says arriving at Burnley was the best move of his Premier League career

It is clear many things about him remain unchanged but asked this week for his favourite Premier League moment, he replied without pause: 'Arriving at Burnley'.

The Lancashire club, he believes, saved his career and restored his love for the game that he now knows almost destroyed him. 'I came here at the right time and I know that,' he said.

It is, in many ways, remarkable that Lennon is playing football at all. It is not much longer than 18 months since he was detained by police under the Mental Health Act as he stood in a tracksuit by the side of a road in Salford. An Everton player at the time, he has never revealed the exact nature of his issues but accepts now that something had not been right for a very long time.

'As I look back, I have started to realise this was probably going on longer than I thought,' he agreed. 'I know now if I had spoken to a few of the lads I have played with, they would have actually helped me and probably put their arm around me.

'But I've never really been one to ask for help. Not just in the dressing room, I didn't ask for help from people closer either. I look back at times at what happened and think, "Wow, I can't believe I was in that place".

'I never thought that I wouldn't play but there was a good spell where I wasn't enjoying football. It is just great to be here and enjoying it again now.'

He is back in love with football after suffering mental health problems 18 months ago

Lennon's manager Sean Dyche has a reputation for bringing the best from players others may not consider. Joey Barton flourished at Burnley while Joe Hart has been reintroduced to better form.

This week Dyche said: 'Health and wellbeing of players is key to the future of the game. There is an all-time high of demand on them now and money doesn't solve these problems. But the biggest change since my era of playing is the end of the "Get on with it" mentality. That's gone now.

'Now, we get it. There is no judgment. We will give Aaron all the support he needs and he knows that.'

Lennon was never a player anyone felt they knew that much about, but Dyche, encouraged by a positive reference from former Everton manager Roberto Martinez, felt there was more to extract from a player capable of conforming to his work ethic while adding a creative spark.

Sources at Burnley say Lennon bought into the club's feeling of inclusivity immediately. Known affectionately as 'Azzer', he car-shares from Cheshire with Ashley Barnes and Ashley Westwood and is a member of the dressing room's modest card school.

Equally, he is an individual and it was noted that, as many players headed to the usual winter sun destinations like Dubai during the recent international break, Lennon did not.

Lennon, along with the likes of Joe Hart, has had his career revitalised at Turf Moor

Helped by Burnley's excellent player support staff, Lennon knows he has people on hand to talk to but believes he will not need it. Instead he hopes he can help others.

'Touch wood I've been really good since,' Lennon said. 'You learn a lot about yourself during those periods. I had to take a look about myself. I've got a great family and great friends and I see the only way as being up for me.

'But everyone's different. I can see why some people will see it as a constant battle. There are probably a lot of footballers who don't want to speak about how they may be feeling.

'There are going to be spells where you might not feel so great and there are going to be spells where you do feel great. Hopefully the door is open for people to say that they're not OK because there's so much help out there.

'Hopefully I can be a good example to show that you can be going through a tough time but you can get back to where you want to be, enjoying football and enjoying life again.

Lennon, at 31 with 400 league appearances, is positive about his future once again

'I'll always be there, my door's open. They can come and speak to me about anything, not just off the pitch, the football, anything.

'I had people who I didn't turn to and that was a mistake. I'll always try to help players, especially young lads because they need that these days.'

On the field, Burnley hope steps towards recovery in the Premier League can be taken at home to Newcastle on Monday night. Lennon views his own form as a work in progress, not just in the five-a-sides.

'I don't think I have hit top form yet,' he smiled. 'But I am not far off, hopefully. This move definitely gave me the lift I needed and I started to enjoy my football again. From the moment I got here every day has been brilliant. I'm loving it.'

====== 2428 ========

PREMIER LEAGUE TEAM NEWS: DISCOVER WHO'S IN WITH OUR BOOT ROOM GUIDE

Keep track of all the Premier League team news ahead of this weekend's matches.

The London derby between Tottenham Hotspur and Chelsea is the headline act on a Saturday that also features Liverpool, Manchester United and Manchester City in action.

There is plenty of action on Sunday too, including Arsenal's trip to Bournemouth, while Burnley and Newcastle clash on Monday night.

You can find out who's in and who's out for all the matches with our graphic guides...

====== 2429 ========

MAURIZIO SARRI BELIEVES CHELSEA HAVE A 'MENTAL PROBLEM' AT START OF SECOND HALF OF GAMES

Maurizio Sarri claims Chelsea and Tottenham are in a four-horse race for two places in the Champions League.

Sarri is unbeaten in his first 12 Premier League games but does not believe they are genuine contenders for the title.

He admits a 'mental problem' at the start of the second half of games is one of the things holding Chelsea back.

Maurizio Sarri thinks Liverpool and Manchester City will be fighting for the title this year

He says that Chelsea are in a group of four or five teams fighting for Champions League spots

'At the moment, in the Premier League there is a team above the others,' said Sarri. 'This team is Manchester City. Then there is a very good team, Liverpool, and for sure, they will be in the first four positions.

'Then there are four or five teams who will have to fight for the Champions League places: Chelsea, Arsenal, Tottenham, Manchester United and maybe somebody else. Usually in a season there is a surprise.

'We have to work very hard just to try to recover the gap but, at the moment, the gap is still there.'

Chelsea are four points adrift of leaders City but Spurs will climb above them if they win the London derby at Wembley on Saturday.

Chelsea are third in the table, but Spurs will leapfrog them if they win the London derby

'In the last three matches, we had problems with the approach to the match,' said Sarri. 'Not only that, because we had some problems also in the beginning of the second half.

'So we have to be careful. We have to be focused on this problem. For sure, it is not a physical problem because, in the last part of the match, we ran a lot.

'And it's not a tactical problem, because in the first 15 minutes in the last three matches, the problem was the opponents were more aggressive, more determined than us.

'It's a mental problem. We have to approach the match in a different way, for application and determination.'

====== 2430 ========

FULHAM READY TO MAKE FRESH BID FOR CELTIC DEFENDER DEDRYCK BOYATA IN JANUARY

Fulham are preparing a new push to sign defender Dedryck Boyata from Celtic in January.

The Belgian international is in the final year of his Parkhead contract and could leave for free next summer.

Currently bottom of the English Premier League, the Cottagers had a £9million bid for Boyata rejected in August.

Fulham had a £9million bid for defender Dedryck Boyata rejected by Celtic in August

Sportsmail understands, however, that the London club remain interested in signing the 27-year-old for a lower fee in the next transfer window despite Claudio Ranieri replacing Slavisa Jokanovic as boss last week.

Unhappy with Celtic's refusal to sell him last summer, Boyata refused to travel to Greece for a Champions League qualifier in August but has been an impressive performer on his return to the Parkhead first team.

Speaking at Celtic's AGM this week, manager Brendan Rodgers admitted that the player is likely to leave Glasgow in search of a bumper deal elsewhere.

The defender is in the final year of his Parkhead contract and could leave for free next summer

'He's at the stage where he will assess everything and he is probably going to sign the biggest deal of his life over the next couple of months,' said the Northern Irishman.

It could mean the break-up of Celtic's current stability at the back, as Leicester City have an option in January to recall loan defender Filip Benkovic, who has formed an impressive partnership with Boyata.

Flop defender Marvin Compper also looks set to leave the club. Signed on a free transfer last January, Compper told media in his native Germany this week: 'Unfortunately, I do not play much of a role with our manager and that's why I want to take a look around during the winter break.

'Whether it will be in the Bundesliga, I do not know. I'm pretty open.

'Although I will be 34 in the summer, I still have a lot in the tank.

'Unfortunately, I can not show it at Celtic.

'Right now, it's about looking to where I can continue my career. In any case, I can still play for two more years.'

Wary of being left short at the back as they pursue an eighth straight title, the champions are expected to revive their interest in Scott McKenna after Aberdeen declined to sell the Scotland international in the last window.

Rodgers is also in the market for a striker and right-back, but is unlikely to follow up scouting reports on Swansea City's full back Connor Roberts.

====== 2431 ========

ENGLAND TO FACE FRANCE, ROMANIA AND CROATIA IN GROUP STAGES AT 2019 EUROPEAN UNDER-21 CHAMPIONSHIP

England must overcome France to progress from a demanding group if they are to finally be crowned Under-21 European Champions.

The draw for Euro 2019, which will be staged in Italy and San Marino next June, took place in Bologna on Friday night.

Aside from France, who have one of the best Under-21 teams in Europe, England must also see off Romania and Croatia to progress from Group C.

England, who beat Denmark 5-1 on Tuesday, are among the favourites for the tournament

England's first assignment is against the French on June 18 and if they are to do better than their last attempt in Poland two years ago - Aidy Boothroyd's squad lost on penalties in the semi-final to eventual champions Germany - the head coach knows a flying start is vital.

'I'm really pleased we play France first,' said Boothroyd. 'It means we can get straight down to it. They will think they can win and so will we.

'It should be a cracking game and it's one we can win. People say France will be our main rivals but Croatia and Romania are no mugs.

'We want to go two steps better this time by getting to the Final and winning it. We've still got those memories of the defeat to Germany on penalties and we'll be looking to erase those this time. It will not be easy. We have worked hard for two years and want something to show for it.'

England Under-21 boss Aidy Boothroyd attended the draw in Bologna, Italy on Friday

Boothroyd intends to visit a number of Premier League managers in the coming weeks to iron out any potential issues around squad selection.

Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp, however, does not expect either Joe Gomez or Trent Alexander-Arnold - both of whom are still eligible - to be selected.

It is likely that Boothroyd will also not be able to select Leicester left-back Ben Chilwell, as he is pencilled in for Nations League finals with the senior team.

====== 2432 ========

JOSE MOURINHO CONFIDENT MANCHESTER UNITED WILL MAKE UP GROUND ON RIVALS

Jose Mourinho believes he can propel Manchester United into the top four of the Premier League before the end of the year.

United are seven points adrift of fourth-placed Tottenham but have eight more league games to play in 2018 – including five at Old Trafford.

Mourinho, who faces Crystal Palace at home on Saturday, insists United can catch up, saying: 'I know it's a big gap but I also know until the end of December if I'm not wrong we have eight Premier League matches to play.

Jose Mourinho expects his Manchester United side to make up ground on the teams above

Mourinho believes his side are capable of moving into the top four before the new year

Season at a glance Live tables

Fixtures

Scores Premier League

Premier League

Championship

League One

League Two

Scottish Premiership

Scottish Div 1

Scottish Div 2

Scottish Div 3

Ligue 1

Serie A

La Liga

Bundesliga





'Eight Premier League matches, we are speaking about 24 points for us to fight for, and the other ones in the top four to fight for too, but I believe we are going to be there.'

Mourinho confirmed that he will have a fully-fit squad to face Palace after Romelu Lukaku (hamstring), Paul Pogba (thigh), Anthony Martial (adductor muscle) and Marouane Fellaini pulled out of international games during the recent break. Luke Shaw will be United's only absentee through suspension.

'Martial stayed with us, he didn't go to the (France) national team,' added Mourinho. 'The national team was aware of his problems and with permission he stayed, he worked really hard on that pre-injury because problems in the muscles around the pubis, they are a dangerous situation and he was in a pre-injury situation.

'He worked really hard. He's ready for Saturday and he plays. Is he ready to play three in a row in the same week? I don't know, but the most important match is the next.

'Fellaini also stayed, no (Belgium) national team, they also let him stay in spite of playing 90 minutes against Manchester City. He needed to stay and prepare himself better after such an injury that he had before, so Marouane is also good.

'The boys in the national teams, (Marcus) Rashford came with a little problem but is ready, Lukaku is ready — I would say ready with a little bit of a risk, but ready — and Paul we knew with this break he would recover from that small muscular injury.

'So we don't have players I can say are out of the game. We have a huge 23 group to choose from.'

Romelu Lukaku is fit to face Palace despite missing Belgium's recent games through injury

Paul Pogba, who missed United's clash with rivals Manchester City, is back to full fitness

Mourinho has confirmed Anthony Martial will feature against Crystal Palace on Saturday

Mourinho was reluctant to be drawn further on comments regarding his players' character that appeared on Friday morning. But he urged his team to continue their promising form that brought three straight wins before a defeat in the Manchester derby.

'Of course we need points, results, and we need performances because we also like good performances on top of points and good results,' said Mourinho.

'It's up to us. We were playing well and getting good results until the end of the last period.

'Of course, we lost the last match but I don't consider it at all a bad performance and two weeks with a small group of players, waiting for news, good news, bad news, in national teams; no time to work together but we were in a good moment, playing well, so why not stay the same?

'To improve and to get good results, because we need now to get points to jump into the position we are in the championship and next week with the Champions League we need points against Young Boys.

'The supporters cannot do more than what they are doing. We went through a difficult period of results and the supporters were fantastic. They supported the team and in some matches even push the team to different levels than we were at the time. We cannot ask more from them. It's for us to give them and make them to go to an even better level.'

====== 2433 ========

LEICESTER DEFENDER JONNY EVANS ADMITS TRAGEDY LEFT PLAYERS DRAINED

Leicester's Jonny Evans admits his team-mates needed a break ahead of their return to action against Brighton.

The Foxes play the Seagulls after the international break, which followed the death of owner Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha and four others in a helicopter crash last month.

Manager Claude Puel said on Thursday it is time to focus on football following the tragedy, and Evans conceded the squad had been mentally drained.

Leicester's Jonny Evans admits his team-mates needed a break ahead of facing Brighton

'You can't keep playing on that same high emotion every single week,' he said. 'Obviously every game we go into there's a huge determination to win, but in those two games (Cardiff and Burnley) there was heightened emotion in most players and it's very, very hard to play like that.

'You have to keep your emotions at a certain level at the right times in games and it's important that we do that for the rest of the season.

'The break probably did come at a good time. It wasn't until I'd gone away on international duty that I realised how emotionally drained and tired everyone would have felt.

The death of owner Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha in a helicopter crash left the players drained

'It was a tough couple of weeks, but I thought everyone dealt with it really well, the club as a whole and the players. Now we've come back it's important for us to re-focus and continue playing well.'

Evans has overcome a knee injury after coming off against Burnley and is set to start with Harry Maguire out with his own knee problem. Jamie Vardy is a doubt with a groin issue. Leicester are three points and two places ahead of Brighton in the Premier League.

'They're a very good team, well organised,' said Evans. 'They're very good at set-pieces and Glenn Murray's obviously been on fire the last year or so, so it'll be a tough side to play against, especially at their stadium.'

====== 2434 ========

LEWIS HAMILTON RUNS WITH NO 1 ON HIS MERCEDES AT ABU DHABI GRAND PRIX

Lewis Hamilton has embraced his status as world champion ahead of this weekend's Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, after changing the number on his car to No 1.

Up until 2014 world champions would traditionally race with the No 1 on their car the season after winning the world championship.

This system saw most drivers race with a number as decided by the order of the constructors' championship from the previous season - with the exception of the world champion and his team-mate who would run with the No 1 and No 2 respectively.

Lewis Hamilton has placed the No 1 on his car for the final race of the season in Abu Dhabi

As world champion, the Brit has an exclusive right to wear the No 1 on his car

But for the last five seasons, F1 drivers have copied their MotoGP counterparts by having each driver select a personal number, with Hamilton having run with the No 44 since.

However, Hamilton will only run the No 1 on an unofficial basis in Yas Marina. He will not officially be crowned 2018 champion until the FIA gala prize giving award at the end of the season.

As a result the No 1 on his car is technically to mark his 2017 world championship win, as he would not be allowed to run it had he not clinched last season's title.

Sporting regulations requires the driver to race with a number he is registered to - No 44 in Hamilton's case - which as usual will be displayed on the rear of the car

With the car registered as No 44, Hamilton will have to run the number as seen at the rear

Giving a double thumbs up, Hamilton was all smiles heading into the final race of the season

The Brit has now won the world championship four times in the era of personal numbers and this is the first time he has competed in an official timed session with the world champion's number.

He secured this year's world title at the Mexican Grand Prix and is now looking to win his 11th race of the season at the season finale in Abu Dhabi.

Sebastian Vettel was the last driver to have the No 1 on his car in a race as he elected to keep his world championship number for 2014 after winning the 2013 title.

Hamilton has in the past preferred to keep the No 44 on his car, and it is understood this remains the case.

Hamilton has raced with No 44 in every race since personal numbers were introduced in 2014

The Brit's main concern heading into first practice is the condition of his race engine.

Mercedes are heavily concerned with his engine after it was nursed home at the Brazilian GP and the team will use FP1 as a barometer to assess if it can compete in the race.

Seeing as this is Hamilton's last fresh power unit of the season, he will face a grid penalty if they have to install a new one at any point this weekend.

====== 2435 ========

VALTTERI BOTTAS EDGES FRIDAY PRACTICE AHEAD OF ABU DHABI GRAND PRIX

World champion Lewis Hamilton was fourth fastest in second practice for the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix.

With his fifth title already safely secured, Hamilton, 33, is hoping to sign off with his 11th victory of a remarkable year.

But the Mercedes star finished 0.207 seconds slower than team-mate Valtteri Bottas in the final running of the day at the Yas Marina circuit.

Valtteri Bottas was fastest for Mercedes in Friday practice for the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix

Bottas just edged out Red Bull duo Max Verstappen and Daniel Ricciardo (above) in FP2

After running No 1 on his car in FP1, Hamilton returned to using his No 44 in second practice

Hamilton, sporting a gold crash helmet and number one on his car this weekend to celebrate his latest championship success, faced a summons to the stewards after crossing the white line as he entered the pits.

The British driver is likely to be handed only a reprimand.

Bottas is searching for his first victory of an inauspicious campaign. The Finn finished four hundredths ahead of Max Verstappen in the early-evening dark.

Max Verstappen was quickest for Red Bull in first practice for the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix

Verstappen will be looking to continue his fine end of season form in the season finale

Lewis Hamilton, wearing the No 1 on his car, climbs into his Mercedes cockpit

ABU DHABI GP SECOND PRACTICE 1 Bottas (Fin) Mercedes 1:37.236 2 Verstappen (Hol) Red Bull 1:37.280 3 Ricciardo (Aus) Red Bull 1:37.428 4 Hamilton (Gbr) Mercedes 1:37.443 5 Raikkonen (Fin) Ferrari 1:37.461 6 Vettel (Ger) Ferrari 1:37.569 7 Hulkenburg (Ger) Renault 1:38.230 8 Grosjean (Fra) Haas 1:38.060 9 Magnussen (Den) Haas 1:38.318 10 Ocon (Fra) Force India 1:38.402 11 Gasly (Fra) Toro Rosso 1:38.506 12 Sainz Jr (Spa) Renault 1:38.511 13 Alonso (Spa) McLaren 1:38.725 14 Perez (Mex) Force India 1:38.806 15 Leclerc (Mon) Sauber 1:38.831 16 Hartley (Nzl) Toro Rosso 1:38.957 17 Ericsson (Swe) Sauber 1:39.502 18 Vandoorne (Bel) McLaren 1:39.938 19 Stroll (Can) Williams 1:40.046 20 Sirotkin (Rus) Williams 1:40.935

Daniel Ricciardo, taking part in his 100th and final race for Red Bull before he moves to Renault next season, finished third.

Ferrari, looking to banish memories of their late-season collapse which allowed Hamilton to sew up the title more easily than he might have expected, occupied fifth and sixth places on the time sheets.

Kimi Raikkonen, whose long association with the Italian team will end with Sunday's race, held a slim advantage over Sebastian Vettel.

Fernando Alonso will be competing in his final Formula One race this weekend

The McLaren driver will retire from the sport after 17 seasons following the season finale

McLaren have opted to run Alonso's car with the Spaniard's livery on top of the orange colours

Fernando Alonso will bring down the curtain on the second longest career in Formula One under no illusions that he can add to his 32 victories.

It is more likely that the two-time world champion will be squabbling for the minor points come Sunday, his 312th and final start.

Mercedes driver Valtteri Bottas was third quickest for Mercedes in FP1

Max Verstappen drives through the last sector on his way to a quickest time in FP1

Hamilton was only fourth fastest but the session was treated as a test by most of the teams

Here, he finished 13th for McLaren, 1.5 sec off the pace.

In first practice earlier in the day, Verstappen set the pace as Red Bull continue to end the season with a surge of form.

Verstappen, who was unlucky not to win when taken out while leading the Brazilian Grand Prix a fortnight ago, led Ricciardo in a Red Bull one-two.

Robert Kubica propped up the field in his first F1 session since confirming his full-time return

====== 2436 ========

FERNANDO ALONSO IS NOT RULING OUT F1 RETURN AS HE PREPARES FOR FINAL RACE

Fernando Alonso has opened the door to a sensational return to F1 in the future after admitting he could change his mind over his proposed retirement.

The Spaniard is in Abu Dhabi this weekend ahead of his proposed final race after 17 years in the sport.

The two-time world champion announced he was bowing out earlier this year to concentrate on other racing categories.

Fernando Alonso has not ruled out one day returning to F1 ahead of his final race

The Spaniard is in Abu Dhabi for the finale of the 2018 season after announcing his retirement

But he now admits his feelings could change next year as he watches from the sidelines for the first time since 2002.

'Right now it's difficult to think about coming back, but the door is not closed,' said the 37-year-old.

'I don't know how I will feel next year. I have been doing this for my whole life so maybe next year by April or May I'm desperate on the sofa so maybe I find a way somehow to come back.

'But it's not the initial idea. So it's more about myself: if I come back it's not for any particular reason or deadline or something that has to happen.

Alonso admits he could change his mind over his planned retirement next year

Alonso is planning to bow out after 17 seasons to concentration on other racing categories

'It's going to be more how I feel in the middle of next year.'

Alonso has committed to the Indy 500 in May next year as he attempts to complete the triple crown, and the final three rounds of the World Endurance Championship super-season.

He later added to Sky F1: 'Right now, it's my intention that this is my last race. But by next year, maybe, I will feel empty without Formula 1 and I will find a way to come back in the future.'

====== 2437 ========

FERNANDO ALONSO CLAIMS MICHAEL SCHUMACHER WAS HIS GREATEST RIVAL IN FORMULA ONE

Fernando Alonso said Michael Schumacher was the greatest rival of his career as the Spaniard prepares to bow out of Formula One.

Alonso, 37, will start his 312th and final grand prix in Abu Dhabi on Sunday.

His 18-season F1 legacy, including one as a Renault test driver in 2002, will be divided into two parts: one where his remarkable race craft enabled him to win 32 times, beat arguably the greatest in Schumacher, and claim back-to-back world championships.

Fernando Alonso will retire from Formula One following Sunday's Abu Dhabi Grand Prix

The other will have him judged as a divisive, and poorly-advised driver, who made a catalogue of wrong career moves.

Alonso was also implicated in two of the sport's darkest days, the so-called Spygate scandal of 2007 - where his then-McLaren team were discovered to have 780 pages of Ferrari technical details - and Crashgate, a year later.

Renault hatched a plan for Nelson Piquet to crash in Singapore, allowing Alonso to claim the most unlikely of wins. The Spaniard has always denied any wrong-doing.

Following his title-winning triumphs at Renault, Alonso fell out with Hamilton during one fractious year at McLaren. A move back to Renault followed, before five fruitless seasons at Ferrari, and a second woeful spell at McLaren.

Alonso tours the Yas Marina circuit ahead of the weekend's season finale

He will retire without a victory in more than five years, without a podium finish in more than four, and heads into Sunday's race 10th in the championship, sandwiched between Kevin Magnussen and Esteban Ocon.

Remarkably, Hamilton has scored more points in his last seven races than Alonso has managed in four years.

Who would have thought that when the fresh-faced Briton was thrown alongside Alonso, who had just beaten Schumacher to two successive titles, nearly 13 years ago?

'If I have to say who my greatest rival was, it will be Michael,' Alonso said on the eve of the season-concluding race.

Alonso and Michael Schumacher shake hands prior to their title showdown in 2006

'When I was go-karting, Michael was winning. When I was in the junior categories, Michael was winning. When I got to Formula One, Michael was dominating. Then, I found myself fighting wheel-to-wheel with him. Those battles were definitely special, and emotional.'

The great and good of F1 will throw a paddock party in Alonso's honour on Saturday evening. Next year, he will set his sights on matching Briton's Graham Hill by winning the Indianapolis 500 - to add to his victories in Monaco and Le Mans - and complete the 'Triple Crown'.

Alonso insisted here that his grand prix career may not be over, but it is highly unlikely he will sit in a Formula One cockpit again.

Alonso celebrates winning his second world championship in 2006 at Interlagos

'It is difficult to think about coming back, but the door is not closed,' he added. 'I don't know how I will feel next year because I've been doing this for my whole life.

'There are negative aspects to Formula One. If you are here for 18 seasons, you have to dedicate your entire life to it. You have no friends, no family, no free time, no privacy, no wife, no kids, no nothing. It is just full dedication if you want to succeed.

'Maybe by April or May, I am desperate, on the sofa, so I find a way to somehow come back. But that's not the idea.'

====== 2438 ========

ESTEBAN OCON WILL BE A RESERVE DRIVER FOR MERCEDES IN 2019

Esteban Ocon has been confirmed as Mercedes reserve driver for next season.

The Frenchman, 22, will be without a race seat in 2019, with Lance Stroll to replace him at Force India after his fashion billionaire father, Lawrence, bought the team.

Ocon is a member of Mercedes' junior programme, and will hope his season as an understudy to Lewis Hamilton and Valtteri Bottas will help him return to the grid in 2020.

Esteban Ocon won't have a race seat for 2019, but will be a reserve driver for Mercedes

Ocon will be losing his Force India spot to Lance Stroll, whose father now owns the F1 team

Bottas, who heads into the final race of the year in Abu Dhabi on Sunday without a win, is out of contract with the Silver Arrows at the end of next season.

'We hope to do the odd test with Esteban next year,' Mercedes team principal Toto Wolff said on Friday.

'He will spend a lot of time in the simulator and be ready for 2020.'

Ocon courted controversy at the last race in Brazil after he collided with leader Max Verstappen. Verstappen responded by shoving Ocon in the chest three times.

Esteban Ocon faced controversy in Brazil after colliding with race leader Max Verstappen

Tensions flared on the weighbridge as Max Verstappen (right) confronted Esteban Ocon

====== 2439 ========

JONNY BAIRSTOW MARKS ENGLAND CENTURY WITH FIERY CELEBRATION UPON RETURN TO THE SIDE

Jonny Bairstow gave an angry, fired-up celebration after marking his return to the England side with a fantastic century against Sri Lanka in Colombo.

Bairstow missed the first Test through injury but was left out of the second because his replacement, Ben Foakes, scored a century on his debut.

Sam Curran's injury paved the way for Bairstow to return with the Yorkshireman placed at England's trouble-spot of No 3 in the order.

Jonny Bairstow marked his England century against Sri Lanka with a fiery celebration

Bairstow lost his place to Ben Foakes in the second Test after being injured in the first

It was Bairstow's sixth Test century and England first from a batsman at No 3 in two years

💯 for Jonny Bairstow - and what a knock!



Promoted to no.3, the Yorkshire wicket-keeper has played superbly to guide England forward after losing two early wickets.



Watch #SLvENG live on Sky Sports Cricket now or follow our live blog here: https://t.co/15oeC8cjl0 pic.twitter.com/32qUGVO11e — Sky Sports Cricket (@SkyCricket) November 23, 2018

And he scored his sixth Test century on his comeback with the hundred also being the first England have had from a batsman at No 3 in two years.

His roar could be clearly heard on the Sky cameras as he ran through after sweeping the ball behind square for a single.

Bairstow made 110 before being bowled out by Lakshan Sandakan to put England on 254-5.

Bairstow went on to make 110 before he was bowled out by Lakshan Sandakan

England captain Joe Root allowed Foakes to keep his spot after replacing Bairstow so well

Bairstow injured himself playing football, paving the way for Foakes to make his debut where he scored a first innings century in England's 211-run victory.

And England captain Joe Root allowed Foakes to stake a claim for a permanent spot in the side off the back of that display, despite Bairstow being an ever-present in the fold.

'Ben in these conditions is the best option behind the stumps,' Root said prior to the second Test. 'You've got to reward a performance like last week.'

====== 2440 ========

STRAY DOG STOPS PLAY! COLOMBO CANINE HALTS SRI LANKA VS ENGLAND TEST

Sri Lanka briefly had an extra fielder on day one of the third Test with England.

A stray dog boldly strode onto the outfield and initially positioned itself at extra cover during Friday's afternoon session in Colombo.

Play was halted while the canine was chased away from the playing area.

A stray dog interrupted play during the third Test between England and Sri Lanka in Colombo

The cheeky canine appeared to be enjoying itself as it strode around the outfield on day one

The dog wagged its tail but fellow locals will have been concerned by England's fine start

The hosts may well have wished that the four-legged fielder had stuck around because moments after it had left the scene Jonny Bairstow had his bat raised in the air to celebrate an impressive century.

Bairstow's ton, which was built from 165 balls, was the highlight of a strong opening day for the tourists, who had already won the series following victories in the opening two Tests.

But shortly after Bairstow ticked past his 100, partner Ben Stokes was out for 57 as he fell victim to Lakshan Sandakan,

Sandakan then bowled Bairstow for 110 and removed Jos Buttler for 16, leaving England 265 for six and hoping for a wag from their tail.

Malinda Pushpakumara later ended Ben Foakes's innings of 13 but Moeen Ali and Adil Rashid remained unbeaten as England reached stumps on 312 for seven.

🐶 DOG STOPS PLAY 🐶



A stray dog is trying to help out Sri Lanka in the field as they struggle to contain England.



Watch #SLvENG live on Sky Sports Cricket now or follow our live blog here: https://t.co/15oeC8cjl0 pic.twitter.com/zGnYIdTg6O — Sky Sports Cricket (@SkyCricket) November 23, 2018

A Sri Lankan fielder halfheartedly tried to shoo the bold dog away from the action area

The dog eventually sprinted away and jumped over the boundary rope before play resumed

Shortly after the dog had left the playing area, England's Jonny Bairstow celebrated a century

Cricket fans watching the Test on television seemed to enjoy the dog's cameo.

Matt Walker posted a photo of his own canine companion watching Sky Sports and captioned it: 'When I grow up, I want to disrupt a Test Match'.

Another viewer added: 'There's a street dog on the pitch!!! There are so many street dogs in Sri Lanka and they're all super friendly and lovely.'

And Tony Watson tweeted: 'There's a very happy looking dog running around the on side in Colombo. I think he was sweeping.'

“When I grow up, I want to disrupt a Test Match” pic.twitter.com/f7xQVoOQHy — Matt Walker (@MattofWalker) November 23, 2018

@guerillacricket there's a street dog on the pitch!!! 😀 😀 😀 There are so many street dogs in Sri Lanka and they're all super friendly and lovely. — Jon Lo Photography (@jonlophoto) November 23, 2018

====== 2441 ========

BAIRSTOW'S CENTURY PUTS ENGLAND IN CONTROL BEFORE SRI LANKA FIGHT BACK

Jonny Bairstow clenched his fists and roared, his face etched with defiance, as he greeted the most significant century of his career with a display of raw emotion that betrayed his feelings at being told to begin again with England at No 3.

There has not been as pointed a celebration as this since Nasser Hussain hit a hundred against India at Lord's and aimed three angry fingers at his detractors in the media centre to show he could bat in the perennial problem position.

Here was another No 3 in Bairstow railing against all the frustration he clearly still feels at losing his place to a freak injury and then seeing Ben Foakes spectacularly seize the wicket-keeper's gloves he holds so dear.

Jonny Bairstow hit a brilliant 100 as England took command of the third Test against Sri Lanka

The No 3 celebrated wildly after reaching three figures on day one at the SSC in Colombo

Bairstow eventually fell for 110 when he was bowled by Lakshan Sandakan before close

Ben Stokes also made a half-century as England put in a commanding display on day one

It was to the media, perhaps, that Bairstow was aiming his apparent anger at a perceived lack of support for his claims to have built up enough credit to remain in the dual-role he had fought so hard to secure.

His roar was followed by a slightly belated acknowledgement of his team-mates, a hug from another England player who can sometimes believe the world is against him in Ben Stokes and a final defiant throwing down of his bat.

It was a passionate reaction, too, from a man who is never afraid to wear his heart on his sleeve, as he showed again by also looking to the heavens and no doubt thinking about the cricketing father in David he lost at such a young age.

This was some performance from Bairstow, who may be a reluctant specialist in this third Test but one certainly good enough to make the No 3 position his own as England seek the best places for their plethora of all-rounders.

And this was exactly the response his captain in Joe Root wanted when he told Bairstow to go out and do something special here at the Sinhalese Sports Club, as his fellow Yorkshireman invariably does when he has a point to prove.

From the moment Bairstow hit his first ball through the covers for four he appeared destined to record the sixth hundred of his Test career and the first by any England No 3 since Root himself in Rajkot two years ago.

Sandakan ended the day with four wickets as Sri Lanka fought back towards close of play

By tea Bairstow had helped England take the first steps towards a formidable third Test score

Bairstow began the fightback in Colombo from his new role at No 3 during the morning session

Bairstow just oozed authority and class on the best batting pitch of this series after Root, astonishingly, had won his eighth successive toss, and then set out to try to claim England's first ever clean sweep of Sri Lanka in their own backyard.

Only when he appeared to tweak that troublesome right ankle and limped through the 80s did Bairstow look at all troubled until he reached his hundred in a partnership of 99 with Stokes that should have put England out of sight.

But, at the risk of being harsh on a batsman who had climbed his own personal mountain, it then seemed as if Bairstow thought the job was done when really he should have gone on towards the double that would have completed it.

First Bairstow should have been given lbw to the outstanding left-arm wrist spin of Lakshan Sandekan on 102 – umpires Chris Gaffaney and S Ravi had a day to forget - before giving it away on 110 with one of a series of careless strokes.

Tempers flared for the first time this series as Sri Lanka became frustrated at umpiring calls

Stokes had reached 38 not out by the end of the afternoon session as England took control

Rory Burns leant back to force a ball off the back foot before seeing his off stump being hit

TOP SPIN AT THE TEST By Lawrence Booth in Colombo Jonny Bairstow's 110 was the first Test hundred by an England No 3 for 51 innings stretching back to Joe Root's 124 against India at Rajkot in November 2016. It's the longest century-less stretch by an England No 3 since the late 1980s. The innings also continued Bairstow's love affair with the Sri Lankan bowling. Three of his six Test hundreds have now come against them – and from only five innings. He made 140 against them at Headingley in 2016, then an unbeaten 167 at Lord's two Tests later. In all, he averages 165 against the Sri Lankans. Bairstow is also proving his versatility. He has now scored a Test half-century or more from five different positions: Nos 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8. The only position in which he has batted without reaching 50 is No 4 – though he's had only two innings there. When it comes to tosses, Joe Root is now the joint-luckiest captain in Test history. This was his eighth win in a row, taking his overall win percentage to 75 – the same as former Australian captain Lindsay Hassett. Using 20 Tests as the minimum, next comes Zimbabwe's Alistair Campbell on 71 per cent.

The one remaining criticism of this England side is that they just do not have the patience and application to go really big, as they should have done here rather than giving Sri Lanka hope of some tangible dead rubber rewards.

Admittedly, the heat and humidity of Colombo were at their most ferocious in the first two sessions, and even a team as fit as England needed to dig deep to maintain the concentration needed to keep out Sri Lanka's spinners.

But they should have ended the first day much better placed to emulate the great India and Australia sides of the recent past who have won 3-0 here than on a score of 312 for seven that represents something of a missed opportunity.

First Rory Burns and Keaton Jennings, who have done themselves a lot of good in this series, perished to indifferent shots before Root gave it away himself with a poorly executed slog sweep when he should have booked in for the day.

Stokes then made a shocking start that would have seen him dismissed without scoring had the excitable Sri Lankan wicketkeeper Niroshan Dickwella not again burned off both their reviews within the first session.

Once Stokes settled he joined with Bairstow in providing echoes of their great partnership in Cape Town, hitting two sixes before he seemed to suffer a lapse of concentration himself in the wake of Bairstow's hundred celebrations.

Keaton Jennings was then dismissed for just 13 after Dhananjaya de Silva took a smart catch

Jos Buttler and even Foakes could be said to have given it away while Moeen Ali was dropped twice and then reprieved twice by technology in an unbeaten 23 that, with the pitch starting to deteriorate, keeps England's noses just in front.

Sri Lankan will certainly be happy with that having displayed frustration themselves and clear dissent to the umpires, Dhananjaya de Silva and Suranga Lakmal both risking the attention of match referee Andy Pycroft with their petulant reactions to decisions that went against them.

But this was a day that belonged to the sensitive and complex figure of Bairstow, who remains a hugely important player for England, and one who, conceivably, could go on to become a truly great batsman without the distraction of the gloves. For now, this was some redemption.

====== 2442 ========

UP FOR THE FIGHT? ENGLAND GEAR UP FOR AUTUMN FINALE AGAINST AUSTRALIA

England are going to have to be up for the fight when the Wallabies come to town on Saturday.

And Nathan Hughes is certainly preparing for that. The Wasps back-rower pulled on his boxing gloves and took aim as Eddie Jones's side put in their final preparations for their last Test of 2018.

There was a jovial and relaxed mood in the England camp, with Maro Itoje trying his hand at some juggling and Jamie George, picked to start this weekend ahead of veteran Dylan Hartley, attempting some place kicking.

England No 8 Nathan Hughes looked up for the fight in training as he donned the boxing gloves

Saracens lock Maro Itoje even tried his hand at some juggling during Friday's captain's run

There appeared to be a jovial atmosphere in the England camp at Twickenham

It may look like England are simply winding down, wrapping up the international calendar for another year, but that is certainly not the case.

After an up-and-down autumn so far, Jones and Co will be desperate to secure a win over their old enemy at Twickenham this weekend.

Manu Tuilagi was also put through his paces during the captain's run and is primed to come off the bench against Australia having been named as a replacement.

Tuilagi was initially named among the replacements for the opening game against South Africa but withdrew with a groin injury that has kept him on the sidelines since.

Jamie George has been picked to start at hooker in place of veteran Dylan Hartley

Although he might think he is starting at fly-half, given his place-kicking drills in training

England coach Eddie Jones will be desperate to round off 2018 with a win over Australia

The powerful Leicester centre has played only a few minutes for England since his last start in 2014 after suffering a series of injuries, but Jones has long been an admirer.

His line-breaking ability gives England an extra dimension in attack and should he join Ben Te'o it would produce a formidable midfield in terms of power.

'Manu's ready to go, so it's a good opportunity for him and the team,' Jones said.

'He absolutely can't wait to get out there. He skins everyone at the pool table so hopefully he can do that on the field as well.'

A full-tilt Tuilagi would certainly be a huge weapon for England and Jones will hope he helps to close the year out with a victory.

====== 2443 ========

ENGLAND V AUSTRALIA FORM GUIDE: MARO ITOJE MUST KEEP HIS DISCIPLINE

England conclude their autumn internationals against Australia at Twickenham on Saturday as they look to wrap up a successful series.

Victory for Eddie Jones' men will be pivotal for confidence with just a year to go before the World Cup in Japan.

Australia, however, will be no walk in the park as they look to end England's recent dominance over them. Here, Sportsmail's NIK SIMON assesses the form of both sets of players heading into Saturday's clash.

Owen Farrell is expected to play a key role in England's clash with Australia at Twickenham

ENGLAND

Elliot Daly 6

Played every minute of the autumn but yet to stamp his mark on the 15 jersey.

Joe Cokanasiga 7

Carries the ball in one hand... but Eddie has warned him pens will fly if he drops it!

Henry Slade 6

Big performance needed with Manu Tuilagi and Jonathan Joseph on the comeback trail.

Ben Te'o 6.5

Could tip the scales as heaviest ever backline if he combines with Tuilagi in second half.

Jonny May 8

Speed demon has impressed but still seeking his first try of the autumn campaign.

Owen Farrell 9

Compared to Jonny Wilkinson after saving the day against Japan with second-half cameo.

Speed demon Jonny May has impressed but is still seeking his first try of the autumn campaign

Ben Youngs 6.5

Inside knowledge of Wallaby play-maker and Leicester team-mate Toomua could be handy.

Ben Moon 7

Tipped to have the edge over Kepu at the scrum by Sportsmail columnist Joe Marler.

Jamie George 6

Changing of the guard at hooker. Better suited to high-tempo game than Dylan Hartley.

Kyle Sinckler 7

Now top of the pecking order. Showing subtle touches to complement powerful carries.

Maro Itoje 8.5

Growing authority in the pack but must keep an eye on his high penalty count.

Maro Itoje is growing authority in the pack but must keep an eye on his high penalty count

Courtney Lawes 7.5

Completes a brand-new lock combination after impressive turnover work against Japan.

Brad Shields 6

Jury still out on his Red Rose credentials despite committed display against New Zealand.

Sam Underhill 7.5

Tackling machine delivered the best game of his career so far in defeat by All Blacks.

Mark Wilson 7.5

Played every back-row position over the last month to become a mainstay in the XV.

AUSTRALIA

Israel Folau 8

Best No 15 in the world but most headlines in 2018 have been about his homophobic views.

Dane Haylett-Petty 6.5

A second full-back who will have studied Youngs' box kicking against the All Blacks.

Samu Kerevi 6.5

Fijian offloading game helps Folau cut dangerous attacking lines through midfield.

Bernard Foley 5.5

Eyebrow raising selection ahead of Kurtley Beale. A target for England's powerful backs.

Jack Maddocks 6

Rookie winger out to make a name for himself after stepping in for Adam Ashley Cooper.

Israel Folau is the best No 15 in the world but headlines in 2018 have been for the wrong reason

Matt Toomua 7.5

Tigers play-maker starts in the Wallaby No 10 jersey for just the second time since 2013.

Will Genia 7.5

Asked Jones to sort tickets for his 100th Test... but backed out when they cost £130 each!

Scott Sio 5.5

Scrum struggled against Wales before conceding a cheap yellow card against Italy.

Tolu Latu 5.5

Former binman is under pressure to improve lineout throwing and harness aggression.

Sekope Kepu 7

Hot-stepping prop has switched back to his strongest side of the scrum.

Izack Rodda 5

Lineout leader has been working closely with All Blacks legend Brad Thorn in Brisbane.

Matt Toomua starts in the Wallaby No 10 jersey for just the second time since 2013

Adam Coleman 6.5

Chief aggressor in the pack but could be off the pace after suffering a stomach bug.

Jack Dempsey 6

Named after 1920s heavyweight champion boxer with skilful ball carrying ability.

Michael Hooper 8

Breakdown specialist recently signed a five-year deal worth a record AUS$6million.

Pete Samu 6

Worked as assistant plumber in Cornwall. Now jack of all trades cover for David Pocock.

====== 2444 ========

RHYS RUDDOCK PRAISES IRELAND COACH JOE SCHMIDT AHEAD OF USA TEST

Joe Schmidt's 'incredible impact' has made Ireland believe they can beat anyone in the world, according to Rhys Ruddock.

Leinster flanker Ruddock will captain Ireland in Saturday's Dublin Test clash with the United States, with boss Schmidt having made 14 changes from the side that stunned back-to-back world champions New Zealand 16-9 last weekend.

Head coach Schmidt will announce his decision on his long-term future next week, with the Kiwi expected to return to his native New Zealand after next year's World Cup when his Ireland contract expires.

Coach Joe Schmidt has made Ireland believe they can beat anyone, says Rhys Ruddock

Schmidt has guided Ireland from eighth to second in the world rankings and overseen three Six Nations titles in five years, and Ruddock believes because of the 53-year-old the men in green now fear no one.

'I think probably from an outsider's point of view, what you see, it's pretty black and white. Joe's impact, it's there for everyone to see,' said Ruddock.

'It's obvious he's an incredible coach and he's had an incredible impact on the environment as well in Leinster. I was able to experience that first-hand and now with Ireland as well.

'But the impact he has on the group, and the belief over the long term, that has grown and grown. We're very lucky we've got him and the other coaches in the set-up doing such a great job.

Ireland edged a low-scoring thriller to shock the All Blacks in Dublin last weekend

Flanker Ruddock (right) is set to captain the side when they host the USA this weekend

IRELAND TEAM VS USA W Addison; A Conway, G Ringrose, S McCloskey, D Sweetnam; J Carbery, J Cooney; D Kilcoyne, N Scannell, F Bealham; T Beirne, I Henderson; R Ruddock (capt), J Conan, J Murphy Subs: R Herring, C Healy, J Ryan, Q Roux, J van der Flier, L McGrath, R Byrne, S Arnold

'When I was younger I wasn't always able to see quite what he was trying to teach, but as you progress you see those intricacies. His rugby knowledge is second-to-none.

'Up until now we've done well and done what we can, and the work done behind the scenes and producing big performances and results, that just feeds the belief all the time.

'But the most important thing now will be the next few months leading into the World Cup.

'We want to go into the World Cup in good form, but right now for the group is a big challenge this weekend.

'The Six Nations is further down the track, but that's another incredible opportunity to test ourselves against some of the best teams in the world.

'As a playing group you've got to be very short-term focused, but we know the coaches have a longer-term plan.'

A strong showing from Ruddock will boost his chances in the absence of Rory Best

Ruddock's status as captain of Ireland's change XV underscores the impressive depth in Schmidt's squad, especially in the back-row.

The 28-year-old ranks among a number of Ireland's extended squad already battling to prove their point for selection for next year's World Cup side.

Peter O'Mahony, CJ Stander and Sean O'Brien are inked in as Ireland's frontline back-row at present, with Josh Van Der Flier and Jordi Murphy pushing hard on the rails.

A strong showing from Ruddock this weekend will doubtless boost his own chances no end however, and he revealed his pride at being trusted by Schmidt to captain the side in Rory Best's absence.

'Joe gave me the opportunity to captain Leinster when I was just 21, and he's helped me grow as a leader from there.

'Being captain is a massive honour. Maybe it shows a little bit of respect from the players; that's the main thing I would hope. But I think there's added responsibility in terms of getting my own performance right and leading from the front.'

Asked if Saturday represents a World Cup trial for Ireland's fringe players, Ruddock replied: 'Not for us as a playing group. We live in such a bubble it really is week to week. All we've been thinking about is the USA and the threats they have.

'I'm sure there are things that it will lead to in terms of pecking order and selection. But we've only had a week to prepare, so getting our detail right is paramount.'

====== 2445 ========

LET'S HIT THEM FOR SIX! JONES WANTS ENGLAND PACK TO BATTER WALLABIES

Bodyline is back. Eddie Jones used cricket's most infamous Ashes series to inspire England's whitewash of the Wallabies two years ago — and the same aggressive principles will apply at Twickenham on Saturday.

The national team set out to smash Australia, for a sixth straight victory over their head coach's home country, as a means of wrapping up a successful autumn campaign.

Just as Don Bradman and Co were roughed up and beaten in 1932-33, that is what England expect to do by imposing their formidable physicality on Saturday. Jones has amassed a staggering array of firepower and he can't wait to inflict an onslaught on the wobbly Wallabies.

Eddie Jones wants England to use their physicality and batter the Wallabies on Saturday

Michael Cheika's side are having a disastrous year and the last thing they need is to be confronted by so much English might — even if a lot of it is imported.

There's Kiwi Ben Te'o at inside centre, Bath's Fiji-born giant Joe Cokanasiga on the wing, another mighty Fijian on the bench — Wasps No 8 Nathan Hughes — and finally, happily, there's Manu Tuilagi, the Anglo-Samoan Leicester centre primed for a long-awaited Test comeback.

Armed with that ball-carrying clout, enhanced by the presence of Kyle Sinckler, a rampaging bull of a prop, and Sam Underhill, the sledgehammer tackler, England are ready to crush their opponents in a quest to finish this Quilter series with three wins from four games. Jones is optimistic that his pack can set the tone.

Manu Tuilagi is primed for a long-awaited Test comeback against Australia at Twickenham

'We'd like to dominate them,' he said. 'It's an important psychological area of the game, the set-piece. We get confidence from dominating that area. And we take confidence away from Australia.'

They have taken plenty of confidence away from Australia in the past two years.

Under this regime, England have faced down this enemy five times in succession, winning the 2016 series Down Under 3-0 and following up that landmark feat by claiming one-off wins at Twickenham in the last two autumn campaigns.

On Saturday, they are trying to reach uncharted territory. Never before have there been six consecutive English Test victories over these foes.

If Saturday afternoon's encounter is close, recent results between the teams will surely affect the outlook of the two sets of players in very different ways, even if England captain Owen Farrell played down the notion his side have a mental hold on Cheika's men.

'I don't know the psychology,' said the fly-half. 'It varies from player to player. Regardless of how many times we have played them, we have to be able to perform when the game gets tough.'

England coach Jones is confident his side have the firepower to dominate Australia

EDDIE JONES' FIVE WINS ON THE TROT England 30-6 Australia (Twickenham, November 2017) England 37-21 Australia (Twickenham, December 2016) Australia 40-44 England (Sydney, June 2016) Australia 7-23 England (Melbourne, June 2016) Australia 28-39 England (Brisbane, June 2016)

England don't want to betray any complacency by implying they have a foot on the throats of the visitors. But they do.

Australia do not appear to have sufficient momentum or belief — not to mention depth of Test personnel — to prevent record-breaking by the hosts at their expense.

Yet, as someone who has been on the other side of the fence, Jones will brace his team for trouble. The former coach of Australia knows what it means to them to play in this fixture, at this venue, and have a shot at the English.

'This is going to be their best performance of the year,' he said. 'This is the game they want to win against the old foe — the Mother Country.

'It's at Twickenham, it's their last game of the year, it's Will Genia's 100th Test, too. They'll be up for it. So all previous form goes out the window.

'These rivalries mean something. History dictates Australia-England is a special match. They'll see this as a chance to put everything right. They can go to the beach as kings of the southern hemisphere.'

Owen Farrell believes they have a mental hold over them and can win for sixth successive time

Australia will be off to the beach all right, but not as kings of anything. This match is a face-saving exercise.

Victory over Italy did little to paper over so many cracks. Cheika is under fire at home for his selections, for his tactics and for so many poor results.

If Rugby Australia weren't so broke, they may have opted for regime change already. Instead, they must remain on this path to next year's World Cup.

Twelve months ago, England needed a last-quarter surge to beat Australia with room to spare, but what they'll want on Saturday is a longer period of productivity.

They have to find the best way to use all their firepower, and they must be adaptable — altering their approach out on the pitch, not in the changing room at half-time.

However England are favourites and rightly so. Jones's bouncers can bring Bodyline home and batter Australia into submission. Again.

====== 2446 ========

MATT GITEAU BACKS JONNY WILKINSON TO UNLOCK THE BEST OUT OF OWEN FARRELL

Matt Giteau spent his twilight years playing alongside Australian nemesis Jonny Wilkinson but it is another England No 10 that now worries the former Wallaby.

Owen Farrell will lead the line against Australia at Twickenham on Saturday and - bad news for the visitors - it is Wilkinson who has been acting as mentor for the fly-half.

'If Jonny can instil the same level of confidence in Owen that he did with us at Toulon, then everything else looks after itself,' said Giteau.

Jonny Wilkinson (right) has been acting as a mentor for England fly-half Owen Farrell

'Owen's a fierce competitor who hits hard and Jonny was very similar. They hate losing.

'All international 10s can catch, kick, pass but Owen's physicality is the one thing that stands out. As an opponent, you know he's there.

'A couple of times you get hit and you're like, "Wow", you know you've been hit. He's England's go-to man and that'll be no different this weekend.'

Giteau and Wilkinson played together at Toulon between 2011 and 2014 and won back to back Heineken Cups. The Englishman once invited Giteau and fellow Aussie Drew Mitchell for a lads' holiday at his Mallorcan villa.

It turned out to be more bootcamp than booze cruise - and so the two Wallabies realised the secret behind the Englishman's success.

'Jonny said "Come down, relax and we'll have a few beers",' said Giteau, who won 103 caps.

'Jonny's more of a Diet Coke guy. The first morning of the holiday, he flogged us up this hill to the point where Drew's spewing. We didn't have a single beer and, the next day, we did the same again!

Matt Giteau believes Wilkinson can unlock the best form out of England star Farrell

'I've never seen anyone work as hard as he did. He's a great guy… the only thing I hate about him is his drop goal against us in 2003!'

England have won their last five games against Australia and Eddie Jones is plotting to continue that winning streak.

Jones has won two out of three so far this autumn and Giteau believes the head coach's stock has risen 11 months out from the World Cup.

'England were one play away from beating the All Blacks so Eddie will be pretty confident of where they're at,' said Giteau, who made his Wallaby debut under Jones in 2002.

'A guy like Eddie's never satisfied so he'll always be a good coach. He's always watching footy and he's always looking to learn.'

Jones' opposite number, Michael Cheika has suffered his fair share of criticism following eight Wallaby defeats out of 12 in 2018.

They have plummeted to seventh in the world rankings, but Giteau disagrees with calls for a change of coach.

'There's a bit riding on it this weekend for the Aussies,' said Giteau. 'A win on Saturday will give them some confidence that they can compete at the World Cup.

'I know Cheik and I think he's the right man for Australia. There may be people calling for his head, but who do you replace him with?

'He's the right man for the job. If the boys put in a big performance, they've got the whole holidays to enjoy it. They'll want to go out and prove a few people wrong.'

====== 2447 ========

WALES AND WARREN GATLAND AIMING TO END AUTUMN TESTS ON CLOUD NINE

Warren Gatland and Wales are fired up to become history boys in Cardiff, treating their final autumn Test against South Africa as a Grand Slam game. The head coach will not have this feeling again. Neither will many of his Welsh players.

Over Gatland's decade they have won two spring Slams in the Six Nations but never swept a series in November. It would also be a ninth Test win on the trot.

Now drinking in the last-chance saloon with Wales, Gatland and his squad want to toast an unbeaten month come full time at the Principality Stadium.

Head coach Warren Gatland is targeting history when Wales host South Africa on Saturday

'It's like a finals situation,' said Gatland on Friday. 'The players are pretty aware of it. I haven't had to say anything. It makes the coaches' job easy. They know they can do something special here.

'It's like when you play the last game of a Six Nations for a Grand Slam. There is no lack of motivation for that. It hasn't been done before and a clean sweep in the autumn would be pretty special.

'They are very well aware of what that means and the consequences for us as a team going forward.'

On this run of eight consecutive wins a harsh critic would say that Wales have not yet beaten a good side, fully fledged and flying, and certainly since the Six Nations.

Wales are on an eight-match winning streak after their dismantling of Tonga last week

Victory over Australia earlier this month gave Wales a first win in 14 against the Wallabies

After home wins against Italy and France, they played a heavily rotated Springboks and changed many themselves in a 'Test' match in Washington DC.

They beat a struggling Argentina twice, who then sacked their coach, before coming home to see off Scotland without Finn Russell and Stuart Hogg and a Tonga side that had barely met before the game.

Between that was the wobbly Wallabies — but that was a win with historical significance, being the first against Australia in 14 attempts.

Nevertheless, only two Welsh sides have ever won more in a row, so a ninth win would be quite something.

'If no one talks about us it doesn't really affect us,' said centre Jonathan Davies.

'I don't think the boys are crying out for attention. It doesn't bother us. There's expectancy on us to go out there and get a result, but we don't feel the pressure.'

South Africa's captain Siya Kolisi is free to play despite head-butting Peter Horne last week

Despite their run of three without defeat against the Boks, Davies knows this final autumn foray will be a proper battle.

'You look at South Africa's performances over the last 12 months, they have certainly improved a lot,' he added. 'They ran New Zealand close. They are extremely physical and it will be a lot tougher task than the last few times we have played against them.'

South Africa's captain Siya Kolisi is free to play despite head-butting Scotland back Peter Horne last week and he defended his disciplinary record.

'I would never do something on purpose to hurt someone else,' he said. 'I have been chilled, it wasn't in my hands.

'I always respect what World Rugby says. I waited and when they told me (I wasn't banned) I was obviously very happy.'

The 27-year-old flanker knows he will have his hands full today as he rates the Welsh as one of the best teams in the world.

'They work hard for one another and they're well coached as well,' he said. 'They believe in what they're doing and it shows, they've won eight in a row.

'Something massive has changed. A lot of their senior players are back and the guys who have been given opportunities are taking them more.

'It's a challenge, their pack is good, they're a very aggressive side, they'll be different to anything we've faced on our tour.'

Kolisi has noted the difference in South Africa under the firefighter Rassie Erasmus

The last two occasions the Boks have come to Cardiff they have been in various circles of hell — but having risen like a Phoenix from the ashes, by beating England and the All Blacks this year, they have doused those engulfing flames.

Kolisi notes the change with firefighter Rassie Erasmus in charge. 'The way we do things is different,' he said. 'How hard we work for each other.

'We have a different coaching staff, they have changed quite a lot of things. We work a lot harder than we did and we believe a lot more than we did.

'Rassie made us realise what's important, it's being a Springbok, rather than you as an individual. Everything you do, you do for the Springboks.'

New Zealand will join Wales, England and France in wearing rainbow laces against Italy in support for Gareth Thomas after the former Wales captain was the victim of an anti-gay attack.

Police say a 16-year-old boy has admitted to the assault in Cardiff last weekend. Thomas said on Twitter: 'I wish I could put in words what this means.'

====== 2448 ========

ERNESTO VALVERDE HOPES BARCELONA RAISE THEIR GAME FOR ATLETICO MADRID SHOWDOWN

Ernesto Valverde hopes Barcelona rise to the occasion once more when they travel to face Atletico Madrid on Saturday evening.

The Catalan club could put breathing room between themselves and Atletico, who are just one point behind the LaLiga leaders after the first 12 matches of the campaign.

Valverde believes Barca generally raise their levels when necessary and is counting on them to do so against a side who finished runners-up to them last season and have been title rivals in recent years.

Ernesto Valverde is hoping Barcelona can reach another gear for Atletico Madrid showdown

Lionel Messi and Co geared up for Saturday's clash by taking part in a training session

The Barcelona head coach said in quotes on his club's website: 'We're responding very well in big games and we hope that this continues. We have a lot of potential and when we exploit this, we're very difficult to beat.

'Atletico Madrid are clear title candidates and we will try to be at our best to win the game. We will try to watch out for their counter-attacks, as well as their set pieces and their players who run well into space.

'We are two sides who have very clear ways of playing, and each side will do what they do. They usually start very strong, and we will try to dominate.'

The spirit in the Barcelona camp appeared high as they went through their final preparations

Jordi Alba (right) was pictured sharing a joke with a team-mate during Friday's session

Philippe Coutinho trained and is in line to start after returning from a thigh injury

Samuel Umtiti is available after a near two-month absence with a knee injury, meaning Valverde must decide whether to break up the centre-back partnership between Clement Lenglet and Gerard Pique.

A shock 4-3 defeat at home to Real Betis just before the international break could make his decision easier but Valverde was coy when asked about whether there was a place for Umtiti in his starting XI.

He added: 'Having another centre back available is positive, but we've also performed very well when we've only had two players available in this position.'

Philippe Coutinho may start after returning to training earlier this week following two weeks out with a thigh injury.

Fellow midfielder Ivan Rakitic misses out through suspension after his red card against Betis, with Arturo Vidal poised to step in.

Atletico Madrid will almost certainly be without Juanfran, who was diagnosed with a 'myofascial injury to the gastrocnemius muscle' in his calf on Thursday.

Fellow defender Diego Godin could be sidelined with a thigh injury but Diego Costa may return after a foot complaint.

Atletico boss Diego Simeone said: 'We have a new opportunity against a great rival.

'We will try to take the game to where we think we can harm them. We will go in search of that.'

Antoine Griezmann is Atletico's dangerman and trained with his team-mates on Friday

====== 2449 ========

CLAUDIO RANIERI INSISTS HE WILL BE TOUGH WITH HIS FULHAM PLAYERS

Claudio Ranieri promises he will flip tables and send objects flying in the changing room if Fulham's players do not follow his instructions, just like he did at Chelsea.

In a warning to his new squad, the normally-cheery Italian insists he will only accept hard-working and passionate performances, starting on Saturday when struggling Southampton visit Craven Cottage.

Fulham sit bottom of the Premier League and Ranieri, who replaced sacked Slavisa Jokanovic over the international break, says he is ready to reveal his lesser-seen angry side.

Claudio Ranieri will only accept hard-working and passionate performances at Fulham

'Don't look at me here, with the smiling. In the dressing room, I am different,' Ranieri said. 'It depends what happens. Sometimes I could take this table and flip it in the air.'

The 67-year-old, who managed Chelsea between 2000 and 2004, was asked whether he had vented frustration like that before. 'At Chelsea,' he answered. 'All the vitamins. Boom! Boom! Boom! 'F***ing hell!' Sometimes I enjoy, sometimes I am very strong.

'My players know me. My players know me very well. We have to fight. Our fans must understand that, at this moment, we have to fight.

'Our fans must be happy when they see their players fighting on the pitch, win or lose.'

The Italian replaced Slavisa Jokanovic at Craven Cottage over the international break

Ranieri has only had two days to work with his full squad following the return of several players from international duty, so they have not yet seen his furious side.

Season at a glance Live tables

Fixtures

Scores Premier League

Premier League

Championship

League One

League Two

Scottish Premiership

Scottish Div 1

Scottish Div 2

Scottish Div 3

Ligue 1

Serie A

La Liga

Bundesliga





'With them? No. With these players, no. Not yet,' Ranieri continued. 'At this moment, I must give confidence. It depends on the result.

'When I say our fans must help us, it is because our players need confidence. They need to feel good feelings with the fans because, maybe, they are a little anxious, nervous. That is normal.

'My plan is to maintain good football but without conceding goals.'

Since leaving Leicester in 2017, Ranieri had a short unsuccessful spell with French side Nantes but was keen to return to the Premier League.

Fulham spent close to £100million on signings in the summer but sit bottom after six successive league losses and have conceded 31 goals this season.

Ranieri has promised owner Shahid Khan that they will survive and the Italian reiterated that belief at his pre-match press conference.

Explaining why, he said: 'Because I know my players. Before coming, I watched matches and said, for me, this is a good team. They lack some energy, something that I can give to them.'

====== 2450 ========

JO KONTA BELIEVES SERENA WILLIAMS WAS WRONG TO ACCUSE UMPIRE OF SEXISM

Jo Konta has stated that Serena Williams was wrong to bring the sexism argument into the most contentious tennis incident of the year, her near disqualification from the US Open final.

The British No 1 took time out from her pre-season to address the Oxford Union this week, and did not shy from discussing the American great's furious outburst against umpire Carlos Ramos.

Williams later claimed that her gender had something to do with her treatment in losing to Japan's Naomi Osaka, but Konta offered support to the Portuguese official.

Jo Konta believes Serena Williams was wrong to accuse US Open final umpire of sexism

'I'm all for equal rights but I don't necessarily always agree when you don't like something, you brush it onto the inequality carpet and say because I'm a woman I didn't get this,' she said.

'I don't necessarily always agree with that approach. I think if you would look at this umpire's history and that were to stand out, then yeah there is an argument to that.

'But I think they took the stats specifically for the US Open and the men actually got significantly more code violations than the women.

'The umpire was right, Patrick Mouratoglou (Williams's coach) was coaching, he said so. He gave a coaching violation. I think that has to be taken separately to then what happened after.'

Konta, who is back in training and last week went on two-day camp in Buckinghamshire with GB Fed Cup team-mates, did have sympathy with the magnitude of the occasion getting to someone even as experienced as Williams.

'One thing that is 100 per cent certain is that emotions are always incredibly high in a match, and I would imagine definitely more so in a Grand Slam final.

'Everybody is human, including Serena Williams, and I think the US Open just brings that out of her. She has been disqualified once before at the same event, so bless her. I think she feels the stress there, that's for sure.

The British No 1 took time out from her pre-season to address the Oxford Union this week

'However, I think you've also then got to look at the umpire. That specific umpire is a stickler for the rules. He gave coaching violations to Djokovic and to Nadal in different Slams.

'I don't believe that was a sexist issue personally. I believe it was emotions running high and things just snowballing. That's what I believe... don't hate me, Serena.

'One thing you cannot take away from Serena is how passionate she is about women's rights.

'It is because of people like her and Billie Jean King that conversations are started, topics are put in the forefront and change can be made.'

Konta, who finished the year ranked 37, has been working with a new coach, Frenchman Dimitri Zavioloff, and is stepping up preparations for the Australian Open in the new year.

====== 2451 ========

BELGIUM'S THOMAS PIETERS AND THOMAS DETRY MOVE INTO SHARE OF THE LEAD AT THE WORLD CUP OF GOLF

Belgium's Thomas Pieters and Thomas Detry overcame rain and gusty winds to take a joint lead with South Korea on day two of the World Cup of Golf.

The Belgian pair mastered the miserable conditions in the foursomes at Metropolitan Golf Club in Melbourne to climb through the leaderboard with a one-under-par 71.

South Korea's An Byeong-hun and Kim Si-woo shot a 72 to finish level with the Belgians on 10-under par at the end of the second round.

Belgium's Thomas Pieters and Thomas Detry overcame rain and gusty winds to take a joint lead

England's Tyrrell Hatton and Ian Poulter finished with a two-over 74 as they slipped two places to tied third alongside Italy, India and Malaysia.

Hatton and Poulter struggled with the elements and carded four bogeys and two birdies having held a joint overnight lead with Australia and South Korea after an opening round 10-under 62.

Australians Cameron Smith and Marc Leishman also struggled with the conditions and are tied for eighth after a four-over 76.

Scotland's Russell Knox and Martin Laird took moved up 23 places into joint eighth after a one-under 71.

Italian pair Andrea Pavan and Renato Paratore finished one under to move up to joint third, while Mexico's Abraham Ancer and Roberto Diaz climbed 13 places to seventh after finishing two under in the best round of the day.

====== 2452 ========

FOOTBALL LEAKS CLAIM RUSSIAN DOPING PROBE WAS INTENTIONALLY DELAYED

FIFA officials intentionally delayed an investigation into Russian doping before the World Cup, according to the latest Football Leaks.

German magazine Der Spiegel alleges that the governing body dodged attempts by Canadian lawyer and world renowned doping expert Richard McLaren to investigate the country ahead of the summer tournament.

They say McLaren had documents he wished to share which implicated Vitaly Mutko, former Russian minister of sport, member of FIFA's Executive Committee and confidante of President Vladimir Putin, as one of the ring-leaders behind a state-run doping system in the country.

Der Spiegel claim the Russian Football Union failed to send the records of tests on 11 players

However, what Der Spiegel claims a long-term tactic to lead McLaren down the garden path then took place over a number of months, which they state 'shows how little interest FIFA has in exploring evidence of problems within the organisation'.

The report alleges that chairwoman of the Investigatory Chamber of FIFA's Ethics Chamber, María Claudia Rojas, was behind a plan to keep McLaren, who served as a special investigator for the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), at bay.

Der Spiegel also claim the Russian Football Union failed to send the records of tests on 11 players suspected of doping, stating that permission of the players was needed and each was on holiday, outside Russia and could not be reached.

On May 22 - three weeks before the start of the World Cup, FIFA subsequently issued a press release announcing that due to 'insufficient evidence' all investigations into Russian national team players for suspected doping had been closed.

====== 2453 ========

CANADA BEAT HONG KONG TO CLAIM THE 20TH AND FINAL PLACE AT THE 2019 WORLD CUP IN JAPAN

Canada defeated Hong Kong 27-10 in the World Cup repechage match in Marseille to claim the 20th and final place at the 2019 tournament in Japan.

Glasgow's DTH Van der Merwe scored two tries with Canada's other touchdown coming from Ray Barkwill.

Gordon McRorie converted all three tries and added two penalties. Hong Kong's try was scored by Conor Hartley with Matthew Rosslee kicking the conversion and a penalty.

Canada defeated Hong Kong in the World Cup repechage match in Marseille on Friday night

The victory places Canada in Pool B with matches against New Zealand, South Africa, Italy and Namibia.

Canada has opposed all four teams previously at Rugby World Cups, and beaten only Namibia, in 1999.

Canada's best finish was the quarter-finals in 1991, when they lost to New Zealand.

====== 2454 ========

BORNA CORIC AND MARIN CILIC PUT CROATIA IN CONTROL OF DAVIS CUP FINAL

Straight-sets wins for Borna Coric and Marin Cilic put Croatia firmly in control of their Davis Cup final clash with France in Lille.

French captain Yannick Noah gambled by leaving out his top-ranked player Lucas Pouille in favour of Jeremy Chardy and Jo-Wilfried Tsonga for the opening singles rubbers but it did not pay off.

France are looking to win back-to-back titles for the first time since the early 1930s but now must come out on top in the remaining three matches over the next two days.

Marin Cilic celebrates after claiming a 6-3, 7-5, 6-4 victory over Jo-Wilfried Tsonga

That appears highly unlikely based on the respective performances on Friday on the indoor clay surface at the Stade Pierre Mauroy, with Croatia one step away from emulating their 2005 triumph.

22-year-old Coric continued his breakthrough 2018 by defeating Chardy 6-2, 7-5, 6-4 before Cilic claimed a 6-3, 7-5, 6-4 victory over Tsonga.

Noah had no doubt hoped the occasion would inspire Tsonga, ranked down at 259 following knee surgery, to find some vintage form but he was no match for world number seven Cilic.

Borna Coric continued his breakthrough 2018 with victory over Jeremy Chardy

Noah had no complaints about the results, saying on daviscup.com: 'We lost against better players and a better team today. When we had break points, they always found first serves and it felt like we never had any real opportunities. It was another level.'

His Croatia counterpart Zeljko Krajan hailed the mental strength of Cilic and Coric, saying: 'I was hoping the quality from Borna and Marin would prevail and that was the case, but it was because they were not overawed by the crowd. It was a great day for us.'

France at least have a good chance of pushing the tie into Sunday, with Nicolas Mahut and Pierre-Hugues Herbert narrow favourites for Saturday's doubles rubber against Mate Pavic and Ivan Dodig.

====== 2455 ========

LYON 1-0 ST ETIENNE: JASON DENAYER SCORES SOLITARY GOAL TO SECURE WIN FOR 10-MEN

Jason Denayer's first goal for Lyon fired them up to second following a 1-0 win over St Etienne.

But they had to survive the last 20 minutes with 10 men following a red card for Rafael.

Lyon, beaten just once at home this season, almost took a 10th-minute lead but Nabil Fekir headed Ferland Mendy's cross wide.

Scroll down for video of Rafael's red card

Jason Denayer scored the only goal as Lyon edged out St Etienne to claim the win on Friday

The Lyon defender climbed above his man to flick the ball into the net from a corner

The home side had to see the final 20 minutes out with 10 men after Rafael saw red

Yet St Etienne created a host of first-half chances with Anthony Lopes saving from Lois Diony and Mathieu Debuchy while Remy Cabella and Neven Subotic missed the target.

After the break Lyon's Maxwel Cornet fired over the crossbar and Moussa Dembele shot narrowly wide after he was set up by Memphis Depay.

1-0 up...

Controlling the game...



Rafael da Silva what are you thinking? 😮



The former Man Utd man saw red for flying into a two-footed challenge 👀 pic.twitter.com/FmbY3Msp1G — Football on BT Sport (@btsportfootball) November 23, 2018

The defender lunged out of control with both feet off the ground as he challenged Yann M'Vila

Rafael crashed into the St Etienne midfielder's leg and was immediately shown the red

And their pressure told in the 62nd minute when Denayer rose highest to power a downward header home from Depay's corner.

However, eight minutes later the hosts were reduced to 10 men when Rafael saw red for a foul on Yann M'Vila.

Timothee Kolodziejczak, Cabella and Yannis Salibur had chances to equalise but they couldn't hit the target.

Nabil Fekir (left) shows a good burst of acceleration to escape M'Vila's attention

====== 2456 ========

'KEANE IS TOTALLY DIFFERENT FROM THE PLAYER WHO STARTED THIS SEASON', SAYS EVERTON BOSS SILVA

Marco Silva has revealed a series of one-to-one meetings with Michael Keane helped the Everton defender overcome a confidence crisis to play for England again.

Keane has started the season in excellent form and the reward for his consistency came when Gareth Southgate selected him for his squad for the games against the United States - a match in which he impressed - and Croatia.

During the international break, Keane opened up on the mental anguish he endured following his £25million move from Burnley.

Everton boss Marco Silva has praised Michael Keane (right) for his improvement this season

His form suffered due to an injury he suffered early on and he became so anxious that he did not want to leave his house.

Silva, though, has helped nurture Keane back. Everton's head coach has held a succession of one-to-one meetings with his squad and Keane, in particular, has benefitted.

'One of the most important things in football, apart from quality, is confidence,' said Silva, whose side face Cardiff on Saturday.

Keane produce his best form since moving to Everton at the start of last season under Silva

'If you do not have confidence in your job, not just in football, and you do not have confidence in what you are doing it is normal you do not perform well and show your quality. It is easy for me to understand and maybe for all watching how Michael is different now.

'The decisions he takes on the pitch, his confidence in challenges. The Michael who started in pre-season is different, the confidence has come.

'He is learning every day. That is why I am saying (now) he is a different player. The national coach feels the same way and that is why he picked him.'

====== 2457 ========

ENGLAND HOPING SCOT KIRSTIE GORDON CAN SPIN THEM TO WORLD CUP DOUBLE

England are hoping the increasing influence of a Scot can help them topple Ashes rivals Australia and complete double World Cup glory.

Heather Knight's team have followed their 50-over success at Lord's last year by beating India to reach the final of the World Twenty20, which begins at midnight on Saturday UK time.

Three-time champions Australia await a much-changed England XI denied the services of senior players Sarah Taylor and Katherine Brunt in the Caribbean due to anxiety issues and injury respectively.

Kirstie Gordon jumps on Tammy Beaumont as England celebrate beating India in Antigua

Conditions at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium in Antigua suggest that a former member of the auld enemy, Kirstie Gordon, the slow left-armer who switched allegiance from Scotland on the eve of the tournament, will have a major say in the outcome.

Only West Indies' Deandra Dottin has more wickets at the tournament than the eight Gordon has taken in her first fortnight as an England player. Last summer the 21-year-old was the most prolific bowler in women's county cricket with Nottinghamshire.

'The way our spinners bowled in the middle was outstanding. Kirstie Gordon has been outstanding on her first tour,' captain Knight said after Friday's eight-wicket win over India at the same ground. 'I think spin's going to play a part again in the final as it looks like a similar pitch.'

Amy Jones scored 53 runs for England and hit the winning runs at the end of the game

Nat Sciver also notched her own 50 to ensure England started the chase well

India were suffocated by the surface after racing to 43 runs by the end of the power play.

English quartet Gordon, Knight, Danielle Hazell and Sophie Ecclestone returned combined figures of 13.3-0-71-7 as India were bowled out for 112. Housemates Amy Jones and Nat Sciver both hit half-centuries to take England home in 17.1 overs.

'We just wanted to be there at the end basically,' said player of the match Jones, Taylor's replacement behind the stumps.

Women's world Twenty20 final: Australia v England. TV: LIVE on Sky Sports from 11.30pm (play starts at midnight).

====== 2458 ========

POLICE CALL ON ENGLAND FANS TO REPEAT THEIR BEHAVIOUR AT THE WORLD CUP

Police have called on England fans to repeat their behaviour at the World Cup when they head to the Nations League Finals next year.

Supporters won praise during the Three Lions' unexpected run to the semi-final in the summer.

However, that was sandwiched between ugly scenes at a friendly in Holland and at the Nations League group match in Spain.

Police want England fans to repeat their World Cup behaviour at the Nations League Finals

And earlier this week Sportsmail revealed that there are fears trouble may rear its head again at the four-match finale in Portugal next summer.

The proximity of the venue and relatively cheap cost of travelling there - coupled with a surge in popularity for the national team - means thousands are expected to follow England at the Nations League finals.

Following the draw next month, FA officials will meet with police counterparts to help draw up a plan. And Deputy Chief Constable Mark Roberts, the lead on football policing in the country, wants a Russian repeat.

'What we want to see in Portugal is a return of fan behaviour as it was in Russia last summer - fans helping to create a friendly and celebratory atmosphere,' he said. 'We are, however, conscious we could return to the behaviour displayed in Amsterdam and Seville.

Video footage showed England fans running riot in Seville ahead of last month's international

'The mindless behaviour of a minority of travelling fans there was disappointing to see and will undoubtedly influence the way in which future venues and local police plan for and approach England supporters ahead of the tournament in 2019.'

Restricted sales of booze could come into play and Roberts believes that alcohol, rather than organised thuggery, is behind most issues.

'We will be working closely with the FA and the local police force in preparations for the forthcoming tournament,' he said.

'Where appropriate, we will always seek to use the banning order legislation against those seen to be involved in football-related disorder, and there may be conversations to be had around licensing restrictions as it is clear alcohol is often at the root of the problem.'

====== 2459 ========

BORUSSIA DORTMUND SIGN STRIKER PACO ALCACER FROM BARCELONA IN £24.7M DEAL

Borussia Dortmund have agreed to sign Barcelona striker Paco Alcacer in a deal worth €28million (£24.7m).

The 25-year-old Spanish international has impressed on loan in Germany this season, scoring nine goals in eight games for Dortmund, prompting the Bundesliga leaders to make the move permanent with a five-year deal from January.

Dortmund have agreed to pay €23m plus a potential €5 million in add-ons.

Borussia Dortmund have agreed to sign Barcelona striker Paco Alcacer in a deal worth £24.7m

'Today we informed Barcelona we will activate the option to buy,' Dortmund's sporting director Michael Zorc said in a statement on Friday.

Having struggled to break into the Barcelona side after his move from Valencia in 2016, Alcacer found a new home in Dortmund and was recently recalled to the Spain squad thanks to his good form for the German club.

'I am very happy in Dortmund, at the club and in this wonderful squad,' said Alcacer.

'Borussia Dortmund has been and is exactly the right decision for me. I will do everything I can to pay back their trust with performances and goals.'

====== 2460 ========

TOTTENHAM V CHELSEA BEST BETS PLUS PREMIER LEAGUE PICKS

The Premier League is back after the international break with Tottenham against London rivals Chelsea on Saturday night the pick of the bunch.

Leaders Manchester City are at West Ham while Liverpool, just two points behind, are also on the road at Watford.

Claudio Ranieri takes charge of Fulham for the first time in a game that could signal the end of the road for the man in the opposite dugout - Southampton manager Mark Hughes .

Here's our game-by-game betting guide to the top flight - all kick-offs 3pm unless stated.

Brighton v Leicester

Backing a draw in this one looks a good shout. Since losing to Saturday’s opponents back in March, Brighton have lost just one of their last eight Premier League home games and this season have won three and drawn one of their five at the Amex Stadium. Not too bad, but only slightly better than Leicester’s record on the road this term. They’ve taken nine points - three wins and three defeats - from six trips and won their most recent, at Cardiff, before heading into the international break on the back of a goalless draw at home to Burnley. Get on the draw at 23/10 with Betfair while several bookies have 1-1 at 11/2.

Everton v Cardiff

Cardiff took a while to find their feet and get that first win of the season and a second followed shortly after, against Brighton in Wales just before the break. The chances of them bagging a third are slim though. They’ve scored fewer away goals than any other side in English league football (two) and face an Everton side who are looking for a fourth win on the spin in front of their own fans. A 3-1 loss to West Ham is their only defeat in their last nine at Goodison, a run stretching back to March. Since that setback, they’ve seen off Fulham, Crystal Palace and Brighton by two goals or more and should take care of business against the Bluebirds with just as little fuss. They’re 4/9 for the points or 10/3 to win by a two-goal margin and 11/4 to win by three or more.

Fulham v Southampton

Welcome back, Claudio Ranieri. Leicester’s miracle man has returned to the Premier League and his first game as Fulham boss could be Mark Hughes’ last in charge of Southampton. Hughes did well to see out the international break as it’s often prime time for a sacking and the St Mary’s axe has been getting sharpened for a few weeks. After eight league games without a win, the Welshman is 5/6 favourite in the sack race - another former Fulham boss, Crystal Palace’s Roy Hodgson, is next at 8/1. There’s some hope for Hughes in that Fulham’s recent run is even worse, seven straight defeats in all competitions and just the single top-flight win, way back in August. But the new-boss bounce makes the Cottagers the call and a home win is 13/8 while Aleksandar Mitrovic in the score-win double is 3/1.

Claudio Ranieri takes charge of his first Fulham game when Southampton arrive

Manchester United v Crystal Palace

Manchester United don’t lose to Crystal Palace in the Premier League. They just don’t. Eighteen times they’ve squared up with United winning 15 and losing three. And no wins for the Eagles in their last seven since a League Cup victory at West Brom isn’t the type of form that suggests a trend is about to be bucked. United are no better than 2/5 but better than 2/1 with most bookies to win with both teams scoring. This is sure to be a popular pick, especially among punters who have read this about how even the defence in front of the brilliant David de Gea can’t keep a clean sheet. United were outplayed by Man City last time but Anthony Martial, one of four players Jose Mourinho branded 'spolit kids', was on the scoresheet again. Backing him with David Silva landed us a 12/1 double when he claimed his sixth goal in seven games and we’ll be on him to make it at least seven in eight. Spoilt or not he knows where the net is and he’s 8/5 at anytime with Sportingbet. Bet365 have him at 8/1 to score two or more.

Anthony Martial has found his touch with six goals in is last seven games

Watford v Liverpool

Is Virgil van Dijk taking the mickey? Not only is he pushing forward and missing chances when we back him to score but he’s saving his goals for when he pulls on a Holland jersey. The big defender scored against Germany at the start of the week and that’s the second he’s put past Holland’s fierce rivals in just over a month. William Hill have him at 10/1 to score at anytime at Watford but we can’t back him again. Well, maybe just once more! He’s certainly worth backing to keep a clean sheet. The Reds have let in just two goals in their last seven games (all competitions) and just five in a dozen league outings. That’s the same as Manchester City. Liverpool are 8/15 to leave with the points or 7/4 to win without conceding.

Virgil van Dijk hasn't given anytime scorer backers much to smile about recently

West Ham v Manchester City

Most bookies are offering double figures for a West Ham win against the Premier League pace-setters but we’ve sniffed out a much better option at 14/1. City should walk this - they’re aggregate score against West Ham at the London stadium is 13-1 (three games) while Pep Guardiola has won all four games he’s played against them - 13-3 is the aggregate there. More goals in the first half appeals - that’s been the case in three of City’s last four away games with the other a goalless draw - and they’ve got a Champions League tie in midweek to think about. Raheem Sterling is arguably the player of the season so far - he’s worth backing to add to his six Premier League goals and surely City can force more than four corners. So, Sterling at anytime, first half to have the most goals, City to have more than four corners and more than three goals in the game in total is the bet. Sounds simple. It’s 12/1 with bet365's bet builder.

We'll be on Raheem Sterling to return from international duty and carry on his fine form

Tottenham v Chelsea - Saturday 5.30pm

Tottenham are like the toddlers of the Premier League - they hate sharing. None of their last 16 top-flight fixtures have ended all square and that’s the longest run in the division. They don’t really like winning at Wembley either though. They’ve only done it twice this term, bagging six of their 27 points at ‘home’ or 22 per cent, the lowest ratio in the division. It’s not the best state to be in ahead of a visit of unbeaten Chelsea but, and there’s always a but, the Blues don’t seem to like Tottenham away. They won this fixture during the last campaign but that was one of just two victories in the last 12. It’s got draw written all over it and Spurs are due one. It’s 5/2 it finishes all square or 17/5 (BetVictor) it’s a draw with both teams scoring. Tottenham to be winning at the break before sharing the spoils is 15/1 (BetVictor)

Bournemouth v Arsenal - Sunday 1.30pm

The international break came at a good time for Arsenal as they were slowly undoing the good work of that mammoth winning run by drawing three straight in the league - the stalemates against Palace and Wolves much more disappointing than the 1-1 with Liverpool. They’ve also had the luxury of several big names - Alexandre Lacazette, Mesut Ozil and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang among others - not heading off with their countries. Bournemouth did have key men out and about but Ryan Fraser and Callum Wilson will be back with a spring in their step after shining for Scotland and England respectively. On paper there’s a lot to like about this match between the third-highest and fifth-highest scorers in the league. Their six Premier League meetings have produced 20 goals so have a look at over 4.5 in the game at 3/1 with a few bookies. Elsewhere, the slow-starting Gunners have conceded first in their last four and the Cherries are 13/10 to break the deadlock. This one also looks like the best bet for both teams to score in both halves. That’s 15/2 with bet365.

Wolves v Huddersfield - Sunday 4pm

Wolves are now four without win but there were plenty of positives to be picked from the most recent outing - a 1-1 draw at Arsenal that snapped a three-game losing run. For Huddersfield, positives are few and far between. Their only win of the season - against Fulham - is fresh in the memory but they are still the top-flight's lowest scorers (six goals) and haven't managed more than one goal in any of their last 22 Premier League games. They're also without a win in their last 10 away from home. Despite their lowly league position and their stats painting a far from pretty picture, they haven't been destroyed by an opponent since the 6-1 at Man City (3-0 at Watford at the end of October is about as bad it as it's been since). For Wolves, this should be straightforward if unspectacular. The hosts are 1/2 and correct-score backers could do worse than 2-0 at 11/2.

Burnley v Newcastle - Monday 8pm

You wait three months for a win and then two come along at once. Newcastle's season finally got going with victories over Watford and Bournemouth and they'll have more than a few punters piling on at 9/5 for a third in a row at Turf Moor - especially with Burnley taking just two points from the five games they've played since winning at Cardiff at the end of September. That sorry sequence has left them just a point above the drop zone - just like Monday night's opponents. So, there's little between them but on form, Newcastle get the nod. Just. Bank any weekend winnings but maybe keep a tiny bit back for a half-time draw and a Toon win. That's 11/2 with a few firms.

====== 2461 ========

NEWCASTLE MANAGER RAFA BENITEZ REGRETS PAUL DUMMETT'S LATEST HAMSTRING INJURY PLAYING FOR WALES

Rafa Benitez believes the loss of key defender Paul Dummett would have been avoided had he been playing for Newcastle rather than Wales.

The 27-year-old has established himself as first choice under Ryan Giggs at international level, but is now facing a prolonged spell on the sidelines after injuring his hamstring in their 2-1 defeat by Denmark last weekend.

Dummett's absence is a problem for Benitez given the club's failure to strengthen the left-back position in the summer is one of his major gripes.

Rafa Benitez says Paul Dummett would have avoided injury had he been playing for Newcastle

The academy graduate has a history of hamstring issues and missed four months last season with a similar complaint.

Benitez feels the player may have been a little too keen to impress after feeling a twinge earlier in the game, something which would have immediately forced his withdrawal for Newcastle.

'He knows his body and normally he's managing that,' said Benitez, who could use Chelsea loanee Kenedy at left back for Monday's trip to Burnley.

The 27-year-old (right) hurt his hamstring on international duty for Wales against Denmark

'In this case, in an international game, we couldn't have any control. Then (after feeling it) he carried on and he felt it a little bit harder - and then that's it.'

Benitez, though, is keen to avoid a row with Giggs and his medical team. 'I don't want to blame anyone,' he added.

'In the end, the players have some experience and also they can manage (the situation). We were in contact with Wales and had all the plans that they were doing, but we cannot change anything now.

'There are so many factors which are different (for players on international duty) and it's a risk.'

====== 2462 ========

UNAI EMERY: ARSENAL'S UNBEATEN RUN IS NOT THE RESULT OF A FRIENDLY FIXTURE LIST

They have faced likes of Wolves, Crystal Palace and Leicester in recent weeks

Arsenal are looking to go 17 games without defeat when they face Bournemout h

Unai Emery has hit back at those who say Arsenal's 16-match unbeaten run is the result of a kind fixture list, insisting there are no easy matches in England.

Arsenal, who sit fifth in the table, are looking to secure No 17 without defeat when they travel to Bournemouth in the Premier League on Sunday.

They have faced the likes of Wolves, Crystal Palace, Leicester and Fulham in their run and Emery does not accept the suggestion that it has been plain sailing for his side.

Unai Emery has hit back at those who say Arsenal's good run is the result of a kind fixture list

'Every match in the Premier League, we have to play for three points,' Emery said. 'It was the same three points against Liverpool, like another team.

'I said at the start of this press conference, we are well. Yes, we are well. Sixteen matches, we've not lost, it's good. But also we have ambition and we want more and we need more. In the three last matches, we draw. It is not enough. We need more.'

Arsenal have been criticised for their slow starts, with them yet to head in with a half-time lead.

'We can speak about statistics for a long time,; Emery added. 'We are scoring a lot. It's good? Yeah, it's perfect, 26 is a very big statistic in front of goal. But also we are conceding 15.

'We need more. I am knowing every day, the players better. I am knowing every day, the competition better.'

====== 2463 ========

UNAI EMERY BELIEVES ROB HOLDING HAS VINDICATED ARSENAL'S DECISION TO KEEP HIM

Unai Emery believes Rob Holding has vindicated the club's decision to keep him at Arsenal this season.

The defender has started 11 of the last 13 games across all competitions and has developed into a key figure in Emery's first six months in charge at the Emirates Stadium.

Holding admitted recently that he was 'disappointed' to miss out on the last England squad and is still targeting a debut senior cap.

Unai Emery believes Rob Holding has vindicated the club's decision to keep him at Arsenal

The 23-year-old stayed put following Emery's arrival, while fellow centre-back Calum Chambers joined Fulham on loan.

Coupled with injuries to Laurent Koscielny and Konstantinos Mavropanos, Holding has seized his chance and appears to have impressed Emery along the way.

'We decided for him to stay here and when he had chances, he played well and he helped us with big performances,' the Gunners head coach said of Holding.

'Every match is a test, another test for Rob to do that. He is improving, he is taking confidence and with confidence he is at his best.

'In the pre-season we also had Mavropanos - but he is injured now - we had also Chambers and we decided to let him go on loan to Fulham and we decided that Rob Holding stayed here.

'But in the pre-season, every decision was looking at the matches with the players and finding the best performance in this moment.'

Defender has developed into a key figure in Emery's first six months in charge at the Emirates

Season at a glance Live tables

Fixtures

Scores Premier League

Premier League

Championship

League One

League Two

Scottish Premiership

Scottish Div 1

Scottish Div 2

Scottish Div 3

Ligue 1

Serie A

La Liga

Bundesliga





Holding's place may come under threat in the next few weeks as Mavropanos and Koscielny return from their respective injuries.

Club-captain Koscielny is stepping up his return from an Achilles injury he suffered in the Europa League semi-final defeat to Atletico Madrid in May.

Emery has not ruled out slowly introducing Koscielny back into action, starting with Monday's Under-23 fixture against Derby.

'The process with him is that in this International break, it is to finish training with us every day to start playing, little by little,' he said.

'First, our idea is to start with the Under-23s, but also, these two weeks training with us, I am looking at him. He is well, with good performance, good feeling and I think he, today, is close to also play with us.

'But the first idea is, and maybe on Monday, he can play with the 23s. We are going to decide tomorrow the plan with him, but we are thinking for him to start to take minutes.'

====== 2464 ========

HODGSON INSISTS HIS CRYSTAL PALACE SIDE IS PACKED WITH TOP PLAYERS

Crystal Palace manager Roy Hodgson is reluctant to sell his club short by continually having to answer questions about players potentially leaving.

Defender Mamadou Sakho is the latest player whose future has come into the spotlight after he gave an interview when on international duty with France suggesting he has ambitions to play in the Champions League, while Wilfried Zaha is regularly linked with moves away from Selhurst Park.

Hodgson accepts his squad is full of players who could make the step up, but thinks the Eagles can keep them happy.

Roy Hodgson spoke to the media at a press conference ahead of the trip to Manchester United

Mamadou Sakho is the latest Crystal Palace player to be linked with a move to a top club

'I don't think Zaha is the only player in our squad that is capable of playing at a higher level for one of the teams above us in the league,' Hodgson said.

'But we are lucky enough to have them under contract and we try our best to make certain they are happy here and satisfied with everything Crystal Palace can provide for them.

'I think we can provide a lot, I don't underrate ourselves to the extent that I am being encouraged to constantly talk about the top four or five clubs.'

Sakho has been one of the leading performers for Palace this season at centre-half and Hodgson has no issue with him speaking about his ambitions, because he knows the club are in a position of power.

The former England manager added: 'I don't think you can expect them to give any other answer than the one they give.

'I don't know anything about the potential moves Mamadou is talking about, they were never brought to my attention.

Hodgson insists he has plenty of top players in his ranks at Crystal Palace this season

'As a club we weren't faced with any bids to reject or accept. As far as I am concerned, this season his performances and his attitude and the way he has taken so much responsibility has been exemplary.

'So I don't pay too much attention to the stories that come out of international camps because they are always biased in a certain way, Mamaodu is committed here and we know that we will have that commitment for as long as he stays here.

'If he has ambitions to leave we have two years of a contract left and we will have to deal with the offers when they come in, but at the moment it is not something we are concerned with.'

Palace will need Sakho, who has shaken off a knock picked up on international duty, to be at his best when they visit Manchester United on Saturday.

Star man Wilfried Zaha has been continuously linked with a move away from south London

They have taken just two points from their last seven Premier League games and Hodgson is not buying the assertion that visiting Old Trafford, where United have not been great this season, will be any easier than usual.

'We are playing against a very good team, with top quality players,' he added. They are top class internationals in top class teams. It is Old Trafford, which is a very difficult place to go and get results.

'I don't see anything that will make our task any easier than it always is when you go there.'

Zaha is fit enough to return after a hamstring injury, with James Tomkins back from a knee problem.

====== 2465 ========

MANCHESTER UNITED FINED £7,000 FOR THREE PITCH INVASIONS IN JUVENTUS DEFEAT

Manchester United have been fined £7,000 over three separate pitch invasions during their Champions League defeat by Juventus last month.

The incidents occurred during United's 1-0 loss to the Italian giants, in which Paolo Dybala scored the decisive goal.

And UEFA announced on Friday that United will be sanctioned to the tune of £7,000 for the security lapse.

All three of the invaders appeared to run towards Cristiano Ronaldo, with the Juventus star taking a selfie with one that made it onto the pitch after full-time.

Manchester United have been fined £7,000 for three pitch invasions when they faced Juventus

Cristiano Ronaldo took a selfie with one of the pitch invaders at Old Trafford

It later emerged that one of the pitch invaders got into Old Trafford with two toy guns in his bag.

He did not take them on the pitch. Afterwards, United said they were reviewing their 'pitchside security protocol'.

It is the second time United have been fined by Uefa this season.

They were fined £13,000 for the late kick-off of their match with Valencia at Old Trafford last month.

====== 2466 ========

MENDY TO MISS UP TO THREE MONTHS WITH ANOTHER KNEE INJURY, PEP CONFIRMS

He suffered a meniscus problem after the 3-1 victory over Manchester United

Benjamin Mendy underwent surgery and rehabilitation in Spain last week

Pep Guardiola revealed Benjamin Mendy will miss up to three months with another knee injury.

Mendy underwent surgery in Barcelona with Dr Ramon Cugat last week and stayed in Spain until Thursday for continued rehabilitation.

The left back suffered a meniscus problem after the 3-1 victory over Manchester United before the international break.

Pep Guardiola revealed Benjamin Mendy will miss up to three months with another knee injury

The left back suffered a meniscus problem after the 3-1 victory over Manchester United

That is not a repeat of the cruciate knee ligament injury that saw him miss the majority of last season but Mendy is still set for a significant spell on the sidelines.

’It’ll be 10-12 weeks,’ Guardiola – who also confirmed Bernardo Silva is not fit - said before Saturday’s game against West Ham.

City will not enter the January market to find a replacement for Mendy, although his repeated injury issues are a concern.

Guardiola also heaped praise on former City manager Manuel Pellegrini, who will face his old employers for the first time at the London Stadium.

It is not a repeat of the knee ligament injury which saw him miss the majority of last season

Earlier this week City posted a video in which Mendy was seen with a bandaged right knee

Pellegrini deployed an attractive style of play at the Etihad Stadium and Guardiola added: ‘When you are a blind guy you recognise his style.

‘At Villarreal he was incredible. A small city, the way they played and owned a style was impressive. He made 96 points at Real Madrid and then won the league here.

'He helped this club to be where we are right now. He’ll do well at West Ham, where there are many good supporters.’

====== 2467 ========

AUSTRALIA NO 8 DAVID POCOCK IS RULED OUT OF ENGLAND CLASH WITH NECK INJURY

England have been handed a boost on the eve of their Cook Cup clash with Australia after Wallaby back-rower David Pocock was withdrawn from the team because of a neck problem.

Pocock has been nursing the injury all season but it became more severe after taking a blow against Italy last weekend, making his involvement at Twickenham dependent on a fitness test on Friday, which he has failed.

The 30-year-old Brumbies No 8, an accomplished breakdown specialist, had been identified by England earlier in the week as Australia's greatest threat.

Israel Foalu lets off a grin as Australia prepare for their clash with England this weekend

Australia were dealt a blow for England clash after David Pocock was withdrawn from the team

Michael Hooper and team-mates were put through their paces at Twickenham on Friday

Michael Cheika is yet to announce a replacement for Pocock as he aims to end 2018 with a win

A replacement has yet to be named by the Wallabies.

England boss Eddie Jones believed Australia's outward concerns over Pocock's fitness was simply mind games.

However, Pocock's withdrawal from the squad is evidence that his injury is indeed serious and will come as a massive blow to Wallabies boss Michael Cheika, who will be desperately seeking a win to close out 2018.

Will Genia tests out his kicking skills as he prepares for the autumn Tests finale

Kurtley Beale looks to toss the ball to a team-mate during Friday's captain's run

Cheika shared some concerns over England's approach ahead of the Twickenham showdown.

He accused Eddie Jones' side of deliberately landing late tackles on their half-backs, a repeat of claims he made last year.

'We know they are going to consistently target Bernard Foley and the half-back post-delivery,' said Cheika.

'It is just something we have to deal with. If we are better at the ruck they won't be able to have that player there to target those guys.

'If you can get away with it that is fair enough. Play on. The guy has got to get off the floor to get back in the picture.

'They probably think they can get us rattled. They have had a few wins the last couple of years here so it is probably working so we have got to make sure we get on top of that.'

Cheika is under pressure to end the year on a winning note, having lost eight out of 12 Tests in 2018.

====== 2468 ========

PSG STARS NEYMAR AND KYLIAN MBAPPE COULD BE FIT TO FACE LIVERPOOL NEXT WEEK

Injured strikers Kylian Mbappe and Neymar will miss Paris Saint-Germain's Ligue 1 clash with Toulouse on Saturday but both could be back for next week's Champions League tie with Liverpool, coach Thomas Tuchel said on Friday.

Neymar tweaked his groin in Brazil's 1-0 win over Cameroon on Tuesday and Mbappe hurt his shoulder in France's 1-0 victory against Uruguay the same night.

But Tuchel said medical reports were encouraging, especially for Neymar, and that he hoped both will be fit by Wednesday.

Neymar and Kylian Mbappe were both injured on international duty, but could be fit next week

Neymar (above) and Mbappe will miss PSG's match against Toulouse in Ligue 1 on Saturday

Thomas Tuchel led PSG training today knowing he'd be without two star men for Toulouse

Dani Alves attended training ahead of Paris Saint-Germain's trip to Toulouse on Saturday

'We will not take any chances with Neymar and Kylian Mbappe (against Toulouse), they will not be present,' French newspaper L'Equipe quoted him telling reporters on Friday.

'The possibility exists that they will play against Liverpool. Today, after talking to the doctor, for me Neymar can play on Wednesday.'

The Liverpool tie is a crunch one for the French club. PSG sit third in Group C, a point behind joint leaders Liverpool and Napoli with two games remaining.

Coach Thomas Tuchel says that it's possible Mbappe and Neymar will play against Liverpool

Layvin Kurzawa and Maxim Choupo-Moting in Paris Saint-Germain training this afternoon

Cavani trains knowing he'll have more pressure on him to score with Neymar and Mbappe out

The Champions League is the main focus for the ambitious club this season, with the French league already looking a formality as they sit 13 points clear at the top of the table with 13 wins out of 13.

Winger Julian Draxler, meanwhile, was quoted by an ESPN reporter as saying the Paris club are ready to step up against a Liverpool side who won 3-2 in their previous encounter at Anfield in September.

'We are not afraid of Liverpool,' Draxler said. 'We do not fear elimination. We know this is a mini-final and we will have to play better than the first leg. We have a great team for it.'

Paris Saint-Germain's talented keeper line up, including Gianluigi Buffon and Alphonse Areola

PSG's Thiago Silva will be hoping to keep the team's incredible run of form in the league going

Thomas Meunier donned some gloves for the chilly training at the Ooredoo Training Centre

====== 2469 ========

MAN CITY PLAYERS BOARD THEIR TRAIN TO LONDON AHEAD OF WEST HAM CLASH

Manchester City have started their journey to London ahead of returning to Premier League action against West Ham on Saturday.

The City squad decided to travel by train and arrived at the station on Friday afternoon to make the trip down to the capital.

Some of the City players were clearly affected by the afternoon chill and were seen wearing woolly hats as they waited for their train on the platform.

The Manchester City players arrive at the train station ahead of travelling to London

Raheem Sterling (L) and Fabian Delph (R)have a chat as they walk along the train platform

Pep Guardiola is seen letting out a yawn as he is his management staff wait for their train

Pep Guardiola gave an inkling to how he will be spending the two-and-a-half hour trip as he was pictured letting out a yawn as he walked along the platform.

The City players will spend the night at a hotel in the capital before travelling to the London Stadium in the morning.

Phil Foden was a part of the travelling party and may receive his big break this weekend with Guardiola confirming Bernardo Silva is out due to an injury.

The City boss said: 'He cannot play this weekend. The injury is not too big but I don't know if next Tuesday he will be available.'

Earlier in the day on Friday, Guardiola put the final touches on City's preparations for West Ham as he put his players through their paces at the Etihad campus.

Saturday's clash at the London Stadium will see the Spaniard come up against his predecessor as City manager at in Manuel Pellegrini.

The current West Ham boss won the title with City in 2014 before making way for Guardiola two years later.

Guardiola says he is an admirer of the veteran Chilean coach.

Riyad Mahrez (L) and Oleksandr Zinchenko (R) share a joke as they prepare to board the train

Phil Foden (left) and Vincent Kompany (right) were both part of City's travelling party

Sergio Aguero poses for the camera as they wait for their train to arrive at the platform

'His career speaks for itself in terms of quality. When you see the teams of Manuel Pellegrini, even if you are a blind guy, you recognise his style,' Guardiola said.

'He started incredible in Villarreal and put this team at another level. It was a small, small city and the way they played and the way they created their own style was impressive.

'After that he went to (Real) Madrid and made a very good league (campaign) with 96 points, but at Barcelona we did 99.

'Here he won the league and helped this club be where we are right now. He did well at Malaga as well and he is going to do well at West Ham.'

Mahrez controls the ball on his thigh during City's training session on Friday morning

Guardiola ran his players through their final preparations before Saturday's match

Kompany (M) Delph (L) and Kyle Walker (R) have a chat during Friday morning's session

====== 2470 ========

NEW FOOTAGE SHOWS GIANLUIGI BUFFON'S CLASSY GESTURE TO CRISTIANO RONALDO AFTER GOAL

It was one of the highlights of last season — and it has now emerged that it had an unlikely fan.

Cristiano Ronaldo's bicycle kick for Real Madrid against Juventus at the Allianz Stadium in the Champions League semi-final won UEFA's goal of the season award.

The reaction to the strike from the Juventus faithful had a part to play in the Portuguese player's summer move to Turin.

Cristiano Ronaldo scoring his spectacular overhead kick against Juventus last season

Great shot this. Buffon saluting Ronaldo, after the latter’s goal vs. Juventus last season. pic.twitter.com/iwZwuWx0WC — Mootaz Chehade (@MHChehade) November 14, 2018

They ended up giving him a standing ovation due to the impressive nature of the goal.

But it was not just those of a black and white persuasion in the stands who saluted the experienced forward.

Gianluigi Buffon was in goal when Ronaldo scored the brilliant goal and new footage has emerged of his reaction, which is unlikely for someone in his position.

The Italian goalkeeper, who now plays for Paris Saint-Germain, gave Ronaldo a thumbs up after the goal.

Gianluigi Buffon surprisingly reacted in a classy way, giving the forward a thumbs up

Ronaldo himself was a huge fan of the strike, and ranked it as the best of his career so far.

He told Real Madrid TV: 'This was spectacular, I jumped very high, so obviously it's a goal that stays in the memory and is surely my best goal.'

Ronaldo and Juventus take on SPAL in Serie A on Saturday in their first game after the international break.

====== 2471 ========

CRISTIANO RONALDO WEARS 'CAPPY' IN JUVENTUS TEAM REUNION

Team spirit in the Juventus dressing room appeared to be high on Thursday as the club's international stars returned to training.

Miralem Pjanic, who had been on duty for Bosnia and Herzegovina, took to Instagram to share of photo of himself posing with team-mates Cristiano Ronaldo, Paulo Dybala, Douglas Costa and Rodrigo Bentancur in the Juve changing room.

Ronaldo, who did not feature in Portugal's games against Italy and Poland, stood out in the snap as he wore a piece of novelty headgear — a replica of the character 'Cappy' from the Super Mario Odyssey video game.

Miralem Pjanic (left) puts his arm around Paulo Dybala as Cristiano Ronaldo wears a red cap

Pjanic was seen with his arm around Dybala, who scored in Argentina's 2-0 win over Mexico on Wednesday.

Dybala will be hoping to add to his tally of two Serie A goals this season when Juve host SPAL in Turin on Saturday.

Ronaldo is the club's leading scorer this term with eight league goals.

The Juve squad underwent a light training session on Thursday.

====== 2472 ========

N'GOLO KANTE SECURES FIVE-YEAR DEAL WITH CHELSEA WORTH £290,000 A WEEK

N’Golo Kante has committed his future to Chelsea by signing a new long-term contract.

Kante has agreed a deal which is thought to be worth up to £290,000 a week over the next five years.

Talks have been ongoing since the summer amid long-standing interest in the 27-year-old midfielder from Paris Saint-Germain.

Chelsea have tied N'Golo Kante down to a new five-year contract worth £290,000 a week

The French midfielder poses with his No 7 shirt after committing his future to the club

Kante signs his new deal with Chelsea director Marina Granovskaia (right) by his side

‘I’m happy to extend my time with Chelsea, it has been two beautiful years and I wish for more to come,' Kante said after signing new terms.

'Since I came, I completely improved as a player, challenged myself and got some awards I never thought about. I like the city, I like the club and I am happy to be here for more time.’

Chelsea beat PSG to sign Kante from newly-crowned champions Leicester for £32million in the summer of 2016.

In his first season at the club he helped bring the title to Stamford Bridge and was named FWA Footballer of the Year.

This year he was integral to the France team as they won the World Cup in Russia.

Kante has been continually linked with a move to French champions Paris Saint-Germain

It has been a phenomenal rise for a player who was signed by Leicester for £5.6m from Caen only three-and-a-half years ago.

This season, he has adjusted quickly to the tactical demands of a new role on the right side of a midfield trio in order to accommodate new £56m signing Jorginho.

Kante is one of seven players to start each of the opening 12 Premier League games under new boss Maurizio Sarri.

They are unbeaten in the league and lie in third, four points behind leaders Manchester City.

His current Chelsea contract which runs until 2021 was among those exposed this month via the Football Leaks.

According to French investigative news site Mediapart he was paid a net salary of £4.5m a year and refused to have a percentage paid as image rights into an offshore company in Jersey because he was concerned about paying the right amount of tax.

====== 2473 ========

BAMFORD EARNS A HUG FROM BIELSA AFTER OUTRAGEOUS VOLLEY IN TRAINING

Patrick Bamford may have been struggling with injury but the striker gave fans a taste of the quality he can offer in training ahead of his return to action.

The 25-year-old striker was expected to be out until the new year with a knee ligament problem but he doesn't appear to have lost his shooting boots.

In a video shared on Twitter this week, Bamford could be seen scoring a stunning left-foot volley that prompted cries of 'Oh my days' from someone watching at Thorp Arch.

Scroll down for video

Leeds forward Patrick Bamford scored a stunning left-foot volley during a training session

The 25-year-old sent the crossfield ball soaring over goalkeeper Will Huffer with his left foot

The brilliant goal prompted wild celebrations from Marcelo Bielsa, who ran over towards him

But it was the reaction of Leeds boss Marcelo Bielsa that caught the eye.

After Bamford sent the crossfield ball soaring over goalkeeper Will Huffer from the left side of the box, Bielsa sprinted from the halfway line towards the forward with his hands aloft.

The two embraced outside the penalty area before the Championship side continued the attacking drill.

Leeds take on Bristol City in a second-tier showdown at Elland Road on Saturday, with Bielsa's side looking to continue their fine start to the season.

Despite a recent blip, Leeds still sit third in the table, only three points off league leaders Norwich.

====== 2474 ========

MANCHESTER CITY TRAIN AHEAD OF WEST HAM CLASH AS PREMIER LEAGUE TITLE RACE HEATS UP

Gabriel Jesus, Leroy Sane and David Silva were in high spirits as Manchester City's star-studded squad returned to training after the international break.

Midfielder Oleksandr Zinchenko was keen to gee up his teammates by aiming a playful kick at one player during training on Thursday.

Stockport born Phil Foden shunned the leggings, hats and gloves worn by most his teammates as the teenager trained in shorts despite the cold snap.

Midfielder Oleksandr Zinchenko aims a playful kick at a team-mate during training

German forward Leroy Sane shares a joke with teammates during training on Thursday

City boss Pep Guardiola is under no illusion about the task facing his squad as he believes the Premier League is the toughest division in world football.

Speaking as the keynote speaker for Liverpool University's annual Edgar Allisson Peers Symposium on Wednesday evening. he said: 'For the amount of games, for the weather, the referees saying play, play, play.

'There are many contenders. No other country has that. It would be unfair to say that though.

Brazilian striker Gabriel Jesus was wrapped up against the elements on Thursday

Spanish playmaker David Silva shows off some nifty footwork during training

'There are many things in Germany and Spain that have better things than here. I am a better manager now than I was at Barcelona and Bayern Munich.

'It's the most unpredictable league I've been in. You watch Match of the Day. The people are crazy here compared to other countries and it's good.'

The whole squad is back..! And we're ready for West Ham! 💪 #mancity pic.twitter.com/3DbThBUh9o — Manchester City (@ManCity) November 22, 2018

====== 2475 ========

PATRICK VAN AANHOLT REVEALS HOW HE ALMOST QUIT FOOTBALL AFTER SIX LOANS IN FIVE YEARS AT CHELSEA

It's only when the conversation turns to a 'wasted' year at Wigan and Vitesse Arnhem that Patrick van Aanholt's natural self confidence fades for a moment.

'I was really thinking about quitting football,' recalls the Dutchman solemnly. 'I was that upset, I wanted to stop.

'I went on holiday with my missus at the time and said, "What am I going to do now? No club is going to want me because I haven't played for a year". I was very close.'

Patrick van Aanholt is enjoying his football after nearly two years at Crystal Palace

But the 28-year-old told Sportsmail he nearly quit in the midst of five loans away from Chelsea

PATRICK VAN AANHOLT'S CAREER Chelsea (2009-14) 8 appearances Coventry (2009-10, loan) 20 Newcastle (2010, loan) 7 Leicester (2011, loan) 12 Wigan (2011, loan) 4 Vitesse (2012-14, loan) 83 Sunderland (2014-17) 95 Crystal Palace (2017-present) 56

It came during a period of Van Aanholt's career when he was sent out on loan from Chelsea to five clubs over six years.

Now happily settled back in London with Crystal Palace, the 28-year-old left back is brimming with confidence again. There is no desire to leave Selhurst Park.

'From the moment I stepped inside the dressing room, it felt like home — a family bond,' says Van Aanholt who is approaching the second anniversary of a £14million move from Sunderland.

Equally, there is no disguising the ambition of a player who interested Juventus last summer.

Having only made three first-team starts over seven years on Chelsea's books, could he still play for a top European club?

'Why not?' he replies. 'We all want to make a step higher up. I think I've got it in me to play at that level. I played a few games at Chelsea and showed it. That's just having confidence in yourself.

'I've got two-and-a-half years left at Palace and would happily end my career here, but we all have ambitions. If you don't have ambitions then you're not a football player.'

He played just four times during a loan at Wigan and found himself asking 'what is the point?'

Van Aanholt never considered any other career. Cage football with his friends and a promising youth career with PSV Eindhoven took priority over his studies.

His father Johnny, who ran a delivery company in Den Bosch after moving to Holland with his wife Vanesa from Curacao in the Dutch Antilles, pushed the third of his four children to succeed.

'He thought it was a gift from God that I was going to become a footballer,' says Van Aanholt with a smile. 'I wanted to believe it and when I really believed it was when Chelsea signed me from Eindhoven in 2007. Then the dream became very big.'

Three years at Sunderland and nearly two at Selhurst Park have restored his love for the game

Initially a left-winger, the 16-year-old had been converted to a centre back by the time he arrived at Stamford Bridge and worked with youth-team coach Brendan Rodgers.

'I wanted to be a centre back but I was always stepping over the ball and playing one-twos,' admits Van Aanholt, a cousin of Swansea's Leroy Fer.

'Brendan converted me into a left back and said, "Now you can do what you want attacking-wise". I think it worked out well for me.'

Ashley Cole was Van Aanholt's role model and quickly became a mentor. They are still in touch.

'I saw Ashley train every day and I said, "This is what I want but better". That was my motivation. He taught me the game, how to play nicely and sometimes dirty, all those kind of things.

'But I didn't become Ashley Cole. I'm Patrick van Aanholt. People know me as an attacking full-back who scores goals.'

Van Aanholt always had his eyes set on professional football from a very young age

Then the loans began. First Coventry — 'a club I'd never heard of!' — where Clinton Morrison and Leon Best took him under their wing. At Newcastle, it was fellow Dutchman Tim Krul.

When Van Aanholt joined Roberto Martinez at Wigan in 2011, frustration set in over a lack of game time.

'One of the worst loans of my life,' he confirms with a shake of the head. 'It was partly the manager, but a little bit me.

'Obviously when you go on loan from Chelsea you expect to play. At the time my mentality was wrong, I'm not going to lie. I thought, "F*** it, I'm not going to train (properly)". I didn't want to play in the reserves. It was the wrong attitude.

'I could have trained for myself, so when I got the chance I was ready. I didn't do that. I was just training and going home. That was just a waste of time. That's why Wigan is a closed book.'

An equally difficult spell at Vitesse was transformed by the appointment of head coach Fred Rutten and Van Aanholt became a regular in the team.

He returned to Chelsea rejuvenated but happy to finally sever his ties with the club following a discussion with Jose Mourinho.

Despite struggling at Chelsea, he spent a lot of time learning from fellow left back Ashley Cole

'We had a nice conversation and I had a good feeling about that,' he recalls. 'But I think I made the right move to leave Chelsea behind. They kept sending me on loan to get more experience.

'How long does it take to become more experienced? In your head you're thinking, "I need stability to prove myself in the Premier League".'

Van Aanholt made a permanent move to Sunderland and played under four bosses — Gus Poyet, Dick Advocaat, Sam Allardyce and David Moyes — before rejoining Allardyce at Palace.

It was partly driven by a desire to be back in London. Van Aanholt's wife Linsey and their two sons, Jaden and Devon, now five and two years old respectively, had left Wearside and temporarily returned to Holland.

Van Aanholt has been putting that into practice over recent seasons and remains ambitious

He would be happy to stay at Palace but if a move to a top club comes along he wouldn't say no

The Dutchman helped Allardyce keep Palace up, just as he had done at Sunderland, and was an important player again for Roy Hodgson last season. Does he ever get tired of firefighting?

'The last two years, this team has shown that it's capable of really sticking together. It's about to change, you know. Everything happens in a split second.'

Palace are fifth from bottom after games against Arsenal, Chelsea and Tottenham. It doesn't get easier as they head to Manchester United tomorrow.

'We approach every game with the same mentality,' insists a player who scored against United and Chelsea last season.

'Why change it because we're going to Old Trafford? In the Premier League, everybody can beat everyone. We've proved it and we've not been turned over by anybody in the last three games.

'You need to believe in yourself. If you don't, it's going to be tough — especially in this league. If I'm not confident, I wouldn't be sat here saying the things I've said.'

====== 2476 ========

MESUT OZIL GIFTS PRINCE WILLIAM SIGNED ARSENAL SHIRT AT CHARITY EVENT

Mesut Ozil was 'honoured' after getting the chance to meet Prince William and hand him a signed Arsenal shirt at a 'Football for Peace' charity event on Thursday.

The pair were both present to show their support as the charity launched its #FootballSavesLives campaign at the Copper Box Arena in London.

Ozil took to Instagram to share his excitement after rubbing shoulders royalty, posting a photo of himself and The Duke of Cambridge holding up the signed Gunners shirt.

Mesut Ozil poses with Prince William after giving him a signed Arsenal shirt

William joined Ozil and Mathieu Flamini as they took part in some ball drills at the event

'Thank you for your time, HRH Prince William - Duke of Cambridge,' the playmaker wrote alongside the image.

'What an honour meeting you for the "football for peace" project and taking part in the youth leadership season with you.'

The project is aimed at training the next generation of young leaders in how to harness a shared passion for football to bring together their local communities.

The pair were all smiles during the graduation ceremony of 30 Young Peace Leaders

William looked to be fully immersing himself in the occasion as he was seen taking part in some ball drills after changing into a pair of Nike trainers. Former Arsenal star Mathieu Flamini also took part.

Speaking at the event, which also saw 30 Young Peace Leaders graduate from the UK's City for Peace programme, his Royal Highness said: 'Football is part of the fabric of this nation'.

It is unlikely the signed Arenal shirt will be taking pride of place at Kensington Palace, however, with William being a lifelong supporter of Aston Villa.

====== 2477 ========

LEWIS HAMILTON TO WEAR SPECIAL GOLD F1 HELMET FOR ABU DHABI GRAND PRIX

Lewis Hamilton will wear a special gold helmet for the final race of his title-winning Formula 1 season in Abu Dhabi.

Hamilton will lift the the trophy for the fifth time on Sunday afternoon and he will do so in style.

Fashion is one of the Englishman's passions outside of the sport and he is taking it to the track in the UAE heat.

Lewis Hamilton has shown off the gold helmet that he will wear in Abu-Dhabi this weekend

The 33 year old will left his fifth world title on Sunday afternoon and will do it in plenty of style

The gold helmet has all the usual sponsors on and says 'Ham' on the back, but the colouring is what adds a little bit more glitz and glamour to proceedings, as well as five stars to signal his title son the side.

Hamilton has plenty to celebrate at the end of another stunning season, which saw him equal Juan Michael Fangio's total of five F1 titles.

Michael Schumacher is now the only driver to have lifted the trophy more than Hamilton, who is just 33 and could well surpass the German legend in the future.

He is determined to improve for the 2019 season though, specifically the first half of the campaign, when it looked like Hamilton and Sebastian Vettel would be involved in a tight race for the championship.

He secured the championship last month and only Michael Schumacher has won more F1 titles

Hamilton has pulled away since the mid-season break and secured the title in Mexico, with two races still left, but he wants to get even better.

'I'm going to try and think how the first half of our season could have been stronger,' he told staff at Mercedes' headquarters last week.

'How do we make sure we start stronger, and then finish off as strong as we did?

'Please try and think how you can be better individually, and together with the guys you are working next to. Because that's what I'm trying to think of; how I can deliver more for you next year.

'So, when they bring more power, and more energy, we bring even more.'

====== 2478 ========

DC UNITED'S WAYNE ROONEY CELEBRATES AMERICAN HOLIDAY WITH HIS FAMILY AFTER A MEMORABLE WEEK

Wayne Rooney has been celebrating Thanksgiving in America with his family after a memorable week with England.

The England record goalscorer posted a photo on Instagram with his wife Coleen and four sons Kai, Klay, Kitt and Cass.

Rooney earned his 120th and final cap for his national side last week as England beat the USA 3-0 at Wembley.

Wayne Rooney posted a photo on Instagram of his family celebrating Thanksgiving in America

The DC United striker wrote on Instagram: 'Happy #Thanksgiving to all my American followers. Our first one in America! #Disneyland.'

The former Manchester United striker looked delighted to have some time off with his family and Minnie Mouse.

Rooney's MLS side finished fourth in the Eastern Conference and ninth overall with the former Everton striker finishing as the club's top scorer.

The Liverpool-born forward signed a three-and-a-half-year contract in July with DC United and appears to be enjoying time with his family.

====== 2479 ========

CHELSEA STEP UP PREPARATIONS FOR TOTTENHAM SHOWDOWN

Chelsea stepped up their preparations for Saturday's visit to Tottenham on Thursday with the full squad having returned from the international break.

Maurizio Sarri's men looked focused on the task at hand as the Italian put them through their paces on a chilly afternoon at the club's training ground in Cobham.

The likes of Eden Hazard and Alvaro Morata wrapped up warm in a session which saw the Blues ramp up the intensity after re-grouping on Wednesday.

Andreas Christensen (left) and Eden Hazard compete for the ball during training on Thursday

Maurizio Sarri issues instructions during the session at the club's Cobham training ground

French midfielder N'Golo Kante dribbles with the ball during a practice match

Midfielder Mateo Kovacic also took full part in the session despite being forced to miss Croatia's shwodown with England at Wembley on Sunday due to a 'small muscular problem'.

Sarri has no injury concerns to worry about as he bids to continue his side's unbeaten start to the season in his first meeting with London rivals Tottenham.

The club are the last last remaining unbeaten side in Europe's top five leagues but still lie four points adrift of Premier League leaders Liverpool.

The Blues stand one point above fourth-placed Spurs and will be confident going into the London derby having won six of their last seven in the top flight.

English midfielder Ross Barkley takes a shot as the Blues geared up for their clash with Spurs

====== 2480 ========

A $9MILLION SHOWDOWN ON AMERICA’S MOST EXPENSIVE GOLF COURSE: TIGER WOODS V PHIL MICKELSON EXPLAINED

'This is very different to anything golf has ever done in the past. We are able to showcase our sport in a different light,' Tiger Woods said at a press conference alongside Phil Mickelson at Shadow Creek on Tuesday.

Make no mistake, golf needs innovation. From scrutiny on slow play to clubs removing draconian bans on allowing female members, there are numerous facets golf needs to shed to entice a new generation of players.

But does it need Woods and Mickelson, two men in their 40s worth $2.5bn (£1.94bn) between them, to play for another $9million (£7m) for themselves?

Tiger Woods poses in front of a mountain of cash ahead of his showdown with Phil Mickelson at Shadow Creek, where the winner will pocket $9million for themselves

Mickelson strikes a pose in front of the cash on the eve of his $9m-match against Woods

One of these legends is walking away with $9M at #CapitalOnesTheMatch



What would you do with that money? pic.twitter.com/9flLiZPgUA — Bleacher Report (@BleacherReport) November 21, 2018

Apparently, golf does need that.

There is a charitable element but it is barely a footnote while pictures released on the eve of the match of both players posing in front of a mountain of cash were, to many, extremely distasteful.

During the game they will wear microphones so, as Mickleson said, viewers can 'hear banter' between them.

'We're hopeful this provides an insight into the sport, a glimpse into the future where people want more,' Mickelson added. 'If that happens, great. If people don't like it, it's probably a one-and-done but... I think it is going to be well received.'

Sportsmail runs through the rules of Friday's match and how it came to happen in the first place.

WHOSE IDEA WAS IT?

Hollywood producer Bryan Zuriff - a golf fan - first discussed the idea with Jack Whigham, head of CAA (California Artists Agency).

'Basically, we started thinking, 'wouldn't it be cool if there were a golf match played the way a lot of us play with our buddies?' You know, where you bet on everything and talk smack and basically have this continually running dialogue of, pardon the expression, giving each other s***,' Whigham told Golf Digest.

'One of the fun things about working in Hollywood is the amount of times we say to ourselves 'why can't we do something like this?"'

They got Mickelson involved first, in March, when he had sealed his first victory since 2013 at the WGC-Mexico Championship and the idea was shared with the Woods camp - Woods was very much on the comeback trail after being besieged by back problems.

Jack Whigham (left) and Bryan Zuriff have played major roles in making 'The Match' happen

Woods and Mickelson pictured during their practice round at The Masters in April

There was a sense of resurgence around two men with 19 major titles between them, especially when a practice round at Augusta ahead of the Masters was followed by a huge crowd of fans.

In May, Mickelson seemingly playfully suggested the idea at The Players Championship after they were paired in a group together but negotiations were already underway.

'The excitement that's been going on around here, it gets me thinking: Why don't we just bypass all the ancillary stuff of a tournament and just go head-to-head and just have kind of a high-stake, winner-take-all match,' Mickelson said.

'Now, I don't know if he wants a piece of me, but I just think it would be something that would be really fun for us to do, and I think there would be a lot of interest in it if we just went straight to the final round.'

WHERE IS IT HELD?

Shadow Creek, north of Las Vegas in Nevada. It costs $500 (£388) to play a round of 18, second only to Pebble Beach in cost at $595 (£462).

Players are not only required to arrive in a limo but they must also stay at the nearby MGM Hotel.

A round of golf at Shadow Creek costs £388 and players are required to arrive in a limo

The players will wear microphones so viewers can hear them chat between shots

WHAT ARE THE RULES?

Woods and Mickelson will follow matchplay rules so technically, the encounter could be won before the full 18 is played.

HOW MUCH MONEY IS AT STAKE?

The £7m prizefund has been flaunted mercilessly by organisers. To put that figure into a golfing context, Francesco Molinari's prize money for winning The Open - the most prestigious title in the game - was 1.6m euros (£1.4m).

World No 1 Justin Rose won approximately £9.3m for the whole 2018 season.

The most jarring part of the setup for many has been the lack of clarity over how much money will go to charity. Both Woods and Mickelson will, apparently, lay bets down with each other during the match with the loser donating to the other's chosen charity.

But the prize money itself, provided by sponsors such as Capital One and Audi, will go in either Woods' or Mickelson's pocket.

Woods won around £4.2m for the 2018 season on the PGA tour, Mickelson £3.5m

The prizefund of £7m dwarfs the £1.6m Francesco Molinari took for winning The Open

THERE IS A STRONG GAMBLING ELEMENT INVOLVED

Perhaps the charitable element is minimal here because organisers have set this up for a completely different purpose.

Slowly, gambling laws are being relaxed across the United States and golf is moving to intertwine itself with betting. When the match is broadcast on Friday, viewers will be able to bet on outcomes themselves.

Adding a new dimension for viewers in how to watch golf unquestionably broadens its appeal but it comes at a time where, in Britain, football's relationship with gambling is coming under growing scrutiny.

Mickelson and Woods are hopeful the event will usher in similar competitions in the future

Furthermore, on Wednesday, the Gambling Comission in the UK said the number of children classed as having a gambling problem has quadrupled to 50,000. If golf wants to responsibly attract a younger audience, there are more productive avenues.

The shift in gambling laws in the US comes after years of campaigning from the state of New Jersey to allow betting on sport at its race tracks and casinos.

The supreme court overturned the 1992 ruling in May, meaning the estimated $150bn market can be tapped into by individual states that wish to authorise gambling on sporting outcomes.

Mickelson laid down a $200,000 bet with Woods to make birdie on the first hole.

HAS THIS EVER BEEN DONE BEFORE?

No, but something similar nearly did in 2016. Rory McIlroy and his close friend Rickie Fowler announced they would play a one-off round with 'a celebrity element' in Detroit, a week before the US Open.

Specific details of the match never emerged and it was scrapped after organisers failed to attract sponsorship.

There have, of course, been similar cash-grabs in other sports. The boxing match between Conor McGregor and Floyd Mayweather is an obvious example, as is the ill-fated Twenty20 tournament in the Caribbean organised by the now-jailed businessman Allen Stanford.

Rory McIlroy nearly did something similar in 2016 alongside Rickie Fowler

WHAT HAVE OTHER GOLFERS SAID?

For someone who nearly participated in a similar venture, McIlroy didn't sound impressed when asked for his thoughts.

'Look, if they had done it 15 years ago it would have been great,' he said prior to the World Tour Championship in Dubai last week. 'But nowadays, it's missed the mark a little bit.'

But perhaps the most incisive comments, however, came from Paul McGinley, a man who often calls it how it is when asked for this thoughts on golf.

Paul McGinley said the money involved is detracting from an innovative event

'With social media the landscape has changed in terms of interacting with younger people, so in principle I don't think it's a bad thing,' McGinley was quoted as saying by The Times.

'But the highlighting of the $9m in the publicity has brought an unnecessary narrative. That's where it loses me. You're talking about two of the wealthiest people anywhere in the world, playing for $9m and making a big song and dance about it.

'The money is not adding to what they are doing. Mostly, it is taking away.'

HOW CAN YOU WATCH?

No UK-based broadcasters have taken up the rights to show it but Bleacher Report will stream the event live in the United State and Canada. Turner International is broadcasting globally while in the United States, it costs $20 in pay-per-view.

It starts at 8pm UK time on Friday but there are no tickets for fans to attend in person. The only people there will be the golfers, television crew, sponsors, staff and VIPs.

====== 2481 ========

DANIEL STURRIDGE EMBRACED BY TEAM-MATES AS LIVERPOOL PREPARE FOR WATFORD

It was all smiles at Melwood on Thursday afternoon as Liverpool fine-tuned their preparations for the return to Premier League action this weekend.

Jurgen Klopp's unbeaten side travel to Watford on Saturday looking to keep up the pressure on Manchester City, who hold a two-point lead at the top of the table.

Daniel Sturridge was fully involved, and shared a warm embrace with Georginio Wijnaldum, Dejan Lovren and Mohamed Salah during the training session.

Daniel Sturridge embraces team-mate Georginio Wijnaldum during training at Melwood

The Liverpool players looked in good spirits as they prepared for their return to action

Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp puts his foot through the ball during Thursday's session

The England striker is likely to be on the bench again as The Reds aim for a 10th win of the season at Vicarage Road.

It comes amid Sturridge's request for an extension to submit his answer to a charge that involves him breaching the Football Association's rules on betting.

Sturridge had been the subject of an FA investigation for several months and was initially given until 6pm on Tuesday to respond after being hit with the charge last Monday.

His request is now being considered by the Chairman of a judicial panel and the likelihood is that it will be granted.

Dejan Lovren and Mohamed Salah share a joke with Sturridge ahead of the Watford clash

Sadio Mane shows off his toothy grin ahead of the return of the Premier League

Brazilian goalkeeper Alisson shows off his reflexes by stretching to save a shot on goal

The FA have the power to request a player who is under investigation for these kind of offences to be handed an interim suspension on grounds that he could be a threat to the game's integrity.

But on this occasion that will not be the case and Sturridge will be available for selection when Liverpool return to action against Watford on Saturday.

The 29-year-old has scored four goals so far this season but has not found the back of the net since the late equaliser at Chelsea at the end of September.

====== 2482 ========

TOTTENHAM STARS SHARE LAUGH AT DELE'S ALLI'S EXPENSE DURING TRAINING

Tottenham trained on Thursday afternoon ahead of their game against fierce rivals Chelsea at the weekend.

Mauricio Pochettino's side are suffering from something of an injury crisis but seemed to be in high spirits while they took part in the session at their Enfield training base.

Harry Winks, Lucas Moura and Eric Dier seemed to be having a joke at Dele Alli's expense as he sat on the ground during the session.

Harry Winks, Lucas Moura and Eric Dier poke fun at Dele Alli as he sits on the ground

Dier appears in good spirits as the Tottenham stars enjoy their training session on Thursday

Tottenham were delighted to be able to welcome Jan Vertonghen back to full training

Heung-min Son seemed delighted to be able to welcome the defender back to training

The likes of Harry Kane, Hugo Lloris and Ben Davies were also all involved as Spurs continue to build up to a huge top of the table clash at Wembley.

Heung-min Son also seemed to be delighted to be able to welcome Jan Vertonghen to training after a spell on the sidelines.

Vertonghen is back to full fitness and ready to play on Saturday against Chelsea.

Vertonghen has missed the last nine Spurs games with a hamstring injury suffered at Huddersfield.

Harry Kane was also involved after his exploits for England over the international break

The Tottenham players take part in a passing drill as they prepare for the Chelsea game

Hugo Lloris has a grin on his face and a woolly hat on his head during the training session

His timely return is a boost for Pochettino who has lost Davinson Sanchez to a hamstring problem.

Vertonghen is expected to be reunited with Toby Alderweireld in the centre of defence.

'It's important to have all the players fit,' said Pochettino. 'Jan is an important player for us. It's very good news he is involved against. He has been training well for the last two weeks. Davinson is recovering.

'We need to wait to decide if he will be involved on Saturday. We have a very busy period ahead and it's so important to recover the players.'

Lloris heads the ball away during the session as he looks forward to the Chelsea game

====== 2483 ========

AUSTRALIA NO 8 DAVID POCOCK DECLARED FIT TO START AGAINST ENGLAND

Wallaby No 8 David Pocock has been declared fit to start against England at Twickenham on Saturday.

The breakdown specialist has only played a bit-part role in training this week but Eddie Jones claimed his fitness concerns were a bluff.

Pocock was England's nemesis at the 2015 World Cup and he will combine with fellow poacher Michael Hooper.

David Pocock has been declared fit to start for Australia against England on Saturday

Pocock, pictured in training on Thursday, hasn't had a full week of training with his team-mates

The No 8, a breakdown specialist, was England's nemesis at the 2015 Rugby World Cup

England team to play Australia on Saturday Daly; Cokanasiga, Slade, Te'o, May; Farrell, Youngs; Moon, George, Sinckler; Itoje, Lawes; Shields, Wilson, Underhill. Replacements: Hartley, Hepburn, Williams, Ewels, Hughes, Wigglesworth, Ford, Tuilagi.

Jones said: 'We're not even thinking about it. I hear this every time we play Australia - Pocock's not going to be fit - so when I heard it I thought: "Here we go again." You know those merry-go-rounds? It's a bit like that.'

Scrum-half Will Genia will win his 100th cap in the autumn series finale, but former Wasps dynamo Kurtley Beale has been left out of the squad altogether.

Michael Cheika has made five changes to his side that beat Italy, with Matt Toomua and Bernard Foley combining as the dual playmakers ahead of Beale.

Sekope Kepu, Michael Hooper and Jack Maddocks of Australia pose alongside a giant shirt

Pocock will combine with fellow poacher Michael Hooper (pictured) in the Twickenham clash

Full-back Israel Folau returns, with Jack Maddocks, Samu Kerevi and Dane Haylett-Petty completing the backline.

Australia have lost their last five Tests to England and they will look to their dynamic pack to stem the Red Rose gameplan.

Jack Dempsey will join Hooper and Pocock in the back-row, with 102-cap prop Sekope Kepu brining experience to the tight five.

Scott Sio and Tolu Latu complete the front-row, while Adam Coleman and Jack Dempsey start at second-row.

====== 2484 ========

BENJAMIN MENDY RETURNS TO MANCHESTER AFTER KNEE OPERATION IN BARCELONA

Manchester City defender Benjamin Mendy has returned to England following knee surgery in Barcelona.

The France international was pictured at Manchester airport on Thursday afternoon having headed to Spain for an operation on his left knee over a week ago.

The issue was sustained during City's 3-1 win over fierce rivals Manchester United; he played the full 90 minutes but withdrew from the France squad the following day.

Manchester City defender Benjamin Mendy is back in England after knee surgery in Barcelona

It is not known exactly how long the left-back will be absent for after the operation

The 24-year-old full-back was sent to be assessed by City's surgeon Dr Ramon Cugat in Barcelona and underwent surgery on the cartilage meniscus in his left knee.

The problem is not connected to the ruptured anterior cruciate ligament in Mendy's right knee that he suffered in September last year, restricting him to just eight appearances in his first season at City after a £52million move from Monaco.

The latest injury is understood to be less serious, although it's unclear how long the Frenchman will be out for this time.

Mendy has started 10 of City's 12 Premier League games this season as the champions have stayed unbeaten at the top of the table.

City left back Mendy died his hair grey during the international break

City posed a Twitter video in which a grey-haired Mendy was seen with a bandaged right knee

Sergio Aguero debuted his grey hair earlier this month when he scored in a 3-1 win over United

Earlier on Thursday, Mendy was seen sporting silver hair, similar to that of City team-mate Sergio Aguero.

City's official Twitter account uploaded a video of Mendy stretching his legs, one of which was bandaged, but the main focus of the post was the Frenchman's head.

The video was captioned with the message: '.@benmendy23 rocking that @aguerosergiokun look!'

====== 2485 ========

INSIDE LIONEL MESSI'S 'RIDICULOUSLY NORMAL LIFE' - FROM PICKING UP KIDS WITH SUAREZ TO FAMILY BBQS

Barcelona want to keep Lionel Messi at the club until he is 36 years old and are relying on his contentment off the field as being just as important a factor in him signing a new contract as his happiness on it.

Barcelona paper Mundo Deportivo have reported that Messi, 31, has a clause in his contract allowing him to leave on a free in 2020 provided he does not go to another big European club.

China, Japan and Qatar will be lining up to take advantage of that get-out. And Barcelona are wary of him following Xavi to Doha to play for Al-Sadd or Andres Iniesta, who moved to Japan last summer to sign for Vissel Kobe in the J1 League.

Lionel Messi remains king of Barcelona, adored by 100,000 fans at the Nou Camp every game and millions more worldwide

But off pitch his life is simple, revolving around his family - wife Antonella, sons Thiago, Mateo and Ciro, and their dog, Hulk

There is also the example of Ezequiel Lavezzi, who is at Hebei China Fortune or Zlatan Ibrahimovic at LA Galaxy. Messi has a theme park due to open in China in 2020 so that might fit with a move there. And the US could be preferable for his young family.

There is certainly no shortage of lucrative offers so what makes Barca believe he will not walk away in two years time? The answers lies in how happy he is living in Catalonia, his home since he was 13.

Messi is no longer the awkward, timid teenager who first showed his face at the club's La Masia youth academy. Neither is he the 20-something, slightly gullible, butt of dressing-room-prankster Gerard Pique's jokes. The defender used to replace the battery in Messi's phone and then watch him wander around the dressing room asking if anyone had a charger because his phone was out of juice despite him charging it that morning.

He is now the boss, the leader. But he remains hugely private and, as Pique once described him, 'ridiculously normal'. He prefers to spend his time at home with his three sons Thiago, Mateo and Ciro, his wife Antonella and the family super-sized French mastiff dog, Hulk, in the small beach town of Bellamar just down the coast from Barcelona.

It's there that Messi can live a normal life. He can even stroll to the local school to pick up his sons, often in the company of Luis Suarez, who lives on the same complex and has children of a similar age.

The Bellamar neighbourhood - a beach town south of Barcelona, with four miles of sand and set back in the hills overlooking the Mediterranean - has long been the go-to gated community for top local sportspeople.

Neymar, Javier Mascherano and basketball star Pau Gasol have all had property here. Philippe Coutinho moved in last year when he joined the club from Liverpool. Messi is a good neighbour with 'great security, which helps us all', as Suarez joked last year.

In the comfort of his own home he can enjoy a kickabout with his sons on the floodlit miniature football pitch in the back garden, relax by the pool, gaze out across the ocean and even indulge in the occasional barbecue, although not too frequently if he wants to extend his career.

Messi reads with Thiago (left) and the pair breakfast with Mateo during glimpses inside the family home in Barcelona

The family pose outside their beautiful home in the luxury gated community at Bellamar, on the coast south of the city

Messi plays with Hulk on the small-sided football pitch within his back garden, which includes goals and dugouts,

The location of Messi's new home town of Bellamar, which is on the coast just south of the city of Barcelona

Messi's connection with Argentina will always be there but while brothers Rodrigo and Matias, younger sister Maria-Sol and parents Celia and Jorge spend much time in Rosario - especially his mother and sister - Messi is ever more rooted in his adopted homeland.

There are still annual flights to Buenos Aires followed by the 200-mile drive from the capital to Rosario but family is as likely to come to him now as him to them.

Former Argentina captain Juan Sebastian Veron once said that Messi would stay in his room at the South Africa World Cup in 2010 whenever Argentina's hotel was full of visiting relatives. Now he is a family man who is more likely to be the centre of the gatherings.

The fact that Messi's roots in Barcelona go ever deeper as time passes have made clubs more willing to admit that they have, at one time or another, tried and failed to sign him.

Manchester City's president Khaldoon al Mubarak said as much recently. When asked if there was one player he had tried and failed to sign he said to much applause: 'Messi'.

And just as moving elsewhere in Europe has never appealed to Messi, so going back to South America seems to be an idea that he has almost completely ruled out for the time being.

When Diego Maradona spoke out against him recently it was an indication of one of the reasons why that is the case. Maradona was reflecting a negative portrayal of Messi that persists in Argentina.

After growing up in Argentina it is no surprise that he is a fan of barbeques, but has had to cut down for health reasons

Antonella shared a picture of Messi enjoying a nap on their enormous sofa, piled high with plush cushions

He sips a cup of mate tea in his back garden, another view of which can be seen in this picture of Thiago and Mateo (right)

Speaking on the television channel Fox, Maradona said: 'It doesn't work to make a leader out of someone who goes to the toilet 20 times before a game. We should not make a god of him any more - he is just another player.'

Maradona swings from defending Messi to criticising him. This latest slight reflects an idea widely held by some Argentine football fans that Messi has lacked character when playing for the national team. It's that lack of universal acclaim in his homeland that would make him not want to return after he finishes playing.

LIONEL MESSI'S LIFE OFF THE PITCH Age: 31 Born: Rosario, Argentina Lives: Bellamar, Barcelona, Spain Married to: Antonella Roccuzzo Children: Thiago (6), Mateo (3), Ciro (8 months) Pets: Hulk the dog Other close family: Jorge (father), Celia (mother), Rodrigo, Matias (brothers), Maria Sol (sister)

It speaks volumes for the way Messi has gone beyond the boundaries of football that Cirque du Soleil are making a show based on his life. They have done the same in the past for other cultural icons such as The Beatles, Elvis and Michael Jackson.

He recently told Tot Costa radio programme in Catalonia that he did not know what he would do when he retires but that 'when the time comes when I stop playing, I am sure I will know what to fill my time doing.' It may be that he just chooses to spend more time at his favourite holiday haunt, Ibiza. He can hire an 80 ft cruiser (relatively modest in size - Roman Abramovich's yacht is 530 ft) and sail to the Balearic Islands in not much longer than seven hours.

He can even share the £6,500 it costs to hire the boat per day with Suarez and Cesc Fabregas who, with his young family, also joins the Messi clan during the summer holidays.

Fabregas has known Messi since they were both kids at La Masia. The Chelsea midfielder has admitted to deliberately bending down to tie his own bootlaces so as not to be paired with Messi in training after being bamboozled by him on a one-against-one dribbling drill the first day they were coached together.

The Messi family count as close friends Cesc Fabregas, a childhood friend at Barcelona, and his wife, Daniella

The Messis are also very close to his current Barcelona team-mate Luis Suarez, and their families often holiday together

Messi with his mother, Celia, and sister, Maria Sol - both are frequent visitors from their home city of Rosario in Argentina

There are still moments when the spotlight and the public attention are unavoidable for Messi, even on those relatively remote summer breaks.

Just last July there were phone videos of Messi being swamped by fans on what he might have thought to be a desolate beach on the small island of Formentera just off the coast of Ibiza. He had to paddle out back to his boat as they snapped him from the shoreline.

But he still feels more at home close to Barcelona and the club will be counting on that sentiment being the overriding one for him when they sit him down in talks planned for next year to discuss that final contract, the one that will make him a Barcelona player until he is 36 years old, and a 23-year one-club man.

====== 2486 ========

JEFF ASTLE'S DAUGHTER VENTS FURY AT PFA AND FIRES BACK AT DARREN MOORE

The daughter of Jeff Astle has expressed her extreme hurt after West Bromwich Albion boss Darren Moore suggested she should now stay quiet while a review of the PFA is conducted.

Dawn Astle said she would not be stopped from criticising PFA chief executive Gordon Taylor over the lack of funding for dementia research.

A coroner found Jeff Astle died at the age of 59 from 'industrial disease' caused by heading footballs.

Dawn Astle is hurt Darren Moore suggested she should stay quiet amid a review of the PFA

A coroner found Jeff Astle died from 'industrial disease' caused by heading footballs

Moore provoked acute upset among the Astle family, who still hold Hawthorns season-tickets, by awkwardly wading into the debate on PFA restructuring.

'I totally understand where Dawn is at because she's lost her father,' Moore said. 'But what I will say to Dawn is that there is a review going on and I think Dawn and the family members will wait and let that happen before passing further comment on the situation.

'There's been a lot of talk, so let's see what the review finds. If there are any shortfalls with the PFA, then we can all pass comment on it.

'It's the right thing to do and we should allow for that to happen and see what the outcome is. Let's not take away the good they have done.'

Astle said she would not be silenced in criticising the PFA over funding for dementia research

But Dawn responded with fury. 'My family and I are bitterly disappointed and extremely hurt by Darren's comments,' she told Sportsmail.

'He was quite simply the last person in the world we expected these comments to come from; the manager of not only the club we support, but the club my dad played for, died for, and loved, too.

'I will make no apology for doing whatever I can, whenever I can, however I can to shame Gordon Taylor and the PFA regarding their lies and lack of action for 13 years on dementia research. Players are dying in their own union. They have completely neglected them.

'Darren Moore has no right to tell me and the rest of my family to basically keep quiet now, or "hold fire on negative comments" just because there is going to be a review.

'A review of the PFA, whatever the outcome, does not and will not change what has happened. By dying, my dad's brain is speaking for the living and I will always, always speak for him.'

She said West Brom boss Moore 'has no right to tell me and the rest of my family to keep quiet'

Astle's family have campaigned tirelessly for research to be done into the links between football and dementia but the PFA, under Taylor, commit just £100,000 to the issue, despite having £50million in reserves.

Moore, who is West Brom's public face, has invited the Astle family to the clubs's training ground next week in an effort to explain his words. Astle's widow Laraine will go, although she is described as 'inconsolable' at present.

'I had to tell her in case anybody rang her to ask about what had been said,' Dawn explained. 'She isn't on the internet. It was better coming from me than anybody else. She is in bits.'

Moore has a long association with the PFA, ending a 20-year role in the organisation when stepping down from the management committee in 2013. He became a member of the equalities team in 2014.

'I know the PFA have done great work. I know they have,' Dawn added. 'But when it comes to dementia research, they haven't. It is as simple as that.

'For something that is killing their former members, that is unforgivable, not just for my dad's generation but for players now and what could be the ticking time bomb in the future.

'I do feel for the club, they have supported us. They put on Astle Day, they allow us to take our banner in every week, they put dad's picture up on the electronic scoreboard on nine minutes.

'But if I didn't make a comment on this, people would be wondering why. I won't have it, I don't care who it is. We have had years of this.'

====== 2487 ========

DZEKO INSISTS HE DOESN'T MIND THAT FANS DON'T REMEMBER HIS GOAL AGAINST QPR

Edin Dzeko has insisted he doesn't mind that fans don't remember the part he played in Manchester City's title-clinching win over QPR.

City were ahead in the first half but were 2-1 down after 66 minutes at the Etihad Stadium and they had to equal Manchester United's result.

The 32-year-old striker scored a stoppage-time equaliser against the west London club before Sergio Aguero scored the winner to seal the title for City in 2012.

Edin Dzeko insists he doesn't mind that fans don't remember his goal against QPR for Man City

'People always remember the Aguero goal,' Dzeko told Reddit readers as he took part in an Ask Me Anything chat on Thursday.

'But that is fine, because without my goal that goal would not have been possible... and with both of them we won the league. So I am fine with that!'

The Roma striker, who has notched seven goals in 15 appearances in all competitions this campaign, also revealed his favourite out of the 248 goals he has scored.

Sergio Aguero scored the winner after Dzeko's equaliser to seal the title for City in 2012

'I think that one against Chelsea (for Roma in 2017) was probably the most beautiful... but my favourite was my first goal for the national team, on my debut against Turkey,' he said.

'It was a good goal, a half-volley into the top corner... just to play for my country (Bosnia and Herzegovina) was a dream come true, but to score a goal as well was incredible.'

Dzeko has played for six clubs during his career and conceded being given Andriy Shevchenko's shirt at the end of a game against AC Milan was the best one he has received.

'When I was playing for Wolfsburg. He was my idol when I was a kid,' he said.

====== 2488 ========

LUCAS TORREIRA POSES WITH GIRLFRIEND VITTORIA REPETTO IN PARIS

Lucas Torreira looks to have made the most of Uruguay's friendly against France by visiting the Eiffel Tower in Paris.

The Arsenal midfielder shared a picture on his Instagram with girlfriend Vittoria Repetto on Thursday, two days after Uruguay lost 1-0 to France.

Torreira played 74 minutes in the game, which France won thanks to a 52nd minute goal from Chelsea striker Olivier Giroud.

Arsenal man Lucas Torreira visited the Eiffel Tower in Paris with his girlfriend

Torreira played 74 minutes of Uruguay's 1-0 defeat by France on Tuesday evening

The 22-year-old will soon turn his focus back to club football. Arsenal are away to Bournemouth on Sunday looking to return to winning ways having drawn their last three Premier League matches.

Torreira, who joined Arsenal in the summer from Sampdoria, has been praised for his attitude by coach Steve Bould.

'He trains everyday as if he loves it and he’s never a problem,' Bould told The Mirror. 'He just looks a top player.

Torreira's attitude to training has been praised by Arsenal coach Steve Bould

Torreira and Arsenal are away to Bournemouth on Sunday in the Premier League

'He’s just one of those players that will do everything you ask, won’t question it and you know that he’ll do it to the best of his ability.

'Torreira looks like he’s always played here. He’s just a great kid and nothing bothers him, he’s always got a smile on his face every day.'

Arsenal are fifth in the Premier League with 24 points from 12 games, three behind fourth-place Tottenham.

====== 2489 ========

DANIEL RICCIARDO POSES WITH RAPPER POST MALONE AS HE PREPARES FOR FINAL RACE WITH RED BULL

It is perhaps fitting of Daniel Ricciardo's character that he is going out with a smile at Red Bull despite suffering a horror second half of the Formula One season.

The Australian will race for the team he joined in 2014 for the final time this weekend before moving to Renault for 2019.

Ricciardo was pictured in the build up to the season ending finale at the Yas Marina circuit entertaining Post Malone in the Red Bull garage, as he showed the American rapper around the team garage.

Daniel Ricciardo poses with American rap artist Post Malone outside the Red Bull garage

Ricciardo is preparing for his last race at Red Bull alongside team-mate Max Verstappen

Red Bull have already had a busy morning in front of the cameras, with the team enjoying an end of season team photo featuring all the staff as well as drivers Ricciardo and Max Verstappen.

Much of the attention was on Ricciardo, with the team also posing for pictures that feature the driver being carried by his colleagues ahead of his farewell.

The 29-year-old has previously admitted the moment he knew he had to leave for Renault.

Riccardo said in the Players Tribune that he made the decision to leave Red Bull during a 'moment of clarity' on a flight to Los Angeles.

Despite a tough season, Ricciardo is set to leave Red Bull with a smile on his face

The Australian jokes around with his team ahead of the final race of the season

He had been left disillusioned this year by the lack of reliability of the Red Bull car, with promising positions in races suddenly ending with an array of engine and technical failures.

'At times, this season has been incredibly difficult. I've talked about rolling with the punches… but man, even I get sore after a while,' Ricciardo wrote.

The move to Renault is regarded by many as a step backward, as the team looks no closer to troubling Red Bull or Ferrari in leading a title challenge to Mercedes.

Ricciardo made the surprise choice to leave Red Bull to join Renault for the 2019 season

RICCIARDO AT RED BULL STATS 2014: 3rd (238 points - 3 wins) 2015: 8th (92 points - 0 wins) 2016: 3rd (256 points) - 1 win) 2017: 5th (200 points - 1 win) 2018: 6th (158 points - 1 win)* * Season still ongoing

Renault will need to take a major step forward if it is to provide the Australian driver with race-winning opportunities like those he had at Red Bull, a team Ricciardo admitted he found tough to leave.

'They gave me my break… I've done so much with Red Bull.… I've become who I've always wanted to be, right by their side… But I needed to listen to my heart, I needed to go it alone and make my own decision.

'When I get out for the final time in Abu Dhabi ... I think I'm going to have a right good cry.'

====== 2490 ========

LEBRON JAMES HELPS LA LAKERS TO VICTORY WITH 32 POINTS OVER HIS FORMER TEAM CLEVELAND CAVALIERS

Once the video tribute ended, a simple sentiment filled the giant scoreboard. Against a black backdrop, giant white letters delivered the heartfelt message.

Cleveland wanted to say something.

'THANK YOU, LeBRON,' it said.

LeBron James made an emotional return to his old team Cleveland Cavaliers on Wednesday

Cavaliers supporters paid tribute to their former hero on his first return since moving to LA

The scoreboard paid homage to James ahead of the game at the Quicken Loans Arena

Players and fans alike were overwhelmed by the return of the forward in Cleveland

It was a night to remember for James, who dominated at the place he used to call home

JAMES' CAREER 2003–2010 Cleveland Cavaliers 2010–2014 Miami Heat 2014–2018 Cleveland Cavaliers 2018–present Los Angeles Lakers

Eight years after he was treated like a thug, LeBron James was welcomed back properly.

Back on the court where he performed for 11 seasons, and under the title banner he helped raise, James returned to Cleveland and rallied the Los Angeles Lakers to a 109-105 win on Wednesday night over the Cavaliers, who played their best game of the season against their former team-mate but couldn't stop him when it mattered most.

James finished with 32 points, 14 rebounds and seven assists. He also scored or assisted on 11 straight points as the Lakers overcame a 99-91 deficit in the fourth quarter.

But basketball took a backseat to James' homecoming, which was so different than his return in 2010, when betrayed Cleveland fans unleashed their fury on him.

There were no profane chants this time. No derogatory signs. No venom.

Only love, and James felt it.

He put his former side to the sword - scoring 32 points on his return to Quicken Loans Arena

James ran riot and ran former team-mates around the court in a typically commanding display

HOME COOKING Following the game, the Lakers feasted on hamburgers, french fries and shakes from Swenson's, an Akron drive-in restaurant favoured by James. Sitting at his locker, James sipped on a banana shake and smiled. 'I'm good,' he said. 'I got my hometown food.'

'From the time we landed yesterday, it just felt a different way,' he said. 'I'm a different person. We're all different from eight years ago, both good and bad. But more importantly, this experience has been great. So it's all about growth and we all have grown from that moment eight years ago. So I kind of leave the past in the past and always focus on the present and see what happens in the future.'

The Cavs, who came in a league-worst 2-13, gave James and the Lakers all they could handle. And even after giving up an eight-point lead, they had a chance to tie late, but Kyle Korver missed a wide-open 3-pointer with 17 seconds left and Kentavious Caldwell-Pope made four free throws in the final 15 to seal it for Los Angeles.

Jordan Clarkson had 20 points and Tristan Thompson 14 and 15 rebounds for Cleveland.

From the moment he stepped back onto Quicken Loans Arena floor, James was treated like a returning champion.

On the night before Thanksgiving, Cleveland said thanks to the Northeast Ohio son, the one who ended the city's 52-year championship drought.

Supporters paid their own tributes to James by holding up signs while sitting courtside

'A hero has come back,' Cavs coach Larry Drew (right) said before tip-off

TIP-INS Lakers: Coach Luke Walton is impressed with James' knack for blocking out external distractions. 'The great ones have that ability,' he said. 'When they're on the basketball court nothing else matters, other than what they're trying to do. Their focus level seems to somehow get higher with the louder the noise gets. I don't know how. I don't know why.' Cavaliers: Did not commit a turnover in the first half. Starting G George Hill missed his sixth straight game with a sprained right shoulder sustained on Nov. 4. Hill has ramped up his on-court workouts in recent days and could be back soon. Drew said he was unaware of Smith's comments accusing the Cavs of 'tanking.' Drew believes his team is playing hard, and promised to nothing but coach his team to win. 'To coach to lose, I don't understand that, I don't know how to do that,' he said. 'I don't know how anybody can do that. That's something I would never, ever do.'

'A hero has come back,' Cavs coach Larry Drew said before tip-off.

James was the last Lakers player introduced before the game, presented with a line familiar to all Cavs fans: 'A 6-foot-8 forward from St. Vincent-St. Mary High School,' said arena announcer Sean Peebles. 'Welcome home! LeBron James.'

The crowd roared and stood as James walked out and huddled with his new teammates, who must have wondered what was in store for them.

But unlike that ugly night of December 2, 2010, when James returned with the Miami Heat and was subjected to a toxic, charged atmosphere of hatred unlike anything seen before or since, this was a night for celebration - and maybe more closure.

James has moved on.

Cleveland, too.

With 8:09 left in the first quarter, James was saluted by the Cavs with a moving video tribute during a timeout. Images of James' playing days with Cleveland - highlighted by the Cavs' historic comeback to win the 2016 title - were shown along with video clips of his impact on the community, including his opening of the I Promise School in his hometown of Akron.

James towers over the defender to dunk two of his 32 points in Wednesday's clash

Kentavious Caldwell-Pope made four free throws in the final 15 to seal it for Los Angeles

One James supporter dons a split jersey with his Cavaliers and Lakers colours

The 33-year-old takes a Cavaliers shirt as a souvenir after helping the Lakers to victory

James was touched by the presentation. He bit his lower lip while walking back onto court and pointed to all corners of the building in appreciation, his chance to reconnect with a fan base he'll always share a special, if not complicated, relationship.

'I appreciate these fans, just as much as they appreciate me,' he said. 'Every single night we stepped on the floor, they always showed their appreciation to not only myself but to my team-mates over these 11 years, especially the last four years -those championship runs that we were making.

'So that was just my salute to them for them appreciating what I was able to accomplish with my teammates and coaches along those four years.'

James shakes hands with Larry Nance Jnr of the Cleveland Cavaliers after the game

'I appreciate these fans, just as much as they appreciate me,' James said after the match

====== 2491 ========

LEWIS HAMILTON ARRIVES AHEAD OF THE ABU DHABI GRAND PRIX LOOKING FOR HIS 11TH WIN OF THE SEASON

Lewis Hamilton was among the early arrivals in Abu Dhabi ahead of the final grand prix of the Formula One season as he hopes to end a stunning year on a high.

But before focusing on victory on Sunday, Hamilton was more interested in catching up with old rival Fernando Alonso shortly before the duo's press conference.

Hamilton and Alonso were involved in one of F1's biggest ever team-mate spats while at McLaren in 2007, with their in-fighting and politics proving key to them losing out on the world championship by just one point to Kimi Raikkonen.

Lewis Hamilton (right) and Fernando Alonso look at a smart phone in the paddock

They have long since buried the ill-feeling that marred their 2007 relationship as team-mates

Hamilton and Alonso share a joke during the pre-race press conference in Abu Dhabi

McLaren have unveiled a farewell livery on their orange cars in tribute to Alonso's last F1 race

The blue, red and yellow colour scheme match the crash helmet colours worn by Alonso

But time has proven a big healer between the pair, who have long since buried the hatchet.

Alonso heads into the weekend ready to call time on 17 years in the sport, with his McLaren team revealing a livery on his car replicating his crash helmet colours

Hamilton t has already clinched his fifth world championship heading into the finale at the Yas Marina circuit, while his team Mercedes clinched the constructor's title at the previous race in Brazil.

Walking through the paddock with his smart phone, Hamilton cut a calm figure as he targets winning an 11th race of the season - which would be over half of the 21-venue strong calendar.

Hamilton swapped four wheels for two as he he uses his scooter to get around the F1 paddock

Hamilton arrives ahead of this weekend's Abu Dhabi Grand Prix at the Yas Marina circuit

Although there is little to play for in the championship, Hamilton can be sure he will have rivals queuing up desperate to end the season on the top step of the podium.

Chief among them is Max Verstappen who was controversially denied victory at Interlagos last time out.

The Red Bull star looked sure of victory at the Brazilian Grand Prix only to be taken out on the track by Esteban Ocon who with a clumsy move tried to unlap himself.

Verstappen has been in top form in the second half of the season, and will look to strengthen his credentials as a title challenger heading into 2019, where Red Bull hope to have an improved engine package with new power unit supplier Honda.

Alonso will be competing in Formula One for the last time driving for McLaren

Sebastian Vettel's passes through the paddock entrance on arrival at the Yas Marina Circuit

Hamilton's Mercedes team-mate Valtteri Bottas will hope to avoid ending the season winless

By contrast Sebastian Vettel has suffered a dreadful second half of the season, going winless in the last seven races as he saw his and Ferrari's high hopes of ending a 10-year championship drought capitulate.

The German will also hope to get back to winning ways, just to prove he can still take the fight to Hamilton going forward.

Hamilton may find his enemies are closer to home though. Team-mate Valtteri Bottas has failed to win a race this season and having been forced to move over to let Hamilton win the Russian Grand Prix will feel he is due a win to see out the campaign.

As well as Alonso, the race will also mark an end of an era for Daniel Ricciardo who will race for Red Bull for the last time after five seasons to join Renault in 2019.

====== 2492 ========

BENJAMIN MENDY FOLLOWS MAN CITY STAR SERGIO AGUERO BY DYING HAIR GREY

Benjamin Mendy has followed the example set by Manchester City team-mate Sergio Aguero and gone prematurely grey.

Striker Aguero ditched his natural black hair earlier this month when he debuted a dyed silver fox-look in City's 3-1 win over rivals United.

Left back Mendy, who is currently in Barcelona after undergoing knee surgery, has now followed suit.

Manchester City left back Benjamin Mendy died his hair grey during the international break

City posed a Twitter video in which a grey-haired Mendy was seen with a bandaged right knee

Sergio Aguero debuted his grey hair earlier this month when he scored in a 3-1 win over United

CITY'S NEXT FIXTURES West Ham (A), PL - Nov 24 Lyon (A), UCL - Nov 27 Bournemouth (H), PL - Dec 1 Watford (A), PL - Dec 4 Chelsea (A), PL - Dec 8 Hoffenheim (H), UCL - Dec 12 Everton (H), PL - Dec 15

On Thursday, City's official Twitter account uploaded a video of Mendy stretching his legs, one of which was bandaged, but the main focus of the post was the Frenchman's head.

The video was captioned with the message: '.@benmendy23 rocking that @aguerosergiokun look!'

Mendy completed the full 90 minutes in City's derby triumph over United, but was later put under the knife after suffering a small tear to the meniscus cartilage in his left knee.

He travelled to Barcelona to have the procedure done by renowned surgeon Dr Ramon Cugat.

At the weekend he was seen posing triumphantly as he walked out of hospital after surgery.

He has remained in Barcelona to continue his rehabilitation. No return date has been set but he will play no part on Saturday when City visit West Ham.

Mendy was still sporting his natural black hair in City's derby win over their Manchester rivals

====== 2493 ========

MAN UTD ACE CHRIS SMALLING PULLS ON HIS APRON TO SERVE FOOD FOR MANCHESTER’S HOMELESS

Chris Smalling is not used to providing chances on the pitch for his team-mates but he's proved a dab hand at serving things up this week.

The Manchester United defender donned an apron and went behind the scenes at Barnabus and dished out the food to those who attended the homeless charity.

He also went over to the sink and scrubbed some dishes to help out with the charity's efforts.

Chris Smalling cleaned dishes while helping out at homeless charity Barnabus in Manchester

He also served up food to those who had attended the charity, which helps homeless people

It is part of a quest for the 29-year-old to raise £29,000 in celebration of his birthday, which was on Thursday.

He tweeted: 'In celebration of my 29th birthday today I am raising £29k for Barnabus to guarantee a fun-filled Xmas period for those less fortunate.'

Barnabus provide support to 600 homeless people in Manchester, helping with their physical, emotional and spiritual needs. They have previously received the 'unsung heroes' Queens award for Voluntary Service.

United have opened up contract talks with Smalling as they look to extend his contract

Smalling has been part of a United side that has been having an up-and-down campaign and currently sit eighth in the Premier League.

But the centre-back himself looks like he is set for some positive personal news in the near future.

United have opened contract talks with Smalling in a bid to keep the defender at Old Trafford.

Smalling's current £80,000-a-week deal runs out in the summer and it's understood that he is looking to increase that figure to closer to £120,000.

====== 2494 ========

ROMELU LUKAKU'S FIRES MESSAGE TO MANCHESTER UNITED PLAYERS AT ODDS WITH MOURINHO

Romelu Lukaku has leapt to the defence of Jose Mourinho by telling any Manchester United team-mates who are upset with the manager to 'deal with it'.

Paul Pogba had a number of problems with Mourinho over the summer, while Eric Bailly has made his displeasure known after falling out of favour.

Alexis Sanchez's future remains uncertain, too, but Lukaku urged any disgruntled players to act their age as United bid to narrow a seven-point gap between themselves and the top four at home to Crystal Palace.

Romelu Lukaku has issued advice to team-mates who have been criticised by Jose Mourinho

Mourinho has come to blows with a number of players and United are languishing in eighth

The most public spat came between Mourinho and Paul Pogba on the training ground

'I think (Mourinho) has a good relationship with the players,' Lukaku told Bleacher Report. 'If he has an argument with somebody, I mean, deal with it, man. You're a grown-a** man, deal with it.

'I don't really pay attention to what his relationship is with the other players, to be honest. I don't think it's something that should affect me.'

Midfielder Pogba's frosty relationship with Mourinho has thawed somewhat after a move did not materialise before the August transfer deadline, although tensions could resurface as January approaches.

The United manager wants a new central defender and that is likely to be the only business the club do in the winter transfer window. Mourinho was exasperated at United's failure to land any of his defensive targets in the summer.

United are sending a scout to watch Fiorentina defender Nikola Milenkovic in action at Bologna on Sunday.

The 6ft 5in centre half, who can also play at right back, has long been on a list of potential targets and was watched by Mourinho in October while playing for Serbia against Montenegro.

Milenkovic is under contract until 2022 and Fiorentina president Pantaleo Corvino values him at around £50million.

Lukaku was asked whether Mournho had a good relationship with players in the United squad

The 21-year-old's wages are relatively small, however, at around £12,000 a week. Milenkovic, a friend of Serbia team-mate and United midfielder Nemanja Matic, is aware of the interest from Old Trafford.

United are considering a number of other options but recognise January is a difficult time to land their prime targets.

Napoli's Kalidou Koulibaly has been watched while Harry Maguire at Leicester City remains of interest, although escalating prices and the importance placed on both players at their clubs would make deals difficult mid-season.

Lukaku thinks that those who have had run-ins with Mourinho should deal with it better

====== 2495 ========

JOSE MOURINHO HEADS OUT FOR DINNER IN MANCHESTER UNITED TRACKSUIT

It was a busy night for Jose Mourinho as he was spotted out and about in Manchester on Wednesday.

The Manchester United manager returned to the Lowry Hotel early in the evening with a smile and a wave for the staff before heading straight back out.

Dressed head to toe in a club tracksuit and with his hood up to protect him from the cold, the Portuguese made his way through the city centre with an associate.

Jose Mourinho arrived at the Lowry Hotel in Manchester on Wednesday evening

The Manchester United boss smiled for the hotel staff before heading straight back out

They eventually settled on a place to eat, Brazilian restaurant Bem Brazil, after being accosted by a homeless man asking for some spare change.

Mourinho may well be considering asking executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward to turn out his pockets this January.

The United boss remains desperate for a new centre back that he so publicly craved during the summer.

Mourinho was accompanied by an associate as he looked to grab a bit to eat in the city centre

Mourinho put the hood up on his tracksuit as he braved the chilly conditions in the north west

The pair were asked for some spare change by a homeless man on their walk

He chased a handful of defenders including Leicester's Harry Maguire but was overruled by Woodward in his quest to strengthen the squad.

But he will have to make do with what he has now when Crystal Palace come to Old Trafford on Saturday.

United sit eighth in the table after 12 games, behind both Watford and Bournemouth, and have already conceded 21 goals in the process.

====== 2496 ========

CHELSEA STARS RETURN TO TRAINING AS MAURIZIO SARRI PREPARES HIS MEN FOR TOTTENHAM TEST

David Luiz was keen to make an impression during training as Chelsea began their preparations for Saturday's London derby against Tottenham.

The Brazilian defender celebrated enthusiastically after scoring in a drill at Chelsea's training ground in Cobham on Wednesday.

The 31-year-old is keen to extend his stay at the Blues and sign a new contract after winning over boss Maurizio Sarri.

Chelsea defender David Luiz was keen to make an impression during training on Wednesday

The Brazilian defender showed he can deliver at both ends after scoring in a training drill

'It's not even only about the physical aspect but also about the mental one,' Sarri told Gazzetta Dello Sport.

'David Luiz [has] surprised me by his availability and cleverness.'

Luiz will be free to discuss a free transfer to another club from January onwards but talks over a new deal to stay in west London are expected to begin soon.

Midfielder Ross Barkley was keen to impress after helping England beat Croatia at Wembley

Maurizio Sarri's men are still unbeaten going into Saturday's clash against Tottenham

Chelsea's policy is to only offer one-year deals to players over the age of 30, meaning Cesc Fabregas, Gary Cahill, Olivier Giroud and Willy Caballero are all currently in the same boat as Luiz.

Ross Barkley was also keen to impress after helping England beat Croatia at Wembley on Sunday.

Danny Drinkwater also had a point to prove after Sportsmail revealed the £35million midfielder had become a virtual outcast as Sarri had made it clear he does not fit into his tactical system.

====== 2497 ========

LIVERPOOL BUDDIES MOHAMED SALAH AND DEJAN LOVREN CONTINUE THEIR BROMANCE AHEAD OF CLASH WITH WATFORD

Mohamed Salah and Dejan Lovren are reunited as the pair returned to training after the international break ahead of Liverpool's clash with Watford.

The duo are often posting pictures together on Instagram as their friendship continues to grow.

Despite seeing each other 10 days ago in The Reds' 2-0 victory over Fulham, the Liverpool stars looked delighted to be back together again.

Dejan Lovren posted a picture on his Instagram story alongside his friend Mohamed Salah

Lovren has shown his loyalty to Salah by his continued spat with Real Madrid defender Sergio Ramos.

The Real Madrid captain tangled with Salah in May's Champions League final which resulted in the Liverpool forward being taken off injured.

Since that day Ramos and Lovren have exchanged words with the Croatian defender recently taunting the Spain international after Croatia's 3-2 win on Thursday.

Salah also posted a video zooming in on his pal to show his delight that the pair are reunited

Lovren hasn't played for Jurgen Klopp's side since October and will be hoping to face Watford

Ramos later liked a photo posted on Instagram of Lovren crying after Liverpool's 3-1 defeat to Real Madrid in May.

Salah scored a last-minute winner for Egypt against Tunisia in African Cup of Nations qualifying on Friday.

Lovren hasn't played for Jurgen Klopp's side since October and will be hoping to apply the pressure on Premier League leaders Manchester City on Saturday, with a win against Watford.

====== 2498 ========

RAMOS MAKES MOST OF INJURY BY WATCHING HORSE YUCATAN DE RAMOS BECOME WORLD CHAMPION

Sergio Ramos became a world champion with Spain in 2010 and now his horse has achieved the same feat.

The defender made the most of having to miss Spain's friendly with Bosnia and Herzegovina through injury by watching Yucatan de Ramo's victory.

Ramos' fiancee Pilar Rubio posted a picture of the pair with two of their sons alongside their world champion on to Instagram on Wednesday.

Sergio Ramos with his three sons in grey jackets - Sergio Jr (L), Alejandro, Marco (R) and his fiancee Pilar Rubio at the Salon Internacional del Caballo (SICAB) show in Seville

She wrote: 'We’re so happy because #YucatandeRamos has become winner of the world 2018. Congratulations @yeguadasr4oficial!!! We love you dad @sergioramos.'

Ramos returned to Spain following their UEFA Nations League defeat by Croatia last Thursday after suffering an injury to his adductor muscle.

The Real Madrid centre back attended the Salon Internacional del Caballo (SICAB) show in Seville.

Ramos uploaded a photo after Yucatan de Ramos was victorious at the event last weekend

Ramos uploaded a photo on to the social media platform after Yucatan de Ramos was victorious at the International Pre Horse Fair last weekend.

The 32-year-old proposed to Rubio in the summer and the couple have three children, all boys. The oldest, Sergio, was born in May 2014 and the two younger children are named, Marco and Alejandro - the latter of which was born in March this year.

Ramos will be hoping to be fit for Madrid's trip to Eibar in La Liga on Saturday afternoon.

====== 2499 ========

TENNIS STAR EUGENIE BOUCHARD SHOWS OFF HER FOOTBALL SKILLS ON THE BEACH

Eugenie Bouchard's first trophy of the calendar year came away from her familiar surroundings as she starred in a Sports Illustrated celebrity football match.

The 24-year-old Canadian showed off her skills on the sand over the course of the weekend to help raise money for Best Buddies, a charity set up to help form one-to-one friendships.

Bouchard won two trophies as she helped her team win silverware before being crowned MVP for playing a key role in their success.

Eugenie Bouchard is all smiles as she poses with her team trophy and personal MVP award

The tennis star dribbles with the ball as she fends off a challenge during the Miami tournament

Bouchard finished on the winning side and was named MVP at Sports Illustrated's tournament

BOUCHARD'S 2018 Australian Open: R64 French Open: Retired Wimbledon: R64 US Open: R64

Former MLS star Landon Donovan, Paralympic snowboarder Brenna Huckaby and model Samantha Hoopes were among those competing at the tournament.

Bouchard, who often trains in Florida despite residing in the Bahamas, then enjoyed a night out in Miami thanks to her close connections with Sports Illustrated.

The tennis star was serenaded by American rapper Flo Rida as she celebrated her win on the Miami sand.

She also posed on a boat with professional golfer Michelle Wie to cap off an enjoyable weekend for the Canadian.

Her year on the court did not go to plan with Bouchard crashing out at the round 64 stage at the Australian Open, Wimbledon and US Open.

She is ranked 88th in the world.

Former MLS star Landon Donovan showed off his skills as he played alongside local children

Bouchard (left) capped off an enjoyable weekend by going on a boat trip with Michelle Wie

====== 2500 ========

TYSON FURY'S FAT TO FIT WEIGHT TRANSFORMATION AHEAD OF DEONTAY WILDER FIGHT

Tyson Fury ballooned to more than 400lbs, a staggering 28.5 stone during his hiatus from the boxing ring. His transformation back to a lean, mean boxing machine has been astonishing.

The former world champion struggled with depression that manifested itself in frequent use of cocaine and marathon drinking sessions following his victory over Wladimir Klitschko in 2015.

The 'Gypsy King' has since opened up about his struggle with mental health, managing to drag himself back from the abyss and is looking in better shape than ever ahead of his blockbuster fight with Deontay Wilder on December 1.

Tyson Fury weighed around 28.5 stone in November 2017 and how he looks now ahead of fighting Deontay Wilder

The former heavyweight world champion ballooned after consuming enormous amount of food and alcohol

Fury was almost unrecognisable from the man who overcame Wladimir Klitschko in Germany in 2016

The 'Gypsy King' has since revealed that he would drink 20 pints around four nights a week for an extended period of time

In November last year, Fury posted what has become used as the reference point for his physical transformation.

Seemingly at his heaviest, the 30-year-old shared a picture with Ricky Hatton, his belly protruding and fists clenched.

'Looking well here rick, both in great shape,' he wrote in jest, though below the surface Fury fans know he was in turmoil.

Fury had well and truly fallen out of love with boxing and subsequently fallen off the wagon.

When explaining the horrendous condition he was in to American broadcaster Showtime, he said: 'In England, we have pints of beer. It's like a big thing [and] I used to drink 20 of them like four or five times a week.

'This belly was out here, this back was out here. I had wings on me. I'm disfigured for life. I've got stretch marks all over my body.'

Fury decided he would try to lose the weight gradually and announced his comeback with promoter Frank Warren (right)

TYSON FURY'S FAT-BURNING DIET Fury puts his weight loss down to the ketone diet, which consists of high fats, minimal carbohydrates and some protein. So bacon and eggs are fine, bread and pasta are out. During the most intense stage of weight loss and training, Fury had seven meals per day totalling between 3,500 and 5,5000 calories-per-day, most of which were burned off in the gym.

And his brother Shane recently told BT Sport: 'It's amazing that he's come back from where he was.

'He wasn't just fat, he never just put a load of weight on. He was down. He was a state. Horrible.

'Listen, I'm fat and he was fatter than me. He was in a bad way, a worse way than we thought he was because we didn't know what was going on.

'He never got any sympathy from us, we'd say, you're a fool, you're just seeking attention, you're a clown. We'd just criticise him. But what he was going through was hard. He needs goals, no matter what he's doing. I think he knows now that's what he's got to do.'

Miraculously, Fury pledged to return as heavyweight champion of the world and set off on long, arduous journey to lose the weight and battle his demons.

In January this year after being cleared to return to boxing more than two years after his last fight, the hard graft began in earnest with the help of nutritionist Greg Marriott.

Hard graft in the gym helped Fury shed the weight in addition to a ketogenic diet that helped him burn fat

In his comeback fight against Sefer Seferi (right), the 30-year-old still looked in worse shape than his last outing in the ring

The improvements were there for all to see and the next step on his journey came against Francesco Pianeta in August

Fury regularly posted updates with his followers on social media to share his remarkable progress in the gym

Fury was consuming 3,500 calories every day but expending 2,000 calories in the gym.

He went on a ketogenic diet, which essentially cuts out carbohydrates and allows the body to enter a state of ketosis, meaning fat is burned as energy. It allows you to eat bacon, eggs other high fat foods.

Gradually, as the weight started to drop off, stone by stone, Fury's transformation became increasingly apparent.

He regularly updated his followers with progress videos and snapshots of a slimmed down torso.

Relentless cardio and plenty of training sessions combined with the diet helped Fury back to fighting shape

Fury's commitment to regain his position as heavyweight champion of the world cannot be questioned

The unbeaten Mancunian dismantled Sefer Seferi in his comeback in June, a hugely significant step. For that fight he weighed in at almost 20 stone, so while he had shifted a significant amount of weight, the transformation was not yet complete.

He looked in even better condition for his last encounter with Francesco Pianeta, where he dropped closer to 18 stone, which is his optimum fighting weight and what he'll hope the scales will read at the weigh-in before he takes on Wilder.

His tree-truck legs and knees that were surrounded by fat now looked lean and mobile. The sharp footwork and evasion were apparent and his body was a machine he could work with once more. Fury had shed 10 stone and looked sensational.

In the build-up to his massive encounter with Wilder, Fury has been training with even more of a renewed fervour and looks in better shape than he was before dethroning Klitschko.

Regardless of whether he can emerge as victor in his WBC title fight with the 'Bronze Bomber', Fury's loss of ten stone and successful battle in overcoming his mental health problems are remarkable accomplishments.

The 'Gypsy King' came back from his battle with depression to find a renewed motivation and is hungry for success

In an open workout in Los Angeles, he showed off the lean, muscular physique he has worked hard to craft

====== 2501 ========

ANTHONY JOSHUA MAKES PROMISE AS HE RETURNS TO GYM AFTER JAMAICA BREAK

There is no more winter sun for Anthony Joshua as he returned to the gym after a holiday with a challenge to his heavyweight rivals.

Joshua has been sunning himself in Jamaica in recent weeks, but on Wednesday morning posted pictures to his Instagram page showing he is back in training.

The British boxer accompanied pictures of him in weight training along with a message that he is going to knock out any contender for his world titles.

Scroll down for video

Anthony Joshua returned to the gym after a holiday with a challenge to his heavyweight rivals

Joshua posted a clip of him weightlifting along with a promise in lurid green writing

The boxer was working his body and legs with huge dumbbells balanced across his shoulders

Joshua posted a clip of him weightlifting, working his body and legs with huge dumbbells balanced across his shoulders.

It was accompanied by a caption in lurid green writing: 'Bigger and stronger! Knocking all top 10 fighters out one by one'.

Joshua was working under the eye of Nike trainer Jamie Reynolds, who also posted a black and white image of the world champion fighter in his weight lifting regime.

It was a marked change of scene for Joshua from last week when he was in Jamaica

It was a marked change of scene for Joshua from last week, when his social media was filled with pictures of him living it up in the Caribbean.

While away in Jamaica, the heavyweight champion showed a different side to his performing repertoire as he grabbed a microphone and put his singing to the test alongside reggae artist Beenie Man.

Having beaten Alexander Povetkin in September, the 29-year-old has taken a brief hiatus from the ring.

Joshua's next fight is set to be at Wembley Stadium on April 13 next year. Speculation persists that he will fight the winner of Tyson Fury against Deontay Wilder, who clash on December 1.

====== 2502 ========

ISRAEL PLAYERS ENSURE YOUNG MASCOTS STAY WARM BY GIVING THEM THEIR JACKETS

Neymar proved he couldn't handle a cold night in Milton Keynes on Tuesday and it seemed the mascots at the Scotland and Israel game also struggled with the freezing conditions.

Before kick-off in the Nations League clash at Hampden Park, the Israeli players made sure their respective mascots were warm during the national anthems.

Each player kindly unzipped and took off their warm-up jackets and then wrapped them around the youngsters, who were clearly freezing on a bleak night in Glasgow.

Scroll down for video

The mascots at the Scotland and Israel game struggled with the bitter cold conditions

The Israeli players made sure their respective mascots were warm during the national anthems

Israeli striker Munas Dabbur was among those to wrap his pre-match jacket around his mascot

The gesture saw the Israeli team receive plenty of plaudits on social media after the game as well.

'Israel players giving their jackets to the shivering mascots is another proof that football is always more than just a game. #MoreThanAGame', wrote @ajabraham92.

@Claireyzumba added: 'The Israel players giving their jackets to the mascots during the national anthems to make sure they stayed warm made my night! Clearly wanted to make sure the kids were alright -it’s the small things!'.

Brazilian midfielder Willian was also pictured wrapping his pre-match top around a mascot before their 1-0 win over Cameroon at Stadium MK.

What about all the Israel players giving their jackets to the shivering mascots? 👏🏻 👏🏻

What a lovely touch.

I remember being in the tunnel when Gordon Strachan took time out from his pre-match duties to arrange cold weather kit for the kids in similar conditions. Class. #SCOISR pic.twitter.com/9C7updrMaY — David Tanner (@DavidTannerTV) November 20, 2018

Brazil's Willian was also pictured wrapping his pre-match top around a mascot at Stadium MK

On a night of high drama in Glasgow, Celtic winger James Forrest notched a stunning hat-trick as Scotland claimed a thrilling 3-2 win.

Former Hoops midfielder Beram Kayal opened the scoring with the Scots surviving a late goal from midfielder Eran Zahavi with only a great save from keeper Allan McGregor denying the visitors an equaliser.

It was a game Scotland needed to win to finish top of Group C1 and they will now be promoted to Group B with the play-off in 2020 likely to be against Finland.

====== 2503 ========

MANCHESTER CITY STAR RAHEEM STERLING HAS PLAYFUL SCRAP WITH SON THIAGO

Having earned a break following England's qualification for the Nations League finals and with Manchester City top of the Premier League, Raheem Sterling has decamped to Dubai with his family.

The forward posted a relaxed selfie with girlfriend Paige Millian, before uploading cute videos to Instagram with son Thiago.

In the first clip, Sterling takes a selfie with the one-year-old, asking 'who's that?', to which he delightedly replies 'daddy!'

Work with England well done, Raheem Sterling has decamped to Dubai with his family

The Manchester City forward posted cute and hilarious videos with one-year-old son Thiago

In one clip, the one-year-old pokes her finger into his dad's mouth, making him squirm

Sterling tells Thiago he has cut his mouth, only to get a playful punch to his head in response

However things are a little less civil in the next selfie video, with Thiago playing with his father's face, sticking his finger in his mouth.

After initially laughing in the playful scrap, Sterling gives a little squeal and tells him 'you cut my mouth!'. Any paternal discipline is undermined however when he gives his father a playful punch to the forehead.

Sterling is out in Dubai with his long-term girlfriend Millian and their child Thiago, born last year, who Millian posted a selfie with next to the caption 'sun, sea and my boys.'

Sterling then met up with England international cricketer Chris Jordan at 40 Kong restaurant

Following his family time, the world of football and cricket collided as Sterling met up with England international Chris Jordan at the 40 Kong rooftop restaurant.

Sterling posted pictures from the view up on the restaurant, with a stunning night time shot showing them having drinks with the Burj Al Arab hotel in view.

It will only be a short break for Sterling however, with City back at the Premier League grindstone this weekend.

They travel to West Ham in the league, before a crucial Champions League encounter away to Lyon next week.

====== 2504 ========

ALEXIS SANCHEZ MAKES CHILE FAN'S DREAM COME TRUE AS HE GIFTS SHIRT AND BOOTS

Alexis Sanchez may be struggling for form at the moment but that has not affected his standing among Chile supporters.

That was evident following their 4-1 win over Honduras last night when a young supporter broken down in tears after Sanchez gifted him his shirt and boots.

The Manchester United forward uploaded a picture and video of the moment he presented the fan with the gifts in the changing rooms at the Estadio German Becker in Temuco.

Alexis Sanchez gifted a young supporter his shirt and boots after Chile's win over Honduras

The forward uploaded a picture and video of the moment he presented the fan with the gifts

Sanchez struck the 41st international goal of his career for Chile as they defeated Honduras 4-1 - with the hosts awarded three penalties.

The forward saw his penalty on the hour mark saved by Honduras goalkeeper Luis Lopez, only to pounce on the rebound and score.

As he celebrated, the young fan ran onto the pitch to celebrate with his idol. He responded by putting his arm around him before inviting him into the dressing room at full-time.

Sanchez then handed him his match jersey and boots before posing for a picture with the caption: 'the innocence of children is one of the things most beautiful.'

Sanchez, who has been out of sorts all season for his club, is Chile's all-time record goalscorer and his 41st goal for them came in his 124th appearance.

Sanchez celebrates his 41st international goal for Chile in their 4-1 friendly win over Honduras

Chile were jeered by their own supporters during a 3-2 loss to Costa Rica on Friday night but produced a much-improved performance.

They took an eighth-minute lead when Sanchez's header from a Jean Beausejour cross was saved by Luis Lopez, only for Arturo Vidal to tap home.

And Vidal doubled the lead 10 minutes before half-time, only for Alex Lopez to halve the deficit shortly afterwards.

A handball decision handed Sanchez the opportunity to make it 3-1, one he took at the second time of asking.

And a third penalty - again for handball - saw Nicolas Castillo seal a straightforward win for Chile six minutes from the end.

Sanchez will hope to be involved when United return to action at home to Crystal Palace on Saturday afternoon.

====== 2505 ========

CHRIS GUNTER BECOMES RECORD APPEARANCE MAKER FOR WALES AS HIS SIDE SLIP TO DEFEAT IN ALBANIA

Chris Gunter was named Wales captain for his record-breaking 93rd appearance against Albania.

Reading defender Gunter led a team showing eight changes from the Nations League defeat to Denmark on Friday as he went past Neville Southall's 92-cap mark for Wales.

He was unable to prevent them slipping to a disappointing 1-0 defeat, with Bekim Balaj converting a penalty after Harry Wilson fouled Taulant Xhaka.

Chris Gunter led Wales out as he celebrated his 93rd cap to break Neville Southall's record

The visitors had numerous chances to take the lead with David Brooks and Wilson particularly bright, but they were ultimately unable to make a breakthrough.

Gareth Bale and Aaron Ramsey were among the substitutes in Elbasan as Andy King won his 50th cap.

Both were thrown on as Ryan Giggs sought to rescue the game, but neither could make a telling impact.

Anderlecht defender James Lawrence and Dan James made debuts and Tom Lockyer, Harry Wilson and Sam Vokes also started.

Albania made five changes from Saturday's 4-0 home defeat to Scotland that confirmed their relegation to League D of the Nations League.

====== 2506 ========

NEYMAR AND KYLIAN MBAPPE BOTH COME OFF IN FRIENDLIES CASTING DOUBT OVER FITNESS FOR LIVERPOOL GAME

Neymar and Kylian Mbappe are doubts for Paris Saint-Germain's Champions League clash with Liverpool next week after coming off injured in friendlies for Brazil and France on Tuesday night.

Supporters who bought tickets for Brazil v Cameroon at Stadium:MK to see Neymar were left bitterly disappointed as he came off injured after eight minutes.

Mbappe, playing for France in a friendly against Uruguay in Paris, was forced off after 36 minutes with what appeared to be a shoulder injury.

It casts doubt over their availability for two of Paris Saint-Germain's next games but Neymar posted on Instagram after the match: 'Thanks for all of the messages wishing me a good recovery. I think it was nothing serious.'

Neymar was forced off injured early in Brazil's international friendly against Cameroon

The striker went down clearly in pain during the early stages of the game in Milton Keynes

Kylian Mbappe went down after hurdling over Uruguay goalkeeper Martin Campana

Mbappe looked in some discomfort and was pictured clutching his right shoulder after falling

Following the game, Brazil manager Tite refused to comment on Neymar's injury. Staff for the Brazil team added that it was PSG's place to confirm the severity of the injury, not theirs, although team doctor Rodrigo Lasmar had told Brazilian channel Globo TV during the game that it was too early to tell whether he would be out.

'He came off complaining of pain,' said Lasmar. 'He felt a discomfort, he will need a bit more time to evaluate it and take a scan, but in principle it is not a serious injury.'

PSG host Toulouse in Ligue 1 on Saturday before hosting Liverpool a week on Wednesday.

Neymar started the international friendly in Milton Keynes but was forced off went he went down with a problem.

He seemed to be troubled by a pain in his thigh before being replaced in the eighth minute of Brazil's game against Cameroon at the Stadium:MK. Brazil's doctor Rodrigo Lasmar could not determine the extent of the injury at such an early stage.

Young supporters held up banners before the match asking for Neymar's shirt and boots

He was replaced by Everton forward Richarlison with over 80 minutes left to play.

Fans had held banners ahead of kick-off asking for the Brazilian's shirt and boots.

He limped off the pitch before being embraced by head coach Tite.

He appeared to be having trouble putting any weight on his right leg as he went down the tunnel.

Neymar's PSG team-mate Maxim Choupo-Moting, who was playing for Cameroon, said the star man's injury is concerning.

He said: 'It would be worrying because he is a very important player, as all the players (at PSG) are. No player is more important than the team.

Mbappe had to be helped up before he managed to walk off the field of play in Paris

'He's a great player though and I hope he is not injured for a long time.

'I think it's not too too serious. I hope he will be ready next week for us.'

Mbappe writhed around in pain on the Stade de France pitch after hurdling Uruguay goalkeeper Martin Campana.

He wasn't able to continue and was replaced by Florian Thauvin.

Neymar's absence for the majority of Tuesday's game was a blow for those who had chosen to attend. Children had gathered pitchside pre-match in the hope of getting photos with him and others carried signs asking for his shirt.

They did, however, see another star emerge in Everton striker Richarlison, who scored the only goal of the game. Tite praised him after he replaced Neymar: 'I was not surprised by Richarlison's performance.

'What I saw today was the continuation of him always coming on and playing well for Brazil.

'In his first game he really impressed with his incision and his finishing, both his head and on the floor.

'I've also seen him play on the wing for Brazil and play really well and because of his qualities in training we can also imagine his playing as a second striker as well.

'He's someone who's really impressed me since coming into the team.'

====== 2507 ========

JOEY BARTON ON THE CRISIS FACING YOUNG PLAYERS IN MODERN FOOTBALL

The first thing Joey Barton was told as a trainee at Manchester City was that he would probably never make the first team. He wonders how that conversation would sound now, two decades on.

'There were about 25 boys and they told us straight that maybe one would make it,' Barton recalled. 'There we were, full of dreams and it was suddenly, 'Look lads, this isn't Narnia. Many of you won't make it here. But we will give you the foundations to earn a living somewhere'.

'I was lucky. I did get through. I was at Everton until I was 14 and then City. Two academies producing players for their first team.

Fleetwood's Joey Barton is concerned at the lack of opportunities given to homegrown stars

‘The lie of the land has changed now. If I was coming through now, would I make to the Premier League? Probably not. It is too hard for British boys. Historically we have produced incredible players — George Best, Stanley Matthews, Bobby Charlton. But if we carry on flooding the market with foreign youngsters, then what chance do our kids have?’

Barton’s lament is familiar but the issue is real. Academy coaches say the standard of young footballers coming through the system has never been higher yet the number of English players in the Premier League sits at 33 per cent and falling.

England manager Gareth Southgate calls the job of increasing the numbers an ‘ethical challenge’ and that seems a pretty good way of putting it.

Barton is currently manager at Fleetwood Town in League One. Like every club in the EFL, Fleetwood are obliged to name at least one club-developed player on the matchday team sheet. Extending this principle further, Barton has selected two 16-year-olds — James Hill and Dylan Boyle — in cup competitions this season.

At Fleetwood, developing footballers is a business model. Recently, the club helped an eight-year-old move to Manchester City. If they can’t keep a player, they can certainly use the compensation.

‘I was an academy product so I believe I have a moral obligation to create pathways for boys,’ added Barton. ‘But what happens to English boys once they are at the top Premier League clubs? I have no control over that.’

Barton is obliged to name at least one club-developed player on the match day team sheet

Last week Sportsmail revealed the hunger of Bundesliga leaders Borussia Dortmund to continue their recruitment of young players from the Premier League. Dortmund’s team contains homegrown players but is supplemented by 18-year-old Englishman Jadon Sancho, once of City.

At a recent academy game at Tottenham, meanwhile, a scout from Ajax made notes on every single player on show. Fleetwood academy head Ciaran Donnelly told Sportsmail: ‘The investment in the academies over the last 10 years in England has changed the landscape. Technically and physically our young players are better than anybody else’s now. But there has to be something done to provide opportunities for these players higher up the ladder.

‘At this club we want our young players in the first team but we know what we are about. If an elite club comes in for one of ours — like City did — we will actively help the player go if we think it’s right.

‘I just hope there are opportunities for them to play there. We have spent money on academies in this country and it is working.

‘It would be typically English not to capitalise on it now.’

AT Fleetwood’s own academy on the Lancashire coast, the recruitment and nurturing of young players is as important as it is to those in leagues above them. If Fleetwood — average attendance 3,000 — don’t develop, play or sell their own players, they can’t compete.

The club have only been in the Football League for six years and the academy has only been running for three.

Thanks to the investment of owner Andy Pilley, facilities for Fleetwood’s young players are sophisticated enough for clubs in the Championship and even one or two in the Premier League to envy.

Fleetwood academy head Ciaran Donnelly oversees the club's youth development programme

Attitudes towards the education and coaching of academy boys are a mixture of progressive and pleasingly old school. Some traditions we thought had died out on the back of stuffy modern directives actually still exist.

Here the club’s young players still clean the first-team players’ boots, for example. Pre-season involved a trip to Scotland where the Under 18s hiked up mountains, built rafts and were woken at 5am to go running.

‘There are certain things the boys aren’t allowed to do and that’s for the better,’ said Donnelly. ‘We don’t want them cleaning the toilets. But we do want them grounded.

‘We could be like a big club and treat them like little princes. But we are trying to produce good people. We are obsessed with that.

‘We don’t want prima donnas, lads who can’t deal with adversity. It’s old school but I believe that sloppy off the pitch leads to sloppy on the pitch. We believe in manners, timekeeping.

‘When 16-year-olds taste first-team football they think they have arrived. So we bring them back down to reality the next day.

‘James Hill played away at Leicester against some superstars, got back at 2am and the next day we had him cleaning boots. It’s important.’

Donnelly, 34, has a simple understanding with Barton, one that is not always echoed at Premier League level. If he produces young players who are good enough, Barton will play them.

The recruitment and nurturing of youngsters is as important as it is to those in leagues above

‘It’s a balance for me because if you are getting beat every week I am not sure how good that is for any player’s development,’ said Barton.

‘I brought in some seniors during the summer as the squad balance had gone too far the other way. But I spoke to the owner at the start and asked him what he wanted. If I want results and he wants to develop players then it’s tough but they are not mutually exclusive. We both want both. Fleetwood is the old-school model. We have the foresight to do it because we know it’s right for the players and for fans who want local players.

‘So yeah, I need to win but also to prepare these young lads for that cut-throat world out there.’

Every Thursday at Fleetwood, a staff game takes place. Eight-a-side, first team versus academy.

‘They haven’t beaten us yet because we have about 1,500 league appearances between us and they have 200,’ laughed Barton.

One senses Barton loves the cut and thrust of it but it’s indicative of a culture, too. Some clubs keep the academy boys separate from the pros, the theory being that it acts as an incentive for the young players to improve.

Barton has selected two 16-year-olds — James Hill and Dylan Boyle — in cup competitions

‘No, it’s important to me they mix every day,’ he said, firmly. ‘If not, first-team players can become mythical characters that live in some mythical place far away and when the young lads go there they freeze. The reality is that they are just normal people.

‘I spent some time at Saracens rugby and Owen Farrell was there with their next fly-half. It made absolute sense.

‘Seeing how experienced players eat, train and live will not harm young boys. They see them staying out doing set-pieces after training. We like to give the lads those pictures.

‘The chores, the cleaning boots, it all helps and football should never lose that.’

NOT everyone believes in the culture of academies, especially the facilities in the Premier League. Perfect pitches and perfect environments don’t always lead to perfect lives. One of the problems comes when young players don’t make the grade.

‘The big clubs are trying to produce players for the Premier League,’ said Donnelly.

‘Many of them will trickle down to our level and then 99 per cent of them will be out of the game as they can’t adjust.

‘Top-level boys are getting silly money in their first contracts. So when they come down here where it’s not silly money do they have the motivation to still play? Can they deal with the tough side of it where men are playing to pay mortgages? Most of them can’t.’

At Fleetwood, 25 of the academy boys live together in a converted hotel in Blackpool. It’s a unique set-up.

A category-three academy, it has scored highly in terms of expertise and facilities but will only reach level two when it produces more first-team players. ‘We can’t rush that as we are still young,’ added Donnelly. ‘Scholarship programmes get stick but at our level I think it produces good lads who can go on and succeed in life, even if it’s not in football.’

Facilities are better than when Barton came through. But what the 36-year-old feels all young players must have is the hunger that drove him through hard early days at City.

Going into Saturday's game at Plymouth Argyle, Fleetwood are currently 12th in League One

Does a cosseted life at a Premier League academy necessarily nurture that? It is hard to say.

‘It’s vital for me to learn about the kids and create pathways for them but to make sure they don’t get too much too soon because that’s dangerous,’ he said.

‘When I was a kid I was always catching up, always behind everyone. I was physically less developed. So I was always hungry for success because my belly was always empty.

‘Only when I signed for Newcastle did I think, “S***, I won’t ever have to work again”, and I really struggled with that.

‘When you have been striving since the age of nine and you get to 24 and you have “made it”, then it throws you.

‘So it comes back to resilience and love of the game. You have to have both and that’s what I need to make sure the boys have here. Through good and bad, it is this that will keep you in the game.’

For Barton, obligations in his first managerial post are wide. He is committed to the development of players but he must win games too.

Going into Saturday’s game at Plymouth Argyle, Fleetwood are 12th in League One.

‘Pressure is the narrative in English football, isn’t it?’ he smiled. ‘It sells ads and makes people sit up. Turmoil sells.

‘But we have a duty to give kids the right tool-kit. We hope they get to use it at the top level but it has to be useful lower down the leagues as well because that is where many will end up.

‘That is where I thought I might end up. If you don’t make it at a Premier League academy with their fantastic pitches and you are forced to play on a cold night in League Two because that’s where you have been loaned, everything you have trained for since the age of nine goes through the window.

‘What is your Plan B? Do you have one? What is your resilience? We will not expose our kids to that risk. If nothing else, they will leave here prepared.’

====== 2508 ========

DENMARK U-21S 1-5 ENGLAND U-21S: DOMINIC SOLANKE AND DOMINIC CALVERT-LEWIN STAR IN DOMINANT WIN

Whatever frustrations Dominic Solanke is experiencing with Liverpool are proving no barrier to his ambitions of becoming England’s main man.

Solanke is one of the brightest talents in a pool of gifted Under-21 players but he is in the wilderness at Anfield.

He has not played a single minute for Jurgen Klopp this season – his last involvement in the squad was on September 26 – and the Football Association are anxious about his inactivity.

Demarai Gray slots home to open the scoring after Phil Foden's defence-splitting pass

A second goal comes shortly after as Dominic Solanke rises highest to steer his header home

It says much for his talent, then, that he can produce football of this quality off such an absence. On a freezing night on Denmark’s west coast, Solanke scored two superb goals in a 5-1 demolition; his second was an extravagant back heel and his performance had Aidy Boothroyd purring.

MATCH FACTS ENGLAND (4-3-3) Henderson 6: Walker-Peters 7 (Tomori 72mins 6), Konza 6.5, Simpson 6.5, DaSilva 7 (Kelly 60mins 6): Dowell 7, Cook 7 (Davies 72mins 6), Foden 7.5 (Calvert-Lewin 60mins 8): Nelson 6.5, Solanke 8.5, Gray 7.5 (Sessegnon 72mins 6) GOALS: Gray (32), Solanke (39, 47), Ingvartsen (41), Calvert-Lewin (81, 86 pen) Attendance: 4558

‘He has got Tammy Abraham and Dominic Calvert-Lewin who are right on his toes,’ said the Under-21’s head coach.

‘They are getting regular games for their clubs, too. They are all really talented but for Dom to come in after playing no games and do that? It’s brilliant.’

This was his second double of the international break, coming on the back of his exploits in a 2-1 victory over Italy in Ferrara last Thursday.

It reinforced the belief that Solanke will be the key figure if England are going to be successful when they return to Italy for Euro 2019.

The game against Denmark was England’s thirteenth game of the calendar year but it never threatened to be unlucky.

With his back to goal, Solanke produces a remarkable improvised finish for his second

Leicester's Gray registered his seventh goal in 20 appearances for the England Under-21 side

It was quite the opposite; this performance was even more complete than the one here 20 months ago when Ruben Loftus-Cheek inspired a 4-0 demolition.

On top from the start, the only surprise was that it took England 32 minutes to score. The breakthrough came when Manchester City tyro Phil Foden slipped the kind of beautifully weighted pass that will become his trademark into Leicester forward Demarai Gray, who finished with ease.

Denmark were visibly deflated and fell further behind to a wonderful goal, which Sheffield United goalkeeper Dean Henderson started; six passes later, Everton winger Kieran Dowell crossed from the byline for Solanke, who planted a firm header past Denmark’s Daniel Iversen.

Dominic Calvert-Lewin's brace from the bench added gloss to the scoreline for England

Such is England's strength in depth that Fulham starlet Ryan Sessegnon started on the bench

Reiss Nelson, on loan at Hoffenheim from Arsenal, was a constant thorn and set up a goal

A moment of sloppiness enabled Denmark to quickly pull a goal back as Marcus Ingvartsen pounced but any hopes of a second half comeback were snuffed out immediately after the restart when Solanke reacted first, back heeling past Iversen after Foden’s shot had been parried.

Chances started to arrive at such frequency that you expected Solanke to complete his hat-trick but, in the end, the rout was completed by substitute Calvert-Lewin, who scored twice in five minutes, the second of which was a penalty – that Solanke could have taken – after he had been fouled.

Having won a penalty, Calvert-Lewin steps up to fire home his second goal of the match

England are now preparing for next summer's Under-21 European Championships

‘He is egoless,’ Boothroyd said of Solanke. ‘It is refreshing to see a player who has that much talent with that much humility. I’m delighted for him.’

With players such as Solanke, Calvert-Lewin and Foden at his disposal, Boothroyd is entitled to feel that 2019 will prove even better.

The draw for the tournament is made on Friday. Nobody will want to face England.

‘Their coach said to me “see you in the summer”,’ Boothroyd said with smile. ‘He then said “well, hopefully not!”

'It’s a nice compliment but we won’t be getting complacent. If we tighten up on one or two things, we will be in a good position.’

====== 2509 ========

FANS FLOCK TO WATCH NEYMAR AND BRAZIL SUPERSTARS TAKE CENTRE STAGE AGAINST CAMEROON IN MILTON KEYNES

The Samba Kings, iconic yellow shirts (blue on this occasion) and the footballing royalty that is Brazil in... Milton Keynes.

If it was a dream, you'd laugh it off as soon as you woke up but for the record 29,669 fans at Stadium MK, it seemed a bizarre yet strangely uplifting reality.

Cameroon boss and legendary midfielder Clarence Seedorf in one dug-out, Tite and his bench of superstars on the other and the world's most expensive player, wrapped up in a full-tracksuit and gloves dancing around the pitch for the warm-up, where to look?

This young supporter in a Manchester United hat wanted to take home Neymar's shirt

But the striker was forced off injured just eight minutes into the friendly contest

The answer for most was in Neymar's direction. Sportsmail's Amitai Winehouse at Stadium MK noted: 'The biggest cheer when the teams are read out went to, unsurprisingly, Neymar.

'Every child in the wider Milton Keynes area was gathered pitchside hoping beyond hope for a photo.'

Neymar had never been to this, the city of 130 roundabouts before, but headed full circle down the tunnel after being forced off injured just eight minutes in.

The League Two ground hummed in excitement as he trotted out for his warm-up but they were bitterly disappointed after the £198million man shook his head and trudged off with a thigh strain as he was replaced by Richarlison.

This fan came with a cardboard sign for Alisson and wanted to come away with his gloves

For those in attendance however, this exhibition was a chance to see some of the world's best in action and there was still plenty of talent on show.

Many of children in the crowd came armed with signs, asking for some precious merchandise.

One was after Liverpool goalkeeper Alisson's gloves, although the stopper was on the bench with Ederson starting.

The game drew huge interest from the local population as they came in their hoards

The crowd were rewarded for their patience by Richarlison's emphatic opening goal

If those holding Brazil flags were subdued when Neymar went off, they renewed their fervour when his replacement Richarlison ended the first half by scoring a thumping header.

Unfortunately for the record crowd in Stadium:MK that was the only goal of the game but there were flashes of brilliance with both teams playing at an impressive enough tempo for a friendly.

But the excitement wasn't enough for some, as two youngsters ran onto the pitch after the full time whistle was blown.

And the hubbub continued long after the match, with Roberto Firmino and Fabinho having to sneak out of the back entrance with Paulinho and Danilo because there was a risk they’d be mobbed going out of the front.

====== 2510 ========

DIEGO SIMEONE AND HIS GLAMOROUS GIRLFRIEND CARLA HIT LONDON ON INTERNATIONAL BREAK VISIT

With most of his squad away on international duty, Atletico Madrid manager Diego Simeone has been enjoying a bit of down time in London.

The Argentine and his glamorous girlfriend Carla Pereyra seemed to have a fit of the giggles as they jumped into their car outside the trendy Chiltern Firehouse after they dined there over the weekend.

With his Atletico side just one point off leaders Barcelona in the La Liga standings, Simeone has every reason to be cheerful - and they're on course to progress in the Champions League as well.

Atletico Madrid manager Diego Simeone and girlfriend Carla Pereyra visit Notting Hill and Portabello Market during their visit to London

Atletico Madrid manager Diego Simeone and his girlfriend Carla Pereyra are all smiles as they leave the Chiltern Firehouse restaurant in London over the weekend

Simeone and his partner enjoyed a few days in London during the international break

Glamorous Pereyra leads Simeone by the hand as they dined at the swanky Marylebone venue

The couple and their daughter Francesca have been enjoying a few days in London

Earlier, the couple had strolled through Notting Hill and visited the famous Portabello Market, with Simeone donning a pair of shades to ensure he wasn't spotted.

And Pereyra posted a smiley family snap with daughter Francesca as they prepared to fly back to Madrid from Heathrow Airport.

It will be back to the training ground grind for Simeone following his well-earned break as Atletico prepare for their crunch clash with Barcelona this Saturday night.

From there, they host Monaco in the Champions League next Wednesday as they aim to take another step towards the Champions League knockout stages.

Pereyra posted this cute Instagram snap with Simeone and their daughter Francesca as they waited at Heathrow Airport for their flight back to Madrid

Pereyra posted this Instagram snap during their weekend visit to the Chiltern Firehouse

Simeone's trip to London comes amid uncertainty over whether he will commit to a new contract with Atletico, whom he has guided to two Champions League finals since 2011 as well as a league title and two Europa Leagues.

Reports had suggested that Simeone is in negotiations with the club over a lucrative contract extension, but these have since been denied.

A club spokesperson told ESPN FC: 'There are no open negotiations yet for Simeone's new contract and the harmony between club and coach is total.

'Both sides consider that now is not the moment to sit down and talk.'

His existing deal expires in June 2020 and Atletico are keen to extend his contract considering the progress made over recent years.

The couple dined at popular celeb haunt Chiltern Firehouse in London over the weekend

Simeone will turn his attention to preparing his Atletico side for Saturday's Barcelona game

Simeone's Atletico Madrid side will go top of La Liga if they beat leaders Barcelona at home

The Chiltern Firehouse, in Marylebone, is situated in a converted fire station and is well established as a celebrity hang-out, offering fine dining as well as hotel rooms.

Located in a Grade II listed gothic Victorian building, guests are led through attractive garden courtyards to their tables by top-hatted doormen.

Michelin-starred chef Nuno Mendes serves up a menu of European and American favourites with the current offerings including Iberico pork, BBQ venison chop, Hereford beef fillet and roasted sea bass.

Among the celebrities spotted there are David Beckham, Kate Moss, Lily Allen, Orlando Bloom and Simon Cowell.

====== 2511 ========

CARLING CASTS A WATCHFUL EYE AS ENGLAND TRAIN AHEAD OF AUSTRALIA CLASH

England stepped up their preparations to face Australia on Tuesday - without Chris Ashton but with Will Carling watching on at Pennyhill Park.

Ashton will miss this Saturday's showdown at Twickenham after it was confirmed on Tuesday that he would not recover from a calf injury in time.

The 31-year-old was forced to miss training on Tuesday morning after undergoing a scan on the injury he picked up in the first half of England's 35-15 victory over Japan.

England's rugby stars went through some resistance training at Pennyhill Park on Tuesday

Will Carling, who has joined the backroom staff as a leadership mentor, watched the session

Owen Farrell (L) and Ben Te'o were among those to be put through their paces on Tuesday

In his absence, the rest of Eddie Jones's squad were put through their paces under the watchful eye of Carling.

The former England captain has been drafted into the backroom staff as a leadership mentor and he watched as Owen Farrell and Co went through resistance training at Pennyhill Park.

Jonny May and Jack Nowell were also among those who trained on Tuesday and they are now favourites to line-up on the wings when Australia visit Twickenham.

Midfield partners Farrell and Te'o partnered up for some of the physical drills on Tuesday

Jack Nowell (L) and Elliot Daly (R) were also among the players to be put through their paces

But Joe Cokanasiga is also an option after making a promising debut against Japan.

Manu Tuilagi, however, is also unlikely to be involved on Saturday as he continues his battle for full fitness but the Leicester centre remains with the squad.

Ashton, meanwhile, has seen his international comeback stall after making three appearances this autumn.

Ashton became available for England once more when he left Toulon for Sale over the summer but so far he has been limited to one appearance for the Sharks after incurring a seven-week ban for a tip tackle.

He was drafted straight into Jones's squad for the autumn and profited when Tuilagi was ruled out of the opener against South Africa because of a groin strain.

Daly and Nowell are both set to start in England's autumn finale against the Wallabies

Spirits seemed high in the England camp ahead of the climax of autumn international series

====== 2512 ========

PFA CHIEF EXECUTIVE GORDON TAYLOR FEELING THE STRAIN AS HE ARRIVES AT MANCHESTER HQ

Gordon Taylor arrived at PFA headquarters in Manchester on Tuesday afternoon looking under strain.

He is at the centre of a storm over his recent treatment of PFA chairman Ben Purkiss, having delayed the annual general meeting due to issues over his non-contract status.

That has flagged up a number of problems at the PFA, which appear to be taking a toll on the 73-year-old.

Gordon Taylor arrives at the Manchester headquarters of the PFA on Tuesday afternoon

Taylor is at the centre of a storm over his attempts to remove PFA chairman Ben Purkiss

That has led to Taylor's long period of leadership at the PFA coming under scrutiny

Taylor appeared slightly unsteady as he climbed out of his Range Rover on arrival at the headquarters.

They have been his workplace for the last 40-years, having joined the PFA following the conclusion of his own sporting career.

He was greeted at the entrance to the building by deputy chief executive John Bramhall. The pair exchanged a few words before he walked into the building.

The PFA's next multi-million-pound funding deal with the Premier League is at risk amid concern over the conduct of chief executive Taylor, Sportsmail revealed on Monday night.

The players' union receive £25million a year from the league and have been expecting a similar sum in a new three-year deal from next season, which coincides with a new £4.46billion TV deal.

Though talks are under way, the Premier League are yet to sign up to the new deal and may first want clarity about the way Taylor is running the organisation. It is possible the PFA may receive less money.

There is likely to be alarm at the Premier League over a Sportsmail investigation which has found that Taylor has not stood for re-election in nearly 40 years, in what appears to be a clear breach of both strict trade union rules and the PFA's own rulebook, and is now embroiled in a bitter power battle with PFA chairman Purkiss.

Taylor slams the door of his Range Rover as he walks towards the entrance of the building

The 73-year-old knows the PFA's next funding deal with the Premier League is under threat

The Premier League's huge pay-out to the union — which represents most of its income and funds Taylor's £2.29m salary — was first secured when he threatened to bring the players out on strike in 1992.

It has risen from £8m back then, with incoming Premier League chief executive Richard Scudamore also made aware of the threat of strike action.

But with Taylor looking increasingly discredited, the likelihood of players refusing to play on his orders now seems extremely remote.

His call that players unite behind him to ensure a good Premier League deal — which has always helped stave off challenges to his authority — may also fall on deaf ears given the growing animosity towards the 73-year-old.

The Premier League may want clarity over the way Taylor runs the PFA before the next deal

Taylor was greeted by the PFA's deputy chief executive John Bramhall on Tuesday afternoon

The Premier League are likely to want evidence that an organisation they give such a substantial sum of money to has a clear election process.

The league has already taken back control of the money it hands out to the union, by specifying how it wants a significant majority of the £25m to be spent — on grants for players forced to retire early through injury, education grants and welfare schemes.

This means the league, which often incurs criticism for not putting enough back in, allowing the union all the credit for money which it is providing.

Much of the money which is available to be used at the PFA's discretion goes towards Taylor's wages, which have risen in line with the Premier League TV deals — from £900,000 in 2009, to £1.3m in 2016 and the current £2.29m.

Purkiss' demands for an independent review of the PFA's activity is likely to appeal to the Premier League, as it would bring the union in line with other leading sports governance organisations.

The position of the 34-year-old Walsall defender appears to be growing stronger ahead of what could be a hugely significant PFA management committee meeting on Thursday.

====== 2513 ========

ALL BLACKS GET DOWN TO WORK IN ROME AHEAD OF CLASH AGAINST ITALY

New Zealand got down to work ahead of their final autumn international against Italy at the weekend as they look to bounce back from their Irish nightmare.

Steve Hansen's side face Italy in Rome at the Stadio Olimpico on Saturday afternoon.

The All Blacks hit the gym on Monday but were put through their paces out on the field in the Italian capital on Tuesday.

The All Blacks warm up during a training session in Rome ahead of the clash against Italy

Jack Goodhue is tackled during New Zealand's training session on Tuesday in Rome, Italy

(L-R) Coaching staff Scott McLeod, Steve Hansen and Ian Foster of New Zealand during session

ALL BLACKS' AUTUMN INTERNATIONALS (W) 69-31 vs Japan (W) 16-15 vs England (L) 16-9 vs Ireland

Kieran Read, Beauden Barrett and Co took part in the session at their training base in Rome.

New Zealand will be looking to bounce back from their 16-9 defeat by Ireland in Dublin last weekend.

Barrett scored a drop goal and two penalties at the Aviva Stadium last Saturday.

Scott Barrett of the All Blacks collects the ball in the lineout during training on Tuesday

Kieran Read and Co took part in the session at their training base in Rome ahead of Italy match

Beauden Barrett practises his kicking ahead of New Zealand's final autumn international

Prior to that loss the All Blacks beat Japan 69-31 and secured a narrow 16-15 victory over Eddie Jones' England side at Twickenham.

Italy, who are ranked 14th in the world, have suffered two defeats in their three autumn internationals.

They lost 54-7 to Ireland, 26-7 to Australia but beat Georgia 28-17 on November 10.

====== 2514 ========

ENGLAND NO 1 JORDAN PICKFORD DELIGHTS GIG-GOERS BY SINGING ALONG TO GARETH SOUTHGATE CHANT

A day after helping his country reach the inaugural Nations League Finals, Jordan Pickford further endeared himself to England fans - by singing about his manager.

The Everton goalkeeper was caught on camera enjoying himself at a Courteeners gig in Nottingham on Monday night, a little over 24 hours after playing in the Three Lions' decisive 2-1 victory over Croatia at Wembley.

Gig-goers were quick to serenade the popular shot-stopper with a chant of 'There's only one Jordan Pickford', before voicing their support for Gareth Southgate.

England No 1 Jordan Pickford sings about Gareth Southgate at a Courteeners gig on Monday

The Everton keeper helped England beat Croatia in the Nations League on Sunday afternoon

If you want to see a video of Jordan Pickford in Nottingham at courteeners singing the Gareth Southgate chant here you go pic.twitter.com/QeyXfBtLm4 — Reilly (@ReillyPhoenix) November 20, 2018

SOUTHGATE SONG LYRICS 'Looking back on when we first met, I cannot escape and I cannot forget. 'Southgate, you're the one. You still turn me on, football's coming home again'

Singing to the tune of Atomic Kitten's 'Whole Again', those at the Rock City belted out the catchy number - with Pickford making sure to join in.

The former Sunderland keeper was filmed singing along to the chant, which was created during England's memorable run to last summer's World Cup semi-finals in Russia.

In one clip uploaded to Twitter, Pickford can be seen with both arms outstretched, singing the line 'Southgate you're the one, you still turn me on'.

England boss Southgate congratulates Pickford after reaching the Nations Legaue Finals

Pickford spent his night watching The Courteeners, pictured performing in Sheffield in April

The 24-year-old has a strong relationship with the Three Lions boss after he made him his No 1 ahead of Jack Butland and Nick Pope for the World Cup.

Pickford repaid Southgate with a series of impressive displays during the tournament, notably saving a penalty in a last 16 shootout win over Colombia.

He has retained his place since Russia, helping England top their Nations League group ahead of Croatia and Spain and reach next year's semi-finals.

====== 2515 ========

MANNY PACQUIAO GETS THE GIGGLES DURING FIRST FACE-OFF WITH NEXT OPPONENT ADRIAN BRONER

Often a picture of focus and determination, Manny Pacquiao lost his cool this week after being hit by a fit of the giggles during his first face-to-face with upcoming opponent Adrian Broner.

The Pac Man squared off against the brash American in New York City, but could only get up close and personal for a matter of seconds before a large smirk broke out across his face.

The Filipino, now 39, quickly had to turn away to avoid full blown laughter, while Broner also managed a smile and was seen shaking his head in apparent disbelief.

Manny Pacquiao lost his cool this week during his face-to-face with Adrian Broner

The Pac Man immediately burst into giggles and had to look away from the American

Broner looked slightly puzzled as Pacquiao had to turn away whilst continuing to smirk

The pair then turned to face the cameras and pose with clenched fists in New York

Both boxers then turned front and centre to face the cameras head on, posing with fists clenched as the waiting media snapped away.

Broner will provide the opposition for Pac Man's WBA world welterweight title in Las Vegas on January 19.

Pacquiao had been linked with a rematch with Floyd Mayweather - who he famously shared the ring with in 2015 - but he will instead face a former world champion once tipped as 'Money's' heir to the boxing throne.

'I just want to prove that I’m still in boxing and my career is continuing. I just want to entertain people and give them a good show on January 19,' Pacquiao said at a press conference to announce the MGM Grand showdown on Monday.

'We have to work hard and train hard for this fight so the people will be happy on January 19.'

Pacquiao was hoping to land a lucrative rematch with Floyd Mayweather, who beat him in 2015

Broner returns to the ring on the back of a majority draw against Jessie Vargas this year

He added: 'I want to fight the greatest opponents, the greatest fighters in the world and one of them is Adrien Broner.'

'The things he's done in this game are unbelievable. I talk s***, but I know on January 19 I know I have to be on my game,' said Broner, who returns to the ring for the first time since drawing with Jessie Vargas in April.

'But I'm here to f*** him up, I ain't going to lie.'

====== 2516 ========

PAUL POGBA ‘TELLS JUVENTUS PLAYERS’ HE WANTS RETURN TO SERIE A GIANTS

Juventus could step up their pursuit of Paul Pogba in January amid growing belief that the Manchester United man is eager to return to Serie A.

According to reports in Italy, Pogba hinted to Juventus players that he is prepared to rejoin the club and was buoyed by the warm welcome he received during United's 2-1 Champions League win at the Allianz Stadium in November.

And Corriere dello Sport report that Juventus could move for Pogba as early as the new year.

Paul Pogba pictured arriving at Manchester United's training base on Tuesday morning

Juventus could try and bring Pogba back to the club in the January transfer window

Pogba received a warm reception from Juventus fans at the Allianz Stadium earlier this month

The Serie A leaders are encouraged not only by the noises from Pogba's camp but also by a change in UEFA rules meaning the France international would not be cup-tied from the Champions League if he moved mid-season.

Juventus are also uncertain when Emre Can will return from surgery to treat a thyroid nodule.

They hope the Germany midfielder will be back by mid-December but cannot guarantee when he will return to full fitness.

Pogba himself is sidelined by a thigh problem that has caused him to miss the current round of international fixtures with France.

United manager Jose Mourinho explained that it was Pogba's participation in the game against Juventus that aggravated the problem.

Reports in Italy say that Pogba told Juventus players he is keen to return to the club

Pogba got injured in the game against Juventus and has not played for United since

Speaking about Pogba's absence from United's last game against rivals Manchester City, Mourinho said: 'Paul is injured. He was injured during the game in Turin. He resisted.

'He felt that he could resist. He felt that was such a crucial match for the team. He made that sacrifice for us and then it was impossible for him to recover for this.'

The 25-year-old has instead been in Dubai, spending time with Lionel Messi as they were entertained by celebrity chef Salt Bae.

Pogba and Mourinho have become distanced over the last 18 months, with the United boss stripping the midfielder of the United vice-captaincy earlier this season.

France international Pogba has publicly insisted that he is happy playing for United

Pogba had the vice-captaincy taken off of him by United manager Jose Mourinho

But publicly, Pogba insisted he is happy at Old Trafford when he faced the media prior to United's match at Juventus.

'It didn't affect me,' Pogba said of the vice-captaincy. 'I'm still playing and I'm really happy to play, The manager is the one who chooses who is captain. I was the second one after (Antonio) Valencia. Then if he takes the armband it doesn't change anything for me.

'I just want to play, perform, that's my job and give my best for my team and for everybody, for the fans, for the club. It didn't really touch me, didn't affect me. Nothing changed really.'

====== 2517 ========

VIRGIL VAN DIJK EMBRACES TEARFUL REFEREE WHOSE MOTHER HAD RECENTLY PASSED AWAY

Holland captain Virgil van Dijk consoled a tearful referee at the end of his side's thrilling match with Germany after learning that the official's mother had died.

TV cameras captured the touching moment between Van Dijk and referee Ovidiu Hategan in Gelsenkirchen, Germany, on Monday evening after the defender secured a draw for his side.

As his Holland team-mates were celebrating around him, Van Dijk was seen walking over to the match official, who had gone about his work despite the recent bereavement.

Hategan's mother had passed away in the build up to Monday night's fixture, and Van Dijk wanted to share a few words of comfort after the referee shared his grief.

Scroll down for video

Virgil van Dijk went straight over to referee Ovidiu Hategan following Holland's draw

The Dutch captain consoled the referee, who had lost his mother prior to the match

Hategan appeared to be full of emotion and holding back tears as Van Dijk spoke to him

The Liverpool defender later revealed he told the ref he had done well and wished him strength

Referee Ovidiu Hategan recently lost his mother. Right after the FT whistle Virgil van Dijk went towards him to comfort him, while crying. This is beautiful.



pic.twitter.com/NnHJMGCCGO — AFC Ajax 💫 (@TheEuropeanLad) November 19, 2018

The pair exchanged words, before Van Dijk put his arm around the match official and pulled him into a tight embrace.

'He told me his mom recently passed away. He broke down and started crying. I consoled him and told him he refereed well. Its a small thing, but I hope it helped,' Van Dijk said in the aftermath of the game.

'I wished him strength and said that he had done well.'

Hategan, a 38-year-old Romanian referee hailing from Arad, became a FIFA-standard official in 2008.

Hategan, a 38-year-old official from Arad in Romania, became a FIFA-standard ref in 2008

In a journeying career across football, Hategan entered public consciousness in 2013 when he was accused of failing to follow correct protocol regarding incidents of a racist nature during a match at the Khimki Arena between Manchester City and CSKA Moscow.

In 2017 he was accused of 'baffling' decisions in the World Cup play-off between Northern Ireland and Switzerland, in a game which prompted Ireland boss Michael O'Neill to brand a penalty awarded to the Swiss 'the worst decision I've ever seen.'

Monday's fixture was the first Nations League tie officiated by Hategan, who also has three previous UEFA Champions League games to his name.

Van Dijk was the hero on the pitch as he helped Holland salvage a last gasp point against Germany to progress in the UEFA Nations League.

The captain was the hero after volleying home in extra time to salvage a draw for Holland

Van Dijk's late goal meant his nation qualified for the semi-finals stage of the Nations League

Van Dijk was the man of the moment after volleying home in the first minute of stoppage time, to see his nation progress to the semi-finals of the tournament.

Holland had fallen two goals behind in the game, and looked set to see their recent run of good form come to an end.

Timo Werner opened the scoring for the hosts, before Manchester City's Leroy Sane slotted home a second.

Holland stayed resilient however, finding a way back into the contest and a glimmer of hope courtesy of Quincy Promes.

It was in the final moments of the tie when Van Dijk showed his captain capabilities, taking up position in the opposition box as a cross was swung in.

The Liverpool man popped up in the box in stoppage time and expertly slotted home a volley

Legendary goalkeeper Manuel Neuer could only look on in despair as the ball hit the net

Germany initially appeared to have cleared the danger, only for the ball to drop around the penalty spot and be expertly volleyed home by the waiting Van Dijk.

'We played a very good first half and should have scored a third in the second half to finish the game,' said under-fire Germany boss Joachim Low in the aftermath of the game.

'But this kind of thing seems to be the story of our entire year.'

====== 2518 ========

LIONEL MESSI ARRIVES BACK IN BARCELONA AFTER SPENDING INTERNATIONAL BREAK IN DUBAI

After a relaxing few days in Dubai over the international break, Lionel Messi and his family touched down back in Barcelona late on Monday night.

The Nou Camp superstar enjoyed a fairly low-key arrival as he wore a hood and carried his son Mateo, but he was stopped for a few photos by adoring fans.

His partner Antonella carried their youngest child Ciro, born in March, while their eldest Thiago walked alongside.

Lionel Messi carries his son Mateo out of Barcelona Airport after they arrived back from Dubai

His partner Antonella carried their youngest son Ciro following the arrival back on Spanish soil

The high-profile pair were joined by a few helping hands as they headed home after their trip

The family of five have been in Abu Dhabi making the most of some warm weather away from Europe, with Messi posting a picture of a water park over the weekend.

The Argentinian also enjoyed some time with Manchester United midfielder Paul Pogba, after the pair were pictured together at a restaurant.

They were entertained by culinary celebrity Salt Bae, and his famous sprinkling technique, while Manchester United's Ashley Young also made an appearance.

Messi will now begin preparations for Barcelona's huge game with Atletico Madrid on Saturday

The weather will feel significantly colder in Barcelona after a few warm days in sunny Dubai

Messi and his Barcelona team-mates will now begin preparations for a huge clash with Atletico Madrid on Saturday night.

Barcelona are top of La Liga but following a defeat last time out, third-placed Atletico are now hot on their heels and only one point behind.

Sevilla and unlikely rivals Alaves are also on 23 points with Atletico, while Real Madrid and their new manager Santiago Solari are back in sixth.

Barcelona superstar Messi shakes hands with Turkish culinary celebrity Salt Bae in Dubai

====== 2519 ========

ANDY ROBERTSON REVEALS HE NEARLY JOINED STOKE INSTEAD OF LIVERPOOL

Andy Robertson has revealed that he came close to joining Stoke instead of Liverpool when he made the move from Hull.

Robertson departed the KCOM Stadium in the summer of 2017 to join Jurgen Klopp's Liverpool, who reached the Champions League final in the left back's first season at the club.

However, things could have turned out very differently for the Scotland international prior to his £8million move to Anfield.

Andy Robertson has revealed that he almost joined Stoke prior to moving to Liverpool in 2017

Robertson made the revelation while speaking to Youtube football channel 'Open Goal'

Robertson, speaking to Youtube football channel 'Open Goal', has sensationally claimed he held brief talks with Stoke as he looked to move away from Hull following their relegation to the Championship.

'Stoke were quite interested in me. Mark Hughes had liked me and I think there was a wee bit of chat with them,' Robertson revealed.

'So I was thinking they were a really good option; I think they finished top 10 that season and I was trying to get my head on a move to Stoke.

Robertson admitted that Mark Hughes had 'liked' him during his time as Stoke manager

'I was thinking they were really keen, and at that point under Mark Hughes they were playing good football. They had Erik Pieters; I wasn't sure if I was going in as back-up to him as he was flying that season.'

And he certainly made the right choice. In Robertson's first season at Liverpool, he made the left back position his own, impressing throughout the campaign as they reached the Champions League final before losing to Real Madrid.

Meanwhile, Stoke were relegated from the Premier League after a 10-year stay, picking up just 33 points all season.

====== 2520 ========

MANNY PACQUIAO TO DEFEND WORLD TITLE AGAINST ADRIEN BRONER AFTER MAYWEATHER REMATCH FAILURE

Eight-weight world champion Manny Pacquiao will return to the ring on January 19 against brash American Adrien Broner.

The two fighters will collide for Pac Man's WBA world welterweight title in Las Vegas on January 19.

Pacquiao, now 39, had been linked with a rematch with Floyd Mayweather, but he will instead face a former world champion once tipped as 'Money's' heir to the boxing throne.

Manny Pacquiao will return to the ring on January 19 against brash American Adrien Broner

'I just want to entertain people and give them a good show on January 19,' Pacquiao said

MANNY PACQUIAO Age: 39 Wins: 60 Losses: 7 Draws: 2 Wins by KO: 39 Height/Reach: 5ft 5.5in/67in

ADRIEN BRONER Age: 29 Wins: 33 Losses: 3 Draws: 1 Wins by KO: 24 Height/Reach: 5ft 6in/69in

'I just want to prove that I’m still in boxing and my career is continuing. I just want to entertain people and give them a good show on January 19,' Pacquiao said at a press conference to announce the MGM Grand showdown on Monday.

'We have to work hard and train hard for this fight so the people will be happy on January 19.'

He added: 'I want to fight the greatest opponents, the greatest fighters in the world and one of them is Adrien Broner.'

Broner has won world titles at four different weights but has struggled with discipline both in and out of the ring.

Broner returns to the ring on the back of a majority draw against Jessie Vargas this year

He returns to the ring for the first since drawing with Jessie Vargas in April and knows he must be at his best to dethrone Pacquiao and win another world title.

'The things he's done in this game are unbelievable. I talk s***, but I know on January 19 I know I have to be on my game,' he said. 'But I'm here to f*** him up, I ain't going to lie.'

'I'm not playing,' he added. 'I feel like a bum trying to fight for a sandwich, I swear to God.'

After securing his first knockout in nine years with victory over Lucas Matthysse in July, Pacquiao told his fans to expect 'more action in the ring' at the MGM Grand.

He addressed the touted rematch with Mayweather, to whom he lost in boxing's richest fight in 2015.

Pacquiao was hoping to land a lucrative rematch with Floyd Mayweather, who beat him in 2015

'I chose Adrien Broner because I believe we can have a good fight and entertain the fans. Adrien Broner is a good boxer, we cannot underestimate him,' the Filipino said.

'Floyd, when we met in Japan, we talked and he said he wanted to come out of retirement to fight me, to challenge me, but I told him I had a belt and you have to challenge me.'

He added: 'I'm a person that doesn't want to trash talk, just to fight. All I know is fighting in the ring and giving excitement and entertaining people. That's my job. '

'But if Floyd comes out of retirement lets see after this fight, we cannot underestimate Adrien Broner, I have to get through this fight first before we discuss the rematch with Floyd Mayweather.'

Broner dismissed talk of his former mentor, Mayweather, firing back: 'F*** Floyd, no disrespect but he ain't fighting Floyd, he's fighting me, I'm about to beat your motherf****** ass, why are you worrying about Floyd?'





====== 2521 ========

MBAPPE REVEALS NEYMAR IS JOKING ABOUT HIS ON-PITCH BUST-UP WITH CAVANI

Kylian Mbappe has revealed that Neymar saw the funny side of his most recent bust-up with Paris Saint-Germain team-mate Edinson Cavani.

Tempers flared during Friday's friendly match between Brazil and Uruguay at the Emirates Stadium when Cavani produced a lunging tackle on the Brazilian star in the closing stages of the game.

Cavani received a yellow card for the tackle before Neymar rejected the Uruguayan's attempt to help him back to his feet. Cavani then threw the ball at him in response to his theatrical response.

Scroll down for video

Kylian Mbappe has revealed that Neymar saw the funny side of his clash with Edinson Cavani

Cavani produced a lunging tackle on the Brazilian star in the closing stages of their friendly

Mbappe, who is also away on international duty with France, has revealed he got in touch with his Brazilian colleague with a video of the incident.

'Edinson is always up for the game, so there is no need to give him extra motivation for matches,' the 19-year-old told reporters. 'He is a great player and having him with us at PSG does us a lot of good.

'I sent Neymar a video of his clash with Edinson via WhatsApp and he just laughed in response, so that says it all. It was nothing, it was a duel and they were defending their countries. They both gave everything, which you have to do when you go for the ball, and contact is a part of the game - that is all.

'This will not stop them from hugging and making up at PSG and then scoring goals together once we are back with PSG. There is no problem.'

Cavani received a yellow card for the tackle after also shouting at referee Craig Pawson

The Uruguayan striker then walked over to Neymar to try and help him back onto his feet

When Neymar rejected his offer, Cavani threw the ball to the floor in front of his PSG colleague

Cavani also moved to play down the clash immediately afterwards. He said: 'Things happen on the pitch that raise the temperature, but we reflect after the match and things go back to normal.'

Neymar was also quick to end any sign of hostility, responding: 'What did [Cavani] say? He said nothing. Either that, or I did not hear what he said.'

It is not the first time the pair have been involved in an on-field spat. The world-record signing appeared to rub Cavani up the wrong way following his high-profile arrival at the Parc des Princes when the pair were caught in a squabble over spot kick duties.

They initially fell out in September 2017 after a public spat over who would take a penalty against Lyon. Neymar was seen remonstrating with Cavani as they both stood over the spot arguing, having earlier disagreed over the taking of a set-piece.

Cavani failed to score from the spot after demanding to take it but insists the duo have since come to 'an understanding'.

====== 2522 ========

LIONEL MESSI BRILLIANTLY RESPONDS TO CLAIMS HE WOULDN'T SHINE ON A COLD NIGHT IN STOKE

Lionel Messi has given the perfect response to dispel any doubts he wouldn't be able to do the business on a cold Tuesday night in Stoke.

The Argentine superstar has spent his entire career at Barcelona but has been linked with moves to the Premier League with Manchester United and City both being touted as possible destinations in the past.

Pep Guardiola explored the possibility of bringing Messi over to England when he arrived at City back in 2016 but failed in his attempts to persuade him to leave Barcelona.

Lionel Messi has brilliantly responded to claims he couldn't shine on a cold night in Stoke

Some believe that a cold night at the bet365 stadium would be the ultimate test for Messi

Messi has year-on-year lit up La Liga and now seems destined to finish his career at Barcelona. It's led to questions over whether or not the 31-year-old would be able to emulate the success he's had in Spain in the Premier League.

The yardstick in this instance comes back to the old adage 'Can you do it on a cold night in Stoke?'. Some believe Messi would struggle but he produced a convincing riposte when quizzed by Spanish journalist Guillem Balague.

The five-time Ballon d'Or winner replied by reflecting on his days as a kid playing football in his hometown of Rosario in Argentina.

Leo Messi is confident he would pass the ultimate test in world football.



A cold, wet night in #scfc



🎙 @GuillemBalague



🎙 @JamesHorncastle



🎙 @Steve_Crossman



Euro Leagues Podcast: ⚽ https://t.co/CP78rVuGkB pic.twitter.com/2F8EjHqhN8 — BBC 5 Live Sport on BBC Sounds (@5liveSport) November 16, 2018

The superstar has spent his entire career at Barcelona and has year-on-year lit up La Liga

The 31-year-old picked up the Pichichi trophy for the 2017-18 leading goalscorer last week

Balague told BBC 5 Live Sport: 'I asked Messi about people in England saying: "You would not do so well on a cold, wet night in Stoke".

'He said: "They should have seen the pitches I played on in Rosario and I was quite good there too".'

With Stoke in the Championship and Messi tied down until 2021 - with a release clause of £626m - it's unlikely we will ever find out if he could do it on a cold night in Staffordshire.

But Messi has gone on to win every trophy available to a club player and is Barca's all-time leading goalscorer with 513 goals, and counting. So, maybe it's best to just take his word for it.

Guillem Balague asked Messi if he thinks he could play well on a cold night in Stoke

====== 2523 ========

TYSON FURY REVEALS HE HAS BATTLED HIS DEMONS AND IS 'MORE DETERMINED' THAN EVER AHEAD OF WILDER BOUT

Tyson Fury insists he is 'stronger and more determined' than ever ahead of facing Deontay Wilder as he reflects on battling his demons in recent years.

Fury's career reached an all-time high when he beat Wladimir Klitschko in 2015 to become heavyweight champion of the world but issues outside of the ring soon took hold and his career was temporarily placed on pause.

October 2016 was significant as he told Rolling Stone magazine he was taking cocaine and struggling with mental health problems, he gave up his world titles to focus on his mental health and The British Boxing Board of Control (BBBC) suspended Fury owing to 'anti-doping and medical issues'.

Tyson Fury insists he is 'stronger' and 'more determined' than he has ever been before

The 30-year-old is currently in Los Angeles preparing to face Deontay Wilder on December 1

Fury candidly reflected on his personal struggles with mental health problems in recent years

But speaking in the first episode of Showtime's 'ALL ACCESS: Wilder vs. Fury' series, the 30-year-old unbeaten fighter feels he is now a totally different person to the one who stunned the world by beating Klitschko in Dusseldorf back in 2015.

'People say you aren't the Tyson Fury of 2015 and I'll agree,' he said.

'I'm nowhere near that. That Tyson Fury is dead. He died with mental health problems. This is a new me, stronger, more determined.

He thinks he is a totally different person to the one who beat Wladimir Klitschko back in 2015

Fury has never lost a fight and is totally confident of bringing about Wilder's first career defeat

'I'm a possessed man. I want to tear Deontay Wilder to pieces like a pitbull because he said I couldn't and the world thinks he can beat me.

'I haven't been beat in the ring. Never lost a fight. I've defied odds since I was born. Eight weeks premature, died three times, battled mental health problems.

'If I can beat all that, come through all that, why can't I beat a guy with a pair of boxing gloves on?'

Since returning to the ring Fury has been building up to another blockbuster fight night and having never tasted defeat, he is showing no hint of nervousness in the final stages of his preparation camp.

Fury is currently finalising his camp in Los Angeles ahead of the eagerly-anticipated contest

He feels that having overcome his personal struggles, he is better placed to go and beat Wilder

Fury is in Los Angeles having been putting himself through altitude training at Big Bear mountain. He is leaving no stone unturned as he looks to begin reclaiming the heavyweight belts he had to relinquish years ago.

The fight is one of the most eagerly-anticipated bouts of 2018 with two unbeaten fighters putting records on the line as they look to assert their status in the heavyweight division.

Fury, who is putting his 27-fight unblemished record on the line, must get past an American opponent who is 40-0 with 39 knockouts.

====== 2524 ========

FLOERSCH WILL RETURN TO RACING AFTER SURGERY WENT 'EXTREMELY WELL'

Sophia Florsch's team principal says the Formula 3 driver's surgery after fracturing her spine went 'extremely well' and has expressed confidence that she will return to racing.

Florsch sustained a spinal fracture in a horrific high-speed crash at the Macau Grand Prix on Sunday.

The 17-year-old German appeared to lose control of her Van Amersfoort Racing car as she approached a tight right-hand corner on lap four, with the vehicle becoming airborne before crashing into fences.

Sophia Floersch goes over Sho Tsuboi while flying off the track at 172 mph at the Macau GP

Floersch of the Van Amersfoort Racing team is seen after crashing into a platform for media

Race personnel and pit crew are seen at the accident site after the horrific crash

Florsch subsequently wrote on Twitter that she was 'fine' and set for surgery the following morning.

Van Amersfoort Racing owner Frits van Amersfoort told BBC World Service on Monday: 'Everything is working and everything is in order.

'Paralysis was the main fear. That's why the operation had to be done quite quickly because there was a danger her spinal cord could be damaged.

'We are extremely happy that she is now recovering and that everything went extremely well. There's no fear of paralysis whatsoever.'

On Monday she gave an update, and it was later confirmed her surgery was successful

When asked if Florsch will return to racing, Van Amersfoort said: 'I'm quite sure that Sophia will - after some time of course.

'Luckily enough winter is now beginning so she will have time to recover and I am quite sure that she will be back. That's what the racing blood always does - coming back because this is the sport we all love.'

The sight of Floersch's car flying through the air before suffering a horrifying crash at the Macau GP was enough to shock all racing fans. It was incredibly fortunate that her and others involved in the incident did not fare worse.

New pictures emerged on Monday showing the quick reactions of the medical team at the scene of the accident as they attended to the 17-year-old, who underwent surgery for her injuries.

On Monday Floersch gave an update on her condition, confirming that while the surgery was a slow process, the initial stages had been a success.

Five people and two drivers were injured as marshalls attend to the stricken Floersch

German teenager Floersch was involved in a horrific crash in a Formula 3 race in Macau

The 17-year-old female teenage driver suffered a fractured spine when her car flew off track

FACTORS THAT SAVED LIVES IN MACAU Sausage kerb - Although it propelled Floersch airborne it prevented a T-Bone crash with another driver High catch fencing - Absorbed a lot of energy and took velocity out of Floersch's car Medics response - Medical teams reacted quickly on the scene to attend to the stricken driver

'The medical team is deliberately working slowly to avoid risks,' she said on Twitter. 'The previous surgical course is good and without complications. The surgery that began this morning continues.'

Floersch was flung through the air at 172mph when she lost control at the Lisboa bend, sending her car hurtling into into a temporary platform and injuring her, another driver, a marshal and two photographers.

As well as the quick response of the medical team, alterations to the famous Macau track over the years also look to have been pivotal in preventing a much worse outcome.

No official track footage exists of the crash but it appears Floersch crashed into another driver, Jehan Daruvala, before skating towards the scene of the accident.

This is backed up by Chinese driver Guan Yu Zhou who added that Daruvala had slowed down for yellow flags, which indicate drivers to slow down due to a hazard on the track.

Zhou, who was in the car directly behind Floersch at the time of the accident, said a yellow caution light might have distracted her.

'First of all it was such a scary moment,' Guan said. 'Coming after Mandarin [the preceding right-hand kink], I saw the yellow, but I think it was just a mistake by the organisers' station.

'Sophia was really close to Jehan, so when Jehan braked early she had no time to react. She hit Jehan's right-rear, and that spun her around straight into Lisboa, and she flew into the other car. I just hope she's OK.'

The initial crash that sent Floersch into the barrier also led to damage that rendered her brakes useless as she hurtled towards the following right hand turn.

Once at the turn she was catapulted into the air by a blue sausage kerb, that is designed to stop drivers cutting the corner and looking to gain an advantage.

It is easy to look at this and say the kerb made the accident worse, but it actually proved crucial in preventing another big crash instead.

Floersch's team principal confirmed the second round of surgery had been a success

By hitting the kerb, Floersch's car was lifted over driver Sho Tsuboi, striking the top of his car. Had the kerb not been there, and it was only put in place for this year's race, it would have led to a frightening incident of the two drivers crashing at 172mph.

From this point Floersch then heads towards catch fencing backwards on the opposite side of the corner, and this part of the track has had alterations over the years too.

The height of the fencing is understood to have been raised many years ago, and this alone is one of the biggest factors in saving Floersch from a much worse fate.

By hitting the fence, much energy and velocity was scrubbed off Floersch's airborne vehicle before it hit a photographer's bunker.

It was highly fortunate that the cockpit area and roll-hoop above the driver's head struck the bunker where there was an opening and not a solid wall.

Footage from behind the crash shows the car travelling backwards towards the platform

Debris falls off the car as it lifts further off the ground and sends marshalls running for cover

Marshals quickly rushed to Floersch's attention as officials waved red flags within seconds

From there Floersch's car fell to the ground, leaving the driver covered by her fire extinguisher that had gone off, as medics attended the scene.

Although it cannot be certain, F3's strict rules regarding safety would have likely helped Floersch from suffering further injuries.

Run under the FIA governing body, the same that governs Formula One, the European F3 series which Floersch competes in requires drivers as part of regulations to race with protection from 'top level products'.

These include a £3,000 helmet, a £1,000 frontal head restraint, which protects the neck, and other features that protect against flames and radiant heat.

Sophia Floersch is pictured at the 65th Macau Grand Prix shortly before Sunday's crash

The car was ruined by the crash and medical crews were quick to come to Floersch's aid

The bunker, which has not always been at the corner, played an important role in limiting not just media injuries but also Floersch's as she could have hit more structures beyond the corner.

Tsuboi was taken to hospital with back pain while a marshal, Chan Cha In, suffered a deep cut to the face, a fractured jaw and an abrasion of his upper abdomen wall.

Photographer Chan Weng Wang sustained a liver laceration and is being treated in hospital, while fellow snapper Minami Hiroyuki, suffered a concussion and remains under observation.

'All were conscious during transit to the hospital and are now receiving medical treatment. Further updates will be provided as soon as possible,' said the Macau Grand Prix Organising Committee in a statement.

The teenager was admitted to the emergency room of a Macau hospital with a spinal fracture

She posed with Macau policemen and thanked them for their welcome before the race

Before admitting that she was disappointed with her efforts in qualifying on Saturday

====== 2525 ========

ALL BLACKS PILE ON THE WEIGHT IN HEAVY LIFTING SESSION AS THEY LOOK TO RECOVER FROM IRELAND DEFEAT

New Zealand's stars stepped up their preparations for Sunday's clash with Italy by hitting the gym at their Rome base.

The All Blacks, who will be looking to bounce back from their narrow defeat by Ireland over the weekend, took part in a heavy duty lifting session on Monday.

Ahead of Sunday's match at the Stadio Olimpico, the likes of former World Player of the year Brodie Retallick and prop forward Karl Tu'inukuafe could be seen straining under the intense pressure of a series of sizeable weights.

Karl Tu'inukuafe lifts 150kg as part of New Zealand's heavy duty weights session on Monday

21-stone prop Tu'inukuafe was joined in the Villa Borghese gym in Rome by his team-mates

Patrick Tuipulotu does some bench pressing as New Zealand prepare for their clash with Italy

Richie Mo'unga bench presses 210kg as his All Blacks team-mates watch on in Rome

Dane Coles lifts 100kg during the All Blacks' gym session in Rome on Monday morning

ALL BLACKS' AUTUMN INTERNATIONALS Japan 31-69 NEW ZEALAND England 15-16 NEW ZEALAND Ireland 16-9 NEW ZEALAND Italy v NEW ZEALAND

Tu'inukuafe, a 21-stone former bouncer, grimaced as he lifted 150kg, while lock Retallick - a key performer in the recent win over England at Twickenham - did some wide-arm lateral pull-downs.

Bruising centre Ngani Laumape, meanwhile, did the Russian Twist with a medicine ball as he sought to get into top shape for the game in the Italian capital.

For so long the outstanding side in world rugby, New Zealand were made to pay for Jacob Stockdale's opportunistic try at the Aviva Stadium on Saturday.

And speaking after the game, New Zealand coach Steve Hansen suggested that Joe Schimdt's team have now assumed the mantle of No 1 ahead of next summer's World Cup in Japan.

Angus Ta'avao struggles under the strain of a 190kg bench press at Villa Borghese

Former World Player of the Year Brodie Retallick does wide-arm lateral pull-downs in the gym

Bruising centre Ngani Laumape, meanwhile, does the Russian Twist with a medicine ball

Vaea Fifita and Kieran Reid were also seen working in the gym ahead of their clash with Italy

'I think they are fitter; their defence is great,' he said. 'Both teams last night defended for long periods and defended really well. Their scrum was good.

'Everybody in the team is doing their bit and Joe is obviously leading it very well. They have become a team that believes in themselves and prides themselves on what they do.

'But it's their turn (as the world's best) at the moment so we'll see how they cope with that.'

====== 2526 ========

SOUTH AFRICA CAPTAIN SIYA KOLISI ESCAPES BAN DESPITE HEADBUTTING PETER HORNE

Siya Kolisi controversially escaped a ban despite headbutting Scotland’s Peter Horne on Saturday.

The South Africa captain, 27, will now be free to face Wales having only received a citing commissioners warning – the equivalent of a yellow card.

In the 31st minute of the match at Murrayfield, when Scotland were on the attack, Kolisi was held in a ruck by Horne.

Scroll down for video

Siya Kolisi has escaped a ban despite headbutting Scotland’s Peter Horne

The Springboks captain was involved in an unsavoury incident in the recent Murrayfield clash

Kolisi was held in a ruck by Horne leaving the South African on the floor struggling to escape

In response Kolisi was seen flinging his head back and making contact with his opponent

Kolisi's actions appeared largely missed by fellow Scotland players as they focused on play

THE RULE BOOK In January 2017 World Rugby said they would be adopting a tougher approach towards players making contact with the head. The new guidelines will fall into two clear categories, one being reckless, and the other being accidental. Reckless: 'A player is deemed to have made reckless contact during a tackle or attempted tackle or during other phases of the game if in making contact, the player knew or should have known that there was a risk of making contact with the head of an opponent, but did so anyway.' Minimum sanction: Yellow card Maximum sanction: Red card Accidental: 'When making contact with another player during a tackle or attempted tackle or during other phases of the game, if a player makes accidental contact with an opponent’s head, either directly or where the contact starts below the line of the shoulders, the player may still be sanctioned. This includes situations where the ball-carrier slips into the tackle.' Minimum sanction: Penalty

Trying to escape he butted his opponent with the back of his head, leaving many outraged. Kolisi was not punished on the field.

A World Rugby statement on Monday read: ‘Having reviewed the video angles, the citing commissioner determined that there were mitigating factors which meant that the action did not meet the red card threshold, including the player being illegally prevented from re-joining the play by Scotland’s Peter Horne and the moderate force of the strike to the side of the head.

‘The match officials did not see the incident at the time on the field of play.’

Striking with the head carries a four-week suspension time, if proven guilty of a low-end offence.

But now with no ban whatsoever Kolisi will be available for the Wales match in Cardiff this Saturday.

South Africa beat Scotland 26-20 and have now won seven of 13 Tests this season.

They lost their last match against Wales back in June – albeit with a heavily rotated team in Washington DC – and beat England 2-1 in the summer.

They will be out to end Wales’ eight-match winning run and stop Warren Gatland’s men completing a first-ever autumn clean sweep.

Wales have beaten Scotland, Australia and Tonga this month, and last lost to Ireland in February.

====== 2527 ========

CHELSEA STRIKER ALVARO MORATA GETS RIPPED AFTER UNBELIEVABLE MISS FOR SPAIN

Alvaro Morata has been ruthlessly mocked by fans after an incredible open-goal miss in Spain's 1-0 friendly victory over Bosnia and Herzegovina.

The misfiring Chelsea striker had a golden opportunity to score his first goal for his country in over a year but somehow managed to squander it - despite being just six yards out and having no goalkeeper to beat.

The 26-year-old, who was given the nod to lead the line by boss Luis Enrique, reacted well to Marco Asensio's saved effort but could not convert the rebound with the goal gaping.

Scroll down for video

Alvaro Morata was fiercely mocked on social media after missing an open goal for Spain

The Chelsea striker was gifted an opportunity when the keeper saved Marco Asensio's shot

Morata reacted well but got his feet tangled and fell off balance as he tried to turn it goalwards

The Spanish forward somehow managed to miss the target completely from just six yards

It was a howler and football fans were quick to poke fun at Morata's expense on social media after witnessing the miss-of-the-season contender.

One user wrote: 'Alvaro Morata missing an open goal tonight for Spain, water is wet.'

While another fan said: 'How bad is [Olivier] Giroud if this guy is picked over him in the Chelsea squad.'

Morata was also compared to Chelsea flop Fernando Torres, while another Twitter user claimed that the former Juventus star was 'cursed'.

The jury is still out on the Spaniard, who is yet to set the world alight since moving to Chelsea last summer.

Alvaro Morata missing an open goal tonight for Spain, water is wet. pic.twitter.com/DDMxFlYONx — Ryan. 🔴 (@Vintage_Utd) November 18, 2018

He struggled for consistency last season which saw him omitted from Spain's World Cup squad in the summer and has so far only netted six goals in 16 games this term.

Luckily for Spain and Morata, debutant Brais Mendez was less wasteful in front of goal and spared his blushes by tucking away the winner 12 minutes from time.

The victory helped lift the mood on a day Spain's hopes of winning the UEFA Nations League semi-finals were squashed by England.

Gareth Southgate's men scored a dramatic late winner to defeat Croatia on Sunday, meaning they qualified for the last four as winners of their group while Spain were forced to settle for a second-place finish.

Brais Mendez scored on his debut for Spain to seal the 1-0 victory over Bosnia and Herzegovina

====== 2528 ========

HARRY REDKNAPP REACHES INTO BOX FULL OF CREEPY CRAWLIES AS HE COMPLETES CHALLENGE ON I'M A CELEBRITY

When it came to transfer deadline day, there was nothing more iconic than Harry Redknapp leaning out of his car window and letting reporters know the current transfer dealings happening at his respective club.

Now, the famous pose has been turned into a challenge on the popular TV show I’m A Celebrity: Get Me Out of Here.

And there’s only one person fit for the trial – yes, you guessed it, it’s Mr Redknapp himself.

Harry Redknapp is a contestant on this year's I'm A Celebrity: Get Me Out Here

The former Tottenham boss took part in the challenge 'Hell Holes' on the first episode

The 71-year-old had to reach into a box full of creepy crawlies to retrieve tokens for his team

To kick off the show, four celebrities were divided into two teams and were dealt their first challenge, with the winning team allowed to pick another two contestants to join them.

Following this, Harry was paired up DIYSOS host Nick Knowles before being chosen to join the team consisting of Coronation Street actress Sair Khan and Doctor Who actor John Barrowman.

And it didn't take long for the former Tottenham manager to get stuck into his challenge named 'Hell Holes'.

Redknapp was often stopped in his car on deadline day for updates on transfer business

The veteran manager got off to a quick start retrieving two of his three tokens

While he struggled to find the last one, Harry helped win the challenge as they headed to camp

The challenge involved two celebrities pulling up to a barricade in a car and reaching out of their window and into a box full of creepy crawlies.

As Harry was in the front seat, it was only right for the veteran manager to compete in the task that was designed with him in mind.

And Harry got off to quick start as he calmly collected two of his tokens in quick succession.

Redknapp was paired up with DIYSOS host Nick Knowles to start off the episode

Redknapp admitted he hasn't seen the popular show before and didn't know what to expect

As he reached around the box filled with crabs and spiders, he asked 'where is the bloody token?' before comically squealing as he was attacked by the jungle critters.

Harry's performance helped his team win the challenge, earning them the right to pick their final team-mate.

While he did admit to having never watched the show before, Harry looked right at home during the first episode of this season's I'm A Celebrity.

====== 2529 ========

GARY NEVILLE AND ALEX SCOTT HAIL ENGLAND'S 'GROWTH' AFTER SEALING NATIONS LEAGUE SEMI-FINAL SPOT

Gary Neville and Alex Scott sang the praises of England after they sealed their place in the Nations League semi-finals.

England came from behind to beat Croatia 2-1 at Wembley in the crunch Nations League decider, thanks to late goals from Jesse Lingard and Harry Kane on Sunday afternoon.

Gareth Southgate's side finally got their revenge on Croatia after their semi-final heartbreak at the World Cup and there are plenty of positive signs going forward with this young and vibrant squad.

England came from behind to beat Croatia 2-1 in the Nations League on Sunday at Wembley

Jesse Lingard and Harry Kane scored late on for the Three Lions in the entertaining clash

And speaking following the victory at Wembley, former England and Manchester United right back Neville insisted the squad are 'building' before adding the nation will not be 'getting carried away'.

Neville told Sky Sports: 'I don't think we're getting carried away, there has been doom and gloom for so long. Getting carried away is not a bad thing after all these years.

'The moment after the Croatia game I thought they might never get back there but they look like they're building.

'It was brilliant today to watch that back four. Defenders are naturally lazy, the energy in that back four was great. Even though Southgate wasn't the quickest he always got in front and he's put that into the defence.'

Speaking after the victory, Gary Neville claimed that Gareth Southgate's side are 'building'

Meanwhile, former England and Arsenal Women's player Scott backed up Neville's view, claiming England have improved since their World Cup exit in the summer.

England let slip a 1-0 lead in the World Cup semi-finals in Russia but they reversed their fortunes on the weekend.

England went 1-0 behind in the 57th minute through Andrej Kramaric's deflected effort but late close range finishes from Lingard and Kane showed Southgate's side have that fighting mentality.

'That second half was like in the World Cup where Croatia gained momentum so England staying in the game is the development and growth.

'It's been a great year for the team, getting fans back on side, getting the love for the shirt again, the players talking to media, telling their stories and that performance capped it off.'

====== 2530 ========

JORDAN PICKFORD HAS LIST OF CROATIAN PENALTY TAKERS AND LIKELY DIRECTION WRITTEN ON WATER BOTTLE

Jordan Pickford has written a list of Croatian penalty takers and what side they're likely to pick on his water bottle.

The England and Everton goalkeeper is known to have done his homework on his opponents beforehand and was seen using the same trick in the Three Lions' 3-0 win over USA earlier this week.

The 24-year-old even used the trick during England's World Cup campaign in Russia when he was handed a water bottle with a list of Colombian players and their preferred side.

Jordan Pickford has list of Croatian penalty takers and their preferred direction on his bottle

England's No 1 made sure he was prepared in their 2-1 win over Croatia at Wembley on Sunday

Pickford was the hero in that penalty-shootout victory as he used his notes to save Carlos Bacca's spot-kick but admitted that Radamel Falcao placed his shot differently to what he had originally prepared for.

His notes weren't needed on Sunday against Croatia as England ran out 2-1 winners courtesy of two late goals from Harry Kane and Jesse Lingard.

However, it doesn't seem like Pickford is going to stop using the tactic anytime soon as it appears to be working for the Toffees man.

Pickford has saved three penalties so far this season and has built a reputation for being hard to beat from 12 yards.

Pickford also made notes of the USA's penalty takers and likely direction on his water bottle

Pickford used the same trick to help him save Carlos Bacca's penalty at the World Cup

The former Sunderland man saved Luka Milivojevic's penalty for Crystal Palace last month, before admitting: 'I forgot to do my research to be honest but watching other games back and you can see he [Milivojevic] is a very good penalty taker so I was pleased to save that penalty.'

His heroics over the past year have seen him linked with the likes of Manchester United, who are reportedly planning a £60million move for England's No 1.

The Red Devils are monitoring the market with their own shot stopper David de Gea soon to be entering the final year of his Old Trafford contract.

The former Sunderland man saved Luka Milivojevic's penalty for Crystal Palace last month

De Gea can walk away from the club for free in 2020, meaning United are soon set to be faced with the dilemma of holding on to their prized asset or cashing in before losing him for nothing.

If De Gea does decide his future lies elsewhere, Jose Mourinho's side will look to England No 1 Pickford to fill the gloves, according to The Sun.

United are believed to be long-term admirers of Pickford, with Mourinho noting his ability to play out from defence with confidence and orchestrate an attack.

====== 2531 ========

SCOTTISH STRIKER EARNS RED CARD AFTER KICKING OPPONENT... AND HITTING HIM WHERE IT HURTS

Ayr striker Craig Moore may argue that he played a ball but he can really have no argument over the red card that followed his kick at Morton defender Gregor Buchanan on Saturday.

Moore was dismissed for lashing out at Buchanan during their Scottish Championship clash at Somerset Park, which ended in a goalless draw.

The pair were contesting for the ball in the 62nd minute when Buchanan bundled the striker over, with the referee signalling a foul against Morton.

Ayr’s Craig Moore got sent off yesterday in spectacular fashion.



By kicking Gregor Buchanan square in the balls. pic.twitter.com/jwOMvPLXa5 — Richard Wilson (@timomouse) November 18, 2018

Gregor Buchanan appears to foul Craig Moore as the pair contest for the ball at Somerset Park

As the referee points for a foul, Buchanan (left) attempts to dislodge the ball from under Moore

But as Moore fell to the ground, Buchanan again aimed a kick at the ball, appearing to catch Moore in the side of his body.

While climbing to his feet, Moore lashed out with his right boot, catching Buchanan in the groin.

His retaliation earned an immediate dismissal from referee William Collum, while Buchanan was shown a yellow card for his role.

As Moore climbs to his feet, he aims a kick backwards towards the Morton defender

Buchanan is left in a heap on the floor as referee William Collum dismisses the Ayr striker

Despite the man disadvantage, Ayr were able to hold out for a goalless draw and saw their lead at the top of the Scottish Championship increase to five points.

In the aftermath, Ayr boss Ian McCall labelled Moore as 'daft' and claimed he 'let his team-mates down'.

The Glasgow-born striker signed for Ayr from Motherwell in 2017 after two successful loan spells.

Moore scored 19 league goals last year as his side were crowned Scottish League One champions.

Moore, who has scored three times for Ayr this season, appeared to be angered by the foul

====== 2532 ========

ALTITUDE CHAMBERS AND A NEW PATH TO THE TOP – INSIDE CARL FRAMPTON’S CAMP AHEAD JOSH WARRINGTON

Step by painful step, Carl Frampton is climbing the mountain once more.

The Northern Irishman is in Manchester for another camp under trainer Jamie Moore, plotting his route back to the top of the featherweight division.

On December 22, with a shot at Josh Warrington's IBF world title, the 31-year-old has a chance to reach the summit again.

Carl Frampton is plotting his way back to the summit and Josh Warrington stands in his way

The Northern Irishman is in Manchester for another camp under trainer Jamie Moore

He knows it won't come easily. Warrington is unbeaten, hungry and coming off a brilliant win over Lee Selby.

But any concerns over the danger he poses can wait for now. A return to Moore's gym means an unwelcome reunion with an equally daunting foe - a punishing set of steps in Stockport that Frampton must scale in the weeks before fight night.

'You're probably finished in 20 minutes but I've never felt a lactic burn like it in my life. It's just insane.'

He and stablemate Jack Catterall argue about exactly how many steps they have to climb.

'You're nuts... there are about 140!' Frampton insists.

But they can both agree on one thing.

'It kills you and if you haven't done it in a while, which I haven't, it takes you four or five days to get over it. That's what I hate the most.'

The pain will be worth it if he triumphs at the Manchester Arena.

Not long ago, in the eyes of many, Frampton was heading only one way. Defeat by Leo Santa Cruz in January 2017 was supposed to signal the first step on an inevitable decline.

Warrington is unbeaten, hungry and coming off a brilliant win over Lee Selby

Defeat by Leo Santa Cruz in January 2017 was supposed to signal the first step of his decline

Frampton is under the tutelage of Moore (R) after splitting from Barry and Shane McGuigan

His latest bout ended in victory as he defeated Luke Jackson at Windsor Park in August

Gone are Shane and Barry McGuigan, the father-son duo who guided him to world titles at two different weights.

Once almost family, Frampton now stands in the opposite corner of a messy legal dispute to be settled in the courts.

Their split shocked the boxing world, but it was a change Frampton needed.

'I was injured a lot more, I felt like I was being run into the ground and it's different now… every single day, every single session was hard,' he recalls.

'Until you come out of that environment and you know you can train smarter and don't have to kill yourself every day in the gym, you don't really understand it. So I was just constantly injured, hurt, waking up in the morning going, "F***, another a day at the gym". Not excited ever about a training session… It was just a hard slog.'

Moore has helped breathe life back into the featherweight. But the fire never truly went out.

'A year ago, I was written off, I was on the scrap heap,' he claims.

'I knew that I could get back and fight for world titles again, so a lot of the motivation now is the doubters and the people that say: "You're done, it's over".'

'I knew that I could get back and fight for world titles,' he tells Sportsmail's Daniel Matthews

Sportsmail's Matthews has a go at using a leg press machine - with Frampton watching on

He adds: 'I've been lucky enough that people have only started giving me grief in the last year, year and a half. I'm always well supported and still am well supported but people don't like to see other people doing well... I got beat by Santa Cruz, then some people laughed and they think: "Ah Frampton's done now".'

Frampton bore no scars of a shot fighter when last month he gave Sportsmail a taste of life in his camp, split between Moore's Astley gym and the Manchester Institute of Health and Performance.

It's at MIHP that everything from his VO2 max to his blood oxygen levels are carefully monitored and here, thanks to a sweltering altitude chamber, that he recreates the heat of battle.

At 5,000m, conversation is stilted by low oxygen and high humidity. Temperatures can reach up to 50 degrees so breathing, let alone a session on the bike, is draining enough.

The aim is to acclimatise your body to working with less oxygen. And the results are frightening as rudimentary fitness and reaction exercises become a battle for body and mind.

At the Manchester Institute of Health and Performance he recreates the heat of battle

It is a far cry from the ramshackle backdrop of a boxing gym but both environments have their uses.

Moore has refined Frampton's slick counter-punching style, while less sparring and more sports science are helping the Northern Irishman fend off Father Time for now.

The result? Impressive wins this year over Nonito Donaire and Luke Jackson - the latter coming at his beloved Windsor Park - that have reignited his career.

'I'm not a spring chicken anymore but a few years ago I was feeling like I was coming to the end of my career,' he claims.

'(Now) I'm training smarter, down here in the Institute everything is recorded - there is no guesswork involved and I feel like I'm in a better shape.'

He adds: 'You look at guys like Bernard Hopkins and how he adjusted as he got older but I'm 31, I'm not 50! I feel like I can do now what I was doing five and six years ago... and I still perform and fight exactly the same way. When it's time for me to start thinking about my fighting style and changing it because of my age, that's probably the time to get out.'

Frampton wants to beat Warrington and Santa Cruz and tackle a third division before retiring

Frampton isn't deluded, he knows his days at the top are numbered.

Yet still he tries to avoid filling his mind with thoughts of life after boxing.

'I'm not a flash person, I've bought my house, which is what I wanted to do when I turned professional. I've got money in the bank, I haven't got a business brain cell in my head at all, I haven't a clue so I'd hopefully make a few sound investments where I don't have to a lot after training.'

For now, he plans only to follow a three-step exit-plan: 'This may sound far-fetched, but in my head I would like to do Warrington, Santa Cruz in the spring in (Las) Vegas and then maybe try and tackle a third division at Windsor Park next summer.'

As Frampton knows, however, the chance to walk away - content, and for good - is a dream all boxers crave but few realise. What makes him different?

'I like to be at home with my kids (Carla and Rossa) and wife (Christine),' he says.

'I like not to have to do a lot and not have a regimented training schedule and just lie in until 9 o'clock in the morning, get up and have a bit of McDonald's breakfast... so I don't think when the time comes to hang them up it'll be a big deal for me.'

What comes next? Frampton doesn't know. And he's not alone.

These are uncertain times for all in Northern Ireland.

As Britain plots its departure from the EU, the Irish border has become an unlikely epicentre of negotiations.

'There is a lot of uncertainty around what's going on,' Frampton says. 'I don't think the politicians really know what's going on, so how's an average guy on the street going to?'

He adds: 'I grew up at the back end of the Troubles, when a lot of the tension and fighting was still going on. It's not like that anymore - Belfast, especially, is a good, inclusive, friendly city... I don't know what's going to happen but people are little bit wary of the next move.'

Frampton is solely focused on Warrington and claiming that IBF belt next month

The 31-year-old will soon discover if there is more than one path to the top of the mountain

Frampton knows more than most how bad it can get - he grew up on the interface, witnessing nightly riots and seeing friends join paramilitary groups.

But now his focus is only on Warrington and that IBF belt.

Moore is tasked with ensuring his fighter is both mentally and physically prepared. But even in the hours before the first bell, Frampton will still seek help elsewhere.

'I've always said superstitions are for mentally weak people, I never really have them. But I actually have one,' he says.

'Leaving the hotel, wherever I'm staying before a fight, I always make sure all the lights and the TV are turned off.'

Some things won't change. But having burned the candle at both ends, Frampton will soon discover if there is more than one path to the top of the mountain.

Carl is training at The Manchester Institute of Health & Performance (MIHP) operated by HCA Healthcare UK ahead of his fight on 22 Dec. For more information visit https://www.mihp.co.uk

====== 2533 ========

DIEGO MARADONA GUIDES DORADOS INTO MEXICO'S ASCENSO MX SEMI-FINALS

Diego Maradona was in the thick of the action as his Dorados team began the dressing room celebrations after booking a spot in the semi-final of Mexico's Ascenso MX.

The Argentina legend oversaw a 1-0 win over rivals Mineros de Zacatecas on Saturday evening, to secure passage to the final four.

A goal from Vinicio Angulo in the 65th minute was enough for Maradona's side, who picked up a 1-0 second leg win following a 0-0 draw in the opening leg.

