Serena Williams looked every inch the doting mother to their one-year-old daughter Alexis Olympia as she posted a sweet snap on Instagram on Wednesday

Serena drew attention to her eye-popping cleavage and athletic frame in the skin-tight bodysuit.

She highlighted her hourglass curves with a statement gold Chanel belt and added a boost to her height with heeled black boots.

The Wimbledon ace let her Afro fall over her face and showed off her glowing complexion with smoky black eye-shadow.

One year on: The photoshoot comes after the tennis professional celebrated her first marriage milestone with Reddit co-founder Alexis

Little Olympia looked the spitting image of her famous mum in a pale pink frilly dress and seemed to be getting a taste of the showbiz lifestyle as she stood in front of a white backdrop, looking at the camera and holding Serena's hand.

The photoshoot comes after the tennis professional celebrated her first marriage milestone with Reddit co-founder Alexis.

The power couple tied the knot in a lavish, star studded affair in New Orleans.

On Friday, tech mogul Alexis, 35, posted a black and white photo of the couple dancing at their Beauty and the Beast themed wedding.

Sweet: On Friday, tech mogul Alexis, 35, posted a black and white photo of the couple dancing at their Beauty and the Beast themed wedding

Ohanian captioned the image: '365 days later. And still dancing. Only now Jr joins in.'

The internet tycoon then added a note directed at his wife: 'Happy anniversary, my queen. Here's to many, many more.'

Serena tied the knot in font of a bevvy of A-list names like Beyonce and Jay Z, Kim Kardashian, Eva Longoria, Ciara and others.

The affair was highly anticipated and cameras clamored for a shot at the world's greatest athlete in her two wedding gowns.

The fashion designer shared the snap from her GQ photoshoot.

Serena currently on one of four covers for GQ Magazine's annual Men of the Year issue with the 'men' crossed out and the word 'woman' scrawled over it in quotations.

Critics flocked to social media to call out the publication for using the quotation marks suggesting it's transphobic and racist.

'The brunt of the criticism boils down to the use of the use of the quotation marks which, according to detractors, nods to insults Serena has faced for the majority of her career,' reported Vice.

====== 413 ========

CAMERON DIAZ EMBRACES HER LOW-KEY STYLE IN FLEECE JACKET AND RIPPED DENIM

She announced her retirement from acting last year.

And Cameron Diaz seems to be enjoying the quiet life as she was spotted running errands in Los Angeles on Wednesday.

The 46-year-old still looked every inch the movie star as she wrapped her enviable figure in a fleece jacket and ripped denim pants.

Star walk: Cameron Diaz, 46, was spotted running errands in Los Angeles on Wednesday

Daring to impress, the Charlie's Angels alum carried a bright red handbag across her chest as she left her trademark blonde tresses long and loose.

Cameron may no longer be working on film, but she has plenty to keep her busy.

She helped BFF Gwyneth Paltrow plan her September wedding to Brad Falchuk.

And she has been enjoying life with her husband Benji Madden.

Still got it: Cameron still looked every inch the movie star as she wrapped her enviable figure in a fleece jacket and ripped denim pants

Indeed Benji, 39, recently thanked Cameron for inspiring him to be the 'best man' he can be.

On her birthday this summer he wrote: 'There's so much to write, so many things that make me so proud of you and how special you are. Thank you for being the best friend and partner to me and taking this journey of Marriage.

'The way you live your life everyday, and your compassion for the world shines thru in your eyes and you inspire me to want to be the best man I can be in this lifetime. You're the realest. I'm so grateful to be yours Always&Forever, and to call you my One&Only.'

The couple married in 2015.

Last year, Cameron admitted she and Benji are 'so different from one another', but they are also 'both weird enough' to be together.

She said: 'I think it's a matter of - I just hadn't met my husband, you know? I had boyfriends before.

'And there's a really, really distinct difference between husbands and boyfriends. And I have a husband who is ... just my partner in life and in everything. Talk about two very different people, we are so different from one another but we share the same values ... we're totally two peas in a pod. We're both just weird enough for each other.'

====== 414 ========

LORI LOUGHLIN, 54, OF FULLER HOUSE FAME SHOWS OFF SLENDER FIGURE IN PLAID TRACK SUIT

Loro Loughlin has a way of not looking older even though she has crossed the 50 mark.

On Tuesday evening the Fuller House star, 54, showed off her good looks as she stopped by Craig's restaurant in West Hollywood for a late meal.

The blonde beauty has been busy promoting her Hallmark TV movie Homegrown Christmas written by Nina Weinman and co-starring Matt Hamilton. The movie airs December 8.

Walking fountain of youth: Loro Loughlin has a way of not looking older even though she has crossed the 50 mark. On Tuesday evening the Fuller House star, 54, showed off her good looks as she stopped by Craig's restaurant in West Hollywood for a late meal

On trend: The pinup had on a blue and green plaid jacket that had red piping at the bottom and on the cuffs. It was a zip up and looked to have a hoodie

The pinup had on a blue and green plaid jacket that had red piping at the bottom and on the cuffs. It was a zip up and looked to have a hoodie.

The track pants were the same design with zippers up the sides.

The mother of two added pointy heels with see-through sides. And she carried not only a black Christian Dior purse - the design that Princess Diana favored - but also a silver gift bag.

Kim Kardashian would approve: The mother of two added pointy heels with see-through sides. And she carried not only a black Christian Dior purse - the design that Princess Diana favored - but also a silver gift bag

Who's her derm? The siren is almost wrinkle free and has a glow to her of a 20-year-old

The synopsis for Homegrown Christmas was shared on imdb.com.

'After stepping down as CEO of her dream job, Maddie (Loughlin) heads home for the holidays to gain perspective.

'She finds herself running into her old high school sweetheart Carter (Webster), and tensions quickly arise.

'When forced to put together a Christmas dance for the local high school, Carter and Maddie find themselves putting their differences aside and rediscover what made them fall in love all those years ago.'

New movie: The beauty has been promoting her Hallmark TV movie Homegrown Christmas written by Nina Weinman and co-starring Matt Hamilton. The movie airs December 8

Lovely storyline: The synopsis for Homegrown Christmas was shared on imdb.com. 'After stepping down as CEO of her dream job, Maddie (Loughlin) heads home for the holidays to gain perspective'

It was added: 'She finds herself running into her old high school sweetheart Carter (Webster), and tensions quickly arise.'When forced to put together a Christmas dance for the local high school, Carter and Maddie find themselves putting their differences aside and rediscover what made them fall in love all those years ago'

Lori also works with Cindy Crawford as a model for Meaningful Beauty.

And in October she was seen with the Vogue supermodel on set. She noted that she always had fun with the cover girl.

Loughlin has said the skin care system makes her look 10 years younger.

And before that she was pictured with Jennifer Lopez and her mother Lupe at a morning show in New York City.

Two beauties: Lori also works with Cindy Crawford as a model for Meaningful Beauty. And in October she was seen with the Vogue supermodel on set. She noted that she always had fun with the cover girl

====== 415 ========

MICHAEL SCHUMACHER'S FAMILY RELEASE INTERVIEW FROM BEFORE SKI ACCIDENT

An interview with Michael Schumacher - given less than two months before he suffered life changing head injuries in a skiing accident in 2013 - has been released.

It was posted on Schumacher's website by his family and is the first unseen footage to emerge since his accident.

In it, Schumacher reflects on his life in F1, having ended his career for a second time only a year previously after a comeback with Mercedes.

Interview with Michael Schumacher, from before his 2013 skiing accident, has been released

It is the first previously unseen interview released since Schumacher suffered head injuries

Schumacher reflects on his life in F1, having ended his career for a second time a year before

He describes his most emotional championship victory - having won a record seven in his illustrious career - as being his first with Ferrari in 2000.

Schumacher, who had previously rarely spoken about his career, said: '21 years no championship with Ferrari, four years myself failing , then finally, in a great race, to achieve it, win the world championship.'

He describes former McLaren driver Mika Hakkinen as being the rival driver he respected more than any other in his career - but that his greatest sporting idol as a child was not an F1 racer.

SCHUMACHER CAREER Years in F1: 1991-2006, 2010-2012 Teams: Jordan, Benetton, Ferrari, Mercedes Races: 308 Wins: 91 World championships: Seven - 1994, 1995 (Benetton), 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 (Ferrari)

Schumacher says: 'The most respected guy in all those years was definitely Mika Hakkinen. Great fights, but stable private relationship.

'In the young days of karting, I looked around and yes I saw Ayrton Senna or Vincenzo Sospiri, but my real idol was Toni Schumacher [former Germany international goalkeeper and no relation] because he was a great soccer player'.

The video interview is marked as being given on October 30, 2013. On December 29 that year, Schumacher suffered a serious head injury after crashing while skiing with his son on holiday in Meribel.

He hit his head on a rock, leaving him comatose and requiring two operations.

The 49-year-old continues to be treated at home in Switzerland, with official updates on his condition exceedingly rare. Only close friends and family have been allowed to visit him.

Reflecting on his career, Schumacher says his first title with Ferrari in 2000 was his best

Schumacher returned home from Lausanne University Hospital in 2015, while details in 2016 his lawyer Felix Damm confirmed that he 'cannot walk'.

His son Mick - also a racing driver - has admitted he 'finds it hard' coping with his father's injuries, according to a friend.

Nicklas Nielsen told a Danish newspaper of the 19-year-old: 'Mick does not say he is sad about his father. He just said sometimes that it is sometimes hard.

'I know him very well, also privately. He is a very quiet and calm guy. Very nice and welcoming and he talks to everyone.

'It was completely closed and not talked about. I still do a little karting with Ralf Schumacher and his team and nobody talks about it.'

He also speaks about his huge admiration for Ross Brawn - his technical director at Benetton and Ferrari, and team principal at Mercedes - and puts much of his huge success in F1 down to the Englishman.

Schumacher said: 'If you go back to the various teams I have driven for, the various missions - Benetton, after four or five years building it up to the championship, same with Ferrari; we tried the same with Mercedes in less time - is there one thing in common, I would say yes there is: Ross Brawn. Think about it!'

He also describes Mika Hakkinen (centre) as being the title rival who he respected the most

The famously focused and bloody-minded Schumacher also reveals his belief that his success in F1 owed as much to team work as to his individual race skill.

He said: 'Success, as in any situation of life, or in most I know, is about teamwork. Yourself, you do what you do. As a team, you will be much stronger. Formula One is a team work, and definitely not a one man show.'

Asked about whether he ever doubted his abilities, Schumacher said that he was always skeptical and self-critical even when analysing his two titles with Benetton and his five in a row for Ferrari.

Schumacher (in 2005 with wife Corinna) hit his head on a rock while skiing in 2013

'Records is one thing; doubts, I think it is very important to not be over confident - to be skeptical, to look for improvements.

'Yeah, I always felt I am not good enough, I have to work, and that was one part of the recipe that made me what I became.'

He also revealed his belief that F1, while tough, was much easier by the end of his 17-year, two-part career thanks to advancements in car technology.

'Formula One is very tough. It used to be a lot harder - no power brakes, no power steering - in the past compared to nowadays. But anyway it is one of the toughest sports you can do, so a lot of preparation is needed.'

====== 416 ========

NATALIE DORMER SPLITS FROM DIRECTOR FIANCÉ ANTHONY BYRNE AFTER 11 YEARS

Natalie Dormer has split from her long-term fiancé Anthony Byrne after 11 years together.

The Game Of Thrones star reportedly quietly parted ways with the Irish writer and director this summer, not long after admitting that co-writing their thriller In Darkness had created 'massive arguments' at home.

The 36-year-old actress - who usually keeps details about her personal life under wraps - has confirmed the split in an interview with the New Statesman.

Calling it quits: Natalie Dormer has split from her long-term fiancé Anthony Byrne after 11 years together, according to The New Statesman

The magazine cites: 'The two met on the set of The Tudors; they’ve parted ways since promoting the film this summer. Dormer only has positive things to say about Byrne.'

MailOnline has contacted Natalie's representatives for comment.

They had teamed up for psychological thriller In Darkness, which Natalie produced and co-wrote with Anthony,

Natalie recently admitted working on the film, which sees her play a blind pianist and also features model Emily Ratajkowski, put serious strain on their relationship.

She told You magazine: 'Couples say terrible things to each other that you would never say to your best friend. We learned very quickly that we couldn't write in the same room.

Best known for: The actress is famed for playing Margaery Tyrell in fantasy series Game Of Thrones

Long-term love: Natalie and Anthony first met on the set of The Tudors in 2007 and formed an instant connection

'Doors got slammed at various points and I wouldn't necessarily rush into writing with Anthony again.'

Despite their creative differences, she insisted she has 'huge respect' for him as a director and a partner.

Meanwhile, Anthony also spoke frankly about the stress of working together in an interview in May, confessing 'massive arguments' took place on a regular basis.

He told the Hollywood Reporter: 'We've since discovered that what we were doing was completely the wrong way to write together.

Creative differences: 'Doors got slammed at various points and I wouldn't necessarily rush into writing with Anthony again', Natalie said of working with Antony

'Because we didn't have an office or anything, we were in our own home writing, and then it would all kick off because we would disagree about something fundamentally or I would be a pain in the arse and I would challenge Nat, or myself.

'It's very easy to go, "Oh, don't worry about that, it's going to be fine", and you have to police that and in doing so you end up being the bad guy and end up having massive arguments.'

Natalie and Anthony first met on the set of The Tudors in 2007 and formed an instant connection.

The pair got engaged in 2011 when Anthony proposed to her on a boat in India.

She previously said she struggled to understand his Irish accent, joking that their relationship was plagued with 'translation issues'.

====== 417 ========

ANNE HATHAWAY SHOWS OFF HER RED HAIR IN BAGGY OVERCOAT WHILE SHOOTING NEW FILM IN NYC

The wardrobe department certainly wasn't playing up Anne Hathaway's figure during a film shoot this week.

Anne was spotted in a frumpy costume while filming in Manhattan on Tuesday. Her red locks also appeared to be a bit of a mess.

The 36-year-old star debuted her crimson hair earlier this week which appeared to be colored for the purposes of a movie role.

Lady in red: Anne Hathaway donned her newly dyed red hair in an unkempt look for a film shoot on Monday in New York

During the shoot this week, the Princess Diaries star looked liked she had just rolled out of bed in the scene.

Her auburn hair was a touch frizzy and undone and later she hit it under a wide brimmed black hat.

Anne was dressed in heather grey ponte pants that were tucked into black leather riding booths.

She layered up with a white T-shirt and a long black cardigan under a shapeless olive toned overcoat lined with fluffy cream fur on the large lapels.

Movie magic: Some have theorized that Anne's new look is for reshoots from a movie she wrapped over the summer

So busy: The Princess Diaries star has three films on the docket to be released in the coming year

The Oceans 8 stunner looked like she was makeup-free, or at least made up to appear that way for the scene.

The actress was spotted with her traditional brunette hairstyle just a few weeks earlier while attending the Hollywood Film Awards, but has since changed up her tresses to this shade of red.

Theories about her red hair are already starting to surface, with InStyle claiming that a popular theory is her new look is for reshoots of The Last Thing He Wanted.

New look: The 36-year-old was spotted earlier in the week with her new crimson locks

While principal photography wrapped in August, it's possible the look is for reshoots, although her hair is a much deeper red now than it was when she was seen with strawberry blonde hair this summer when they first filmed.

Hathaway is shaping up to have a big year in 2019, with the release of The Last Thing He Wanted and two more high profile movies.

She stars in the thriller Serenity, reuniting with her Interstellar star Matthew McConaughey, in theaters January 25, 2019.

And alongside Rebel Wilson in The Hustle, a gender-swapped reboot of the 1988 classic Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, which arrives May 10, 2019.

Serenity now: A trailer for Hathaway's upcoming thrilled with Matthew McConaughey just dropped this week

Fans got a peek at Matthew McConaughey and Anne Hathaway as plotting exes in a newly-released preview for their thriller-at-sea, Serenity.

They portray a formerly married couple who cross paths again amid dangerous circumstances, according to the official studio synopsis from Aviron Pictures.

McConaughey, 49, plays a fishing boat captain named Baker Dill who takes people on tours to Plymouth Island, a luxe ocean enclave.

His ex-wife Karen (Hathaway) seeks him out in hopes of help to kill her abusive new husband (Jason Clarke) at sea.

====== 418 ========

ROBERT DE NIRO SPLITS WITH WIFE GRACE HIGHTOWER

Robert De Niro has split from his wife Grace Hightower after 21 years of marriage.

The 75-year-old Casino star and his 63-year-old wife Grace 'are no longer living together' according reports in Page Six.

The long-term couple are expected to 'announce their breakup publicly in the coming weeks,' alleged the publication.

Happier times: Robert De Niro and his wife of more than 20 years, Grace Hightower, have split. The couple seen here in April 2018

The Raging Bull star, who shares 20-year-old Elliot and six-year-old Helen with his wife, was spotted on the red carpet on Monday at a MoMa event in New York City without the former flight attendant by his side.

It is not the first split for the couple, who were wed in 1997, before Robert filed for divorce two years into their union however the arrangement was never finalised.

Robert and Grace eventually reunited, renewing their marriage vows in 2004.

The actor is notoriously private about his relationship with Grace but the pair are outspoken about their belief that their son Elliot's autism is linked to vaccinations.

All by myself: De Niro was seen solo at a New York City event on Monday (pictured)

Explaining how Grace believes the his son 'changed overnight' after being vaccinated as a child, Robert told Today in 2017: 'The vaccines are dangerous to certain people who are more susceptible...

'Nobody seems to want to address that, or they say they've addressed it and it's a closed issue but it doesn't seem to be.'

'There are many people who will come out and say I saw my kid change overnight. I saw what happened, I should have done something and I didn't. There's more to this than meets the eye, believe me.'

Family matters: [L-R] Scott J. Campbell, Jarrod Spector, Jessica Keenan Wynn, Robert De Niro, daughter Helen Grace De Niro, Chilina Kennedy, Liz Larsen, Paul Anthony Stewart and Grace Hightower in 2015

Daughter: Drena De Niro seen here in 2016. She was adopted by Robert while he was married to her mother, Diahnne Abbott

The Meet The Parents actor had previously been married to actress Diahnne Abbott, from 1976 to 1988.

The pair had a son, Raphael, in 1976 while the Oscar-winning actor adopted Abbott's daughter Drena from a previous relationship.

The Mean Streets star also has two children with ex Toukie Smith, twin boys Aaron and Julian.

Early days: Robert and Grace seen here at the premiere of Ronin in 1998

The twins: Robert's twin boys Aaron and Julian are seen here in 1998

De Niro spoke about his feelings on marriage in a 2013 interview with Katie Couric.

The star of The Godfather Part II said that the secret to a happy union involved 'a lot of give and take, standing your ground, because then you keep the respect you started out with.'

However, he shared some rather more cautious advice with The Independent in 2014, saying: 'The only thing I would say is that if you get married, it's easier probably not to have children if you're going to split up – it makes life simpler.'

====== 419 ========

TOM BRADY SUGGESTS MARK WAHLBERG SHOULD PLAY HIM IN A BIOPIC

Wahlberg has been seen with Brady after games and they have golfed together

There is not currently any feature film about Tom Brady in the works, but should that project ever arise, the five-time Super Bowl champion would hope longtime New England Patriots fan Mark Wahlberg would be given the title role.

During an interview with Jim Gray on Westwood One radio, the legendary Patriots quarterback named the Massachusetts-born actor when asked who would he want to play him in a theoretical feature film.

After first joking that Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson would be a good choice because they 'have the same physique,' Brady said, 'I'm going to go with Mark Wahlberg – a Boston legend, [from] Dorchester, one of the just "grind it out" kind of guys.

'He'd be my choice.'

Wahlberg previously told the New York Post that he was a fan of Brady's competitive fire.

'Some people are surprised he uses some harsh language,' Wahlberg said in 2014. 'But nobody is more competitive than Tom, whether it's being on the football field or the golf course.'

Brady celebrates with Wahlberg after defeating the Seattle Seahawks 28-24 to win Super Bowl XLIX at University of Phoenix Stadium on February 1, 2015 in Glendale, Arizona

Wahlberg has been pictured with Brady after Super Bowl wins, but after the Patriots' most recent title, the former rapper was nowhere to be found, despite being in attendance earlier that night.

As it turned out, Wahlberg's then-eight-year-old son Brendan was so upset about the Pariots' 25-point deficit, that the two left the game early and never saw the largest comeback in Super Bowl history as the Patriots went on to win in overtime, 34-28.

'He was spitting out F-bombs and going crazy. It was bad,' Wahlberg told Men's Health of his son. 'He was lying down on the carpet. He was very upset.'

Wahlberg did previously play an NFL player in the 2006 movie, Invincible, which was about former bartender-turned-Philadelphia Eagles kick returner Vince Papele.

Brady and the Patriots (7-3) are in action against the rival New York Jets on Sunday in New Jersey.

====== 420 ========

LADY GAGA'S MOM SHARES DETAILS ABOUT HOW THE STAR AND HER FAMILY GIVE BACK FOR THANKSGIVING

Lady Gaga might be sitting on top of the world this year after the incredible success of A Star Is Born but during the holiday's she's all about giving back.

The Mother Monster's own momma, Cynthia Germanotta, shared some details about how her family helps the needy on Thanksgiving in a new interview with Us Weekly.

Cynthia, 64, who helms Gaga's charitable works through her Born This Way Foundation, is spearheading a holiday initiative for the organization called #MultiplyYourGood.

Giving back: Lady Gaga's mom opened up about how the star and her family give back for Thanksgiving in a new interview with Us Weekly

At home, Cynthia, her husband Joe and daughters Natali and Stefani (Lady Gaga) often spend their turkey day ministering to others at soup kitchens in New York.

'The year before last, we did it at the Ali Forney Center in NYC, which is a homeless shelter for LGBT youth,' Germanotta told Us.

'We went there and gave gifts and lots of hugs and spent several hours with the kids talking and meditating, and my daughter played music.'

The #MultiplyYourGood challenge kicked off on November 13th (World Kindness Day!) through December 21st.

Doing good: Lady Gaga and her family, mom Cynthia, sister Natali and dad Joe head to the soup kitchen on Thanksgiving to give back to those in need

It encourages people to 'do an act of good by volunteering or donating to a nonprofit in your community.'

For every act of good pledged, the Born This Way Foundation will 'match it by performing an act of good for one of our amazing nonprofit partners.'

One participant and a guest will get to go to Las Vegas 'to do good with Team BTWF at a day of service and to check out Lady Gaga's new show!'

#MultiplyYourGood: The Born This Way Foundation launched an initiative to match charitable works from Gaga's little monsters through December 21, one participant will go to Las Vegas for one of the star's shows

In addition to the family's charitable works, the Germanotta's are your typical American family on the holidays.

'We all cook together,' Germanotta told Us. 'One year, we had a cook-off to try to make different kinds of turkey and then judge them, so that's always fun.'

She added: 'During the other holidays, our life is centered around food and the giving of food and cooking and baking together.'

Family time: For the rest of the holiday, Cynthia says the Gaga family cooks together

When she was a little Lady Gaga living in New York, the family would traditionally check out the world renowned Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade.

'The Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade was big for us,' said Gaga's mom.

'Even bigger was the night before, when they would blow up the balloons,' she recalled. 'Every year, I'd make a thermos of hot chocolate and we'd walk with the kids. It was just so much fun to see Snoopy come to life in the street.'

====== 421 ========

KIM KARDASHIAN SAYS KANYE IS 'BOTHERED' BY HER SEXY INSTAGRAM SNAPS

She's never been shy about flaunting her famous figure online.

But Kim Kardashian, 38, revealed to Ellen DeGeneres, 60, on Wednesday that she 'gets in trouble' with husband Kanye West, 41, when she posts revealing pictures online because it 'upsets him.'

'You can get in trouble with your husband sometimes over too many photos like that,' the reality TV star said during her appearance on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.

Marital friction: Kim Kardashian revealed to Ellen DeGeneres on Wednesday that she 'gets in trouble' with husband Kanye West when she posts revealing pictures of herself online

Mixed response: Kim's naked selfies often draw both positive and negative reactions

The Keeping Up With The Kardashians mainstay looked sensational for her appearance in a clingy, cream-colored dress.

A low neckline made the most of the socialite's impressive assets, while she clad her feet in clear heels.

Kim wore her straight, raven tresses in a high pony tail as she discussed her rapper husband's reaction to her revealing social media snaps.

Her man: She said her snaps 'upset' her husband (the couple pictured in June 2018)

She elaborated: 'You know, it's like half-and-half. Cause, you know, he always wants me to be me and feel confident and having fun... but it also bothers him'

'I was gonna ask if [pictures like] that... bothered him,' asked Ellen.

'Yeah, it does,' answered the mother-of-three, simply.

She elaborated: 'You know, it's like half-and-half. Cause, you know, he always wants me to be me and feel confident and having fun... but it also bothers him'.

Battle: And Kim explained how she's locked in a 'cycle' of agreeing to be more 'conservative' in her social media posts to please her husband, before wanting to show off her figure and then sharing a photo that leaves Kanye 'upset'

Kim elaborated on Kanye's reactions to her sexy posts: 'You know, it's like half-and-half. Cause, you know, he always wants me to be me and feel confident and having fun... but it also bothers him'

And Kim explained how she's locked in a 'cycle' of agreeing to be more 'conservative' in her social media posts to please her husband, before wanting to show off her figure and then sharing a photo that leaves Kanye 'upset'.

She said: 'I go through waves. Sometimes I'm like, "Ok I'll be more conservative on my Instagram" and sometimes I really need to get something out if I'm feeling good about myself or I've been working out really hard, and I'll post something and he'll get upset. It's a cycle.'

The reality TV star recently admitted she has lost some of her independence since getting married.

She said: 'I think being with a man like Kanye, you have to learn how to be a little bit not-so-independent.

'I've always been so independent and working, and [had a] schedule, and when you get married and have a husband that has their career and then have kids, your independence ... you have to let it go.

'I had to learn that being with a man like Kanye.'

Her biggest fan: Kanye was thrilled when Kim shared this belfie picture back in 2013 and said he was coming straight home to her

The talk show host then played a hilarious prank on the socialite.

When Kim revealed her deep set fear of spiders, Ellen pretended to hold one in her hands and even chased the terrified one-time sex tape starlet into the audience with it.

In a more serious portion of the interview, the TV star opens up about reliving the cheating scandal between Tristan Thompson and her sister Khloe when it aired in-show six months later and shares it’s a form of therapy for her family.

However Kim reveals that Ellen actually may have added fuel to the the familial fire.

'You actually got me blocked [on social media] by Tristan,' the Disaster Movie actress disclosed.

Keeping up appearances: The Keeping Up With The Kardashians mainstay looked sensational for her appearance in a clingy, cream-colored dress

Then, Kim talked about evacuating her home due to the catastrophic wildfires in California and tells Ellen her family hired private firefighters, which helped protect their entire neighborhood from danger.

She also revealed that the private firefighting service they used was recommended to her by a friend who had lost their own home to wildfires in Santa Barbara.

'I feel like we were really blessed to have the help of the firefighters that we did,' said Kim.

Plus, on behalf of Kanye West, Yeezy, and Adidas, Kim announced they are donating $200,000 to California Fire Foundation and an additional $200,000 to California Community Foundation’s Wildfire Relief Fund.

Gag: When Kim revealed her deep set fear of spiders, Ellen pretended to hold one in her hands

Arachnophobia: Ellen even chased the terrified one-time sex tape starlet into the audience with the 'spider'

Sensitive subject: In a more serious portion of the interview, the TV star opens up about reliving the cheating scandal between Tristian Thompson and her sister Khloe

Later in the show, Ellen and Kim welcomed firefighter Michael Williams and his wife Lisa from Oak Park, CA who lost their home in the Woolsey Fire.

Michael and Lisa talked about their decision to stay home and their daring escape as the fires rapidly destroyed their neighborhood.

To help rebuild their lives, Kim presented the couple with a check for $100,000 thanks to the generosity of Kanye West, Yeezy, and Adidas.

====== 422 ========

KOURTNEY KARDASHIAN, 39, SUPPORTS LUKA SABBAT, 20, AFTER THEIR 'SPLIT'

They are reported to have split, after enjoying a brief fling.

But as Luka Sabbat, 20, celebrated his creative label Hot Mess at a party on Monday night, Kourtney Kardashian was there to support him.

The reality star smiled in pictures, taken as she joined Luka's crowd of friends for the event in Los Angeles.

More than friends? Kourtney Kardashian, 39, supports Luka Sabbat, 20, after their 'split' at party to celebrate his creative label in Los Angeles on Monday

On trend: Luka Sabbat hosted the bash to celebrate his creative company Hot Mess with co-founder Noah Dillion; he is seen with Samuel Alemayhu

Night out: Kourtney joined Kaia Gerber, 17, at the event

Wearing leather trousers, a white T-shirt and black jacket, the 39-year-old fitted right in with the younger crowd, who included Luka's model friend Kaia Gerber, 17, daughter of Cindy Crawford.

Their united display came after People magazine reported that Kourtney and Luka had chosen to go their separate ways but still remain on friendly terms with one another.

A source told the publication that 'it was a fun fling for her, but not a big deal,' referring to Kourtney and what she supposedly made of the relationship.

Spot the stars: Wearing leather trousers, a white T-shirt and black jacket, the 39-year-old fitted right in with the younger crowd, who included Luka's model friend Kaia Gerber, 17, daughter of Cindy Crawford

'Down to earth' Luka is said to be a good influence on Kourtney

The insider said: 'She has more important things to focus on, like her kids and work. Kourtney is doing great. She is looking forward to all the fun holidays.'

It's claimed the reality star's friends even encouraged her to continue seeing him, according to sources, having felt that he was exactly what the TV personality needed after her split with Younes Bendjima.

'All of their friends know she's head over heels for Luka,' a source had told PEOPLE before the split.

'None of her friends liked Younes, and they all love Luka even though he's only 20! They think he's good for her, and he's a very down-to-earth and good guy.'

Creative label: It's unclear whether Kourtney's outing with Luka was between two amicable exes or whether the two have reconciled and plan to give their romance another chance

It's unclear whether Kourtney's outing with Luka was between two amicable exes or whether the two have reconciled and plan to give their romance another chance.

Earlier in the evening Kourtney had enjoyed a sushi dinner with her friend Stephanie Shepherd, who previously worked as an assistant for Kim Kardashian.

Stephanie wore black leather leggings with a white T-shirt tucked in, adding black duster coat with silver embellishments and pointed boots.

The two remain close - and even rocked matching looks for Halloween - they were the characters - twins Fook Mi and Fook Yu from Austin Powers: Goldmember.

Stephanie was Kim's assistant from 2013 until 2017; they remain amicable.

Stylish: Kourtney and her pal Stephanie Shepherd were also spotted heading to dinner in Beverly Hills on Monday night

====== 423 ========

DWAYNE 'THE ROCK' JOHNSON SHOWS HIS SOFT SIDE BY LETTING HIS DAUGHTER JASMINE PAINT HIS FACE

Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson is famous for his tough guy roles.

But the 46-year-old action star showed his softer side as he posted a snap to Instagram on Wednesday where he let his daughter Jasmine, two, paint his face before heading off to work.

After Dwayne asked his baby girl for a kiss, the toddler hilariously demanded that she be allowed to paint his face.

The Jumanji star caved in with one mandate: 'Ok, but make sure you choose manly colors that are flattering to my complexion.'

Daddy duty: Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson, 46, posted a snap to Instagram on Wednesday where he let his daughter Jasmine, two, paint his face before heading off to work

And the doting father ended the play-by-play caption with: 'Crazy as this sounds, with my busy life, this is the stuff I actually love.'

In September, he shared a similar posting where the action star was getting his nails painted by burgeoning makeup artist Jasmine.

Dwayne shares both daughters with his current wife Lauren Hashian. He also shares daughter Simone, 17, with first wife Dany Garcia.

The movie star is set to reprise his role as Luke Hobbs in the upcoming spin-off Hobbs & Shaw, alongside Jason Statham's Deckard Shaw, with the film also starring The Crown's Vanessa Kirby and Luther's Idris Elba.

Adorable: Last month, the action star shared a picture of him getting his nails painted by Jasmine

In October, Dwayne gave fans a first look of the movie as he shared a snap of him and Jason, staring each other down.

The black and white image features both of the title characters, Johnson's Luke Hobbs and Jason Statham's Deckard Shaw.

'We either gonna get along or we gonna get it on,' Johnson aid in his post. 'F**k getting along,' he captioned the snap.

'Great first week of shooting our Fast & Furious spin-off, “HOBBS & SHAW” with my ace @JasonStatham,' the star added.

'We’re havin’ a blast disrupting the norm to deliver something fresh, cool, fun and bad ass for the fans,' he concluded.

====== 424 ========

MEL B SHARES SPICE GIRLS THROWBACK WITH HER FRESH-FACED BANDMATES

They're set to reunite next summer for a long-awaited reunion tour.

But Mel B has given fans a Spice Girls throwback to remember, taking to Instagram to share a snap with her fresh-faced bandmates of decades past.

In the snap Mel gushed to fans about she and the band 'never gave up' in their mission to become pop stars, as more than 20 years on fans anticipate their summer reunion tour (without Victoria Beckham).

Old school: Mel B has given fans a Spice Girls throwback to remember, taking to Instagram to share a snap with her fresh-faced bandmates of decades past

In the snap, Mel, Geri Horner, Emma Bunton, Victoria and Mel C can be seen pulling an array of expressions, showing they all shared a close friendship even before their big break as a girl band.

Mel uses the caption to speak candidly about how the band stayed focused on making it big in the music industry even at such a young age, as Girl Power reigned supreme due to their close friendship.

It read: 'Ahhhh My girls the @SpiceGirls!!

Back in the day: In the post, Mel gushed about 'never giving up' as her band vowed to break the big time, adding that 'Girl Power' kept them going (above in 1996)

'All we wanted was for someone to believe in us the Spice Girls coz we all knew we had what it took and much much more.

'We just needed that door to open to spread out our message we waited with such ambition and never gave up,plus we had each other.

'Girl Power is all about being there for each other in the tough times as well as the amazing times,' ending the post with a promotional message for her autobiography.'

Back together: Mel's snap comes after it was confirmed that the band would be reuniting as a foursome for a tour in summer 2019, though Victoria Beckham would not be taking part

Of course The Spice Girls finally earned their big break in 1996, as their debut single Wannabe led them to international stardom.

The throwback comes as fans await the band's long-awaited reunion for a tour in summer next year, following months of speculation over how they would be coming back together.

Following a selfie of all the girls together earlier this year, fans went wild over how the fivesome's reunion would take shape, and whether it would be album, tour, TV special, or something else entirely.

Happy times: The band last came together in 2012 for a one-off performance at the London Olympic closing ceremony

Earlier this month Mel B, Mel C, Emma and Geri confirmed that they would be coming back together for a tour next year, and tickets for the originally eight shows sold out in mere minutes.

Since then the band have added yet more dates totalling twelve shows, playing in areas such as Manchester, London and Cardiff.

However Victoria will be absent from the tour, though she still took time to release a statement regarding the news.

Thrilled: Speculation that the band would reunite had been mounting since 2016, and the news that they would be heading on tour sent fans wild earlier this month

Spice Girls Reunion Tour - The Dates Monday 27th May: Cardiff - Principality Stadium Wednesday 29th May: Manchester - Etihad Stadium Friday 31st May: Manchester - Etihad Stadium Saturday 1st June: Manchester - Etihad Stadium Monday 3rd June: Coventry - Ricoh Stadium Tuesday 4th June: Coventry - Ricoh Stadium Thursday 6th June: Sunderland - Stadium Of Light Saturday 8th June: Edinburgh - BT Murrayfield Stadium Monday 10th June: Bristol - Ashton Gate Stadium Thursday 13th June: London - Wembley Stadium Friday 14th June: London - Wembley Stadium Saturday 15th June: London - Wembley Stadium

Taking to Instagram, she said: 'Being in the Spice Girls was a hugely important part of my life and I wish my girls so much love and fun as they go back on tour,' said the mother-of-four.

'I know they will put on an amazing show and the fantastic fans past and present are going to have a wonderful time!'

Mel B teased that Victoria will be joining them on their Wembley date, but her spokesperson has insisted she was just being playful.

Meanwhile, Mel C recently revealed during an interview with the Spice Girls on the Jonathan Ross Show that Victoria pointed out she was 'never actually asked' if she wanted to return to the girlband.

She explained: 'Do you know what is actually quite funny… I saw Victoria recently and obviously we’ve all been in contact, she is still very much a part of the Spice Girls, she really supports us and we really support her.

'But she did raise the point that she was never actually asked. We just presumed.'

This caused an interjection from Emma, in disagreement to Mel, insisting that she was indeed asked.

Free agent: Victoria, 44, confirmed in a statement that she would not be joining the band on their 2019 tour

'She just didn’t want to do it… She was busy with her fashion and she has moved on.

'The philosophy of us lot is that we are a band, on and off the stage and we care each other, we support each other and we support her and she has been a huge part of our lives and we care about her so it’s all good.'

Geri added: 'I spoke to her two days ago, before the announcement, and she has said it for years that she just doesn’t want to do it anymore, so we knew that.'

Since the girls' last reformation - 2012's performance at the London Olympic Games closing ceremony - rumours have swirled about the band's potential reformation for a full tour, sparking further whispers that Victoria was never a fan of performing.

Geri cleared this matter up when asked by Jonathan: 'No, and you don’t want to make somebody do something they don’t want to do.'

====== 425 ========

ROD STEWART, 73, SPORTS QUIRKY OUTFIT AS HE JOINS SON SEAN, 24, FOR SHOPPING SPREE IN BEVERLY HILLS

He has spoken candidly of being a father to eight children and insisted his brood of all ages keeps him a 'kid at heart'.

And catching up with his son Sean Stewart, 38, in Beverly Hills on Wednesday, Rod Stewart caught the eye in an eccentric ensemble that saw him don a pair of zebra-print trainers and aviator shades that boasted red mirrored lenses.

Clad in an all-white ensemble, the Maggie May crooner, 73, embarked on a shopping spree with son Sean - whom he shares with his ex-wife Alana Stewart.

Rod Stewart caught the eye in an eccentric ensemble as he stepped out in Beverly Hills for a shopping spree with his son Sean

Stepping out in Los Angeles, Rod favoured a smart look that paired together white jeans with a granddad collared shirt tucked into the waistband of his denim.

He sported a leather belt around the band of his jeans and threw a cream blazer atop his ensemble, along with a monochrome neck-tie.

Although, it was Rod's choice in accessories that turned heads, as the singer opted to hide behind a stand-out pair of red aviator shades, while sporting a pair of zebra printed hi-top trainers.

Family bonding: Rod was joined by his eldest son Sean, 38, who cut a casual figure in a hooded sweatshirt and navy shorts

Head-turner: Stepping out in Los Angeles, Rod favoured a smart look that paired together white jeans with a granddad collared shirt tucked into the waistband of his denim

He pulled a pair of Adidas socks up to his ankles and seemed to narrowly avoid a mishap, as his laces appeared to be undone.

Rod appeared relaxed and perfectly content as he stepped out with son Sean - who cut a casual figure in black hooded sweatshirt that featured checkered detailing on the sleeves, navy shorts and white sliders.

Rod shares son Sean with his first wife Alana. The duo were married for five years and are also parents to daughter Kimberley Stewart, 39.

Singing sensation Rod has fathered eight children in total, including two children during his second marriage with Rachel Hunter, daughter Renee, 26, and son Liam, 24. The pair were married for nine years from 1990-1999 and eventually divorced in 2006.

Finishing touches: He sported a leather belt around the band of his jeans and threw a cream blazer atop his ensemble, along with a monochrome neck-tie

Stealing attention: Although, it was Rod's choice in accessories that turned heads, as the singer opted to hide behind a stand-out pair of red aviator shades

Oops: He pulled a pair of Adidas socks up to his ankles and seemed to narrowly avoid a mishap, as his laces appeared to be undone

Rod shares daughter Ruby, 31, with his model ex Kelly Emberg and has two boys with his current wife, Penny Lancaster; sons Alastair, 12, and Aidan, seven.

His first child - Sarah Streeter, 55, from his romance with then-art student Susannah Boffey - was given up for adoption after he fathered her at age 18.

Proud father Rod has openly championed the varying ages of his children, claiming it has kept him a 'child at heart'.

Speaking of his youngest children whom he shares with Penny, Rod gushed: ‘They're all adorable, the seven and twelve year old really take up a lot of my time - that's why I've got my injured foot!'

Touching upon his full brood, he then admitted: 'They are of different ages, all the way from the 20s to the 30s. It keeps me a kid as well at heart.'

History: Rod shares son Sean with his first wife Alana - the duo were married for five years and are also parents to daughter Kimberley Stewart, 39

Proud father Rod is dad to eight children; daughters Sarah Streeter, 55, Ruby, 31, Kimberley Stewart, 39, Renee, 26, and sons, Sean, 38, Liam, 24, Alistar, 12, and Aidan, seven

He appeared on ITV's Loose Women in early November and spoke about fatherhood, along with the IVF journey he and wife Penny embarked on to have their youngest son Aidan.

Speaking of the process, Rod said: 'She analysed the sperm on a big screen and said... a lot of them don't really have wings. We [were] just waiting for one to go up and we said, "Look at this one - it's swimming up there!"' We got that one sperm and that one sperm turned out to be our little son Aiden!'

Rod had appeared alongside wife Penny, who is a regular panellist on the show, with the duo touching on the star cheating on her during the beginning of their relationship.

Quizzed on his infidelity, Rod said: 'You are talking a long time ago, nearly 20 odd years - there was one dalliance, yeah. But other than that we've been together and it's been wonderful,' before jokingly asking wife Penny: 'Is that the answer?'

Loving it: Proud father Rod has openly championed the varying ages of his children, claiming it has kept him a 'child at heart'

Sweet: Rod welcomed his youngest child Aidan, seven, via IVf treatment with wife Penny

Honest: Rod recently opened up about his infidelity as he discussed being unfaithful to wife Penny during an appearance on ITV's Loose Women in early November

He revealed that the blonde beauty had given him an ultimatum, adding: 'She did, she put her thumb down and said, "It's me, nobody else - no sharing." And it's been that way ever since.'

Asked how he reacted to Penny's ultimatum, a smitten Rod responded: 'I realised what a brave, wonderful and honest woman she is.'

Penny, meanwhile, said: 'He tried tell me it was one his daughter’s friends but I knew it wasn't and gave him an ultimatum there and then.

'I told him I don't want to be a girlfriend. I want to be THE girlfriend.'

Rod and Penny tied the knot in 2007 in a ceremony held in Portofino, Italy - almost a decade after they first began dating in 1999.

====== 426 ========

IVANKA TRUMP AND HER KIDS TOUCHDOWN FOR THANKSGIVING IN MAR-A-LAGO

The mother-of-three pulled her long blonde hair back with a $170 Lele Sadoughi black velvet headband adorned with sparkly studs

Jared Kushner has earlier joined his wife and their three kids, Arabella, Joseph and Theodore, for the turkey pardoning in the Rose Garden

Ivanka, 37, and her three children were accompanied by sister Tiffany Trump, 25, as they touched down in Palm Beach on Tuesday evening

Ivanka Trump touched down in Palm Beach on Tuesday ahead of the Thanksgiving holiday, accompanied by her three children and her sister Tiffany.

The fashionable first family was pictured disembarking Air Force One as they arrived in Mar-a-Lago ahead of the festivities.

Mother-of-three Ivanka, 37, pulled her long blonde hair back with a $170 Lele Sadoughi black velvet headband adorned with sparkly studs.

Like their mother, the Trump-Kushner children Arabella, Joseph and Theodore were also dressed up, having attended the annual Thanksgiving turkey pardoning at the White House earlier in the day.

Arabella, seven, looked darling in a cornflower blue coat and silver ballet flats, however she removed the warm outerwear before touching down in Florida, and was seen stepping off the plane in a floral blue dress.

Meanwhile her younger brothers Joseph, five, and Theodore, two, were the spitting image of their father in their smart navy blue ensembles.

Scroll down for video

Ivanka Trump lands in Palm Beach aboard Air Force One with her children and accompanied by her sister Tiffany Trump

The first family was pictured together as they stepped out of Air Force One in Mar-a-Lago

Tiffany smiles for the camera as she departs Air Force One Tuesday in Palm Beach

Summer state-of-mind? Tiffany, 25, wore an asymmetrical pink coat over what looked like a lace dress as she set off for Mar-a-Lago

Frolicking: The mom took Arabella, seven, Joseph, five, and Theodore, two, to see the turkey ahead of ceremony, which was held in the Rose Garden before they jet off to Mar-a-Lago

Ivanka along with husband Jared Kushner had earlier taken her three children to see the turkey ahead of the pardoning at the White House, and little Theodore was particularly enamored with the bird.

At one point, she bent down to hold her youngest son while he pointed at the turkey, possibly trying to touch its feathers.

Before the ceremony, Ivanka was seen cuddling Theodore on her lap, resting her chin on the back of the little boy's head.

When Jared, 37, came to join them, he let Joseph sit on his lap, and he was seen giving his eldest son a sweet kiss on the cheek.

Meanwhile, Tiffany appeared unbothered by the impending winter cold spell as she wore a pink coat that fell just above her knees while attending the presentation of the National Thanksgiving Turkey on Tuesday.

The 25-year-old first daughter wore an asymmetrical pink coat with what looks to be a lace slip dress underneath and peach handbag as she celebrated the turkey pardon with her family in the Rose Garden of the White House.

It appeared Tiffany and Ivanka might have collaborated on hair accessories as they both secured their long blonde locks with glitzy headbands.

Besides the headband, the Georgetown Law student added another blinged-out accent to her ensemble with her gold shoes.

But it appeared to be newer shoes that the first daughter was wearing because there was still a sticker stuck underneath the bottom of the shoe.

Missing something? The gold heels paired with the outfit appeared to be bought recently as Tiffany forgot to take off one of the tags

Sister, sister: She was pictured with half-sister Ivanka Trump, 37, as they walked to Air Force One after the ceremony to head to Mar-a-Lago

Bare: Despite the cold temperatures in Washington, D.C., Tiffany chose not to cover her legs, and wore just a pink asymmetrical blazer to keep warm

Matchy matchy: The women donned similar glitzy headbands for the outing

All smiles: Both of the sisters looked in high spirits as they left to go celebrate the long holiday

Laughing: Tiffany kept her outfit around pink and gold colors when attending the event

Tiffany was pictured walking alongside her half-sister Ivanka as they made their way across Andrews Air Force Base to Air Force One. The first family will be spending their Thanksgiving long weekend at Mar-a-Lago.

Ivanka appeared to be more dressed for the cold weather in Washington, D.C. as she journeyed to Air Force One with her half sister.

Her outfit included a plaid coat over a black mock-neck pencil dress, topping off the look with a pair burgundy of knee-high leather boots.

President Donald Trump pardoned Peas the Thanksgiving turkey on Tuesday in a ceremony filled with tongue-in-cheek jokes about vote counting, recounts, subpoenas, and judicial power.

'I am pleased to announce that today's lucky bird and guest of honor is named Peas along with his alternate named Carrots,' Trump said with First Lady Melania Trump at his side.

'The winner of this vote was decided by a fair and open election conducted on the White House website. This was a fair election,' he joked. 'Unfortunately, Carrots refused to concede and demanded a recount and we are fighting with Carrots.

'We have come to a conclusion. Carrots, I'm sorry to tell you the result did not change. Too bad for Carrots.'

Outfit of the day: Ivanka was seen arriving with her husband, wearing a plaid coat and knee-high boots

Added touch: Ivanka pulled her long blonde hair back with a $ 170 Lele Sadoughi black velvet headband adorned with sparkly studs

The president also got in a few jokes about the recent midterm election, which saw Democrats win control of the House of Representatives and the state of Florida undergo a lengthy recount process.

'Even though Peas and Carrots have received a presidential pardon, I have warned them that House Democrats are likely to issue them both subpoenas,' he said.

'None the less in the spirit of Thanksgiving, I will be issuing both Peas and Carrots a presidential pardon. Unfortunately. I can't guarantee that they won't be enjoined by the ninth circuit. Always happens. They are guaranteed,' he added. 'All joking aside, this is a time for Americans to unite together.'

The birds are the first from South Dakota to be given a presidential pardon.

Peas is 30 inches tall, weighs 39 pounds, and likes to eat popcorn, according to the White House. Carrots, meanwhile, is 32 inches tall, weighs 41 pounds and prefers to snack on M&Ms.

The first lady stood by her husband's side during the pardoning, looking chic in a $9,400 Dior coat featuring a red, black, and white geometric pattern.

She paired the look from the fashion house's Pre-Fall 2018/Winter 2019 collection with sky-high Christian Louboutin boots.

All together: Ivanka attended the presentation of the National Thanksgiving Turkey with her family

Special treat: The Trump-Kushner children seemed enamored with the bird

Good spirits: Ivanka has a bright smile on her face as she played with her kids

Family gathering: The first daughter was also joined by her husband, White House senior adviser Jared Kushner

Mom on duty: The White House senior adviser was seen arriving with her children

====== 427 ========

KARLIE KLOSS SHOWS OFF HER NEWLYWED GLOW DURING MUSIC EVENT

She recently tied the knot with Joshua Kushner during a romantic ceremony in up-state New York.

And Karlie Kloss certainly had the newlywed glow, as she attended the Interscope Records And Beats Present The Antares Experience - release party in the Big Apple on Tuesday.

The supermodel, 26, accentuated her statuesque frame in a chic all-black ensemble as she posed alongside singer and model, Kris Wu.

Happy: Karlie Kloss certainly had the newlywed glow, as she attended the Interscope Records And Beats Present The Antares Experience release party in the Big Apple on Tuesday

Karlie looked sensational as she clad her physique in a chic black dress, which she teamed with a matching leather coat.

The catwalk queen's blonde locks were slicked back to show off her striking, chiselled features.

Karlie's 6ft 2in height was boosted in a pair of leopard print heels as she attended the event.

The beauty was joined by Kris, who put on a trendy display in an all-white look, complete with red shoes.

Looking good: The supermodel, 26, accentuated her statuesque frame in a chic all-black ensemble as she posed alongside singer and model, Kris Wu

Entertainer: Kris put on a trendy display in an all-white look and bandana as he performed for the crowd

L-R: Eloi Yang, Michelle Teh, Kris Wu, Garand Wu and Chole Pearson

Meanwhile, Karlie and Joshua were married in upstate New York on October 18, six years after they first began dating.

According to the Jewish Telegraphic Agency , the couple wed in a Jewish ceremony - Kloss reportedly converted in June before the couple became engaged.

Her good friend Derek Blasberg also attended, and after the ceremony wrote: 'I'm a bigger man for watching my little sister become a real wifey today.'

The couple, who are notoriously private, have been dating since 2012, and refuse to even pose together at most events.

It was not until 2015 that Josh was even spotted out at an event with Karlie when the two attended at the Met Gala.

I Do: Karlie and Joshua Kushner were married in upstate New York on October 18, six years after they first began dating

Even then, Kushner did not walk the carpet with Kloss, choosing instead to let his girlfriend pose for the photographers while he ran inside.

The supermodel has also made it clear that the details of her private life are not something that she will be sharing with fans now or in the future.

'It’s not like I’ve ever wanted to be so secretive about my private life,' she recently said in an interview with Porter.

'Carolina Herrera always says, "A woman who’s an open book is boring." There’s no mystery anymore. I know in my life what really matters to me. I’m not trying to hide that from the world; I just really like having a more private private life.' She then added: 'I’ve got nothing to hide, though!'

====== 428 ========

THE CONNERS SPOILER: BECKY REVEALS MAJOR LIFE-CHANGING NEWS

WARNING: Spoilers ahead

Becky Conner revealed that she is pregnant on Monday’s episode of The Conners.

The 43-year-old waitress, a recovering alcoholic, had been told by doctors she only had a five percent chance of conceiving - but a 'one night stand' beat the odds.

Becky (Lecy Goranson) was feeling unwell, which her father Dan (John Goodman) suspected was a hangover, which caused her to reveal she's expecting.

The stork is on the way! Becky Conner (Alicia Goranson) revealed that she is pregnant on Monday’s episode of The Conners

'I'm pregnant!' she yelled. 'I had unsafe sex and it worked!'

Darlene (Sara Gilbert) responded, 'You should speak at the high school,' to which Becky sighed, 'God, I wish mom was here.'

The widowed waitress decided she wasn’t going to reveal to her family the identity of the father.

'It was a one night stand,' she told her family.

Face-off: Becky and her father Dan (John Goodman) were at loggerheads over her sickness at the beginning of the episode, as he suspected she was drinking again

Queasy: Becky struggled with her stomach as she took orders from a table of Dan, Jackie (Laurie Metcalf), Darlene (Sara Gilbert) and Neil (Justin Long)

Lots of laughs: The trio of stars have picked up the comedic slack since Roseanne's exodus from the series

Different strokes: Jackie and Darlene shared a chuckle as they talked about their relationships

Dan immediately fired her from her gig at the construction site, to protect the baby’s health.

'When I first found out I was so excited, then I realized that I’m 43, on my own and broke,' Becky told Jackie [Laurie Metcalf].

Becky revealed that the father could be one of two men she worked with at the restaurant: the manager, Ramon, or Emilio, the bus boy. After Ramon claimed he'd had a vasectomy, Emilio was revealed as her unborn baby's father.

Becky openly worried about her finances as she chatted her friends, with a couple interested in adopting the child.

'I don’t know if I can afford this baby,' she told the couple, who talked about a potential adoption plan.

Emotional: Becky was not happy with the reactions she received as she told her family about her pregnancy

It's not you, it's me: Darlene broke up with Neil because he was too submissive to her

Becky later had a heart-to-heart with Dan about parenthood.

'When you and mom found out you were going to have me, did you freak out?' she asked.

He replied, smirking: 'Only a little, because we didn’t know how bad you were going to turn out.

'The truth is I remember thinking, "Oh my God, I’ve got to be a grown up now," I’ve got to buy life insurance, mutual funds, save for college, but after a couple of years that panic just goes away and you just forget about that stuff.'

Becky noted, ‘At least you had mom to go through it with.'

Dan replied, 'Yeah, two parents isn’t the worst thing in the world.'

Pointers: Dan checked out the crime magazine Darlene later got a gig at

Star power: Long is one of the big name guest stars who have appeared on The Conners in the wake of Roseanne's ouster, as Matthew Broderick and Juliette Lewis have been linked with the spin-off series

Darlene’s new boyfriend Neil (Justin Long) also made an appearance.

'I’m a preschool teacher … we try to inspire the children’s imagination with non specific, gender neutral, tactile objects,’ he said.

Jackie thought that Neil was eerily similar to Darlene’s ex-husband David (played by Johnny Galecki) in their passive personalities.

'She's controlling Neil the same way she controlled David,' Jackie said of Darlene, who eventually split with Neil because of the personality factor.

Darlene applied for a job at a crime magazine called Lock 'Em Up headed by an editor named Ben (Jay R. Ferguson).

Heart-to-heart: Dan and Becky chat over a milkshake at the conclusion of the episode

Heart and humor: The show has continued in the Roseanne tradition of serious storylines peppered with moments of comic relief

Bravo! The actors posed for the studio audience at the end of the show

The two butted heads over how Darlene wanted to re-purpose the mugshot magazine as more sophisticated.

'I think I could really make the arsonists and carjackers people you would want to know,' she told Ben.

Once in the position, she insisted she start a website for the publication.

As she and Ben headed out for a post-work meal, Darlene began telling him about what was socially proper to eat for dinner, to which he pushed back.

‘Oh you’re mistaking me for a child,' he said, 'when actually I’m a grown a** adult.'

The Conners continues next week on ABC at 8/7c.

====== 429 ========

KIM KARDASHIAN SAYS RELIVING CHEATING DRAMA IS 'AWKWARD' FOR TRISTAN

Being a Kardashian means reliving every family celebration - and drama - months later on TV.

And this is proving rather 'awkward' for Tristan Thompson - who was caught cheating on his girlfriend Khloe Kardashian just hours before she gave birth.

Carefully watching her words, Khloe's sister Kim told chatshow host Ellen DeGeneres: 'It is awkward, especially for maybe Tristan, who isn't used to this.'

What can he expect? Kim Kardashian reveals reliving cheating drama on KUWTK is 'awkward' for Tristan Thompson, as she talks to Ellen DeGeneres

'Awkward' Tristan Thompson is seen at Khloe Kardashian's bedside as she gives birth

But, said Kim, that's how the Kardashians roll.

'Unfortunately, that was what's going on in our lives. Six months later it replays, and they've gotten through what they needed to get through, and it's rehashed in front of everyone, and everyone's giving their opinions all over again, and we're live tweeting, and everyone's chiming in.'

But, says Kim, while it can be hard, there are positives from the experience.

'That is hard for Khloé and I'm sure for Tristan, but it's our reality, and we've learned to kind of use it as a therapy, just to kind of get it out one last time with everyone else.'

Family: Khloe and Tristan, seen with daughter True, worked through their issues, and are now reliving them on TV

And the family do not remove anything before broadcast, even if it might be difficult for those involved.

'We all do edit the show, but there's nothing really that we've taken out. So we will let everyone watch and be like, "Okay, this is what I said about you, and this is how I feel about you or felt about you,"' she said. 'It is what it is.'

Kim, 38, also told Ellen, 60, on Wednesday that she 'gets in trouble' with husband Kanye West, 41, when she posts revealing pictures online because it 'upsets him.'

'You can get in trouble with your husband sometimes over too many photos like that,' the reality TV star said.

Marital friction: Kim Kardashian revealed to Ellen DeGeneres on Wednesday that she 'gets in trouble' with husband Kanye West when she posts revealing pictures of herself online

Mixed response: Kim's naked selfies often draw both positive and negative reactions

The Keeping Up With The Kardashians mainstay looked sensational for her appearance in a clingy, cream-colored dress.

A low neckline made the most of the socialite's impressive assets, while she clad her feet in clear heels.

Kim wore her straight, raven tresses in a high pony tail as she discussed her rapper husband's reaction to her revealing social media snaps.

Her man: She said her snaps 'upset' her husband (the couple pictured in June 2018)

She elaborated: 'You know, it's like half-and-half. Cause, you know, he always wants me to be me and feel confident and having fun... but it also bothers him'

'I was gonna ask if [pictures like] that... bothered him,' asked Ellen.

'Yeah, it does,' answered the mother-of-three, simply.

She elaborated: 'You know, it's like half-and-half. Cause, you know, he always wants me to be me and feel confident and having fun... but it also bothers him'.

Battle: And Kim explained how she's locked in a 'cycle' of agreeing to be more 'conservative' in her social media posts to please her husband, before wanting to show off her figure and then sharing a photo that leaves Kanye 'upset'

Kim elaborated on Kanye's reactions to her sexy posts: 'You know, it's like half-and-half. Cause, you know, he always wants me to be me and feel confident and having fun... but it also bothers him'

And Kim explained how she's locked in a 'cycle' of agreeing to be more 'conservative' in her social media posts to please her husband, before wanting to show off her figure and then sharing a photo that leaves Kanye 'upset'.

She said: 'I go through waves. Sometimes I'm like, "Ok I'll be more conservative on my Instagram" and sometimes I really need to get something out if I'm feeling good about myself or I've been working out really hard, and I'll post something and he'll get upset. It's a cycle.'

The reality TV star recently admitted she has lost some of her independence since getting married.

She said: 'I think being with a man like Kanye, you have to learn how to be a little bit not-so-independent.

'I've always been so independent and working, and [had a] schedule, and when you get married and have a husband that has their career and then have kids, your independence ... you have to let it go.

'I had to learn that being with a man like Kanye.'

Her biggest fan: Kanye was thrilled when Kim shared this belfie picture back in 2013 and said he was coming straight home to her

Keeping up appearances: The Keeping Up With The Kardashians mainstay looked sensational for her appearance in a clingy, cream-colored dress

The talk show host then played a hilarious prank on the socialite.

When Kim revealed her deep set fear of spiders, Ellen pretended to hold one in her hands and even chased the terrified one-time sex tape starlet into the audience with it.

Kim also talked about evacuating her home due to the catastrophic wildfires in California and tells Ellen her family hired private firefighters, which helped protect their entire neighborhood from danger.

She also revealed that the private firefighting service they used was recommended to her by a friend who had lost their own home to wildfires in Santa Barbara.

'I feel like we were really blessed to have the help of the firefighters that we did,' said Kim.

Plus, on behalf of Kanye West, Yeezy, and Adidas, Kim announced they are donating $200,000 to California Fire Foundation and an additional $200,000 to California Community Foundation's Wildfire Relief Fund.

Gag: When Kim revealed her deep set fear of spiders, Ellen pretended to hold one in her hands

Arachnophobia: Ellen even chased the terrified one-time sex tape starlet into the audience with the 'spider'

Sensitive subject: In a more serious portion of the interview, the TV star opens up about reliving the cheating scandal between Tristian Thompson and her sister Khloe

Later in the show, Ellen and Kim welcomed firefighter Michael Williams and his wife Lisa from Oak Park, CA who lost their home in the Woolsey Fire.

Michael and Lisa talked about their decision to stay home and their daring escape as the fires rapidly destroyed their neighborhood.

To help rebuild their lives, Kim presented the couple with a check for $100,000 thanks to the generosity of Kanye West, Yeezy, and Adidas.

====== 430 ========

DIOR IS SLAMMED FOR MEXICAN-INSPIRED CAMPAIGN WITH JENNIFER LAWRENCE

Dior has come under fire for having Jennifer Lawrence star in a fashion campaign that aims to celebrate Mexican culture.

Critics have accused both the brand and actress of cultural appropriation in response to the campaign featuring the Dior Cruise 2019 collection, which was influenced by escaramuzas, Mexican horsewomen who perform in a rodeo-like sport called charreada.

'One of the main inspirations for this collection is the traditional women riders of Mexico, so I am really excited that this collection is looking at and celebrating these women's heritage through such a modern lens,' Jennifer, 28, says in a behind-the-scenes interview.

Scroll down for video

Face of the brand: Jennifer Lawrence, 28, stars is the new Dior Cruise 2019 campaign

Inspiration: The collection was influenced by escaramuzas, Mexican horsewomen who perform in a rodeo-like sport called charreada

Say what? Critics are outraged that a white actress stars in the campaign meant to celebrate Mexican heritage

Although Jennifer has been the face of the brand since 2012, many were outraged that Dior cast a white woman in a campaign meant to honor Mexican heritage.

'In the latest installment of white women and dusty a** fashion houses making poor choices: Dior's new collection was inspired by Mexican riders so they got Jennifer Lawrence as the model because of course they did,' one person tweeted.

'The @Dior campaign with Jennifer Lawrence is a great example of how idiotic marketing teams can turn great social movements into bad marketing,' someone else added.

'Get a Mexican model. This is so far off the mark it’s crazy and I can’t believe more people aren’t discussing it. This is Pepsi bad.'

During her interview, Jennifer also reveals that the campaign was shot in California — not Mexico.

Awkward: In a behind-the-scenes interview, Jennifer says she is excited that the collection is 'celebrating these women's heritage through such a modern lens'

Outrage: Phoebe Robinson, a comedian and host of the 2 Dope Queens podcast, took to Instagram to slam the brand for failing to cast a Mexican model

'We've been shooting in a beautiful ranch in California with rolling hills, and I can't think of a better landscape to highlight this collection,' she gushes, leaving critics baffles by her thoughtless comments.

'Well this is super f****d up! This collection was inspired by "women riders in Mexico" but is faced by Jennifer Lawrence and the shoot took place in California.....for real @Dior???' Margot Wall tweeted.

Phoebe Robinson, a comedian and host of the 2 Dope Queens podcast, took to Instagram to slam the brand for failing to cast a Mexican model and shooting the campaign in California.

'Sooooooooo, #Dior & #JenniferLawrencewanna celebrate traditional Mexican women riders thru a "modern lens"...by having a rich white woman named Jennifer be the face of this campaign?' she wrote.

Strike two: The campaign shoot took place in California — not Mexico

'Get a Mexican model': People have been taking to social media to criticize Dior for casting Jennifer, with some accusing the brand of cultural appropriation

'And like they couldn’t think of a better landscape to shoot than in California?! Hmm, I dunno, maybe...like...shoot...in...Mexico...with...a...Mexican...actress like Salma Hayek, Karla Souza, Jessica Alba, Selena Gomez, Eva Longoria, or many others,' she added.

'But I guess they were all unavailable, so you had to go with Jennifer Lawrence. The audacity to call this s**t modern because it’s worn by a white woman is ignorant and gross, but unfortunately, not surprising.'

Despite the backlash, some fans praised Dior for celebrating another culture, while others pointed out that Jennifer has been working with the label for six years.

One Jennifer Lawrence fan account was among those to note that black model Selena Forrest also stars in the campaign.

Defending Jennifer: One Jennifer Lawrence fan account was among those to note that black model Selena Forrest also stars in the campaign

Question: One person asked why people are only upset about Jennifer modeling the clothes

Respect: When Dior unveiled the collection in May, the brand flew in eight women from Mexico to wear the designs and ride horses in unison while models walked the runway (pictured)

Popular design: Both Michelle Obama (left) and Solange Knowles (right) have modeled the same corset from the collection on their respective magazines covers in recent months

Homage: The brand revealed on Sunday that the latest issue of Dior Magazine features exclusive stories shot in Mexico by Mexican female photographers

Vision: Tania Franco Klein (center) was one of photographers chosen to interpret the Dior Cruise 2019 collection

'Is this only about Jennifer Lawrence being in the ads?' someone else asked. 'If this was really about cultural appropriation that would be the clothes, and nobody is even talking about them. There are shots of an African-Am model in the same clothes. Is she also a problem?'

When Dior’s creative director Maria Grazia Chiuri unveiled the collection in May, the brand flew in eight women from Mexico to wear the designs and ride horses in unison while models walked down the runway.

Both Michelle Obama and Solange Knowles have modeled the same corset from the collection on their respective magazines covers in recent months.

Dior has yet to address the controversy, but the brand revealed on Sunday that the latest issue of Dior Magazine features exclusive stories shot in Mexico by Mexican female photographers, including Maya Goded, Paola Vivas, Christina De Middel, and Tania Franco Klein.

DailyMail.com has reached out Dior for comment.

====== 431 ========

MEGHAN MARKLE HEADS BACK TO GRENFELL KITCHEN

The pregnant Duchess of Sussex today made an emotional return visit to a community kitchen which inspired her collaborative work on a Grenfell Tower charity cookbook, telling the women: 'I'm so proud of you.'

Meghan went to the Hubb Community Kitchen, not far from the site of the deadly tower block blaze in West London, to see first hand the progress made since the Together cookbook went on sale in September.

The mother-to-be was greeted warmly by kitchen co-ordinator Zaheera Sufyaan - whom she gave a big hug - and Abdurahman Sayed, chief executive of the Al Manaar Muslim Cultural Centre in North Kensington.

Meghan, who has been making private visits to the kitchen since January, quickly abandoned any formality when she got inside. She threw her arms around each of the women and kissed them, chattering excitedly about what they had been up to since she last saw them. 'Hi, how are you? Wow, it's so quiet in here,' she said, giggling.

Wearing a burgundy dress and coat by Club Monaco, a Canadian company now owned by US fashion giant Polo Ralph Lauren, Meghan soon put on an apron, rolled up her sleeves and got stuck into helping prepare food.

She said to a group of women: 'It starts from one idea and from this one idea starts so much. I'm so proud of you.'

The book - full title Together: Our Community Cookbook - took the number one spot on Amazon within hours of being unveiled two months ago and has since sold nearly 40,000 copies in the UK, raising £210,000.

Meghan hugs Zaheera Sufyaan, who is part of the Hubb Community Kitchen in West London as she visits the centre today

Meghan warmly hugs Ms Sufyaan, the kitchen coordinator and one of her collaborators on the book

Meghan, Duchess of Sussex poses for a group photo with members of the Hubb Community Kitchen in London this morning

The cookbook featured more than 50 recipes from women whose community was affected by the Grenfell Tower fire

Meghan, whose first baby with Prince Harry is due in the spring, holds her bump today as she talks to the chefs

Meghan speaks with chef Clare Smyth (right) as they visit the Hubb Community Kitchen in West London this morning

Wearing a burgundy dress and coat by Club Monaco, Meghan got involved in helping prepare the food this morning

Kitchen co-ordinator Ms Sufyaan waves to the cameras as she and Meghan enter the community kitchen in London today

Bumper sales of the cookbook, which features more than 50 recipes from women whose community was affected by the fire, have allowed a total makeover of the kitchen as well as longer opening hours.

Meghan, who suggested the idea of a fundraising cookbook when she first met the women, has previously described it as a 'tremendous labour of love'.

The kitchen, redesigned with the women's input to capture its spirit as a place for the community to come together over meals, now opens seven days a week, up from just two when it began last year.

Those involved have also been able to obtain food hygiene qualifications and been empowered to start their own projects for the benefit of the wider community.

Projects, supported by the social entrepreneur foundation UnLtd, include a group for women affected by domestic violence, a scheme to deliver freshly cooked meals for women on maternity wards, and a project to produce healthy treats for children.

Today, 200 meals being prepared in the kitchen were destined for local groups, including elderly people's homes, homeless shelters and women's refuges. The dishes include Egyptian lamb fattah, Persian chicken and barberry rice.

The meals she helped prepare today included rainbow roasted vegetables, a recipe in the book from Ahlam Saeid, an Iraqi chemist, who stood chatting to the Duchess as she mixed the vegetables.

Meghan drank ginger tea as she spoke to some of the women who have been motivated to go on and develop further projects including making healthy snacks for children, and preparing food for the homeless.

The Duchess of Sussex wears a ring with a heart-shaped detail as she visits the Hubb Community Kitchen this morning

The Duchess of Sussex arrives at the Hubb Community Kitchen in North Kensington this morning

The women were preparing 200 meals in just one day, to be delivered to local groups, including elderly people's homes

Together has sold more than 40,000 copies in the UK and raised £210,000 so far in the seven weeks since it went on sale

The new facilities provide a safe and professional space for the women to cook, gather and run activities in their community

Previously the kitchen was only able to open two days a week due to funding - but now this has gone up to seven days

Meghan helped prepare the food as she introduced chef Clare Smyth (far left), a friend of hers, to volunteers in the kitchen

The Duchess of Sussex has a drink as she visits the Hubb Community Kitchen in West Loidon this morning

The duchess smiled as she met the women as they prepared fresh meals for the community in the newly renovated kitchen

Together has appeared in the Sunday Times and New York Times Bestseller lists, selling tens of thousands of copies

She also introduced chef Clare Smyth, a friend of hers, to the volunteers in the kitchen. Smiling, Meghan said: 'I'm so proud of you. It's really exciting.'

The people involved in the kitchen are 'incredible', said Ms Smyth, who visited the kitchen for the first time with Meghan.

Meghan drank ginger tea as she spoke to some of the women who have been motivated to go on and develop further projects including making healthy snacks for children, and preparing food for the homeless.

The Co Antrim-born chef, who now lives in London and has a restaurant near the community facility, said: 'If everyone took care of their community like this there would be no issues in the world.'

Ms Smith said Meghan had spoken with passion about the kitchen. 'She's really into food, she's a real foodie.'

The Duchess told the group: 'It hasn't been a year yet. From that standpoint, what you have achieved in that short space of time... it's really exciting.'

Community kitchens around Britain, including ones in Brixton in South London, Barnet in North London and Scotland, as well as a US group, have been in touch, asking to meet or swap ideas.

Other projects that they are now working on include a group for women affected by domestic violence, a scheme to deliver freshly cooked meals for women on maternity wards, and a project to produce healthy food for children.

The women have been empowered to start their own projects, which will help others in their community benefit

Meghan bids farewell to kitchen co-ordinator Ms Sufyaan following her visit to the kitchen in North Kensington today

The Duchess of Sussex and her friend, chef Clare Smyth (left), visit the Hubb Community Kitchen this morning

The Duchess of Sussex speaks to the women at the Hubb Community Kitchen as she finds out how funds are being used

Those involved have also been able to obtain food hygiene qualifications and been empowered to start their own projects

The dishes prepared by the kitchen today include Egyptian lamb fattah, Persian chicken and barberry rice

Meghan suggested the idea of a fundraising cookbook when she first met the women in North Kensington

Meghan has previously described the book - Together: Our Community Cookbook - as a 'tremendous labour of love'

Meghan arrived at the kitchen to see first hand the progress made since the Together cookbook went on sale

The book went number one on Amazon within hours of being unveiled and has since sold nearly 40,000 copies in the UK

Professional chefs will be brought into the centre to give cooking masterclasses to the women. Today Meghan invited Ms Smyth, the British chef who cooked for guests and the Duke and Duchess of Sussex's evening wedding reception in May, to come along to see what the women had achieved.

Northern Ireland-born Ms Smyth, who became the first British female chef to hold and retain three Michelin stars, runs a restaurant, Core by Clare Smyth, in nearby Notting Hill and pledged to come into the centre to work with the women.

'Every community needs something like this. If we could all do something together, we could solve the world's problems,' the chef said. She praised their culinary skills, adding: 'They definitely don't need my help but if there is anything I can do to help them, I will.'

The meals being prepared in the redesigned kitchen today, as Aretha Franklin music was piped out in the background, were for local groups, including elderly people's homes, homeless shelters and women's refuges.

The dishes include Egyptian lamb fattah, Persian chicken and barberry rice.

Los Angeles-born Meghan enthused about the idea of food and meals as a means of bringing families and communities together. 'It's Thanksgiving tomorrow so it's the same thing about sharing,' she said.

One woman, Faiza Hayani, whose signature dishes in the cookbook include Algerian couscous, Algerian sweet lamb, and plum cake, told the Duchess that she has just been given the go-ahead to start a project teaching French, English and computer skills to local immigrant women.

Meghan, who lived in Canada for several years, told her: 'I've been trying to get better at my French. I've been trying to practise quite a bit.'

The kitchen has been redesigned with the women's input to capture its spirit as a place for the community to come together

The kitchen has become a place where people come together over meals and now opens seven days a week, up from just two

Meghan soon put on an apron, rolled up her sleeves and got stuck into helping prepare food this morning

Meghan speaks to the chefs as she visits the community kitchen today to see how funds raised are making a difference

Meghan, wearing a coat and dress by Club Monaco, was greeted by Abdurahman Sayed, from the Al Manaar Mosque

Together has sold more than 40,000 copies in the UK and raised £210,000 so far in the seven weeks since it went on sale

The Duchess arrives at the Hubb Community Kitchen today to see how the funds raised by the book are making a difference

The team set out to raise £250,000 to renovate the kitchen and open it seven days a week and expect to easily surpass that

Meghan arrived at the Hubb Community Kitchen, not far from the site of the deadly tower block blaze in West London

Before she left, the Duchess kissed and hugged all of the women and even thanked the British media for attending. 'Bye guys. Thank you for coming,' she said.

Afterwards Ms Saied said: 'It was so nice. We are so happy. She has helped us a lot. She changed things in the kitchen and the community.

'Not all of the community knew this centre was here. Now they all do. The kitchen was open only two days a week, now it is seven days a week. She did lots to help us in a short amount of time.'

A royal aide said Meghan would continue to work with the women but declined to say whether this might be the start of a wider, nationwide project. 'It's too early to say yet but she will continue to visit here. This project will always have a special place in her heart,' she said.

The team set out to raise £250,000 to renovate the kitchen and open it seven days a week and expect to easily surpass that, especially with Christmas coming up.

Supported by The Royal Foundation and published by Penguin Random House companies, Together has raised enough funds for the kitchen to be completely redesigned and re-fitted, with the women's input, to capture what has been described as their 'joyful spirit'.

Over the summer last year, a group of women gathered in a communal kitchen at the Al Manaar community centre, where they could prepare fresh food for their families, friends and neighbours affected by the disaster.

As they cooked together and shared recipes, as a community they began to connect, heal and look forward. Word spread and more women joined in – and this was the start of the Hubb kitchen.

The Duchess wanted to see first hand the progress made since the Together cookbook went on sale in September

Wearing a burgundy dress and coat by Club Monaco, Meghan hugged Ms Sufyaan as she arrived at the kitchen today

The mother-to-be was greeted by Mr Sayed, chief executive of the Al Manaar Muslim Cultural Centre in North Kensington

The Duchess of Sussex returned to the kitchen which inspired her collaborative work on a Grenfell charity cookbook

Meghan heard how the women in the kitchen hope to use future proceeds to reach out to more people in their community

The Duchess of Sussex smiled brightly as she arrived at the Al Manaar Muslim cultural centre in North Kensington today

Projects supported by the social entrepreneur foundation UnLtd include a group for women affected by domestic violence

There are schemes to deliver freshly cooked meals for women on maternity wards, and to produce healthy treats for children

Kensington Palace said that since the book was published, the 'inclusive ethos of Together has resonated all over the world'

Together: Our Community Cookbook reached number one on Amazon.co.uk book chart within hours of being announced

The new facilities provide a safe and professional space for the women to cook, gather and run activities within their community. Previously the kitchen was only able to open two days a week due to funding.

But the women are now able to use the kitchen seven days a week, and have been trained to gain food hygiene qualifications and empowered to start their own projects, which will help others in their community benefit.

The duchess, who has made regular private visits to the kitchen since January, met the women as they prepared fresh meals for the local community in the newly renovated kitchen.

The women were preparing 200 meals in just one day, to be delivered to local groups, including elderly people's homes, homeless shelters and women's refuges.

They are also now working on their own projects including a group for women affected by domestic violence, a scheme to deliver nutritious, freshly cooked meals for women on maternity wards, and a project to produce healthy treats for children.

Meghan, whose first baby with her husband, Prince Harry, is due in the spring, also heard about the women's long-term vision for the kitchen, and how they hope to use future proceeds to reach out to more people in their community.

Kensington Palace said today that since the book was published in September, the 'inclusive ethos of Together has resonated all over the world, and inspired people not just to buy the book, but to cook, eat and gather in their own communities'.

Together reached number one on Amazon.co.uk book chart within hours of being announced, and has appeared in the Sunday Times and New York Times Bestseller lists, selling tens of thousands of copies since its release.

How Meghan's secret visits to a community mosque after the Grenfell Tower fire prompted her to help launch a community cookbook

The charity recipe book the Duchess of Sussex threw her support behind came after a series of secret trips she made to a community mosque to cook with people affected by the Grenfell Tower tragedy

Meghan put her name to a book of recipes created by the women of the Hubb Community Kitchen, an initiative based close to the tower in North Kensington, West London.

Meghan wrote the foreword to Together: Our Community Cookbook, which came out for £9.99 in September and knocked JK Rowling off the number one spot on Amazon's bestseller list even before it was released.

Meghan worked with women from the kitchen on a community cookbook. A publicity photo from its release is pictured

The Duchess, who donned an apron to muck in with fellow volunteers on her visits, said she 'immediately felt connected' to the kitchen, which she described as a 'place for women to laugh, cry, grieve and cook together'.

The recipe book bumped Lethal White, written by Robert Galbraith - Harry Potter author Rowling's male pseudonym - Adam Kay's This is Going to Hurt, and Jamie Oliver's Italy down the charts to take the top spot.

Demand ahead of its release meant the charity book had already been outselling efforts from heavyweight chefs and foodies on the website - including recipe books from the Body Coach Joe Wicks and Deliciously Ella.

Kensington Palace released photographs of the Duchess - who also appears on the front cover of the book - chatting, laughing and cooking with fellow volunteers in the kitchen at the Al Manaar Cultural Centre.

The Hubb Community Kitchen - hubb means love in Arabic - has arisen out of the devastating Grenfell tragedy in 2017. It caused the deaths of 72 people when fire broke out in the 24 storey block of flats on June 14 last year.

The palace said the women behind the project had decided to gather and prepare fresh food for their families and neighbours, as a way of helping the community to connect, heal and look forward - and to 'convene through food'.

Meghan poses for a picture previously with the Hubb Community Kitchen team for Together: Our Community Cookbook

Following the blaze - Britain's deadliest fire on domestic premises since the Second World War - the group of friends approached the Al Manaar centre to ask if they could use the kitchen.

In the book supported by Meghan, some of the recipes are family favourites and all have been created by the cooks who support not only residents affected by the Grenfell fire but others in the community.

In the introduction, the women of the Hubb Community Kitchen wrote: 'Our kitchen has always been a place of good food, love, support and friendship.

'We cook the recipes we've grown up with; there's no stress, and the recipes always work because they have been made so many times – it's proper comfort food.

'Swapping family recipes and moments of laughter gave us a sense of normality and home. We named ourselves the Hubb Community Kitchen to celebrate the thing that we all feel every time we meet – hubb means love in Arabic.'

Meghan helped put the group in touch with a publisher and her Royal Foundation provided assistance with legal and admin issues. Prince Harry and Meghan’s mother Doria Ragland helped launch it at a reception at the palace.

Two months after the book was released, it has since sold nearly 40,000 copies in the UK, raising £210,000.

====== 432 ========

FIFTY YEARS AFTER RELEASE THE BEATLES WHITE ALBUM TANTALISING SECRETS OF THE RECORD THAT CHANGED POP

This was The Beatles’ ninth studio album, a double LP of 30 tracks, including Back In The USSR, While My Guitar Gently Weeps and Ob-La-Di, Ob-La-Da.

Today, on its 50th birthday, we celebrate with a collection of fascinating trivia about the White Album and reveal how it was inspired by, among other things, monkeys, Mia Farrow and an old English sheepdog.

The album is actually called The Beatles

Its working title had been A Doll’s House, after the play by Henrik Ibsen. But then a band called Family released an LP titled Music In A Doll’s House, so The Beatles decided to simply name the album after themselves.

The White Album name refers to the famous sleeve. This was intended as a complete contrast to the band’s previous album, Sgt Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band, whose cover was a colourful montage of famous people.

The plain white design was the work of pop artist Richard Hamilton. The words ‘The Beatles’ are embossed in white in the Helvetica font. Early copies had serial numbers to create, according to Hamilton, ‘the ironic situation of a numbered edition of something like five million copies’.

The secrets of the iconic White Album (inset) examined on its 50th birthday reveal the bizarre stories behind how some of the tracks were inspired and recorded

Ringo Starr sold his copy of the album for a fortune

Ringo received the very first copy, serial number 0000001. The other three band members were given numbers 2 to 4, with the group’s manager Brian Epstein getting 7 and their press officer Derek Taylor number 9. John Lennon gave 0000005 to an unnamed friend — when this copy was sold on eBay in 2008, it fetched nearly £20,000. But even that pales when compared with the amount Ringo got for his copy at auction in 2015 — $790,000 (around £620,000).

Many of the songs were written in India

In March 1968 all four Beatles travelled to Rishikesh in India to attend a transcendental meditation course run by the guru Maharishi Mahesh Yogi. Also in attendance was Mike Love of the Beach Boys.

This contributed to the White Album’s opening track, Back in the USSR. The chorus and vocals were a light-hearted send up of the Beach Boys’ sound, while the title was a parody of Chuck Berry’s Back In The USA. When Love heard McCartney playing an early version of the song on his guitar one morning, he suggested adding in something about ‘all the girls around Russia’. So USSR went into the title.

In March 1968 all four Beatles travelled to Rishikesh in India to attend a transcendental meditation course run by the guru Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, along with Mike Love of the Beach Boys

Dear Prudence refers to Mia Farrow’s sister

Prudence Farrow was also on the meditation course. The 20-year-old locked herself in her hut on the retreat for much of the time. Lennon remarked wryly that this was because ‘she was trying to find God quicker than anyone else’. The line ‘won’t you come out to play?’ is Lennon and the others encouraging Farrow to leave her hut.

Ringo left the band during recording

By 1968, relations between the band members were fractious. When McCartney criticised Ringo’s drumming during recording sessions, the drummer decided he’d had enough and left. He borrowed Peter Sellers’ yacht and took himself off to Sardinia.

Ringo Starr did not drum on all tracks

Not to be deterred by Ringo’s departure, Macca picked up the sticks himself and did the drumming on the first two songs. His performances are technically accomplished. This could be seen as the inspiration for the joke: ‘Ringo wasn’t the best drummer in the world — in fact, he wasn’t even the best drummer in the Beatles.’ Although credited to Lennon, the line was actually coined by the comedian Jasper Carrott.

. . . and was lured back by a telegram

Ringo’s bandmates sent him a message saying that they loved him, and asked him to come home. He did, and when he entered the recording studio, he found that Harrison had covered his drum kit with flowers spelling out ‘Welcome back, Ringo’.

The Beatles with Maharishi Mahesh Yogi after his farewell appearance at the London Hilton

But the atmosphere remained fraught

Lennon didn’t help matters by bringing Yoko Ono to sessions, breaking the band’s ‘no wives or girlfriends in the studio’ rule. So bad was the atmosphere that, at times, he and McCartney recorded simultaneously in different studios. In the end, only 16 of the 30 tracks on the album have all four Beatles performing on them.

John Lennon sang alone on one track

Julia is the only Beatles song on which Lennon performed alone. This is fitting as it was about his mother. When her son was just five, Julia Lennon left him in the care of her sister Mimi. They were later reconciled, but she was hit and killed by a car when he was 17. This prompted Lennon to say that he had ‘lost her twice’.

The truth about Ob-La-Di, Ob-La-Da

McCartney wrote the song after hearing its title used by Nigerian conga player Jimmy Scott. The musician, who had once backed Stevie Wonder, used the expression with ‘life goes on, bra’ tacked on at the end. Scott played congas on the song. The Desmond who ‘has a barrow in the market place’ was McCartney’s tribute to the Jamaican reggae musician Desmond Dekker, whose hit Israelites was topping the charts.

How Clapton’s guitar got its name

Because relations between the Beatles were so bad, Harrison felt he wanted a friend with him. So he invited Eric Clapton to play lead guitar on his song While My Guitar Gently Weeps. For the recording Clapton used a red Gibson Les Paul that he himself had given to Harrison a few weeks previously. Because of the guitar’s colour Harrison had named it Lucy, after the red-headed comedian Lucille Ball.

The Beatles On The Set Of A Hard Days Night At Twickenham Studios, (left to right) George Harrison, Ringo Starr, Paul McCartney, John Lennon have their hair combed by (left to right) Pattie Boyd, Tina Williams, Pru Bury and Susan Whiteman

Blackbird is based on a piece by Bach

As a young guitarist, McCartney had tried to learn Bourrée in E minor by Johann Sebastian Bach, a piece originally written for the lute. Here, he adapted the tune to come up with Blackbird.

The first night his future wife Linda went back to his house in St John’s Wood, just round the corner from Abbey Road studios, McCartney sat on the window-sill of an upstairs room and played the song to the fans camped outside on the pavement.

Boozy secret behind Long Long Long

The eerie rattling effect providing an atmospheric end to the song was simply the accidental result of a wine bottle left on top of a speaker cabinet. When Paul McCartney held a note on the Hammond organ connected to the speaker, the bottle vibrated.

Inspiration from some very amorous monkeys

Paul McCartney wrote Why Don’t We Do It In The Road? after seeing two monkeys mating in India. Their lack of embarrassment impressed him. ‘That’s how simple the act of procreation is,’ said Macca. ‘We have horrendous problems with it, and yet animals don’t.’

John Lennon (centre) reportedly told Maharishi (left), ‘if you’re so cosmic, you’ll know why’, when asked why he was leaving India

Sexy Sadie was also born in India

And it was also inspired by sexual shenanigans, though this time of the human variety. John Lennon was disgusted that Maharishi Mahesh Yogi had made advances towards Mia Farrow, who was present at the retreat with her sister. He wrote the song in response, and originally called it ‘Maharishi’. Lennon later admitted they changed Maharishi in the lyrics to Sexy Sadie. ‘That’s about the Maharishi, yes,’ he explained. ‘I copped out and I wouldn’t write “Maharishi, what have you done? You made a fool of everyone.” But now it can be told.’

The original incident was part of the reason Lennon gave up on the meditation course. The Maharishi asked why he was leaving. Lennon replied: ‘If you’re so cosmic, you’ll know why.’

====== 433 ========

KURT RUSSELL GUSHES OVER KATE HUDSON'S 'ADORABLE' NEWBORN BABY

Kurt Russell, 67, gushed over Kate Hudson's 'adorable' newborn during This Morning appearance on Wednesday.

Also The Hateful Eight star gave a rare insight into his family's Christmas plans as he and Goldie Hawn, 73, jet off to Colorado with all their kids and grandchildren.

The Thing star explained the family enjoy bonding time at a 'picturesque' ranch where they stay over the festive period.

Scroll down for video

'She is adorable': Kurt Russell gushed over Kate Hudson's 'adorable' newborn baby as he shed rare light on their 'picturesque' family Christmas plans on This Morning on Wednesday

He said of his Christmas plans: 'We have got six grandchildren now. Kate has just had her third who is really adorable. But when we have all the kids together we go to Colorado.

'We go to a ranch there. It is picturesque. On Xmas eve, we decorate and we have someone read to us the night before Xmas. Straight after that, don't be surprised if you hear sleigh bells!'

Kurt also insisted he and Goldie were 'really lucky' because he insisted their children were 'great and easy to deal with'.

Honesty is the best policy: Kurt discussed his daughter Kate Hudson's 'adorable' new baby during This Morning appearance

He explained: 'We were really lucky, our kids are great and easy to deal with.'

Kurt has one biological child with Goldie, 32-year-old Wyatt, but the couple look on their other half's children as their own.

Goldie also raised 42-year-old Oliver and 39-year-old Kate with her ex-husband Bill Hudson, who she was married to from 1976 until 1982.

Revealed: Also The Hateful Eight star gave a rare insight into his family's Christmas plans as he and Goldie Hawn, 73, jet off to Colorado with all their kids and grandchildren

Explanation: He said of his Christmas plans, 'We have got six grandchildren now. Kate has just had her third who is really adorable. But when we have all the kids together we go to Colorado'

Family ties: Kurt has one biological child with Goldie, 32-year-old Wyatt, but the couple look on their other half's children as their own

Kurt also has 38-year-old son Boston from his failed marriage to Season Hubley between 1979 and 1983.

Kurt and Goldie are very happy to be grandparents to six children, three of which are being raised by Kate.

How To Lose A Guy In 10 Days star Kate shares her eldest son Ryder Robinson, 14, with her ex Chris Robinson.

Bingham Hawn Bellamy, seven, is the son of Kate and her former flame Matt Bellamy.

How sweet: The latest addition to the family was Rani Rose Hudson Fujikawa, born to her proud parents Kate and her beau Danny Fujikawa on the second day of October

The latest addition to the family was Rani Rose Hudson Fujikawa, born to her proud parents Kate and her beau Danny Fujikawa on the second day of October.

Kurt previously commented on how Kate is 'different' with raising her daughter to her two sons in an interview with PEOPLE.

He told the publication: 'She’s a little different with the little girl, I think at this stage, than I remember her being with her boys.

'We’re really glad. We’re proud of Danny and the relationship that grew between Kate and Danny, the result being Rani Rose.'

====== 434 ========

ACTRESS PIA MILLER FLAUNTS HER SLENDER CURVES IN A SKIMPY BLACK BIKINI

It was just announced she will star in the upcoming live-action adaption of Nickelodeon's Dora the Explorer.

And on Wednesday, Pia Miller, 35, was in a celebratory mood, sipping champagne in a skimpy black bikini.

The actress looked every inch the glamazon in the Seafolly swimmers, which she paired with an oversized white T-shirt and floppy cane hat.

Scroll down for video

Cheers to her! Pia Miller flaunts her stunning curves in a black bikini as she sips champagne after being cast in Dora The Explorer

Pia added to her relaxed glam look by wearing her luscious chestnut tresses down past her shoulders.

In the post, Pia promoted the designer swimwear label's collaboration with champagne brand Chandon.

Starring role: Pia is set to star alongside Hollywood actress Eva Longoria (above) in the live action adaption of Dora The Explorer. Pia will play Dora's aunt Mami

The Chilean-born starlet's happy mood comes after news broke she would star alongside Hollywood actress Eva Longoria in Dora The Explorer.

According to the Daily Telegraph, the 35-year-old is playing Dora's aunt Mami in the movie, which has already finished filming on the Gold Coast.

In the film, Eva will play Dora's mother.

Big things: The Logie nominee's career has been on fire since she said goodbye to Home and Away earlier this year

The Logie nominee's career has been on fire since she said goodbye to Home and Away earlier this year.

She's already starred in Channel Nine's crime drama Bite Club to great acclaim.

Pia is the mother of two boys, Isaiah, 16, and Lennox, 12, who she shares with her ex, former football player Brad Miller, 35.

As well as her acting and parenting skills, the mum-of-two is known for being outspoken in matters she is passionate about.

Mummy dearest: Pia is the mother of two boys, Isaiah, 16, and Lennox, 12, who she shares with her ex, former football player Brad Miller, 35

Pia has previously opened up about body confidence and admitted she too has insecurities about her body.

'I still have my moments when I am self-conscious, we all do,' she told Yahoo! Lifestyle in May last year.

But Pia said she ultimately tries to work with what she's got.

'I'm naturally curvy and I think it's important to embrace that,' she added.

====== 435 ========

GABRIELLE UNION SHARES PHOTO OF DAUGHTER KAAVIA, WHO REMINDS HER TO 'NEVER GIVE UP ON HER DREAMS'

She welcome her daughter, Kaavia, two weeks ago.

And Gabrielle Union shared an adorable photo of her and Dwyane Wade's 'miracle' baby on Wednesday.

The 46-year-old actress added a lovely caption to the image that explained what her daughter, who was born via surrogate, means to her: 'This little dynamo reminds me to never give up on my dreams.'

Cute: Gabrielle Union shared an adorable photo of her and Dwyane Wade's newborn on Wednesday

'So no money down you say? I'm listening..,' began Gabrielle's caption.

'Today's #WCW is @kaaviajames. This little dynamo reminds me to never give up on my dreams.

'Never give up hope and never think you are alone. Many people are suffering in silence in plain sight. They are screaming and nothing is coming out.

'Let us all remember to keep our eyes, minds and hearts open to one another and for ourselves as well.

'To anyone suffering and losing hope, let us all lift you up in the light of goodness and hold you there. You are loved, heard and seen.'

Happy mom: The 46-year-old actress added a lovely caption to the image that explained what her daughter means to her: 'This little dynamo reminds me to never give up on my dreams.'

Special moment: Gabrielle shared cute snaps as she sang to her baby girl on Wednesday

In the photo, Kaavia lays in her bed with a stern look on her face and is dressed in an adorable all white outfit that includes a beanie.

Later, Gabrielle took to the Instagram she has created for the little one, and shared a photo of her daughter asleep on her chest.

She wrote 'snuggling with mommy' across the photo.

The sweetest: Kaavia was born on November 7 via surrogate.

On Tuesday, Gabrielle and Dwyane both posted snaps on Instagram showing them and their little girl with the Oprah.

The couple revealed that they are working on a TV special with the celebrity - Oprah At Home With Gabrielle Union, Dwyane Wade & Their New Baby.

The show is set to air Saturday, December 8 at 8pm ET/PT on OWN.

Kaavia was born on November 7 via surrogate.

In her autobiography, We're Going to Need More Wine: Stories That Are Funny, Complicated, and True, Gabrielle opened up about her struggle with infertility.

'I have had eight or nine miscarriages,' she revealed in the book, which was released late last year.

'For three years, my body has been a prisoner of trying to get pregnant — I've either been about to go into an IVF cycle, in the middle of an IVF cycle, or coming out of an IVF cycle.'

When the baby was finally born, both her and her husband posted photos of them meeting their baby girl and called her 'our miracle baby.'

Coming soon: On Tuesday, Gabrielle and Dwyane both posted snaps on Instagram showing them and their little girl with the Oprah





====== 436 ========

PROPERTY BROTHERS' BROTHER J.D. ENGAGED TO MAKEUP ARTIST

Life just got sweeter for the Property Brothers' older sibling, J.D. Scott.

J.D., whose younger brothers Jonathan and Drew are the stars of the Canadian house-flipping show, announced his engagement via Instagram Monday.

He posted an album of snapshots including one of him proposing to makeup artist Annalee Belle - an event that according to People actually occurred on Halloween.

What a moment: J.D. Scott, whose siblings Jonathan and Drew co-star Property Brothers, announced his engagement to makeup artist Annalee Belle Monday

The dynamic duo were certainly dressed to catch the eye on Halloween - Annalee had on a colorful sequined jumpsuit and a pair of black go-go boots.

Her purple hair gathered up in an extravagant updo, Annalee clapped a hand to her mouth as J.D. got down on one knee in front of several lit shelves full of shoes.

Another one of the photos in the album was a close-up of the glittering ring on Annalee's finger, and another was of them posing up together post-proposal.

So sweet: The dynamic duo are pictured together at the Hard Rock Hotel And Casino in Las Vegas in August of this year

'It looks like I get to spend the rest of my life with you. I'm on cloud 9 right now! #SheSaidYes #Engaged #Proposal #LoveOfMyLife,' J.D. captioned.

While Jonathan has yet to remark on the engagement via social media, Drew re-posted the proposal picture to Instagram with a sweet caption.

'Congrats to my brother @mrjdscott and soon to be sister @annaleebelle! You are two of the most loving people I know and can't wait to watch you walk down the isle #engaged,' wrote 40-year-old Drew, who is twins with Jonathan.

View this post on Instagram A post shared by JD Scott (@mrjdscott) on Nov 19, 2018 at 4:01pm PST

Drew is himself a newlywed - he and his longtime girlfriend Linda Phan had a destination wedding in Italy this May, People reported.

Meanwhile, his beefcake brother is a divorcee, having been married to an airline crew scheduler called Kelsy Ully from 2007 until 2013.

Property Brothers, which is on HGTV in America, began airing in 2011 and is still going strong in its 13th season, which began in September.

====== 437 ========

LILY JAMES NAILS AUTUMNAL CHIC IN FLORAL MAXI DRESS ON CASUAL STROLL WITH JUNO TEMPLE IN NYC

She recently revealed she's planning to slow down on her career to maintain a healthy work-life balance.

And Lily James proved she's stuck to her word as she enjoyed a low-key stroll with fellow actress Juno Temple in New York City on Tuesday afternoon.

The Mamma Mia actress, 29, looked effortlessly stylish as she sported a floral maxi dress, tied in with a comfy shearling jacket.

Industry pals: Lily James appeared in high spirits as she enjoyed a low-key stroll with fellow actress Juno Temple in New York City on Tuesday afternoon

Wrapping up against the chilly climes of the Big Apple, the screen star draped a plum scarf around her neck, and nailed biker chic with patent boots.

Lily kept accessories to a minimum as she toted a chain-strap handbag and wore gold hooped earrings.

The brunette beauty put her naturally stunning features on full display with miminal make-up, and swept her tresses into a messy half up half down style.

Meanwhile, Maleficent star Juno, 29, displayed her quirky style sense with bootcut jeans, a cropped jumper and platform boots.

Off they go: The Mamma Mia actress, 29, looked effortlessly stylish as she sported a floral maxi dress, tied in with a comfy shearling jacket

The blonde complemented her voluminous curls with a cream baker boy hat, and wore light strokes of neutral-toned make-up.

Lily's outing comes after she admitted she is considering slowing down to focus on her relationship with her actor beau Matt Smith, 36.

The actress stressed she finds it difficult to strike the perfect work-life balance and she confessed she misses 'so much' because of working.

'You have to trust that things won’t go away if you stop for a bit,' she told Marie Claire. 'I haven’t really stopped, and I don’t think that’s a feasible way to work. For me, eventually, that’s not the lifestyle I want.

Love first: Lily's outing comes after she admitted she is considering slowing down to focus on her relationship with her actor beau Matt Smith, 36 (pictured together in May 2017)

''That’s not only with regards to my relationship with Matt, but with my friends and family. There’s so much you miss. That’s why I know I can’t keep working at this intensity. I finish a job; Matt starts one.’

Lily also revealed that they are in the process of buying a place together as they take their relationship to the next level.

‘I used to go to work – to Downton Abbey – at 5am, and everyone would still be partying. It was like Vegas,' she said. 'I’d be like, “Keep going, I’ll be back in ten hours!”

Candid: The actress stressed she finds it difficult to strike the perfect work-life balance and she confessed she misses 'so much' because of working (pictured in Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again)

Despite taking the decision to slow down, Lily is set play the lead role in a film remake of Daphne du Maurier’s classic gothic novel Rebecca.

Alfred Hitchcock’s cult 1940 adaptation of the psychological thriller, starring Laurence Olivier and Joan Fontaine, won an Oscar for best picture.

Now Mamma Mia star Lily will follow in Hollywood royalty’s footsteps by playing the naive narrator, who marries brooding and wealthy widower Maxim de Winter.

====== 438 ========

TEKASHI 6IX9INE PLACED IN PRISON'S 'EXTREMELY DANGEROUS' GENERAL POPULATION

Rapper Tekashi 6ix9ine has been placed in general population at Brooklyn's Metropolitan Detention Center.

The prison is known for being filled with 'extremely dangerous, violent, or escape-prone' inmates, according to the US Justice Department.

6ix9ine, whose real name is Daniel Hernandez, was indicted on racketeering and firearm charges in Manhattan federal court on Monday.

Federal prosecutors alleged the 22-year-old rapper was involved in the violent New York City-based gang Nine Trey, a 'violent sect of the Bloods', for several years.

Lance Lazarro, the rapper's lawyer, told TMZ that 6ix9ine was placed in general population instead of a segregated part of the prison due to his celebrity status.

Rapper Tekashi 6ix9ine has been placed in the 'extremely dangerous' general population at Brooklyn's Metropolitan Detention Center

6ix9ine, whose real name is Daniel Hernandez, was indicted on racketeering and firearm charges in Manhattan federal court on Monday. He is pictured in court in October

Prosecutor Michael Longyear acknowledged on Monday that 6ix9ine was a target and that members of his crew 'wanted to super violate him' - meaning inflict harm or shoot him.

Longyear said 6ix9ine, who was denied bail on Monday, was taken in after prosecutors discovered he was planning a trip to a Connecticut casino.

They feared that a hit could be placed on the rapper and put innocent lives at risk.

6ix9ine's bail hearing was scheduled for Tuesday but has been pushed to Wednesday because the judge was unavailable.

The Brooklyn-based rapper was arrested on Sunday and arraigned on Monday alongside five other men affiliated with Nine Trey.

Federal prosecutors alleged the 22-year-old rapper was involved in the violent New York City -based gang Nine Trey, a 'violent sect of the Bloods', for several years

This April 3, 2018 still image from a surveillance video was released by federal prosecutors to document alleged involvement by the rapper in several violent incidents

This April 21, 2018 still image from a surveillance video shows a shooting at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, which prosecutors claim the rapper and Nine Trey were involved in

Hs ex-manager Kifano Jordan, aka Shotti, was charged.

Faheem Walter, aka Crippy, Jamel Jones, aka Mel Murda, Jensel Butler, aka Ish, and Fuguan Lovick, aka Fu Banga, were also indicted.

According to the press release, Nine Trey is a 'criminal enterprise involved in committing numerous acts of violence, including shootings, robberies, and assaults in and around Manhattan and Brooklyn'.

'Members and associates of Nine Trey engaged in violence to retaliate against rival gangs, to promote the standing and reputation of Nine Trey, and to protect the gang's narcotics business,' the press release continues.

The group 'enriched themselves by committing robberies and selling drugs, such as heroin, fentanyl, furanly fentanyl, MDMA, dibutylone, and marijuana.'

Nine Trey was established in the early 90s at Rikers and operates in other areas of the country, including California.

6ix9ine's former manager Kifano Jordan (pictured November 7 in Manhattan court) has also been charged in the gang-related crimes

6ix9ine is currently facing 25 years to life in prison on six counts of the gang-related crimes.

US Attorney Geoffrey Berman said the gang has been involved in multiple acts of violence and has wreaked havoc on New York City.

'Showing reckless indifference to others' safety, members of the gang were allegedly involved in robberies and shootings, including a shooting inside the crowded Barclay's Center, and a shooting in which an innocent bystander was hit,' Berman said.

'Thanks to the extraordinary work of HSI, ATF, and the NYPD, the defendants will now face justice in federal court.'

6ix9ine was arrested by ATF agents in New York on Sunday night after a joint investigation was done by the ATF, NYPD, and Homeland Security.

The rapper, whose debut album Day69 is among the most downloaded on iTunes, has been among the most ascendant and controversial names in hip-hop in recent months.

6ix9ine was denied bail on Monday. He now faces 25 years to life in prison if convicted

In 2015 6ix9ine pleaded guilty to one felony count of using a child in a sexual performance.

Authorities said the rapper had sexual contact with a 13-year-old girl when he was 18 and distributed videos of the incident online.

6ix9ine recently pleaded guilty to disorderly conduct in Brooklyn Criminal Court in connection with a May traffic stop.

Last week the rapper revealed in an Instagram clip that he had dismissed his entire staff, including his manager and booker.

'I fired everybody on my team,' the Gummo artist said in the clip, imploring his fans that he was not going to be performing live in the near future, even in cases where he might be advertised.

'I don't got no manager, I got no booking agent, no PR, no publicist, I don't got nobody on my team - it's just me.'

====== 439 ========

TAMMY HEMBROW SQUEEZES HER FAMOUS DERRIÈRE INTO TIGHT DENIM SHORTS

She recently courted criticism from trolls who accused her of undergoing a 'Brazilian butt lift'.

And on Tuesday, Instagram model Tammy Hembrow sent her legion of detractors a very cheeky message as she soaked up the sun at Surfers Paradise on the Gold Coast.

The mother-of-two, 24, offered onlookers a cracking view of her famous behind as she squeezed her derrière into a pair of tight denim shorts at the beach.

Scroll down for video

Cracking view! Tammy Hembrow showed off her famous derrière on the beach in Surfers Paradise on Tuesday

White hot: Her incredible waist-to-hip ratio and equally impressive bronzed frame was also on show as she adjusted her bandeau bikini top on the Queensland beach

Tammy, who claims her bottom became fuller, rounder, perkier and bigger as a result of weight training, put on quite the display while pulling on her daisy dukes.

Elsewhere the buxom blonde showcased her perfectly gym-honed posterior in a pair of white cheeky-cut bikini briefs.

Tammy also offered fans a glimpse of her muscular legs and toned arms as she splashed around in the ocean with her daughter, Saskia, two, and son Wolf, three.

Yummy mummy! Tammy also offered fans a glimpse of her muscular legs and toned arms as she splashed around in the ocean with her daughter, Saskia, two, and son Wolf, three

Her incredible waist-to-hip ratio and equally impressive bronzed frame was also on show as she adjusted her bandeau bikini top on the Queensland beach.

Last month, Tammy sent a defiant message to her haters by sharing a similar photo of her famous derrière.

Tammy showcased her impossibly toned behind while posing at the beach in a very skimpy orange bikini.

'Life's a beach,' she captioned the sizzling snap.

The upload came after trolls accused the YouTube star of having 'butt implants' last month.

Despite Tammy insisting her physique is the result of a strict diet and exercise routine, some critics refuse to believe her bottom is 'real'.

Bottoms up! Tammy also showcased her impossibly toned behind while posing at the beach in a very skimpy orange bikini last month

In October, one follower asked on Instagram: 'Did you have a Brazilian butt lift?' which prompted another to write: 'Your booty silicon.'

A similar comment read: 'Butt implant surgery lol.'

Tammy defended herself against these claims, however, by responding: 'Das a 100% natural booty'.

In just a few years, Tammy has completely transformed her backside and achieved an incredible waist-to-hip ratio.

But as her social media following has grown, so have accusations that she has secretly undergone 'booty surgery'.

She recently told Cosmopolitan magazine that being accused of getting butt implants is 'frustrating'.

'I don't want people to think they can't achieve a booty with hard work,' she said.

'It just creates a false mindset that it's not achievable and surgery is the only option, which is completely wrong,' she added.

====== 440 ========

KHLOE KARDASHIAN SHARES AWKWARD SNAP OF FAMILY WITH TRISTAN THOMPSON

Her labour was made even more tough by shocking revelations her boyfriend Tristan Thompson had cheated on her while she was carrying their child.

But making light of the otherwise devastating situation, Khloe Kardashian shared a very awkward snap of herself and her beau cosying up to her family in the delivery room ahead of her labour - moments after they slammed the star for his infidelity.

The reality star, 34, who has since chosen to give her romance with Tristan another go following the arrival of their daughter True, joked 'you can feel the tension' surfacing from the photo as she admits she felt 'uncomfortable' in that moment.

Awkward: Khloe Kardashian shared a very awkward snap of herself and her beau cosying up to her family in the delivery room ahead of her giving birth and joked, 'You can feel the tension'

Taking to her Instagram story, Khloe shared the 'family' photo with fans. It saw her sitting up in her hospital bed surrounded by her loved ones, including sisters Kourtney and Kim Kardashian and her mother Kris Jenner.

Her BFF Malika Haqq was also present, as was boyfriend Tristan after Khloe insisted she wanted him there with her at the birth of their daughter, despite finding out he had been unfaithful.

He was seen posing behind Khloe's sisters, resting one arm on his girlfriend's bed.

In the photo, the stars can be seen forcing a smile for the camera, with Khloe admitting she couldn't help but 'nervously laugh' when the snap had been taken, as she felt so 'uncomfortable'.

Tension: Taking to her Instagram story, the reality star shared the 'family' photo with fans and confessed she had felt 'so uncomfortable' at the time - days before she had found out about her beau's cheating

Upset: Tristan cheated on Khloe with several women, with his infidelity coming to light as Khloe prepared to give birth and the NBA star feeling the wrath of his girlfriend's family

Penning alongside her photo, Khloe said: 'This is one of the most awkward photos I have seen in a long time. You can feel the tension lol but it makes me laugh for some reason.

'I am definitely one of those people that when I am uncomfortable I nervously laugh. Welcome to my labor lol.'

As Khloe prepared to give birth to daughter True in April, it was revealed that Tristan had cheated on the star with several women.

While Khloe's reaction to the drama was kept under wraps at the time of True's birth, fans are now getting to see how she initially reacted to the cheating scandal and the fallout it caused between Tristan and her family.

Kim was seen branding Tristan a 'f**king loser' in a vented tirade about the NBA star and his unfaithful behaviour, while Kris admitted Khloe never saw her beau's cheating coming.

Drama: Fans have now seen how Khloe initially reacted to the cheating scandal from her hospital bed and the fallout it caused between Tristan and her family

Mature: She decided to still have the basketball player with her as she gave birth, despite the hurt he had caused, explaining: 'I want this for me and my daughter, and for him at the end of the day'

Despite her heartbreak and the upset, Khloe still wanted Tristan by her side when she gave birth, explaining on Sunday's Keeping Up With The Kardashians episode: 'This is something I've waited for my entire life.

'I don't want to take away anything from this moment, and I have always been a believer of, "don't make permanent decisions off temporary emotions," I want Tristan here with me.

'I want to experience this magical moment, and I want this for me and my daughter and for him at the end of the day, and I'm mature enough to say that. I'm mature enough to put my personal feelings aside.'

Although, she made sure to let her boyfriend know she hadn't brushed aside the revelations, as she said: 'This is crazy. Just so you know, this whole experience is wild.'

Hurting: Khloe was seen telling sister Kim that she hated having to deal with her heartache so publicly on Sunday's episode of Keeping Up With The Kardashians

Getting through: Speaking of the moment she gave birth, and the less than ideal circumstances, Khloe told the camera: 'It was crucial to me that it was a very healthy, happy, positive experience and everyone put their differences aside for that moment'

Khloe and Tristan were joined by Kim - who decided to momentarily subside her anger towards Tristan to stop any tension surfacing in the delivery room - and Kourtney as she gave birth, along with her mother Kris who had helped to deliver True.

The new parents were seen cutting True's umbilical cord, as Khloe claimed: 'The minute I met my daughter I was so in love with her, she is just perfect.'

Speaking of the moment she gave birth, and the less than ideal circumstances, Khloe told the camera: 'It was crucial to me that it was a very healthy, happy, positive experience and everyone put their differences aside for that moment and I am very grateful for that, but obviously there is a big elephant in the room.'

She explained that her focus was not on whether she and Tristan would remain together as a couple, but on her daughter: 'Having these moments with my daughter and see him be such a great father too her is what is important to me.'

Bundle of joy: The new parents were seen cutting True's umbilical cord, as Khloe claimed: 'The minute I met my daughter I was so in love with her, she is just perfect'

Honest: She explained that her focus was not on whether she and Tristan would remain together as a couple, but on her daughter: 'Having these moments with my daughter and see him be such a great father too her is what is important to me'

Khloe was seen telling sister Kim that she hated having to deal with her heartache so publicly.

'Everyone has their own s**t that I know nothing about and mine is thrown on the public of everything and its just a lot harder to filter through stuff when it’s this public and when I gave birth the following day, It’s just too much,' she said.

'He obviously f***ed up, major. But I’m just not sure how I feel about anything right now, in two weeks I might say "I don’t trust you and this is not for me," or I might say "this is perfect, let's keep it going."'

In the days that followed True's birth, Khloe's family had an off-camera talk with Tristan. While Kris appeared convinced that the basketball player seemed 'very remorseful', Kim disagreed and claimed Tristan was only sorry as he was receiving a hard time from fans on the court.

Although, Kim did add: 'Overall I think it was necessary for us all to let out how we felt and, as he is the father of Khloe’s baby, I definitely wanted to take the time to hear what he had to say.'

Confused: Khloe admitted in the days after True's birth that she wasn't sure how she felt about anything when it came to Tristan and his cheating ways

Tough talk: Khloe was seen receiving advice from her sisters about Tristan and while Kourtney told the beauty to 'follow her heart' and that they will support her choice, she and Kim added that they don't think Tristan will change

Khloe was seen receiving advice from her sisters about Tristan and while Kourtney told the beauty to 'follow her heart' and that they will support whatever she chooses, she and Kim added that they don't think Tristan will change.

Kourtney claimed: 'It takes a lot more strength to hang in there and try for your family than to just walk away,' while Kim disagreed but stated she would 'stay out of the way' of Tristan.

As the eventful episode played out onscreens, Khloe took to Twitter to live tweet and addressed her decision to stand by Tristan despite the hurt he has caused her.

She candidly told fans: 'In life we all make mistakes. Some are bigger than others. His mistake was obviously humiliating and heartbreaking but I do believe that I am strong enough to endure anything. I choose to find a life lesson in every situation, even the nasty ones.

'Tristan has grown from this but most importantly he is a beautiful father to our sweet baby True. Only time will tell but until then I am living in my happy place with True. She deserves only love and happiness.'

Keeping Up With the Kardashians is available to stream Mondays on hayu.

====== 441 ========

MEGHAN MARKLE SPORTS A NEW RING SPELLING OUT 'LOVE'

Mother-to-be Meghan Markle was sporting a new trinket today in the form of a ring with a very sweet message.

The Duchess of Sussex showed off a previously unseen ring spelling out the word 'love' as she visited the Hubb Community Kitchen in West London to meet survivors of the Grenfell Tower tragedy.

While her simple burgundy shift dress and coat in a matching shade ensured her overall look was understated, the Duchess couldn't resists adding a playful touch with her new accessory.

The trinket is believed to be the $70 (£54) 'jamie love ring' from LA-based jeweller Meredith Hahn.

The Duchess of Sussex showed off a previously unseen ring spelling out the word 'love' as she visited the Hubb Community Kitchen in West London to meet survivors of the Grenfell Tower tragedy

The glowing Duchess was sporting a new trinket as she arrived at the Hubb Community Kitchen in West London, wearing a burgundy dress and coat from Club Monaco

Meghan today wore a new trinket, believed to be the jamie love ring by LA-based jewellery Meredith Hahn

The Meredith Hahn ring is available in a range of materials, including 18K yellow or rose gold vermeil, as well as sterling silver, all of which are priced at $70 (£54).

However, it is also possible to purchase a solid 14K yellow or rose gold option, both of which retail for $295 (£230).

Although the origin of Meghan's ring has not been confirmed, it appears as though her version may be rose gold.

Meghan has been known for adding a hint of edginess to her formal royal wardrobe with distinctly non-regal accessories such as on-trend stacking rings and fashion-forward mismatched earrings

At Princess Eugenie's wedding last month, she wore a plain, loose-fitting Givenchy coat that may have disappointed fans hoping for something more glamorous.

However, she lifted the look by accessorising with £6,000 worth of gold and diamond jewellery.

The Meredith Hahn ring (right) is available in a range of materials, including yellow gold and rose gold vermeil, as well solid 14K gold and rose gold. It appears Meghan's may be rose gold

The Duchess of Sussex showcased diamond rings and a bracelet worth £6,000 by jewellery designer Pippa Small at Princess Eugenie's wedding

The Duchess wore a Triple Shooting Star design earring in one ear and a stud in the other when she visited Cardiff in January

Meghan, 37, looked radiant this morning in a £282 burgundy dress with a velvet collar from her favourite Candian brand Club Monaco.

The mother-to-be's above-the-knee dress was a rather more daring length than we're used to seeing on the Duchess who usually favours midi skirts and dresses ending at the mid-calf.

However, she sensibly wore black tights to keep the chill away and covered up in a festive dark berry coat, also from Club Monaco.

Both items worn by Meghan, who is expecting her first child with Prince Harry in the Spring, are from the brands main clothing line and are not maternity wear.

The Duchess is following in the footsteps of her sister-in-law Kate who managed to keep wearing non-maternity clothing from her favourite labels well in to her third pregnancy with Prince Louis.

Meghan, 37, looked radiant this morning in a burgundy dress with a velvet collar from her favourite Candian brand Club Monaco, teamed with a coat in a similar shade from the same brand

Meghan, pictured visiting with Zaheera Sufyaan at the Hubb Community Kitchen in West London, switched up her usual style by wearing a subtle berry lipstick to complement her outfit

The Duchess finished off the outfit with a pair of £770 black pointed ankle boots by her wedding dress designer, Givenchy.

She wore her brunette blocks swept back in a neat ponytail with a centre parting and kept her make-up glowing and natural.

Despite previously professing to dislike colourful lipstick, Meghan switched up her usual look and wore a subtle berry shade to complement her outfit.

Club Monaco is a firm favourite with Meghan who previously lived in Toronto when she was filming Suits.

It's known for its smart staples and prices that are at the top end of the high street, without veering into designer territory.

Despite embracing a new life in the UK, the royal is still fiercely loyal to brands from Canada and the US - with many recommended by her unofficial stylist Jessica Mulroney who lives in Toronto.

Pregnant Meghan wore a coat and dress from Club Monaco's main fashion line, showing she's not ready to embrace maternity fashion just yet

The Duchess, who usually prefers midi length skirts and dresses, changed up her look in an above-the-knee shift from Canadian brand Club Monaco

Earlier this year Meghan, 37, collaborated with the women from the Hubb Community Kitchen in West London on Together: Our Community Cookbook.

It featured more than 50 recipes from women whose community was affected by the Grenfell Tower fire in June last year, which left 72 people dead.

Today the pregnant duchess is seeing how the funds raised by the book - which shot to the top of the literary charts - are already making a difference.

Together has sold more than 40,000 copies in the UK and raised £210,000 so far in the seven weeks since it went on sale.

They set out to raise £250,000 to renovate the kitchen and open it seven days a week and expect to easily surpass that, especially with Christmas coming up.

Supported by The Royal Foundation and published by Penguin Random House companies, Together has raised enough funds for the kitchen to be completely redesigned and re-fitted, with the women's input, to capture what has been described as their 'joyful spirit'.

====== 442 ========

BELLA HADID AND THE WEEKND 'CLOSE TO GETTING ENGAGED'

Bella Hadid and The Weeknd have been looking very happy with each other for the past few months as they kiss on the street in New York City.

And now it looks as if the model and the musician are ready to walk down the aisle.

According to UsWeekly, a proposal is on the horizon for the young power couple.

Man and wife? Bella Hadid and The Weeknd have been looking very happy with each other for the past few months as they kiss on the street in New York City. And now it looks as if the model and the musician are ready to walk down the aisle; seen in 2016

Documenting their love: Even when they were kissing passionately, he still found the time to hold up his camera to capture it

'They’re madly in love with each other,' a source said.

And the insider added that the Starboy singer, 28 - real name Abel Makkonen Tesfaye - will be popping the question to the Vogue model, 22: 'A proposal is on the horizon.'

They started dating in 2015 only to split a year later.

In January 2017 he was seen kissing Selena Gomez and then they went on a love trip through Europe, memorably kissing in Venice, Italy.

She would make a good wife: The siren is one of the biggest models in the world

They split in October 2017 after 10 months together and by April of this year he was back with Bella.

Now the lovebirds live together in NYC.

'He asked her to move in and she, of course, agreed. She felt that this was the next best step in their relationship,' said the source.

They are in a rented $60K a month penthouse in Manhattan's Tribeca area.

She was last seen in NYC earlier this week.

Reunited and it feels so good: The couple rekindled their relationship earlier this year; they are pictured in New York City in April 2018

She wore a more bohemian look dressed in black jeans, that were cut off above the ankle, and a black overcoat with furry lapels.

Adding a slight edgy touch, she matched it with a pair of black Doc Martens boots and a pair of black rim eyeglasses that would make a pinup girl from the 1950's proud.

On this day, she pulled her long dark tresses back in a slick look, compliments of a hair clip.

Cool: The 22-year old model went with bohemian look as she whisked past photographers

For his part, The Weeknd wore black pants, that were rolled up at the ankle, with a puffy bomber jacket over a black hoodie and a baseball cap.

The hood and the jacket also doubled as a pseudo mask for the superstar musician, due to his spontaneous need for privacy.

Adding to his causal attire, the 28-year old sported black slips and white socks for the quick jaunt.

His ex: The crooner used to date Selena Gomez - they were first seen kissing in January 2017 and then split in October 2017; seen here in September 2017

====== 443 ========

FLIPPING OUT: JEFF LEWIS CALLS JENNI PULOS A 'F***ING LIAR' AND FIRES HER ON BRAVO SERIES FINALE

Jeff Lewis called Jenni Pulos a 'f***ing liar' on Tuesday's series finale of Flipping Out before the long-term friends acrimoniously parted ways for good.

The 48-year-old real estate speculator was infuriated because Jenni, an aspiring actress, said she'd turned down an offer for a Nicolas Cage movie to work for Jeff.

The drama in the season 11 finale titled The Final Flip was stirred by The Real Housewives Of Miami star Lea Black, who hosted a Productivity Seminar for Jeff Lewis Design.

Series finale: Jeff Lewis called Jenni Pulos a 'f***ing liar" and fired her on Tuesday's season finale of Flipping Out on Bravo

The multi-millionaire business woman called Jeff the 'rainmaker' and 'the golden goose.'

'You want to always be looking for things to do, that is your job,' she informed his team.

'You have to major in the minor events,' she told them.

Apropos of nothing Jenni, 45, told the group that she still wanted to pursue her own projects.

Movie offer: Jenni cried as Jeff repeatedly called her a liar for claiming she had an offer to work on a Nicolas Cage movie

Productivity seminar: Jeff Lewis Design employees took part in a Productivity Seminar by Lea Black

Reality star: The former star of The Real Housewives Of Miami talked about improving efficiency

Hollywood dream: Jeff asked his employees for input and Jenni brought up her dream of being an actress

'It's humiliating for me, I'm trying to be an actor,' announced the executive assistant, who had worked with Jeff for 12 years before their bust up.

'We're trying to talk about the business, we're not talking about you and your f***ing non-existent acting career, really makes me mad,' Jeff whispered to the others.

'I had questioned whether or not she has been present, ever,' he groused.

Getting angry: The real estate speculator was outraged that Jenni brought up her 'non-existent acting career'

Jenni said she wanted to be on a comedy show or Saturday Night Live, but was too busy working for Jeff.

'Are you blaming me now, because you're not where you want to be in your career?' he balked.

'You've always minimized my acting, it's what you love to do and I am over it,' she scowled.

Acting minimized: Jenni accused Jeff of minimizing her acting

When Jenni said she'd turned down an offer for Cage movie Jeff barked 'I don't believe you.'

'We all would have heard about it, I absolutely for the record think you are lying,' he shouted.

'I'm tired of the mocking and I'm tired of the ''your dreams are stupid''…what's crazy is how mean you are,' she yelled, while calling it a 'personal attack.'

Non believer: Jeff told Jenni that he didn't believe she had an offer for a Cage movie

'You're a f***ing liar,' he screamed.

'There are people who live on Earth and people who live on other planets,' he said mockingly.

Jenni started sobbing and stormed out of the car, saying: 'I'm done, I'm just done.'

'It's so dysfunctional,' remarked Jeff's boyfriend Gage Edward.

Screaming session: The OCD developer then screamed at Jenni that she was a 'f***ing liar'

Getting emotional: Jenni started crying as Jeff's assistant Tyler consoled her

Over it: The aspiring actress told Jeff that she was 'done'

Jeff apologized over lunch a week later.

'I believe in you,' he told her.

Jenni wondered why he would have a 'f***ing liar' baptize his baby daughter Monroe and why he has to be 'so belittling.'

Close bond: Jenni was shown serving as godmother at the baptism of Jeff and Gage Edward's daughter Monroe

'That's kind of what hurt me to my core,' she said.

'I don't want you to think that I don't want to be there, because that's simply not true. When I was selling paint three days before I went into labor, I could have said ''sorry man, I can't do it''.'

Jeff decided the relationship was over.

Lunch meeting: Jeff and Jenni met up over lunch to hash things out after their blowup

It's over: The developer decided that their business relationship was over

'Am I holding you back from pursuing your dreams? The answer is yes, I'm holding you back,' he said.

The OCD house developer also decided that his employees were holding him back.

'Their dreams and their goals need to be in line with my dreams and my goals,' he said.

Dream alignment: Jenni listened as Jeff said that he wanted employees with dreams that aligned with his own

Adding: 'I think it's time for you to move on.'

Jenni was blindsided.

'I thought we were having lunch to discuss what happened and how to regroup, I didn't realize that my future at Jeff Lewis Design was over,' she said.

'I thought it was going to be a lifetime,' she added tearfully.

'I really considered him as family, and maybe that was a huge mistake,' she added.

====== 444 ========

BBC UNDER FIRE AFTER ANNOUNCING ANGELINA JOLIE AS GUEST HOST ON ITS PRESTIGIOUS SHOW TODAY

Britain's long-running current affairs show, The Today Program, has a history of inviting political heavyweights, religious leaders, leading scientists and even royalty to guest host it early morning radio slot.

But it appears that bosses at the prestigious BBC Radio 4 show are taking a break from politicians and experts this Christmas as they announce that Angelina Jolie will be taking the coveted role.

The Hollywood actress, 43, will take the reins on December 28, when she will highlight the issues of violence against women in conflict zones and the refugee crisis. The theme is one close to Jolie's heart and something she has campaigned on during much of her career.

Jolie, 43, will take the reins on December 28, when she will highlight the issues of violence against women in conflict zones and the refugee crisis

But the appointment of a relatively 'lightweight' celebrity guest-editor will come as a surprise to fans of the 61-year-old show which typically focuses on the issues, not it's famous hosts.

Since 2003 the flagship current affairs show has invited prominent public figures to become the editor for a day during the festive period.

Last year the Duke of Sussex was among the guest editors of the show, interviewing his own father, the Prince of Wales, and former US president Barack Obama.

House of Commons Speaker John Bercow, Sir Lenny Henry and Professor Stephen Hawking have also previously steered Today for special Christmas editions.

Britain's long-running current affairs show, The Today Program, has a history of inviting political heavyweights, religious leaders, leading scientists and even royalty to guest host it early morning radio slot (pictured are hosts John Humphrys and Mishal Husain)

Barack Obama and Prince Harry once appeared on the show which typically has politicians and world leaders as its guest hosts

However, Jolie is no ordinary actress and has a long history of humanitarian work, and acting as a spokeswoman on issues such as violence and rape against women, as well as the refugee crisis.

She will speak to refugees and survivors of conflict directly during the show.

The mother-of-six, actress and campaigner has already begun work on her stint at Today.

Her spokesman said she is ‘grateful’ for the opportunity ‘to draw on the BBC’s global expertise and network to explore practical solutions to a number of pressing issues of our time’.

He added: ‘She has already begun working with the Today program team and is looking forward to engaging a broad and diverse range of voices in the program.’

Jolie's spokesman said she is ‘grateful’ for the opportunity ‘to draw on the BBC’s global expertise and network to explore practical solutions to a number of pressing issues of our time’ (pictured in West Mosul during a visit to Iraq, on June 16, 2018)

Jolie has spent the past decade visiting war-torn countries and refugee camps all around the world, and founded her own organization, the Jolie-Pitt Foundation, with ex-husband Brad Pitt, to help children and refugees overseas.

She also set up the Maddox Jolie-Pitt Foundation after adopting son Maddox from Cambodia to help combat poverty and provide more opportunities in the nation.

Jolie was appointed the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees Goodwill Ambassador in 2012 which saw her visit several refugee camps around the world including those in Syria, Jordan, Thailand, and Iraq, and help advocate for refugees and find solutions for the crises.

The Salt star also cofounded the Preventing Sexual Violence in Conflict Initiative with former British Foreign Secretary Lord William Hague of Richmond in 2012, to combat sexual violence in global conflict zones and joined forces with designer Stella McCartney in 2014 to launch the Draw Me to Safety Campaign to highlight sexual violence in such areas.

Meanwhile, the subject of ‘outer space’ will be explored in a separate, theme-based episode of the Radio 4 program.

The long-running early morning news and current affairs shows broadcasts on BBC's Radio 4 in the UK, from 6am to 9am Monday to Friday, and 7am to 9am on Saturday. It's one of the most popular shows across BBC radio.

====== 445 ========

KIM KARDASHIAN LAUNCHES NEW KKW BEAUTY MASCARA

Kim Kardashian West is launching her first mascara.

The 37-year-old reality star's KKW Beauty is releasing its first ever mascara this Friday and the lash-booster comes as a part of the brand's Glam Bible Smokey Volume 1 set, which features a full collection of products that allow you to re-create the Keeping Up With the Kardashians star's signature look.

The product is described as a long-lasting creamy formula which defines lashes instantly and the beauty mogul claims the mascara is the 'Holy Grail' of beauty needs and is the perfect Christmas gift for loved ones.

Eye see money: Kim Kardashian West is launching her first mascara. The 37-year-old reality star's KKW Beauty is releasing its first ever mascara this Friday and the lash-booster comes as a part of the brand's Glam Bible Smokey Volume 1 set, which features a full collection of products

In a statement, she said: 'This is the Holy Grail for all my beauty needs, I wanted everyone to have access to the products and tools you need to recreate some of my favourite looks, and there's no better time to treat yourself or your loved ones than the Holidays!'

The Glam Bible also includes a new six-shade eyeshadow palette, false lashes, a black pencil liner, a brick red blush, a glittering gold highlighter, a peach lip liner, two lipsticks with peachy tones, a make-up sponge, a lip and eyeliner sharpener and finally, a powder puff.

The collection will be released this Black Friday, November 23 on kkwbeauty.com.

Kimology: In a statement, she said: 'This is the Holy Grail for all my beauty needs, I wanted everyone to have access to the products and tools you need to recreate some of my favourite looks'

Kimyie: This isn't the only exciting news from the brand as it was announced earlier this month that Kim would be collaborating for a new make-up collection with half-sister Kylie Jenner - who owns Kylie Cosmetics

This isn't the only exciting news from the brand as it was announced earlier this month that Kim would be collaborating for a new make-up collection with half-sister Kylie Jenner - who owns Kylie Cosmetics.

The pair previously joined forces for a cosmetics collection in 2017, and have now announced that 'part two' is just around the corner, as they'll release a new joint collection which will also drop on Black Friday.

Kim was on Ellen DeGeneres' TV show on Wednesday where she talked her nude photos.

====== 446 ========

ROBBIE WILLIAMS AND AYDA FIELD APPEAR IN HIGH SPIRITS AS THEY REUNITE AFTER SINGER'S AMERICAN TOUR

He was forced to miss a number of X Factor live shows due to his clashing tour commitments.

But Robbie Williams grinned from ear-to-ear as he reunited with his wife Ayda Field at the star-studded VIP Launch of Hyde Park Winter Wonderland in London on Wednesday, taking her for a ride on the Dodgems.

The couple then headed to the pick 'n' mix display where they tucked into sweets before heading on a series of other rides on their fun date night.

He's in the driving seat: Robbie Williams and Ayda Field enjoyed a date night at Winter Wonderland in London's Hyde Park on Wednesday night and whooshed around on the Dodgems

Pick 'n' mix: Ayda helped herself to some sweets on the night, no doubt taking them home to her children

Wrapping up against the chilly climes, the former Take That star, 44, kept comfy in a heavily padded jacket, loose-fitting jeans and black trainers.

Fellow X Factor judge Ayda, 39, cut a demure figure in a double-breasted longline coat, tied in with pointed stiletto boots.

Oozing sophistication on her night out, the Los Angeles native accessorised with a trendy trilby hat.

Chic: The Los Angeles native cut a demure figure in a double-breasted longline coat, tied in with pointed stiletto boots

Happy: The blonde appeared in high spirits as she enjoyed a ride on the merry go round

Horsing around: Ayda looked like she was having a blast as she sat on the ride in her leather trousers

Exciting: The event gave VIP attendees access to the attraction ground, which boasts the UK's largest outdoor ice rink, funfair rides and karaoke experiences

Let Me Entertain You: Ayda looked a little uneasy as Robbie took control of the wheel

Ayda framed her stunning features with loose waves and accentuated her beauty with lashings of mascara and vibrant pink lipstick.

The event gave VIP attendees access to the attraction ground, which boasts the UK's largest outdoor ice rink, funfair rides and karaoke experiences. Winter Wonderland will be open to the public from November 22 till January 9.

Meanwhile, X Factor fans were disappointed that Robbie missed three consecutive weeks of live shows, due to his contractual obligations on his Heavy Entertainment Show Tour.

Back for good: Robbie grinned from ear-to-ear as he reunited with his wife Ayda at the star-studded launch

Casual display: Wrapping up against the chilly climes, Robbie kept comfy in a heavily padded jacket, loose-fitting jeans and black trainers

Robbie now only has one group left, Acacia and Aaliyah, who have this week been getting mentoring from guitar legend Nile Rodgers.

Television personality Ayda was accused of favoritism after opting to save husband Robbie’s last remaining act on Sunday's episode of The X Factor.

Fans were left stunned after Shan Ako, widely tipped to win the long-running talent show, found herself in the bottom two alongside duo Acacia and Aaliyah.

Shan's mentor Simon and One Direction star Louis Tomlinson had opted to send Williams' act home, but Nile Rodgers - standing in for the touring singer - and Ayda chose Shan, therefore taking it to deadlock.

Fancy seeing you here: Robbie caught up with Jason Donovan on the night

Missed: Meanwhile, X Factor fans were disappointed that Robbie missed three consecutive weeks of live shows, due to his contractual obligations on tour

A need for speed: Robbie and Ayda tried out many of the attractions on offer and it looks like the stunner had won a Minnie mouse cuddly toy

Blue eyes: Robbie's jacket was an expensive Gucci number

Laughing: Ayda appeared rather amused as Robbie looked like he was taking things very seriously

With Shan facing the lowest number of public votes she was immediately axed - one of two eliminations on the night, with Bella Penfold also getting the boot after failing to impress on Big Band Night.

The decision outraged fans, with many accusing the judge of favouring Acacia and Aaliyah because they are mentored by her husband.

Taking to Twitter, one fan seethed: 'Ayda Field! Putting it to dead lock because she obviously didnt want to upset her husband!!! Joke! Fuming , my blood is actually boiling right now.'

While another ranted: 'I blame Ayda Field, THIS IS HER FAULT, A&A were in the bottom for THREE TIMES IN A ROW you chose not to vote, can’t you see that nobody likes those girls?. YOU LET SHAN GO when she is one of the biggest stars on the show.'

Looking good: Robbie cut a handsome figure as he walked along with his hands in his pockets

Reunited: The rock star was forced to miss a number of X Factor live shows due to his clashing tour commitments in America

====== 447 ========

UFC FIGHTER RACHAEL OSTOVICH'S HUSBAND ARRESTED FOR ATTEMPTED MURDER

UFC fighter Rachael Ostovich's husband has been arrested for attempted murder after allegedly breaking her eye socket in a brutal beating.

He was arrested on Monday evening on suspicion of second degree attempted murder and remains behind bars in a Honolulu jail, TMZ reports.

A family member told the website that Berdon plans to deny in court any allegations he assaulted his wife.

Earlier on Monday, Ostovich filed a restraining order against Berdon, 27, a day after she was viciously attacked and left with a shattered orbital bone.

Happier times: Rachael Ostovich's husband Arnold Berdon was arrested for attempted murder after allegedly beating her badly, causing the bone around her eye to break

The order was granted and set to stay in effect until May 18, 2019, which cops are investigating as a felony domestic violence case.

The incident, which occurred in Hawaii on Sunday, left Ostovich hospitalized with a broken orbital bone - a socket of the skull in which the eye and its appendages are situated - and other injuries.

Her injuries have led Ostovich to cancel her January 19 fight with Paige VanZant in Brooklyn.

She has allegedly 'pointed the finger' at her husband, which led her to file the restraining order, sources told TMZ.

Sad situation: Rachael was beaten up so badly in Hawaii this week, she had to be sent to the hospital. Police have called the domestic violence case a 'second-degree assault case'

He was in top shape: Berdon, who has his name tattoo'd on his chest, was an MMA fighter

It was added that Arnold 'is seeking a lawyer and intends to defend himself against allegations he attacked his wife. He will argue he was attacked first and defended himself.'

'The victim suffered head injuries and was treated at a hospital,' spokesperson Sarah Yoro told the MMA site.

The attack happened at 2 am Sunday morning at a residence in the Waianae section of Honolulu County, Yoro said.

Accusation: Though the Honolulu police department would only say the suspect is a '27-year-old male,' the site MMA Fighting has claimed it was her husband Arnold Berdon - a professional boxer - who was the one who beat her up

Honolulu PD does not release the names of those involved in alleged crimes, it was added.

On Monday morning she was released from the hospital. She has yet to share a statement on Instagram with her fans.

Ostovich's Sucker Punch Entertainment management released a statement on Monday evening.

Family portrait: Here the couple are seen out to dinner with daughter Ruby

'A very unfortunate incident occurred Sunday night with Rachael Ostovich that ended with her suffering a fractured orbital and other injuries.

'Rachael is now home from the hospital with family and will be going back for further check ups on her orbital. The family would like to ask for some privacy as they sort through this matter. We would like to thank the UFC for all their support on this matter as well as the fans and media for your concern.'

According to her Instagram page, she wed to fighter Berdon, 27, in April 2016, although now that a restraining order has been filed, divorce papers may soon follow.

Halloween fun: They were also seen on Halloween as Egyptians royalty

The bride and groom: According to her Instagram page, she wed to fighter Berdon, 27, in April 2016

The athlete often posts sexy bikini photos on the beach, earning her 356K followers on Instagram.

Her last post was a flashback bathing suit photo on the beach with the caption: 'Missin those summer days.'

The fight with VanZant would have elevated her career greatly.

Work it: Here she is seen in December 2017 in Las Vegas as she celebrates after her submission victory over Karine Gevorgyan of Armenia in their women's flyweight bout during the TUF Finale event inside Park Theater

No go? The attack happened at a very bad time: the brunette beauty was scheduled to fight Paige VanZant, right, in January. But now it has been canceled

Roadblock for her: The fight with VanZant would have elevated her career greatly

Ostovich is an American mixed martial artist who competes in the Flyweight division of UFC and weighs 125lbs.

Rachael began her career in 2010 when she was an amateur with the Mixed Martial Arts - in 2014 she went professional.

She moved on to The Ultimate Fighter in August 2017 and four months later she joined The Ultimate Fighter 26 Finale. She won the fight via armbar submission in the first round.

Her last big fight was with Montana de la Rosa in July at The Ultimate Fighter 27 Finale.

Tough time: This is the last Instagram post from Ostovich; she looks to be in Hawaii

====== 448 ========

PRINCESS BEATRICE JOINS FATHER ANDREW IN AUSTRALIA FOLLOWING HER TRIP TO LA

Princess Beatrice has joined father Prince Andrew in Australia just days after her trip to LA - thousands of miles away from her new boyfriend.

Beatrice, 30, looked chic in a black jacket and monochrome dress as she spoke at a women in business conference in Sydney, in her role at tech company Afiniti.

Meanwhile, Andrew, 58, is in Australia for a series of Pitch@Palace events for entrepreneurs - with the first one taking place at the Sydney Opera House on Sunday.

It comes after it emerged that the Duke of York's eldest daughter is dating multi-millionaire property tycoon Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi, who is understood to have met both Andrew and Fergie.

Princess Beatrice has joined father Prince Andrew in Australia just days after her trip to LA. Beatrice, 30, is speaking at a women in business conference

The trip has taken her thousands of miles away from London-based boyfriend Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi (pictured), a multi-millionaire property tycoon

Photographs of Beatrice at the women in business event in Australia were shared by proud mother Sarah Ferguson on Tuesday.

Posting the snaps, Fergie wrote: 'So proud of Beatrice who is in Australia representing Afiniti for women in business'.

Beatrice is vice-president of partnerships and strategy for the software company, which is based in the US.

The royal was spotted touching down at LA for work last Friday, where she was seen leaving the airport in an Uber.

Prince Andrew, 58, is in Australia for a series of Pitch@Palace events for entrepreneurs - with the first one taking place at the Sydney Opera House on Sunday

Her latest trip to Australia comes after it emerged that she is dating divorced father-of-one Edoardo, 34.

She is said to have already introduced the property developer to her parents, with friends saying they could be engaged very soon.

The royal is understood to have been dating the property tycoon, who has a two-year-old son from a previous relationship, for two months, enjoying a string of dates before even going on holiday together.

The pair share the same circle of friends and were introduced to each other through a mutual acquaintance.

The couple are believed to have started dating a month before Princess Eugenie's wedding in October, where Beatrice acted as maid-of-honour.

Pictures of Beatrice at the women in business conference in Australia were shared by proud mother Sarah Ferguson. Beatrice is seen wearing a polka dot dress at one of the events

====== 449 ========

KANYE WEST 'DONATES $500,000 TO CALIFORNIAN FIRE RELIEF FUND'

Kanye West has reportedly donated $500,000 to the Californian Fire Relief fund after the blaze devastated his neighbourhood.

The rapper, 41, who hired private firefighters to protect his $60million pound mansion, is said to have wanted to help contribute towards rebuilding the community.

Set to appear on the Ellen show on Wednesday, Kim Kardashian will speak about the wildbush fire which came within feet of their home.

Kanye West has reportedly donated $500,000 to the Californian Fire Relief fund after the blaze devastated his neighbourhood

According to TMZ, Kim tells host Ellen DeGeneres, the couple had a 'serious discussion' on how to help the community, with Kayne coming up with a plan of action.

The Golddigger hitmaker is said to have called up Adidas and his own Yeezy brand to build up donations, raising a staggering $500,000.

Meanwhile, the publication reports, Kim will further donate $200,000 to California Community Foundation's Wildfire Relief Fund and a $200,000 check to the California Fire Foundation.

Generous: The rapper, 41, who hired private firefighters to protect his multi-million pound mansion, is said to have wanted to help contribute towards rebuilding the community

Set to appear on the Ellen show on Wednesday, Kim Kardashian will speak about the wildbush fire which came within feet of their home

She is also said to present a $100,000 check to firefighter Michael Williams, who lost his house in the blaze but continued to battle the fire to save other peoples' homes.

As the fire ripped through Californian last week, the television personality kept her fans updated as the fire came with feet of their dream home.

The firefighters persistently dug ditches and hosed down the area amid the searing fires, TMZ reported last week.

'I heard the flames have hit our property at our home in Hidden Hills but now are more contained and have stopped at the moment,' she wrote on Twitter on November 9.

Out and about: Kanye was spotted at the Bel Air Hotel on Wednesday morning

Giving back: Kim tells host Ellen DeGeneres, the couple had a 'serious discussion' on how to help the community, with Kayne coming up with a plan of action

Showing support: The Golddigger hitmaker is said to have called up Adidas and his own Yeezy brand to build up donations, raising a staggering $500,000

'It doesn't seem like it is getting worse right now. I just pray the winds are in our favor. God is good. I'm just praying everyone is safe.'

She continues: 'Fire Fighters, I love you and thank you for doing all that you can to keep us safe!'

Overhead photos display a charred area surrounding the mansion, which was encroached by fire after authorities ordered a mandatory evacuation of the region, according to the outlet.

Heartwarming: Kim is said to also donate $200,000 to California Community Foundation's Wildfire Relief Fund and a $200,000 check to the California Fire Foundation

Neighbors of the reality TV queen and the Grammy-winning artist appreciated the efforts the couple made due to the layout of the area, the outlet reported.

A fire to Kim and Kanye's home, which is situated paralleled to a field and at the end of a cul-de-sac, could have triggered further home fires.

The couple evacuated their entire security team after reports the flames were encroaching on their home.

Scary: Kim Kardashian West tweeted: 'I heard the flames have hit our property at our home in Hidden Hills but now are more contained and have stopped at the moment.'

Kim showed her appreciation to those who fought the flames at the People's Choice Awards in Santa Monica last week.

Kim said she and her family were dedicating the best reality show award they won for Keeping Up with the Kardashians star 'to all of the firefighters, police offers, and first responders' who put their lives on the line to extinguish the fires.

'As horrible as this has been, it's been amazing to see the spirit of everyone involved,' Kim said. 'So anything that we can do to help the many organizations - no form of help is too small. We must continue to reach out and help each other in these trying times.'

Her husband Kanye also hinted at future efforts to preserve the neighborhood from fires.

'Building a fireproof community,' tweeted the 41-year-old enigmatically.

====== 450 ========

MICHELLE WOLF CLOBBERS TRUMP FOR SAYING SHE 'BOMBED' AT CORRESPONDENTS DINNER

B-list comedian Michelle Wolf fired back at President Donald Trump on Tuesday night after he said he might attend the next White House Correspondents Dinner because historian Ron Chernow will be the headliner after she 'bombed so badly.'

Wolf's withering attacks on Trump and his two most senior female aides rankled the White House and drew so much outrage that the White House Correspondents' Association was forced to distance itself from her afterward.

'So-called comedian Michelle Wolf bombed so badly last year at the White House Correspondents’ Dinner that this year, for the first time in decades, they will have an author instead of a comedian,' Trump tweeted Tuesday night. 'Good first step in comeback of a dying evening and tradition! Maybe I will go?'

Ninety minutes later Wolf tweeted a jab at the president: 'I bet you'd be on my side if I had killed a journalist. #BeBest.'

Comedian Michelle Wolf slammed President Donald Trump for saying her insult act at the 2018 White House Correspondents Dinner was so bad that the organizers were forced to invite a historian to headline their next event

The president said in a tweet that he might come to the 2019 event after skipping the first two of his presidency, saying, 'I bet you'd be on my side if I had killed a journalist'

The 'journalist' jab was a reference to Jamal Khashoggi, the occasional Washington Post columnist who was murdered inside the Saudi embassy in Istanbul, and whose death has been tied to a Saudi crown prince that Trump has refused to abandon

Trump has refused to concede that Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman (right) ordered the murder of the late Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi (left)

That barb was a reference to a lengthy afternoon statement in which Trump said he would do nothing to interrupt America's trading relationship with Saudi Arabia, even though evidence links the nation's crown prince with a plot to kill journalist Jamal Khashoggi.

Khashoggi, an occasional Washington Post columnist, was killed last month after entering the Saudi consulate in Istanbul.

'[I]t could very well be that the crown prince had knowledge of this tragic event – maybe he did and maybe he didn’t!' the president wrote.

Trump said Tuesday that the Saudis' hundreds of billions of dollars in U.S. military equipment purchases would go to China and Russia if he didn't stand his ground despite evidence of human rights violations.

He said Wednesday morning on Twitter that $54 per barrel oil prices, largely fueled by the Saudis' bending to Trump's wishes, are 'Like a big Tax Cut for America and the World.'

The president's tweet about the correspondents dinner 'doesn't necessarily mean' he will attend in April, a White House official said Wednesday morning.

Wolf mocked White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders during her April 2018 act, saying she 'burns facts and then she uses that ash to create a perfect smokey eye'

Wolf roasted counselor to the president Kellyanne Conway by saying her last name was 'perfect' for her job

The White House Correspondents Association announced this week that Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer Ron Chernow will speak at its annual dinner on April 27, 2019

Trump has skipped the first two of his presidency, holding competing rallies in Pennsylvania and Michigan on the same nights to overshadow the media attention they would otherwise have received.

But he shouldn't expect an apolitical lecture next year from Chernow, the author whose Alexander Hamilton biography was the inspiration for Lin Manuel-Miranda's hip-hop musical about America's first treasury secretary.

A week before the Republican National Convention in 2016, Chernow made a scolding, videotaped statement pleading for Americans not to elect Trump, and submitted it to a Facebook page created by filmmaker Ken Burns and author David McCullough.

'For the first time in my life I'm actually afraid that we Americans can forget who we are as a people, and succumb to historical amnesia. And make no mistake about it: When the past is scrubbed clean and American history becomes a blank slate, Donald Trump or any other demagogue can come along and write upon it whatever the hell he wants,' he warned.

'And that disturbs me most of all. Please, please, please folks, don't let it happen here.'

Chernow will likely deliver his criticism at a far lower temperature than Wolf, who likened White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders to a villain from 'The Handmaid's Tale' while she was seated a few yards away, stone-faced.

'I have to say I'm a little starstruck, I loved you as Aunt Lydia,' Wolf told Sanders during the April 28 event.

'I like Sarah,' she added minutes later, 'I think she's really resourceful. She burns facts and uses the ash to create a perfect smokey eye. Maybe she's born with it, maybe it's lies.'

Donald Trump was holding a political rally in Michigan when Wolf's jokes created Washington-wide the discomfort that resulted in a new approach this year

Wolf also jabbed Sanders as a disappointment to white women like her.

'I'm never really sure what to call Sarah Huckabee Sanders,' she began. 'Is it Sarah Sanders? Is it Sarah Huckabee Sanders? Is it Cousin Huckabee? Is it Aunt Huckabee Sanders?'

'What's "Uncle Tom," but for white women who disappoint other white women?'

Wolf slammed the White House Correspondents Association on Monday for choosing Chernow instead of another comic in her own mold.

'The @whca are cowards. The media is complicit. And I couldn't be prouder,' she tweeted.

In her routine, Wolf also took a shot at presidential counselor Kelyanne Conway's name – emphasizing the 'con.'

'Man, she has the perfect name for what she does. Conway,' Wolf said. 'It's like if my last name was tells-jokes-frizzy-hair-small-t*ts.'

====== 451 ========

CHRISTINA EL MOUSSA VICIOUSLY HITS BACK AT REPORT CLAIMING SHE'S FEUDING WITH JOANNA GAINES

HGTV's Flip or Flop star Christina El Moussa is firing back at tabloid claims that a feud is brewing between her and Fixer Upper star Joanna Gaines.

News of this supposed clash came after it was announced that Joanna Gaines and her husband Chip Gaines are launching their own network with Discovery, which owns HGTV.

El Moussa, 35, didn't pull any punches regarding the report, opening a recent Instagram post with, 'What a load of bulls**t.'

No war: Flip or Flop star Christina El Moussa debunked a tabloid report there was a 'war' brewing between her and Fixer Upper star Joanna Gaines, saying it's 'bulls--t.'

No feud: News of this supposed feud came after it was announced that Joanna Gaines and her husband Chip Gaines are launching their own network with Discovery, which owns HGTV

'I’ve never commented on a tabloid EVER (and have swallowed a load of s**t from these tabloids),' she said, adding that what the tabloid did, 'is disgusting.'

'I have always been a huge supporter of female entrepreneurs... #girlboss is my motto,' El Moussa added.

'Nothing but respect for @joannagaines,' she concluded, along with the heart emoji and #goodvibesonly hashtag.

El Moussa tagged Gaines in her Instagram post, but Gaines has not yet responded publicly to El Moussa's post.

Tagged: El Moussa tagged Gaines in her Instagram post, but Gaines has not yet responded publicly to El Moussa's post

Good vibes only: The Instagram post also included a photo from the original tabloid report, which featured an 'insider' who claimed that, 'Christina can't help feeling out-shined by Joanna, especially now that she's getting her own network'

The Instagram post also included a photo from the original tabloid report from In Touch, which featured an 'insider' who claimed that, 'Christina can't help feeling out-shined by Joanna, especially now that she's getting her own network.'

Christina still hosts Flip or Flop with her ex-husband Tarek El Moussa, but now she will be going solo with her new spin-off Christina on the Coast.

Christina El Moussa and Tarek El Moussa married in 2009, and have two kids together, eight year old daughter Taylor and three year old son Brayden.

The couple split in 2017 citing irreconcilable differences, following a 2016 incident where Tarek fled their home with a gun.

Looking fit: Christina El Moussa and Tarek El Moussa married in 2009, and have two kids together, eight year old daughter Taylor and three year old son Brayden

El Moussa has been dating British TV presenter Ant Anstead since November 2017.

Filming on Christina on the Coast began in the fall, with the show scheduled to debut on HGTV in 2019.

The first episode in the eight-episode season will focus on El Moussa renovating her new, post-divorce house.

The remaining episodes will then focus on El Moussa fixing up other people's homes.

====== 452 ========

PREGNANT MEGHAN ISN'T READY TO EMBRACE MATERNITY WEAR YET

She's in the second trimester of her first pregnancy, but the Duchess of Sussex isn't ready to ditch her favourite labels for maternity wear just yet.

Meghan, 37, looked radiant this morning in a £282 burgundy dress with a velvet collar from her favourite Canadian brand Club Monaco as she arrived at the Hubb Community Kitchen in West London.

The mother-to-be's above-the-knee dress was a rather more daring length than we're used to seeing on the Duchess who usually favours midi skirts and dresses ending at the mid-calf.

However, she sensibly wore black tights to keep the chill away and covered up in a festive dark berry coat, also from Club Monaco.

Both items worn by Meghan, who is expecting her first child with Prince Harry in the Spring, are from the brands main clothing line and are not maternity wear.

The Duchess is following in the footsteps of her sister-in-law Kate who managed to keep wearing non-maternity clothing from her favourite labels well in to her third pregnancy with Prince Louis.

Meghan, 37, looked radiant this morning in a burgundy dress with a velvet collar from her favourite Candian brand Club Monaco, teamed with a coat in a similar shade from the same brand

Meghan, pictured visiting with Zaheera Sufyaan at the Hubb Community Kitchen in West London, switched up her usual style by wearing a subtle berry lipstick to complement her outfit

The Duchess finished off the outfit with a pair of £770 black pointed ankle boots by her wedding dress designer, Givenchy.

She wore her brunette blocks swept back in a neat ponytail with a centre parting and kept her make-up glowing and natural.

Despite previously professing to dislike colourful lipstick, Meghan switched up her usual look and wore a subtle berry shade to complement her outfit.

Club Monaco is a firm favourite with Meghan who previously lived in Toronto when she was filming Suits.

Pregnant Meghan wore a coat and dress from Club Monaco's main fashion line, showing she's not ready to embrace maternity fashion just yet

The Duchess, who usually prefers midi length skirts and dresses, changed up her look in an above-the-knee shift from Canadian brand Club Monaco

It's known for its smart staples and prices that are at the top end of the high street, without veering into designer territory.

Despite embracing a new life in the UK, the royal is still fiercely loyal to brands from Canada and the US - with many recommended by her unofficial stylist Jessica Mulroney who lives in Toronto.

Earlier this year Meghan, 37, collaborated with the women from the Hubb Community Kitchen in West London on Together: Our Community Cookbook.

It featured more than 50 recipes from women whose community was affected by the Grenfell Tower fire in June last year, which left 72 people dead.

Meghan speaks to the chefs as she visits the community kitchen today to see how funds raised are making a difference

Today the pregnant duchess is seeing how the funds raised by the book - which shot to the top of the literary charts - are already making a difference.

Together has sold more than 40,000 copies in the UK and raised £210,000 so far in the seven weeks since it went on sale.

They set out to raise £250,000 to renovate the kitchen and open it seven days a week and expect to easily surpass that, especially with Christmas coming up.

Supported by The Royal Foundation and published by Penguin Random House companies, Together has raised enough funds for the kitchen to be completely redesigned and re-fitted, with the women's input, to capture what has been described as their 'joyful spirit'.

====== 453 ========

ELLEN POMPEO JOINS BOHEMIAN RHAPSODY STAR RAMI MALEK AT NEW YORK KNICKS GAME

She is a proud mother to three children; daughters Stella, nine, and Sienna, four, and son Eli, one.

And enjoying some quality time with her youngest child, Ellen Pompeo couldn't hide her delight as she joined son Eli and her beau Chris Ivery, 51, at Madison Square Gardens in New York for the latest Knicks game.

The Grey's Anatomy star, 49, cut a casual figure as she sat courtside with her family to watch the Knicks take on the Portland Trail Blazers, alongside a host of stars including Bohemian Rhapsody's Rami Malek.

Doting mother: Ellen Pompeo couldn't hide her delight as she joined son Eli and her beau Chris Ivery, 51, at Madison Square Gardens in New York for the latest Knicks game

Ellen looked nothing but content as she sat with son Eli on her lap throughout the game.

The actress was dressed down in a navy two-piece tracksuit that paired together a high-collared sweatshirt and tracksuit bottoms that boasted a white stripe on the side of each leg.

She sported box-fresh trainers on her feet and let her blonde locks fall past her shoulders. Sporting a minimal make-up look, Ellen flaunted her youthful looks with a dewy complexion and bronzed cheekbones.

Nail-biting: A host of stars including Bohemian Rhapsody's Rami Malek were in the crowd to watch the Knicks get narrowly defeated by the Portland Trail Blazers

Sweet: Grey's Anatomy star Ellen, 49, cut a casual figure as she sat with her youngest child, son Eli, one, on her lap

She was joined at the match by her husband Chris, whom she has been married to for 11 years. Chris was clad in an all-black ensemble and seemed completely enamored with son Eli, as the tot ensured he was distracted from the match playing out in front of them.

Ellen's appearance at the Knicks game - which saw them narrowly defeated by the Portland Trail Blazers - comes after she confirmed last month that there will be another season of Grey's Anatomy.

The star - best known for playing Meredith Grey on the hit show - revealed that she has signed a contract for season 16 and claimed that there is currently 'no end in sight', despite rumours season 16 could be the last of Grey's Anatomy.

Beauty: The actress was dressed down in a navy two-piece tracksuit and flaunted her youthful looks with a minimal make-up look

Cheering on the Knicks: She was joined at the match by her husband Chris (far L), whom she has been married to for 11 years

She said: 'My contract is through Season 16, so I'm completely obligated to do Season 16 and these numbers, there's just no end in sight, with streaming and the show is so popular.'

Meanwhile, she was joined at the basketball game by Bohemian Rhapsody star Rami Malek - who appeared to be flying solo and without his co-star love Lucy Boynton, as he enjoyed the match with pal Spike Lee instead.

Rami cut a cool figure for the gripping match in a black shirt, buttoned up to the collar, and jeans.

Star-studded crowd: Bohemian Rhapsody star Rami Malek appeared to be flying solo and without his co-star love Lucy Boynton, as he enjoyed the match with pal Spike Lee (far L)

Dapper: Rami cut a cool figure for the gripping match in a black shirt, buttoned up to the collar, and jeans

Iconic role: He has further been thrust into the spotlight recently, after playing Freddie Mercury in biopic Bohemian Rhapsody

He has further been thrust into the spotlight recently, after playing Freddie Mercury in biopic Bohemian Rhapsody.

The movie follows the lives of Mercury and rock band Queen throughout their rise to fame and success in the '80s, before tensions rose as Mercury signed a solo deal.

It details Freddie's relationship with manager Paul Prenter, how he reconciled with his bandmates before taking to the stage for Bob Geldof's Live Aid concert held at Wembley and Freddie's death from AIDS in 1991.

Speaking about the iconic role, Malek revealed in an interview with The Guardian that he knew in his gut, he should take it. Revealing what he was thinking on being offered the role, he said: 'I must do this. [It's a ] kind of the gun-to-the-head moment, what do you do? And I like to think if it's a fight of flight situation, I'm going to fight.'

Stealing the show: Speaking about the iconic role, Malek revealed in an interview with The Guardian that he knew in his gut, he should take it, likening it to a 'gun-to-the-head moment'

Eye-catching: US film director Spike Lee stood out from the crowd in a neon orange knitted jumper as he sat alongside Malek

Malek continued: 'The scariest endeavours that I've chosen to take in my life have been the most fulfilling and rewarding. And this has proven to defend that equation.'

He was forced to wear fake teeth while portraying the character of Freddie, in order to mimic the star's iconic overbite, and had to learn to sing and talk in them.

Freddie famously decided not to have his teeth straightened as he didn't want to mess with his wide vocal range.

Following filming, Malek decided to have the teeth cast in gold to commemorate the movie and his time as Mercury.

He explained to the New Yorker: 'I had the teeth cast in gold. It is the most ostentatious thing I have probably ever done and, in the spirit of being Freddie, being as outlandish as I could, I said, "What would be more him than casting these in gold?"'

Malek stars in Bohemian Rhapsody alongside girlfriend Boynton - who plays Freddie's girlfriend Mary, Ben Hardy, Mike Myers, Joseph Mazzello and Gwilym Lee.

Tense: Actress and model Chloe Sevigny appeared to be biting on her cheek as she watched the basketball match play out in front of her

Cool: She made a stylish appearance at the match in leopard print trousers and a leather coat

Specs appeal: She donned a pair of retro-framed glasses and left her blonde locks down

====== 454 ========

GWYNETH PALTROW SHARES NEW PHOTO OF HER DRESSED IN WEDDING GOWN AND VEIL FOR GOOP MAGAZINE COVER

Gwyneth Paltrow married producer Brad Falchuk September 29, 2018.

Now, nearly two months later, and the Academy Award-winning actress is the cover star for Goop Magazine to commemorate her big day.

For its fourth issue Paltrow can be seen showing off her veil and the back of her gown as she peers out of a window.

Cover girl: Gwyneth Paltrow makes the cover of Goop Magazine in her wedding gown and veil

In the photo, Paltrow is leaning over showing off the back of her couture Valentino lace gown.

The image is full of light and reveals Paltrow's long blonde tresses and the back of the dress, which plunges past the middle of her back.

The elegant number appears to be an equal amount of sheer fabric and lace.

Proper ceremony: Paltrow and husband Brad Falchuk has shared a number of pictures from their September wedding in the Hamptons, which is on Long Island, NY

Small but lavish: The wedding was a star studded affair which included guests like Robert Downey Jr, Jerry Seinfeld, Steven Spielberg, Cameron Diaz, Benji Madden and Rob Lowe

In recent weeks, the 46-year old has shared a number of pictures from her big day, but this is the first time fans have been able to get a glimpse of the back of the dress, according to InStyle.

Paltrow wore the Valentino dress for the ceremony and dinner and then changed into a dress by Stella McCartney for dancing portion of the night.

The ceremony took place at her mansion in the Hamptons on Long Island, New York.

Guests included Robert Downey Jr, Jerry Seinfeld, Steven Spielberg, Cameron Diaz, Benji Madden and Rob Lowe. Ex-husband Chris Martin was not there; instead the Coldplay frontman was a two hour drive away in New York City at the Global Citizen Festival.

Together Paltrow and Martin have two children: Apple, 14, and Moses, 12. They wed in 2003 and were together for 10 years before 'consciously uncoupling'; they finalized their divorce in 2016.

It's a match: The couple reported started dating in 2014

Paltrow is the founder and CEO of Goop.

In this latest issue, editors look back at the 10-years of the company, which began as a weekly e-mail newsletter providing new age advice. A lifestyle website was later added and then Goop expanded into e-commerce, collaborating with fashion brands and eventually the launching of pop-up shops and the print magazine.

The Goop issue, with Paltrow on the cover, will hit newsstands November 27.

====== 455 ========

TONI BRAXTON MAKES PLEA FOR HER ENGAGEMENT RING TO BE RETURNED AFTER IT GOT SWIPED ON A DELTA FLIGHT

Toni Braxton is making a desperate plea for her stolen engagement ring to be returned - 'no questions asked'.

The 51-year old singer left one of her bags on a Delta flight on Tuesday. Then after several attempts to get in touch with the airline, she got her bag back - only to find that some of her jewelry was missing, including her prized engagement ring.

'Feeling back to my old self again, yay!' Braxton captioned on Instagram Wednesday, along with a picture of her wearing her ring. 'But I’m sad today my engagement ring is missing but I’m optimistic that someone will find Bonnie and return her home!'

Rude awakening: Toni Braxton had jewelry stolen, which included her engagement ring, from a bag that she mistakenly left on a Delta flight on Tuesday

It all began when she took a flight from JFK Airport in New York to LAX in Los Angeles on Tuesday.

After realizing that she had mistakenly left her bag on the plane, Braxton shared on Twitter that she found it 'impossible to get any type of assistance from anyone in the company!'

She added: 'Can someone let delta know I’m trying to get in contact w/them?I’ve tried to no avail pls help you’re my favorite airlines.'

Desperate: Braxton made a plea for her engagement ring to be returned in a tweet

Hitched! The Grammy winning singer got engaged to rapper Baby aka Birdman in February

The initial plea worked. The airline found the bag but most of the jewelry inside it was missing.

'Whoever BORROWED it...PLEEEASE return it!!!! I promise, no questions asked!' an emotional Braxton shared in a follow-up tweet.

At this point there's no telling how much the ring is worth monetarily, but considering that it's her engagement ring from fiancee Baby aka Birdman, the value is no doubt immeasurable to her.

Getting personal: Braxton talked about her engagement on The Wendy Williams Show

The couple got engaged back in February after dating since April 2016.

During an appearance on The Wendy Williams Show that aired on Tuesday, the Grammy Award-winner showed off her ring, saying of Birdman: 'He did good right?'

She also talked about their plan to set a wedding date are still in the works, and that their professional commitments and a family situation have delayed the process.

Braxton added that the rapper, whose real name is Bryan Christopher Williams, has implored her to 'set a date' for them to exchange their vows.

====== 456 ========

ROSAMUND PIKE LOOKS CHIC IN SHEER COLOUR BLOCK JUMPER AS SHE CELEBRATES A PRIVATE WAR LAUNCH

Her portrayal as the hard-hitting journalist Marie Colvin in A Private War has received critical acclaim.

And Rosamund Pike cut a stylish figure as she attended a lunch at Mark's Club in London on Wednesday to celebrate the release of the film.

The actress, 39, teased a hint of her black lingerie underneath her colour block ribbed jumper.

Chic: Rosamund Pike cut a stylish figure as she attended a lunch to celebrate her film A Private War at Mark's Club in London on Wednesday

Rosamund highlighted her trim frame in the autumnal ensemble, mixing burnt orange with black.

She complemented the jumper with a formal form-fitting black skirt and added a boost to her height with velvet heels.

The Gone Girl star styled her sleek blonde locks in a straight centre-parting and accentuated her natural beauty with deftly touches of make-up.

Racy: The actress, 39, teased a hint of her black lingerie underneath her colour block ribbed jumper

Stylish: Rosamund highlighted her trim frame in the autumnal ensemble, mixing burnt orange with black (pictured with Isabella Traglio)

Fashion maven: She complemented the jumper with a formal form-fitting black skirt and added a boost to her height with velvet heels (picture with Christiane Amanpour)

The former Bond girl previously chatted about why she wanted to play a part in her latest movie A Private War.

Rosamund transforms into the fearless and rebellious war correspondent Marie Colvin who is driven to the frontline across the globe.

The talented star discussed struggling to detach herself from playing Colvin, 52, who was killed during a rocket strike in Syria in 2012.

She told Town and Country Magazine: 'I wanted to capture her spirit of rebellion. But I also had to dive into Curie’s bitterness. I want people to care about journalism again.'

Rosamund previously said she researched the role heavily, spending time with Colvin's close friends and watching videos of her.

Sophisticated: The Gone Girl star styled her sleek blonde locks in a straight centre-parting and accentuated her natural beauty with deftly touches of make-up (pictured with Andrea Broggian)

Gripping portrayal: Rosamund transforms into the fearless and rebellious war correspondent Marie Colvin who is driven to the frontline across the globe in A Private War

In an interview with The Sunday Times magazine, Rosamund said of her latest starring role: 'I have taken responsibility for this one. I care very much about it, about the whole thing.'

Asides from her busy career, the actress is a doting mum to sons Solo, aged six and Atom, now three.

Rosamund has been romancing her long-term love Robie Uniacke since they first started dating in 2009.

And while she is one of the most beautiful actresses in Hollywood, Rosamund insisted bystanders see her as a 'regular' mum.

She told the publication: 'People might recognise me, but I think they just see me as a mother trying to handle small kids on the subway.'

====== 457 ========

KYLIE'S MINOGUE GUARDED BY 20 POLICE OFFICERS WITH SUBMACHINE GUNS AT HER COLOGNE CONCERT

Kylie Minogue was reportedly guarded by approximately 20 police officers at her Cologne concert on Tuesday, after a security threat from Belgium.

The 50-year-old performed in Germany as part of her Golden tour, with German police protecting the pop princess and concert goers armed with submachine guns.

According to DW.com, German newspaper Bild reported a man made threats against the Australian pop princess, with pictures of the man being plastered around the venue.

Kylie's concert terror: Pop Princess Minogue guarded by 20 police officers with submachine guns at her Cologne concert after security threat from Belgium (pictured performing at the concert)

Belgian police were also contacted about the threat.

The publication reports all men were frisked before being allowed into the venue, with up to 2,500 guests in attendance.

According to multiple reports, all men at the concert had their identities checked.

Scare: The publication reports all men were frisked before being allowed into the venue, with up to 2,500 guests in attendance (pictured performing in Italy recently)

DW.com reports a police spokesman told German news agency DPA: 'The organisers contacted us due to a possible threat scenario based on evaluating social media platforms.'

'When it comes to things like that, we cannot simply stand by.'

Fortunately the show went on as planned and 'without any disturbance.'

Showgirl: Fortunately the show went on as planned and 'without any disturbance' (pictured in Italy)

Indeed after the concert, the hit maker took to Instagram to share a shot of herself onstage during the show, writing: 'Thank you #COLOGNE!!!'

'Was such an amazing night,' one fan commented underneath.

Another added: 'Thank you for this wonderful concert!'

Daily Mail Australia has contacted representatives for Kylie in relation to this article.

On the road: Kylie will play in Amsterdam, Netherlands, on Thursday, before heading to Copenhagen, Denmark, on Friday. She will return to Germany to play a show in Hamburg on Saturday

Kylie will play in Amsterdam, Netherlands, on Thursday, before heading to Copenhagen, Denmark, on Friday.

She will return to Germany to play a show in Hamburg on Saturday, before heading back to the UK for more shows.

The Spinning Around singer will tour Australia in March, with her first show taking place in Sydney on March 5.

====== 458 ========

BOLLYWOOD SUPERSTAR AMITABH BACHCHAN PAYS OFF £438,000 OF DEBT OWED BY 1,398 FARMERS

Bollywood film star Amitabh Bachchan (pictured in September) has cleared 40 million rupees worth of loans taken out by farmers in the ongoing agricultural crisis

Bollywood film star Amitabh Bachchan has been hailed as a hero after clearing 40 million rupees (£438,000) worth of loans taken out by almost 1,400 farmers in his home state in northern India.

An ongoing agricultural crisis has seen India's farmers hit hard by a drop in commodity prices, stagnant wages, record fuel prices and high fertiliser costs.

Bachchan, one of Indian cinema's most revered actors, wrote in his blog this week that he had helped 1,398 farmers from the northern state of Uttar Pradesh and felt a 'sense of accomplishment'.

'Gratitude leans across to the desire of removing some of the burdens that farmers continue to suffer... and the inner peace it generates when the desired is completed,' he wrote.

The agricultural crisis has sparked rallies across the country this year calling for better prices for produce and loan waivers.

Farmers and other agriculture workers together make up about half India's 1.3 billion people.

'It is a very big problem that has left farmers across the country in dire straits,' Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Indian Farmers' Union) told the Thomson Reuters Foundation in a phone interview.

'The government policies are flawed and need an overhaul. We are fighting for that change but are thankful for any help that comes along the way.'

Tikait said Bachchan's gesture might have been symbolic but it meant a lot for farmers who were struggling to survive.

More than 12,600 farmers and agricultural workers committed suicide in 2015 alone, accounting for about 10 percent of all suicides in India, with almost 60 percent of suicides caused by bankruptcy and indebtedness, according to official data.

====== 459 ========

CLEVER DOG SCALES A DOOR TO TUG ON THE HANDLE TO OPEN IT IN THAILAND

This is the ingenious moment a puppy scaled the front door of a house and opened it to let its friend inside.

The dog was filmed jumping up and using its mouth to grab a piece of rope hanging on the doorknob.

It yanked the handle down, causing the door to swing open and let another puppy wander inside.

The crafty brown puppy scales metal bars on the front door to reach the handle at a home in Thailand

It yanked the handle down, causing the door to swing open and let another puppy wander inside - before it followed behind (pictured)

A larger dog then appears and shuts the door behind them in a tremendous showing of team work

The crafty canine then jumped from the door and a larger dog - which was already inside the home - pushed the door wide open to let him inside.

The bigger dog then shut the door behind them both and the gate closed with a bang.

The dogs were reportedly trained to open the doors to let themselves out for the toilet when their owner is away

The dogs were reportedly trained to open the doors to let themselves out for the toilet when their owner is away.

The pups were praised for their tremendous team efforts on social media, with users also commenting on their cute miniature red and pink coats.

The clip was filmed somewhere in Thailand.

====== 460 ========

'MENTALLY BROKEN' FOXES AND MINK ARE PICTURED IN FINNISH FUR FARMS WHERE ANIMALS SUFFER PAINFULLY

Mink, foxes and raccoon dogs are forced to tear each other to pieces as they suffer appalling conditions in Finnish fur farms.

An investigation by the Humane Society International (HSI) was launched and they have released shocking footage and images of the conditions the animals face to coincide with International Fur-Free Friday.

The footage reveals animals are forced into cannibalism and kept in tiny cages with raw wounds festering.

The miserable foxes, mink and raccoon dogs suffer with deformed feet, diseased eyes and open lacerations across their bodies.

Scroll down for video

A fox has had an ear ripped off and suffers from red eyes as it lives in a cramped cage inside a Finnish fur farm; the Humane Society International went to Finland to investigate two certified fur farms and took these harrowing images

Two of the animals fight in their tiny cage; the conditions the animals live in, not only damages their physical health, but also their mental health and they are forced to become more aggressive

A gorgeous black fox - one of the rarest breeds in the UK - is caged in a Finnish fur farm, no doubt his black coat will fetch a premium from overseas buyers

Raccoon dogs are packed tightly into their prisons to maximize efficiency and profit; since 2003 the UK has imported £14 million worth of fur from Finland

Fur farming confines animals for all their lives before they are harvested for the coat on their back - mink are killed by gassing and foxes and raccoon dogs are killed by anal electrocution.

Veterinary professor, Alastair MacMillan, looked at the footage and said it 'shows the toll that the continued isolation and confinement is having on these animals, many are showing signs of severe physical and psychological distress.

'Several of the mink and foxes have open, infected wounds and several foxes have grossly diseased eyes which will be extremely painful.

'If this is the best the fur industry can offer animals, no wonder so many designers, retailers and now cities no longer want anything to do with it.'

Two mink can be seen with injuries, the one on the left with an open wound on its nose and the one on the right with blood and reddening on its face; he may have come out the better on this occasion as the helpless animals attack each other

A fox curiously approaches the camera, it appears to be nervous and timid around the people; this could be an indication of the treatment he has suffered at the hands of his owners

In the UK fur farming has been banned since 2000 but Britain continues to import fur from a variety of species including foxes, rabbits, mink, coyotes, raccoon dogs and chinchillas.

The charity wants Britain's Environment Secretary Michael Gove to 'stop his double standard' and stop importing furs.

The UK director of the Humane Society, Claire Bass, was so shocked she staged a protest by locking herself in a cage yesterday for 24 hours outside the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs in London.

A UK ban would follow in the footsteps of similar action in West Hollywood, Berkley and San Francisco.

The footage taken by HSI showed two fur farms where thousands of mink, foxes and raccoon dogs are being raised for fur.

The fox on the left appears to have a sore wound to its right flank as it bows in submission to another fox who is about to take a bite into the top of its head

The mink on the left's eye is closed and looks very raw with blood and pus seeping out, while the rear of a mink can be seen on the right with its fur torn off and packed with dirt that has got stuck to the blood

Each of the fur farms was certified by the fur industry as being 'high welfare', despite the harrowing pictures.

Since the UK's ban took effect in 2003, they have imported nearly £700 million of fur, including £14 million worth from Finland.

Finnish farms are the biggest producers of fox fur in Europe where around 2.5 million foxes are reared and electrocuted every year for the global fur trade.

Other exporters include Italy, France, Poland, China and Russia where the conditions on fur farms are as bad or even worse.

Ms Bass said: 'Seeing first hand these animals mentally broken on fur farms and even driven to cannibalism has been utterly heart-breaking.

A raccoon dog appears to be obese as the animals are not cared for properly and lead a poor quality of life, nothing like they should as wild animals

A white fox, a breed which we do not have in the UK, looks frightened as a camera lens it pressed up against the wire of its cage

Another white fox has its tail wrapped through the fence and at its base the tail has become detached partly to reveal a bloody open wound

'In their tiny barren cages these animals have zero quality of life, they merely exist as shadows of the wild animals they should be.

'It's sickening that the fur trade still attempts to justify this blatant animal suffering, and we hope that our investigation will encourage designers still using this fur to see through the travesty of so-called "high welfare fur."'

A Finnish animal right activist, Oikeutta Elaimille, who accompanied HSI on the fur farm visits, said: 'Tragically what we saw on these farms is far from unusual.

A wider angle of mink in their cages shows the tiny space they are confined to; a venerinary professor, Alistair MacMillan said: 'If this is the best the fur industry can offer animals, no wonder so many designers, retailers and now cities no longer want anything to do with it'

A disturbing gash can be seen in the side of this fox's abdomen as a small toy provided for them to gnaw on has not sufficed for one of his vicious neighbors

A younger white fox has suffered catastrophic wounding to its left eye which is one of a number of animals who suffers from blindness due to the appalling conditions

Two mink lie down in their horrible cage, with their feet hanging through the wire which is covered in detritus and flecks of fur

'I have visited more than one hundred fur farms and the suffering of the animals has been obvious in every single trip.

'More and more countries are banning fur farming and the Finnish government's support for it is looking increasingly isolated and outdated.'

In July, the Environment Food and Rural Affairs (EFRA) Select Committee published a report on its inquiry into the UK fur trade, including recommending that the government holds a public consultation on banning the sale of animal fur in the UK.

Finland's ProFur director of communications said earlier this year: 'Fur industry is part of the Finnish bio-economy and circular economy.

'It brings 400 - 500 million euros annual export incomes especially to rural areas. It is traditional, responsible and constantly developing. I want to be part of making fur industry more transparent to the general public.'

Johanna Korpela, a veterinarian for the Finnish Fur Breeders’ Association, said today: 'The symptoms that some animals had in photos are regrettable and everything has been done in daily care routines to prevent such. But as in all animal farming, there will be the rare occasion when sicknesses or wounds etc can occur.

'Although responsible fur farmers are doing their best, it is possible that some of the thousands of production animals can suddenly fall ill. Four dead animals out of the 12,000 animals on the mink farm on the date of the secret filming equals 0.033% mortality, which is below the typical figures in the production animal sector.'

A statement from the organisation says that minks become distressed by intruders and torches and may become aggressive towards each other, adding that sudden eye infections or wounds can also occur between care and feeding rounds despite careful animal husbandry.

'Both of the farms involved have valid Finnish Standards Fox/Mink/Finnraccoon certification and both farms have been inspected according to this certification programme,' the statement reads.

'Official veterinarians and ProFur’s own veterinarians have inspected both farms. A municipal veterinarian visited the second shed area on the farm in Southern Ostrobothnia on the day of the intrusion, on 2 October, and the farm at Ostrobothnia on 5 October, as a separate request due to the intrusion.

'The farms received no complaints. There are more than 12,000 minks on the farm in Ostrobothnia and 2,000 foxes and Finnraccoons on the farm in Southern Ostrobothnia.'

A recent report by the Daily Mail found that many UK shops, including TK Maxx and Amazon were selling real fur - such as fox and raccoon dog - as faux-fur.

====== 461 ========

HALF-NAKED MAN ARRESTED FOR ASSAULTING A WHATABURGER MANAGER DIES AT HOSPITAL IN TEXAS

A half-naked man who was arrested for assaulting a Whataburger manager later died at a hospital in Texas.

Houston Police Department Chief Larry Satterwhite said during a press conference that the man entered the restaurant located at 9517 Bissonnet Street and started destroying property.

'He appeared to be in severe crisis. We don't know what caused it,' Satterwhite said, adding that the man was throwing trash cans and chairs at employees and customers. The man also jumped up on the counter.

Houston Police Department Chief Larry Satterwhite said a half-naked man who was arrested for assaulting a Whataburger (pictured) manager later died at a local hospital

Satterwhite said during a press conference that the man entered the restaurant and started destroying property and throwing things at customers and staff

The man, who appeared to be in his 40s, was throwing trash cans and chairs and jumped up on the counter. Tea urns are seen on the restaurant's floor along with a turned over chair

Video courtesy of CW39

Satterwhite said the man continued acting in a 'violent manner', and he was only wearing shirt.

Employees of the Whataburger immediately called 911.

The employees also tried to evacuate the restaurant, but the man followed them out and assaulted the manager.

'He knocked her to the ground and started assaulting her. The other employees managed to knock him off of her,' Satterwhite said.

Satterwhite said the woman suffered a knee injury but was otherwise OK.

The man, who appeared to be in his 40s, then fled the scene as police arrived.

He continued to run from authorities who chased him on foot before they were able to arrest him.

Satterwhite said during the arrest that 'there was a struggle to get him handcuffed'.

Employees of the Whataburger immediately called 911. The employees also tried to evacuate the restaurant, but the man followed them out and assaulted the manager. Police are seen inside the restaurant after the incident

The man then fled the scene, but he was later captured by police. During the arrest 'there was a struggle to get him handcuffed' and the man became unresponsive. He later died at a local hospital. Pictured is the Whataburger located at 9517 Bissonnet Street

By the time the officers were able to get him to a patrol car, the man collapsed and became 'unresponsive', Satterwhite said.

Officers called emergency responders who transported the unidentified man to a local hospital where he died a short time later.

'It's a very tragic situation, Satterwhite said, adding that they are still trying to determine the cause of death.

But Satterwhite said officers observed a two-inch puncture wound on the man's side; however, it's unclear if that contributed to the man's death.

No other information has been provided by authorities at this time. The investigation is ongoing.

====== 462 ========

HILARIOUS MOMENT JADE THE GERMAN SHEPHERD GETS HER HEAD STUCK IN A TAKEOUT FOOD BAG

A pooch proved just how much she loves a doggie bag when she got one stuck on her head.

In an adorable video posted on November 10, an adorable pooch - named Jade - gets her head stuck in a takeout bag at her owner's Ottawa, Ontario, home.

'My dog got her head stuck in my paper takeout food bag while she was trying to get the crumbs from the bottom,' the owner said in the video caption. 'I had to pull the bag off her head when she stopped flailing around.'

In an adorable video posted on November 10, an adorable pooch - named Jade - gets her head stuck in a takeout bag while at her owner's Ottawa, Ontario, home

The clip opens with Jade almost immediately getting her head stuck in the bag.

She starts freaking out, soon after, backing up and trying to figure out the best way to get the bag off.

Her owner films the spectacle, laughing and telling Jade to come to her so that she can take the bag off.

'My dog got her head stuck in my paper takeout food bag while she was trying to get the crumbs from the bottom,' the owner said in the video caption. 'I had to pull the bag off her head when she stopped flailing around'

Jade continues struggling and her owner can't help containing her laughter.

'That's why you don't stick your head in bags that don't belong to you,' the owner added.

Eventually she is able to get close enough to Jade to pull the bag off.

====== 463 ========

EX ON THE BEACH STAR KAYLEIGH MORRIS SHOWS OFF HER SENSATIONAL FIGURE IN VIBRANT BIKINI

She's escaped to warmer climes as the British winter chill finally sets in.

And Kayleigh Morris relished another day in the sunshine as she stripped down to a tiny bikini and larked around on the beach in Tenerife recently.

The Ex On The Beach star, 30, was bound to set more than a few pulses racing as she splashed around in the sea before taking a walk along the shoreline in her vibrant swimwear.

Sight for shore eyes! Kayleigh Morris relished another day in the sunshine as she stripped down to a tiny bikini and larked around on the beach in Tenerife recently

The TV personality showed off her senational figure in a bandeau cobalt blue bikini that would have saved the beauty from any awkward tan lines.

She paired the skimpy bikini top with printed turquoise bottoms that flattered her toned curves by sitting just above the hips.

Not one to scrimp on the glamour, Kayleigh added to her allure with a gorgeous make-up look that comprised a smokey eyeshadow, false lashes and a soft pink lipstick.

Making waves! The Ex On The Beach star, 30, was bound to set more than a few pulses racing as she splashed around in the sea

Beach babe: The TV personality showed off her senational figure in a bandeau cobalt blue bikini that would have saved the beauty from any awkward tan lines

Sizzling! She paired the skimpy bikini top with printed turquoise bottoms that flattered her toned curves by sitting just above the hips

Embracing the effect the ocean had on her brunette tresses, the star allowed her long locks to cascade around her face in natural waves.

Kayleigh recently told fans on Instagram that she had undergone rhinoplasty after years of feeling insecure about the shape of her nose.

The Big Brother star who was famously attacked for her 'wonky nose' by her co-star Jemma Lucy, proudly flaunted the rhinoplasty results as she praised the surgery for making her 'finally feel normal'.

Glam: Not one to scrimp on the glamour, Kayleigh added to her allure with a gorgeous make-up look that comprised a smokey eyeshadow, false lashes and a soft pink lipstick

Hair she is! Embracing the effect the ocean had on her brunette tresses, the star allowed her long locks to cascade around her face in natural waves

Nailed it! Kayleigh appeared to have treated herself to some pre-holiday preening as she showed off her bright coral nails

She captioned the image: 'The weird feeling of being able to post a pic in 14 years without editing the Nose!!!

'2 weeks after surgery @elitecosmeticsurgery Work of the miracle worker @dr.aliuckan'.

She shared another snap as she gushed: 'Finally can feel normal again'.

Making changes: Kayleigh recently told fans on Instagram that she had undergone rhinoplasty after years of feeling insecure about the shape of her nose

====== 464 ========

LOVE ISLAND'S LAURA ANDERSON FROLICS WITH OLIVIA BUCKLAND DURING DUBAI TRIP

They starred on Love Island with a two year gap between seasons.

Yet Laura Anderson and Olivia Buckland have still formed a close friendship within the reality star circle as they lived it up in style during a group getaway to Dubai alongside Olivia's husband Alex Bowen on Thursday.

The 29-year-old Scottish stunner sported a barely-there camel coloured bikini which barely-covered her ample assets while her predecessor, 24, wore a sizzling white two-piece which showed off her tattooed figure to perfection.

Cheeky! Laura Anderson and Olivia Buckland have still formed a close friendship within the reality star circle as they lived it up in style during a group getaway to Dubai alongside Olivia's husband Alex Bowen on Thursday

Laura soared to fame on this year's series of the ITV2 show, and while she won huge popularity among viewers she was unlucky in love.

Having split from Paul Knops in September, she is now living the single life in style - as illustrated by her jaunt to Dubai alongside her fellow reality stars.

She was no doubt turning heads as she slipped into the saucy two-piece which failed to contain her eye-popping assets from beneath the tiny top.

She allowed her blonde locks to tumble over her shoulders in loose lengths while she still applied lavish make-up despite being poolside.

Wow! The 29-year-old Scottish stunner sported a barely-there camel coloured bikini which barely-covered her ample assets while her predecessor, 24, wore a sizzling white two-piece which showed off her tattooed figure to perfection

Hot stuff! Olivia, who married Alex in an idyllic Essex ceremony earlier this year, looked sensational in a white bikini with high-rise sides and a barely-there top

Olivia, who married Alex in an idyllic Essex ceremony earlier this year, looked sensational in a white bikini with high-rise sides and a barely-there top.

She added her trademark edgy touch with a pair of Nineties-inspired glasses while also rocking flawless make-up to perfect the beach look.

Ever the joker, the Essex-born beauty shared a hilarious video in which she was desiring attention from her beau while poking him with her foot.

Hot stuff! Olivia and Alex are currently living in newlywed bliss and certainly looked enamoured during their romantic getaway

Larking around! Olivia was playing around in the ocean while showing off her figure

Alex was showing off his inked-up physique as he smouldered in his tiny swim trunks while he added an edgy hoop earring to complete his stylish look.

They were joined by Geordie Shore and Ex On The Beach star Zahida Allen as Olivia marvelled at the reality veteran's sensational figure.

The trip was proving to be raucous as they whole group were drinking, dancing, climbing on sofas and frolicking around the luxurious beach club.

Cheeky: Ever the joker, the Essex-born beauty shared a hilarious video in which she was desiring attention from her beau while poking him with her foot

====== 465 ========

THE BACHELOR'S DASHA GAIVORONSKI REVEALS HER SECRET AT-HOME EXERCISE ROUTINE

She is the Bachelor beauty whose incredible physique left Nick Cummins speechless.

And Dasha Gaivoronski has revealed at-home workouts her legions of follows can do to achieve an incredible body and toned abs like hers.

The 34-year-old took to Instagram on Friday, to share a series of clips of herself doing total body workouts with just a kettle bell and TRX suspension system.

Scroll down for video

'This is the perfect total body workout in my opinion': The Bachelor's Dasha Gaivoronski reveals the at-home exercise routine behind her incredible physique and washboard abs

She kicks off her circuit with simple kettlebell swings followed by kettlebell lunges with an added twist in the lunge position.

The stunner's next workout was a modified squat that alternated between centre, left and right positions, using the TRX to help her keep balance.

Dasha changed up the frenetic activity with leg swings that targeted her inner and outer thighs.

Training: She kicks off her circuit with simple kettlebell swings followed by kettlebell lunges with an added twist in the lunge position

After the simple toning exercise, she amped it up with modified burpee with a squat.

To complete the total body circuit, the brunette beauty went back to the TRX and did a pull up twist.

In the caption the brunette beauty wrote: 'This is the perfect total body workout in my opinion - a little bit of resistance, a couple of challenging moves for your balance, a bit of plyometrics.'

Changing pace: The stunner's next workout was a modified squat that alternated between centre, left and right positions, using the TRX to help her keep balance

Keeping it simple: Dasha changed up the frenetic activity with leg swings that targeted her inner and outer thighs

This comes after the Adelaide based personal trainer spoke about the power of moderation and the exercise in a recent Instagram Q and A session with her fans.

The mum-of-one revealed that she has stopped counting calories, she wrote, 'I subconsciously know the amount I want to eat ideally based on how active I am in a given day.'

'Let's just say if I ate a bit too much today, tomorrow I'll keep an eye on the amount of calories I eat.'

Watching her figure: The mum-of-one revealed that she has stopped counting calories

Dasha said that she also firmly believes in at-home workouts.

'You can totally make some gains with just training at home using the combination of body weight and alternative resistance exercises,' she wrote.

'I love booty bands and TRX,' the stunner added.

====== 466 ========

LOVE ISLAND'S ELLIE BROWN LEAVES LITTLE TO THE IMAGINATION AS SHE STRIPS DOWN TO HER UNDERWEAR

She's been linked to former star Joey Essex.

And Ellie Brown showed off her sexy side as she stripped down to her underwear in a series of racy pictures for her 2019 calendar.

The Love Island star, 20, was pictured showing off her enviable figure in the shots including a very sexy red lace bra and knickers.

Hot stuff: Ellie Brown looked incredible as she stripped down to her red underwear and matching heels in a series of racy pictures for her 2019 calendar

Racy in lace: Ellie, 20, showcased her toned limbs as she posed in a semi-sheer one piece and strappy heels with expertly applied make-up

She looked every inch the model as she posed in red stilettos and left her blonde locks tumbling over her shoulders.

While another shot showed off Ellie's toned limbs as she modelled in a sheer one piece and strappy heels with her make-up expertly applied.

The Geordie beauty proved she's a pro at working the camera as she was photographed lying on a bed of red roses clad in frilly white knickers and a white strapless bra.

Blonde bombshell: She proved she's a pro at working the camera as she was photographed lying on a bed of red roses clad in frilly white briefs and a white strapless bra

Her man? Ellie has been linked to former TOWIE star Joey Essex

And she set pulses racing as she looked seductive in another shot clad in a white vest top and lace briefs.

While another picture showed off Ellie's gym honed figure as she pulled a black one-piece over her pert derriere and accentuated her legs.

Her expertly applied makeup made her blue eyes pop with a hint of gold eyeshadow and dash of mascara paired with nude lipstick.

The blonde bombshell recently appeared to confirm her romance with Joey Essex, 28, after posting a picture of the pair locking lips online.

Leaving little to the imagination: The Geordie beauty set pulses racing as she looked seductive in another shot clad in a white vest top and lace underwear

Sharing a video online earlier this month, the pair locked lips after Ellie said: 'Absolutely smashed it! I'm very proud', in reference to a project he was working on.

The new romance comes a few months after Ellie was left heartbroken by her Love Island co-star Charlie Brake earlier this year.

Despite her romance with Joey, insiders claimed Ellie was also finding another TOWIE connection after she locked lips with Pete Wicks at the ITV gala at London's Royal Festival Hall last month.

Ellie Brown's 2019 Calendar available on Amazon

====== 467 ========

JONATHAN ROSS CLUTCHES E-CIGARETTE ON NIGHT OUT WITH DAVID WAILLIAMS

Just months after he was crowned Cigar Smoker Of The Year in 2015, Jonathan Ross made the transition to smoking electronic cigarettes and cigars.

And it seems his willpower remains, as the legendary TV host, 58, was seen holding on to an e-cigarette while hitting the town with pal David Walliams on Thursday for dinner at Scott's Restaurant in London's Mayfair.

The funnymen looked relaxed as they posed together in smart attire, while Jonathan clutched onto his smoking aid while David was sharp in pinstripes.

Boys' night out: Jonathan Ross, 58, held on to an e-cigarette during a night out with his comedian pal David Walliams at Scott's Restaurant in London's Mayfair on Thursday

Jonathan looked sleek for the meal as he sported head-to-toe black complete with a slimming black T-shirt and a stylish black pea coat.

His trademark floppy tresses fell loose around his face as he headed out following the meal and seemingly ready for a puff on the vape.

Meanwhile, David, 47, opted for a suave pinstripe suit in a deep blue, which he paired with a grey shirt and black and white polka dot tie.

While Jonathan didn't reveal the reason for quitting smoking, it came in the midst of a health kick which led to the comedian shedding an incredible two stone.

All black: Jonathan sported an all-black ensemble pairing a simple t-shirt with a winter blazer

Smoke-free: Jonathan, pictured in 2003, was previously a smoker yet seems to have overhauled his health and opted for an e-cigarette

Speaking on a special episode of Alan Carr's Chatty Man for Stand Up To Cancer he explained: 'I'm trying to keep the weight off. I'm on a diet...

'I'm off the sugars and I'm off the carbohydrates. I can eat b******s as long as they're not in breadcrumbs. It's easy. My wife wanted to go on an eating plan so you can actually maintain it, but also really enjoy food.'

Jonathan has been hosted Friday Night With Jonathan Ross from 2001 to 2011, before leaving the BBC to present the Jonathan Ross show on ITV.

Way back when: His trademark floppy tresses fell loose around his face as he headed out following the meal and seemingly ready for a puff on the vape (pictured in 2015)

During their night out, talk was possibly turned to David's love life amid recent rumours that he had rekindled his flame with Ashley James, three years after they were first romantically linked.

According to The Sun, Ashley was spotted cuddling up to the comedian at Jonathan's star-studded Halloween bash last month.

The pair were first said to be in a relationship in 2015, shortly after the BGT judge split from his ex-wife Lara Stone.

Hot stuff: During their night out, talk was possible turned to David's love life amid recent rumours that he had rekindled his flame with Ashley James

During the starry bash, held at host Jonathan's north London home, the model-cum-DJ sizzled in a racy harlequin-inspired ensemble.

Presenter David put on on a bold - and bald - display as Flash Gordon villain Ming the Merciless.

Shortly after the party, the Little Britain star showed his appreciation for Ashley's sexy costume by liking some of her Instagram snaps.

====== 468 ========

LOVE ISLAND'S ALEXANDRA CANE SHOWS OFF ENVIABLE CURVES IN BIKINI

She was one of the most naturally beautiful girls in the Love Island villa.

And Alexandra Cane was reminiscing about her summer of fun when she shared a throwback bikini snap on Wednesday, looking incredible in a white bandeau bikini.

The make-up artist, 27, snapped a cheeky bathroom mirror selfie, capturing her enviable curves and hourglass waist.

Wow: Love Island's Alexandra Cane was reminiscing about her summer of fun when she shared a throwback bikini snap on Wednesday, looking incredible in a white bandeau bikini

The white two-piece made the most of her deep tan, with the high cut of the briefs flattering her incredible physique.

Alexandra - who was unceremoniously dumped by Dr Alex on the ITV2 reality show - sported a full face of make-up and wore her dark locks down loose.

'Next holiday destination please... Bikini: @ezili_swim', she captioned the picture.

The reality star was inundated with comments from her Instagram followers, who branded her 'gorgeous' and 'body goals'.

Stepping out: Following her sizzling snap, Alexandra headed off to the House Of CB Influencer dinner at Sexy Fish in Mayfair

Dressed to impress: The stunner looked lovely in a figure-hugging yellow dress with a scoop neckline

Following her sizzling snap, Alexandra headed off to the House Of CB Influencer dinner at Sexy Fish in Mayfair.

The stunner looked lovely in a figure-hugging yellow dress with a scoop neckline.

She teamed her skintight dress with a pair of metallic, strappy heels and a coordinating, glitter embellished clutch.

Alexandra previously sparked rumours she was set to join the line up for this year's I'm A Celebrity, after saying she would open to a new challenge by jetting to Australia.

Dazzling: She teamed her skintight dress with a pair of metallic, strappy heels and a coordinating, glitter embellished clutch

Bikini shot: Earlier in the day, the make-up artist, 27, had snapped a cheeky bathroom mirror selfie, capturing her enviable curves and hourglass waist

The curvy star said she hasn't let the 'humiliating' experience of being on Love Island put her off reality television after expressing an interest to head into the Oz jungle in the future.

The boohoo ambassador confessed she loves a 'bit of danger' as well as claiming snakes and spiders don't bother her.

She told The Metro: 'I know I'm A Celeb don't like Love Island people but I'm determined!

'I will go on that show because I love everything they get involved in. Something where you're doing challenges or you're active or you have to rehearse.

'I love a bit of danger. I love snakes and I don't mind spiders so I think I'd be really good on the show. I'd win everyone meals in the camp. Lara Croft vibes!'

Moving on: The curvy star said she hasn't let the 'humiliating' experience of being on Love Island put her off reality television

Bouncing back: The star was unceremoniously dumped by Dr Alex on Love Island





====== 469 ========

LOVE ISLAND'S MEGAN BARTON-HANSON UNVEILS HER GLOSSY PEROXIDE HAIR EXTENSIONS IN SULTRY SNAP

She took her tresses up the colour chart as she unveiled her peroxide silver locks earlier this month.

And Megan Barton-Hanson has gone through another hair transformation as she debuted her extensions in a glamorous Instagram snap on Thursday.

The Love Island star, 24, who previously rocked a cropped 'do, looked every inch the siren as hairdresser Jay Birmingham styled her lengthy tresses into glossy waves.

New look: Megan Barton-Hanson has gone through another hair transformation as she debuted her extensions (L) in a glamorous Instagram snap on Thursday (pictured right on Wednesday)

Putting on a flirty display, the TV personality accentuated her curvaceous figure in a square-neck floral blouse and denim jeans.

The former glamour model complemented her striking features with pink-toned make-up, and wore nude gloss to ensure her lips were pouted to perfection.

On Wednesday, she and beau Wes Nelson were the picture of true romance as they attended the VIP Launch of Hyde Park's Winter Wonderland.

Wow-factor! The Love Island star, 24, who previously rocked a cropped 'do, looked every inch the siren as hairdresser Jay Birmingham styled her lengthy tresses into glossy waves

The smitten pair cracked radiant smiles as they cosied up on the red carpet, with their arms wrapped around one another.

Blonde bombshell Megan cut a chic figure in a leather jacket and furry collar, paired with a plaid scarf and skinny jeans.

Meanwhile, Wes, 20, looked casually cool in a white hoodie teamed with a navy blue quilted jacket.

Switching it up: The former glamour model took her tresses up the colour chart as she unveiled her peroxide silver locks earlier this month, going from blonde (R) to peroxide (L)

Megan is one of the biggest Love Island success stories, but has attracted criticism along the way after it emerged she had undergone a series of cosmetic procedures.

Earlier this month, she wrote a powerful open letter to her online bullies, revealing she received death threats over her surgeries, as part of the Glamour Magazine #BlendOutBullying campaign, designed to end online beauty trolling.

She set tongues wagging in the villa after she bedded Eyal Booker before finding true romance with Wes, with fuel added to the fire after it emerged she had previously worked as a stripper.

The defiant star said: 'When I was in the Love Island villa, I was imagining the negative reaction I’d receive on the outside for sleeping with two men, Eyal and Wes, in the space of a week.

Date night: On Wednesday, she and beau Wes Nelson were the picture of true romance as they attended the VIP Launch of Hyde Park's Winter Wonderland

'Women are so often criticised for being sexually free, so I was prepared for that. What I wasn't prepared for was the torrent of cruel comments about the way I look.

'A friend who was running my Instagram account at the time had to turn the comments off because of the level of horrible comments about the way I looked, my decision to have plastic surgery, and how I decided to change my body. I was getting death threats.'

'I changed the way I look to make me happy, and no one else. It’s my body, I earned that money, and if I want to spend it on surgery, then let me live.'

Megan said finding romance with Wes and having therapy for anxiety before the villa had helped with her self-esteem, rather than surgery.

She said: 'You literally fall in love with the person just for them. Wes likes me for me, and along with doing loads of therapy before Love Island for my anxiety, that’s what has really helped boost my confidence. Not the size of my boobs.

'That’s also my response when people ask about how I’m influencing young girls, who could potentially think "I want to look like Megan". I think it’s important to send the message to these girls that having procedures won’t make you feel different on the inside.

'At 19, when I had my first boob job and nose job, I thought I’d come out super confident, less introverted and shy.'

====== 470 ========

BAMBI NORTHWOOD-BLYTH SHOWCASES HER TRIM AND TONED FIGURE IN SKIMPY LINGERIE

Her slender, statuesque physique has earned her coveted spots on the covers of Elle, Harper's Bazaar and Grazia.

And Bambi Northwood-Blyth flaunted the model figure that made her famous in skimpy white lingerie this week.

The 28-year-old took to Instagram on Wednesday to share a selfie of herself showcasing underwear from a new brand Cuup.

Looking lean! Model Bambi Northwood-Blyth showcases her trim and toned figure in skimpy lingerie, on Wednesday

In the photo she angles her phone to capture her lean torso and a glimpse of her long legs.

She kept her cleavage concealed by her hand but was still able to show off the bra on her delicate frame.

The brunette beauty's saucy snap comes after she recently showed off in a skimpy lace-trimmed two-piece set.

'How many socks are in my bra?' The brunette beauty's saucy snap comes after she recently showed off in a skimpy lace-trimmed two-piece set. In the post she shared a good-natured joke about her physique

Showcasing her lithe, slender figure, Bambi looked happy and relaxed in the risque undergarments as she stood smiling with her arms folded.

Appearing not to take herself too seriously, Bambi captioned the snap with a little joke for her 247,000 followers.

'How many socks are in my bra?' she wrote, cheekily.

'My life was turned upside down': Bambi recently broke her silence for the first time about her split with husband, Ksubi founder Dan Single (right). Pictured in 2016

Meanwhile, Bambi recently broke her silence on her split from husband, Ksubi founder Dan Single, and the aftermath of his Paris balcony fall last year.

She denied that the relationship breakdown had anything to do with a controversial Go Fund Me page Dan set up shortly after the accident, telling Harper's Baazar back in August that she had 'found myself in the middle of the most frightening situation'

'Our plans drifted apart - the picture of what I saw in my future was very different to what he saw.'

The model added that while it hasn't been easy, she's in a much better place and is focusing on her studies, her modelling career and even scored a new acting gig on a yet to be revealed TV show.

====== 471 ========

JESS WRIGHT SHOWS OFF HER ENVIABLE ABS IN SKIMPY SWIMWEAR DURING DUBAI GETAWAY

She jetted to Dubai for an idyllic getaway on Tuesday.

And Jess Wright proved she was making the most of the winter sun, stripping off to a skimpy bikini to soak up the rays on the beach.

The 33-year-old TOWIE star flaunted every inch of her toned figure in a black and floral mismatched bikini, before slipping into a chic green two-piece.

Looking good: Jess Wright proved she was making the most of the winter sun, as she stripped off to a skimpy bikini to soak up the rays on the beach

When she wasn't lounging on the beach, Jess took the time to defend Cheryl from 'sickening' trolls amid the singer's musical comeback.

'People need to leave this woman alone!!! She's beautiful, courageous, so hot and a mother! Such haters give the girl some slack,' she wrote on Instagram.

Jess added: 'So quick to judge and slam it's sickening. I think her songs great (sic) and so is she, what's with the negativity so textbook change the record.'

Beach babe: The 33-year-old TOWIE star flaunted every inch of her toned figure in a black and floral mismatched bikini, before slipping into a chic green two-piece

Turning heads: Jess showed off her flat stomach in a green patterned Missoni-style bikini

The reality star's tirade comes after Cheryl was hit with criticism for her 'raunchy' X Factor comeback performance.

The 35-year-old initially received 15 complaints for her sultry dance moves, which divided her fans because her performance was aired before the 9pm watershed.

But by Wednesday at 2pm, the watchdog received a further 30 complaints, taking the total up to 45.

An Ofcom spokesperson told MailOnline: 'We have now received 45 complaints about the above which we are assessing against our broadcasting rules, before deciding whether or not to investigate.'

Stunning: When she wasn't lounging on the beach, Jess took the time to defend Cheryl from 'sickening' trolls amid the singer's musical comeback

Hitting back: 'People need to leave this woman alone!!! She's beautiful, courageous, so hot and a mother! Such haters give the girl some slack,' she wrote on Instagram

Cheryl took the news in her stride, taking to Instagram to share a photo of herself preparing for her upcoming performance at Hits Radio Live in Manchester on Sunday.

The snap, which she captioned: 'Rehearsals for manchester' showed her surrounded by her PA Lily England, her videographer Theo and her choreographer Elizabeth McKenna.

The former Girls Aloud star made a return to the ITV show where she once served as a judge to perform her comeback single Love Made Me Do It, on Sunday.

A number of viewers were upset by her racy stage antics during her pre-watershed appearance, which led to Cheryl launching a passionate defence of her controversial X Factor performance.

Rise: It comes after Ofcom complaints about Cheryl's raunchy X Factor performance on Sunday TREBLED overnight after she defended her raunchy routine in an impassioned Twitter post on Tuesday

====== 472 ========

LOVE ISLAND'S KENDALL RAE KNIGHT JOINS SAMIRA MIGHTY AT PEN LAUNCH

Love Island winner Jack Fincham was celebrating the launch of his new pen range on Tuesday evening.

And his former castmates Kendall Rae Knight and Samira Mighty were putting in appearances at the event, held at Mrs Fogg's in The City, London.

The reality stars dressed to impress for the occasion, with Kendall rocking faux leather while Samira looked beautiful in blue.

Stylish: Love Island beauties Kendall Rae Knight (pictured) and Samira Mighty were putting in appearances at Jack Fincham's pen launch on Tuesday, held at Mrs Fogg's in The City

Elegant: The reality stars dressed to impress for the occasion, with Kendall rocking faux leather while Samira (pictured) looked beautiful in blue

Kendall was embracing a sexy look in her black minidress, which included a studded belt cinching in her waist and silver zip detailing.

She kept the rest of her ensemble minimal, donning a pair of strappy stilettos and a matching shoulder bag.

The glamorous beauty - who has managed to nab countless Instagram endorsements and modelling gigs, despite being the first person evicted from the Love Island villa - was the picture of confidence as she posed at the bash.

Wow: Kendall was embracing a sexy look in her black minidress, which included a studded belt cinching in her waist and silver zip detailing

Chic: She kept the rest of her ensemble minimal, donning a pair of strappy stilettos and a matching shoulder bag

Success story: The glamorous beauty has managed to nab countless Instagram endorsements and modelling gigs, despite being the first person evicted from the Love Island villa

Samira, 23, exuded elegance in an off-the-shoulder mini dress with cinched waist detailing, which showcased her toned frame and lean legs.

She teamed her thigh-grazing, baby blue ensemble with a pair of dazzling silver heels and a glamorous faux fur shoulder bag.

Letting her impressive outfit do the talking, the West End performer opted to forgo any jewellery.

Looking good: Samira, 23, exuded elegance in an off-the-shoulder mini dress with cinched waist detailing, which showcased her toned frame and lean legs

Statement shoe: She teamed her thigh-grazing, baby blue ensemble with a pair of dazzling silver heels and a glamorous faux fur shoulder bag

Hitting the decks: Kendall and Sam Bird were seen trying their hand at DJing

Jack Fincham is going back to his stationery selling roots by launching his very own office essentials range.

The lovable Essex lad was supported by his girlfriend Dani Dyer at the event, proving their romance is stronger than ever.

The reality TV star posted a sweet post in support of her beau, telling her 3.4million followers: 'So proud of you on your pen launch. You amaze me everyday and I’m very lucky to have met you. love you.'

Show of support: Jack's supportive girlfriend Dani Dyer was naturally in attendance

Encouragement: The reality TV star posted a sweet post in support of her beau, telling her 3.4million followers: 'So proud of you on your pen launch. You amaze me everyday and I’m very lucky to have met you. love you.'

====== 473 ========

JOELY RICHARDSON WOWS IN RED AT PREMIERE OF HER FILM SURVIVING CHRISTMAS WITH THE RELATIVES

She was the picture of elegance as she attended the Evening Standard Theatre Awards in London on Sunday night.

And Joely Richardson kept the glamour going on Wednesday evening, when she attended the world premiere of her new movie Surviving Christmas With The Relatives at Vue West End in London's Leicester Square.

The 53-year-old actress was resplendent in a red flowing gown as she made her way down the red carpet at the star-studded unveiling of her latest screen project.

Glam: Joely Richardson attended the world premiere of her new movie Surviving Christmas With The Relatives, at Vue West End in London's Leicester Square on Wednesday evening

Her elegant dress, which featured caped sleeves and a short train, was teamed with patterned metallic heels, which perfectly matched her gold clutch bag.

Accessorising with a pair of large gold hoop earrings, she wore her golden locks in a sleek ponytail, while her beauty was highlighted with a warm palette of makeup.

Surviving Christmas With The Relatives also stars Julian Ovenden, James Fox, Gemma Whelan, Michael Landes, Sally Phillips, Patricia Hodge and Ronni Ancona.

Lady in red: The 53-year-old was resplendent in a red flowing gown as she made her way down the red carpet at the star-studded unveiling of her latest screen project

Beauty: Accessorising with a pair of large gold hoop earrings, she wore her golden locks in a sleek ponytail, while her beauty was highlighted with a warm palette of makeup

The festive comedy follows two sisters who take their families with them to celebrate Christmas at their late parents' rundown country home.

On Sunday, Joely Richardson wowed as she attended the Evening Standard Theatre Awards with her mother Vanessa Redgrave, 81, and her daughter, Daisy Bevan, 26.

Joely looked sensational in her floor-length frock with floral embroidery and glamorous ruffle detailing.

Golden girl: Her elegant dress, which featured caped sleeves and a short train, was teamed with patterned metallic heels, which perfectly matched her gold clutch bag

All eyes on me: The actress was the centre of attention as she posed for snapshots at the event

The actress commanded attention in the dazzling ensemble which featured dainty sparkling stars, echoing the glitz of the evening.

Letting the statement garment do all the talking, the English stage and screen star opted for minimal accessories, donning only sophisticated drop earrings for the occasion.

In contrast to her daughter's sparkly outfit, the talented stage, screen and television actress, Vanessa, sported a more reserved attire with a long black coat and matching dress.

Squad: She posed alongside her co-stars (L-R) Patricia Hodge, Gemma Whelan, Ronni Ancona and Michael Landes, as well as director James Dearden

Co-stars: They were also joined by Jonas Moore and Harvey Fisher (back row left-right), and Kitty Peterkin, Lochlan White and Riley White (front row left-right)

The Atonement star completed her look with a beautiful silver brooch and casual white slip-on pumps, while her locks were slicked back.

Daisy, daughter of film producer Tim Bevan, echoed her grandmother's vibe, wearing an elegant floor-length gown with an open-shoulder to showcase her slender physique.

The actress, who appears in TV series The Alienist, and model styled her dark locks in luscious curls, framing her pretty features, which sported smokey eye makeup and a pink lipstick.

Comedy: Their festive comedy follows two sisters who take their families with them to celebrate Christmas at their late parents' rundown country home

====== 474 ========

OLIVIA ATTWOOD AND BIKINI-CLAD MEGAN MCKENNA SEEN AMID ONGOING I'M A CELEBRITY RUMOURS

Megan McKenna was rumoured to be entering I'm A Celebrity due to her lengthy stay in Australia.

And after making a guest appearance on spin-off show Extra Camp, Megan joined her pal Olivia Attwood for a sunbathing session by their hotel pool on Tuesday.

The reality stars were topping up their tans in skimpy bikinis as rumours continued to swirl that Megan is entering the jungle.

Girls' getaway: Megan McKenna was joined by her pal Olivia Attwood for a sunbathing session by their hotel pool in Australia on Tuesday

Olivia looked incredible in a baby blue bikini, highlighting her ample cleavage in the string two-piece.

The Love Island beauty was sipping on a cocktail by the poolside, shielding her eyes behind large shades as she basked in the afternoon sunshine.

Megan was rocking a black bikini with knotted detailing at the bust, taking down the straps to maximise her tanning opportunities.

Looking good: Olivia looked incredible in a baby blue bikini, highlighting her ample cleavage in the string two-piece

Relaxing in style: Megan was rocking a black bikini with knotted detailing at the bust

Sunbathing: The star pulled down the straps to maximise her tanning opportunities

Relaxing getaway: The fiery-tempered TV personality was enjoying some time away

Sizzling: Olivia's incredible figure was on full display in the skimpy powder blue two-piece

She wore her hair pulled up in a top knot and went make-up free for her pool day.

Former TOWIE star Megan had sent her followers into meltdown as she shared several Instagram snaps documenting her flight as she arrived Down Under on Saturday ahead of the show's launch on Sunday.

Megan was reported to be a last minute addition to the popular jungle series, with producers 'desperate to find her a romance'.

Embracing a natural look: Megan wore her hair pulled up in a top knot and went make-up free for her pool day

Rumour has it: The former TOWIE star was reported to be a last minute addition to the popular jungle series, with producers 'desperate to find her a romance'

Best of friends: It was a much-needed break for the two stars after they both made appearances on Extra Camp

Superstars: Both Megan and Olivia had their incredible bikini bodies on full display

A source told the Daily Star on Sunday: 'It's looking promising. Producers are keen to get Megan on board.

'If it takes too long to get a deal signed she will be one of the late arrivals in camp. Let's face it – she will be sensational in the jungle shower.'

But Megan's appearance on the panel ends any speculation that she will be taking part in the show, as celebrities are usually sent into hiding long before the series begins.

Updating Instagram? Megan couldn't keep her phone out of her hand as she perched happily on the sunbed

Living it up: Olivia was sipping on a Mojito as she kicked back by the poolside

Spin-off show: But Megan's appearance on the Extra Camp panel ends any speculation that she will be taking part in the show

Catching up: The reality stars were enjoying a gossip and a catch up

====== 475 ========

VIDEO: ADORABLE MOMENT FIVE-MONTH-OLD PUPPY TAKES ITS FIRST BATH

Video: Adorable moment five-month-old puppy takes its first bath

This is the hilarious moment an adorable a five-month-old puppy clings on to his owner - as he gets his first BATH. Gabe Fullerton, 27, gave Rolo his first soak after noticing he was "manky" when they came back from...

====== 476 ========

VIDEO: JAMES EARL JONES VOICES MUFASA AGAIN IN THE TEASER FOR LION KING

Video: James Earl Jones voices Mufasa again in the teaser for Lion King

James Earl Jones lends his voice to Mufasa once again as the 1st teaser trailer for Disney's new live action adaptation of The Lion King drops. Also starring Donald Glover, Seth Rogan, John Oliver and Beyonce.

====== 477 ========

VIDEO: PEOPLE RUN AWAY IN TERROR DURING ALABAMA 'THANKSGIVING' SHOOTING

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 478 ========

VIDEO: APPLE'S ANIMATED HOLIDAY AD ASKS YOU TO 'SHARE YOUR GIFTS'

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 479 ========

VIDEO: CROWDS BRAVE THE COLD FOR A FREEZING MACY'S THANKSGIVING PARADE

Video: Crowds brave the cold for freezing Macy's Thanksgiving Parade

The balloons and the crowds braved the Thanksgiving cold to make their way through Manhattan for the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in one of the coldest parade days on record.

====== 480 ========

VIDEO: WOMAN STARTS OWN DANCE GROUP AFTER BEING TOLD SHE'S

Video: Woman starts own dance group after being told she's "too fat to dance"

Charity Holloway started her own dance group after being told she's "too fat to dance." The group consisting of all plus sized dancers has travelled internationally to dance.

====== 481 ========

VIDEO: ARNIE THE ARMADILLO LOVES BATHS AND PLAYING WITH TISSUE PAPER

Video: Arnie the armadillo loves baths and playing with tissue paper

Arnie the armadillo loves baths and playing with tissue paper. The clever animal was rescued as a baby and lives with his owner Brigette Brouillard.

====== 482 ========

VIDEO: PASSENGER ARRESTED IN ATLANTA AIRPORT AFTER 'ANTI-SEMITIC RANT'

Video: Passenger arrested in Atlanta airport after 'anti-Semitic rant'

A man was detained by police at Atlanta airport after he allegedly went on an anti-Semitic rant on a flight from Washington DC.

====== 483 ========

VIDEO: DOGS' HAPPY GREETING FOR THOSE WHO RESCUED THEM AFTER CAMP FIRE

Video: Dogs' happy greeting for those who rescued them after Camp Fire

A group in California have been working hard to save animals affected by the recent Camp Fire. So far they have rescued 17 dogs, 12 cats, 6 goats and a donkey. This video includes one moment where a canine pair...

====== 484 ========

VIDEO: ADORABLE MOMENT DOZENS OF GOLDEN RETRIEVERS RIDE MALL ESCALATOR

Video: Adorable moment dozens of golden retrievers ride mall escalator

Adorable moment a dozen cute golden retriever dogs wearing clothes are carried by their owners as they take a ride on a shopping mall escalator after the mall allowed dogs to visit for a one-off day.

====== 485 ========

VIDEO: BUS DRIVER TAKES SELFIE VIDEO WHILE DRIVING BUT ALL IS NOT AS IT SEEMS

Video: Bus driver takes selfie video while driving but all is not as it seems

This is the nerve-wrecking moment when a bus driver in Brazil films himself posing and taking his hands off the wheel of his moving vehicle but all is not as it seems.

====== 486 ========

VIDEO: POLICEMAN RESCUES BEAR CUB TRAPPED IN A DUMPSTER IN CALIFORNIA

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 487 ========

VIDEO: SCIENTISTS DISCOVER BABY SHARK INSIDE AN EGG ATTACHED TO A CORAL

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 488 ========

VIDEO: CCTV FOOTAGE CAPTURES MASSIVE WAREHOUSE FAIL

Video: CCTV footage captures massive warehouse fail

This CCTV footage shows a massive warehouse fail in which it is unclear whether the forklift driver suffered any major injuries. It is also unclear where it took place. A Twitter user alleged it happened in an Ikea...

====== 489 ========

VIDEO: SHOCKING MOMENT CAR SLAMS INTO LITTLE CAESARS KNOCKING CUSTOMER DOWN

Video: Shocking moment car slams into Little Caesars knocking customer down

42-year-old Vickie Doyle was charged with careless driving after slamming her car into fast food restaurant Little Caesars in Lake City, Florida, on Sunday afternoon.

====== 490 ========

VIDEO: BAPTISM GOES WRONG AS BABY FACEPLANTS IN THE WATER DURING CEREMONY

Video: Baptism goes wrong as baby faceplants in the water during ceremony

Baptism goes wrong as baby slips and faceplants in the water during the ceremony, but is quickly scooped up by the family.

====== 491 ========

VIDEO: TRUMP PARDONS PEAS THE TURKEY AT TRADITIONAL WHITE HOUSE EVENT

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 492 ========

VIDEO: BAREFOOT WATERSKIER USES HIS ONE-LEGGED FRIED AS A ROPE

Video: Barefoot waterskier uses his one-legged friend as a rope

Peculiar sport! Two daredevils attempt barefoot waterskiing while one of them tries using a human (who is missing a leg) as a rope.

====== 493 ========

VIDEO: WATTS SENTENCED TO LIFE IN PRISON AFTER MURDERING HIS FAMILY

Video: Wife's family slams Watts as he's convicted of killing her and kids

Christopher Watts has been given a life sentence without the possibility of parole after pleading guilty to murdering his pregnant wife Shanann, 34, and their two daughters, Celeste, 3, and Bella, 4, in Colorado.

====== 494 ========

VIDEO: TEXAS OFFICERS KILL SUSPECT THAT POINTED AIR GUN AT THEM

Video: Texas officers open fire on suspect after he brandishes air gun

Texas officers kill suspect that allegedly fired an air gun at them after high speed chase. Harris County Sheriff's Office released the dash cam footage from the October 31 shooting, which resulted in the death of...

====== 495 ========

VIDEO: 'DESSERT LIFE!' KHLOE KARDASHIAN & TRISTAN THOMPSON SHARE FEAST

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 496 ========

VIDEO: KHLOE KARDASHIAN SHARES THANKSGIVING BUFFET FOR THE FAMILY FEAST

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 497 ========

VIDEO: HOT MAMA! CARDI B FLAUNTS HER POST PREGNANCY BODY

Video: Hot mama! Cardi B flaunts her post pregnancy body

Hot mama! Cardi B flaunts her fit and fabulous four month post pregnancy body in sexy Instagram post. Cardi posed in her underwear while talking about tea that helped with her metabolism and appetite.

====== 498 ========

VIDEO: CHRIS PRATT & KATHERINE SCHWARZENEGGER SUPPORT PATRICK & CHRIS

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 499 ========

VIDEO: CHEERS TO 26 YEARS! MILEY CYRUS CELEBRATES HER BIRTHDAY

Video: Cheers to 26 years! Miley Cyrus celebrates her birthday

Cheers to 26 years! Miley Cyrus celebrates her birthday with fiance Liam Hemsworth and her family. Miley hilariously points out to her dad Billy Ray Cyrus that one of the candles isn't lit, requiring a take two!

====== 500 ========

VIDEO: THE KARDASHIAN SISTERS TEASE KYLIE WHILE SHE COOKS THEIR TURKEY

Video: The Kardashian sisters tease Kylie while she cooks their Turkey

The Kardashian sisters can be heard teasing Kylie Jenner while she cooks the Thanksgiving Turkey 'all by herself' which Kim and Kourtney swear she was taught how to do by them.

====== 501 ========

VIDEO: FUN THE SUN! DAVID GUETTA HITS THE BEACH WITH JESSICA LEDON

Video: Fun the sun! David Guetta hits the beach with Jessica Ledon

Fun the sun! David Guetta hits Miami beach with rumored fiance Jessica Ledon. Jessica is not only showing off her fabulous beach body in a cheeky burgundy bikini, but also her engagement ring!

====== 502 ========

VIDEO: SO CUTE! CHRISSY TEIGEN SHOWS MILES & GRANDMA PLAYING TOGETHER

0:33

Kelly Cuoco shares video of a baby seal she tried to save

====== 503 ========

SICK MYTHICAL LOOKING HARRY POTTER CREATURE REVEALED TO BE A RACCOON

An unusual hairless creature that bore a striking resemblance to House-elf from Harry Potter was revealed to be a severely ill raccoon that passed away on Wednesday.

The Back To Nature Wildlife Refuge in Orange County, Florida, shared several Facebook posts this week that showed the terrified animal after it was rescued Friday from underneath a car.

The wildlife rescue service said the raccoon was brought in for medical treatment on Saturday. The animal's health continued to decline from there, and it sadly died the day before Thanksgiving.

This unusual hairless creature found in Florida on Friday was revealed to be a severely ill raccoon that passed away on Wednesday

Back To Nature Wildlife Refuge in Orange County said she was likely battling alopecia or a genetic mutation she was born with

The rescue service said she was likely battling alopecia or a genetic mutation she was born with.

'We know you are all anxious to hear news about our sweet girl... and though we chose to remain hopeful and diligent with her care and condition, we sincerely regret to inform you that she passed away late last night, in her sleep,' the Facebook post said.

'We couldn’t be more grateful for the chance to try to save her. And though we couldn’t save her, we will choose not to look at her passing as a failure, but as a small success.

The animal's health continued to decline from there, and it sadly died the day before Thanksgiving

This tragic photo shows the hairless raccoon shortly before she passed away

'Her arrival to BTN’s doorsteps allowed us the opportunity to share her beauty with you all.

'She brought so much awareness to not only her condition, but to her species (often looked as a nuisance), and to the refuge and our mission. For that, we are truly grateful.'

The rescue service further thanked their followers for their support.

'Thank you all so much for your kind words, thoughts, prayers, healing energy and support to the organization. Have a happy and safe Thanksgiving.'

====== 504 ========

TOURISTS RISK THEIR LIVES POSING FOR SELFIES ON A TRAIN TRACK IN HANOI IN VIETNAM

Tourists looking for the perfect Instagram snap have been spotted posing for selfies - and even lying down - on the tracks of a working railway line.

In the heart of Hanoi's busy Old Quarter in Vietnam, the French-built tracks are lined with cafes serving hot coffee and cold beer - and are overrun with visitors.

Although the track is picturesque, it is also perilous as the tracks are still in use and most days visitors must scramble for safety as the daily train rumbles through the narrow streets.

A group of tourists wearing brightly coloured dresses pose on the tracks of a working train line in Hanoi's busy Old Quarter

Although the track is picturesque, it is also perilous as the tracks are still in use by a daily train that rumbles along the narrow street

Visitors scramble for safety when the train comes rolling along the tracks. When it does, everyone takes a snap of it

But for many, the thrill of dodging a speedy train is part of the appeal.

'It was amazing but scary in the same sense, a little bit overwhelming being so close to the train,' Australian tourist Michelle Richards told AFP.

The tracks were first built by former colonial rulers France, which used the railway to transport goods and people across Vietnam, then part of Indochina, along with Laos and Cambodia.

During the Vietnam War, parts of the railway were badly damaged by American bombs that rained down on the communist-ruled north.

Today the original metre-gauge tracks are still a mode of transport for tourists and travellers seeking a cheaper option.

The tracks were first built by former colonial rulers France, which used the railway to transport goods and people across Vietnam. Pictured is a visitor lying across the tracks in a quirky pose

Hemmed in by houses and cafes, the tracks offer a unique charm for budding travel photographers

But in the past few years, visitors to Hanoi have seized upon their photographic possibilities.

Hemmed in by houses and cafes, the tracks offer a unique charm for budding travel photographers and a business opportunity for makeshift cafe owners who have set up shop.

Hong Kong tourist Edward Tsim said: 'It's got a really weird charm. You've got flowers from the balcony coming down, you've got buildings which are very old and close to each other.

The original metre-gauge tracks are still a mode of transport for tourists and travellers seeking a cheaper option

'It was amazing but scary in the same sense, a little bit overwhelming being so close to the train,' Australian tourist Michelle Richards said

Hong Kong tourist Edward Tsim said: 'It's got a really weird charm. You've got flowers from the balcony coming down, you've got buildings which are very old and close to each other'

'You see people here living close to the train tracks.'

As the train rumbles into view, everyone clears the tracks and pulls their phones out to capture the scene.

'It felt like waiting for Christmas... and when it arrived, wow, it was something else,' British tourist Paul Hardiman said.

'Well worth the wait.'

====== 505 ========

STUNNING DRONE PICTURES SHOW SPECTACULAR SCENERY AS IT'S NEVER BEEN SEEN BEFORE

From birds taking flight to sweeping waterfalls - these amazing drone images showcase spectacular scenery from perspectives that have never been seen before.

The beguiling images appeared on photo-sharing site Dronestagram which is dedicated to drone photography.

From a waterfall in El Salvador's El Impossible National park to Sygiriya, the lion rock in Sri Lanka, these images show life on our planet in new and original ways.

Scroll down for video

Dronestagram, which launched in 2013, allows people to share geo-referenced aerial photos and videos.

Dronestagram founder Eric Dupin, who is based in Lyon, says drone photography 'depicts a new vision of the world, with stunning images taken from low altitude, near field'.

He says 'part of the appeal is that drones can capture images of places that are impossible to reach with another flying device'

From pictures of rice terraces in Bali to whale sharks swimming in the ocean, these images show places that would never otherwise be seen.

One envy-inspiring shot includes people sun-bathing on a pristine beach in Jamaica.

Capturing stunning photos lit with the perfect lighting is hard enough when you're holding the camera, let alone when you're controlling it remotely via a drone.

An increasing amount of holidaymakers have been using flying cameras to capture envy-inducing aerial photos while travelling.

The gadgets can be stowed away in a small bag and operated through a smart device, creating stunning eye-in-the-sky images from above.

The drones don't come cheap, costing anywhere from £40 for a basic version and up to £620 for devices that fly at speeds of 31mph and transmit video from miles away.

Earlier this year Dronestagram announced the winners of its drone photography contest.

In partnership with National Geographic, the social network has selected the best of 8,000 submissions in the categories of nature, urban and people.

The competition was judged by a panel of experts, including the Deputy Director of Photography at National Geographic.

Taking top honours in the nature category was an entry entitled 'Provence - Summer Trim by Jerome Courtial, depicting the lavender harvest in France.

Coming in second in the nature category is Infinite Road to Transylvania by Calin Stan, while Florian Ledoux's Ice Formation, photographed in East Greenland, took third.

====== 506 ========

OWNER TREATS HER HUSKY TO A MAKEOVER AND THE ADORABLE POOCH DOESN'T WANT IT TO END

An adorable husky enjoyed a makeover by his owner and didn't want his pamper session to end.

Hilarious footage has emerged of the cute pooch sitting beside his female owner on the couch who appears to be doing her own make-up.

But the husky wants in on the action and cries aloud when he's not getting attention from her.

Not to be outdone by its owner, the husky wants a make-up session and insists on getting one

The husky cries out loud when he's not getting attention from his owner and she has to succumb to his demands

The husky appears to be most relaxed as his owner applies eye make up to his lids

The owner proceeds to apply eye-make up on the husky and stops again - much to the dismay of the animal.

She then goes back to the husky and pretends to apply powder to the dog's snout as he rests his head on a cushion on her lap.

Siberian huskies are born pack dogs, and as such enjoy family life and get on well with other dogs. The Siberian husky's innate friendliness renders them indifferent watchdogs.

They are affectionate with everyone and are not known to be aggressive.

====== 507 ========

REAL DENY SERGIO RAMOS 'FAILED DRUGS TEST' AFTER FOOTBALL LEAKS CLAIM

Sergio Ramos has been accused of failing a drugs test after the 2017 Champions League final amid reports designed to cause serious embarrassment to UEFA.

The latest Football Leaks revelations make explosive claims about the Real Madrid and Spain captain, alleging he escaped sanction despite testing positive for a drug that has seen at least one other athlete receive a two-year ban. The club said Ramos had 'never breached' doping rules.

The computer hackers claim to have unearthed evidence that suggests Ramos tested positive for dexamethasone, which is only prohibited if UEFA are not informed of it prior to the doping test.

Football Leaks claim Sergio Ramos failed a drugs test after the 2017 Champions League final

Real Madrid have issued a firm rebuttal of the claims made in German newspaper Der Spiegel

A report in German publication Der Spiegel claims: 'The dexamethasone case has never before been made public and the file remains locked away at UEFA.

'No disciplinary action was taken, neither against the player nor against the team doctor from Real Madrid, despite all of the anomalies in the case.

'Indeed, the way in which UEFA swept the case under the rug shines a rather unflattering light on the anti-doping fight in top-level European football.'

Their statement claims the club captain 'never breached the anti-doping control regulations'

Der Spiegel claim UEFA accepted an 'apology' for the failed test, which came in the form of a written note from Ramos, with the defender claiming the club doctor had failed to declare his use of a corticosteroid that acts as an anti-inflammatory on his drugs test declaration form.

The doctor had noted Ramos received an injection the day before the final and claimed he committed a 'human error' by accidentally writing the wrong substance down on the form.

The presence of the then King of Spain, Juan Carlos I, who had come to congratulate Ramos in the doping area, was said to be a distraction. Real beat Juventus 4-1 in the final in Cardiff, in which Ramos played 90 minutes.

In a separate case after a game against Malaga in April this year, Der Spiegel report Ramos obstructed an anti-doping officer by showering before his drugs test, despite being warned that it was against the rules.

Der Spiegel reports that Ramos' urine sample contained traces of dexamethasone

A statement from Real Madrid said: 'The club wishes to express the following: '1. Sergio Ramos has never breached anti-doping regulations.

2. UEFA requested specific information and immediately closed the case referred to, as is customary in such instances, following tests carried out by experts from the World Anti-Doping Association (WADA) and UEFA itself.

3. In terms of the rest of the content published by the aforementioned publication, the club will not be making any comment, given the clearly insubstantial nature of the reports.'

Real Madrid skipper Ramos and former team-mate Cristiano Ronaldo are at centre of claims

REAL MADRID STATEMENT In relation to the information published by Der Spiegel referring to our captain Sergio Ramos, the club states the following: 1. Sergio Ramos has never breached the anti-doping control regulations. 2. UEFA requested specific information and immediately closed the case referred to, as is customary in such instances, following tests carried out by experts from the World Anti-Doping Association (WADA) and UEFA itself. 3. In terms of the rest of the content published by the aforementioned publication, the club will not be making any comment, given the clearly insubstantial nature of the reports.

UEFA issued a denial, saying in a statement it 'strongly and categorically refutes unfounded allegations it has covered up positive doping results.

'All UEFA doping control cases are conducted in full compliance with the World Anti-Doping Agency code. UEFA has informed both WADA and FIFA of all such cases as required by the WADA code and UEFA has provided all detailed information, expert reports and evidence during the handling of such cases.

'It must be underlined that both WADA and FIFA have the right to appeal any decision taken by UEFA on doping control matters to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS).

'However, neither WADA nor FIFA did lodge any such appeal to CAS and WADA itself has officially confirmed that everything was dealt with appropriately by UEFA and in accordance with the code.'

Earlier this year, the American heavyweight Eric Molina was suspended from boxing for two years when he tested positive for dexamethasone after losing to Anthony Joshua in December 2016.

====== 508 ========

WALLABIES STARS DROPPED FOR 'BRINGING THREE WOMEN INTO HOTEL ROOM’

Australia's rugby team were in turmoil on Friday night after two players were banned for bringing women back to their hotel.

Star backs Kurtley Beale and Adam Ashley-Cooper were turned in by their team-mates for inviting three women back to their room in Newport after the 9-6 defeat by Wales.

The Wallabies have also been hit by David Pocock's withdrawal from Saturday's Test against England after failing a fitness test on a neck strain.

Kurtley Beale and Adam Ashley-Cooper have not been selected for the clash against England

One of the women involved in the hotel incident was Ashley-Cooper's sister-in-law and the two others were her friends.

Wallaby team protocol prohibits players from inviting guests and a leadership group fronted by Michael Hooper broke the news to the coaching staff on Tuesday.

Head coach Michael Cheika failed in his attempt to keep the details in-house — before issuing a rallying call for his players to show 'genuine Aussie swagger' at Twickenham.

Michael Cheika had initially attributed Beale's omission from the squad to poor form

'I suppose our backs are to the wall, but the players are committed to going to the well more than they have been at any stage this season,' said Cheika. 'That's what we need to do and we'll love it.

'We're gonna cop a heap of grief but you've gotta love it. We have had an inconsistent season because we have often taken short cuts when we have needed to go harder.

'We needed to get tougher on the little things, whether jogging in the water at training or making sure our off-field is exactly how the team says.

'I know you'll be writing about this now but I'll be doing everything I can to make sure you are writing about an Australian victory on Saturday.'

Australia have lost eight from 12 Tests in 2018 which has also seen Israel Folau's homophobic comments and James Slipper's failed test for cocaine.

====== 509 ========

ENGLAND CRICKETER JONNY BAIRSTOW VENTS HIS FRUSTRATIONS AFTER MAKING STUNNING CENTURY

A few hours after he had marked his comeback Test with a superb century in Colombo, the emotions were still pouring out of Jonny Bairstow.

He dedicated his innings to two friends who had recently died, and suggested he had been unfairly criticised for injuring his ankle playing football.

Above all, he was 'proud' to have emerged from his latest challenge – making a success in England's troubled No 3 spot at the first opportunity.

Jonny Bairstow admitted his frustration at those who he perceives have 'castigated' him

England's new No 3 struck a magnificent century on his return after missing two Tests

Bairstow gave an honest interview after the day's play in Colombo on Friday

'It means a lot,' he said after his 110 helped the tourists to 312 for seven on the first day of the third Test. 'There are different things you go through when you get castigated about being injured doing X, Y and Z, when people don't actually see what's gone on.

'The bits behind the scenes, when you're doing your rehab and sleeping on an ice machine – people don't see it and yet they have an opinion on it.

'I'm proud as punch of myself and everything that I've done over the last few weeks, because that injury potentially should have kept me out for six to eight weeks, and I'm back in four weeks and playing in a Test match.'

Bairstow spoke of his sadness at the death earlier this month of Chris Allinson, a former Yorkshire Academy and England Under-19 cricketer, at the age of 28. He also mentioned a friend he had met in Sydney, who had died of a heart attack.

'There's a lot of people that have been in worse times than me: two people back home that I knew passed away these past couple of weeks, so it actually puts it in perspective. We're playing a game of cricket and people seem to have an opinion on that.'

Bairstow said he was proud of himself after putting in the hard yards while out of the side

The Yorkshireman put England on the front foot with his superb century in Colombo

There was clearly a lingering resentment at his failure to be picked for the second Test in Pallekele, despite being available for selection after recovering from his twisted ankle.

'You've got to deliver when you're asked to and you get left out of the side when you've not done too much wrong over the last couple of years,' he said. 'All of a sudden, you're asked to bat where you've not batted before, so you're learning on the job.

'You look at the challenges that have been put in front of me as a cricketer over a period of time and there's been quite a few. I'd like to hope I've come through most challenges along the way, and I'm desperately proud. This past couple of weeks has been really tough.'

Asked if some of his celebrations were aimed deliberately at the press box, Bairstow refused to play down the notion: 'You can look into any celebration how you want.'

====== 510 ========

MAURICIO POCHETTINO ADMITS TOTTENHAM HOTSPUR ARE SHORT OF SWAGGER

As Mauricio Pochettino ended his fourth season at Tottenham, still searching for his first trophy, the Argentine signed a new contract worth £8.5million a year.

At Chelsea, only Jose Mourinho has survived until a new campaign after failing to present a trophy to Roman Abramovich.

'I don't know,' chuckled Maurizio Sarri when asked if he could keep his job for four years without winning anything. 'I don't think so, but I don't know. It depends on the club and what the club want in this moment — if it's more important to win or more important to improve the players.'

Mauricio Pochettino concedes Tottenham are lacking belief away from White Hart Lane

Pochettino's favourite theme this season has been perception. Spurs are perceived to be out of form, while Chelsea are seen to be in the groove.

Eden Hazard is buzzing but Harry Kane looks worn out. Yet these London rivals nestle side by side in pursuit of the Premier League pace-setters.

Hazard has seven goals and Kane has six. Tottenham have played eight of their first 12 games away from home, yet if they win at Wembley they will climb above the visitors.

The two clubs are chasing the same things but in different ways and the two managers adopt opposing stances.

Tottenham will climb above Chelsea in the table with victory at Wembley on Saturday

Their new 62,062-capacity stadium at White Hart Lane is unlikely to be open until January

Sarri is happy to concede his side are not ready to be champions. 'There is one team above the others,' said the Chelsea manager. 'This is Manchester City. Then there is a very good team, Liverpool. And, for sure, they will be in the first four positions.'

His view is that Chelsea and Spurs are locked in a race with Manchester United and Arsenal for third.

Pochettino begs to differ and insists his team are in the shake-up despite delays to their stadium, an absence of signings and a cluster of muscle injuries among World Cup players.

'It is impossible to play well for 10 months,' said the Spurs boss. Yet he concedes things are not quite as they were.

Despite looking worn out Harry Kane has scored only one goal fewer than Eden Hazard

'Remember our last season at White Hart Lane? We were unbeaten in 10 months and people said we played so well and had the best team in the Premier League.

'It was because we created an amazing energy between the staff, players and fans and the belief was massive. We started games thinking we were going to win.

'Even against Man United or Chelsea, it didn't matter. The belief was bigger than everything. At the moment, that belief is not the same. We are waiting to move to the new stadium and start to build that same belief.'

The Champions League was an extra strain which did not trouble Arsenal and Chelsea, he said.

'Of course, the Champions League is more expensive from a mental point of view,' responded Sarri. 'It's difficult to play in Madrid against Real and be ready (again) after three days.

'On the other hand, in the Europa League you have to play on Thursday and next week we play on Thursday at 8pm and at 12 on Sunday, after 64 hours. Maybe from a mental point of view we have an advantage. But from a physical point of view, no.'

Maurizio Sarri admits he may not keep his job if he went four years without silverware

Chelsea are at home to PAOK on Thursday, assured of qualification for the knockout stage, then have a home game against Fulham.

Tottenham face three games which could define their season. On Wednesday they take on Inter Milan, when anything but a win will mean a Champions League exit.

Then it is Arsenal, although Pochettino hinted his team had shifted their gaze beyond their most local skirmish. 'Chelsea, Arsenal and West Ham are the biggest rivals,' he said.

'But in the last few years Chelsea was always on top and it's a good sign that our fans want more every season. When you want more you look at the teams above you. After 21 or 22 years, Arsenal are below us again and that changed a bit.'

Tottenham are facing a defining week in their season in both the league and in Europe

Chelsea are the benchmark in London football with five Premier League titles under Abramovich and they remain ambitious. N'Golo Kante's new five-year contract, thought to be worth £290,000 a week, was confirmed on Friday.

The next challenge is to tie down Hazard, while Spurs' Christian Eriksen, out of contract in 18 months, has admirers at the Bridge.

'I like Eriksen very much,' said Sarri. 'He is a very smart player, a very technical player, able to play in midfield and score eight or nine goals. But I don't want to talk about a Tottenham player.' Maybe not so much has changed.

====== 511 ========

JURGEN KLOPP READY TO PICK DANIEL STURRIDGE DESPITE FA BETTING CHARGE

Jurgen Klopp has vowed to keep Daniel Sturridge in his plans for selection and insisted an FA charge has not affected his performance in training.

The Liverpool striker is being investigated by the FA for alleged betting irregularities, dating back to January this year when he left Anfield on loan.

He was granted an extension on Tuesday to provide his answer to the charge but, as yet, does not have a date when he must report back.

Daniel Sturridge is in contention to feature for Liverpool at Watford on Saturday afternoon

Jurgen Klopp reported on Friday that Sturridge was 'in good shape, looks sharp, looks focused'

The FA could have applied for an interim suspension order had they believed Sturridge offered a threat to the game's integrity. The 29-year-old will be in Liverpool's squad for the trip to Watford.

Sturridge has enjoyed a smooth start to the season in terms of fitness and form and Klopp said: 'I know about the case.

'You don't see any influence on Daniel in training, so that's good. I don't know, I cannot say actually, anything about the case. It is difficult to get information about it but, in training, he is completely normal — in good shape, looks sharp, looks focused.

'Of course it is something you do not want to be involved in. But from my point of view, and until someone tells me something different and as long as he trains well, he is 100 per cent in contention.'

Manager Klopp pictured in training a day before Liverpool's pre-Watford press conference

Klopp, meanwhile, has expressed his sympathy for England Under-21 striker Dominic Solanke, who has not played a minute for Liverpool this season.

Solanke was outstanding on international duty and scored four goals in two games against Italy and Denmark for Aidy Boothroyd's squad.

'At the end of his career, Dom Solanke will not really know about these two or three years,' he said.

'He's only in the situation he is in because he is so good. That is why people already think about why he doesn't play.'

====== 512 ========

PEP GUARDIOLA SEEKS ANOTHER DEMOLITION JOB AS WEST HAM FEAR MANCHESTER CITY

Pep Guardiola's halo was slipping during the opening weeks of 2017. He became agitated and snappy at persistent suggestions that our league was different and he had to evolve tactically.

No easy games, they said. Forget about your La Liga and Bundesliga rollovers. Manchester City could not deal with the rough and tumble of the festive period. 'Tiki-taka' — a phrase the City manager visibly recoils at — will not cut it in the mud.

Fortunately, Guardiola had West Ham. They rolled over twice in a month at the London Stadium, losing 4-0 in the FA Cup and 5-0 in the Premier League.

Pep Guardiola will be looking for another thumping win against West Ham on Saturday

The Hammers have always been too open and too vulnerable to Guardiola's press. City have scored 13 goals in three away games at West Ham with the former Barcelona manager in charge.

The London Stadium's vast expanse has a homely feel for a team like City, who like to push their full backs wide and are devastating when given space in which to roam.

The odds on a West Ham win on Saturday are as long as 12/1 with the bookmakers.

City are without left back Benjamin Mendy, who is likely to miss three months with a knee injury. West Ham welcome long-term absentee Andy Carroll back into their squad.

'I think Pep is a pretty good manager,' said West Ham boss Manuel Pellegrini rather understatedly. 'We have a good relationship.'

Pellegrini was in charge at the Etihad in 2016 when it was announced Guardiola would take over at the end of the season. The pair did not speak before Guardiola took the reins, but the Catalan spent hours studying City under Pellegrini.

West Ham rolled over twice in a month against Manchester City at the London Stadium

'When you see the teams of Manuel, even a blind guy can recognise his style,' Guardiola said, clearly expecting West Ham to go hell-for-leather.

Pellegrini, a man wedded to his principles, confirmed as much. He namechecked Wolves as an example of how to attack City and said: 'We consider who we are playing but we are not going to play the game just to have a draw and not to concede too many goals.'

That must be music to Guardiola's ears. 'He did incredibly in Villarreal,' he said of Pellegrini.

'The way they played and created their own style was impressive. After he went to Real Madrid he did very well with 96 points but at Barcelona we did 99. At City he won the league and helped this club be where we are right now.'

Sergio Aguero pictured in training this week as he prepares for the West Ham game

Guardiola said on Friday no new signings will arrive in January and then hinted at the possibility that he could extend his stay beyond the end of his contract in 2021.

'I have protection here, my family is doing well in Manchester,' Guardiola said. 'I don't rule anything out in terms of my contract. It's going well and I'll maybe stay longer.'

You wonder how many goals City might eventually plunder at the London Stadium if Guardiola sticks around longer than anticipated.

====== 513 ========

MOURINHO ACCUSES MANCHESTER UNITED QUARTET OF LACKING 'PERSONALITY'

Jose Mourinho has said some of his young stars lacked the 'character' and 'personality' to play for Manchester United.

The manager named Luke Shaw, Anthony Martial, Marcus Rashford and Jesse Lingard as he claimed modern players mature slowly because they are over-protected.

His comments came to light the day after striker Romelu Lukaku told team-mates who have fallen out with Mourinho to 'deal with it — you're a grown-a** man'.

Manchester United defender Luke Shaw drives into the training ground on Friday morning

Jesse Lingard is seen heading into United's Aon Training Complex for a training session

United forward Marcus Rashford drives into training on Friday ahead of weekend clash

Anthony Martial is spotted arriving for training at United's Carrington training base on Friday

In a Spanish TV interview with former Barcelona star Hristo Stoichkov, Mourinho admitted some young players lack maturity.

'The people who surround the players, who protect them too much, give them too much care, too many excuses. Everyone has an excuse,' he said.

'People mature more slowly. For example, Luke Shaw, left back of the national team. He didn't know how to compete. He had great potential, yes, but didn't know how to compete.

'Martial, Lingard, Marcus Rashford — we're talking about great potential but who are missing a word I can't use but you like to use. They are missing a bit of that. Character, personality, as they say in Spain, bad blood, that natural aggression.'

Mourinho declined to discuss those comments on Friday but it has been apparent for some time that he feels his squad is not sufficiently battle-hardened to challenge the best in Europe or the Premier League.

Jose Mourinho has accused Shaw, Martial, Lingard and Rashford of lacking 'character'

Mourinho spoke about some players in interview with former Barca forward Hristo Stoichkov

United are eighth going into Saturday's home game against Crystal Palace although Mourinho believes he can lift them into the top four in the eight games left this year.

Martial, Lukaku, Paul Pogba and Marouane Fellaini are all available for Saturday despite withdrawing from international duty through injury. Shaw is suspended.

Mourinho said he was in Belgium during the international break where Lukaku was treated for a hamstring strain. He also spoke to Belgium coach Roberto about Lukaku's lack of goals for United.

Ander Herrera gives a thumbs up as he heads into United's training ground on Friday morning

United's Chris Smalling drives into training ahead of Crystal Palace fixture on Saturday

Lukaku has scored five in four games for Belgium this season but the last of his four for United came in mid-September.

Alexis Sanchez, United's other senior striker, has been tipped to leave in January but Mourinho played down the idea while saying: 'Can he do better? We can all do better.'

Mourinho also suggested that veteran keeper Iker Casillas is behind a Spanish media campaign against United's David de Gea in an effort to reclaim his place in the national team.

====== 514 ========

UNAI EMERY INSISTS ARSENAL ARE STILL BEHIND PREMIER LEAGUE RIVALS

Unai Emery handed his Arsenal players a reality check amid their 16-game unbeaten run on Friday, telling them they are still some way off the level of the Premier League's top four.

Arsenal are looking to go 17 without defeat when they travel to Bournemouth on Sunday but Emery believes he still has significant work to do, primarily in defence.

The Spaniard called a squad meeting to discuss their defensive frailties on Friday as he fears his side's tendency to concede chances will scupper their opportunity of a top-four finish.

Unai Emery handed his Arsenal players a reality check amid their 16-game unbeaten run

Arsenal currently sit fifth in the table, with Manchester City, Liverpool, Chelsea and Tottenham ahead of them.

On whether they are putting in the same performances as those above, Emery said: 'Sometimes yes, sometimes no. We need more.

'If we want to be in the top four, we need to improve things. We are improving things. The performances at the moment are not bad.

'But Sunday is another test. A big test. They are behind us. We need to win to be closer to the top four. We need more.

'We have the capacity to score with different players and this is very important for me. But in the balance we also need to be better in defensive moments.

'It is not easy. We are working and speaking to do more. We need more. We need to get better.'

Emery's Arsenal have conceded 15 goals so far this season - three times as many as some rivals

Emery's Arsenal have conceded 15 goals so far this season - three times as many as Pep Guardiola's City and Jurgen Klopp's Liverpool. They have been grinding out results on their unbeaten run nonetheless and Emery took offence at the suggestion that some supporters think they have faced easy opponents.

'Every match in the Premier League, we have to play for three points,' Emery said. 'It was the same three points against Liverpool, like another team.

'Yes, we are well. Sixteen matches, we've not lost, it's good. But also we have ambition and we want more and we need more. In the three last matches, we draw. It is not enough. We need more.'

Arsenal have been criticised for their slow starts, and they are yet to lead at half time

Arsenal have been criticised for their slow starts, with them yet to lead at half time. 'We can speak about statistics for a long time,' Emery added.

'We are scoring a lot. It's good? Yeah, it's perfect, 26 is a very big statistic in front of goal. But also we are conceding 15.

'We need more. Tactically, don't concede so many chances to the opposition, improve in scoring, find the possibility with different players. I want, for example, Alex Iwobi to do more or have more chances to score.'

====== 515 ========

NATHAN REDMOND ON FAMILY, FORM AND THAT TALK WITH PEP GUARDIOLA

Nathan Redmond pops his head around the door. Here he is, the life and soul. He says hello to Kerrie, receptionist at Southampton's training complex.

Not in a cursory kind of way, he stops and has a conversation. Then he walks on and the laughter seems to follow - but it hasn't always been like that.

Pep Guardiola saw it. Almost a year ago Raheem Sterling snatched victory for Manchester City against Southampton with a 96th-minute winner. Instead of celebrating with his jubilant squad, the animated Catalan made a beeline for an opponent.

Nathan Redmond has opened up on THAT discussion he had with Pep Guardiola last season

Redmond, a tricky, goal-scoring winger, had left an impression on Guardiola during his first year in England. A year on, he had watched a different player.

'Last season was one of the worst seasons of my life,' Redmond recalls, 'I was looking back at it and thinking, this is not me, this is not the sort of player that has gained me the reputation that even Pep Guardiola can say to me: "You are one of the best English players I've seen: why are you not taking players on like you did before?"'

Southampton and Redmond continued to stagnate under Mauricio Pellegrino. They didn't win for 12 games after defeat at the Etihad. Sometimes Redmond didn't make the match day squad and he trained with the Under 23s for two months. When Mark Hughes replaced Pellegrino in March, the scars had not healed.

'I remember one game, it was Chelsea at home. I was still in a bit of a rough position and I was sitting up in my box.

'I was just sitting there, watching the game with a frustrated face, thinking: "What am I doing? I should be out there, helping the boys get wins". Instead I'm sitting here in what feels like a world of trouble.

'I'd look at clips and think, "Who's that?" That's not what made me me. That's not what I did at Birmingham and at Norwich. 'I was no use to anybody on the pitch. I'd get the ball and as soon as I did, I'd pass it. That's not me.'

The Manchester City boss made a beeline for the winger after a match over his performance

In conversation, Redmond is earnest, intelligent and grounded. He is wise beyond his 24 years and when he fixes eye contact he doesn't let go. He frequently mentions his straight-talking mother Michelle.

His sister, Tilly, was stillborn in 2012 and the family's heartache has put the importance of football in perspective for Redmond.

'My mum was the strongest woman that I've ever known. She could take on anyone in my eyes. To see something like losing a child break a woman who I thought was unbreakable... then to me, makes me realise that football is just a game. And I'm blessed to be able to do it.

'But there's much bigger things that are more important. Like being alive. Waking up. Being thankful. Stuff like that, which people take for granted every single day.

'My mum knows me better than anybody. But I think I was in a place where I was making up excuses as to why I'm not doing or changing or being the person that I am on the pitch. My mum just said, "You are the only one that's caused this. It's nobody else".'

She's also responsible for his lack of tattoos, a rarity for a footballer: 'My mum said if I ever got a tattoo she would kill me. But my mum has tattoos, so it makes no sense!'

Redmond jokes his mother 'would kill me' if he was to get a tattoo, even though she has some

Southampton stayed up, but Redmond needed to reset. He spent some of the summer in Los Angeles with the likes of Daniel Sturridge, Nathaniel Chalobah, Kieran Gibbs and Danny Simpson.

'I understood that I had the worst season I've ever had in my career and the only way I was going to fix that was by working on my body and mind, getting them right ready to come back to pre-season and be like, "This is it".

'I wasn't thinking about anything that was going on in the UK apart from the World Cup, which was nice to watch while being out there.'

Redmond has been capped at every England level from Under 16, progressing through the age groups with much of the squad in Russia. Sterling and Jesse Lingard are friends.

Gareth Southgate has played a significant part in his development as a player and a person during his time managing the Under 21s and for the senior team. It was Southgate who handed Redmond his first and only cap against Germany last year.

He hasn't spoken to him for a while ('He's had his hands full'), but is not surprised by his success.

'When Gareth took over, the 21s was the massive change. Because people were like: "Oh, the 21s, they actually have some really good players. How are they doing?" And then the next thing you know the 21s were getting a lot more fans at games. We were enjoying playing and going away with England.

'There was a lot of things which Gareth changed in the 21s which I think he has implemented into the seniors. It's paying off. He fully deserves the credit he's getting at the moment.'

You wonder how he felt watching so many of his peers playing in Russia: 'I was proud of some of the players that I've played with there. I've been in the senior squad before, I know it's not out of reach but it's not something I'm thinking about right now. The main focus is about trying to get wins for this football club.'

Gareth Southgate handed Redmond his first and only cap against Germany last year

As team-mate Alex McCarthy has shown after earning his first England cap last week against the USA, playing for a smaller club is not a disadvantage to those with international ambitions.

'Alex has done unbelievably in the last six, seven, eight months since he came into the starting line-up.

'The pathway has always been there. It just means, whether you're 18 like Jadon Sancho, or if you're 27, 28 like Alex McCarthy, that you'll get your chance if you're performing well. It's refreshing for everybody.'

There is no disguising a frustrating season for Southampton. Points have been squandered against Leicester, Brighton and Watford. Yet despite scoring just eight goals, they are creating the fifth most chances in the division.

They travel to Fulham on Saturday for Claudio Ranieri's first game in charge. But Redmond wants to make it all about Southampton.

'The whole club could do with a good result. The boys could do with one because we've been working our backsides off to ensure we try to win games.'

Redmond credits Mark Hughes for his man-management skills, despite a disappointing start

With Hughes under-pressure after a disappointing start, Redmond credits the boss for his man-management skills.

'When the gaffer came here, he sat me down and said: "I understand you're not in a great place at the moment confidence-wise, we're going to try to slowly help you get it back".

'Under him now, whenever I get the ball I feel I'm in a much better place because he's there egging me on on the sidelines. 'He tells me not to be afraid to lose it in the final third. That's all you want in a manager, to have that confidence in you.'

And as that confidence returns, Redmond looks back to that conversation in Manchester.

'I'll never be able to thank him enough for the words that he said to me. Anybody can pat you on the back and tell you that you're good and you're doing well. But if you don't really believe in it then you're not really doing yourself justice.'

====== 516 ========

PETER CROUCH: JOE COLE WAS THE BEST KID I FACED AND DROGBA WAS SCARY

Peter Crouch is a columnist for Sportsmail

Joe Cole went first. At the start of the international break, he posted a message on social media to say the time had come for it all to end.

Then it was over to Didier Drogba. Late on Wednesday, he followed the example of his old Chelsea team-mate. Another post on social media, another statement to reveal that the journey, which had taken him to places that he could never have imagined, was over.

Normally at this stage of the campaign, we are talking about a raft of sackings but this season it feels like it has been all about retirements.

Michael Carrick stopped playing in the summer, John Terry and Rafael van der Vaart finished at the start of autumn. Robin van Persie will quit in May.

Now some of these announcements will not have come as a surprise. Cole had been playing out in the US with Tampa Bay Rowdies. Drogba was also in America, with Phoenix Rising. It was never going to be the case that they would come back to England.

Yet both of their statements struck a chord. Here were another two guys who I played either with or against admitting their bodies could no longer do what their brains wanted. I know how much that will have infuriated somebody like Joe.

Joe Cole announced his retirement from football during the international break

Didier Drogba followed, posting this picture on Instagram saying: '1989 where it all started!!'

Let me tell you about him. I would put Joe Cole alongside Steven Gerrard as the best player I saw when I was a kid.

We would come up against each other when I was at Tottenham and he was at West Ham and, as a teenager, he was a genius. The way he played football, with those flicks and tricks and vision, made it feel like he had arrived from another country.

We represented England from Under 18 level to the seniors and I remember one game when he set up six consecutive goals in a rout of Andorra.

I don't think people appreciate how good he was. In his pomp at Chelsea, he made the position on England's left side his own and the fact he won their Player of the Year award at a time when they were the country's dominant team shows the levels he reached.

Crouch played against Drogba numerous times during the Ivorian's spells in England

Drogba, meanwhile, was the kind of striker you could only admire. It seemed when I first arrived at Liverpool in 2005, and we had those big games against Chelsea, that he was practically unplayable. I used to watch him and was in awe of his power. He was scary when in full cry.

No player wants to retire and I need to make it clear that I am not going to follow suit anytime soon.

I love it at Stoke, I feel fit and my intention is to carry on until I am 40 — but seeing so many lads I know move on to the next chapter makes you realise it can't last for ever.

When I started out at Queens Park Rangers, my first proper club, I walked into a dressing room where there were characters such as Chris Kiwomya, Steve Morrow and Gavin Peacock and all would speak to me regularly.

Gavin was around 34 at the time he was my team-mate in 2000 and he knew the finishing line was in sight.

He used to say to me, 'Do this for as long as you can — it never gets any better'. When you are 19, the words don't sink in but the older you get, the more you appreciate them.

Crouch has no intention of calling it a day just yet and wants to play until he is 40

Even now, I will speak to Ledley King and Lee Hendrie, who are good friends. I know how much it hurt them to finish and they continue to tell me to keep at it, as what is on the other side of being a professional footballer is never as good.

They are right. I love my job. The buzz of coming into training and being with the group is the same as it was when I started out two decades ago.

The high of scoring a goal, in certain ways, is even better than it was before. If I ever start to lose enthusiasm that will be the time when I have to ask myself a question. We are not there yet, however, not by a long way. I still believe I can help this team and make an impact and I hope there will be more starts as the season progresses.

Equally, though, I am aware the day that comes to us all is peeking up on the horizon and both Joe Cole and Didier Drogba made me realise that during the inter-national break. But, if they don't mind, I have no wish to join them. Not just yet, anyway.

HAVING A GIRAFFE WITH HARRY IN THE JUNGLE

No prizes for guessing what has been the TV programme of choice in the Crouch household this week. Like many people, we have been glued to I'm A Celebrity . . . Get Me out of Here!

From a personal point of view, I've been closely following my old boss, Harry Redknapp, and a story he told around the camp fire during Wednesday night's episode had me roaring with laughter as it brought back a brilliant memory.

Harry was asked whether he had been to the jungle before and he said 'yes', then started to talk about a trip to South Africa with Portsmouth in 2008, when the squad was given the opportunity to go on an early-morning safari.

Crouch's old manager Harry Redknapp is appearing on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me out of Here!

Not everyone was keen to go but, as I had just moved back to the club from Liverpool, I thought it was a good chance for team bonding. Halfway around the trail, nature called and we asked our guide whether he could stop the Jeep.

A few of the lads went behind a bush and, as they did, I spotted my chance. When they emerged — with the help of a few branches — I pretended to be a baby giraffe, which caused various kinds of reaction, from shock to laughter!

It was a brilliant trip and I'm sure if Harry is given the opportunity, he will have his camp-mates entertained with some of his stories. I'll certainly be voting for him to stay the duration.

Redknapp has been winning over more fans on the programme with his amusing storytelling

SPURS MUST ROCK UP... OR ROLL OUT!

Only one thing comes to mind when I think of Tottenham v Inter Milan. It is, of course, the night Gareth Bale turned Maicon inside out in 2010 and we won 3-1. White Hart Lane shook as we demolished the Champions League holders and it felt like we had arrived.

What Mauricio Pochettino would give to see his side do something similar on Wednesday. Tottenham's fate in this year's competition is precarious and anything other than a win will eliminate them from Group B.

The Champions League is critical for Spurs. The revenue it brings is, of course, crucial given the club are rebuilding White Hart Lane and to lose that extra income would be an enormous blow.

Pride would also be dented because there is prestige attached to being in the best tournament. But, more than anything, Tottenham need to be in the Champions League to enhance their prospects of finishing in the top four come May.

Dropping into the Europa League would severely compromise their hopes of achieving that aim due to the increased fixture demands.

If they don't progress in the Champions League, they would probably be better off out of Europe altogether as the Thursday-Sunday rota of the Europa League would physically and mentally drain a squad that is short of options. For that reason, Wembley needs to rock on Wednesday.

Crouch played alongside Gareth Bale at Tottenham when they put Inter Milan to the sword

Every so often, I see a game that makes me jealous and that was the case last Sunday.

Wembley looked and sounded incredible for England's Nations League decider with Croatia. As the players celebrated with the supporters at the end, I'd have done anything to be involved.

I still don't fully understand how the Nations League works but what I do know is that this England squad are going places. The way they fought back against Croatia to reach the finals next June was magnificent.

There is talk of Gareth Southgate being a target for top Premier League clubs. He has stamped himself as a manager who is not afraid to make big decisions — you could even say some of his calls are ruthless — and his reputation has blossomed.

Gareth Southgate appears to have created a club mentality at international level with England

But why would he want to walk away from this? In the past year, he has done something that I thought would be impossible at international level by creating a proper club environment.

You don't come from behind like that if the team are not hungry and unified and the way the players engulfed Harry Kane when he hit the winner showed how together they are. To be honest, our 2006 World Cup squad did not have that bond.

These boys love playing for England. You see how much it means to them and that, in turn, has got the nation behind them.

There was a time when watching England was difficult — you knew 90 minutes of toil would follow. Now I can't wait to flick on the television.

This year has been memorable for 'Club England' and now I hope the next two years are even more fruitful.

====== 517 ========

POWER PORTFOLIO - TRACK YOUR INVESTMENTS

Power Portfolio - track your investments or buy virtual shares to try to beat the market

LOGIN

So that we can redirect you to the correct page please choose one of the following:

1. I'm NOT logged in to This is Money

2. I AM logged in to This is Money

3. Don't have a portfolio

4. Forgotten your password?

>> Please visit the Password Reset page

Please note: The reset email you will receive will be from Daily Mail and once your new password is activated you will initially be directed to the Daily Mail home page. Simply click on the Money tab to access your portfolio.

TRACK YOUR WEALTH

Welcome to Power Portfolio

This is Money's new portfolio is big, bright and simple - the best way for novices and experienced investors alike to keep track of your shareholdings.

Use it to track your real investment or to play the stock market as if for real.

You can add shares AND funds and a range of other investments to view your total wealth over time. And once you've set it up there are a range of extra features to help keep tabs on the companies you're investing in

It's free.

Trading places: Your stocks are listed alphabetically with prices and total worth updating throughout the day.

Key features

Easy to use Multiple portfolios Updates every few minutes All London-listed shares Government stocks All UK-based funds (unit trusts & Oeics) Performance tables Alternative investments: wine, property, art

Where in the world: See at a glance where your investments are held and in what sectors.

Special features

Once your portfolio is set up you can access the following information related to the the companies you have included.

- Broker views: see what the brokers are saying about your investments;

- News: get the latest news about the companies in your portfolio;

- Heatmaps: see the day's risers and fallers at a glance

- News alerts: breaking news by email about the companies you choose;

- Allocation charts: get a breakdown of your assets in handy pie charts;

- Performance charts: measure your portfolio over time as chart;

- Company research: access a wide range of vital company stats and fundamentals

Note: When you click on a company name you will be able to access the full range of market-wide data plus free share price and news alerts for all UK companies.

FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS

How do I to add securities to the portfolio?

To add items, first select the type of investment from the drop down menu.

- Cash equity for shares

- Oeic or unit trust

- And so on.



This activates the second box.

Now start typing the name of the company or fund.

Select from the results

You must add number of shares

You can add fees and commission (optional)

And you're away.

How does portfolio handle foreign stocks?

This is Money is a UK-based services. However, some funds and shares are priced in foreign currencies. Where that is the case, it should display the relevant symbol - eg. €. But the price is not converted into sterling in the portfolio. You can either enter foreign stocks into a separate portfolio

or...



If you multiply the number of shares by the exchange rate you will trick the total value into, say, euros. Instead of adding 1,000 shares, add (current exchange rate eg. £1 = €1.18) 1000 x 1.18 = 1180. So your 1000 shares will show a total worth of 1180 x 18 = £21.24

What prices are displayed in the portfolio?

Prices displayed in the portfolio are bid (sell) prices, which was chosen to better reflect the true value of your holdings. Bid prices are also used in the profit/loss calculations.

What a performance: Use the tabs to see vital data, broker views, prices, director dealing - and more - for the companies listed in your portfolio.

How is the profit / loss calculated?

Commission and stamp duty charges are now deducted from profit/loss figure to give a better reflection of the real world.



How do I log out?

Either close the browser or, better, click the log out at the top of the portfolio screen.



What do I do when a company changes its name?

You'll need to remove the old company and add the new one as though it was a completely new company. There isn't an automated update for this.

How do I delete a portfolio?

Click the little 'edit' link next to the portfolio name at the top of the screen and this will take you to a page where you can delete or rename a portfolio.



Can I add companies I don't hold shares in to the portfolio?

You can add whatever you like. However, you must add a number of holdings. Choose 1 or even 0.001 - that way the value will have an insignificant bearing on the overall value of your holdings.



Can you edit my portfolio for me?

No sorry, we can't do that and nor should you want us to. Obviously, in extreme special cases we can make an exception.

How to I edit/see the history of shares I bought?

Alongside each entry is a little edit button (it looks like a pencil). Click on that to see your transaction history.

Can you explain how the valuations in the portfolio are derived?

Profit / loss = asset value - asset cost

Asset cost = cost of all currently held assets (average prices apply*)

Asset value = current market (or other) value of all currently held assets

Total value = asset value + net cash

% change = profit / asset cost * 100 (i.e. profit/loss expressed as a percentage of asset cost)

Net cash = cash - asset cost

* Where there are multiple buys and sells of a share at different purchase prices, we work out the average price of all the purchases and multiply that by your current holding to calculate Asset cost.





How do the performance chart at the bottom of the portfolio work?

Performance is calculated using Asset value.

When a new asset is added to the portfolio the change is calculated as New asset value vs the Old asset value.

Example: (excluding the share price changes over the period)

31 May 2012 empty portfolio

1 June 2012: Buy 100 Vodafone Shares for £100

2 June 2012: Buy 1000 Barclays Shares for £1,0002 June 2012: Asset change vs Yesterday is £1,000 - £100 = £900, percentage change is £900/£100 x 100 = 900%

Note: The % change in the Totals is a comparison between the current Asset Cost and Asset Value i.e. The Profit/Loss as a percentage.

Behind the scenes: See a list of director buys and sells, company results and major events in the corporate calendar for the companies listed in your portfolio.

How does historic performance work and why are the figures sometimes way off?

The historic performance is a very simple tool trying to tackle a rather complex conundrum.

It works off the dates you input into the portfolio and it only works off dates within the previous 12 months and it works using mid prices rather than the bid prices that calculate the rest of the portfolio.

There can be discrepancies from what you may expect and is to be used as a guide only. You can change all your purchase dates to within the last 12 months to make it more accurate.

Why can’t I find funds using the industry standard MEX codes?

We don’t use Mex codes but a proprietary system, Citicode, from our fund data provider, Trustnet.

Funds are listed in the results box when you start typing its name in the portfolio – if you have first selected Unit trust or Oeic.

But if you need a Citicode, you can usually find it by searching (Google) for your fund name and adding trustnet to your search. The Citicode is listed on the fund's factsheet.

How do I change my email address?

If you change your email address you need to update the details yourself. Login with your old address, wait a few seconds for the Login link (top right of the screen) to change to My profile | Logout. Then click on My profile and enter your new address and follow the instructions.

And if all else fails...

Send me as much detail, including relevant screenshots via: editor@thisismoney.co.uk

====== 518 ========

BEST SAVINGS RATES: GENERAL SAVINGS - INTERNET AND BRANCH

> Compare peer-to-peer lending: Check top rates on offer to investors

> Top DIY investing platforms: Best and cheapest places to invest

* Note: From April 2018, tax conversions will apply only to taxpayers living in England, Wales and Northern Ireland. Scottish taxpayers are subject to different income tax rates after this date.

Dear Reader,

These tables are unique on the web. They are independent and providers are not forced to pay to appear, which is typically the case at big comparison sites.

Independent savings expert: Sylvia Morris

They are completely unbiased - we simply show the best rates around and don't do 'featured deals'.

We've gone a step further, too. To feature in the best buys on variable rate accounts in our savings tables, an account must give you easy access to your money and come with no hidden catches.

In the past we have refused to include accounts where the rate is boosted by a short-term bonus or those with over-restrictive conditions so you only earn the advertised rate if you make three or less withdrawals a year.

But with interest rates so low, most of today's best deals have some sort of clause built in, whether that's a bonus or a restriction on withdrawals.

For that reason, we've included decent bonuses as long as they last for at least 12 months. This is to avoid you having to switch your account too often when short-term bonuses run out.

If there is a restriction on withdrawals we have made this clear in the notes on each account.

We also ignore old-style 'notice' accounts where the bank or building society can demand you give up to six months' notice that you want to take our money out while it can change the rate at any time without warning.

All banks and building societies are registered with the Financial Conduct Authority and signed up to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme, either directly (protecting up to £85,000) or via its passport scheme (where the compensation limit depends on the bank's home country. In Europe it is €100,000).

If you have a question about the tables email sy.morris@dailymail.co.uk and editor@thisismoney.co.uk

Sylvia Morris

This is Money savings tables expert





====== 519 ========

COMPARE THE MARKET - THE BEST DEALS FOR YOUR MONEY

Ever spotted the unusual row of period townhouses beside the A4 when entering West London? We reveal their stunning interiors as one becomes available to buy for £2m

====== 520 ========

FINANCIAL CALCULATORS - WORK OUT HOW TO MAKE MONEY AND SAVE MONEY

Ever spotted the unusual row of period townhouses beside the A4 when entering West London? We reveal their stunning interiors as one becomes available to buy for £2m

====== 521 ========

THE UK'S MOST LUCRATIVE PLACES TO RENT OUT A PARKING SPACE

If you're looking to make some extra cash, you might not need to look any further than your own driveway.

Those with a spare parking space could make up to a staggering £1,539 in a year, just by renting out their driveway, according to new research from Direct Line Car Insurance.

It revealed that those in Sheffield and London are in luck, as homeowners in the two cities could bag £1,539 and £1,525, respectively, each year, by letting out their driveway to those in need of a parking space.

Demand for parking spaces is largely coming during the week from those eager to find cheap and easy places to park close to work and train stations, while at the weekend and in evenings parking is popular near football stadiums, sports grounds and big music venues.

Map highlighting the top 10 cities that take home the most money from renting their driveway

On average in the UK, driveway owners letting out their space take home £1,090 a year, adding almost 4 per cent to the UK's average earnings.

The report even claimed that currently, 3.5 million people in the UK are renting out their parking space, collectively earning people £3.8 billion.

Often used by commuters who struggle to find a parking space, renting out your driveway has grown in popularity over the past couple of years.

One reason for the increase in users is the growing acceptance of the sharing economy. Huge companies, like AirBnB and Uber, have proven that customers are happy to share in order to save money.

Most websites will charge a fee when renting out a driveway but this still leaves driveway owners with a reasonable sum at the end of the month.

Sheffield locals earn the most at, on average, £160 a month, providing them with an additional 5.7 per cent income.

Londoners can also charge a substantial sum, receiving just a little less at £158.90 a month, giving them an extra 3.5 per cent towards their income.

Leeds completes the top three with average earnings of £142 a month.

Steve Barrett, head of car insurance at Direct Line, commented: 'With the cost of parking so high and spaces in such short supply, it is not surprising that so many people are discovering alternative options.

REGIONAL BREAKDOWN OF DRIVEWAY PARKING FEES City Average monthly fee Average annual fee Take home income (after agency fee) Average income Additional income provided by renting space Sheffield £160.33 £1,924 £1,539 £25,330 5.7% London £158.90 £1,907 £1,525 £40,726 3.5% Leeds £142.00 £1,704 £1,363 £27,423 4.7% Manchester £135.80 £1,630 £1,304 £25,604 4.8% Birmingham £131.45 £1,577 £1,262 £25,257 4.8% Belfast £118.00 £1,416 £1,133 £24,943 4.3% Glasgow £115.90 £1,391 £1,113 £25,930 4.1% Nottingham £115.45 £1,385 £1,108 £23,340 4.5% Plymouth £112.50 £1,350 £1,080 £23,570 4.4% Edinburgh £112.39 £1,349 £1,079 £34,421 3.0% Liverpool £110.35 £1,324 £1,059 £25,165 4.0% Bristol £98.35 £1,180 £944 £27,082 3.4% Brighton £91.88 £1,103 £882 £29,938 2.9% Norwich £87.86 £1,054 £843 £24,434 3.3% Newcastle £87.55 £1,051 £840 £26,703 3.1% Southampton £82.80 £994 £795 £24,367 3.2% Cardiff £69.36 £832 £666 £27,784 2.3% United Kingdom £113.58 £1,363 £1,090 £29,009 3.6% Source: Direct Line Car Insurance

'Given that the sharing economy has already changed the travel and hospitality industries, it is inevitable that motorists and homeowners are looking for mutually beneficial solutions.

'For homeowners, renting their driveway to others is a great way to supplement their income and for drivers, it's a cheaper alternative to increasingly unaffordable town and city centre car parks.

'It also provides people with a guaranteed parking space and frees up vital spaces in high demand car parks.'

Despite some local councils claiming that renting out a driveway comes under a 'change of use' of your property, which allows them to charge a £385 planning application fee, the government has said that it is not the case.

Guidance published by the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government says that planning permission is not required to rent out parking spaces.

The only time it may be a problem is if there is substantive planning concerns such as it causing a public nuisances to neighbours or there are conditions which restrict the space being rented out.

====== 522 ========

VAUXHALL TO SLASH NEARLY 250 JOBS BUT INSISTS THE CUTS ARE NOT LINKED TO BREXIT

Motor giant Vauxhall is swinging the axe at its main car plant in Cheshire as it fires the starting gun on a restructuring plan.

The carmaker said there will be a 'phased reduction' of 241 jobs at the Ellesmere Port factory, made through voluntary redundancies over the next year.

Vauxhall insisted that the job cuts are not Brexit related. Instead, it put it down 'difficult' industry conditions.

Vauxhall is planning 241 job cuts at its Ellesmere Port plant in Cheshire (Peter Byrne/PA)

'This restructuring is critical to ensure that the Ellesmere Port plant develops its competitiveness during this difficult time within the industry,' the firm said in a statement.

The firm's overhaul includes aligning 'headcount and production costs' and introducing new technologies.

The company confirmed that it will endeavour to execute the restructure without resorting to compulsory redundancies.

It added that there may be an opportunity for employees to transfer to its manufacturing plant in Luton.

The company has entered a 45-day consultation with unions.

According to Unite, this latest round of job cuts is the fourth at the plant in recent years, resulting in a reduction of the workforce of almost 60 per cent to 900.

Unite officer Mick Chalmers said the job losses will come as a 'sickening blow' to employees and their families.

'Vauxhall's Ellesmere Port workers have made huge sacrifices and worked hard to ensure the carmaker recently returned to profit for the first time in two decades.

'Further job losses will come as a sickening blow for them and their families in the run up to Christmas and will further heighten the anger over the uncertainty surrounding the future of the plant,' he thundered.

The Ellesmere Port plant is where Vauxhall currently produces the Astra model

Unions have been awaiting an announcement on the future of the plant, which builds the Astra model.

Unite warned Vauxhall's French owners PSA against 'death by a thousand cuts', calling for new models to be built at Ellesmere Port.

Rebecca Long Bailey, shadow business secretary, said: 'This is devastating news for workers and their families in the run-up to Christmas and is especially shocking considering the carmaker's recent return to profit.

'Bosses must now urgently meet with unions to ensure that there are no compulsory redundancies and work to provide long-term certainty to workers and their families during this difficult time.'

====== 523 ========

OUTSOURCER INTERSERVE IN HUNT FOR EMERGENCY CASH INJECTION AS IT STRUGGLES UNDER MOUNTAIN OF DEBT

Struggling government contractor Interserve has launched a search for fresh investment as it seeks to urgently tackle spiralling debts.

The firm, whose share price has tumbled in recent years, admitted that it is working with advisers to explore ways of bringing cash in to put it on a more secure financial footing.

Shares in the firm have fallen another 6.5 per cent today to 32.7p.

Troubled outsourcer Interserve has blamed the blockade against Qatar for some of its woes

Interserve said its debt level will be between £625million and £650million by the end of the financial year - higher than previous forecasts of £575million to £600million.

But the firm promised to deliver a detailed deleveraging plan in early 2019 and has begun the process of hiving off non-core assets.

'The board is working with its advisers to look at all options to deliver the optimum capital structure for the business to support its long-term, sustainable development,' Interserve said.

'This process includes options to bring new capital into the business and, as previously announced, progressing the disposal of non-core businesses.'

Interserve also insisted that its 'Fit for Growth' transformation programme is on track, and signalled there will be a 'significant' improvement in full-year profit.

In a third-quarter trading update, the firm said the strategy will deliver £15million in cost savings in 2018.

Boss Debbie White said: 'The board remains focused on positioning the group for long-term, sustainable success. This means continuing the operational progress we are making to put legacy issues behind us.'

Interserve boss Debbie White (above) said the firm is putting its legacy issues behind it

Concerns about Interserve's finances have raised speculation that the group could go the way of rival Carillion, which collapsed into liquidation in January.

In August, Interserve said it swung to a £6million half-year loss, down from profits of £24.6million a year earlier, as it scrambled to reduce costs.



'Debbie White and her team are clearly doing their best to steady the ship at Interserve,' said AJ Bell investment director Russ Mould, 'but the admission that net debt will end the year higher than expected means the company has yet to reassure shareholders and potential investors about the key issues that face it.'

Mould pointed out that Interserve's shares are at their lowest level since the mid-1980s.

He adds: 'The lower the share price goes, the more shares Interserve will have to issue, and the more dilution shareholders may suffer, should management decide that an equity raising is required to buffer the company's finances.'

====== 524 ========

RICHARD BRANSON’S VIRGIN ATLANTIC IN TAKEOVER TALKS WITH REGIONAL AIRLINE FLYBE

Virgin Atlantic is in talks on a takeover of struggling budget airline Flybe.

Virgin, part owned by Sir Richard Branson, is thought to be vying with Stobart to buy Flybe and is interested in its take-off and landing slots at London's Heathrow Airport.

Flybe shares shot up 70 per cent today at 16.4p in response to the news.

The regional airline put itself up for sale last week after warning over profits earlier in the year.

Richard Branson's Virgin Atlantic is in talks on a takeover of regional airline Flybe.

The Exeter-based carrier is battling challenging conditions in the airline industry and has been hit with falling demand and a £29million hit from rising fuel costs and the weak pound.

Flybe has 78 planes operating from smaller airports including London City, Southampton and Norwich, and flies to destinations across the UK and Europe. It carries around eight million passengers a year.

Virgin Atlantic’s plan would bring customers into its long-haul network via Flybe's domestic routes, according to reports.

Trade unions have already raised concerns over the impact of a Flybe's sale on the carrier's 2,300 employees.

Flybe has 78 planes operating from smaller airports around the UK including London City, Southampton and Norwich.

In results announced last week it reported statutory pre-tax profits for the six months to September 30 more than halved to £7.4 million from £16.1 million a year earlier.

Revenues fell 10 per cent, or 2.4 per cent on an underlying basis, to £409.2 million after it cut capacity by 9 per cent.





====== 525 ========

THE BRUTAL FALL OF CARLOS GHOSN: FROM PARTIES IN VERSAILLES TO A TOKYO JAIL

His is one of the most spectacular descents since Icarus. Until this week, Carlos Ghosn was the undisputed titan of the motor industry at the head of not one but three international car giants, Japan’s Nissan and Mitsubishi along with Renault of France.

Now, his stellar 40-year career is in shreds after he was arrested in Japan on accusations of financial misconduct.

To the surprise of no-one, he was ousted yesterday as chairman of Nissan.

His supporters suggest Ghosn is the victim of a hatchet job at the hands of executives who thought him over-mighty and opposed plans to merge the Japanese company with Renault.

Carlos Ghosn and second wife Carole attend a party at Versailles, was inspired by Sofia Coppola film Marie Antoinette and featured actors in 18th century costume

Questions are being asked as to whether it is credible that he could have misused corporate assets so blatantly without anyone knowing.

Whatever the truth, there will be no shortage of schadenfreude at his downfall. The 64-year-old is the personification of Davos Man, a member of the global elite who infest the Swiss ski resort for the annual World Economic Forum.

He was idolised for having brought Nissan back from the brink, nicknamed ‘le cost-cutter’ for his efficiency and ‘Mr 7/11’ for his appetite for work. He even featured in Manga comic books.

But this led him to behave more like an emperor than a manager. For Ghosn is typical of the ‘gold-collar workers’ – the cadre of top bosses who have multi-million pound pay packages, couture-clad second wives and private jets.

He occupies a different universe to the 6,700 decidedly blue collar workers at his Nissan factory in Sunderland, where they push out half a million cars every year.

His fall raises doubts over the future of a plant which supports another 27,000 workers in the supply chain – coveted jobs in a region which has struggled with higher than average unemployment.

But it has a broader significance: he embodies the rootless, ultra-privileged masters of the universe whose amoral behaviour has created a crisis of confidence in capitalism.

Since the financial crisis, voters have seen finances squeezed and jobs vanish, leaving them disillusioned with established politics: in Sunderland, they voted overwhelmingly for Brexit.

The mogul was born in Lebanon, brought up in Brazil and educated in Paris. Home is a penthouse with views across Tokyo.

But, his accusers say, he also made use of homes in Brazil, Paris, Amsterdam and Beirut at the company’s expense. Ghosn is of course innocent until proven otherwise, but his predicament is a serious blow.

This is a man far more at home in the corridors of power than the spartan surroundings of the Tokyo Detention Centre.

Famously, he met Theresa May shortly after the Brexit referendum in 2016, obtaining assurances from the Prime Minister regarding the Sunderland plant.

Many businessmen would have been over-awed at meeting the PM but blasé Ghosn gave the impression the honour was all Mrs May’s. ‘I had the impression I know this office by heart.

Because I was there before to see David Cameron, Gordon Brown, there are five prime ministers I met in the same office,’ he said.

He was well-acquainted with Tony Blair, whose County Durham constituency is close to the Nissan works. The ties have persisted, as Cherie Blair, the former PM’s wife, is a director of Renault.

Ghosn began his career at tyre maker Michelin in 1978, moved to Renault in 1996, and was sent three years later by that company to troubleshoot at Nissan.

His success made him a semi-godlike figure. An acid-tinged profile in a business magazine told how he would fly into top end hotels by helicopter, arriving at the Peninsula Bangkok hotel using a lounge on the 37th floor reserved for aerial check-ins.

Generations of aspiring executives lapped up his every word, including bland essays he penned last year, entitled ‘My Personal History’, where he gushed about his children, Caroline, Nadine, Maya and Anthony, but did not mention their mother Rita, to whom he was married for more than two decades.

In a Facebook post on Monday that was taken down, she said that ‘narcissists’ pretend to have morals and values ‘that they really don’t possess’, adding: ‘Behind closed doors they lie, insult, criticise, disrespect and abuse.’

The party he threw in 2016 for his wedding to his willowy second wife Carole can be seen as a warning.

The do, at Versailles, was inspired by Sofia Coppola film Marie Antoinette and featured actors in 18th-century costume. Carole said: ‘We wanted it to feel as if we were inviting guests into our home, nothing too studied.’

One of Ghosn’s hobbies is reading about the Roman Empire. Soon, he may have more time to reflect on his own rise and fall.

====== 526 ========

DIVIDEND BONANZA AT WATER FIRM SEVERN TRENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS SET TO RECEIVE £123M

Water company Severn Trent is set to hand its shareholders £123m

Water company Severn Trent is set to hand its shareholders £123million in a dividend bonanza.

The 7.9 per cent rise in the half-year payment, from 34.6p to 37.4p, followed a promise to raise dividends by inflation plus 4 per cent every year.

It comes amid growing anger at utility firms over excessive pay as customers have been handed bill hikes and regulators have warned them about failing to tackle leaks.

It has sparked threats from the Labour Party to nationalise the industry.

Sales were up 3.5 per cent to £881.5million for the six months to September 30, with profits rising 1.4 per cent to £299.1million.

It is on course for its biggest year of investment in a decade, with more than £300million spent this year.

====== 527 ========

FRESH REVOLT BREWING AT ROYAL MAIL AFTER AMERICAN PARCELS BUSINESSES FLOPS COSTING INVESTORS £68M

Royal Mail shareholders have demanded more information about the flop of its American parcels businesses

Royal Mail is facing more investor anger – this time over a £68million writedown of its American parcels businesses.

Top 20 shareholders have demanded more information about the flop, saying they are 'not happy'.

It could trigger a fresh rebellion by irate investors, just months after the resignation of former chairman Peter Long over sky-high pay.

The company paid £80.6million in total for Postal Express and Golden State Overnight Delivery (GSO) but now says 85 per cent of their value has been wiped out.

Both are part of Royal Mail's GLS parcels division and it has been combining them into one.

But this month it revealed the merged operation made a loss of £6million in the six months to September 23.

Royal Mail blamed rising costs and teething problems with the merger.

It said GSO was growing but Postal Express continues to be affected by its integration and a decision to focus on small to medium-sized businesses.

Two top investors are now reportedly demanding answers as to why.

Jefferies analyst David Kerstens said the pressures, which also include sluggish progress on cost savings and low productivity, could put its dividend at risk.

====== 528 ========

BIG UK AUDIT FIRMS FACING 15 PROBES: WATCHDOG ATTEMPTS TO PROVE IT IS UP TO THE TASK OF REGULATION

The industry watchdog is probing Britain’s biggest bean-counters over 15 botched audits.

Accountants at major firms such as KPMG, Deloitte and PwC face investigations from the Financial Reporting Council (FRC), which is desperately attempting to prove it is up to the task of regulation.

It has now opened a fresh investigation into KPMG, which is already being scrutinised in five cases, for alleged misconduct relating to the work it did for mattress company Silentnight.

Before its collapse, Silentnight was promoted by celebrities including Myleene Klass. But in early 2011, it was struggling under cash flow pressure and a hefty pension deficit

It is claimed that KPMG and one of its partners, David Costley-Wood, accepted the job when their professional judgement was compromised.

The FRC also alleges that KPMG and Costley-Wood were involved in misleading claims made by Silentnight to regulators and trustees over its pension fund. The case will go to a tribunal.

In previous cases where misconduct has been proven, firms have been slapped with multi-million pound fines and individuals banned from the accounting profession.

A KPMG spokesman said: ‘We believe the FRC’s allegations to be wholly without merit.’

Before its collapse, Silentnight was promoted by celebrities including Myleene Klass. But in early 2011, it was struggling under cash flow pressure and a hefty pension deficit.

It called in KPMG, which proposed a so-called Company Voluntary Arrangement, where Silentnight would agree with its lenders to pay back a portion of its debt over a longer period.

However that fell through when the Pensions Regulator and the Pension Protection Fund refused to support it, and KPMG was appointed administrator.

Eventually, Silentnight was sold to private equity firm HIG Capital.

The FRC, which announced a probe into scandal-ridden bakery chain Patisserie Valerie this week, is trying to throw off criticism for being ineffective.

MPs called the watchdog toothless after it failed to hold any audit firms to account over financial statements they rubber-stamped for banks which came close to collapse during the financial crisis.

Sir John Kingman is leading a Government-commissioned review of whether the FRC should be scrapped.

====== 529 ========

OIL PRICE PLUMBS THE DEPTHS: BRENT CRUDE DIVES TO BELOW $60 A BARREL ON FEARS OF A GLOBAL SLOWDOWN

Oil prices last night crashed below $60 a barrel for the first time in more than a year amid growing fears of a global economic slowdown.

Brent crude hit its lowest levels since October 2017, dropping 6 per cent to $58.80 in frantic trading across the world, and is headed for its worst month since 2014.

The value of a barrel of oil has fallen by about 20 per cent so far this month and has lost ground for seven straight weeks.

Brent crude hit its lowest levels since October 2017, dropping 6 per cent to $58.80 in frantic trading across the world, and is headed for its worst month since 2014

It peaked above $86 a barrel in early October, a four-year high.

The fall is good news for motorists, after supermarkets Asda, Sainsbury’s and Morrisons all passed on the drop by cutting prices at the petrol pumps.

But it also reflects growing concerns about the world economy, and an increasingly heated trade war between the US and China.

Traders also fretted about a slump in the eurozone, after the closely monitored IHS Markit survey showed that business growth had been much weaker than expected this month, slowing to a four-year low.

Activity in Germany – Europe’s largest economy – and France also lagged.

A strong dollar is also weighing on oil prices as there are concerns investors will pull their money out of developing countries and put it in America, damaging growth.

The latest sell-off was partly triggered by a forecast from the Opec cartel of producers saying that the amount of oil supplied into the market will be higher than expected. At the same time, Opec said demand is likely to fall.

The organisation hiked its estimate of non-Opec supply growth by 90,000 barrels per day from its last report, to 2.3m barrels a day in 2018, and up by 120,000 barrels a day next year.

Opec has been trying to stabilise the market since November 2016, but these efforts have also come alongside a surge in production in non-member countries, namely the US, Russia and China, which risk flooding the market and damaging prices.

It was also thought that US sanctions on Iran could stop it exporting to major customers, holding back supply, but most of the country’s key clients have been allowed to maintain their access.

If suppliers produce more oil than is needed, they are forced to cut their costs.

Cailin Birch, global commodities analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit, said: ‘Oil prices’ recent slide primarily reflects the weakening outlook for global oil demand.

‘The US’s decision to issue waivers for major importers of Iranian oil has erased earlier fears that US sanctions would create a supply crunch. Against that backdrop, the slowing pace of Chinese growth, and therefore energy demand growth, is a concern.

‘Emerging economies in Asia, primarily China, will be responsible for much of the new oil consumption in the coming years, so oil prices will remain very sensitive to the region’s economic performance,’ Birch said.

The weeks-long drop in oil comes after two years of rising prices – which led to a jump in the cost of fuel – has had knock-on effects for airlines and travellers.

Morgan Stanley commodities strategists, Martijn Rats and Amy Sergeant, said in a note to clients that they expect Opec to gain control of the market in 2019, meaning Brent crude would rise back above $70.

Analysts are now waiting to see if Opec will try to cut output when the organisation meets next month.

In the US, President Trump is strongly opposed to any production cuts. Earlier this week, he said in a tweet: ‘Oil prices getting lower. Great! Like a big tax cut for America and the world. Let’s go lower!’

Trump’s opposition to higher oil prices is particularly important because he has so far refused to take action against Saudi Arabia over the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi.

It is thought the Saudis do not want to upset the President at such a sensitive time and are therefore less likely to support production cuts than usual.

Olivier Jakob, of analysis firm Petromatrix, said Trump ‘has provided strong political support to Saudi Arabia, but against that he wants lower prices’.

He added: ‘The President is pushing to keep prices lower for longer, and now he has some political leverage against Saudi Arabia.’

====== 530 ========

WHAT BURST THE BITCOIN BUBBLE AND COULD IT RISE AGAIN? THIS IS MONEY PODCAST

A year ago bitcoin could do no wrong – now it has slumped to 79 per cent below its peak.

So what went wrong for the much vaunted cryptocurrency?

The mania of a year ago gave way to a bust after Christmas and apart from a few short-lived rallies bitcoin has been mainly on the slide since.

That’s not to say it has no use - the cryptocurrency and underlying technology are fascinating - but just because something has some value does not mean it can’t end up massively overvalued and in a bubble.

On this week’s podcast, Simon Lambert, Georgie Frost and Myron Jobson look at what went wrong for bitcoin and the other cryptocurrencies and what we can learn from the boom and bust.

Also on this week’s show, they look at some more durable investments, companies that have paid a rising dividend for a decade or longer – and how some have seen big rises in their share price.

The potential return of 100 per cent mortgages and the sudden flurry of better savings rates are also on the agenda.

And finally, Simon talks us through the 2,100 road trip he took with his family to test out VW’s California campervan – and whether swapping your family car for a van that’s ready for adventure could ever be a smart move?

====== 531 ========

SPARK IS SECOND SMALL ENERGY FIRM TO GO UNDER IN A WEEK

Spark has become the second energy firm this week to cease trading, affecting up to 290,000 customers.

Following Extra Energy which collapsed on Wednesday, Spark cited 'increasingly tough trading conditions' in the energy industry as the reason for its closure.

The failure comes days after Spark missed a deadline to make a £14.4million renewable energy payment.

The energy supply of Spark's customers will continue under Ofgem's 'safety net' procedure, and the regulator will choose a new supplier and transfer accounts.

A Spark spokesman said that the company is still working to merge the parent firm and its workforce with a larger provider

The firm employs 400 people at its head office in Selkirk in the Scottish Borders. A spokesman said that the company is working to merge the parent firm and its workforce with a larger provider.

The spokesman said: 'If successful, it would mean Spark becomes a standalone part of this large independent supplier, operating from our offices in Selkirk, Edinburgh and Horsham offices, supplying our customers under the new parent company's licence.'

Founded in 2007, Spark has a turnover of more than £200million and around 15,000 broadband and telecoms customers.

It is the latest in a string of small energy firms to collapse, as they struggle with rising costs and low margins in a highly crowded marketplace.

Rival firms Extra Energy, Future Energy, National Gas and Power, Iresa Energy, Gen4U and Usio Energy have all gone bust in 2018.

Mary Starks, Ofgem's executive director for consumers and markets, said: 'Our message to energy customers with Spark is there is no need to worry, as under our safety net we will make sure your energy supplies are secure and your credit balance is protected.

'Ofgem will now choose a new supplier and ensure you get the best deal possible. Whilst we're doing this our advice is to 'sit tight' and don't switch.

'You can rely on your energy supply as normal. We will update you when we have chosen a new supplier, who will then get in touch about your new tariff.

'Although we have seen a number of supplier failures this year, our safety net procedures are working as they should to protect customers.'

The company has enlisted accountancy firm KPMG to assess all options for the firm, including an administration, according to The Press Association.

====== 532 ========

MAKE INHERITANCE TAX FORMS SIMPLER, SAY HAMMOND'S GOVERNMENT GURUS

Inheritance tax forms should be overhauled to make them shorter and simpler as a first step to improving a burdensome system, say Government officials.

Just 5 per cent of bereaved families pay inheritance tax, yet half have to fill in the form to notify the taxman even when there is nothing to pay, according to a new report on making the process easier.

The first findings of a review ordered by Chancellor Philip Hammond reveal the headaches caused for families - with 38 per cent who don't use an adviser spending more than 50 hours administering an estate.

That includes 12 per cent who spend more than 100 hours on the task.

Passing on wealth: Just 5 per cent of bereaved families pay inheritance tax, yet half currently fill in the form

HMRC should review its inheritance tax guidance to make it clearer and allay the concerns of those who worry about it needlessly, according to the report by the Office of Tax Simplification, an independent arm of the Treasury.

Its review is currently probing everything from submitting returns and paying tax, to making IHT-free gifts and estate planning - but there is no indication of whether the 40 per cent 'death tax' on estates over a certain level could be cut, or increased.

The OTS has focused on 'day to day matters of concern' in today's report, but a second is due in the spring which will look at 'key technical and design issues'.

OTS officials note that HMRC introduced a new 12-week response period from last April, during which it will make enquiries after the submission of an inheritance tax form.

The OTS dubs this 'a welcome improvement on previous practice', but adds the taxman should 'further refine' it if necessary.

It also recommends that HMRC start issuing automated receipts for inheritance tax payments, which 'would provide reassurance to executors'.

10 ways to avoid inheritance tax legally How to stop the taxman grabbing some of your estate from your loved ones - read more here.

The OTS's main recommendation today is that the Government should introduce a fully integrated digital system for inheritance tax.

However, it acknowledges that this will take time and suggests 'a very short form for the simplest estates' and a general simplification of forms should take place in the meantime.

The OTS says a new digital system would ideally include being able to complete a probate form - which allows loved ones to take control of an estate - at the same time as making an inheritance tax return.

It says HMRC should liaise with HM Courts and Tribunals Service on options for streamlining the payment and probate process.

A controversial revamp of probate fees is pending next April, which will see more small estates made exempt, but the largest ones face massive hikes of up to 3771 per cent.

'Administering an estate is a burden on all executors whether or not inheritance tax is due,' said the OTS, which received nearly 3,000 responses to an online survey and 500 personal emails from individuals.

'The OTS has heard from members of the public about the challenges faced by executors, with many wanting to share their experiences to help make improvements.

'This may simply have been reading guidance to establish that no forms need to be submitted to HMRC, or it may have been having to complete a long inheritance tax form and pay tax. The process should be easy to follow for either of these scenarios.

'There were 588,000 deaths in the UK in tax year 2015 to 2016 and an inheritance tax form was completed by just under half of these. This is a high proportion compared to the 24,500 estates on which inheritance tax was actually payable.'

A Treasury spokesperson said: 'Inheritance tax is a tax that matters to people, so it is right that the Chancellor asked the OTS to consider where the system could be made simpler.

'Once the review is published in full, the government will carefully consider the recommendations made.'

How does inheritance tax work? Inheritance tax was originally designed as a levy on the very wealthy, but triple digit property inflation since the 1980s has dragged more ordinary families living in expensive areas into its net. Just 5 per cent of people leave estates sufficiently large to make their beneficiaries liable for inheritance tax. However, the property boom of recent decades means that figure is expected to rise, with those inheriting in house price hotspots bearing the biggest financial burden. Essentially, you need to be worth £325,000 if you are single, or £650,000 jointly if you are married or in a civil partnership, for your loved ones to have to stump up death duties. But a new own home allowance - known as the residence nil rate band - lets you pass on more than that. If you have a partner, own a property, and intend to leave money to your direct descendants, that threshold has started to rise in stages and will reach a joint £1million by 2020. If you are worth more than this, your heirs will have to hand over 40 per cent of your assets above those levels to the Government. > Read more about reducing your inheritance tax bill here

How much does the Government rake in from inheritance tax?

Fewer than 25,000 bereaved families a year are liable for inheritance tax, which represents 5 per cent of all deaths, according to the OTS.

But in the cases of around 275,000 out of 570,000 deaths a years, inheritance tax forms need to be submitted because the value of the estate must be reported to HMRC, even where there is no tax liability.

Inheritance tax receipts have been steadily increasing, from £2.38billion in 2009/2010 to £5.2billion in 2017/2018.

'Inheritance tax makes up less than 1 per cent of the total tax raised by the Exchequer,' says the OTS. 'To put this into context, this would cover just over one week’s worth of the cost of providing UK pensions and welfare benefits that year.'

It adds that the increase in inheritance tax receipts is expected to slow in future due to the own home allowance explained above.

The tax gap, the shortfall between the inheritance tax that should be paid and what is actually paid, is £600million.

'This is relatively high, as a percentage of the total inheritance tax due, compared with other taxes,' says the OTS.

Inheritance tax is set at 40% - but how much do those liable really pay?

The 'effective' rate actually paid by the average estate peaks at just over 20 per cent, says the OTS.

The chart below shows the effective rate increases from under 5 per cent for estates with a net value under £1 million, up to 20 per cent for estates valued at £2-3 million.

It then levels off, until hitting just above 20 per cent for estates valued at £6-7million, before falling to 10 per cent for estates worth £10 million-plus.

'It is important to remember that the vast majority of estates have a value of less than £1million. Fewer than 3 per cent of estates have a value above this,' says the OTS.

'Estates with a net value below the nil rate band of £325,000 do not pay inheritance tax and therefore have an average effective tax rate of 0 per cent.'

The OTS says the average effective tax rate does not reach 40 per cent because of the spouse exemption - where a first deceased partner's nil rate band is transferred to a surviving partner - and other reliefs.

'Many estates are left wholly or mostly to spouses or civil partners. These estates will be subject to little or no inheritance tax.'

Meanwhile, higher value estates have a lower average effective tax rate because a greater proportion of their assets are likely to be covered by a relief - business, agriculture and so on.

The chart below shows more than 70 per cent of the value of an estate worth £10million-plus is relieved in this way.

The chart below shows the asset composition of estates of increasing values, which helps explain why the higher the value of the estate the more relief it is likely to enjoy, according to the OTS.

'Lower value estates mostly consist of cash and residential property which do not commonly attract relief from inheritance tax and are relied upon to live and fund peoples’ everyday lives.

'As estates increase in value, they have proportionately less cash and residential property, and more securities and ‘other assets’.

'Other assets' more commonly attract relief from inheritance tax - unlisted shares, AIM shares and farms, for example.

Why do people complain about inheritance tax?

'Inheritance tax appears to be an almost uniquely unpopular tax,' notes the OTS. Here's a round up of some of the criticisms it received.

* Concern about administrative issues, especially that inheritance tax returns must be made even when there is no tax to pay, and that tax may need to be paid before any assets can be sold.

* Confusion over complexity, particularly involving the new own home allowance, but also over the various gift rules and exemptions.

* The rate is seen as high, despite the sizeable threshold which means few pay it and an average effective tax rate of 20 per cent, rather than the headline 40 per cent.

* It’s paying tax twice, though the OTS points out this is not exceptional, and VAT on purchases made with earnings could also be considered ‘double’ taxation.

'It should also be borne in mind that some of the wealth on which inheritance tax may be paid is not taxed at any other time, in particular the increase in value of a person’s home since it was purchased,' it says.

* People without spouses or direct descendants lose out, because married people and civil partners can leave estates without incurring inheritance tax.

The new own home allowance is also not available to someone who has never owned a home or has no qualifying descendants.

* Concern about the number of people it may apply to, as the OTS’s online survey found some 53 per cent believed correctly that fewer than 5 per cent pay inheritance tax, but 26 per cent incorrectly thought the figure was 20 per cent or more.

* Concern that wealthy people don’t pay it, due to careful tax planning, the use of various reliefs, making lifetime gifts and creating trusts.

What do finance experts say?

'This report shines a spotlight on the impact of forcing people through a fiendishly complicated process at a really horrible time in their lives,' says Sarah Coles, personal finance analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown.

'It’s an area crying out for radical simplification, and the Office of Tax Simplification has some useful recommendations. Simplification is the key to understanding and engagement, so anything that simplifies the process is welcome.”

'It recognises that any long-term solution will be digital and mobile – which could make an enormous difference to executors buried in paperwork and impenetrable manuals. Unfortunately, a fully digital solution isn’t going to see the light of day in a hurry.

“Streamlining the process is incredibly useful, but simplifying the rules as well would be transformative. The OTS doesn’t rule this out – it has promised to address all kinds of things – ranging from gifts to trusts and the residence nil rate band.

'This will come as no comfort to anyone currently mired in the process. You’re likely to hit your deadline for submitting your forms well before we see any material change.'

Laura Suter, personal finance analyst at investment platform AJ Bell, says: 'The Office of Tax Simplification has unveiled plans to stop the unnecessary form filling and stress a large proportion of families have to undergo when a loved one dies.

'It is ridiculous that ten times the number of people fill out the form associated with inheritance tax than actually pay it.

'A simple online system would mean that up to 250,000 people each year could avoid the stressful process and instead find out instantly online whether they need to complete the longer form filling.

'This is clearly needed as the report shows that 13 per cent of people spend more than 100 hours on the administrative rigmarole associated with inheritance tax, while 90 per cent of people spent 10 hours or more.'

'The report highlights that the wealthiest families are paying less tax than the middle class, with estates worth £10m or more paying an effective 10 per cent tax rate, compared to a 20 per cent tax for those with smaller estates of £2m to £3m.

'This is undoubtedly down to the fact that the wealthiest families get professional advice to set up trusts and make full use of the allowances, while those with smaller estates do not.'

Steps taken by someone administering an estate

Step by step guide: The OTS produced a handy flow chart

How many inheritance tax forms and supplemental forms are there?

====== 533 ========

COMPARE THE BEST MONEY TRANSFER EXCHANGE RATES IN THREE EASY STEPS

From holiday money to business fx rates, make sure you always find the best exchange rate.

How FXcompared can help you choose the best foreign exchange provider

FXcompared is an independent comparison site for international money transfer that offers a choice of carefully selected, low-cost ways to send money abroad.

It's ideal for people buying a home abroad, for specialist business currency exchange services or just a really nice holiday.

HOW CURRENCY EXCHANGE WORKS 1. Choose the countries you're sending money from and to 2. Choose an amount and hit 'compare now' 3. Check the results and select a provider - there is no obligation

Transferring currency will take two days - or maybe three to some of the more exotic countries.

Once you checked the exchange rates and compared any transfer fees, you're under no obligation to trade until you register with a broker and decide to go ahead.

All the brokers offer 24hr online access so you can track your transfer. Some also offer a phone service.

As with the banks, money transfer providers have a legal obligation to verify your identity before your money can be transferred.

Typically you will be asked for a copy of your passport, ID card or driving licence. You'll also need to verify your address by uploading a copy of a utility bill.

The providers listed are regulated by the relevant financial bodies in the countries or regions they operate. For example, the FCA in the UK, FinCEN in the US, and ASIC in Australia.

FXcompared is owned by FX Compared Limited, a private UK company based in London.

====== 534 ========

CAN A SECOND WIFE INHERIT HER HUSBAND'S STATE PENSION?

My sister-in-law was married in 2005, to a man who paid full National Insurance contribution dues, thereby earning him a full pension.

He died this week, aged 84, after being confined to bed for nearly three years after a brain bleed. He was married previously, and his first wife died in 1994.

My sister-in-law has now received a letter to say that her pension income will not be increased, even though it is less than a quarter of her late husband’s.

Bereaved wife: My sister-in-law received a letter to say that her pension income will not be increased - is this because she was her late husband's second wife?

There is no explanation. I have checked many sites but can find no reason for why she is being denied. The only possibility is that her husband was previously married even though his wife died nearly 25 years ago.

As far as I can see, there is no explanation of this on any YouGov website. Is there a rule that a second wife cannot receive any of her husband’s pension?

I would be grateful for any information. My sister-in-law is 80 herself and not in good health, even though she has looked after her husband, with carers, for these three years. Thanks in anticipation.

SCROLL DOWN TO FIND OUT HOW TO ASK YOUR PENSION QUESTION

Steve Webb replies: Thank you for your question. I was sorry to read about your sister-in-law’s recent bereavement.

Your question relates to the rules around whether widows can inherit a state pension, and how this might be affected by the fact that this is a second marriage.

All of these rules (and my answer) relate to the state pension system as it affects people who reached state pension age before 6 April 2016.

After this date, the rules changed significantly and the ability to inherit a state pension was largely (though not wholly) removed.

What are the new state pension rules for married people? Read more here about how the system works for married people who retire after 6 April 2016 The Pensions Advisory Service has more information here.

There is nothing in the information you have supplied to make me think that your sister-in-law should not get a significantly enhanced state pension, assuming that there is no dispute over her marital status.

I explain why in detail below, but I would encourage your sister-in-law to ask for a written explanation of why she is being refused an uplift, and would be more than happy to look at it if you wanted to share it with me.

Can your sister-in-law inherit her husband's state pension?

The first thing that I notice is that your sister-in-law married when her husband was already over state pension age.

Happily, this has no bearing on whether or not she can inherit a pension. What matters is that she and her husband were married when he died, not when they married.

The second thing, as you say, is that your sister-in-law is the second wife of this gentleman. Again, that does not reduce her entitlements.

Provided that they were married at the time of his death, she has exactly the same rights to inherit a state pension as she would if she was his first wife.

If, however, your sister-in-law had previously been married to someone else then her ability to claim a pension based on that husband’s record would cease at the point that she married someone new.

Steve Webb: Find out how to ask the former Pensions Minister a question about your retirement savings in the box below

Interestingly, both your sister-in-law and the first wife of the man who has died (if she was still alive and had not remarried) could in principle both claim for an enhanced pension based on his record of NI contributions.

His NI record could, in effect, support both his second wife and his first wife, and there would be no reduction in entitlement for the fact that two people were deriving an entitlement from a single NI record.

What extra state pension could your sister-in-law be entitled to?

In terms of the amount your sister-in-law could get, there are two components.

The first relates to her basic state pension. From your email, I am inferring that she is drawing less than a full basic state pension, currently £125.95.

If so, I would expect her state pension to be increased to this level based on her late husband’s contributions.

The second relates to any payments the late husband was receiving under SERPS – the state earnings-related pension scheme. Broadly speaking, a surviving spouse is entitled to inherit at least half of his SERPS pension and more if retired some time ago.

Based on the table on the Government website here and on the dates you have given, it seems likely she could inherit up to 100 per cent of his SERPS pension.

If the deceased man did not have much of a SERPS pension this might be because he was a member of a workplace pension and there could be an entitlement to his widow from that scheme as well (or instead).

====== 535 ========

FIVE STEPS TO BECOMING A TECH-SAVVY SAVER: FROM SWITCHING YOUR ENERGY TO INVESTING

Whether you love it or loathe it, there's no denying that technology can be your best friend when it comes to your finances.

Clever new mobile and online tools can help you avoid the usual mountain of paperwork it takes to keep on top of your savings, bills and investments.

To boot, there are a whole host of tech firms now that promise to save you a heap of cash too.

To help get you started, here are our five simple steps to using tech to streamline your financial life.

Money-saving tech: Households can use smartphone apps and online tools to help save money on energy and mortgage bills and to help grow their savings and investments

Sign up to a marketplace

Smartphone apps and online banking have made keeping on top of your money much easier over recent years.

But if you have accounts with several banks it can still be time consuming to log in to each one on a regular basis, discouraging you from being more proactive with your money.

If you don’t regularly review your accounts though, it’s all too easy to ignore financial niggles – overlooking an overdraft for a few days or letting a savings pot sit in an account paying miserly interest.

Having all of your accounts in one place takes out much of the hassle and there are heaps of tools to choose from that will do this for you.

They're known as marketplaces and work by drawing in all of your balances and debts from your current accounts, savings accounts, mortgages, credit cards and loans.

To do this, you'll have to log in to each of your accounts through the app - so make sure it's fully registered and authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority. This will mean if your data is compromised or money lost, you're covered either by your bank or by the marketplace app.

Some offer budgeting tools, predict expenditure and categorise all of your transactions to help you understand where you shell out the most.

Some will also nudge you when a bill is due or forecast how much money you will have left after all of your bills come out, helping you set yourself savings goals.

Auto-switching: Labrador will automatically move you to a cheaper energy deal

Sign up to an energy auto-switching service

Stick with the same energy provider for too long and you will quickly begin to pay over the odds, thanks to the age old loyalty trap.

Once your initial deal ends, suppliers automatically shift customers on to out-of-contract tariffs, known as standard variable rate deals. These typically costs £100s more each year.

Last month, figures from Ofgem showed that the average big six standard variable rate deal costs £1,190.83 a year compared to a market cheapest of £839.

The biggest barriers to switching to a cheaper tariff for most families is the perceived hassle and time.

An automatic energy switching tool does it all for you. These apps continuously search the market to see if you could save by moving elsewhere, and then handle the move for you.

You can choose to move only to fixed-rate deals, green energy or those compatible with a smart meter, those with the best customer service or even just larger suppliers.

You might be put off by visions of madly swapping providers every five minutes, but most have to identify a minimum annual saving of £50 or more before they will suggest a switch, and you always have the final say before you are moved.

No-hassle investing: There are clever tools on the market that round up your spending to divert into an investing pot

Start auto-saving and investing

Growing a savings or investment pot is all about starting a habit.

Often small regular payments will go unnoticed from your account anyway, but inertia or the belief that we can’t afford it, puts people off altogether.

Any easy fix is to set up automatic savings or investing rule.

You can do this yourself, paying money out of your current account each month, but there are several clever tools that also encourage you to invest or save regularly.

Some analyse your spending to calculate how much you can save without impacting your everyday spending, other options include those that round up your debit card spending to the nearest pound and divert these pennies into a savings or investment account.

While you are not going to amass huge pots overnight, by rounding up your spending, you can top up an existing habit or begin a new one.

Consolidate your pensions

Over the course of your career you are likely to have accumulated several workplace pensions from different employers. Indeed, the average worker will switch jobs 11 times in their life.

The more you have, the harder they are to keep track of. This risks leaving investments languishing on expensive plans or in poorly performing funds.

But you can combine them all into one pot known as a self-invested personal pension or Sipp.

The major benefit of having them all in one place is that you get a better understanding of the level of pension savings you will have at retirement, and you can also make changes to your investments more easily and perhaps save on fees.

There are some drawbacks of course, these should be considered carefully before you make any decisions.

As a general rule you shouldn’t consider this if you are lucky enough to be in a final salary scheme and remember the closer you are to retirement, the smaller benefits of doing this.

Be careful you are not giving up any guaranteed benefits such as a guaranteed annuity rate as these can be valuable, and consider how the fees compare and if there are any exit penalties or restrictions.

To move existing pensions over you will need your old scheme’s policy number and to give some personal details to your new chosen scheme. They will then contact your old provider and move your investments over – this takes four to six weeks.

Could you clear your mortgage quicker? Get alerts to ensure you never pay a higher interest rate than you need to

Sign up for alerts on when you could save on your mortgage by switching

Homeowners who fail to remortgage at the end of a fixed rate term and end up on their lender's standard variable rate hand over around £400 a year more than necessary.

With rock bottom mortgage rates still available, switching to a new deal could save you money, even before you have lapsed onto an expensive deal.

There are now clever tools to help ensure you never overpay.

You can find companies that continuously monitor your existing mortgage on a monthly basis and automatically alert you the minute you could save by remortgaging.

Some automatically update your mortgage balance, remaining term, loan-to-value and property valuation on a monthly basis to factor in to their calculations. This means borrowers need not lift a finger.

====== 536 ========

FAKE TESCO COMPETITION LURES CUSTOMERS WITH PRIZES TO GET PERSONAL INFORMATION AND STEAL MONEY

Fraudsters are running a fake Tesco competition by email that tempts customers into handing over banking details with the promise of prizes - and could drain cash from their accounts.

A reader has written to This is Money to warn others about an email where the sender purports to be from Tesco. It promises various free prizes in exchange for personal information following the completion of a “survey” and money for a “postage fee”.

The reader, who wished to remain anonymous, said: ‘I received an email to my personal email account from a very authentic Tesco site saying I am eligible for entry in a prize draw if I complete a customer satisfaction survey.

Retailer Tesco has confirmed that this email with promises of various free limited products is a scam.

‘As a Tesco customer I decided to take the survey, winning a choice of one of three prizes. I opted for the CBC oil. The winner was asked to only pay postage of £4.95. I clicked the link for the goods which did not lead to the product I had selected (CBC oil).

'I became suspicious and called Tesco customer service department, which had no idea about the offer - it was a scam. I sent the real Tesco the email and pics of the scam Tesco site.

'They said they would look into the matter. I have heard nothing back from Tesco yet.’

The scammers try to get victims to part with their money in order to claim their "prize"

Tesco has since confirmed that the competition and survey is a scam.

A spokesperson said: ‘We would never ask customers to pay money in exchange for a reward.

‘If a customer is ever unsure about a suspicious email, they can always check by calling our customer service team on 0800 50 55 55.'

It’s not the first time that scammers have used the ruse that their emails or texts come from legitimate companies like Tesco.

This is Money has recently reported how hoax emails (also known as phishing emails) are being sent claiming to be from the TV Licensing department and HM Revenue and Customs.

Last year there were also reports that criminals were using WhatsApp to send fake supermarket vouchers purporting to be from Tesco and other retailers like Asda and Aldi.

Fake emails or texts promise people they are owed money, free vouchers, rewards points or prizes but are sophisticated attempts to fleece unsuspecting victims out of their hard earned cash.

The emails will also typically include links that take people to websites where their personal information (such as banking details) can be stolen.

To prompt a quick reaction from victims, the content of the emails may contain threats or warnings about “deals” expiring if no action is taken.

Tesco warns on its website that it doesn’t run any competitions via email or social media offering free vouchers or rewards for liking, sharing and commenting on posts.

The retailer also warns about fake ‘Tesco Offers’ pages that pop up on Facebook, saying: ‘We don’t have a separate “offers” page. The fake voucher giveaway is just the bait used to trick people in engaging with the bogus page and there are no real prizes up for grabs.’

====== 537 ========

FORD LOTUS CORTINA RACED BY JIM CLARK TIPPED TO SELL FOR RECORD £200K

A Ford Lotus Cortina could set a new record as the most expensive version to ever be sold when it goes under the hammer early next year.

The former racer is estimated to change hands for up to £200,000 when it's offered to the highest bidder at a Silverstone Auctions sale, in Birmingham, in January.

Forecast to beat the current record figure paid for a Cortina - which currently stands at £191,900 - this is a car that's been driven by some of the greats, with Jim Clark, Graham Hill and Jackie Ickx all having been at the wheel of the super-rare Lotus-tuned Ford.

Fast Ford: This super-rare Lotus Cortina - a former works race car - could set a new record if it sells for £200,000

The car will go in front of the world's deepest-pocketed motor collectors, on January 12, during the Autosport International show at the NEC in the Midlands city.

It's one of only three 'Group 5' works cars built by Lotus for the 1966 British Saloon Championship and has a steering wheel that's been graced with the hands of some of the world's most successful racing drivers of all time.

Clark and Hill alone have four Formula One titles to their name, while Ickx and Peter Arundell are other notable former F1 drivers to have piloted this particular machine, along with former British and European Touring Car champ Sir John Whitmore.

Thanks to all of these names - along with others that are listed down the side of the car - that have been in the driver's seat and its incredible provenance, the car will be offered with an estimate of £180,000 to £200,000.

That puts it in world record territory.

The most expensive Ford Lotus Cortina was bought earlier this year at the Bonhams Goodwood Festival of Speed sale in July.

That car, registration number JTW 498C, was an earlier works models from 1965 that was also raced by Jim Clark.

It already held the record figure of £136,000 when the previous keeper bought it in 2007, though they went on to make a massive £56,000 profit when they offered it to a new home in the summer.

The car is one of only 3 'Group 5' models created in 1966 for the British Saloon Car Championship

It was first delivered to Jim Clark that year, who was the reigning Formula One champion

This image shows Clark at the wheel of another Cortina in the mid-60s

Two-time F1 champion Graham Hill has also driven this particular model being auctioned

Announcing its availability this week, Lionel Abbott, classic car specialist at Silverstone Auctions, said: 'We’re delighted to be offering this amazing Lotus Cortina at our inaugural Autosport International Sale.

'With its impressive history, it’s a fantastic addition to the sale catalogue and a sign of what’s to come.'

The glorious Cortina, registration number PHK 614D, was built in March 1966 and immediately assigned to then reigning F1 champion Jim Clark for use at a rain disrupted Oulton Park.

It went on to be raced throughout the 1966 season by fellow Formula 1 drivers Peter Arundell and Jacky Ickx, who took the car to second in class in finishes at Snetterton, Goodwood and Silverstone.

The car will go in front of the world's deepest-pocketed motor collectors on January 12 during the Autosport International show at the NEC in the midlands city

Every famed driver from the generation to drive this car is listed on the panel behind the driver's door

In June 1966 the four-cylinder 1.6-litre petrol engine was converted to fuel injection by BRM

This image might go some way to explain why it's rare for Ford Lotus Cortina race cars to still be in survival today

In June 1966 its four-cylinder 1.6-litre petrol engine was converted to fuel injection by BRM before racing at the Grand Prix support race at Brands Hatch, where Whitmore achieved first in class, finishing in forth position overall.

It later went on to achieve more podiums and victories later that year.

In 1967 the car appeared in its last works event, finishing its Team Lotus career on a high with Graham Hill taking it to first in class and second overall in the Race of Champions at Brands Hatch, a year before he claimed his second F1 title.

After eight more competitive finishes in 1967 and 1968, the car then spent many years in Africa until purchased by Cedric Selzar - Jim Clark’s race mechanic - and repatriated to the UK.

According to the clocks, it has covered just 4,831 miles, suggesting it has barely turned a wheel since being officially retired from the racing paddock.

'Given its exceptional rarity, competition successes and association with World Champions, this amazing Lotus Cortina offers a fantastic opportunity to acquire one of the most significant sports touring cars of the 1960s,' Abbott added.

Is it a genuine racer? Look at this stripped out interior as proof

The car comes with matching engine and chassis numbers proving its originality

Belgian driver Jacky Ickx (left) and Sir John Whitmore (right) have both raced this car

According to the clocks, it has covered just 4,831 miles, suggesting it has barely turned a wheel since being officially retired from the racing paddock

It will go under the hammer 53 years after it was conceived still in its authentic condition following a sympathetic restoration, and still retains its original shell and all the period race modifications to the suspension and the engine.

It's accompanied by the V5 document, full details of its works competition history in 1966, 1967 and 1968 as well as a small number of spares.

Considering the racing heritage, don't be surprised if it becomes a record setter in less than two months.

£200k would also buy you this piece of '80s rallying history

Silverstone Auctions is also offering this incredible full-blooded MG Metro 6R4 Group B rally car to the highest bidder

It has a 3.0-litre V6 engine positioned behind the front seats and driving all four wheels

Silverstone Auctions says it is one of the 20 race cars created - not one of the 200 road models

Those looking to spend a similar amount of money for something a little more extreme could instead raise their paddle for this bonkers Group B rally MG.

It's a 1985 Metro 6R4 - Austin Rover's outlandish creation in pursuit of World Rally Championship glory in one of the most notorious series to ever grace dirt or tarmac.

In what became a performance arms race between the likes of Audi, Lancia, Ford and Peugeot, each manufacturer created some of the most iconic race cars of all time.

Beneath the bulging body kit and masses of aero and wings is a 3.0-litre V6 engine positioned behind the front seats and driving all four wheels.

Twin-cam cylinder heads, modelled on those of Cosworth's Formula 1 DFV V8 engine, ensured the 6R4 was a true giant killer.

Just a year after this model was created, Group B rallying was scrapped after a series of fatalities involving spectators

If you're interested in spending £200,000 on a 30 year old Metro, then you'll need to head to the NEC in Birmingham on January 12

Around 200 road cars - called the 'Clubman' - were created that developed around 250bhp, which was a significant output for any motor with registration plates and a tax disc over three decades ago.

However, this is believed to be one of the 20 full-blooded racers built to International 'Group B' specifications, meaning closer to a fire-breathing 410bhp.

Poll Which of these £200k cars would you choose? 1966 Ford Lotus Cortina 1985 MG Metro 6R4 Which of these £200k cars would you choose? 1966 Ford Lotus Cortina 439 votes

1985 MG Metro 6R4 77 votes Now share your opinion







Just a year after this model was created, Group B rallying was scrapped after a series of fatalities involving spectators, denying the 6R4 the chance to lay down a significant marker and stripping the British manufacturer of the opportunity to compete for a title.

This immaculate 6R4 is undoubtedly one of the lowest mileage examples of a genuine Group B rally car that you could hope to find.

Properly maintained and serviced, 'on the button' and ready to go, this is a fantastic opportunity.

====== 538 ========

MOTORISTS FACE FINES OF UP TO £130 FOR PARKING IN CYCLE LANES

Motorists who park their cars in cycle lanes could face fines of up to £130 and charges for face dangerous driving captured on helmet cameras under new government laws due to be introduced.

The new measures are part of a two-year action plan designed to improve road safety and promote cycling and walking in built-up areas.

The Department for Transport said that local councils would be given the powers to use Automatic Number Plate Recognition cameras to police cycle lanes for the first time in the UK to curb the number of drivers blocking routes.

And a new unit will be created to review footage of poor driving captured on dash-cams and cyclists' helmet cameras.

More protection for cyclists and pedestrians: New measured introduced by the Department for Transport aim to protect the most vulnerable road users

Making the announcement on Thursday, roads minister Jesse Norman said: 'Greater road safety – and especially the protection of vulnerable road users such as cyclists, pedestrians and horse riders – is essential.'

As part of the measures, London councils would be allowed to impose fines of up to £130 on motorists found to be infringing cycle lanes in the capital, while drivers elsewhere could face penalties of up to £70, the new rules dictate.

It means drivers face additional surveillance by ANPR cameras, which are already being issued to issue a variety of fines for offences such as speeding and entering box junctions.

Other measures being introduced as part of the 24-month plan include creating incentives for motorists and cyclists to report poor driving to police by submitting evidence captured on dash-cam and helmet cameras.

A new police unit will be created to analyse evidence of dangerous driving caught on camera by all road users.

The DfT announced that the 'back office unit' will be among 50 proposed new measures that aim to protect vulnerable road users and combat road rage.

The new unit builds on the success of Operation Snap, which was first piloted by North Wales Police in October 2016 and offered easy means for motorists to upload footage of dangerous driving captured on this dashboard cameras.

In less than a year of the operation being introduced the force said it had dealt with 129 cases as a result of footage submitted by members of the public.

The new unit, which will initially be set up with a £100,000 grant, will distribute footage to forces around the country to help prosecute antisocial motorists.

Motorists will face fines of up to £130 in London and £70 elsewhere if they're caught parking in cycle lanes

Cyclists will also be able to send footage to a special police unit to report dangerous driving captured on their helmet cameras

Within the unit the DfT will appoint a cycling and walking champion to ensure new policies meet the needs of all road users across the UK.

There will also be a review of the Highway Code to consider its guidance about how drivers should behave in relation to vulnerable road users and councils will be encouraged to spend 15 per cent of their local transport budget to improve walking and cycling numbers in their areas.

Announcing the new measures, Mr Norman said: 'We want to improve air quality, encourage healthy exercise, reduce obesity and boost our high streets and economic productivity. That means more support for cycling and walking, and that's why these new measures are designed to deliver.'

An alliance of leading walking and cycling organisations gave its support to the proposed shake-up of the Highway Code but expressed frustration that the overall strategy did not place more emphasis on speed reduction in a bid to make roads safer.

Some 18,220 cyclists were injured on British roads last year, with 101 killed.

Cycling UK chief executive Paul Tuohy said: 'Lowering vehicle speeds around people walking, cycling and horse riding doesn't just reduce the danger to them, but also their perception of the danger.

'While the DfT's proposals for amendments to the Highway Code will help save lives, ignoring the threat and dangers of speeding is disappointing.'

Some 18,220 cyclists were injured on British roads last year, with 101 being killed

Roads minister Jesse Norman said the new rules would help to to improve air quality, encourage healthy exercise, reduce obesity and boost the high street and economic productivity

Janet Connor, the AA’s director of insurance, added: 'Data is king in the event of a collision and dash cam footage provides proper, reliable evidence that can establish fault.

'What’s more, it can and, based on the Operation Snap evidence does, lead to prosecution of dangerous drivers.

'So government funding to enable police to analyse dash cam evidence submitted by the public, whether from a dash-cams, cyclists’ helmet-cams or smartphone footage is to be welcomed it helps to improve road safety and the North Wales police initiative suggests that it does.

'Similarly, dash-cam evidence submitted to insurance companies can be decisive in ensuring that fault can be properly attributed where otherwise, circumstantial evidence and witness statements may suggest a different outcome.'

Earlier this year, the DfT launched a consultation to look into whether a new offence equivalent to causing death by careless or dangerous driving should be introduced for dangerous cyclists, after Kim Briggs died when Charlie Alliston crashed into her on a bike with no front brakes.

The consultation closed earlier this month and officials are analysing the responses.

====== 539 ========

BUILDING SOCIETIES LOOK SET TO OFFER 100% MORTGAGES

A decade on from the financial crisis and mortgage lenders could be about to return to offering borrowers 100 per cent loan-to-value mortgages.

In a report on first-time buyers, the Building Societies Association urged its members to 'revisit' the case for lending to mortgage borrowers who do not have a deposit.

The trade body branded the taboo around 100 per cent mortgages 'arbitrary', saying modern technology could help to assess how risky each borrower is before lending.

'Most underwriters in the sector who we spoke to are not philosophically averse to lending 100 per cent,' the BSA report said.

The BSA urged building societies to explore giving mortgages to borrowers without a deposit

A move back to lending at 100 per cent loan-to-value, where the lender puts up the entire purchase price of the property and the borrower pays just stamp duty, valuation, mortgage and legal costs, might not be as radical as it sounds.

Many mortgage lenders already offer products which don't require a deposit, instead asking borrowers for some other form of collateral, such as a family member's home or savings.

But the BSA said it expects this to change as building societies 'push harder' in the direction of true 100 per cent loan-to-value mortgages, the like of which has not been seen since the financial crash.

Didn't 100% mortgages cause the crash?

The memory of Northern Rock and the financial crisis still lingers when it comes to the issue of no-deposit mortgages - though it's worth bearing in mind the real horrors in the run up to the credit crunch were mortgages at 125 per cent of the value of the property.

The danger with this type of deal is that if house prices drop, the borrower can go into negative equity, meaning they owe the bank more than the house is actually worth.

What do mortgage brokers think? Nick Morrey of broker John Charcol Nick Morrey of mortgage broker John Charcol said: 'Buyers with relatively restrictive options such as Help to Buy may welcome the opportunity to buy a property that is 100 per cent theirs. 'That said there is risk with 100 per cent lending especially if property prices fall so lenders do have to have robust underwriting procedures to make sure that they are still lending responsibly to the right people in the right circumstances. 'Lastly, the group of lenders being touted to offer such products are the building societies – most of whom are very well capitalised so should be able to withstand the financial shocks that the regulators have been preparing them for over years since the credit crunch. 'Therefore the risk to the stability of the system should be less than people fear.'

That isn't necessarily an issue while the borrower lives there, but it becomes one if they need to remortgage or want to move, or if they are unable to keep up with repayments and the lender takes possession of the property.

For lenders, if too many borrowers fall into negative equity, it can quickly become a real problem.

But the BSA believes that the 100 per cent mortgage's reputation for being a dangerous deal is unwarranted.

In the years following the crash lenders have pushed their LTVs back up, with many on the market now routinely offering deals at 95 per cent at incredibly low rates of interest.

The BSA report argues lenders can go one step further and offer loans with no deposit.

'Let us take the case of a borrower wanting a 95 per cent LTV loan who had recently taken out a car loan on credit,' it said.

'As long as there was sufficient affordability, then most lenders would accept that loan, assuming the borrowers’ saved funds were used as the deposit.

'On the other hand, if that borrower had used the saved deposit for the car and therefore asked for a 100 per cent LTV loan, the application would be rejected.

'The credit position is fundamentally the same, but the stance of lenders would be quite different.'

The BSA said it expects more building societies to introduce these types of deal in the future.

'Other lenders have developed products in which a collateral charge is taken over parents’ property. This includes about a third of the building societies that participated in the BSA member survey,' said the report.

'Whilst this is far from being a universal practice among building societies, a small and growing number are prepared to offer this facility.'

In the years following the financial crash lenders have pushed their loan-to-values back up

Don't 100 per cent mortgages already exist?

In the immediate aftermath of the credit crunch, lenders stopped offering high LTV mortgages after thousands of borrowers fell into negative equity and were left owing the bank more than the value of their home.

But in the past couple of years, some smaller lenders have tentatively come back to market with a growing number of what appear to be 100 per cent mortgages now available.

These deals aren't quite deposit free mortgages in the traditional sense. They tend to use the buyer's family's home or savings as a form of security.

Earlier this year the Post Office launched its 'family-link' mortgage, which works by giving the first-time buyer a 90 per cent loan-to-value mortgage secured against the property they're buying, plus an interest-free five-year loan secured on a close relative or parent's home.

However, the parental home needs to be mortgage-free for the buyer to be eligible.

Nationwide also offers a family mortgage scheme but it works slightly differently.

Homeowners who currently have a Nationwide mortgage can apply to borrow more and then gift the money to a relative to use as a cash deposit for their own purchase.

However, both borrowers must get their mortgage from Nationwide in order to qualify and it is restricted to first-time buyers.

Aldermore Bank, Harpenden Building Society, the Tipton, and Family Building Society also offer versions of a family mortgage.

There's also the option of the family offset deals, which allow family members to put their savings into an account connected to the mortgage. The savings are offset against the loan, which can be used either to reduce interest payments or shorten the length of the loan.

There are some deals out there that already let you borrow without a deposit, but with a catch

While the mortgage holder can't get at the money, it does mean that the family's savings will be locked away for a period of time, until the borrower has paid down some of the loan.

Barclays offers a Family Springboard mortgage which allows borrowers to take a 100 per cent loan-to-value loan if family or loved ones can provide 10 per cent of the property's price, in cash held with the bank, as security.

The family member then gets their savings back after three years with interest as long as the homebuyer keeps up with repayments.

Is a 95% mortgage a safer option?

It is already possible to buy a home without raising a big deposit, if you take a 95 per cent mortgage.

With one of these deals, buyers able to pass mortgage affordability tests could put down a 5 per cent deposit of £10,000 to buy a £200,000 home - and with more lenders offering these products, rates are becoming more competitive.

Andrew Montlake of mortgage broker Coreco

Andrew Montlake, of mortgage broker Coreco, said: 'I don’t believe that 100 per cent LTV mortgages are the answer to any of the issues facing borrowers at the moment, especially given the current environment.

'It would be a step backwards to look at these type of mortgages now and we would always like to see borrowers have some skin in the game. Having at least a 5 per cent deposit within a property is a good starting point.

'There is much more work to do around increasing and improving the number of 95 per cent LTV mortgages first, especially taking into account the fact that Help to Buy should finally come to an end in a few years’ time.'

A 95 per cent mortgage carries its own set of risks. A 5 per cent deposit is not much of a buffer against negative equity - and if house prices fall you may end up owing more to the lender than your house is worth.

Bigger deposits are always preferable as they usually secure lower rates for the homeowner.

The lower the rate, the smaller the monthly repayment, meaning you can save yourself thousands of pounds in interest charges over the years.

> Click here to use This is Money and L&Cs mortgage finder tool

> Click here to read our guide to 95 per cent mortgages

====== 540 ========

VW CALIFORNIA REVIEW: A 2,100 MILE FAMILY ROAD TRIP IN THE CAMPERVAN

Mention a Volkswagen campervan and most will think of the iconic buses made over the three decades to 1979, but while it may be considerably more modern the VW California keeps the spirit alive.

The VW California remains true to the campervan concept of being able to cart a family of four around and provide a place for them to eat and sleep. VW promotes it as an alternative to the family car that’s ready for an adventure any time.

But what’s that like in real life? To put the VW California to the test, Simon Lambert and his family headed off on a 2,100 mile road trip, zig-zagging down through France and back.

Hotel California: VW's campervan can double up as a family car and a vehicle for adventure

There’s a lot of love for the Volkswagen campervan.

On occasion, I’ve felt some of that over the past 15 years, when I’ve been lucky enough to borrow my father-in-law’s 1974 bay window VW Type 2 camper – a classic car that more than passes the test of ‘do strangers come up and talk to you about it?’

Yet, while I love that van, I probably wouldn’t drive to the South of France in it.

The VW California is the modern-day version of Volkswagen’s iconic campervan and while it doesn’t attract the same level of interest, it's more reliable than a classic and has considerably more power and extra mod cons.

So, in theory, it’s a much more trustworthy grand tour companion.

What the California shares with its predecessors over almost seven decades of VW campervans, is the tricks up its sleeve that enable a van with a footprint no bigger than a large saloon car or SUV to double up as a home on wheels.

It was on our ferry to Calais that the first distinct advantage of driving your holiday accommodation kicked in.

We had left London early to catch the 10.15am boat to France, with a plan to drive an hour or so to Etaples, and enjoy a family afternoon at the beach in nearby Le Touquet, before camping out that night.

But for one of the few days in this year’s glorious summer, the weather was not playing ball. It was grey, drizzly and forecast to deteriorate - not the best beach afternoon.

Yet, further into France the forecast was for a hot sunny day and clear blue skies.

So, we made the kind of decision you can make with a campervan but not a hotel booking. A quick Google turned up a campsite with a swimming pool, just north of Reims, so we changed our plans and drove further into France and the sunshine.

Just over two hours later, we had pitched up on a grassy sun-drenched campsite, where it was time for the novelty of setting up the van for the first time.

On the beach: The California is promoted by VW as always ready for adventure, whether by the sea, or out in the countryside

The tricks up the California’s sleeve

The VW California is available in two versions, the Beach and the Ocean. We were in the latter, which comes with a kitchen for added self-sufficiency.

Both Beach and Ocean have one double bed downstairs and another upstairs in the pop-up roof, which rises to create a thick canvas tented area.

The roof is hinged at the back and a touch of a button raises it in about 30 seconds to create a spacious triangular top tent. It’s high enough at the front that it doesn’t feel claustrophobic, with windows in the thick canvas sides - and you climb in through a hatch above the front seats.

It took all of about 15 seconds, before our two girls, aged 7 and 5, were up in the roof like a shot. It was clear who would be sleeping where in this van

It took all of about 15 seconds, before our two girls, aged 7 and 5, were up in the roof like a shot.

It was clear who would be sleeping where in this van.

Downstairs in the Ocean, you lose a third of the width of the rear bench to accommodate a sideboard with lifting glass tops, under which are a deep fridge, double gas burner cooker and a sink with taps fed from the van’s water tank. Below those are sliding door cupboards and at the rear are tall wardrobe cupboards.

The bench folds down to create the bed - narrower than the Beach’s, but still with plenty of room for two adults if they're happy to be a bit cosy.

Sliding the rear bench back, gives a big expanse of floor area and a table slides out from the side of the cupboard. If you so desire, the front seats twist round, so that four people can sit round this.

But we’d taken the trouble to drive into glorious weather, so lunch outside was the order of the day. That meant taking out the picnic table smartly stashed in the California’s sliding door and unzipping the tailgate’s canvas base to release the two fold-out chairs even more cleverly hidden there.

Fancy some shade? An awning also winds out from the van’s roof, which stretches about two metres out by two-thirds of the van’s length.

California dreaming: Pitch up and the VW California can switch from driving to home mode. The pop-up roof tent houses a second double bed, while a picnic table and chairs are stashed in the sliding door and tailgate.

Buying a VW California VW has been factory building Californias now for 30 years, and it stays true to the ethos of the originally coachbuilt campervans, much-loved since the 1950s. Both then and now, the concept is that a relatively compact van can pack in a place to sleep, eat and live - opening up a world of adventure. That doesn’t come cheap though. The Beach version starts at £43,295 on the road, for a 2.0 litre 150PS manual petrol, while the same engine and manual gearbox in an Ocean version, is £53,267. A balance of more power and fuel economy can be had with a 2.0 litre turbodiesel with 204PS and 7-speed automatic gearbox at £59,345. Our van was a limited run Ocean Edition, which with its few options added would set a buyer back £65,879. Those are luxury motoring numbers, but balanced against that the California packs in a lot of versatility and holds its value very well – losing less than 15 per cent of its value over three years, according to Cap HPI.

Inside the VW California and out on the road

The California makes a good impression.

It might be based on a workman’s VW Transporter van, but I would argue this T6 version is the most handsome version since the classic T2s ceased production at the end of the 1970s.

Climb in and it feels distinctly unvanlike. The interior is nicely fitted out with big comfortable captain’s seats in the front and a well laid out dash, which in our van had a black piano finish that wouldn’t look out of place in a VW car.

Ride captain ride: The driver and passenger sit high up in the VW California in comfortable chairs that give a commanding view of the road

As a driver, you ride high and comfortable, but spoiled by modern day cars I found the steering wheel didn’t quite adjust enough.

The rear bench is fairly flat and utilitarian, but this is necessary for when it doubles as a bed with the fold out mattress on top.

It is comfortable enough though and slides to give the choice between more boot and acres of floor space.

With the van all packed up on the second morning – a reversal of the learning curve involved in setting it all out - it was time to push on to our next destination, the renowned wine town of Chablis.

A motorway run was followed by the opportunity to put the California through its paces on some better routes, barrelling along the sweeping country roads as you enter Northern Burgundy.

With the sun out, music on and good roads, the California was a surprisingly enjoyable companion.

It won’t win any drag races - reaching 60mph from standstill in 11 seconds - but it has a top speed of 121mph and plenty of mid-range power for accelerating onto the motorway and overtaking

Yes, the California wallows a bit in the bends – remember it is a van – but get into the swing of things and it’s fun to drive, with the torquey diesel engine powering its near 3 tonne weight out of the corners.

Nonetheless, we were glad to reach Chablis and its pretty riverbank campsite before too much of the day was lost to driving.

The VW California Ocean comes with a fridge, double gas burner cooker, and sink, with lifting sideboard lids above and cupboards below, but that means the rear bench only seats two

Sweet dreams: The rear bench in the VW California folds down to create a double bed, which is narrower in the Ocean due to the cupboards and kitchen down the side

Setting up the van that second afternoon was quicker. And we got marginally better at it with every day that passed of the trip, getting into the swing of what you need to do for a less painful arrival and departure.

The key to keeping life on the road as stress-free as possible in the California was to pack stuff into plenty of smaller bags.

This makes it easier to find a place for everything, to dig it out when you need it without uprooting all your luggage, and reshuffle the van to go from driving mode to living mode and then sleeping mode.

Fortunately, the California is a bit of a Tardis. I’d been mildly worried about whether we’d fit everything in before the trip - eyeing up VW Transporters on the street and thinking that ‘they don’t actually look that big’.

Yet, it turned out that the cupboards and side wardrobe space in the van hold much more than you’d think – and there is a decent-sized space under the bedframe behind the rear bench.

Slide the rear bench forwards and you can expand the boot space, while there’s extra room if you pile things on top of the mattress behind the back seats. But you must remember that come night time you’ll need to turn all this into a bedroom and fit your stuff somewhere while you sleep.

In the end, we easily fitted four small suitcases of clothes, bedding, cooking stuff, food, kids books and toys, and even my inflatable canoe, pump and paddles into the van.

Wild thing: VW promotes the California with enticing shots of vans parked by the beach and out in the open, so a night's wild camping was called for to test this out.

