Point one: on Gordon Taylor.

You forgot that he is also grossly overpaid. Observer General, Ireland.

No, I didn’t. I just don’t think it is anywhere near the most important thing about this issue and Taylor’s suitability to continue leading the players’ union. Everyone goes on about Taylor’s salary, but if he had placed the Professional Footballers Association at the forefront of research and campaigning around dementia issues, if he had led his organisation in responding to the abuse scandal when it first surfaced more than two decades ago, if the PFA had been a pioneering, campaigning group on issues that matter, helping to efficiently finance Kick It Out and other important bodies in football, then he would be worth his salary. Football is a wealthy business and people at the top will be rewarded commensurately. I have no problem with that, as long as the work merits it. This leads me to…

Point two: Richard Scudamore.

Scudamore has done a very good job in giving the Premier League its financial clout, especially compared to its counterparts across Europe – but it’s a job he already got handsomely paid for, with bonuses, so there is no justification. I’m extremely disappointed you’ve tried to justify something that’s simply appalling. CranebirdSandbank, Wirral.

Read the column again. I deliberately stayed out of whether the payment is justified or not. Instead, I thought it was more interesting to explain why Scudamore got it, through the eyes of the club owners and how they regard him. You must have missed that part which is a pity, as it formed the entire piece.

Scudamore is clearly a superb operator in his field, as sickening as this whip round was, I totally understand why they would keep him sweet. For each club, £250,000 is loose change considering what he has done for them. I do think he has been lucky because it’s not really that hard to sell the Sergio Aguero moment in 2012 or the sporting miracle of Leicester in 2016 – particularly against a poor level of competition from the other main European leagues, that have become predictable as far as title races go. Moses42, Stoke-on-Trent.

Yes, but had Scudamore not kept a tight rein on the demands of the elite, and shared money as evenly as he could throughout the league, neither of the high points you mention would have been possible. If Manchester City had been hampered by stricter financial fair play regulations they would never have got to the summit and opened out the competition – and if Scudamore hadn’t spread such a magnificent bounty throughout the league, Leicester would never have attracted the investment that led to their title win. So he didn’t get lucky. He got the league his foresight deserved.

Scudamore is worth every penny. Under his stewardship he fought against the greed of the big three, which helped it become a big six and ended up delivering a multi-billion pound TV deal. That he stopped the Premier League becoming a closed shop is impressive, that he did it without ruffling the feathers of the country's biggest clubs means he deserves everything he gets. He saw the big picture when all others were mired in self interest. Fans should remember this the next time they’re calling for their club to buy a £50m player. Nick, Aylesbury.

How did he fight against the big three? The others invested heavily in their squads. How was that down to him? Sully78, Exeter.

Yes, Sully, but as Nick says the reason the clubs could invest in their squads was because the league gave them the platform to do so; a league that was acting on Scudamore’s instincts. Our league could easily have been a two-team closed shop had the establishment elite got their way, as happened in Europe. Scudamore’s successor needs to have equivalent resolve.

Richard Scudamore didn't get lucky, he got the league his foresight deserved

How does a consultancy role stop Scudamore from popping up in La Liga, Martin? He obviously wouldn’t pass on confidential information because that’s akin to industrial espionage. I know plenty of consultants who work within specific industries without conflict of interest. They consult with direct competitors, say, to restructure middle management, and they’re sought after because their integrity is their trademark. Chris, Australia.

Yes, and I know freelances with contracts that protect the integrity of a major client in a specific area. A radio presenter may be able to do other media work for instance, but cannot present a radio show for a second station. I imagine Scudamore has freedom to consult in other areas of sport, but cannot operate for a rival within football. I would certainly have insisted on that for £5m.

Point three: anyone fancy a punt?

A friend once worked for an international spread betting company. They would regularly take bets from a former professional sportsman in the United States on the sport in which he was involved. This person had a remarkable success record with his bets despite some being at very long odds. The assumption was that he had inside knowledge. However the spread betting company did not report him and happily took his bets, using that knowledge to adjust their book so they would benefit from his knowledge, too. Very hypocritical. NeilG1, Northwood.

But smart, too. I’m told bet365 have a similar policy. Not by allowing bets from sportsman insiders, but by taking bets from good punters that can’t get on with their rivals. Those with a winning track record, who place big bets, often ante-post. By being bold and taking these bets, they get an early feel for the market, spot trends from some weeks out and adjust their prices accordingly. The punters are happy, bet365’s odds-setters are well-informed – it makes sense. People think I’m against bookmakers. I’m not against bookmakers. I’m against bookmakers that take us all for mugs and don’t like laying serious bets.

So basically you can only really bet if you’re the mug punter the bookies want and you’re a loser. I knew they would stop you betting if you started to win but I did not know they stopped you putting money on at good odds; in my naivety I thought if you saw odds of 25/1 you could put a £100 on it. The more I learn about the betting industry the more I realise they are there to extract money from mugs and will do all they can to stop you winning. LittleHelper, Lincoln.

Well, it’s a business, yes – so they are not in the game to lose. But, without doubt, one of the problems here is that we have a gambling culture, yet people are not informed about gambling. Hence your presumption that bookmakers would not limit your stake on a 25/1 shot. The story in The Sun about the £10,000 bet on a move to Inter Milan supposedly placed by Daniel Sturridge’s cousin talked about odds of 1.7/1 netting a ‘payout’ of £27,000. How can it pay £27,000 when £10,000 is the punter’s own money? It pays £17,000; returns £27,000. This is what I mean about there not being an understanding of gambling. And yet this culture is growing and growing – and is encouraged everywhere.

There was a story in The Sun about a bet being placed on Daniel Sturridge joining Inter Milan

Point four: on international relations.

Interesting point about allowing people to get carried away and revelling in victory. It has been completely over the top here about Ireland beating the All Blacks and rightly so. England are shot down if they dare to dream. Strange cultural difference. Nawkir, Dublin.

I agree. I find it incredible after Sunday how many people were calling the UEFA Nations League game a friendly and diminishing its significance when, before it began, the expectation of England’s inevitable humiliation by Spain and Croatia was taken as a sign our footballers are not up to much. So if England win, it’s meaningless; if they lose, it’s meaningful. I didn’t hear anyone decrying Ireland versus the All Blacks or saying we should wait until the Rugby World Cup for them to meet in a proper competitive fixture. Now, anyone claiming that would be a fool, of course, because 90 per cent of rugby internationals – all bar the ones played as training exercises directly before World Cups – are as competitive as any tournament meeting. Yet it is this sort of logic that is thrown at England’s footballers, by people calling the Croatia match a friendly. Look at any of the games in England’s League A group; none of them seemed friendly to me.

Point five: a numbers game.

England’s women footballers are ranked third in the world – remind me where the men are again? They are also ranked third in the world for cricket, remind me where are the men again? Red-arrow Magnet, United Kingdom.

Well, in football the men are fifth, in a considerably more competitive arena. This places them ahead, currently, of Spain, Germany, Holland, Argentina and Italy. In cricket, we can only compare the one-day rankings because there are no rankings for women’s Test cricket. So the men are number one. Oh dear. No wonder you’re a red arrow magnet – you’re a complete tube. And so’s this. Until next time.

====== 2097 ========

PFA CHIEF EXECUTIVE GORDON TAYLOR SHOULD HAVE CALLED AN ELECTION

Calling for an independent review of the PFA is all well and good but Gordon Taylor's open letter does not go far enough.

He says the PFA has 'taken the time to think carefully about what is in the best interests of our organisation and our members'.

If he really wants to act in the best interests of his members, he should at the very least have called an election. The only person this review process serves is Gordon Taylor. All he has done is buy himself more time at the top of his organisation.

Gordon Taylor calling for an independent review of the PFA just gives him more time at the top

He says in his letter that he is happy to defend the PFA's record in areas including mental health, diversity and player welfare. I challenge you to find one former player or family member affected by dementia who is satisfied with what their union boss has done on this issue.

If he is indeed adamant that criticism should be addressed head on, then why not stand for re-election and let his members be the judge?

There is no guarantee that a review will achieve the modernisation that this organisation badly needs.

We do not know who the independent QC will be or how they will be chosen.

Why doesn't the chief executive stand for re-election and let his members be the judge?

Most concerning is the section of Taylor's letter which reads: 'We will work closely with both the board of trustees and management committee to finalise the parameters and timeline of the review.'

How can this review be truly independent if Taylor himself has input into what it can look at?

Reviews are expensive and can take several years to complete. Even when it does finally report, it may not result in an election.

Until Gordon Taylor is able to be challenged in an open and democratic election, there is little hope of change.

====== 2098 ========

ENGLAND ARE SHOWING WAYNE ROONEY'S 'JEALOUS GUYS' HOW IT'S DONE

Wayne Rooney has said some of his former England team-mates are jealous at the success Gareth Southgate is having with this team. They should be.

This exciting young team are showing them how it should be done. The likes of Sven Goran Eriksson, Fabio Capello and Roy Hodgson had stronger squads at their disposal but the progress under Southgate has only highlighted how much those England sides underachieved.

Gone are the club rivalries that divided England camps.

Gareth Southgate celebrates with his players following England's victory over Croatia

Wayne Rooney said some of his old England team-mates are jealous of the new crop's success

When I went away on international duty, the Manchester United players would always sit apart from the rest of the group. Now there is a feeling of togetherness. Southgate’s team are like a club side — every player bursting with pride for each other and the badge.

Players are being picked on form, not reputation.

It doesn’t matter who you play for — if you’re good enough, you have a chance. This approach has allowed Ben Chilwell, Joe Gomez, Ross Barkley and Jadon Sancho to break into a team who reached the World Cup semi-finals.

Harry Kane celebrates after scoring the winning goal in the closing stages of the match

What pleased me most about Sunday’s win is that it finally put to bed the nonsense that England fluked their way to the last four in Russia.

They have now beaten the World Cup finalists and a strong Spain side away from home.

I am immensely proud of what Southgate has achieved. Wembley was rocking on Sunday. It was probably the best atmosphere the ground has seen since Euro 96.

This side have made the country fall in love with its national team once more.

====== 2099 ========

MARTIN ALLEN – LOOKING FOR A LITTLE BIT OF BELGRADE... A JOURNEY THAT SEEMS USEFUL

A journey to Belgrade I once took as a player has stuck in my mind through my 10 years in management and it seems more relevant to me at the moment than it ever did.

It was 1984 and I was 19, breaking through in the QPR team managed by Alan Mullery. We were playing Partizan Belgrade in the UEFA Cup and trained at a local school on a misty night.

There was a group of about 30 young kids nearby, some of them little more than 10. For an hour, they juggled footballs — left foot, right foot — and did technical drills, driving the ball back and forth between each other. It made our work look quite ordinary.

Chesterfield boss Martin Allen writes exclusively for Sportsmail in the Verdict each Monday

We discovered soon enough that you don’t need fancy facilities to succeed. We’d beaten Partizan 6-2 in London but they weren’t finished. They won 4-0 and we were out on away goals.

Now I find myself looking for the same kind of obsession in the players at my club — and at Chesterfield we need it, because having had to cut the wage bill by £21,000 a week we’re looking for our own talent. It’s that Belgrade factor I’m always searching for.

It’s a tense time for the young people who are second-year academy players because they’re approaching the last six months of the time available to convince us to keep them on. It’s brutal.

Back at QPR they introduced us to what they called the ‘step-up’ routine — a detailed physical programme designed to improve our muscularity — which I used when I was manager at Gillingham five years ago and have introduced at Chesterfield. My player-coach Michael Nelson, who was an apprentice at Portsmouth when I was assistant manager there, has been working on it with them.

It was 1984 and I was 19, breaking through in the QPR team managed by Alan Mullery

We’re at the stage now of looking very closely at friendlies to see who is pushing on.

Several emerged with credit last week from a friendly against Sheffield FC — neighbours of ours from the eighth tier — in front of a few dozen at their ground in Dronfield.

Levi Amantchi, 17, who came through the Wallsend Boys Club, and who scored a half-hour hat-trick in the FA Youth Cup against the same opponents a few months back. Jack Holmes, a midfielder who was released by Sheffield United but who also has something about him. There were others.

You develop a sixth sense about the ones who will succeed. The ones who’ve come through at other clubs I’ve managed — like Bradley Dack at Gillingham, Darius Henderson at Reading, DJ Campbell at Brentford and Haydn Hollis at Notts County — have all looked at me like I’m mad when I talk about that night in Belgrade. But they all shared the same borderline obsession with the game.

Let this draw to an end . . .

Our eighth consecutive league draw on Saturday. I’ve not known a sequence like that. It was goalless against Havant and Waterlooville and I can’t remember a more frustrating time.

In the second half, we hit the bar and had one cleared off the line. We’ve not lost since September, though it’s hard to take consolation. We’re better than this sequence suggests.

Save small dressing rooms!

The FA have introduced new rules about dressing-room sizes and you keep hearing the words ‘18 square metres’. This is apparently the all-important dimension because if your dressing rooms aren’t that big you get relegated. We’re fine at Chesterfield.

But I’ve heard of a club who are 57cm short in one changing room and a metre in another. I think smaller dressing rooms are part of the challenge when you’re facing smaller clubs, some of whom don’t have a squad bigger than 12 players.

I’m not expecting a mansion at Billericay in the FA Cup on Tuesday. But good on them if they can get a competitive edge out of it.

Chesterfield will play Grimsby Town in the FA Cup second round should they beat Billericay

A tough week for the local beat

It’s been a difficult week for the people on our local paper, the Derbyshire Times. I don’t know the whole story but the paper’s owners have been in financial trouble and there’s been a sale. The title’s future is stable, apparently, and that’s good news because I have the highest respect for their journalists.

They don’t hold back but they go the extra yard to understand the club and how it works. They make phone calls, are rigorous but fair. That’s priceless for a town like ours.

Martin Allen was talking to Ian Herbert.

====== 2100 ========

TOP SPIN AT THE TEST: ENGLAND'S SEAMERS DIDN'T TAKE A SINGLE WICKET FOR THE FIRST TIME IN 45 YEARS

Meanwhile, England have now won their last three Tests in Sri Lanka

England clinched a series victory over Sri Lanka on Sunday morning after taking the final three minutes in little over half an hour.

Moeen Ali took the first two wickets before his spin partner Jack Leach chipped in with the third.

Here, LAWRENCE BOOTH runs the rule over the best of the action.

England clinched a series victory over Sri Lanka on Sunday morning after taking three wickets

England's spinners have now taken 35 of the 38 wickets claimed by their bowlers in this series - there have also been two Sri Lankan run-outs.

Pallekele was first time since Mumbai in 2012-13, when Graeme Swann and Monty Panesar ran amok, that England's slow bowlers have claimed 19 wickets in a Test.

And you have to go back to Karachi in 1972-73 for the last Test in which an England seamer didn't take a wicket.

You have to go back to 1972-73 for the last Test in which an England seamer didn't take a wicket

England have now won their last three Tests in Sri Lanka, having won the second Test in Colombo in 2011-12. With the exception of trips to Bangladesh, it was the first time they have won three in a row in an Asian country since the 1976-77 visit to India, when Tony Greig's side won 3-1.

After two nightmare winters with the ball, Moeen Ali suddenly looks like a potent weapon in England's armoury. In India in 2016-17, he managed 10 wickets at 64 apiece, and during the 2017-18 Ashes it was even worse: five at 115. But his 14 wickets in the first two Tests against Sri Lanka have cost just 21, and his career average of 37 is the lowest it has been for three years.

Moeen Ali's career average of 37 is the lowest it has been for three years

Joe Root's team will finish the series second in the Test rankings, whatever the result of the last game, in Colombo. They were third at the start, but will leapfrog South Africa. Only India lie ahead of them.

====== 2101 ========

HEALTH: I’M WORRIED MY SCAR WON’T FADE

I suffered facial injuries in a car crash a year ago that have left a noticeable scar across my cheek. Every time I look in the mirror it reminds me of the accident and I have started to avoid some social events because I feel self-conscious when people stare. I have heard that silicone creams may help improve its appearance but worry that it’s too late for it to make a difference now. What do you suggest?

I’m so sorry to hear about your accident. Scars can be hard to come to terms with, particularly if they are on the face or have traumatic associations. It’s not unusual to have flashbacks of the incident in which they occurred and it can be hard to move on.

The process of adjustment often leads to feelings of loss, anger, embarrassment and depression. It’s not unusual to avoid social contact, but this can create a vicious cycle of withdrawal and loneliness. Cognitive behavioural therapy-based counselling and using mindfulness techniques can be useful.

Princess Eugenie proudly showed the scar on her back from spinal surgery when she was 12. ‘You can change the way beauty is, and you can show people your scars. I think it’s really special to stand up for that,’ she said

In social situations, the charity Saving Faces says some people find it helps if they make a brief comment or even a joke to acknowledge their scars, then change the subject. One of my sons had a pronounced Harry-Potter like zigzag scar across his forehead after a fall. At first he covered it with his hair before he decided to claim it was his wizard’s badge of honour.

Remember, you are not alone – there are 66,000 people living in the UK with disfigurements such as burns and facial scars from accidents. It can help to meet with others in a similar situation, which you can do through the charity Changing Faces (changingfaces.org.uk). It also offers confidential advice on 0300 012 0275.

Attitudes are changing, however. Walking down the aisle in her low-backed wedding dress last month, Princess Eugenie, right, proudly showed the scar on her back from spinal surgery when she was 12. ‘You can change the way beauty is, and you can show people your scars. I think it’s really special to stand up for that,’ she said.

To find out whether silicone is effective as a topical treatment, I asked Miss Sherina Balaratnam, surgeon and medical director of S-Thetics Clinic in Buckinghamshire, who often treats facial scarring. She explained that silicone works by increasing hydration levels in the healing scar and reduces excessive collagen production, which occurs in unsightly scars. This leads to a softer, flatter and better-coloured scar.

Although the earlier you start the better, she says you can still see improvements when treating a scar 12 to 18 months on. ‘I advise patients to massage scars using firm pressure to reduce the likelihood of thick, red and raised scars forming – known as keloid scars. Silicone allows the skin to breathe and reduces itching and discomfort. It can also be used on sensitive skin and on children,’ she says.

Sherina recommends the following products for treating facial scars at home:

recommends the following products for treating facial scars at home: Dermatix Silicone Gel (£29.99, boots.com).

(£29.99, boots.com). ScarAway Silicone Scar Sheets (£29.39, amazon.co.uk): these are like a plaster.

(£29.39, amazon.co.uk): these are like a plaster. IS Clinical Sheald Recovery Balm (£41.99, facethefuture.co.uk). ‘This potent scar recovery balm is a pharmaceutical-grade botanical containing antioxidants, kava kava [a plant extract with anaesthetic properties] and ceramides [which maintain and improve the skin’s barrier] to decrease inflammation and soften and hydrate dry, sensitive skin. This will help to minimise scar formation and reduce redness and irritation.’

Finally, adds Sherina, use sun protection as it ‘is vital for scars during their healing phase to help reduce pigmentation or discoloration’. Try Heliocare Sunscreen SPF 50 Cream (£18, amazon.co.uk).

This week's reading

Three Things About Elsie by psychiatrist-turned-novelist Joanna Cannon. A delightful novel giving a touching and quirky insight into ageing and dementia.

To order a copy for £6.39 (a 20 per cent discount) until 2 December, go to mailshop.co.uk/books or call 0844 571 0640; p&p is free on orders over £15

====== 2102 ========

WILDER REFLECTS ON UPBRINGING AS HE PREPARES TO FACE TYSON FURY

It is late in the evening and the headlights of the cars rumbling across the bridge over the Black Warrior River between Tuscaloosa and Northport dance and dip in the Alabama darkness.

A mile away, past the crossroads of shops and restaurants in downtown Northport, past the Bart Mart on the corner, 30th Avenue opens up into a parking lot, bordered on one side by a long, low-slung building.

At the far end, cars cluster around the entrance to the Skyy Boxing gym. Inside, Deontay Wilder, WBC heavyweight champion, is leaning back in a low chair in a small office.

Deontay Wilder insists he is the happiest he has ever been ahead of facing Tyson Fury

Wilder told Sportsmail's Oliver Holt that he is the type of person that can be happy for others

His plain white vest is drenched in sweat because he has just finished 10 rounds of sparring but he is too busy talking to care.

Every so often one of his team opens the door and looks at him to see if he wants to leave. 'We good,' the Bronze Bomber says each time, and carries on.

His defence against Tyson Fury at the Staples Center in Los Angeles is only two weeks away and Wilder is saying he is the happiest he has been.

The boxer who walks through his public life yelling his catchphrase 'Bomb Zquad' at the top of his voice is gone for a short time, but his grandmother was a pastor and his father is a preacher and there is still evangelism in the lilt of his words.

The 33-year-old states he has things money can't buy, such as happiness and great health

'The things I have, money can't buy,' he says. 'I have happiness, peace, love and great health. I'm the type of person who can be happy for others. I can be happy for someone who is doing better than I am and that's rare to find.

'Most people will be happy for you until you are doing better than them but I am a loving person and I wish everyone well.

'If you knew who I really was you'd love me. You'd love me to death. People only get the perspective of me in the ring but that is not enough to know me. I can't have girls as friends or some guys as friends, because people always fall in love with me. They always do.'

Later that night, Jay Deas is sitting in the Dreamland BBQ restaurant on Bridge Avenue where Wilder says they serve the best ribs in Alabama. 'Make sure you have the banana pudding, too,' says Wilder. 'It's going to save your life.'

Wilder says that he didn't go looking for trouble as a youngster but that it always found him

Deas, a one-time TV reporter and the man who sets the open tone for Wilder's camps, has been his trainer since the day 13 years ago when Wilder, a promising basketball player, walked into his gym, desperate to make it as a boxer so he could pay the medical bills for the treatment he needed for his baby daughter Naieya, who had been born with spina bifida.

'I'll tell you why I called it Skyy Boxing,' Deas says. 'We had this fighter once called Billy Outley. He won his first fight because he got knocked down time after time after time and kept getting back up and in the end his opponent got so mad he started beating on him while he was down and got disqualified.

'Anyway, Billy loved football and one time I took him to a game. It was his first game and he looked up at the corporate boxes and asked me what they were. I told him they were the sky boxes. "Sky Box," Billy said. "That's where you want to be."

'And I thought: "Yes, that's our name." We added an extra "y" because I thought that would get us round copyright issues.'

Wilder, 33, didn't start his fight career at Skyy Boxing, though. Not really. The next day, he says that if I want to know more about him I should go and check out the house where he grew up as one of six siblings on the West Side of Tuscaloosa.

Wilder explains that he had to be tough when he was growing up to avoid being walked over

He still knows the address off by heart. '3811 22nd Place, Tuscaloosa, Alabama, 35405,' he says, smiling. 'West Sssside,' he shouts with relish, as if it's a memory of another world. I ask him if it was a happy childhood. 'It was a life,' he says.

I find 22nd Place. It's a crescent of unevenly spaced bungalows, some with tidy front yards, some overgrown and bedraggled, between West Highland Memorial Cemetery and the road heading out of town. A mailbox outside a small beige-painted wooden house says 3811 on it.

I get out of the car to take a picture and a man opens the front door. His name's David. He's a land surveyor. He says he's lived there for two years. He says it's a quiet neighbourhood. 'Mainly elderly people now,' he says, 'apart from me and the girl in the place next door.'

He says Wilder pulled up outside in his Rolls Royce recently just to have a look. 'I told him: "Deontay, I know you're making a lot of money but you ain't got enough cash to buy this place back".' He bursts out laughing and goes back inside.

Wilder looks in perfect shape ahead of his eagerly-anticipated clash with Fury on December 1

Wilder still associates the place with his fractious youth. 'I never looked for trouble,' he says, 'but trouble always found me. It seemed to me every time I walked out the door I had to put my hands up.

'I had to do something. Being in Tuscaloosa there wasn't nothing to do. My dad was a minister. My grandmother a pastor. I was raised up in the church. I was shielded from things. We couldn't listen to certain music, we couldn't see certain things on TV. As kids, if there's nothing to do we find something. That's the only explanation I can come up with.

'I was always a loner. I never picked with no one. I was always to myself. People would pick with you. They'd test you. They would see if you had the courage, if you had the heart.

'If you went to the wrong neighbourhood you was going to fight. There weren't no questions asked so you might as well be ready. People would say: "Why go to those neighbourhoods?" But sometimes that was where the best basketball players were or where the best football players were.

'They were in the rural areas or the projects so if you wanted a good game you went there and you didn't worry about the repercussions. You thought about that later. I built up a reputation. People knew. If you bullied me or tried to fight me I'd fight back.

'My father taught us that, me and my brother. Especially me because I was the oldest. He told me to take care of my brothers and sisters. He said: "If you come home crying I'm going to whup you and give you something to cry for because you didn't do what you were supposed to do".'

David, a land surveyor, now lives in the house in Tuscaloosa where Wilder grew up

'Growing up I had to be tough. Had to. There wasn't no choice. Or you was going to get walked over.

'The West Side's still the area they don't touch. I'm going to buy back the block. I've got many things I want to do. I want to build homes. I want to build different restaurants and businesses to bring revenue back over that way. After 33 years the only thing they've done for that side of town was fixed the sidewalks, put up nightlights. I'm like "Are y'all serious?"'

That night, Wilder is at the gym again. Reggae music is booming out over the loud speakers as he prowls the ring, gliding over its red canvas. A big sign on the wall next to the ring says: 'I'm back. My body wasn't here but my mind never left.'

For a giant, he is remarkably lithe. The training camp is winding down. He looks in perfect shape.

Fury calls Wilder one-dimensional with a clumsy right hand he can see coming a mile away, but there is something dazzling about his speed when you see it close up.

Wilder disclosed that he likes Fury as a person and sees a lot of great things in him

Wilder gets ready to spar. He is wearing golden gloves and a golden headguard. He is a showman again. Suddenly he sprints across the ring and does a pirouette right in front of his adviser, Mark Breland, the former Olympic champion and world title holder, who is standing in one corner. Wilder finishes his 360 so he is facing Breland. 'Hi Mark,' he says, laughing at his own grace.

One of his sparring partners, the veteran fighter Malik Scott, climbs into the ring and they begin to circle each other. Now and again, Wilder explodes into action.

Much is made of Fury's awkward style but Wilder is unconventional, too. 'They both awkward,' says Scott later, as he sits eating fried pickles in a sports bar up the road, 'but Deontay's more agile. Time and prime. It's Deontay's time and he's in his prime. He's the fastest in the world.'

Sometimes, when he likes the music, Wilder sings along with it as he spars. 'We're jammin', jammin', jammin', jammin',' he yells as he punches. He gyrates his hips and thrusts his groin forward.

There are times when it feels a little like a Pentecostal service in the gym. There is a small audience of friends and locals, maybe 30 people. There's a restaurateur, a sheriff's deputy, his gun holstered at his side, and the father of one of the sparring partners. They provide support and accompaniment.

Fury has called Wilder one-dimensional but there is something dazzling about his speed

DEONTAY WILDER'S LAST FIVE FIGHTS March 3, 2018: Beat Luis Ortiz November 4, 2017: Beat Bermane Stiverne February 25, 2017: Beat Gerald Washington July 16, 2016: Beat Chris Arreola January 16, 2016: Beat Artur Szpilka

After one exchange of punches, one man yells at another sparring partner, Stephan Shaw, that he is doing the perfect impression of Fury.

'You the imitator,' he shouts out. 'You the motivator.' Wilder roars with laughter. 'I like that,' he shouts, catching the cadence. 'The imitator, the motivator, the initiator.'

They are almost ready to break camp. On Wednesday, they will pack up.

On Thursday, they will celebrate Thanksgiving. On Friday, they will head to LA. Wilder sits in the office, quiet and calm, away from the bombast of the travelling roadshows with Fury. He says he likes the man he must beat on December 1.

'I like him as a person,' he says. 'I'll never deny that. Even if he doesn't like me, I'll still say I like him as a person. I see a lot of great things in him. So many people have criticised him and rubbed his name in the dirt, even in his own country. I didn't like the fact that he beat Klitschko and didn't get no recognition. I didn't like that at all.'

But this is also the fight Wilder has been waiting for his whole life. He has an unblemished record of 40 wins from 40 fights, with 39 by knockout, and yet he still feels he has never got the attention or the recognition he deserves.

'The Fury fight means everything to me,' he admits. 'It's my coming out party to America. This is my time. There is nothing else going on on December 1. All the stars are going to be at the fight and everyone is going to be chilling. With Fury, I've got a guy who can promote the fight. I don't really have to say too much and you don't know how refreshing that is for me. I love it when he's talking.

'Let him build the fight. He thinks he's getting in my head but I'm enjoying him talking. All my career, I've had to carry the promotion and people don't realise how stressful that is.

'Nothing can be said that can get to me. I am the happiest I have ever been in my life. I had a lot of personal problems a while back and I had to clean my pipes and let all that negativity flush itself.'

Wilder insists that nothing that Fury says ahead of the fight can get to him personally

If once he fought to pay Naieya's medical bills, those kind of money worries are long gone. He has a fleet of expensive cars, houses in Tuscaloosa, Atlanta and LA, and an extensive gun collection. He showed a reporter a golden gun recently and then began brandishing a bazooka.

'I'm a true gun collector,' he says. 'I've got a lot of different souvenirs. I don't have bad intentions. The only thing I haven't shot before is the bazooka and I don't have any plans on shooting it. It's for my collection. I like to clean them and put them back together. It's like therapy for me.

'Everyone has their thing. Motorcycles: therapy. Being in the water: therapy. Scuba diving: therapy. I can't wait to jump out of a plane. That might be a little therapy, too. I don't know about bungee jumping. I have a thing about trust. I don't put too much trust in people.

Wilder revealed that caring for his family is what motivates him most of all

The WBC heavyweight champion is determined to return with greater glories than ever before

'Even when you go to church, sometimes you got to be careful, because in church some people just go for the show. Sometimes you will have devils in sheep's clothing. I have seen many like that. I have been born and raised in the church so I know what I'm doing.'

He still fights for his family. Caring for them, giving them the kind of childhood that was denied him, is what motivates him most of all. It is why he is adamant Fury will not get in his way.

'I fight for the same thing now as I always did,' Wilder says. 'I have six kids, seven really because my fiancee has one, too. I want one more to make a basketball team with three subs. I want to give my children the best childhood possible.

'My father and my mother did the best they could do. My father told me he was only making $600 a week and rent was $550 plus all the utilities. As a child, you don't understand that. You just think your parents are strict on you when you ask for certain clothes and shoes because other peers have it.

'Other kids are name-calling because you got raggly shoes and you don't have name-brand shoes. I thought my dad was just being cheap but I didn't understand what obligations he had to fulfil.

'So when people say they are going to outbox me or all I'm about is the right hand, I love it when they talk about me that way because they got the wrong mindset. They are not taking me seriously.

'Fury is one of those fighters who tries to get in your head but you can't get in my head. The things he says, I have heard over and over again and more as a child. It falls on deaf ears.'

Wilder is ready. His Bomb Zquad is ready. When he leaves Tuscaloosa on Friday, over the bridge, past the West Side, heading for LA and the bright lights, he will return to his children, he says, laden with greater glories than ever before.

====== 2103 ========

SIR CLIVE WOODWARD FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

SIR CLIVE WOODWARD: England will learn a lot of lessons from that win. Their first-half performance was poor, lacking rugby intelligence and frankly very disappointing but in fairness they turned that around very well and rescued the situation with a much better second-half showing. The arrival of Owen Farrell was absolutely key in that process. He immediately raised the intensity levels and everybody around him responded, as they always do. The majority of the 80,000 England fans started breathing a bit more easily. From the moment of Farrell's arrival there was only going to be one result and they won the second half 25-0 against a really talented Japanese side. There was a lot to enjoy about that second half — not least the tackling and defensive work. ...read

====== 2104 ========

OWEN FARRELL MADE THE DIFFERENCE BUT EDDIE JONES' ENGLAND LACK A RUTHLESS EDGE

England will learn a lot of lessons from that win. Their first-half performance was poor, lacking rugby intelligence and frankly very disappointing but in fairness they turned that around very well and rescued the situation with a much better second-half showing.

The arrival of Owen Farrell was absolutely key in that process. He immediately raised the intensity levels and everybody around him responded, as they always do.

The majority of the 80,000 England fans started breathing a bit more easily. From the moment of Farrell's arrival there was only going to be one result and they won the second half 25-0 against a really talented Japanese side. There was a lot to enjoy about that second half — not least the tackling and defensive work.

Owen Farrell's introduction raised England's intensity levels and was key to their comeback

England's co-captain helped ensure they did not suffer an embarrassing defeat against Japan

Japan, it should be stated straight away, covered themselves in glory. They are such a good side to watch, their passing to a man is wonderful, their off-loading very clever and we all have so much to learn from them in that respect and in their intensity and passion.

Their skipper Michael Leitch produced one of the finest individuals displays I have seen at Twickenham and if they continue in the same vein — and with a fanatical home crowd behind them — there is no reason why they cannot get off to a good start in their opening World Cup game against Russia.

There is no question they can also beat Samoa and it takes no leap of the imagination to see them producing one very big performance against either Scotland or Ireland.

Japan skipper Michael Leitch produced a magnificent performance at Twickenham

Ryoto Nakamura touched down for Japan's first try as they led when the half-time whistle went

This display will bring a lot of confidence to Jamie Joseph and his coaching team. They are building very well.

England, I believe, will be pleased enough because they confronted an awkward situation, mended it on the hoof, changed their attitude and shifted the gears — which is exactly what you have to do sometimes. That was very good and encouraging for Australia next week.

It wasn't just Farrell's contribution. Kyle Sinckler was excellent — when he is on his game he brings so much to the table — while Joe Cokanasiga is definitely a talent and not just because of his power and pace.

He has a good rugby brain and always finds a way of contributing. England are well provisioned on the wing and perhaps he won't start against Australia, but I would like to see him on the bench.

But let's not gloss over that first half, it really was poor. They just didn't look right mentally and I am glad George Ford, Maro Itoje and Dylan Hartley all fronted up afterwards and admitted that.

It's a tricky one. You think you are on top of these things in training, you hold meetings when you smash the table and warn against complacency, you try to put a bit extra into the warm up and then, come the whistle, it's still not quite there. I've been there myself and its incredibly disappointing and mystifying when it happens.

Joe Cokanasiga showed he is more than pure power and pace on his England debut

England's second-string did not take the chance Eddie Jones handed them at Twickenham

England also got it wrong tactically in the first half. They wanted to play at tempo, which I applaud, but playing with tempo doesn't mean throwing the ball around in sevens style and going mindlessly, endlessly, wide to the wings. You always have to employ your power game first — especially against a smaller team such as Japan.

Eddie joked in midweek that his old side needed to go to a temple and pray. Well, if they did, I can guarantee you the Japanese side prayed for England to play an unstructured, loose game in the first half without employing their big guns up front first. It was manna from heaven for the visitors.

Let's face it, Japan should have been more than five points clear at half time. They were 15 points better and will rue some of the missed chances when they perhaps got a bit of white-line fever when camped on the England line.

England lacked any sort of edge to their game and what will frustrate Eddie is that only four of the starting XV played against New Zealand last week. This was a new team with a host of points to prove, they should have been incredibly hungry and sharp.

Danny Care's needless kick into touch to take the game to half-time summed up their approach

But England are in good shape to end the Autumn internationals on a high against Australia

For me, the whole England display in the first half was summed up by Danny Care, when on the half-time whistle, England won valuable turnover ball. Instead of looking to use that potentially dangerous backline, he just turned and kicked the ball dead in goal.

Give me strength! England were five points down and could, albeit undeservedly, have nicked the lead and settled nerves with a precise, clever counter-attack not unlike the one which brought the try for Care early in the half.

I have no idea why England would be so negative playing in front of a packed house at Twickenham. I enjoy watching Care, he is a cheeky chappy and when he is hot he causes a lot of trouble, but I've seen him do this before in similar situations.

It is not a ruthless winning attitude. Think back to New Zealand and the number of tries they score with the clock in the red before they go down the tunnel for half-time.

So the afternoon ended well but not without alarms and all is set up nicely now for next week. England and Eddie Jones are in credit this autumn, it's all ticking over quite nicely but a defeat against Australia would dent that positivity. One last, huge effort, a good win and England will go into 2019 in good shape.

====== 2105 ========

DR MICHAEL MOSLEY FOR THE DAILY MAIL

DR MICHAEL MOSLEY: According to popular mythology, men are obsessed by cars, electronic gadgets and sports. We cling on to the TV remote and God forbid we miss a Premier League football match. Women, on the other hand, enjoy clothes shopping and chatting. They are more empathetic, understanding and far more helpful in an emotional crisis than us bullish blokes. These classic stereotypes have long been debated, with many arguing that the categorisation of the sexes is outdated nonsense. A study of children indicated brain 'sex' was determined before birth. ...read

====== 2106 ========

'WOMEN LOVE SHOPPING, MEN LIKE CARS': DR MICHAEL MOSLEY ON THE TRUTH BEHIND THOSE GENDER STEREOTYPES

According to popular mythology, men are obsessed by cars, electronic gadgets and sports. We cling on to the TV remote and God forbid we miss a Premier League football match.

Women, on the other hand, enjoy clothes shopping and chatting. They are more empathetic, understanding and far more helpful in an emotional crisis than us bullish blokes.

These classic stereotypes have long been debated, with many arguing that the categorisation of the sexes is outdated nonsense.

Spot the difference: A study of children indicated brain 'sex' was determined before birth (stock image)

But studies suggest that some emotional experiences, such as stress, can be processed differently by men and women. Men typically turn theirs ‘outwards’, resulting in increased anger-management problems and higher rates of suicide, and women turn theirs ‘inward’, making them more likely to be anxious and depressed.

Now a new landmark study by researchers at Cambridge University provides further evidence that some age-old gender ‘myths’ may not be so far from the truth…

THE EVIDENCE THAT MEN SYSTEMISE … WHILE WOMEN EMPATHISE

For the new study, researchers asked 670,000 people to complete an online questionnaire that was designed to separate out the empathisers – those who identify and understand others’ emotions – from the systemisers – those who analyse complex systems.

Participants had to state if they agreed or disagreed with statements including ‘When I talk to people, I tend to talk about their experiences rather than my own’ and ‘I am fascinated by how machines work’.

Now a new landmark study by researchers at Cambridge University provides further evidence that some age-old gender ‘myths’ may not be so far from the truth, writes Dr Michael Mosley (pictured)

The scientists were testing the theory that men were more likely to agree with the final statement, giving them a higher ‘systemiser’ score.

Similarly, they predicted that women would more likely agree with the first statement, indicating an increased ability to put themselves in others’ shoes.

Although there were plenty of exceptions, on the whole the results proved the researchers’ theories correct: men did indeed score higher for ‘systemising’ than for ‘empathising’, while for women it was the other way round.

So far, so unsurprising. But the most intriguing part of the Cambridge research lies in some of the explanations behind these striking differences…

IT STARTS IN THE WOMB... WITH HORMONES

Are male and female differences simply the result of exposure to social pressures in childhood, or is there something else going on?

The fascinating work of Professor Simon Baron Cohen, who ran the Cambridge study, has explored whether some gender differences begin in the womb.

Ask Dr Mosley: Your questions answered Q: I’ve lost a stone on your diet. One question: can I substitute a low-fat flavoured yogurt for a plain Greek one? A: If you don’t like plain Greek yogurt, add chopped fruit or berries such as blueberries, as well as chopped nuts, for natural sweetness. Or try coconut yogurt, which is sweeter and creamier, though more expensive. You could also try a sprinkle of cinnamon, which adds sweetness without excess calories. Steer clear of low-fat flavoured yogurts. They’re usually packed with sugar to make up for the loss of flavour that results from omitting the fat. Do you have a question for Dr Mosley? Email drmosley@mailonsunday.co.uk or write to him at The Mail on Sunday, 2 Derry Street, London, W8 5TT. Dr Mosley can only answer in a general context and cannot give personal replies.

His pioneering research involved the collection, and measurement, of compounds in the wombs of more than 19,000 pregnant women. These compounds, contained within the amniotic fluid, included the sex hormones testosterone and oestrogen, as well as stress hormone cortisol.

Prof Baron Cohen and his team then followed the children for more than a decade, testing them on cognitive and behavioural measures every couple of years.

They found that being exposed to higher levels of testosterone in the womb was associated with being less empathetic, and better at visual spatial challenges later in life such as imagining how a shape would look if it were rotated. This is because testosterone is typically seen as a male hormone because it ‘masculinises’ boys’ brains and bodies – it is responsible for the formation of the male reproductive organs. Similarly, oestrogen is responsible for the reproductive development of girls.

Although men and women produce both hormones, men have higher levels of testosterone, and women more oestrogen. Intriguingly, girls exposed to high levels of testosterone in the womb also exhibit more ‘systemising’ behaviours than typically seen in boys.

CHERISH ‘EXTREME MALE BRAIN’… OR AUTISM

Prof Baron Cohen’s research relates to the developmental disorder autism and he has developed a theory that those who have it are more likely to be ‘male-brained’.

Interestingly, high levels of testosterone in the womb are associated with a greater chance of developing autism, which seems to affect more boys than girls.

You can test the gender of your brain (pictured stock image), or indeed your partner's, by visiting autism researchcentre.com/arc_tests for a range of systemising-empathising surveys

At the Autism Research Centre at Cambridge University, where he is the director, Prof Baron Cohen has found that those with autism – who typically struggle to recognise and understand the feelings of others – score at the ‘male end’ of a systemising-empathising test.

Although they may struggle with some forms of empathy, that doesn’t mean they don’t care about other people.

Prof Baron Cohen thinks that we should cherish and celebrate the wealth of talents autistic people have, rather than obsess over their difficulties.

If you fancy testing the gender of your brain, or indeed of your partner’s, visit autism researchcentre.com/arc_tests for a range of systemising-empathising surveys.

====== 2107 ========

PINTER 3 REVIEW: A BRILLIANT CAST AND A NEW SIDE OF PINTER

Pinter 3

Harold Pinter Theatre, London Until Dec 8, 2hrs 30mins

Rating:

The great Tamsin Greig stars in this latest batch of one-act Harold Pinter dramas that are being staged by director Jamie Lloyd over the next few months. She opens with Landscape, from 1969, talking with an Irish lilt about an erotic encounter by the sea.

Keith Allen plays the husband who can’t connect with her. She is either ignoring him or remembering him from better, more sensual days. Either way, this gentle reverie of female desire is gorgeous to listen to.

Greig also appears to truly devastating effect in A Kind Of Alaska, from 1982, about a 16-year-old girl in a nightie who wakes up after a 29-year coma in a body that’s grown middle-aged without her consent.

Trouble In The Works , from 1959, is about factory workers who take umbrage against the widgets they make. Above: Lee Evans and Tom Edden

Keith Allen plays her doctor, tenderly drip-feeding her information. Meera Syal is terrific as her self-sacrificing sister and carer who looks on, wondering what has happened to her own life.

The bendy comedian Lee Evans crops up throughout the evening, adding mirth. He features in Monologue, from 1973, in a one-way conversation that’s both hilarious and tragic.

He’s also a face-pulling housewife (with Allen and Tom Edden) in a ‘Do you know who I saw at the butcher’s?’-type skit, reminiscent of the Cissie and Ada sketches that Les Dawson used to do with Roy Barraclough.

Trouble In The Works, from 1959, is about factory workers who take umbrage against the widgets they make. As Evans’s baffled foreman explains, ‘They’ve gone vicious about the tapered-shank, spiral-flute reamers.’

The sketch predates Monty Python by ten years and reveals a welcome, playful side of the curmudgeonly Pinter that I never knew about.

The Watsons

Minerva Theatre, Chichester Until Dec 1, 2hrs 10mins

Rating:

The Watsons is an 1805 novel that Jane Austen abandoned – no one knows why – after writing only a short chunk. This fantasy adaptation, by Laura Wade, picks up where she left off.

At first it’s a tale of waspish wit, in full Regency costume, featuring the impoverished Emma Watson, 19, in search of a husband.

Candidates include a rector, a young blade and the stinking-rich Lord Osborne.

A lively, if hit-and-miss comedy, with Sam West directing a strong cast led by Grace as Emma Watson (above with Paksie Vernon as Elizabeth Watson)

Just as you are wondering where it’ll lead, on comes an actress (Louise Ford) playing the writer Laura, disguised as a maid.

She breaks the news to the stunned Emma that she’s not real, just a character.

Mutiny spreads as the cast turn on the strange author, who explains that her blue trousers are jeans. ‘Who is Jean?’ comes the lovely response.

But this modern playwright figure often seems a clumsy intrusion, especially when she’s going on about the lack of feminism in Regency England.

A lively, if hit-and-miss comedy, with Sam West directing a strong cast led by Grace Molony as the bolshie heroine Emma.

Hadestown

Olivier stage, National Theatre, London Until Jan 26, 2hrs 40mins

Rating:

Reeve Carney as Orpheus and Eva Noblezada as Eurydice

Created by singer-songwriter Anaïs Mitchell and director Rachel Chavkin, this musical reworking of the Orpheus and Eurydice myth comes from New York. It’s staged in a speakeasy with a jazz band and a lift down to Hell, where miners slave away.

Reeve Carney is like a young Cliff Richard as the troubadour Orpheus. But Eva Noblezada’s unappealing Eurydice screeches.

Poor, soppy Orpheus loses her to Hades while he’s composing a love song.

The live band is tight and the cast animated by André De Shields’ cool Hermes, Amber Gray’s louche Persephone, and by Patrick Page as Hades – a wicked Trump figure obsessed with building a wall and indifferent to climate change.

It’s a shame that the young lovers are so beige and that the show is politically so wholesome.

Ear For Eye

Royal Court, London Until Sat, 2hrs

Rating:

A cast of 15 black actors fills the stage. That this itself is worth remarking on is just the tip of why Debbie Tucker Green’s incendiary play about racial injustice feels so important.

Part one comprises several short scenes, spiked with pointed repetitions, exploring attitudes towards prejudice, protest and police brutality across generations in the US and Britain. Which is better, steady progress or furious change?

Some are written in stylishly elliptical dialogue, but best are the rhythmical, lyrical speeches: this is beautiful writing about horrific things, from being tear-gassed to being strip-searched.

Two hours without an interval, it’s not an easy watch. Nor should it be. But for all that it may be discomforting, Green’s writing is also exhilarating. Above: Jamal Ajala

Part two is a long, circling debate between an excruciatingly condescending white academic and a young black woman that slowly exposes the contortions made so that white-supremacist killers aren’t deemed terrorists.

Part three shows film of white people chillingly reading aloud segregation laws and British slave codes.

Two hours without an interval, it’s not an easy watch. Nor should it be. But for all that it may be discomforting, Green’s writing is also exhilarating, her direction penetrating, and the performances poised yet potent.

This is a riveting piece of theatre that demands you don’t look away.

Holly Williams

Don Quixote

Garrick Theatre, London Until Feb 2, 2hrs 45mins

Rating:

Befuddled by books on chivalry, a Spanish gentleman thinks he is Don Quixote, the ‘Knight of the Sorrowful Countenance’, and takes off on imaginary adventures with his ‘squire’ Sancho Panza.

In this RSC production, adapted by James Fenton from Miguel de Cervantes’ 17th-century novel, David Threlfall is the deluded knight-errant, all high-flown speechifying, doleful dignity and balletic hand gestures.

Rufus Hound is his earthy and exasperated sidekick.

This is not just a joyous, uplifting comedy but an exuberant and exhilarating celebration of theatricality itself. There wasn’t a sorrowful countenance in the house

The hapless pair battle giants, tangle with innkeepers and rescue damsels in distress.

Director Angus Jackson blends a dash of Monty Python, a soupçon of Blackadder and a generous dollop of panto in this inventive, fast-moving and very funny show.

Threlfall and Hound make a tremendous comic duo but the entire cast work their socks off and all are worthy of mention.

There is music, puppetry, pyrotechnics and meta-jokes about actors and acting.

This is not just a joyous, uplifting comedy but an exuberant and exhilarating celebration of theatricality itself. There wasn’t a sorrowful countenance in the house.

Neil Armstrong

====== 2108 ========

DAVID DE GEA HAS ONE CLEAN SHEET THIS SEASON AND ONLY TWO KEEPERS HAVE CONCEDED MORE

David de Gea did well to disguise Manchester United's fragile defence last season, making the fifth most saves of any goalkeeper in the Premier League and securing 18 clean sheets.

That won him the Golden Glove and helped Jose Mourinho's side to a second-placed finish. The Spaniard was their Mr Dependable who would, quite literally, save the day.

After 12 league games this season, however, De Gea has kept just one clean sheet and leaked 21 goals. Only Cardiff's Neil Etheridge and Burnley's Joe Hart have conceded more.

David de Gea has been leaking goals all season and has so far just managed one clean sheet

After 12 league games this season the Manchester United goalkeeper has conceded 21 goals

MOST GOALS CONCEDED THIS TERM 25 – Neil Etheridge, Cardiff 25 – Joe Hart, Burnley 21 – David De Gea, Man Utd 21 – Alex McCarthy, Southampton 20 – Marcus Bettinelli, Fulham

Despite his dip, recent seasons have shown they don't come much more reliable than De Gea. In four of the last five campaigns, he has been named his club's Player of the Year.

A positive, yes, but also one that indicates an unhealthy dependence on your last line of defence. As Mourinho said previously: 'I think when a goalkeeper is player of the season, it is because something is wrong.'

Though De Gea should take his share of the blame for United's leakiness, he has not been helped by a back line consistently leaving him stranded between the sticks.

Despite Mourinho's famed stability, United's defence has been calamitous at times this season. There was Ander Herrera's comical attempt to fake it as a defender against Tottenham, plus their overall performance at the back when Newcastle visited Old Trafford in October.

The Spaniard has been Manchester United's Player of the Year for four of the past five seasons

De Gea's last outing in a United shirt saw him concede three times at Manchester City

MOST CLEAN SHEETS SO FAR THIS SEASON 7 – Liverpool, Man City 6 – Chelsea 5 – Tottenham 4 – Newcastle, Bournemouth, Southampton, Wolves, Leicester 3 – Burnley, Brighton, Crystal Palace, Everton, Watford 2 – Arsenal, Cardiff, Huddersfield 1 – West Ham, Man Utd 0 – Fulham

The statistics show how United have faced 153 shots in the Premier League this season. Of those, 62 have been on target, and only West Ham (66), Brighton (67), Cardiff (67), Fulham (75) and Burnley (82) have allowed more.

As manager of Chelsea, Mourinho worked with the likes of John Terry and Ricardo Carvalho. At Real Madrid, with Sergio Ramos and Pepe.

In 12 league matches at United, Mourinho has used five different centre-back combinations, with Chris Smalling and Victor Lindelof the latest he has chosen to stand by.

The Portuguese will point to the fact his centre-half suggestions were shot down in the summer, though his persistent chopping and changing has caused confusion nonetheless.

Victor Lindelof (left) and Chris Smalling (right) are United's current first-choice centre backs

MANCHESTER UNITED'S CENTRE BACKS THIS SEASON vs Leicester: Bailly, Lindelof vs Brighton: Bailly, Lindelof vs Tottenham: Herrera, Smalling, Jones vs Burnley: Smalling, Lindelof vs Watford: Smalling, Lindelof vs Wolves: Smalling, Lindelof vs West Ham: McTominay, Smalling, Lindelof vs Newcastle: Bailly, Smalling vs Chelsea: Smalling, Lindelof vs Everton: Smalling, Lindelof vs Bournemouth: Smalling, Lindelof vs Man City: Smalling, Lindelof

In front of the defence, Marouane Fellaini has occasionally performed admirably as a deep-lying midfielder. Fred, on the other hand, has offered little-to-no protection since signing for £52million.

The Brazilian was supposed to be the man to free Paul Pogba of any defensive donkey work but has been an unused substitute against Chelsea, Manchester City and Juventus twice.

As a result of all this, United have a negative goal difference at this stage of the season for the first time in 41 years. At a time when they want to convince De Gea to sign a new deal, the feeling of being so exposed cannot be an enjoyable one for the 28-year-old.

De Gea should have done better to prevent Sergio Aguero's strike going in for City last Sunday

DE GEA SAVE PERCENTAGE 2018-19: 66.67% 2017-18: 80.28% 2016-17: 71.84%

De Gea's one and only Premier League clean sheet this season came way back on September 2. Since then, he has had to pick the ball out of the net week in, week out.

In last Sunday's Manchester derby, he had to hold his hands up for the part he played in the 3-1 loss. Sergio Aguero's strike, sent through his arms, should not have got by him.

Dave saves, as United's supporters say, though he is having a hard time of it lately.

De Gea is set to make his 250th Premier League appearance after the international break and is only six clean sheets away from 100. At this rate, he will be waiting a while for that century.

====== 2109 ========

WAYNE ROONEY EARNED HIS ENGLAND SEND-OFF AGAINST USA AT WEMBLEY

What on earth was so wrong with giving Wayne Rooney a farewell England appearance at Wembley and a bonus international cap?

To listen to the outrage you would have thought he had sold the shirts. Those on the backs of his team, not the tens of thousands which have made fortunes for his country and clubs.

The man is England's all-time top scorer, for heaven's sake - at the rations of almost one goal every two of his 120 games. He is Manchester United's most prolific finisher, too.

Wayne Rooney got his England farewell on Thursday night as he played against the USA

The DC United striker came on shortly before the hour mark as he replaced Jesse Lingard

He relieved Sir Bobby Charlton of both those records but the living legend of Old Trafford was first to congratulate him and was on parade at Wembley to present him with a golden cap.

Yet according to Paul Ince - no less - honouring Rooney at the old Stadium 'smacked of PR.' And that was one of the milder objections.

As for the issue of him being given the captain's armband when he came on for his cameo appearance against the United States - where he is still playing full-time with DC United - Rooney started the vast majority of his England matches and was still on the pitch at the conclusion of most of them, trying his heart out.

Chairman of the Football Association Greg Clarke presents Rooney with his special award

Rooney celebrated his England send-off pre-match with his wife and children on the pitch

That cannot be said of every international player, including some notables who made an England career out of being substitutes... or substituted.

Was it really so hard for us to say, simply, thanks for the memories Mr Rooney?

Man City and Chelsea storm is no English witch hunt

Manchester City and now Chelsea stand accused of cheating. Reportedly four or five more Premier League clubs will find themselves in the dock shortly.

Both deny wrongdoing. City of financial impropriety, Chelsea of breaking the rules regarding the recruitment of youngsters.

If convicted Chelsea face being banned from signing any players for up to two seasons. As would the other clubs yet to be named.

Chelsea could face a transfer ban after an investigation into the signing of Bertrand Traore

This is not a witch hunt of the English, as some are squealing. Paris Saint-Germain are among European giants also under investigation.

Cheating is by no means confined to these shores but there is a growing, un-English tendency to shrug the shoulders and accept it as part of our modern, money-driven sporting scene. How sad.

If the super-wealthy foreign owners of Chelsea and City are complicit in any dodgy deals, they will have tarnished the reputation for fair play and sportsmanship which this country has long held proud.

Richard Scudamore keeps counting the cash

By the way, where have the Premier League hierarchy been hiding while the probity of their clubs is being called into question?

The silence from that high office makes all the more obscene the paying of a £5million kiss-off to retiring chief executive Richard Scudamore under the device of making him a 'consultant'.

That three-year deal is even more nauseating than the original proposition of a £250,000 per club whip round, since it removes from those who object their right to with-hold their contribution. Perhaps so as to use that money to help the poor in their football community.

Premier League has confirmed that Richard Scudamore will stay on in a consultant capacity

Not that we should be surprised. Scudamore had already been trousering well in excess of a million a year, while food banks are the only banks with which countless supporters of his rich and famous clubs are familiar.

But then his Premier empire as well as his long term in office have been built from inception on money - especially the making of mountains of the folding stuff for the most powerful of his paymasters.

And why did they headhunt his successor and then stuff each other's faces at his glitzy farewell dinner on Tuesday night if he wasn't retiring?

The closest the majority of fans could have come to joining the party would have been pressing their noses against the window. But what do they matter? No shock either that the London restaurant they chose is called the German Gymnasium.

Scudamore voted emphatically in favour of remaining in Chancellor Merkel's Europe, even though Brexit can help produce more world-class talent for the England team by raising the quota of home-grown players given Premier League experience.

Never mind the football, eh Richard, keep counting the cash.

====== 2110 ========

VAR'S INTRODUCTION IS LONG OVERDUE IN THE PREMIER LEAGUE

We have had Video Assistant Referees in Saudi Arabia this season. The biggest impact has been that fewer players are diving.

Simulation was a big problem in the Saudi league 12 months ago. Now, players know they will be caught and cautioned if they take a tumble to try to win a penalty.

It is the same with grappling in the box. VAR is acting as a deterrent.

Charlie Austin was left fuming after he wrongly had a goal disallowed against Watford

You only have to look at last weekend's high-profile errors to see that the introduction of VAR is long overdue.

Charlie Austin wrongly had a goal for Southampton chalked off, Watford should have had a penalty in the same game and Sol Bamba scored a winning goal for Cardiff against Brighton despite being offside.

Such is the pace of the Premier League now that almost every referee I speak to wants more support. More than anything, they want the ability to have a second look at incidents that could result in penalties or red cards.

The introduction of VAR is long overdue... the Premier League cannot afford to be left behind

How often do we see players crowd the official when they feel wronged by a decision? By being able to review replays, referees will be able to take the sting out of an incident and reach a measured conclusion.

Even if the referees stick with their on-field decision, players will be more likely to accept it knowing that replays have been consulted.

VAR is already in operation in Serie A and the Bundesliga. It was a success at the World Cup. As our game moves with technology, the Premier League cannot afford to be left behind.

====== 2111 ========

IF LIVERPOOL AND EVERTON KNOW THEIR FANS THEY CANNOT GIVE £500,000 TO RICHARD SCUDAMORE

It is difficult to know what to get most angry about: the man who made the idea, the potential recipient or some clubs for even contemplating the suggestion.

You will, by now, be familiar with the story. Bruce Buck, the Chelsea chairman, has asked each of the 20 Premier League clubs to make a donation of £250,000 to Richard Scudamore, the outgoing Premier League chief executive, as a thank you for his work.

Whatever happened to some John Lewis vouchers as leaving gift? If Scudamore - whose annual salary of £900,000 could reach £2.5million with bonuses - has any self-awareness, you would hope he has quietly spoken to Buck and told him to cancel the idea, as it was anything but appropriate.

Premier League clubs have been asked to give £250,000 each to Richard Scudamore

But, as yet, we have not heard anything from Scudamore, so we cannot speculate as to what he thinks. We do know he was a man who came from humbling beginnings in Bristol and if he has not forgotten his roots, this will not sit easily with him.

For Buck to even think this is acceptable smacks of someone being out of touch with reality. At a time when supporters all over the country are struggling to make ends meet, it is an obscene idea and should have immediately been treated with derision when it was put to the 19 other Premier League clubs.

It emerged on Wednesday that five clubs are appalled and let that be known at an emergency meeting on Tuesday; Mersey Beat can only hope that Liverpool and Everton are at the front of the queue, thumping their fists on the table and demanding the rest see sense.

Bruce Buck is trying to raise a £5m golden handshake for Scudamore (above)

Scudamore, potentially, could be given £5m. For the sake of this column, the simple mathematics of that would be a £500,000 contribution from Liverpool and Everton. What would they rather do? Give £500,000 to a man with great wealth - or support the local community?

If Liverpool and Everton were to give £500,000 to grassroots football, it would negate the council fees for all junior teams for the next couple of years; £500,000 could provide coaching courses to hundreds of volunteers, who currently have to pay £170 to obtain the FA Level 1 coaching badge.

And £500,000 would finance the building of a 3G pitch in the city or improve the drainage on the pitches that, for most of last winter, were submerged and waterlogged; how many bibs, balls, cones and goals would clubs be able to buy with even a fraction of that money?

Everton have a thriving community programme and could spend £250,000 far more wisely

Amateur clubs all over the city are reliant on taking monthly subscriptions from families in a city that has many areas that face economic challenges; the story in Liverpool is the same from the North East to the South West.

What else would £500,000 do? Well, outside Anfield and Goodison Park every week, there are fans who man foodbanks. The slogan of one respected Twitter account, @SFoodbanks, says it all: #HungerDoesntWearClubColours; the people of Merseyside have and always will stick together.

So, with that in mind, you would hope now that the representatives of Liverpool and Everton at this Premier League meeting are shouting down Buck and telling him his brainwave is appalling and alienating in equal measure.

Liverpool supporters would rather the club spent the money throughout the local community

Everton, who have such a thriving community scheme, and Liverpool, who are so in touch with their fanbase, need to stand firm. They simply cannot give half a million pounds that would be better invested elsewhere as a parting gift to Scudamore.

If Liverpool and Everton know their city and supporters as you hope they do, we will find out in the next 48 hours that Peter Moore and Denise Barret-Baxendale, the respective chief executives, have been at the forefront of ensuring Buck does not get his way and Scudamore does not get his gift.

But if he does? Well, simply, it would be a betrayal. If Liverpool and Everton end up contributing to a golden handshake to Scudamore that is wholly unnecessary, they should be ashamed of themselves. They all should. It is why we must hope there is a victory for common sense.

This is not a moment to get carried away nor is it a time to start making bold predictions for the future. To do so would be risible and unhelpful.

What cannot be denied, though, is the change in atmosphere, the sense that Everton are getting it together. A well-earned 0-0 draw with Chelsea, on the back of a stylish win over Brighton, has sent the club into the international break in a positive way.

It is worth making this point when you think back to how it was 12 months ago, when Ronald Koeman had just been sacked and Steve Walsh's woeful transfer business was really starting to take hold; Everton were in a mess and the atmosphere was as bad as anything since the late 1990s.

Theo Walcott and his Everton team-mates battled to a 0-0 draw against Chelsea last weekend

The focus is on Marco Silva, understandably. The head coach is determined to implement a stylish way of winning matches and, gradually, his methods are beginning to pay off. Do not overlook the influence of Marcel Brands, however, in helping Everton get on an even keel.

Brands is an impressive man and the sense that he is going to be a huge figure in the years going forward was reinforced in an interview he gave to The Times last Saturday, when the director of football explained how Everton's recruitment will work going forward.

'I always say I prefer to have the right player a day later than the wrong player a day earlier,' said Brands, who left PSV Eindhoven to accept this challenge.

Dutchman Marcel Brands has made an impressive start to life as Everton's director of football

'But I want to do it perfect and it was not perfect yet. That is a goal you must have. The last two years were a little bit unstable.'

That point cannot be argued. Farhad Moshiri has made a number of mistakes since he became Everton's major shareholder but appointing Brands was smart.

It will be disappointing if this urbane Dutchman does not build solid foundations.

MOMENT OF THE WEEK

The goal was the kind Mohamed Salah was scoring for fun last season but the way he finished his chance against Fulham on Sunday suggested, finally, he is getting into the right kind of rhythm.

It was at this point 12 months ago that Salah took off for Liverpool. Jurgen Klopp will be hoping history is repeating.

====== 2112 ========

YOU MUST BE CAREFUL WHEN AXEING LEGENDS... PLAYERS LIKE STUART BROAD SHOULDN'T BE MESSED AROUND

One of the things I used to keep an eye on when I was England captain was how players reacted to being left out.

I made a mental note if they moaned they hadn't been given their chance, or blamed people in the dressing room not welcoming them as reasons for few runs or no wickets.

There were one or two who did that, and it summed up their characters. In contrast, I remember Graham Thorpe being left out once: he kept his gob shut, refused to whinge, went away and scored hundreds for Surrey and came straight back in.

Stuart Broad (L) and Jonny Bairstow (R) have been inactive on England's tour of Sri Lanka

That is the sort of character you need when you are not selected and the sort of character I see in both Stuart Broad and Jonny Bairstow.

Some people will question whether having two senior players inactive on a Test tour can create problems, but while the team are playing well, that will not happen. They will be trying to get back in and prove the selectors wrong.

Selection is a two-way street because all players are carried in teams at times. You might not always perform but you're kept in occasionally because your name is Broad or Bairstow.

So when you are omitted you just have to suck it up. Part of being an international cricketer is that anyone can be left out. It's not what happens to you that's important. It's how you react.

Broad (left) delivers towels and drinks during the first Test against Sir Lanka in Galle

My gut feeling is that they will react in the right way. They're the sort of characters who like to prove points. Look at Broad last winter, going away to adjust a wrist position that was all over the place.

He worked hard at getting his bowling in order. When there were rumours that he wasn't going to be selected for this Sri Lanka tour, he wanted a word with the selectors.

His point was: 'I'm Stuart Broad, I think I should be going.' That's the sort of bloke you're dealing with. Selectors can then leave him out, as is their prerogative, but everyone should be given a full explanation of why they have not been picked.

In fact, you actually have to be a little bit more careful with legends of England cricket than those with just a couple of caps. Certain people like Broad have earned their stripes, and you have to do the right thing. The plans for him in the future have to be crystal clear. He shouldn't be messed around.

Broad will be doing everything he can to get back in the team and prove the selectors wrong

As for Bairstow, when there was talk of giving the gloves to Jos Buttler in the summer there was word that he became a bit sulky. Rightly so. You would be with the amount of work Jonny has put into his wicket-keeping. I liked his reaction. It was a belief in what he'd done and a belief in his own ability.

This time, Jonny can't do anything, and Ben Foakes deserves to keep his place. If you open the door — through a footballing mishap in this case — someone else can grab the opportunity.

At the moment the selections Ed Smith and his group are making all turn to gold. They keep it simple by looking at the 22 yards in front of them and pick the right XI. It might be tough at times but that is international cricket.

====== 2113 ========

DUSTIN JOHNSON AND CO FACE DILEMMA AS SAUDI ARABIA TOURNAMENT NEARS

The Race to Dubai draws to its end at the DP World Tour Championship this week, where the elephant in the clubhouse will undoubtedly be the controversial new event scheduled to start on January 31 in Saudi Arabia as part of the Gulf Swing.

Dustin Johnson and Masters champion Patrick Reed have already been confirmed as participants, while it is presumably only the current climate that has prevented the announcement of more star turns.

In a recent interview with Sportsmail, European Tour chief executive Keith Pelley disclosed that other big names such as the two men taking turns to be world No 1 — Justin Rose and this week's incumbent, Brooks Koepka — have also been signed up, as well as plenty more.

Dustin Johnson of the United States is already confirmed to play in the Saudi Arabia event

But when is a good time to announce that in the midst of the international outrage felt following the premeditated killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi at the Saudi consulate in Istanbul?

'We're monitoring the situation,' said Pelley last week, as calls for the event to be cancelled have grown. It's certainly a fraught decision for the Canadian, as the unease felt by many at the staging of high-profile sporting events in the kingdom has increased.

It's not a vast leap of the imagination to suspect the Saudis are using their oil wealth to lure sport into something of a devil's pact, to present a more acceptable persona to cover up human rights abuses.

Justin Rose is also in line to play, according to European Tour chief executive Keith Pelley

But are we in the Western world really in a position to take the high ground and dictate where sports events should be staged?

Wouldn't the Saudis be entitled to look at the bewildering events taking place in America these days — most notably the number of mass shootings — and point an accusing finger of their own?

At Jumeirah Estates this week, the principal focus will rightly be on the Moliwood boys, Francesco Molinari and Tommy Fleetwood, the only two possible winners of the Race to Dubai. But you can be sure behind closed doors, the elephant will be sucking all the air from the room.

Protests outside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul following the murder of Jamal Khashoggi

Quote of the week - Matt Kuchar

'My 2018 wasn't what I wanted but this is certainly a high note. There have been plenty of times this year when I've thought about the fact the kids on tour are getting younger and stronger and whether there's still a place for my style of golf. I guess I've now answered my own question.'

The normally consistent Matt Kuchar had mustered only one top-five finish all year before claiming the Mayakoba Classic at Mexico's Chameleon Golf Club on the PGA Tour on Sunday.

The 40-year-old completed a double for players written off, after Lee Westwood's victory in South Africa earlier in the day.

And how's this for a coincidence? The last time both won on either of the two main tours was on the same day, April 20, 2014.

Matt Kuchar fought off his own doubts with a win at the Mayakoba Golf Classic last week

David Beckham turfs out golf club

David Beckham's plan to bring a Major League Soccer team to Miami passed a significant hurdle last week when he got the required votes in a city-wide referendum to transform a piece of land into a 25,000-seat stadium.

The bad news? The piece of land in question is home to Melreese Country Club, a much-loved municipal course near Miami airport and one of the few places in the city where the game doesn't cost a tidy sum.

Erik Compton, the man who didn't allow two heart transplants to stop him progressing to the PGA Tour, learned to play the game there, as did Cristie Kerr, one of the finest female golfers of the past 20 years.

David Beckham cleared a significant hurdle in his bid to build a 25,000-seat stadium in Miami

'It's tough for us because we've built a beautiful facility here and it's heart-breaking to have to go up against David Beckham and his group,' said Compton, who remains a club member. 'We're all for his campaign to bring soccer to Miami but just not here. There's plenty of other places in the city.'

Added Kerr: 'Melreese is a haven, a magical place created by the most unselfish people. Myself, Erik and thousands of others would never have had a chance to learn the game without it.'

Their vociferous efforts proved futile, however, against the deep pockets of Beckham and his fellow prospective owners, who spent $900,000 on their campaign. In a city with so many Spanish speakers brought up on Barcelona, Real Madrid and top South American teams, they won 60 per cent of the vote.

All is not lost for Compton and Co, however. Before Beckham and his team can pave over the course, he also needs the support of four of the city's five commissioners. 'That's far from assured,' the Miami Herald reports.

====== 2114 ========

IT'S GOING TO BE HARD FOR US SEAMERS, BUT I'M REALLY BUZZING FOR THE UPCOMING SRI LANKA TEST SERIES

It is 11 years since I first visited Sri Lanka on my maiden Test tour.

I played one Test, took one wicket for 95 as the Sri Lankans racked up 548 for nine on a flat one in Colombo, and learned how to bowl the leg-cutter, which has stood me in good stead ever since.

So it's great to be back, and to see the enthusiasm and excitement in some of the guys touring for the first time, like Ollie Pope, Rory Burns and Olly Stone. It's a good reminder of how special this job is. I can't wait for Tuesday's first Test in Galle.

Stuart Broad (centre) gets up to speed for England for Tuesday's first Test in Galle

It is 11 years since I first visited Sri Lanka on my maiden Test tour with England

Rising damp

It's fair to say our preparation hasn't been ideal. One of the four days of our warm-up matches was washed out completely, and the pitches we encountered will almost certainly be nothing like what we'll get in Galle, where it usually turns square.

With all the rain, Joe Root made a good point. He said you should take any opportunity to practise, because you don't know when the next one will be. So although I only bowled five overs in the 50-over match on Friday, it was effectively my second spell, because I'd sent down six overs in the nets already.

I felt in good nick. The outfields can get soggy in the monsoon season, and that can mess with your rhythm. But those five overs were the best I've bowled on the tour, so it's nice to take that into the Tests.

Our preparation hasn't been ideal - One of our warm-up matches was washed out completely

Passing on the spell

When it's not raining, it's so hot that after a few minutes you're drenched in sweat, and your hands are soaking wet. The ball can feel slippery, so you're always looking to dry your hands on a towel. And, of course, as a seamer you don't settle in for long spells.

In England, you might have seven or eight overs to work on a batsman. You might spend five overs targeting the outside edge, then in the sixth over you nip one back and go for lbw. But in Sri Lanka at most, you'll be bowling five overs in one spell.

There's not really time to work over a batsman by yourself, so one of the things we've been talking about is 'passing' the spell on to a team-mate. The worst thing you can do is to strain for a wicket in your last over, which might cost you a couple of boundaries and release the pressure.

You want to keep that pressure on so the guy who replaces you has a better chance of inducing an error. The seamers here who have the most success will concede the lowest percentage of boundaries. You basically need to 'out-patience' the batsman.

The spice of life

Having said that, variety is also important. In England, I reckon I'll bowl at about 85-90 per cent of my maximum speed the whole time. You're aiming for the top of off stump at roughly the same pace.

In Sri Lanka, you sometimes have to mix things up. Peter Moores drummed into me the need to develop that leg-cutter on that 2007-08 tour, and it's proved my best delivery over the years.

But you also need to change your pace. Sometimes you're bowling at 60 per cent of your capacity, other times at 100 per cent. Whatever is required, I'm ready for it, and I've been working hard on my alignment with our bowling coach Chris Silverwood. I feel a real buzz at the moment.

Sometimes you're bowling at 60 per cent of your capacity, other times at 100 per cent

Striking the balance

I really don't know how the team's going to line up on Tuesday. A lot will depend on the pitch, but with this being slow left-armer Rangana Herath's last Test, it's safe to assume it may turn a bit.

When South Africa played at Galle in July, Sri Lanka captain Suranga Lakmal didn't bring himself on until the 37th over of their first innings - it was the first over of seam they faced in the match.

What that means for the balance of our attack, I'm not sure. But we all know that a squad of 17 means six of us will miss out each time, and the challenge is to turn the free time to your advantage. Don't mope around sipping tea: work on your game and leave Sri Lanka a better player.

Numbers game

My dad Chris got a message during the fourth Test against India at Southampton from his old Nottinghamshire team-mate Sir Richard Hadlee, who had noticed that I'd gone past his haul of 431 wickets for New Zealand.

And I was told recently that I'm only one wicket behind India's Kapil Dev, who has 434 and is seventh on the all-time list.

It was nice to hear from Sir Richard, and my mum even got a bit emotional, but I can honestly say that stats don't drive me. Yes, it can be surreal to think that I've taken so many wickets, but I'm a bit like Alastair Cook and Jimmy Anderson, in that the things that stay with me are the celebrations with team-mates after the game.

The numbers just build up as you go along. It's the camaraderie that matters.

Sir Richard Hadlee text my dad to say I'd gone past his haul of 431 wickets for New Zealand

Stay out of hot water

We're staying at the Lighthouse hotel in Galle, which is a beautiful spot on the coast.

But I've also heard that Gareth Batty got into a spot of bother here during the 2003-04 tour.

He went for a swim in the sea and had to be rescued by lifeguards after getting into trouble with the currents. I think I'll stick to the pool…

====== 2115 ========

THE NORTH HAS THE UPPER HAND IN AUTUMN WARM UP INTERNATIONALS

The shift in rugby's balance of power, from south to north, should accelerate next month. The last November Test programme of its kind is a prime chance for the European nations to enhance their World Cup prospects.

Even New Zealand's perennial status as the global pace-setters is under threat, for the first time in many years.

Having narrowly avoided back-to-back defeats against South Africa by conjuring a great escape in Pretoria, Steve Hansen's All Blacks could be toppled from the No 1 ranking by Ireland.

Steve Hansen's All Blacks could be toppled from the No 1 ranking by Ireland this autumn

The showdown between those teams in Dublin on November 17 represents the pinnacle of this autumn international window.

As ever, the Kiwi kingpins will arrive in these parts with a target on their heads and England will believe they can upset them at Twickenham in 12 days' time, but the main ambush awaits in the Irish capital.

Given the class of their Leinster core and the way they cleared a psychological barrier by beating New Zealand in Chicago two years ago, Joe Schmidt's side have every chance of repeating that feat and finishing this year on top of the pile.

First, they are back in the same American city to face Italy — but that fixture and Wales v Scotland are financial exercises, nothing more.

November is meant to be all about north v south – one-off Tests with exotic appeal. For so long, the matches served as a reminder of SANZAR superiority over their Six Nations rivals, but not now.

The Kiwis will arrive with a target on their heads and England will believe they can upset them

If Ireland can overtake the All Blacks in the rankings, it will cap an emphatic transformation, with England and Wales also standing above South Africa and Australia in the current chart.

The Springboks are the first visitors to Twickenham on Saturday and their victory over the world champions in Wellington was a vivid illustration of their revival under Rassie Erasmus, but it remains a work in progress.

Their results have been patchy. Their win in the New Zealand capital was a triumph of spirit and tenacity under pressure, but they were abject during defeats in Argentina and Australia, so their away form has been largely unconvincing.

As for the Wallabies, they are in utter disarray. Beleagured head coach Michael Cheika is facing relentless criticism for presiding over a slump. They are there for the taking.

Wales must beat them this time. Likewise England. Even Italy will fancy their chances against these 'Wobblies'.

With Argentina's tentative revival also yet to fully ignite, they are vulnerable too. This November should belong to the north.

South Africa celebrate during their win over New Zealand in Wellington back in September

Christian Wade has finally confirmed that he is seeking a new career in American football. The former Wasps and England wing recognises the magnitude of the task he faces, to earn a shot in the NFL.

'I know I've got a huge mountain to climb,' he told the BBC. 'I've just got to work my butt off to see if I can get to the level that is required. I'm a fan of the NFL, so I'm not really bothered about what team I play for, if I can get the opportunity.'

Good luck to him.

====== 2116 ========

PATRICK COLLINS ON HOW HIS FRIEND GLENN HODDLE WAS A TOP MANAGER AND GREAT PLAYER

Glenn Hoddle stood on the fringe of the crowd, nodding pleasantly to those who caught his eye. The occasion was a football function in London, and Glenn had been invited as a famous ‘face’.

As ever, he seemed a touch embarrassed by his fame. I asked him if he was still enjoying his role as television pundit. ‘It’s lovely,’ he said. ‘People are friendly, the work’s interesting. All I could ask, really.’

It was the ‘really’ that gave him away. ‘You have regrets, don’t you?’ I suggested. ‘About England and all that stuff.’ And he smiled.

26 Jun 1998: England coach Glenn Hoddle punches the air after seeing his team through to the knockout phase of the World Cup Finals in the group G game against Colombia at the Stade Felix Bollaert in Lens, France.

‘My face didn’t fit, did it?’ he said. ‘In many ways, I was a bit too honest. Yeah, that’s it. Too honest.’

I wanted to suggest he had also been too naive, but Glenn was a nice man and he really didn’t need reminding.

‘All that stuff’ had been his genuine belief that the sick were paying a price for sins committed in an earlier existence. He expressed these ideas when he managed England, and after a national outcry – joined by the then Prime Minister Tony Blair – it cost him his job.

He had filed it away in his head as an excess of candour, yet it carried the whiff of eccentricity. And while the English may love their eccentrics, they do not like to see them managing the national team.

But for decades after his ethical disaster, Glenn lived with his folly.

He was strange, weird, some said. A laughing stock for those who remembered the details of the debacle, even if many others see him in a different light. Indeed, as the sporting nation struggles with the news of his suspected heart attack and prays for his recovery, it is his services to the sport as a great player and a fine manager that come to the fore.

In 1990 Glenn Hoddle played for Tottenham Hotspur

When youngsters wanted to know just what made Glenn Hoddle so very special, their fathers would search out a 20-second film clip. Tottenham versus Watford, on a sandy bog of a pitch at Vicarage Road.

A tall, long-legged young man receives a short pass at the angle of the penalty area. An indolent turn embarrasses a defender, then a glance assesses the possibilities. The right foot swings lazily, and suddenly, all is revealed. The effect is as if Tiger Woods had wafted a pitching wedge. The ball rises in a gentle arc, barely evading the keeper’s finger-tips as he scrambles uselessly. And it comes to rest in a corner of the net, as we knew it would. Only a blissfully blessed handful of footballers could have imagined such a goal. And, among Englishmen, perhaps only one could have scored it.

Glenn Hoddle achieved many things in his glorious career, but it was that stunning moment, which ensured that he will never be forgotten. Hard-headed judges will tell us that Hoddle never quite became the player he should have been, but that misses the point. For Hoddle had a talent to entrance. It is that mesmeric quality which will remain in the memory long after what Eric Cantona called ‘hewers of wood and drawers of water’ are forgotten.

Hoddle enjoyed a successful international career, playing in the final stages of two World Cups in the 1980s. He scored a few – a precious few – England goals, and he might have played longer and with still greater success had romance been valued beyond stern pragmatism. But he never lit up the national stage as he did when he ran out at the old White Hart Lane. He followed Spurs from the age of eight, made his first team debut at 17 and made magic with his beloved club until Arsene Wenger came along to take him to AS Monaco in 1987.

Nothing was ever the same for Hoddle the player, and a savage knee injury suffered in 1990 ensured that the rest of his career would prove an agonising struggle. But he had a vision, he believed the game could be beautiful, even when his idealism was widely derided. And it was as a manager that he started to put those ideals into practice.

He became Swindon manager in 1991, took them to the Premier League two years later, then moved to Chelsea, where his job was difficult and his successes were occasional.

It was as England manager, from May 1996, that his methods received rigorous scrutiny. He qualified for the World Cup finals with a draw with Italy, but he left Paul Gascoigne out of his squad, to public disapproval, then gave an indiscreet interview in which he spoke of his belief in faith healing and defended his extraordinary appointment of the faith healer Eileen Drewery to his coaching staff.

It brought Hoddle nothing but grief, and when he compounded his error by declaring that the disabled were being punished for sins committed in an earlier life, the derision was deafening. Blair was among his fiercest critics following that revelation and Hoddle was eventually dismissed by the FA in January 1999.

His career never quite recovered from the debacle, although he managed Southampton, his own, dear Spurs, and Wolves, all with moderate success. He finished at Wolves in 2006, and became a pundit, with ITV and later BT Sport, bringing a studious, sane appraisal to a craft which is too often shrill and glib.

An affable, engaging man, he was always prepared to speak at length about the game he revered, and his views were invariably considered. Yet whenever spoke about the theory of football, our mind always drifted back to the old days, to the time when he worked his wonders in the white shirts of Spurs and England. For he truly was a player for the ages, a craftsman whose skills were such that the great Johan Cruyff, after one match for Feyenoord against Tottenham, went into the Spurs dressing room to beg Hoddle for that shirt.

But the finest, most enduring memorial to Hoddle will perhaps be found on muddied pitches where kids scamper and toil at the game they will grow to love.

And, from time to time, one of those children will try something deft and inventive, some small trick designed to baffle defenders and lift the spirits of the watchers.

And if it should come off, his father on the touchline will shake his head and suppress a smile, and bawl at the child: ‘Who d’you think you are? Glenn Hoddle?’

====== 2117 ========

CAN HARRY KANE AND HARRY MAGUIRE STEP IT UP AGAINST SPAIN?

I played at the Bernabeu Stadium only once in my career so I'm proud to say I have a 100 per cent record.

For England to beat Spain 4-2 in their own back yard was a terrific result and one that stayed with all of us from that night.

Gary Lineker rightly took the plaudits because of his four goals but it was a fantastic performance against a big, tough Spain side who had some uncompromising players at the time such as Jose Camacho and Rafael Gordillo, who could be quite nasty, and Juan Carlos Arteche.

Tony Adams produced one of the best debuts I'd seen at that level in the win over Spain

For England to beat Spain 4-2 in their own back yard was terrific and it stayed with all of us

Gary was at Barcelona and had scored a hat-trick against Real Madrid a month earlier so the Barcelona papers even reported 'Catalan player scores four against Spain' the next day, which was odd.

Some reports said we adopted a counter-attacking style but after going one down we had to go at them.

Emilio Butragueno had put them in front. He was a quality finisher, known as 'The Vulture' who went on to captain Spain and Real Madrid.

I remember he came over afterwards and asked me to swap shirts. I've given a few away to charity over the years but his is one I've kept and treasured.

There weren't too many fans there on the night but it was still a good atmosphere.

Gary Lineker rightly took the plaudits because of his four goals but it was a fantastic display

The rain was pretty heavy and though the pitch looked rough it made for a quick game as the ball zipped across the surface.

When you look through that team, we weren't built to defend but in Peter Beardsley we had one of the best defensive forwards I ever played with and a young Tony Adams was making his debut.

Beardsley was a bit like Ryan Giggs in that he would track back and had the ability to slide tackle defenders and come away with the ball.

It still grates a little that Manchester United never kept Beardsley. He came to us for a short spell but Ron Atkinson let him go because we were well stocked for strikers.

When he was starring at Liverpool I remember thinking what a miss that was.

He gave the Spanish defence a torrid time that night and Tony Adams produced one of the best debuts I'd seen at that level.

I'd like to see captain Harry Kane emulate Gary Lineker in Seville on Monday night

This is a chance for Harry Maguire to show he deserves recognition on the world stage

I was sitting near him in the dressing room afterwards and told him, 'that was a fantastic debut, outstanding'.

He played as he did for Arsenal, totally unruffled. You could see beforehand he had nerves but he took everything in his stride.

Whenever we play against Spain it is a good barometer to see what standard our players are at.

There is a high benchmark required to compete against them and I'd like to see Harry Kane and Harry Maguire emulate Lineker and Adams.

They both had good World Cups yet have not started the season so well. This is a chance to show they deserve recognition on the world stage.

There has been criticism that England didn't perform against the better sides they faced in Russia, that they flattered to deceive... that should be their motivation on Monday night.

Bryan Robson was speaking to Simon Jones

====== 2118 ========

GARY LINEKER 'NUMPTY' SLUR ABOUT JUSTIN ROSE'S POPULAR CADDIE RULED OUT OF BOUNDS

BBC sports presenter Gary Lineker has infuriated the golf community by calling Justin Rose's popular caddie Mark Fulcher 'an absolute numpty'.

The social media spat started after Lineker, whose one failure as a broadcaster has been hosting golf, responded to the Americans making a good start to the Ryder Cup in the opening fourballs by tweeting: 'This is all going a bit pear-shaped.'

Fulcher, who has had previous disagreements with Lineker on Twitter over politics, responded following Europe's whitewash of the Americans in the afternoon foursomes: 'Wrong again … fool.'

Gary Lineker sparked a row after calling Justin Rose's popular caddie a 'numpty' on Twitter

Lineker retorted: 'The fool is right about this though: it's extraordinary that a decent human being like @JustinRose99 would have a complete numpty as a caddie.'

Numerous golf fans were hugely unimpressed with Lineker's opinion. Fooch, as he is known, is considered one of the best bagmen in the game and has been alongside Rose throughout his rise to become world No 1, Olympic champion, US Open winner and FedEx Cup champion.

Ross Fisher, a member of the winning Ryder Cup team in 2010, summed up public opinion, tweeting: 'Numpty, really. Is this the same Fooch. I'd say you must be talking about another Fooch as you obviously haven't met JR's caddie. Top bloke, great caddie.'

Rose and his caddie Mark Fulcher (right) during the singles match on the final day of Ryder Cup

When Phil Mickelson stabbed captain Tom Watson in the front after the American team lost at Gleneagles in 2014, it went down in golfing folklore.

Yet despite the Americans suffering a heavier defeat than they did in Scotland, Mickelson couldn't have been more supportive of Jim Furyk on Sunday night.

Sky Sports, who have a policy of not paying over their valuation for TV rights, have still to agree a deal for the 2019 Masters.

So there might be some time before a decision has to be made on whether Sarah Stirk or Nick Dougherty will succeed David Livingstone as the Sky anchor for the big golf events.

Sarah Stirk will have to wait to see if she will become the Sky anchor for the big golf events

The closing ceremony at the Ryder Cup has been scrapped with no complaints from either side — except those who like the biennial showcase of the USA's Stepford Wives.

Instead, there is a trophy presentation on the 18th green, which creates a far better atmosphere and is more crowd friendly. Although it has to be said it wasn't as slick as the Champions League presentation on which the format was based.

Ryder Cup Europe also brought forward the winners' press conference to ensure the players weren't too far into their celebrations. Even so, the team were welcomed into the room with a glass of champagne.

Hooray for Moliwood

Moliwood stars Tommy Fleetwood and Francesco Molinari are well placed to make the most of their four-match unbeaten Ryder Cup partnership at Le Golf National. Golf agent Clare Craig, who is both wife and manager of Fleetwood, is also a former manager of Molinari.

And the Italian's historic five points at the Ryder Cup now gives his country a golfing fairytale on which to base their promotion of the tournament in 2022, which has had a troubled start.

Francesco Molinari and Tommy Fleetwood are well placed to benefit from stunning Ryder Cup

Racing tsar JP McManus is likely to pay whatever it takes to bring the 2026 Ryder Cup to his County Limerick course Adare Manor.

Although seeing him walking around Le Golf National incognito underneath a baseball cap, you wouldn't think he was one of Europe's richest men and almost as influential in golf as he is in horse racing.

Tiger Woods has already committed to playing in JP's pro-am at Adare Manor in 2020.

Acclaimed radio football commentator Ron Jones left the BBC over a decade ago and called his final match for Irish station Today FM Sport last May. But Ron's Welsh tones have illuminated the on-course Ryder Cup radio coverage this week.

====== 2119 ========

EDDIE HEARN: AJ WANTS WILDER NEXT... BUT WE NEED A DEAL FROM HIS TEAM IN SIX WEEKS

That was a stunning fight after what can only be called the worst camp ever.

Firstly, the fight. I had Anthony Joshua a couple of rounds up at the time of the stoppage but I can understand why some might have it even – it was some fight.

Joshua took a big shot at the end of the first but what really impressed, I think, is the composure he showed. He stayed with the task and when his chance came he did what he does so well. It was a fantastic finish to stop a hard man in Alexander Povetkin, who had never been stopped before.

Anthony Joshua struggled with injury in the build-up to the Alexander Povetkin fight last week

Joshua overcame some early issues to finish Povetkin in the seventh round at Wembley

After the camp Joshua had, it was a great outcome. To give you some idea of what he's dealt with, he had a back problem after about two weeks, and eight weeks out it was 50-50 over whether he would even be able to fight. It got to the point where he said he was struggling to walk.

Then three weeks out he had a problem with his elbow and a week out he got the flu. His nose was all bunged up for a bit of fight week and as a promoter you start to fear the worst when the problems pile up like that.

Then, on fight night itself, he puts his thumb through the glove about three minutes before the walk-on. Then he gets another glove, gets re-taped, and it isn't right. So then he gets another and it is a case of getting him out of the changing room. It was mad. You factor in Povetkin landing that uppercut and left hook at the end of the first and you do worry if it is going to be your night.

But champions come through things like this and he has. Increasingly it is hard for people to find fault with this guy.

Eddie Hearn insists that Deontay Wilder is the aim for AJ's next fight in April at Wembley

Joshua lands a left on Povetkin on his way to victory in front of 80,000 adoring fans

Next up, we have to wait and see. As I've said, we want to fight Deontay Wilder to see if we can find an undisputed heavyweight champion of the world.

The wider picture is that our next mandatory is the WBO and then after that it is the IBF. We would likely be granted an exemption with the WBA for April 13 even if it isn't a unification with Wilder, and as we've said before, Dillian Whyte is an option. Right now I would say it is even money between it being Whyte or Wilder but we do want Wilder.

He says he is fighting Tyson Fury on December 1 but we cannot wait until that fight to make our decision on AJ's career. I would like to know where we are with Wilder's team in the next five or six weeks because we cannot really go longer than that.

Wilder (above) is set to face Fury next, and if he beats the Gypsy King Joshua could be after

Hearn 'would like to know where we are with Wilder's team in the next five or six weeks'

I would make an offer to Wilder's team on the assumption of him beating Fury. I obviously get that Wilder's value goes up if he wins that fight, so the offer will reflect that.

We started contact again about a week ago after not hearing anything for a while. We have made an agreement with them in the past and signed our end, but now we need to make progress on a new agreement for April if it is going to happen.

Believe me, it is the fight we want and I do think there is a good chance we will make a deal.

====== 2120 ========

VERY CLEVER OF ANTHONY JOSHUA TO CHANGE HIS STYLE... AND ALEXANDER POVETKIN FELL RIGHT INTO HIS TRAP

It will be a huge pity if we don't recognise the scale of what Anthony Joshua achieved on Saturday night.

He dismantled one of the toughest guys in the sport, a guy who had never been stopped before and is justifiably regarded as the No 3 heavyweight in the world.

I feared the worst the way the fight started. I said in Saturday's Sportsmail that Povetkin would rush out, but I expected Joshua to withstand the initial onslaught better.

Anthony Joshua must be applauded for how he dismantled one of the toughest guys

Povetkin was on point. He was Mike Tyson-esque, head down, fast, explosive, a heavyweight at the peak of his powers and he came into the ring to finish business.

There were whispers that Joshua was feeling under the weather and that looked to be the case as it unravelled.

A few have said the nature of such a long ring walk leaves him cold but I believe he thrives on that atmosphere, of 80,000 people jumping, shouting for him.

The key was Joshua changed his style. He hasn't boxed liked that before. He dropped his height, almost stooping and creeping forward to give Povetkin a different-shaped target to consider and dropped his hands, jabbing to the body.

Povetkin managed to sneak through the defence of Joshua in the early rounds on Saturday

The problem was, as Joshua got accustomed to the change, Povetkin took the initiative. I said to my co-commentator Matthew Macklin, 'I don't like the look of this', and he said the same. Ultimately, though, it proved a clever tactic.

You see, when you get hit, the instinct is to follow it back. Povetkin would hit Joshua expecting to draw out his jab in response, then hit under it. Instead, Joshua restrained himself and targeted the jab to the body, to bring Povetkin's guard down.

As he said, he knew Povetkin could take blows to the head but not the body. Eventually it was Povetkin who fell into his trap and, as he dropped his hands, Joshua found his mark with a right.

You have to give him immense credit. He's not had long in this game but he has learned everything except how to handle defeat and I don't see that coming soon, so long as he stays mentally strong. I can see Joshua beating Deontay Wilder, Tyson Fury and Dillian Whyte.

Joshua adapted after Povetkin's strong start by dropping his height and targeting the body

With boxing politics and the nature of negotiations, I believe Whyte is the most realistic next opponent on April 13.

Joshua is the No 1 heavyweight, the big draw, it's just Wilder and Fury don't realise that when it comes to talking money.

Fury is the one who could prove the most difficult but he'd have to improve on what he is at the moment and on that basis I don't see him beating Wilder in December.

Fury is the fighter you can't really train for because he is so unpredictable. You just don't know what's going to come out and that's what makes him all the more dangerous.

I can see Joshua beating Deontay Wilder if the two were to fight at Wembley on April 13

Joshua's greatest opponent, though, could be himself. He looked tired ahead of this fight. The 10 weeks in camp killed him, he'd had enough. He needs to go away, rest, get some normality back but, importantly, stay gym-fit.

There is a real danger he'll want to blow out the way Naseem Hamed used to, but this is a crucial stage for his legacy and he doesn't want to be fluctuating massively in weight.

Everyone wants him as a prize. Not just Wilder, Fury and Whyte, there will be an unknown out there following his every move, plotting how they can become the next heavyweight champion of the world.

He's the man everyone aspires to beat. That brings pressure and demands a unique mental toughness. He's got it all, yet he's got it all to lose.

Johnny Nelson was talking to Simon Jones

====== 2121 ========

IT'S ALL HAIL THE HALO NOW... IT'S HARD TO ARGUE AGAINST ITS EFFICACY

It is all hail the halo now. It is hard to argue against its efficacy given how Charles Leclerc’s life was saved by the protection it offered in the Belgian Grand Prix. Saving lives fits the temper of the times.

Having walked away unscathed after Fernando Alonso’s McLaren bounced off the titanium protection, Leclerc said: ‘I was never a fan of the halo, but I have to say I was very happy to have it over my head today.’

In the name of balance we should record the traditionalist’s argument that the ugly device, though not as repulsive as feared, gnaws at the soul of open-cockpit motor racing. Sir Stirling Moss embraced danger and has a medical record of remedial surgery to prove it. His mantra is: put up more trees and then try to avoid them. He hates the halo and always will.

Toto Wolff, the Mercedes team principal, once said he would like to take a chainsaw to it. Now, it would take a brave man to say that today.

Charles Leclerc (bottom) walked away unscathed after Fernando Alonso’s car bounced off halo

Leclerc admitted he was grateful for the halo on Sunday, despite initial reservations on it

Alonso's car narrowly avoided Leclerc's head and instead bounced off the halo on Sunday

There is a degree of naivety in the shrill criticism of Lawrence Stroll’s expected placement of his son Lance in a Force India race seat after his takeover of the team.

Some people are suddenly impassioned supporters of Esteban Ocon, fretting that he will be moved aside for nepotistic convenience.

I share some of those concerns, for Ocon is a better driver than Lance. But a handful of considerations smudge black and white together into a more blurred picture.

First, Lance is not alone in being helped up the ladder. Which driver is not a beneficiary of a wealthy donor, albeit not always a rich father? Lewis Hamilton, who came from an impoverished background, was bankrolled through his teenage development by his own sugar daddy, Ron Dennis, and arrived on the Formula One grid the most lavishly prepared driver in history. Ocon himself is advantaged by being on Mercedes’ books and managed by Toto Wolff, the most powerful man in the sport.

There's a degree of naivety in shrill criticism of Lawrence Stroll’s expected placement of son

Secondly, Ocon is not a Schumacher or a Senna or a Hamilton. He is a very decent driver indeed, but not a putative legend. Those golden handful announce themselves like gods. As Hamilton did in 2007, admittedly in a better car than Ocon is driving. Ocon performed well at the weekend but finished a place (sixth) behind his team-mate Sergio Perez, who, incidentally, is worthy of his seat regardless of the Mexican money he brings in.

Thirdly, if Wolff cut Ocon’s umbilical cord to Mercedes, the Frenchman would be welcomed at McLaren – problem solved.

Fourthly, Formula One is a fierce business and money counts. That is not a bad thing; it is an inevitability and a positive in that it keeps the whole imperfect sport afloat.

Fifthly, Lawrence Stroll, a billionaire, is as free as the next man to spend his money as he wishes. He wanted to buy a Formula One team and he has. In doing so, he has saved 400-plus Force India jobs in the Midlands that were threatened by the administration from which his buyout lifted the team.

Why are his detractors so picky about their saviours?

Lance Stroll is expected in a Force India race seat following his dad's takeover of the team

The soundtracks of our sporting childhoods were the commentaries of great voices: David Coleman’s emotive yodel, John Arlott’s bucolic burr, Murray Walker’s demented pyrotechnics.

There were others, though the first-lap crash on Sunday brought Murray to mind. It was at Spa 20 years ago that the field pinged around the track like pinballs on the extraordinary rain-slicked dart from the start line. In the same race, Michael Schumacher drove through the mist into the back of David Coulthard. ‘Oh, God!’ exclaimed Murray, his pants fully on fire.

I am not sure anyone today can match that kind of intonation (please, listen to it on YouTube). We shall not hear their like again.

====== 2122 ========

REFEREE NESTOR PITANA WAS SPOT ON WITH VAR - IVAN PERISIC HANDLED THE BALL DELIBERATELY

Croatia, masters of the dark arts, were initially undone by a dive which fooled Nestor Pitana, the Argentinian referee.

Antoine Griezmann anticipated a foul by Marcelo Brozovic and flung his legs out behind himself. The way both his legs flew out was a real tell-tale sign for any experienced match official so I was surprised Pitana was taken in.

That free-kick led to the first goal. Some questioned whether it should have stood with Paul Pogba in an offside position. He didn't touch the ball and wasn't interfering with play so the goal was rightly allowed.

Ref Nestor Pitana got the big decision right during the World Cup final with France's penalty

They were awarded a penalty after a VAR review adjudged Ivan Perisic to have handled the ball

Olivier Giroud (right) and Lucas Hernandez were among the French players calling for a pen

Later in the half France took a corner which Blaise Matuidi flicked on and the ball was knocked out of play by Ivan Perisic who appeared to use his hand. Pitana and his on-field team were unsighted and, as it was a serious offence which was not seen, it was correct to review it.

VAR did its job in suggesting that the on-field referee look at replays and decide for himself.

Disappointingly there appeared to be technological issues when Pitana went to watch those replays.

There was plenty of debate around what constitutes deliberate handball but the movement of the arm to the ball means it was deliberate and a penalty was the correct decision.

Pitana reviews footage of the incident thanks to VAR as play is halted for him to see it back

====== 2123 ========

LUKA MODRIC SHOWED A NEED TO TWEAK GARETH SOUTHGATE'S BACK THREE

It has been wonderful to enjoy England again at a major tournament. And to see them playing out from the back restoring our faith in the fact that English teams can do so.

We know that back home they restored a lot of pride and brought some unity to the country. They have changed the way the players are viewed and have given everyone some hope in the national team.

Gareth Southgate should take immense credit for all of the above, and partly for devising a system that suited these players. We don’t really have the kind of midfielder who controls the tempo of a game or who threads through little creative passes, like Philippe Coutinho or Luka Modric. So he had to make the best use of our running strengths from midfield with Dele Alli and Jesse Lingard.

England have once again been enjoyable to watch at a major tournament in Russia this summer

Gareth Southgate should take immense credit for devising a system that suited these players

The back three allowed Harry Maguire to shine and bring the ball out, as did John Stones, though I’d still like to have seen him playing on the right side of defence so that he had even more opportunities to do that. Harry Kane could take the Golden Boot, we got through a penalty shootout and won two knock-out games, so there’s much to be positive about.

Of course, Gareth Southgate and the players will forever rue a missed opportunity. One-nil up at half-time and hanging on with 22 minutes to play took them close to football’s ultimate game.

I’m sure the staff will know things they could have changed in the second half. The most obvious one was that while the 3-5-2 shape worked well for us against lesser opposition, it became 5-3-2 against better teams. And then it lost its effectiveness. All systems have their achilles heel and, as a big advocate of the back three, I’m well aware of how it can go wrong.

It is what happened in the second half when Ante Rebic and Ivan Perisic started getting on the front foot. Suddenly Kieran Trippier and Ashley Young were forced into full-back positions, almost for the first time in the tournament. England’s back three then ended up marking one man in Mario Mandzukic.

But the 3-5-2 formation became 5-3-2 against better teams and then it lost its effectiveness

England lack the kind of midfielder who controls the tempo of a game like Luka Modric

Kieran Trippier and Ashley Young were forced into full-back positions by Croatia's wingers

The fact that Trippier and Young were pushed back meant there was space for Sime Vrsaljko, the Croatia right-back, to push on. (You didn’t see it as much from Ivan Strinic, the left-back, as he was carrying an injury.) So Alli then had to shuttle across to cover his left flank as well as trying to deal with Luka Modric and Ivan Rakitic. He covered an extraordinary 9.7 miles in the game, 4.2 miles off the ball; more than anyone other than Marcelo Brozovic. So there was even more space for Modric to operate in.

With everyone deep and Dele preoccupied with an extra man, England couldn’t muster an attacking threat. Which meant that man Modric simply got more and more of the ball, and England were just hanging on.

It needed a change before Croatia scored their second goal. Raheem Sterling and Harry Kane were still playing as a front two, when Sterling should have been told to come across and stop Vrsaljko’s runs. When Marcus Rashford came on I thought that was where he would have played. But he more or less played in the same position as Sterling.

The other way to change is to switch to a back four when you’re defending, with Kyle Walker coming out to right back. That allows Kieran Trippier to move up and supplements your midfield, which supports Dele. You would get Lingard to harry their holding midfielder and that way you’re not outnumbered.

Dele Alli had to shuttle across to cover as well as dealing with both Modric and Ivan Rakitic

Raheem Sterling (pictured) or Marcus Rashford should have been asked to help out at the back

Gareth Southgate will have a plan for next time and against Spain next is the perfect challenge

As soon as you win the ball back you can morph into a back three again, with Maguire pushing up a bit alongside Walker with Stones as the sweeper. Trippier and Young are then conventional wing-backs again. I used that system in a friendly game against Portugal in 1998 with David Beckham and Graeme Le Saux as wing-backs.

Knowing Gareth Southgate, he’ll have a plan for next time. Coincidentally, the next two games in UEFA’s new Nations League are against Croatia and Spain.

So it’s the perfect time to try something new. Spain will have more possession than us so it’s a perfect chance to work out how to beat the better teams.

Overall, Southgate and Steve Holland deserve huge credit for devising a system which has all but ended the problems we used to have against lesser sides when we used to find ourselves not creating chances and not getting opportunities. Now let’s take the next step and see off the better teams.

Let’s hope for a great game to finish the World Cup on a high

There hasn’t been a great team at this World Cup, nor a truly great individual. Which is curious because it feels as though it has been an excellent competition. I think that’s because we’ve seen so many good games, from Spain against Portugal, Germany against Mexico and Sweden, Argentina against Croatia and Nigeria and then against France in the last 16. Then there was Belgium against Japan and their superb clash with Brazil...

And we’ve seen some great moments from Kylian Mbappe. Not enough to call him a true great. He didn’t quite do enough in the semi-final, but he is only 19. His performance against Argentina was excellent. The run he made for the penalty put me in mind of Michael Owen’s against Argentina in 1998 when he burst on the world scene.

Mbappe created the greatest buzz among the fans here when he got the ball and in that respect he outshone Lionel Messi, Cristiano Ronaldo and Neymar, who went home early.

N’Golo Kante has been outstanding in all aspects of his game and has had a superb World Cup

For Croatia, a nation of four million people, to win the World Cup on Sunday would be historic

France played well against Argentina but there’s still a feeling that there’s more to come. We’ve not quite seen the best of Paul Pogba and Antoine Griezmann. But N’Golo Kante has been outstanding — not just doing defensive work but carrying the ball 30 yards from midfield. He’s had a superb World Cup.

France are favourites today. Croatia did so well to stay in the game on Wednesday and then come again, with Luka Modric, who couldn’t get a kick in the first half, but was supreme after the break. England should have troubled them more, and I suspect a better France midfield will.

For Croatia, a nation of four million, to win would be historic. For France, it would be a powerful response after losing that Euro 2016 final in Paris. I just hope we get an excellent game to cap a very good tournament.

====== 2124 ========

PELE CAME FROM ANOTHER PLANET... IN FRANCE STAR KYLIAN MBAPPE I SEE THE SAME GENIUS

He will wear the jersey of France on Sunday but he plays for all of us - like the very greatest of sportsmen, a Pele or an Ali, there can be no boundaries.

That is exactly how I feel about Kylian Mbappe, the 19-year-old destined to be the new global king of our beautiful game.

You hear about some wonderkid or other, you glimpse shots of him doing clever things in big matches; there is the mindboggling transfer to PSG then the World Cup stage and you acknowledge we are watching someone truly unique.

France star Kylian Mbappe is destined to be the new global king of our beautiful game

Some of Mbappe's performances at the World Cup have evoked memories of Brazil legend Pele

It was the same the first time I watched Pele, then a 17-year-old playing in a World Cup final. He was captivating then and that initial impression never changed.

Pele was prodigious, a one-off. He played for Brazil but surely we all thought he came from another planet.

There have been awesome talents since, Johann Cruyff, Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi for sure but for me, and I suspect the majority who grew up with him, only one Pele.

Roll the years forward and the penny clicks again - the look, the style, the speed, the control, truly out of this world. Mbappe.

Mbappe is truly out of this world with his style, speed and control tormenting defenders

The young Frenchman will know of Pele of course. Thanks to modern technology he will have been able to watch videos of the great man at work, going back all the way to the final of ‘58 which most of us peered at on little screens in black and white.

Mbappe as a person is a stranger to me but he comes across as Pele did. For all the honours and idolatry bestowed on him, Pele was no big-time Charlie but modest with fame.

Mbappe appears to have that similar calm outlook on life, certainly on the field, and that is the only way I can judge him. I like the look.

His football skill is what matters most and is wonderfully similar to Pele’s, devastating to the opposition; unstoppable, unmatchable, performed at frightening but controlled speed of feet and mind and at its peak unplayable.

Like Pele, Mbappe is extremely skillful and also knows how to protect himself under pressure

Like Pele he knows intuitively how to protect himself and in doing that generally wins the advantage.

He knows what he can do, what he wants to do, which basically is what every other player wants to do but struggles to and most can’t get near.

The effect Pele had on the game worldwide and on professionals like myself was considerable and in time it will be the same I think for Mbappe.

Every opportunity I have had to watch Pele live I have taken, going back to ‘66. I failed to make Sir Alf’s final England squad but I made the trip to Goodison to watch Brazil and Pele, lose as it happens, to Portugal.

LAST FIVE WORLD CUP GOLDEN BALL WINNERS 2014 - Lionel Messi (Argentina) 2010 - Diego Forlan (Uruguay) 2006 - Zinedine Zidane (France) 2002 - Oliver Kahn (Germany) 1998 - Ronaldo (Brazil)

There is a lesson here too that proves how quickly teams can emerge from defeat. The ‘66 Brazil team wasn’t their best, they did not get out of their group and Pele was hammered into the turf by the roughest of tackling.

Four years later we watched mesmerised by what I consider to be the greatest Brazil team of them all, it means the best ever, led by Pele and his attack partner Tostao, the original and most brilliant fox in the box.

Mbappe is turning heads now with runs like we have witnessed in Russia - from one 18-yard line to the other at speed and, as I have said, runs that are unplayable. There are the flicks, the shots, the goals. It is the speed of it all under Mbappe’s control that is the key.

There have never been faster, pacier finals; rarely have we admired more athletic, super-fit footballers. In my professional lifetime we have gone from subbuteo football of the fifties to Formula One speed. It is epitomised by the opener between Spain and Portugal, a 3-3 draw that left the world game breathless as the marker for what we have seen game after game.

The effect Pele had on the game has been considerable and it could be the same for Mbappe

What has happened has been evolutionary rather than revolutionary. It has developed by players being convinced, forced, by their coaches that to be better, to win the prizes it can be achieved not just by being comfortable with the ball but if they are also faster and fitter than the opposition.

Malcolm Allison my old friend, now gone, brought in Derek Ibbotson, the great British middle distance runner, to introduce Olympian standards of fitness AND speed to the Manchester City team Malcolm coached with Joe Mercer.

When Malcolm and myself joined forces at Crystal Palace we had the same Beat the Clock training ideals. I used another Olympian Ron Jones as I have said in previous columns to make footballers train with 220m sprints.

They hated it at Palace, Queens Park Rangers, Barcelona and Tottenham. They hated it until they realised they had become so fit they could whistle in training just as Mo Farah now can when he is demolishing world records and winning gold medals.

It is time to relax, sit back and enjoy a Final that others can worry and fret about. There is enough talent, in prospect at least, to illuminate the brilliance of our game.

Terry Venables was talking to Alex Montgomery

====== 2125 ========

GARETH SOUTHGATE DOESN'T BECOME A FAILURE OR A GENIUS AFTER WORLD CUP

Right, before we start, a little housekeeping. I don’t know how much thought anyone gives to how this stuff works but, obviously, this column cannot be compiled in a matter of minutes. It might be published on Thursday morning, but it isn’t written then. There isn’t time. It is written on Wednesday, maybe read through first thing the next day to make sure events haven’t overtaken it. So this week, there is a problem. A small matter of a World Cup semi-final on Wednesday night. I appreciate nobody wants to talk anything but England, but also that there is no opportunity to write after the result of the match with Croatia is known. So here’s the compromise. We’ll debate England, but not England versus Croatia. The manager, but not through the prism of victory or defeat last night. I feel the job he has done is bigger than that anyway. Southgate doesn’t become a failure or a genius on the back of one match. This is about a body of work over a far longer period of time. Speaking of which…

Thanks to Gareth Southgate, I think this should put an end to the debate over whether we should ever appoint a foreign manager again. There are Englishmen out there capable of doing the job, in fact the Football Association should already be thinking about the future, getting the right people involved and in the right positions. I hope the current manager stays for a few years yet but we should never again find ourselves in a position where we are so short of credible candidates. Lee14, Bristol.

I agree, Lee, although it isn’t quite as simple as that. Yes, the England manager should be English, but it won’t always be possible to have him in waiting as Southgate was, unless you want his successor to be Aidy Boothroyd. Take a guy like Eddie Howe. If it was proposed he left Bournemouth to work for the FA as Southgate’s long-term successor, he would probably say no. What if the next campaign did not go well? Would there be the same appetite for another Southgate-style in-house candidate as there is now? Howe might worry that he would leave a Premier League job with prospects and end up overlooked. Better to stay at Bournemouth, maybe get a bigger club, and come to the national job from outside. So while I agree wholeheartedly with your sentiments, I’m not sure what has happened here can be easily replicated – or, frankly, that Southgate was considered a ‘credible candidate’ as you put it when he was first given the job. The reaction was quite negative at the time.

Being England manager has, for many years, been a poisoned chalice. Berny, Dover.

But has it, Berny? I’ve never bought into this idea that it’s the impossible job. I think that’s a handy excuse when people make a mess of it.

A journalist has to have the shortest memory of all professions; forever contradicting themselves. Herehere, Cotswold.

Or sometimes they use a database of previous articles to go back and double check what they've previously written... KJM, Geneva.

Indeed, so that idiot posters from the Cotswolds cannot catch them out. It is possible to change one’s mind on a topic or an individual – as I have on the wearing of poppies on England shirts and Jordan Henderson’s value to the national team – and it would be foolish to be stubborn. However, the reason I am so meticulous about my database – everything I’ve written since 2002 – is because I also wish to be consistent. I can type in a name, or a key word, and bring up everything I’ve said on that subject. So if my view has changed – and on most things, it hasn’t, but there are exceptions – I can at least contextualise it. That’s how I know I have been supportive of most of Southgate’s judgement calls – playing the second team against Belgium was the exception – in his last year building up to this tournament.

He should leave at the top because after this the only way is down. His best bet is to enjoy the adulation for a month or so and then pack it in before the likes of Martin Samuel stick the knife in over his next squad selections, and the tabloids camp on his doorstep looking for any sign of trouble at home. Jimbo, Lincolnshire.

Gareth Southgate's appointment as England boss was met with a negative response by some

Why would I criticise Southgate’s squad selections? We’ve agreed on just about everything so far. And even if I did, what would he care? He’s taken England the deepest they’ve ever gone in a foreign World Cup. He probably backs his own judgment by now.

I would like to apologise to Gareth. When he got the job I, like thousands of other fans, were not happy with the appointment. I think it was down mainly to his poor record as a club manager and also the poor track record of the FA in choosing England managers. I was completely wrong and Gareth has shown the world that he is the perfect manager for England who, it is to be hoped, will continue to flourish under him. But please no more of this sex symbol stuff: we don't need Gareth appearing on Love Island or winning rear of the year. Yabadabadooo, United Kingdom.

Hold on, mate, are you actually taking responsibility for your own thoughts, rather than blaming it all on the influence of the media? Look everyone, a grown-up. How quaint.

OK, I'm happy for you English but it’s nonsense like this that turns the rest of the British against you. I'm sure a quick Google search will come up with a Daily Mail headline in the past 18-24 months on how or why no-one would want the England job. Swiss Tony, Switzerland.

Maybe so. But it wouldn’t be written by me. I’ve always noted how, despite it being called the impossible job, the incumbent invariably has to be dragged out of office by his ankles or only quits once the position is utterly untenable and we’ve lost to Iceland or failed to make it to the tournament at all.

I remember when Southgate got the job not a single comment wished him well and most said the FA were a joke. The only reason people are acting all nice and giving him credit now is because of how far England have got in this World Cup. Going forward he can’t achieve much more so when England go out earlier in the next tournaments, they’ll be shouting, ‘Southgate out’. Tyson4000, Manchester.

Not sure about that Tyson. I think people accept this is a young team, that certain circumstances came together for England in Russia and that getting this far is never easy. England went out in the quarter-finals in 1970, having won in 1966, and did not even qualify in 1994 having reached the semi-finals in 1990. I think as long as England keep having a go as they have here, people will be realistic. The sensible ones, anyway.

To be considered as a genuine champion and not a default champion, England must beat at least one of Holland, Italy, Spain, Brazil, Argentina, France or Germany in the World Cup – the traditional power houses of football. Tayop, London.

How were they meant to beat Holland or Italy, when they didn’t even qualify? How were they meant to be beat Germany when they didn’t get out of their group. And how were they meant to beat Spain, Argentina or Brazil when they ended up in a different part of the draw, and those teams were eliminated by Russia, France and Belgium. You beat what is in front of you. You make it sound as if England got to pick their opponents. What I am finding laughable is the way every team is talked up – Tunisia are the best African team, Colombia the dark horses, Sweden the vanquishers of Holland, Italy and Germany – until England beat them, when they are declared to be rubbish.

The problem is that, because we’ve exceeded all expectations, this World Cup will now be used by the media as a yardstick for Southgate at future tournaments. And we know how fickle football journalists can be the minute things start to go wrong. DAW20N, West Lancashire.

Kind of mirrors the fickle nature of fans doesn’t it? Jon, Lancaster.

Granted, fans can be fickle, but the majority love their clubs and stick with them through thick and thin. Can the same be said of the media when it comes to the England manager? History tells us not. DAW20N, West Lancashire.

Common sense also tell us that the job of football journalists is not to stick with any manager or team through thick and thin, but to be objective. We’re not employed as fans, but as observers and writers. So if England lose 4-0 to Spain, no, we’re not going to deliver the journalistic equivalent of football’s coming home. But nor are we going to demand the manager is sacked. We can see the job Southgate has done, but also that he won’t win every game. Joachim Low won the World Cup in 2014, and went out in the group stage in 2018. It is possible Germany needs a new voice, or a new direction – but the analysis will be measured, not hysterical, because that is what the man deserves. I think Southgate will be treated the same. We can’t polish a sequence of bad results, but we can apply context to any disappointments. Only a fool thinks that this World Cup becomes the yardstick for all future tournaments. The mood, the clarity of vision, the team identity, yes; the results, no. That would be unreasonable.

Imagine having to listen to the England band all the time; I’d be looking for a new job after one game. A Drunken Horse, United Kingdom.

Indeed. Anyway, this is how it should sound.

Martin Samuel will be the one calling for his head in two years. SeanUK, United Kingdom.

Doubt that. I’m not big on the ‘For God’s sake go!’ stuff. On occasions, I think the job has become untenable – Steve McClaren after failing to get to the 2008 European Championship, for instance – but I didn’t say Fabio Capello should be sacked in 2010, and supported him against the FA over John Terry. I like Southgate and agree with him on most things. I’m in no hurry to see change because I think he will keep developing this squad in the right way.

Football changed years ago, national management is no longer a part-time role. To be successful the edge must be found and this takes hard work and commitment from the whole team. BadPlanningAgain, London.

The way Southgate works I’d say it isn’t part time, because he has got such a lot to do developing national identity and bringing the next generation through, given that they are not getting a whole lot of opportunity at their clubs. But qualification is getting easier with a 24-team European Championship and, what will soon be a 48-team World Cup. Ironically, the more Southgate gets it right, the less there will be to do.

If Southgate stays as England manager, who's going to take over from Theresa May? Gareth, your country needs you. David, Manchester.

I know you are joking, David, but there is a serious point to be made here. We’ve all heard the observations that Southgate is so smart he should sort out Brexit, and we understand this is facetious exaggeration. What I think people are getting at deep down, however, is that we wish a person like Southgate could sort out Brexit – instead of this cabal of self-serving incompetents and clowns that were given the job. Can you imagine a man like Southgate calling in the photographers to capture him looking serious as he wrote his resignation letter, while the country went down the tubes? Could you imagine him having two years to come up with a plan like thick as mince David Davis and conjuring nothing?

People recognise the basic decency of Southgate, the antithesis of some of our politicians

Southgate leaves when people – the press - start getting the knives out and using them. Byway Blues, Surrey.

I love the way you lot give yourselves a free pass all the time. When the England players barricaded themselves in the dressing-room for fear of attack in 2007, it wasn’t the press they were worried about. And it wasn’t the press who booed many members of this England squad in Malta last September. It isn’t the press who made Raheem Sterling the worst player on the pitch, from either side, against Tunisia in the opening game either. So let’s not pretend England’s detractors are solely in the press box. One look at the comments on here will show there is plenty of negativity out there. Now, I realise the overwhelming majority feel positively about this campaign, but that is true in the media, too. It is you who presume the knives will come out. Most people who cover England feel very optimistic about the future.

In other words, the manager did virtually everything Martin Samuel would have done and as long as Southgate continues doing that he and his scavenger mates won't destroy him and the team as they have every team in the past. Richmac, Plymouth.

No, thicko, the manager did everything I would have done so it is hard to be critical of him, having been staunchly in agreement. That was my point. But it doesn’t mean I have to agree with every decision – I certainly didn’t agree with Capello picking Kevin Davies, but continued to support him – and to have a different opinion is not the same as calling for a manager to be dismissed. Funnily enough, the one person who understands this is Southgate. He knows he will never carry every journalist, or every fan. But it isn’t a case of ‘pick my team or I’ll write that you should be sacked’ because that is the most infantile nonsense.

Fleet Street calling for loyalty and pledging support when they will turn on him in a second if the form drops? Do things for the right reasons Gareth, if you want to do them. Don’t listen to this lot. Normal Guy, Midlands.

Ever thought I feel very much the same when I write this column?

Why would Southgate leave? Well, let's wait for one bad result and see the press rip him apart. The press are largely responsible for the England team playing with such inhibition and fear in the past 20 years. Grimupnorth111, Liverpool.

He’s had bad results and bad performances. No-one ripped anything. And the reason England teams play with inhibition and fear is as much to do with public reaction as press reaction – but mainly because managers like Sven Goran Eriksson lack imagination.

Aime Jacquet retired after winning the World Cup with France mostly because of his dislike of France’s media. The media apologised for harassing him before the tournament started, but he’d had enough. If Southgate succeeds I wont be surprised if he does the same thing. Roymchunter, Jakarta.

It wasn’t Jacquet versus the French media. It was one title, L’Equipe, that had been particularly critical of him. But they were not alone. Like the Russian team here, few expected the France of 1998 to have a good tournament. They didn’t have a world-class striker, they were considered too negative. Southgate, by contrast, had a brilliant, positive press going into this tournament. He certainly does not feel that the newspapers are against him.

Easy job when you draw Tunisia and Panama in the group and Sweden to make it to the semi-finals. Silvio, Roma.

It wasn’t easy for Italy, was it? Sweden knocked you out.

Just a thought: two years ago Chris Coleman got Wales to the semi final of the European Championships, a massive achievement. He is now out of a job. Don't believe the hype, Gareth – those parasite media will build you up, then stone you to death. Deanedwards10, Torquay.

So Coleman is out of work because of the media? You see, I thought what happened was he failed to reach the World Cup with Wales, realised he had gone as far as he could in international management and then made a poor choice of club, in Sunderland. They went down anyway, and were then taken over and the new owner did not want Coleman. Where does the ‘parasite’ media come in, Dean? And when was Coleman stoned to death – or are you just regurgitating second-hand clichés, you heard on some phone in, and are now parroting because you haven’t actually got an original thought in your head? And, by the way, Coleman is now the coach of Hebei China Fortune. He’s not unemployed. Keep up.

The press will slaughter any England manager if results don't go their way. Graham ‘Turnip’ Taylor; Steve ‘the Wally with the Brolly’ McClaren; Glenn Hoddle with his faith healer – the list goes on. Alan Wolves, Wolverhampton.

So, just to clarify, Alan – you were happy with those events? Untroubled that England failed to qualify for the 1994 World Cup or 2008 European Championships. Unperturbed that Hoddle was sending the players to a lady who claimed to have placed an invisible force field over both goals during the 0-0 draw with Italy in 1997? Or did the press reflect the feelings of the country at the time?

Elite European clubs will not be queuing to sign Southgate up as their manger, that's for sure. Daifey, London.

Well, for a start it’s too early for nativity scenes. Although with that beard he could make a good Joseph; or a wise man…

I'd suggest he'll leave because of the gutter press. They'll hound him like Bobby Robson or Graham Taylor, two thoroughly decent men who tried their best. The press as always think they know better. Enough of Liz Jones, United Kingdom.

I think ‘hounded’ is ridiculous. And don’t for one minute try to make out Taylor was liked by the public. He was a laughing stock. BaggsyB, Luxembourg.

There is a lot of revisionism about Taylor, particularly since his death. He was a very decent man, but a poor England manager and the idea that the public loved him while the nasty old press took against him is, as Baggsy says more eloquently, utter cobblers. If the public are so tolerant and indulgent of failure by England managers how come most are unemployable in this country in the years after they leave? McClaren had to flee the country to get a job and, even now, his appointment is seen as controversial. Roy Hodgson took more than a year to get back in and it needed Crystal Palace to be in a state of desperation. Sure, they love him at Selhurst Park now but at the time...

‘Please not Hodgson... Please! Laura Sallis… Can't believe it - never a dull moment - oh hang on it's Roy Hodgson. Tracey Murphy... Roy Hodgson - come off it- he couldn't beat Iceland let alone prem teams. Luke Constable… June: board strategy was passing, possession football with a long term manager. September: looks like we will appoint Roy Hodgson. Aaron Porter… Roy Hodgson: the 70 year old failed England manager who picked Martin Kelly over Rio Ferdinand at Euro 2012. Clueless. Sam Green… You've turned us into an embarrassment, sacking De Boer for Hodgson is a joke. Lee Isted… Hodgson will offer us nothing and is such a step backwards. Shambles. R… Absolute disgrace of a club we have turned into. Don’t back the guy and sack him after four games. And get Hodgson. Season ticket binned. DeanR.’

But you’re right, enough – it’s only the gutter press that hound decent men trying their best. Anyway, it’s nearing kick-off here. I’ll be home by the time of the next debate, so let’s bid farewell to Russia and its mighty rockabilly scene with this. Until next time, comrades.

====== 2126 ========

KYLIAN MBAPPE HAS BEEN A BREATH OF FRESH AIR AT THE WORLD CUP

What a tournament it has been, with upsets, thrilling games and excellent individual displays. Here are my stand-out performers.

NEYMAR

Neymar has shown the good and rather less positive sides to his game. There is pressure on his shoulders every day. It's something he wanted and something he has to deal with. He produces great moments and it's clear his team care about him. He has great qualities but there were moments against Mexico that don't reflect positively.

It's difficult to kick him out of the game now because of VAR but we also see his reactions. If he wants to replicate Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi he needs to find his 'gentlemanly' side and realise they don't need to fall over to earn respect.

Neymar has shown the good and rather less positive sides to his game so far in Russia

JOKANOVIC Follow the Fulham boss on Twitter @Jokanovic

KYLIAN MBAPPE

He has been one of the most refreshing talents in Russia. He is quiet but aggressive, strong and incredibly quick. He has matched Pele by scoring twice in one World Cup match as a teenager, but I'm not sure he can reach his level.

He was not unknown before but his transition to a big tournament at 19 years old has been impressive. The calmness and control to his finishes reflect a mature player.

Kylian Mbappe's transition to a big tournament at 19 years old has been impressive

LUKA MODRIC

Modric has been one of the most important players in the competition. Like many of his Croatia team-mates, this is his last chance to win the World Cup. Like England, they will believe the draw is favourable.

I first heard of him when he was at Dinamo Zagreb and he has gone on to have a brilliant career with Tottenham and Real Madrid, where his achievements will go down in history. He made a mistake for his penalty against Denmark but had the mental strength to come back. At 32 years old, he will sense this could be his moment.

Croatia's Luka Modric has been one of the most important players in the competition

HARRY KANE

I said at the start he could be a star at this World Cup and he has shown quality at all the right moments. He is strong and has a real desire to be successful. He has that killer instinct that all top strikers need and seems motivated to become the best he can.

Playing for England brings great expectation but he handles that very well. He had a great run in the early games and produces important moments. The team will need to show his level of concentration to beat Sweden though.

====== 2127 ========

BRAD GILBERT GIVES THE LOWDOWN ON THE CONTENDERS AT WIMBLEDON

Brad Gilbert, the former coach of Andy Murray and Andre Agassi, gives his lowdown on the men and women to watch this fortnight at SW19.

Roger Federer will be aiming to clinch his ninth Wimbledon crown, while in the women's draw Garbine Muguruza is defending her title.

Here's an assessment of the players to look out for.

Men's singles

1. Roger Federer (SWI) Age: 36 Last year: Winner

How does he do it? It’s partly because he is serving better than he has ever done in terms of accuracy, which gets him free points or sets him up for the second shot. His backhand is at least as good as it has ever been and there has been no noticeable drop off in his movement, even though he lost the Halle final. His mid-court forehand remains lethal. Truly a one-off.

Current Wimbledon champion Roger Federer is probably serving better than he has ever done

2 Rafael Nadal (SP) Age: 32 Last year: 4th round

For Rafa it is, as ever, two tournaments — first and second week. If he gets through the first he will be dangerous despite missing Queen’s. He was playing well last year and could have gone much further but for a great display from Gilles Muller. His recent record at SW19 is not good and the grass has caused problems for his knees before.

Rafael Nadal will relish the hot weather but for him it is effectively two tournaments

3 Alex Zverev (GER) Age: 21 Last year: 4th round

He has fallen short so far in the Grand Slams but his run to the quarter-finals at the French Open was progress from previous fourth-round exits. He has got a great return and some serious pop on his own serve. He covers the court well but tends to play a long way behind the baseline, which he may try to adjust. His time is coming but we don’t know when.

The talented German's time in the Grand Slams is coming, but we don't know when

4 Juan Martin Del Potro (ARG) Age: 29 Last year: 2nd round

One of four very big men now in the top eight. He has had to reinvent his game after wrist surgery but his favoured backhand slice should work well on grass. He has a very good serve and a huge forehand that he can flatten out and penetrate the court with. If fully fit he will be dangerous as he moves tremendously well for a player of his height.

Juan Martin Del Potro moves exceptionally well for a man of his height and has a good serve

5 Grigor Dimitrov (BUL) Age: 27 Last year: 4th round

Finished last year strongly by winning at the O2 Arena but it has been a curious season for him in which he has not consolidated that gain. An all-rounder with excellent movement on grass, his high level is phenomenal but he doesn’t handle the lows as well as he might. In theory he has everything needed to go well.

Grigor Dimitrov has been unable to push on after winning at the O2 Arena last year

6 Marin Cilic (Cro) Age: 29 Last year: Runner-up

Another tall man who is an outstanding mover. The Queen’s champion (below) leans nicely on his backhand and hits it flat off both sides. As he showed in making last year’s final, he likes the grass. When he is serving well and getting free points, that lifts his whole game and he is an underrated volleyer. A tough opponent in this environment.

Marin Cilic got to the final last year and the Croatian is a tough opponent in this environment

7 Dominic Thiem Age: 24 (AUT) Last year: 4th round

He is a bit of a modern version of Stan Wawrinka. Only 6ft 1in but can blast his serve at 140mph — huge for his size. A very fast arm and nobody out there hits it harder off both sides. He has a big wind-up on his strokes which is not ideal for grass and the return of serve may be a problem. Like Nadal, he is one of those players for whom warm weather will be very welcome.

Austrian Dominic Thiem is a bit of a modern version of Stan Wawrinka - he has a very fast arm

8 Kevin Anderson Age: 31 (SA) Last year: 4th round

Virtually everything about him and his game is big. At 6ft 8in he hits a big first and second serve and goes bigger and bigger on his groundstrokes. He is also very aggressive on the return. The low bounce is not great for him but if he does break your serve, you’re in trouble.

Kevin Anderson is 6' 8'' - virtually everything about him and his game is big

Women's singles

1 Simona Halep Age: 26 (ROM) Last year: Quarter-Finals

She has led the surge of the counter-punchers and nobody does it better. A tremendous mover who covers the court very well. She had a rough quarter-final loss to Jo Konta last year and it is difficult to know how she will react to winning the French Open at last. It could lead to her immediately kicking on, but her lack of grass preparation will not help.

Simona Halep has led the surge of the counter punchers, and nobody does it better

2 Caroline Wozniacki Age: 27 (DEN) Last year: 4th round

Another counter-puncher who has got the Grand Slam monkey off her back by taking the title in Australia. Her backhand down the line is an outstanding shot, while tinkering with her serve has brought improvements. After winning at Eastbourne, Wozniacki (below) will hope for quicker conditions that can help generate power.

World No 2 Caroline Wozniacki is a counter-puncher of the highest order

3 Garbine Muguruza Age: 24 (SP) Last year: Winner

What surprised me last year was that from the fourth round onwards she was really solid. It was a remarkable mid-tournament transformation and incredibly effective. A big returner with huge power off both sides, she needs to find that great balance again between aggression and consistency. When she gets on a roll, she’s trouble.

Garbine Muguruza won Wimbledon last year following a mid-tournament transformation

4 Sloane Stephens Age: 25 (USA) Last year: 1st round

Another counter-attacker, but has more effortless power than any other player and the ability to strike from wider positions. Her game is not unlike that of Andy Murray in a way, and like him in his prime she is a fantastic mover. She has tended to be all or nothing at tournaments since winning the US Open.

Sloane Stephens' game is not unlike that of Andy Murray and she is a fantastic mover

5 Elina Svitolina Age: 23 (UKR) Last year: 4th round

A bit like Alex Zverev in the men’s, her results have been underwhelming in the Slams. But she is one of the most solid players out there off both wings and very good at manoeuvring the ball. I hope the disappointment at the French Open, which some thought she might win, has not affected her.

Elina Svitolina is talented but her results in the Grand Slams have been underwhelming

6 Caroline Garcia Age: 24 (FRA) Last year: 4th round

France’s best hope of a champion. She is a fun player to watch who gets consistently good results. Her aggressive game is quite flashy and she’s not afraid to take risks. Her whole game is elevated when her serve is on.

France's Caroline Garcia is a fun player to watch and dangerous when serving well

7 Karolina Pliskova Age: 26 (CZ) Last year: 2nd round

It’s a mystery that she has not done better at Wimbledon, especially as she has a high ace count from a first serve that is both powerful and accurate. She is not a great defender but you would think the rest of her game, with her aggressive returns, would translate well to grass. This will be the year it happens.

It is a mystery that Karolina Pliskova hasn't done better at Wimbledon given her serve

8 Petra Kvitova Age: 28 (CZ) Last year: 2nd round

Her resurgence has been amazing after the events of 2016 (when she was attacked in her home). Her lefty serve is very effective on grass and she has the second best slice serve after Serena. She likes to take defence out of the equation. A tremendous natural ball-striker and two-time champion (she won at Birmingham a week ago), she may be the only player capable of beating Serena at her peak.

Petra Kvitova likes to play first strike tennis and take defence out of the equation

9 Serena Williams Age: 36 (USA) Last year: DNP

Part of the key to her having the best serve in the history of tennis is that she can toss the ball up in the same place and find all the different spots she wants from there. She also has a great return off both wings. She was improving as she went on at the French Open before her withdrawal, but we cannot be sure of what we’ll get here.

Serena Williams was improving as she went on at the French Open before her withdrawal

10 Jo Konta Age: 26 (GB) Last year: Semi-Finals

I am surprised she has fallen away since making the semi-finals here last year. She has a good serve, is a strong athlete and plays aggressively, but that does not work as well when your confidence is not so high. I feel she needs to rein in her natural game sometimes so we wait to see if she can do that.

====== 2128 ========

OWEN: I'VE STILL GOT REGRETS, DON'T LET THIS CHANCE GO TO WASTE

When we faced Brazil in the World Cup quarter-final in 2002 there was a genuine feeling among the players this could be our time. A path was opening up to the final. We knew we'd face the winners of Senegal vs Turkey — we felt we could beat both — and in the other semi-final there would be Germany, who we'd beaten 5-1 the year before, and South Korea. If only we could get past Brazil.

If only. That is a phrase that will always feature heavily when assessing my England career. We all know how it ended in the heat of Shizuoka that day. I look back on my time with England with so many regrets. Many of my team-mates do as well.

Primarily that centres around the system we played. We were made for 3-5-2, with David Beckham and Ashley Cole as wing-backs. Now I'm watching a team play that system. And I'm genuinely excited for us. Watching England play has been a chore, pretty much an unenjoyable duty for years.

England's stars trudge back to the centre circle after Ronaldinho scored for Brazil in 2002

Gareth Southgate has made a series of sensible decisions en route to the World Cup

I would include in that much of the time I played for them, even though, at the time, you don't realise it. You're simply so proud to play for your country and so focused on what you're doing, you don't see how it feels from outside. But we played a system that never allowed us to thrive.

I've said in these pages before that if ever there was a case for football being about systems and not players, it was the England team between 2000 and 2006. With a different system you would have seen a different type of performance. We were playing as though we were shackled. But at least we had the tension of quarter-final shootouts.

Since 2006, England have been painful to watch. It's been laborious football and no joy to it. Suddenly there is hope. Suddenly all the excuses and reasons for not delivering under pressure are being swept aside.

First, there is a manager who has made a series of sensible decisions en route to the World Cup, be that dropping certain players or changing the system. He's been emotionally steady with the players, not exposing them to ups and downs, which is a good thing and like Sven-Goran Eriksson. But he's also made tough decisions when necessary. Unlike Eriksson, he's not the pragmatic, sensible man on the pitch. He's taking risks here in the style of play, which I like.

Among the good decisions he has taken, I would include the resting of players against Belgium. I don't think people fully understand how difficult it can be in a World Cup squad, especially if you're not playing. I don't expect people to understand, as, of course, it is the culmination of a dream to be at the World Cup. And people have much tougher tours in life, especially in the Army and other jobs, where they're away from their family and under much more extreme pressure than footballers.

But in day-to-day life, you train and then go home to spend time with your partner and kids, maybe go out for a meal. You're not always focused on the weekend's game. When you're at a World Cup that is literally all you are focused on. And if you're not actually playing, that drains you. And that negativity can drain the squad. You cannot over estimate how much better the squad will be feeling now that everyone has played.

Principally what is exciting about this team is the style and the opportunity opening up for these players. We've waited for years — you could argue 20 years since the era of Terry Venables and Glenn Hoddle — for England to play with fluidity and create chances.

That's always been our problem. We've been solid at times in our better years. But apart from a couple of occasions — against Germany in 2001, Denmark in 2002 and Croatia in Euro 2004 — we rarely looked like creating lots of goals. Now there is a chance to change that.

Harry Kane leads the line for England in Russia and currently leads the Golden Boot race, too

And, yes, there is a route opening up to the semi-finals. That's not to disrespect Colombia, who are a very fine team with some players we know a lot about in Radamel Falcao, Juan Cuadrado, James Rodriguez (if fit) and Davinson Sanchez, as well some less familiar names, like Porto's Juan Quintero in attacking midfield and Barcelona's Yerry Mina, who is such a threat at set-pieces.

We're long past the days when the English public underestimated the threat of teams like Colombia.

Equally, as players, you have to back yourself to win a game that is finely balanced. As you would against Sweden and Switzerland. There is a path to a semi-final avoiding the traditional World Cup powers. And saying that isn't arrogant or presumptuous. It's a fact. They're probably saying the same in Colombia, Sweden and Switzerland!

I would say to the likes of Harry Kane, Dele Alli, Raheem Sterling and the rest of the squad: take this opportunity. Don't live with regret. Some of these players, like that trio, will probably get the chance to play in another World Cup. But you never know, Certainly for many of the squad there won't be another chance to play in a tournament that only comes around every four years. And they certainly are unlikely ever to be in a World Cup draw like this again.

Kane, Dele Alli, Eric Dier and Co train ahead of England's last-16 showdown with Colombia

They're playing with confidence and style. Take that out on to the pitch against Colombia. Seize this moment and play with the flair we know that you have. England have a huge chance now in this tournament. That's not to say that they yet have a huge chance of winning it.

But there is an opportunity to flourish and go deep into the tournament. I spend plenty of time thinking about 'what ifs' when looking back on my England career. Over the next week, this team can ensure they don't have to live with that when they're retired.

Gareth Southgate was right to rest players... I know to my cost

In the 2002 World Cup quarter-final I was in no fit state to play. I had torn my hamstring in the previous game against Denmark. Ordinarily I wouldn't have tried but it was potentially the biggest game of my life.

Our manager Sven-Goran Eriksson wanted me to play simply to get in and round the box and use my finishing when I could. But I couldn't make any of the runs I used to make. I did what I could. I even scored, putting us ahead on 23 minutes. But I wasn't right and ultimately as a team we played poorly and went out, losing 2-1.

We probably would have lost anyway if I had been fit. We've spoken about how the shape wasn't right and how little we created. But we would have had a better chance with everyone fit.

In 2002 quarter-final I was in no fit state to play having torn my hamstring in the previous game

The trouble was we had had three hard group games in searing heat in 10 days. That takes its toll. We had a three-day break and then Denmark in the last 16, where I tore my hamstring. And that, right there, is the reason why Gareth Southgate rested almost everyone on Thursday.

Every game you play in short succession increases your injury risk. So even if Harry Kane had come through Thursday, he would have been a little less sharp for Tuesday. And there would be a greater risk of an injury with tired muscles. Even more so for Kieran Trippier and Dele Alli, who have had strains.

I always thought it took five days to recover properly and feel really fresh. Hopefully the first XI will have two games in five days this week.

And they'll go into that game having had nine days rest. That in itself justifies the England manager's decision. I believe it will pay off.

England boss Southgate rested the likes of Kane and Jordan Henderson against Belgium

Whatever happens now to Lionel Messi after Argentina were knocked out on Saturday, he has still given us one of the great World Cup moments. His goal against Nigeria in their final group game looked a decent finish.

Only when you watch in slow motion can you appreciate that it is simply on a different level to any normal player. Most people can do the first touch, taking the ball down on the knee while running. But it's all about the second touch. Most players would then have to allow the ball to bounce before taking their next touch.

At which point you have to check your stride and adjust your run to the new position of the ball. And the defender has a great chance to intercept or block as you do that. But Messi just caresses the ball gently on before it drops into the perfect position for him to take a strike without checking his run. That is genius.

It was 4am in China when I was watching the game. And when I saw the replay, I was gobsmacked. There are only a handful of players in history who use the ball like that. It really is a privilege to be alive to watch him play.

Lionel Messi scored a stunning opening goal for Argentina in their 2-1 victory over Nigeria

The secrets behind Harry Kane's success

Now the rest of the world is realising what we've all known for a few seasons: Harry Kane really is a world-class finisher. Take his winner against Tunisia. At first glance, it looks a decent header from close range.

In reality, it's the cold finish of an exceptional striker. There's a very small gap between the keeper and the post to aim for, with a defender blocking the space to the left of the keeper. The ball sits up for him but at that moment it's as though Kane's blood runs cold. His header has both precision and extraordinary power, almost like a shot.

MOST INTERNATIONAL GOALS IN CURRENT ENGLAND SQUAD Harry Kane - 18 goals Danny Welbeck - 16 goals Ashley Young, Jamie Vardy - 7 goals Gary Cahill - 5 goals

We had seen in that game what can happen even to good professionals with a chance in front of goal. Both John Stones and Raheem Sterling had taken air shots. It's natural. Your brain panics when you know there's a good opportunity. Your heart beats faster and your breath shortens. All of which causes you to tense up. That's the difference between Sterling, who will chip in with goals, and Kane, who is natural finisher and scores 30 a season.

I met him a few months ago. It was fascinating to compare techniques. We talked about how every striker has his favourite finish. Harry likes to take what he calls half a touch, even a scuffed touch before shooting. He feels that if you hit it first time, you rush the chance. If you take a full touch, it allows the defender to get a challenge in and block. A little half touch allows you to set yourself and doesn't allow the defender to react.

Then he shoots quickly, aiming between the defender's legs, usually from the right side across the face of goal. All strikers have a favoured finish. Mine would be a touch and a lift over the keeper. Harry hasn't even had a chance to use his preferred option this World Cup. Here's hoping that it comes on Tuesday.

====== 2129 ========

A SHOT IN TIME: LEYTON ORIENT'S PETER KITCHEN WAS SMOKING HOT

An FA Cup semi-final as it used to be: not at Wembley but at a slightly dishevelled Stamford Bridge.

It was neutral territory for two London clubs and there was little surprise, then or now, that Arsenal would be one of them. Arsenal reached five FA Cup finals between 1971 and 1980.

There were, however, raised eyebrows over their opponents — Orient.

Liam Brady gets his shot away in the FA Cup semi final between Orient and Arsenal in 1978

Orient, either as Clapton Orient or Leyton Orient — the Leyton prefix was dropped in 1966 — had never gone as far in the Cup and had finished the previous season 19th in the Second Division.

Laurie Cunningham had been their top scorer but he left for West Bromwich Albion in 1977 and few saw that as a signal Orient would go on a major Cup run. But under the management of Jimmy Bloomfield, with experience in midfield in Tony Grealish, a developing youngster, Glenn Roeder, at the back, and a striker in the form in Peter Kitchen, Orient were off.

In knocking out First Division opposition three times, they became 'Bloomfield's Upstarts'. With Roeder playing as a sweeper, they were also known for their five-man defence.

Kitchen was a 26-year-old from Mexborough in Yorkshire who, by the semi-final, was 'the northerner who has become the Cockney pride and joy'.

He was academically gifted and was questioning the wisdom of swapping Doncaster Rovers for Orient when the run began. It was hardly easy along the way, Orient needing three replays.

Under manager Jimmy Bloomfield, Peter Kitchen (left) became a crucial player for Orient

Bloomfield had Kitchen to throw at defences and Norwich City's was the first to feel the force, although when Kitchen scored in a 1-1 draw at Brisbane Road in front of 15,000 in the third round in January '78, the assumption was that top-flight Norwich would win the replay at Carrow Road. Instead, Kitchen scored again and that was the only goal.

Next came divisional rivals Blackburn at home. It was 3-1, two more for Kitchen and one for Joe Mayo. The fifth round brought a home draw again — against Chelsea. With Peter Bonetti, Micky Droy and Ray Wilkins in the team and 25,000 at Brisbane Road, it finished 0-0. The game was held up due to trouble on the terraces and the two boards rowed over who was responsible.

In the replay, Orient's first trip to Stamford Bridge that season, an own goal by Bill Roffey gave Chelsea the lead.

Kitchen then scored two — his 23rd and 24th goals of the season — and as Orient celebrated with Kitchen photographed smoking a giant cigar in the bath, Chelsea held an inquest as to why Kenny Swain was dropped for turning up late.

Developing young star Glenn Roeder was one of Bloomfield's 'upstarts' as they became known

The sixth-round draw brought more First Division opposition: Middlesbrough away. Boro were eighth in the league at Christmas, then sold Graeme Souness to Liverpool and were 15th when Orient arrived at Ayresome Park. The 34,000 locals still expected a home win. Orient's defensive organisation brought a goalless draw.

Three days later, Kitchen scored twice in the first half of the replay and although David Armstrong pulled one back for Boro, little Orient had reached an FA Cup semi-final.

At Highbury, eventual winners Ipswich took on West Brom — where Cunningham replaced a bloodied John Wile. At Stamford Bridge, Orient were back to face an Arsenal side orchestrated by the brilliant Liam Brady.

The focus was on the upstarts, of course. Orient's finances could be gauged by their request that Arsenal's squad co-sign 40 footballs to be auctioned for the Orient players' pool. Arsenal declined, Orient were not happy. Kit manufacturers Admiral stepped in with a donation. It was on the basis that Orient wore Admiral gear, part of a 'Buy British' campaign in a time of Adidas dominance.

Arsenal manager Terry Neill had been one of 7,000 at Brisbane Road to see Orient's goalless draw with Blackburn in the league four days before.

The Gunners did not want to go the same way as Norwich, Chelsea and Boro. In front of a 50,000 crowd — Stamford Bridge's capacity then was 60,000 — two early goals from Malcolm Macdonald ensured they did not. Graham Rix added an individual third in the second half. Not even Kitchen could reply.

One report referred to 'Arsenal's stylish, aggressive total superiority which, in the end, made the match the most one-sided semi-final for years'. On this occasion, Orient's tactics could not cope with Brady and, perhaps harshly, Kitchen said afterwards: 'Playing five men in defence... it didn't work. We didn't play at all.'

The following week Orient lost at Crystal Palace and relegation to the Third Division loomed. But Bloomfield's men found form and on the season's final day won 1-0 at Cardiff to reach 38 points. They were one of seven clubs to finish on that total, one point above relegation. An escape to follow an escapade.

Orient's goal at Ninian Park was scored by... Peter Kitchen.

====== 2130 ========

BALL-TAMPERING SAGA HAS RUINED WHAT COULD HAVE BEEN ONE OF THE GREAT MODERN TEST SERIES

It’s the big talking point of the whole cricketing world so let’s get it out there straightaway. What is happening with the Australian team is truly extraordinary.

What has happened is not good for the integrity of the game and we all have responsibility as international cricketers to ensure the game is played in the right spirit.

You go out onto the playing field every time to win and you will do all you can to do that, but not at all costs and especially not to cheat.

Steve Smith has been banned by Cricket Australia for his part in the ball-tampering scandal

The off-field stuff which has emerged from this has tainted what could have been a great series

South Africa against Australia could have been one of the great modern clashes with two fantastic bowling attacks pitted against each other and cricket-wise it has been good. But it’s been tainted by the off-field stuff.

I’d like to say more but I don’t want to go down that route. I’m looking at things from a distance and I don’t know the full story. Sometimes what you read – as I know about my supposed head-butt in Australia – is very different to what actually happened.

But what I will say is our one-day and Test series against New Zealand have been played in a tough manner but also in the right way.

Nothing has spilt over. We will have a beer and a yarn together at the end of the second Test whatever happens. If someone outplays you, like New Zealand outplayed us in Auckland, you recognise that. You don’t let it affect relationships between the teams.

This Test and one-day series against New Zealand has been played in the right spirits

No excuses

Auckland was a huge disappointment. It wasn’t the way we wanted to start again in Test cricket after the Ashes. Can you put your finger on it? No. To be bowled out for 58 on the first day was unacceptable.

You really do have to give credit to Trent Boult. He was magnificent. Fair play to him. But the way we batted in the second innings was the way to go about it and we need to be batting for nearly 130 overs like that first time round.

There was certainly a snowball effect. We started edging everything. They held their catches, in the case of Kane Williamson to dismiss Stuart Broad spectacularly so, and within the blink of an eye it was all over.

The way then that our bowlers came out and toiled was impressive and the character we showed in the last innings was a huge improvement but it was too little too late. We have to do that at the start of a match to set us up and that’s what we will be trying to do in Christchurch.

To be bowled out for 58 in that first innings of the first Test was simply inexcusable

You really do have to give credit to Trent Boult – he was magnificent, fair play to him

They were holding all of their catches, too – including this stunner from Kane Williamson

A word, too, for Neil Wagner, who bowled a 15-over spell either side of dinner on the final day that was decisive for New Zealand. He showed tremendous heart but we have to have the game plans to nullify spells like that.

If your game is to take everything on then you have to stick with that and if it’s your game to get out of the way of the short ball then that’s what you do.

Yes, there are periods when you tinker but it’s an individual thing and we have to execute what we want to do much better in the final Test. As for my second innings dismissal. Well, I couldn’t not try to hit that, could I?

If anyone says I played the wrong shot I will defend myself to the hilt because it was a drag down from Todd Astle that deserved to go into orbit.

But there are no excuses. I don’t think lack of preparation had anything to do with it. Guys know what they need going into a series.

I felt in great nick going into the match after two centuries in the last two one-day games and I don’t think the colour of the ball should make any difference to my form.

I have no regrets about my second-innings dismissal, that ball should have gone into orbit

Pink problems

But it will be nice to see a red ball again in Christchurch. We haven’t had one of them in a proper match for a while now! I’m not a huge fan of the day-night Test concept from what I’ve seen so far.

You can’t shine the pink ball and there were times when it had to be changed because of what was effectively plastic being chipped off it. They went out of shape consistently and you couldn’t see the shiny or the rough side.

And I found it particularly hard to see the pink ball when the sun was shining on the sightscreen. There was a real glare. So I think the ball has to be tried and tested a lot more before you implement it at the highest level because this is Test cricket.

It will be nice to move back from the pink ball to the red in the second Test in Christchurch

I wasn’t out there long enough to tell you what it was like batting under lights but the hours do mess with your whole day. I can’t tell you either if the spectators like it and I couldn’t say whether viewing figures have gone up.

We will have to see but I certainly don’t think it’s something for Tests in England because we are fortunate to get good crowds and it’s light for much of the summer until 9pm anyway.

I know people in the game have to make these decisions but potentially they haven’t played with a pink ball themselves!

Ginger power

There was one pleasant distraction during the Test and that was a visit from Ed Sheeran, who was in Auckland to play three concerts.

What a lovely, normal bloke he is. I was one of the players who was lucky enough to meet him, just two gingers having a chat! I am a fan of Ed. I think he’s a fantastic musician and artist and he’s an inspiration because of the way he started out.

I love meeting successful people from different walks of life and finding out more about them and Ed is probably the biggest pop star in the world at the moment. I still haven’t seen him in concert and I want to put that right one day.

Mark Wood gave him a bat and we all gave him a signed shirt and it really was great to meet him.

Ed Sheeran visited the team after he played three concerts in Auckland, a nice surprise!

Putting it right

We won’t shy away from the fact that we weren’t good enough at Eden Park. We have one game to do much better now.

It comes down to this and we certainly don’t want to go a whole winter without winning a Test. It’s a one-game series for us now and we have to get back to winning ways before a huge English summer.

It’s a big game for individuals and it’s a big game for the team. It’s been a long winter and to finish it off on another low note would be very disappointing.

It’s a one-game series for us now and we must get back to winning ways before a huge summer

It is very hard to win in India and in Australia and while New Zealand are a very good side we wanted to come here and win this series to put our away form right.

We can’t do that now and that’s why a two-Test series is frustrating but what we can do is level the series.

We have had conversations among each other and asked questions of ourselves and now we will come together again and get ready for Hagley Park on Friday.

We have one game to put it right.

====== 2131 ========

PETER SCUDAMORE'S VIEW OF DAY THREE OF THE CHELTENHAM FESTIVAL:

Racing is doing its bit for Sports Relief with ‘The Cheltenham Hill Challenge’ contributing to the charities aim for the nation to do a billion steps a day.

I took a turn on a treadmill set to the gradient of the climb to the Cheltenham winning post and managed to contribute about 10 steps. They all count!

Sportsmail's Peter Scudamore does his bit for Sports Relief at Cheltenham on Thursday

LAURINA NOT TESTED

Laurina was an impressive winner of the Mares’ Novices’ Hurdle but her 18-length romp was also ammunition to those who see this race as an unnecessary addition.

She would have been very interesting taking on her male counterparts in Tuesday’s Supreme Novices’ Hurdle.

PENHILL IS BLOOMING

Penhill’s win in the Stayers’ Hurdle followed his victory in the Albert Bartlett Novices’ Hurdle last year and impressively was his first run in almost a year.

As trainer Willie Mullins said: ‘He must have some engine.’ It was also another good result for his owner Tony Bloom, chairman of Premier League club Brighton.





====== 2132 ========

LIVERPOOL TO CONTINUE PUSHING FOR NABY KEITA EARLY SIGNING

Liverpool will continue to press for Naby Keita's early release from RB Leipzig despite their coach Ralph Hasenhuttl insisting there is no reason to sell.

Sportsmail reported at the weekend that Liverpool were ready to pay an extra fee to accelerate Keita's arrival at Anfield.

Leipzig have not shown any willingness so far but it is understood Keita and his representatives are keen.

Liverpool are going to keep pressing for an early move for RB Leipzig midfielder Naby Keita

A meeting is planned before the weekend to discuss proposals though Hasenhuttl said: 'The current situation is that nothing changed.

'We do not have a reason to sell Keita any time before the end of the season. That's it.

'He will play at the weekend against Schalke and hopefully he does well. That's the only thing I really care about.'

Liverpool are already due to pay Leipzig £58m for Keita but will pay £67m should they qualify for the Champions League.

Leipzig are fifth at the moment and any additional fee now would have to take into consideration the price of compensation should Keita leave and Leipzig lose momentum for their Champions League spot.

It is understood Liverpool have not been quoted a new price as yet.

The Anfield club know Leipzig are opposed to letting him join them early, but are still keen

Manchester United are recalling Cameron Borthwick-Jackson from his loan at Leeds United.

The Old Trafford club have been disappointed with the amount of game time afforded to the 20-year-old and with Leeds confirming the signing Belgian left-back Laurens De Bock from Club Brugge, United have now opted to cut short Borthwick-Jackson's loan.

Reading and Fulham have already made enquiries to take Borthwick-Jackson for the rest of the season.

The former Manchester United young player of the year can play at centre-back as well as left back and has Champions League experience.

Jaap Stam is a confirmed admirer while Slavisa Jokanovic wants to upgrade at left-back to allow him to push Ryan Sessegnon further forward.

Manchester United will recall Cameron Borthwick-Jackson (left) from a difficult loan spell

West Brom and Swansea are among the clubs to show interest in left-sided Greece international centre-back Dimitrios Siovas.

The 29-year-old has been starring for Leganes in La Liga this season playing 12 games and helping to keep seven clean sheets in the process.

Standing 6ft 4in, Siovas can also play as a holding midfielder and is understood to have a release clause set at £10m.

West Brom are looking at options with Jonny Evans expected to leave this month amid interest from Manchester City and Arsenal.

West Brom's Chinese owners are understood to be travelling to the Midlands this weekend to watch their match with Brighton plus discuss their transfer budget.

Defender Dimitrios Siovas (left) is attracting the interest of West Brom and Swansea City

West Ham are to hold further talks over a potential deal for Anderlecht's Leander Dendoncker.

The 22-year-old is interested in teaming up with David Moyes at the London Stadium and his agent has a good rapport with the West Ham boss.

Moyes wants to strengthen his midfield and the club remain hopeful that Jonjo Shelvey will join from Newcastle before the end of the month. They also need a holding player and Dendoncker is one who also has sell-on potential.

Anderlecht though want a premium fee of around £27m for the Belgium international as he has also been filling in at centre-back following injury to Kara Mbodji. That will prove a sticking point for this window.

Moyes has an interest in Burnley midfielder Scott Arfield but the 29-year-old, who is free in the summer, is not an option for January and has been offered a new contract by the Turf Moor club.

West Ham will hold more discussions over signing Anderlecht's Leander Dendoncker

Everton midfielder Mo Besic is a target for Torino.

The 25-year-old is increasingly frustrated at his lack of game time and will slip further down the pecking order if Everton are successful in signing Steven Nzonzi from Sevilla.

Hamburg, his first professional club, have also been linked with the Bosnia international, who was born in Berlin, though they would like a loan.

Everton expect interest from Crystal Palace for James McCarthy but Sam Allardyce is keen for the Republic of Ireland international to stay.

Everton are also due to give a new contract to teenage midfielder Beni Baningime who has impressed in his breakthrough season.

Another midfielder Harry Charlsey, 21, is joining Bolton Wanderers on loan for the rest of the season.

====== 2133 ========

IT WON'T GET EASIER FOR PEP GUARDIOLA'S TOP DOGS

This is what Manchester City can expect now. They’ve set their mark. They are eight points clear. They are breaking records.

But what I also saw in their performance at tigerish Huddersfield is that they can come from behind.

They were 1-0 down at the interval to a goal at the end of the first half. The home side packed numbers behind the ball and compressed space to hamper City’s lightning attacking breaks.

Pep Guardiola's men ran out 2-1 winners against Huddersfield after Raheem Sterling's winner

However, it won't get any easier for Manchester City as teams will adopt the Terriers' tactics

13 GAMES IN, NOBODY HAS DONE IT BETTER... Manchester City’s 37-point tally after 13 games is the best return in Premier League history. On Sunday, they passed their way through Huddersfield’s admirable resistance, particularly in the second half. SUCCESSFUL PASSES IN SECOND HALF Huddersfield: 37 Man City: 336 And two City players completed more passes overall than Huddersfield’s entire team. TOTAL SUCCESSFUL PASSES Nicolas Otamendi: 114 Fernandinho: 97 Huddersfield: 94

But Pep Guardiola’s men held their nerve, they weren’t rattled.

The challenge was laid down and they dealt with it. It’s their first win coming from behind at half-time in an away Premier League game since April 1995, when they hit back from 2-1 down to beat Blackburn 3-2.

Think about that. We know what they can do when they get ahead and blow you away, when Kevin De Bruyne is working his magic and it is all happening around him. Here they showed another side.

It’s Southampton and West Ham at home next and they will expect to be just as far clear by the end of this week.

Teams with more quality will, however, adopt similar tactics to Huddersfield. It’s only going to get harder for City from here. It’s why I can’t see them finishing the season unbeaten.

The Christmas programme will give them a headache and they are determined to progress in the Champions League so they may have a hangover from a trip. And looming large on December 10 are United and Jose Mourinho.

He may have taken more than a passing interest in how Huddersfield troubled the runaway leaders.

David Wagner's tactics against the league leaders could be mimicked by City's rivals

WATFORD DISCOVERY HAS RICH PROMISE

What an explosive start Richarlison of Watford has made. You would normally expect a young player from South America to take his time to settle. There might be flashes of his beach tricks but a manager would expect to be saying: ‘Yes, very good, but he needs to do it more regularly... he needs to be more consistent.’

You anticipate finding yourself with a luxury player who might not be as effective away from home. Watford DO have a luxury player on their books, but he’s also astonishingly consistent — home and away.

He scores, he creates, he is a threat with and without the ball and he obliterated Newcastle’s right side on Saturday.

Watford's Richarlison is a luxury player but he's also astonishingly consistent - home and away

Also, it’s not like the days when the pitches deteriorated in deep winter and form fell down like the decorations. If he continues to play like this, he will be a contender for Young Player of the Year in his debut season and Watford and their recruitment staff have done a very good job in bringing him in.

He seems to find space so easily and then uses that space to create goal chances or to score himself.

He makes it look easy. He looks to be a super talent.

No player has been involved in more away goals in the Premier League this season than Richarlison (four goals, three assists). He has had the most touches in the opposition box (93) and also won the most fouls (42).

Richarlison is also the top tackling forward in the Premier League, having made 27 for Watford this season.

====== 2134 ========

ANTHONY JOSHUA DOESN'T DISAPPOINT IN 'FIGHT OF MY LIFE'

I don't think it would be too much of an exaggeration to describe Anthony Joshua as nigh on bulletproof. Not in the Man of Steel/super hero sense, of course. Although he does look as if bullets might bounce off him. No, I mean more in him being pretty much universally appreciated by the British public.

Indeed, he seems as likeable and natural a sporting personality as we've had since Sir Mo Farah first pulled on his spikes and ran into the nation's front rooms. And like Mo, what's also important is that AJ not only appears to be a good guy. But that he's also good.

It's something that played out to such dramatic effect at Wembley Stadium in April, on that amazing evening under the lights. The build-up to which was captured wonderfully in the BBC documentary 'The Road To Klitschko'. A programme that arguably also helped to bring the young star as close to our hearts as it did the fight itself.

Anthony Joshua relives his win over Wladimir Klitschko in documentary 'The Fight Of My Life'

The world heavyweight champions speaks to rapper Dr Dre during one scene in the BBC show

Joshua comes across as good guy in the documentary, which airs on BBC One on Wednesday

ANTHONY JOSHUA: THE FIGHT OF MY LIFE Channel: BBC One When: Wednesday, October 18 Time: 10.45pm

Now that incredible spectacle of pugilistic thrills and spills is being revisited by the same team that brought us that background to the build-up.

Giving the champion himself the chance to tell us the story of what happened next, in the process. In 'Anthony Joshua: The Fight Of My Life', on BBC One at 10.45pm on Wednesday.

And much like he did on the night, the young fighter does not disappoint. Once again, AJ is doing the business inside the ring. However this time, it is in decidedly less painful, powerful circumstances. Yet it still provides another engrossing conclusion.

Prior to this knockout finish, what 'The Fight Of My Life' does is throw combinations of previously seen footage, and behind -the-scenes access. Starting a couple of weeks prior with a heartwarming family surprise. And stopping as the fight is stopped in that incredible 11th round.

Showing us not only Joshua the boxer, talking a good game, putting bums on seats and getting the job done, but also Joshua the relative, the friend, the student and the colleague. Which in actual fact, and as becomes increasingly evident throughout, is pretty much the same fella.

Joshua became unified heavyweight world champion by beating Klitschko at Wembley in April

Klitschko put Joshua on the canvas for the first time in his career during the sixth round

Klitschko looked on course for victory before Joshua unleashed a hellish uppercut in the 11th

VIDEO WARNING: STRONG LANGUAGE

As he tells a reporter three days before the fight: 'No I don't want to be a legend. No way. You have to disconnect yourself.' And nothing that happens in the documentary suggests anything other than he is a man with his feet firmly on the ground.

Even when we see him raised up in the air in the build-up on the night, which he laughs 'would wind me up', as he reflects on what the Klitschko brothers must have been thinking as they watched on at the time.

But the retelling of the tale really comes to life when we once again see the two men step into the ring at Wembley. At which point AJ picks up the story of the fight from inside the ropes at his spiritual home of Finchley Boxing Club.

Here, this smart, self-effacing man vividly takes us back to that April evening. Shadow boxing his way through the drama with a blow by blow account of what unfolded.

Six months on from the Wembley showdown, the British fighter has relived the epic battle

Joshua recreates the punch of his career at his first amateur boxing club in Finchley

Joshua celebrates his victory alongside his coach Rob McCracken at Wembley in April

And again, just as on the night, you can't take your eyes off of it. As AJ swings away with his thoughts and emotions at the time, as the rounds rollercoaster by before us.

He brings his recollections to an end with a wonderful piece of understatement. AJ takes a breath, then tells us that in spite of being at the eye of that amazing storm, he can remember thinking 'that was a really good scrap, actually.'

Yes, champ, it was indeed not too shabby at all. And nor was this warm, candid and colourful revisiting of it. The sort of documentary that once again serves to remind us all that we really do seem to have a good 'un here.

====== 2135 ========

ZINEDINE ZIDANE DOESN'T GET THE CREDIT HE DESERVES

What does he really do? It might seem an odd question to pose about a manager who stands on the brink of history but it's one some people will still ask.

Zinedine Zidane was a genius as a player, one of the greatest we have ever seen, but so far his career in the dugout has passed without significant acclaim. That is remarkable when you consider what he has done in such a short period of time.

This evening in Cardiff, he has the chance to become the first manager in the Champions League era to win the tournament back-to-back and join a select group that includes, among others, Bob Paisley, Arrigo Sacchi and Brian Clough as men who have retained club football's greatest prize.

Zinedine Zidane celebrates with his players after Real Madrid claimed the Spanish title

Zidane is aiming for his second Champions League crown in two seasons this weekend

Zidane put his players through their paces on the Cardiff pitch on Friday evening

His c.v. in 18 months also includes Real Madrid's first La Liga title since 2012 and the Club World Cup yet whenever we talk about the Spanish giants, the focus centres on Cristiano Ronaldo's exploits, Gareth Bale's brilliance or the impact of Luka Modric, Toni Kroos or Sergio Ramos.

Why does it get assumed that Zidane is a figurehead and everything Real achieve is down to the talent of the squad? To put that into perspective, if I asked you to write down a list of the world's top 10 managers I'd say 95 per cent wouldn't include his name.

It is a strange situation, particularly when you make a comparison with Pep Guardiola. Zidane started out with Real Madrid Castilla, as Guardiola began with Barcelona B yet, whereas we were raving about Pep after his first 18 months, Zidane is almost flying under the radar.

The Frenchman, who ended his playing career in 2006, fires off a pass during training

Zidane has enjoyed an extreme amount of success since taking over as Real manager

His situation has parallels with Vincente Del Bosque, who was manager of Real when Zidane arrived as a player for a golden era at the beginning of this century and went on to lead Spain to victory at the 2010 World Cup and Euro 2012.

Del Bosque rarely became animated on the sidelines. He had the look of your favourite old uncle and Xabi Alonso once told me that one of his greatest abilities was to keep a low profile and make sure everyone was happy. He wasn't a coach who burned with intensity.

As a result, when we look back at his teams' achievements, we remember the magic in Spain's midfield of Alonso, Xavi and Andres Iniesta or the 'Galactico' play of the Brazilian Ronaldo, Luis Figo, Zidane and many more.

The importance of the manager, though, can never be understated.

The French coach and his team prepare for their clash with Juventus in Cardiff

Cristiano Ronaldo and the Real squad get a lot of credit for the success enjoyed under Zidane

Del Bosque was axed by Madrid for failing to retain the Champions League in 2003 but his sacking triggered the start of a spell when they won nothing for four years and failed to get beyond the Champions League's last 16.

Real Madrid is such an extraordinary club in terms of size and the constant politics that, perhaps, the best results are achieved by those with an ability to remove themselves from the spotlight to concentrate on their work.

Zidane has done the opposite to his predecessor. Rafa Benitez — man with huge experience who knew how the club operated — could not get the results Real wanted and couldn't walk away from the fights that erupted in the dressing room and the boardroom.

The former France international does not seem to have received substantial praise for his work

Madrid could have reappointed Jose Mourinho after Benitez had been sacked in December 2015 — Mourinho had just left Chelsea — but they turned to Zidane, who had served his apprenticeship with Real Madrid Castilla and he has proven the decision to be wise.

He has barely put a foot wrong since winning his first match 5-0 against Deportivo La Coruna in January 2016, improving a squad that was floundering behind Barcelona and Atletico Madrid to the polished unit you will see against Juventus. Remember: this is the same team Benitez had.

The improvement Zidane has overseen has come without spending money. Last summer, Madrid made a profit in their transfer dealings, which is a remarkable achievement in itself when you consider they are synonymous with paying huge fees.

It is a point that needs to be re-emphasised, too when you think Mourinho and Guardiola — the two most successful managers over the last decade — will look to improve the teams of Manchester United and Manchester City by spending in excess of £150million each.

Of course, Zidane walked into a dressing room crammed with brilliant players but that is no guarantee results will follow. He has consistently maintained the harmony and the numbers Real have subsequently produced are evidence of how successful he has been.

Cristiano Ronaldo described his management of the squad as being 'intelligent' and how Zidane commands 'their respect', which is no mean compliment when you realise how much he has been rotated. Ronaldo has missed 14 games this season, the highest number since he joined them in 2009.

Zidane holds the European Cup following last season's final victory over Atletico Madrid

He has only lost four of his 58 La Liga matches and broke the club record for the team scoring in 44 consecutive games. Not even Miguel Munoz, who is regarded as Real's greatest manager and was captain for their first two European Cup triumphs in 1956 and 1957, can match those statistics.

It helps, no doubt, that Zidane played for Madrid. He endured early difficulties with supporters when he arrived from Juventus, so when he speaks to his players he does it with authority; he knows what it takes to succeed and what will not be tolerated.

True, he might still be a novice as a manager but isn't it a case that sometimes certain individuals are tailor-made for certain positions?

We might not get fixated about Zidane in the way we have done about Guardiola or Mourinho. He doesn't have the charisma of Jurgen Klopp or the raw emotion of Antonio Conte and he can't even match the experience and trophies of Max Allegri, who will be his opponent in Cardiff.

But we cannot understate what he has achieved and what potentially beckons. Madrid have not won La Liga and the European Cup in the same season since 1958 but should they beat Juventus, Zidane's claim to be regarded as the greatest figure in their history will be even stronger.

Above all, it would provide the conclusive answer to the opening question. What does he really do? He wins.

Zidane has only lost four of 58 matches and his team scored in 44 consecutive games

MAN OF THE WEEK

David Wagner

What an incredible feat the German coach has managed to engineer at Huddersfield and they will be welcome additions to the Premier League after their dramatic play-off final victory.

I know there are people within the game who grumble and complain when foreign managers, who have previously been unheard of, are appointed to positions in the Premier League, with a common argument being 'Let's see how they would do in the Championship!'

Well, Wagner took a chance in the Championship 18 months ago and the job he has done almost defies logic, with Huddersfield's owner Dean Hoyle revealing their wage bill was £2million less than it was in 2012-13 when they had to beat Barnsley to avoid dropping into League One.

That is a huge amount of money for a club at that level but Wagner's work has enabled them to hit the jackpot. I look forward to seeing how they progress when it all starts again next season.

David Wagner has almost defied logic in getting Huddersfield promoted to the Premier League

FA Cup win just the start of a long haul for Wenger

One of the last games of the domestic season turned out to be among the best FA Cup finals we have seen this century.

Arsenal’s victory was the product of one of their best performances in recent years. Few gave them a chance against Chelsea but they dominated from start to finish and ended a difficult campaign on a high. I was most pleased for their manager Arsene Wenger, who wore a smile of deep contentment at the final whistle.

Whether you feel he should have gone or believe he still has much to give, nobody can dispute he is a class act.

Back in February, after they had been demolished in the Champions League by Bayern Munich, I said here that with Wenger’s contract running down, a parting of the ways with Arsenal would have been for the best.

Arsene Wenger has signed a new deal with Arsenal after winning the FA Cup for the club

I felt the criticism he was taking could not continue and, with them always falling at the same hurdles, I suggested another coach could come in and change the direction.

As it stands, though, he will carry on for another two years. Maybe things are going to change at the Emirates and the big victories over Manchester City and Chelsea were a sign of things to come. If Arsenal could play as they did at Wembley consistently, the discontent would soon disappear.

If I was an Arsenal fan, however, I would still have ended this week worried. Why? Wenger’s comments about them being very close to the title.

Things remain a long way from being perfect.

====== 2136 ========

CLASSY CLIFFS OF MOHER TO FLY AT EPSOM DERBY

Cliffs of Moher (Epsom, 4.30) is named in honour of one of Ireland's most picturesque natural wonders and the equine version could be poised to deliver a performance of beauty in Saturday afternoon's Investec Derby.

The presence of six runners representing Ballydoyle in Saturday's feature suggests trainer Aidan O'Brien may not perceive the son of Galileo to be a definitive No 1 pick, but Ryan Moore was keen to maintain the association and that could be a steer in itself.

A 19-runner Derby around Epsom's unique undulations and cambers makes this year's renewal a hair-raising experience, but Cliffs of Moher will have learned a lot from his Chester expedition last time and I was left with the impression his trainer only just had him fit enough to run that day.

Cliffs of Moher is improving and will have learned from his last outing in Chester last month

Jockey Ryan Moore was keen to maintain the association and will fancy his chances

The son of Galileo stepped forward enormously for his subdued debut as a juvenile last October, routing stablemate Orderofthegarter by five lengths at Leopardstown a fortnight later to head into the winter as a potential Derby contender.

His speed at Leopardstown was one of the quickest recorded for a juvenile in recent seasons and the lofty rating led some to question if Cliffs of Moher possessed the required stamina to win a Derby given he appeared to boast so much latent speed.

However, his sire Galileo has produced three winners of Saturday's great race in New Approach, Ruler Of The World and Australia and there is plenty of stamina on the female side of the pedigree.

In truth, the selection took a while to wind up at Chester, which suggests the step up in trip on Saturday holds no huge concerns and he looks nicely drawn to try to deliver O'Brien a sixth winner in the race.

Cracksman heads a dangerous field in a wide open race but Cliffs of Moher has the stamina

William Buick is relishing ride on 'improving' Permian in the Investec Derby on Saturday

Trainer Aidan O'Brien has six contenders

In a big field, there are clearly a host of dangers in the market, not least Cracksman, who represents Friday's Investec Oaks winning duo, John Gosden and Frankie Dettori, and will surely be vying for favouritism.

Although the son of Frankel looked as if he needed all of the 10 furlongs when successful on his reappearance at Saturday's venue, his breeding suggests another couple of furlongs at championship pace may find him out and I prefer the tough Permian to make a telling impact.

Permian was collared by Cracksman when they met in April but has since improved beyond all recognition with a commanding Listed-race success at Newmarket prior to a game defeat of Benbatl in the Dante at York.

Double-figure quotes for a thriving stayer with a superb will to win look a shade generous. Venice Beach may need motivating but he does stay well and his confirmed stamina and ability to handle an easy surface will be well served if further showers hit the track.

====== 2137 ========

THE PREDICTION CHALLENGE: MARTIN KEOWN VS JACK GAUGHAN

THE STORY SO FAR REPORTERS 8-5 COLUMNISTS Last week, our athletics correspondent Martha Kelner beat columnist Chris Sutton 8-6 to extend the reporters' overall lead. How it works: 3 points for a correct score, 1 point for the right result.

Welcome to The Prediction Challenge.

It's what millions of us do every day - predicting what the score will be in a Premier League match.

Whether it's a thumping 4-0 home win, a sneaky three points on the road or a 0-0 bore draw, let's be honest – we all think we can tip the outcome of the next game.

Well, now we've challenged Sportsmail's experts to test their prediction power.

Each week, we'll ask one of our star columnists to go head to head with one of our top team of reporters.

They will offer their prediction for each Premier League match - and explain why they went for that score.

This week, it's our columnist Martin Keown against reporter Jack Gaughan ... and don't forget to tell us your predictions by leaving a comment below.

Sportsmail's columnist Martin Keown (left) takes on our reporter Jack Gaughan this week

All matches on Sunday at 3pm

ARSENAL vs EVERTON

Martin Keown: Arsenal will sign off on a positive note ahead of the Cup final. Everton have made big improvements this season but Arsenal will be too good. Arsenal 2-0 Everton.

Jack Gaughan: Surely the Gunners are going to put on a show? You’d hope so after the season they’ve endured and with a slim chance of reaching the Champions League. They need results to go there way. Arsenal 2-1 Everton.

BURNLEY vs WEST HAM

Martin Keown: A very disappointing season for West Ham will end with defeat at Burnley, who will continue their good home form. Burnley 1-0 West Ham.

Jack Gaughan: West Ham were on the beach last week against Liverpool and Burnley will want to finish their home campaign with yet another win. Burnley 2-1 West Ham.

CHELSEA vs SUNDERLAND

Martin Keown: Chelsea can create history by winning their 30th Premier League game of the season. With the prospect of a Double on the horizon Chelsea will want to get the job done early. Conte will use his squad wisely ahead of the Cup final. Chelsea 3-0 Sunderland.

Jack Gaughan: A big finale, Antonio Conte hopes. Goals to be had against a wretched Sunderland side - this should be exceptionally one-sided. Chelsea 4-0 Sunderland.

Chelsea are getting ready to party as they lift the Premier League trophy on Sunday

HULL CITY vs TOTTENHAM HOTSPUR

Martin Keown: Who would bet against Harry Kane scoring another hat-trick? Tottenham have shown they are stronger mentally and Kane chasing a personal milestone has made life easier for them. Hull 0-3 Tottenham.

Jack Gaughan: Spurs are still relentless despite sewing up second spot already and showed that against Leicester on Thursday night. Same again here. Hull 0-3 Tottenham.

Harry Kane will be looking to secure the Golden Boot when Spurs finish their season at Hull

LEICESTER CITY vs BOURNEMOUTH

Martin Keown: The 6-1 defeat by Spurs will have been a smack in the face for Craig Shakespeare. Another loss would harm his job prospects and this will really test his relationship with the players. Leicester 2-1 Bournemouth.

Jack Gaughan: Craig Shakespeare will be hurt by Thursday and want a reaction, while Bournemouth are hoping to cling on to their top 10 finish. Leicester 1-1 Bournemouth.

LIVERPOOL vs MIDDLESBROUGH

Martin Keown: I cannot see anything other than a Liverpool win. If they can't beat Boro then they don't deserve to be in the Champions League. Liverpool 3-1 Middlesbrough.

Jack Gaughan: Could it be nervy? Liverpool fans are hoping not, needing one final win to make sure they’re back in the Champions League. Liverpool 2-0 Middlesbrough.

Philippe Coutinho and Liverpool are hoping to secure a Champions League spot

MANCHESTER UNITED vs CRYSTAL PALACE

Martin Keown: Palace will have their party hats on and can finally enjoy a Premier League game after playing under such pressure. United won't want to lose heading into the Europa League final... so I can see them equalling their record of 11 draws at home! Man United 1-1 Crystal Palace.

Jack Gaughan: A game Jose Mourinho would rather do without. A second string again, a second rate performance again. Man United 1-1 Crystal Palace.

SOUTHAMPTON vs STOKE CITY

Martin Keown: Southampton are without a goal in four games and that run will extend against a Stoke side who don't do a lot away from home. Southampton 0-0 Stoke.

Jack Gaughan: Tough to call. Claude Puel looks on the way out whereas Stoke have faltered badly and could finish as low as 16th. Southampton 0-1 Stoke.

SWANSEA CITY vs WEST BROM

Martin Keown: West Brom's season has tailed off. I expect Swansea to win a tight game. Swansea 2-1 West Brom.

Jack Gaughan: West Brom have struggled for results recently and Tony Pulis could look to grind out a draw to make sure they stay in the top half. Swansea 0-0 West Brom.

WATFORD 0-3 MANCHESTER CITY

Martin Keown: The wheels have well and truly come off at Watford, losing each of their last five games. A comfortable Manchester City win. Watford 0-3 Manchester City.

Jack Gaughan: City only need a draw but they will hunt for goals. Watford are all over the place, with Walter Mazzarri leaving. Watford 1-3 Manchester City.

====== 2138 ========

TYMAL MILLS: MY INDIAN PREMIER LEAGUE HAS BEEN FRUSTRATING

My time is coming to an end with Royal Challengers Bangalore and it's been an extremely frustrating six weeks but an experience I won't forget and have learned a lot from.

I really struggled with injuries during the second half of the IPL, first picking up a hamstring which ruled me out of two games.

After recovering I then pulled up with a sore back and had an MRI which luckily showed no major damage so I began rehabbing that.

Tymal Mills is coming towards the end of his debut season in the Indian Premier League

The RCB medical staff have been great and kept in constant touch with both Sussex and the ECB in deciding which avenues to take to get me back on the park.

I went to Dubai for a few days to take my mind off of the injury and on my return I was feeling really good and confident of playing in our last two or three matches until, on literally the last ball of my fitness test, I tweaked my hamstring again - no luck!

So I sit here rehabbing again and while it's nothing serious it's bad enough to keep me from playing.

The England bowler has struggled with frustrating injuries throughout the campaign

I am doing my best to feature in our last game away at Delhi on Sunday so I can at very least contribute to the team one last time before I head home.

I've kept attending the home games and staying as involved as I can while soaking up all I can from both India and the IPL.

The passion for the game is really unlike anything you will find anywhere in the world. We've had several sponsor and fan interaction events and the response, while often chaotic, is overwhelming.

Especially because we have some of the genuine stars of the game in our side.

Royal Challengers Bangalore have not reached the knock-out stage of the competition

The big disappointment is that we won only two of our 13 group games which nobody, myself included, expected but that's just how sport goes sometimes.

The level of competition is so strong and every team is packed with superstars so there really is no such thing as an easy game.

Once you get on a bad run of form, as we obviously did, it's hard to get out of. One thing I must say however is the support we received from the fans and everyone associated with the franchise was unwavering.

Every match was sold out and we never once received a stern word from those above which has been the case with other franchises I have been involved with.

While I was only able to play in five (hopefully six) matches out here I am pleased with how I have performed and felt like I was growing into the tournament nicely which bodes well for my confidence if I get picked up again next year.

Mills is looking forward to returning home in time for England's summer T20 fixtures

This concludes my winter of cricket where I have played over 30 T20 matches in five countries since November. I've been extremely lucky as I've got to travel all over the world, meeting some great people and seeing some amazing places along the way.

I feel my cricket has improved immensely as playing against the best players in the world consistently forces you to be on your game at all times otherwise you just don't survive.

I am now looking forward to having some time off, catching up with friends and family and letting my body recover. I'll still be watching the remainder of the IPL as I'll be commentating on the final for Sky a week on Sunday!

England began their summer schedule with a one-day international series win over Ireland

Next up for me cricket wise are hopefully three T20i's against South Africa at the end of June, if selected, which will be a great challenge and then I'm really looking forward to pulling my Sussex shirt back on and playing in the T20 Blast.

The boys have made a good start in the 50 over competition so hopefully it's the beginning of a great summer.

That's it from me! I hope you've enjoyed my ramblings and I hopefully I've given you an insight into life at the IPL through the ups and downs. Thank you for reading. Tymal

Tymal Mills was writing for Sportsmail to support the Matt Hobden Trust.

====== 2139 ========

RUSSIA 2018 WORLD CUP BOSS IN NEW DOPING SCANDAL

The man who led Russia's triumphant 2018 World Cup bid and a key ally of Vladimir Putin is facing a new scandal over claims he silenced a drugs whistleblower.

Multiple sources have alleged to The Mail on Sunday that Vitaly Mutko, the president of Russia's FA, ordered Darya Pishchalnikova in 2013 to retract evidence she had secretly submitted in 2012 to world sporting bodies about state-sponsored doping.

The incendiary claim casts fresh doubt on the credibility of Mutko, Russia's former sports minister, who is now deputy prime minister.

Doubts have been cast over the credibility of Russia's former sports minister Vitaly Mutko

Mutko is a close ally of Vladimir Putin (left) and is currently Russia's deputy prime minister

He is standing for re-election to the all-powerful FIFA council, a role for which he must pass an integrity test. Mutko is apparently on the verge of passing that test even though he has already been cited by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) for his alleged role in Russian doping.

The result of the vetting process, by FIFA's review committee, will be announced by European football body UEFA because Mutko is one of their candidates for the FIFA role.

His case has been examined by the panel's chairman Miguel Poiares Maduro, a former Portuguese government minister, his deputy Mukul Mudgal of India and Peru's Felipe Cantuarias.

On Saturday night, a senior governance expert with inside knowledge of the FIFA administration was scathing at the prospect of Mutko being cleared.

'Other people have failed integrity tests for far less than what Mutko is accused of,' he said. 'It seems pretty clear he was part of the [doping] system and if you are under serious suspicion, that needs to be seriously vetted. The fact is FIFA's governance system has imploded. It's one big sham.'

The notion that Mutko is innocent of doping will be challenged by these new allegations he effectively silenced Pishchalnikova.

Multiple sources allege Mutko ordered Darya Pishchalnikova to retract secret evidence

How the Mail on Sunday has led the way

Russia has always vehemently denied running a state-sponsored doping programme, first exposed by this newspaper in July 2013 when we named lab boss Grigory Rodchenkov as central to the plot. The MoS revealed at the time that senior coaches were involved in doping and cover-ups across multiple sports.

Pishchalnikova, a discus thrower, won a silver medal at London 2012 but was later told she had tested positive for performance-enhancing drugs for the second time in her career. She responded by writing to WADA and the governing body of athletics, the IAAF, in late 2012. Her letter, seen by The MoS, named Russia's athletics federation president Valentin Balakhnichev, coaches Valentin Maslakov and Alexei Melnikov and Rodchenkov among those involved in a doping scam.

Three separate sources with knowledge of events have told The MoS that Pishchalnikova was ordered to meet Mutko in early 2013. WADA had sent her letters to Russia's authorities believing they would sort out the problem.

A letter written by Pishchalnikova in 2012 named Valentin Balakhnichev among those involved

Two sources are whistleblowers involved in this newspaper's original exposé — one a coach, the other a lawyer. Another is close to the athlete. Separately, former Russian anti-doping official and whistleblower Vitaly Stepanov has told The MoS his own sources recounted the same version of events.

'That's the story I heard,' Stepanov said, adding that Pishchalnikova now avoids any mention inside Russia about related issues. 'It sounds like she is enjoying her life,' Stepanov says. 'She doesn't talk about doping.'

It is alleged Mutko told Pishchalnikova that 'the president' [Putin] needed the Moscow anti-doping lab 'for the Olympics' and her testimony to WADA should be withdrawn. Sources allege Pishchalnikova initially declined to do as requested, but agreed after being told she faced a life ban if she failed to help Mutko, and a 10-year ban if she helped. Pishchalnikova ended up with a 10-year ban.

It is alleged she declined to do as requested, and was eventually handed a 10-year ban

She did not respond to a request for comment about Mutko's role. It is believed she feels she has been a victim of the system once already and sees no benefit in commenting.

Her family's view is perhaps reflected by the fact that Pishchalnikova's mother, Tatiana, last year signed an online petition calling for Mutko to be sacked when he was sports minister.

It read: 'Mutko's work as a minister compromises Russian sport, puts children and teenagers off sports and causes huge damage to the image of our country in the world.'

Mutko (right) is currently standing for re-election to the all-powerful FIFA council

The petition makes reference to the fact that independent reports have named Mutko as knowledgeable about and complicit in doping.

The MoS sent detailed questions to both Russia's Ministry of Sport — where Mutko was in charge in 2013 — and to his current office of Mutko as deputy PM.

Sports Ministry spokeswoman Lyudmila Derevyanko said in a statement: 'All your questions concern Vitaly Leontiyevich Mutko. We have nothing to say about this, so we have passed them to his office in the government.'

An official at Mutko's office said by telephone: 'No one can dictate to the deputy prime minister when he should answer something', and then hung up.

Mutko watches the downhill ski competition at the 2014 Winter Paralympics with Putin

Stepanov, who worked for years at Russia's anti-doping agency (RUSADA) before revealing the truth and fleeing the country for his own safety, is certain Mutko played a key role in the doping conspiracy.

'He was minister [of sport] at the time and he couldn't stay in his position if [Russia's poor performance at the 2010 Winter Olympics in] Vancouver happened again.

'During my time at RUSADA I could see people loyal to him put into important positions.

'The guy was clearly setting us his own agenda. The guy must be banned from sports for life. There is no discussion. He destroys Olympic values.

'This happens not only in Russia. That's how he justifies it. "I'm not the only one".'

Additional reporting: ANDREW WARSHAW

====== 2140 ========

STUART BROAD IS THE COMPLETE TEST BOWLER... WE CAN BOTH BE GRUMPY, BUT WE BOTH DESPERATELY WANT TO WIN

I will miss not playing with Stuart this week because we have developed a good relationship on and off the field as England team-mates.

It's one that has come into its own in the last five years. Matt Prior was always Stuart's big mate and Graeme Swann mine but once they'd gone we were two of the team's older guys and become closer.

We are quite similar characters. We can both be grumpy and we desperately want to win. What we have really figured out together is a way to make our partnership work so that we can help the team.

James Anderson will miss not playing with Stuart Broad after building a good relationship

The pair are similar characters - they can both be grumpy and desperately want to win

Our main aim, every time we walk across that white line, is to try to get the team into a position where we can win a game of cricket.

That's the only thing we think about: what can we do individually and as a pair to affect the game? We constantly talk about that out there together and then among the bowling group as a whole.

There wasn't much unity in the bowling group when we started so we've both made a point of trying to make sure that is now the case and we help any new lads coming into the team.

We feel it's our duty to help them settle, relax and enjoy themselves so they can show off their skills.

It's quite an achievement to reach 100 Test caps — maybe more so for a fast bowler than a batsman.

You tend to go through more ups and downs in your career because you have the added injuries to contend with as well as lack of form, and that's why there aren't many bowlers who make it to 100.

Anderson and Broad feel it is their duty to help the new lads settle, relax and enjoy themselves

Broad, aged five, has cricket in the blood thanks to father Chris, who opened for England

Test cricket is hard on the body and Stuart, now 30, has to take credit for looking after himself. Also, skills-wise he has worked really well at his game.

His bowling has come under scrutiny on several occasions. There was a lot of talk about his role in the team: was he an enforcer, a pitch-up bowler, a swing bowler?

But if you had to sum him up he is all of them and more because to prosper as a bowler in Test cricket you have to be able to deliver about five different roles.

Whether people were telling him to do this or that — be the enforcer bowling bouncers in the middle of the innings, for example, or if he was searching for a particular niche for himself — he always had so many other strings to his bow.

It just took time for them all to come out.

Look at him now and he is almost the complete bowler. He might not have as much pace as he used to but he can still bowl late-80mph.

Broad is almost the complete bowler; despite being 30 years old he can still bowl late-80mph

He can pitch the ball up and swing it, nip it off the seam, he has a good bouncer, he's big at reverse swing and has a great leg-cutter that causes a lot of trouble, especially on the subcontinent.

Taking the new ball as senior bowler has simplified things for him. There is no need to define him. He is another leader in our attack.

There's no need for instructions like 'you've got to pitch it up, you've got to bowl a touch fuller because you're tall'.

Now his responsibility is to think for himself, look after the other bowlers and be there to be called upon when needed — to bowl in different situations in varying conditions. Versatility becomes easier with experience.

Anderson does not believe Broad's 8-15 at Trent Bridge was his best spell

Broad was sensational against New Zealand at Lord's in 2013, taking seven wickets in 11 overs

People will always talk about it but I don't think his eight for 15 in the 2015 Ashes was particularly his best spell.

It was in helpful conditions, against not the strongest Australian team we've played against over the years, so in comparison to others in his career it wouldn't be the one I'd rate top.

Yes, it looked great, but I think he has bowled much better. The two that stand out for me are in the fourth innings of the New Zealand Test at Lord's in 2013, when we bowled them out for 68 and he got seven-for 44 — it was a brutal spell really, proper amazing cricket during which he went for four an over but looked threatening every ball — and in the 2009 Ashes at The Oval when the game was going nowhere against a strong Australia.

Broad was brilliant in the 2009 Ashes at The Oval when the game was going nowhere

That was the best of the lot. It was a crucial Test match, on a flat wicket and Australia had started well. He got Shane Watson lbw in his first over to start it all off and then Ricky Ponting chopped on.

Suddenly wickets started to tumble, he got on this roll and while I have been on a field with him that's definitely the best spell I've seen him bowl.

He took only five on that occasion but he completely changed the course of the game.

====== 2141 ========

JESSICA ENNIS-HILL BECAME A TRACK GIANT AND IS COMFORTABLY AMONG ALL-TIME FIVE GREATEST BRITISH FEMALE ATHLETES

Jessica Ennis-Hill has had a brilliant career. When you think that Kelly Sotherton, the Olympic heptathlon bronze medallist, used to call her ‘Tadpole’ it puts into perspective just what Jess — who is only 5ft 4in — has achieved. She’s done well for a little ’un!

Jess would comfortably be among the five greatest British female athletes of all time and, had she not suffered a couple of injuries over the years, she could have been one of our best athletes in history.

The thing that always strikes me about Jess is that she is a brilliant athlete who has remained ordinary. I mean that in a very positive way: she’s still the girl next door, a really down-to-earth woman with no airs or graces.

Jessica Ennis-Hill could have been one of Britain's best ever athletes if it wasn't for injuries

If Ennis-Hill had won gold at the 2016 Rio Olympics, she may have carried on competing

She isn’t pretentious and tends to keep away from all the film premieres and parties and glitzy events that you get invited to when you’re an Olympic champion. She has stayed in Sheffield and she hasn’t changed as a person over all these years. Jess is still the warm, approachable girl she always was.

Some might argue she never broke the 7,000 points barrier but her British record of 6,955, set in winning gold at London 2012, puts her fifth on the global all-time list. That’s not too shabby, is it? I don’t think she will look back on her career and think about what might have been because she was an athlete who absolutely made the most of her ability.

There’s very little I think she would change.

I was fortunate enough to watch a few of her sessions with her coach, Toni Minichiello, when she was younger and I saw the ferocity with which she trained. I knew she was going to be exceptional if she got a clear run, free of injuries.

Belgium's Nafissatou Thiam (centre) pipped Ennis-Hill to the gold medal at the Rio Olympics

Despite her big success, she remained a really down-to-earth woman with no airs or graces

Thanks to improving at javelin, the Olympic gold medallist became a great multi-eventer

I think the way she improved her throws, particularly the javelin, is what really singled her out as a great multi-eventer. She turned events that were weaknesses into disciplines she could rely on, which is vital in heptathlon. Every event doesn’t have to be great, but you can’t afford to have any weaknesses. You can’t waste that emotional energy worrying that they’re coming around. Jess realised that and managed to master the throws.

I’m not surprised she has decided to retire now. If she had won the Olympic gold in Rio it might have given her a reason to carry on until the World Championships in London next year, but you know when it’s the right time.

She came so close in Rio, too. If it hadn’t been for Nafi Thiam setting five personal bests in seven events over the best two days of her life, Jess would have won a second Olympic title. She has already been a world champion twice before and so what’s the point in going for it again if you’re not sure and there’s a challenger to your crown? In some ways it would feel like a waste of a year.

Jess is more into her family life now and she may now be able to have another child by next summer, if that’s what she wants to do. Her family is now her priority so it’s absolutely right that she puts them first.

Ennis-Hill trained with such ferocity with her coach Toni Minichiello (left)

Ennis-Hill was always going to be exceptional if she didn't pick up any injuries along the way

She has also been lucky because her agent, Jane, has been with her for a long time and so she has been savvy about what she’s done away from the track.

Jess has earned well from her career and it means she doesn’t have to chase the money now. She can spend more time with her husband Andy, her son Reggie and whoever might come along in future! We will miss her, but I don’t know if athletics is a poorer place now she’s gone.

She will be replaced because that’s the nature of sport. We have had lots of athletes over the last 50 years who have been pretty good and then retired and the sport has survived. We remember them fondly and appreciate what they achieved but we must look to the future.

Whether anyone will be able to win all the things Jess has done in multi-events, though, remains to be seen.

====== 2142 ========

CHRIS MEARS: OLYMPIC GOLD IS ONLY JUST SINKING IN WITH LA ESCAPE FOLLOWING THE POST-RIO WHIRLWIND

Only now can I say that becoming the first to win an Olympic diving gold medal for Team GB has sunk in.

I'd done so many interviews that I hadn't had a chance to think about what it really meant. After getting back from Rio, I did press and media for 48 hours then flew straight out to LA.

While I've been out here I've had loads of time and, although it may sound cliched, I feel complete in a way. I'm carrying no doubts about anything — I feel absolutely free.

Chris Mears and Jack Laugher won gold in the diving synchronised 3m springboard

After a whirlwind of celebrations and media duties the achievement is just sinking for Mears

The 23-year-old had to wait for Laugher to finish his individual event before he could celebrate

I still feel my normal self but I'm constantly in a good mood because no-one can take away what I've done. It's with me for life now. In terms of sport it's the biggest thing you can do, so it really genuinely feels amazing.

I'm not sure where I'll put the gold medal. At the moment I'm carrying it around everywhere because I'm scared it will get stolen! I might get it framed, but it will have to be a frame where I can get it out easily because I'm not sure how many times I'll need to get it out and have a feel of it when I'm feeling sad!

I'm in LA until mid-September and while I'm here I'm holidaying, having meetings, doing a bit of music here and there, doing music production — just stuff that I've been sacrificing to get that result.

I don't want to switch off. I learned a lot from London four years ago. I finished fifth and ninth aged 18 and was absolutely buzzing, but then I spent a week and a half at home with nothing to do.

The pair are the first British athletes to top the podium in any diving event at the Olympics

All my friends were away and I started getting pretty badly deflated.

I thought, 'If I do another Olympics then I want to have stuff afterwards that I can get stuck in to.' I didn't want to be in the situation where I'd go from winning an Olympic gold medal to sitting at home with nothing to do other than make a cup of tea!

It's been so crazy at home. When I was in London I was stopped in the street everywhere, people congratulating me and getting photos. It was so nice because it's been a life's work and now everyone is sharing that passion with me and congratulating me on our achievement.

It's different to just having a social media following and people asking for a photo because you've got Instagram followers!

I waited for five days to celebrate so I could let Jack compete and make sure he got his result. He did so well to add a silver to our gold. Our celebrations were fairly low-key in the end — we wanted to be safe because there were a lot of mentions about security, getting in taxis and what not.

Mears is going to take a break from the pool and is unsure if he'll compete at Tokyo 2020

We ended up going to a hotel with all of our coaches. The first night we celebrated with them because we owe them so much, then the other nights were just going out and celebrating with the other sports.

The divers and the gymnasts got pretty close while we were away and it was a really nice bond to make. I know Max Whitlock a little from doing Road to Rio and it was nice to meet the other guys. We celebrated with them and went out a few times. Both sports have come a long way at these Games and that was something we both recognised. The flight back from Rio with Team GB was insane! Everyone was bonding, drinking champagne and joking around.

I'm coming back for training on November 1 but I'm not sure when I'm getting back in the pool. I just want to give everyone loads of space. We've spent the last four years working towards this goal and I want to give my support team and coaches time to spend with their families. They have made so many sacrifices for us.

It's hard to say with Tokyo in 2020 but I'm definitely going to go on until at least the Commonwealth Games in two years' time. When I get to that point I'll evaluate where I'm at physically and mentally. It depends if I'm in a good shape and my heart is still in diving — although I can't see why it wouldn't be.

Harry Brown, Sally Brown, Mears, Adam Gemili, Katarina Johnson-Thompson, Rebecca James, Max Whitlock have been taking part in Sportsmail's Road to Rio series

====== 2143 ========

FRANCE WERE WEIGHED DOWN BY BURDEN OF EXPECTATION AFTER PORTUGAL STAR CRISTIANO RONALDO LIMPED OUT OF EURO 2016 FINAL

I watched the final between France and Portugal with my Stoke City team-mates in our hotel in Austria and we all watched on in shock when Cristiano Ronaldo went down injured.

Most people would have expected the French to win after that but the hosts seemed to lose their way. You would have expected Portugal to doubt themselves in that situation but it was as though their players grew a couple more inches without their captain.

France had started well but they became disorientated when Ronaldo went off. That can happen when the opposition loses their best player.

Cristiano Ronaldo's Euro 2016 final was cut short after he suffered a knee injury in the first half

Portugal's captain tried to continue but was left in tears as he was taken off the field on a stretcher

Ronaldo finished the evening on a high as Portugal stunned France with an extra-time winner

It is possible that the French subconsciously relaxed and complacency creeped into their game. It may also be that the coaching staff spent a long time briefing the French players on how to face Ronaldo and they would not have foreseen a situation where they face a Portugal team without their biggest threat.

Portugal retreated even more and the onus and pressure on the French to break them down grew. The French might have been wondering how the people would react the day after and anxiety can increase.

I remember from my time at Barcelona that there are times when you are favourites in big games that it can become a psychological burden. When everyone is expecting you to win and when you are playing at home as France were, it can become destabilising, particularly when you do not score an early goal and calm the nerves.

France's players were unable to cope with the weight of expectation after Ronaldo left the field

Pepe (left) and William Carvalho (second left) excelled as Portugal kept France at bay on Sunday

Consequently, France were not near their best, too many of their stars didn’t demonstrate their best form and Portugal played at a greater intensity. As the game progressed, you could see France becoming more worried and the seeds of doubts were emerging. Portugal, by contrast, grew in stature, limited France to only one or two big chances and seized the day.

Pepe was a titan in defence. He headed everything, blocked every shot and I think he gained a huge amount of respect in this tournament. William Carvalho was also outstanding in midfield. He was one of their key players, providing balance by shielding the defence, anticipating danger and also using the ball really well. The Sporting Lisbon midfielder would be well suited to the Premier League.

During the knock-out rounds of this tournament, I have been wondering what UEFA could do to make extra-time more exciting. There have been some games that have dragged on and it’s felt like teams were waiting for penalties at times. I don’ t think we should abandon extra-time and skip to penalties.

Eder (second right) became the unlikely hero after netting a rare extra-time winner at the Stade de France

The Portugal substitute is mobbed by team-mates as Portugal pulled off a shock victory over the hosts

I always prefer to have a hero like Eder who does something wonderful and unexpected in normal play than a villain who misses a penalty. Extra-time is a good physical test for players and also psychologically it poses important questions to coaches over their game management and how they use their three substitutes to make the team fresh in extra-time.

I would support a reduction in the length to 20 minutes of extra-time - I think it would give us more intense ten-minute halves in which teams go for the jugular rather than the slow and fearful exchanges we have seen in France.

This hasn’t been a thrilling tournament all the way through but as a football lover, I have enjoyed the moments that Wales and Iceland gave us over the past month.

Hal Robson-Kanu's 'Cruyff Turn' goal was one of several unexpected but thrilling moments

Part of the beauty of these summer tournaments is discovering more about the lesser-known nations and also players you may not have recognised before. We will never forget Hal Robson-Kanu’s piece of skill against Belgium or the night Iceland defeated England.

I have also enjoyed seeing the renaissance of certain players such as the Portuguese duo Nani and Ricardo Quaresma, who have reminded everyone of their natural talent.

My country Spain will of course be gutted to have exited the competition so early.

I’d say the key moment of the tournament was that couple of days where Portugal saw off Croatia and Spain lost to Italy. It showed that counter-attacking football would win over at this tournament over the possession-based style we have seen thrive in recent times.

Defending champions Spain found to their cost that counter attacking football could overcome tiki-taka

I grew up in the La Masia academy and I will always favour a way of playing that encourages teams to have the ball, dominate and nurture expressive players.

However, it is clear there is a challenge from the likes of Leicester, Atletico Madrid, Portugal and Italy in this respect and those teams who are loyal to tiki-taka football now need to discover new ways of unlocking the door and breaking these teams down earlier on in games.

====== 2144 ========

DIMITRI PAYET IS STAYING AT WEST HAM... I WANT HIM TO WIN FRANCE EURO 2016 - SLAVEN BILIC

Few matches in Euro 2016 have left me glued to my chair but I am looking forward to watching France take on Germany in their semi-final.

As a club manager, when you have a player involved there is added interest and there is no doubt Dimitri Payet has been one of the stars of the tournament.

I understand that with his success, all the speculation about his future will follow. I have even seen one report suggesting I don’t want him to do well in case it leads to him leaving West Ham. That is not right. I want him to play great. I want him to score a hat-trick and another hat-trick in the final.

Slaven Bilic says there is 'no doubt' that West Ham's Dimitri Payet has been one of the Euro 2016 star players

The Irons boss wants the best for his player and would like to see Payet fire France to glory

The silky midfielder has been linked with a move to a European giant but Bilic says Payet is going nowhere

I know then that the giant clubs will come but I would love him to stay at West Ham. We have texted each other over the last three weeks and he is happy at the club. He is our player.

The great thing for him is that he has maintained his high level of performance, which is really difficult when you play at the top level.

With France, they are looking to give Dimitri the ball all the time and one of his biggest successes has been to silence all those who didn’t believe he would make it at international level.

The key to the match is that this will be the first game for France where the opposition is also going to attack them.

They are a young side, not so much in terms of age but tournament experience.

The Croatian is proud his player has proven himself at international level and dispelled doubts over his ability

Up to now, against Romania, Albania, Switzerland, Ireland and Iceland, the opposition were all defending. They conceded possession and tried to catch France on the counter-attack.

Here, though, Didier Deschamps’ team can expect a different game, which could be to their benefit. They have players — Antoine Griezmann, Paul Pogba, Payet and Olivier Giroud — who can hurt you.

They can hold the ball with Giroud, they can pass the ball with Payet and Griezmann, while Pogba and Blaise Matuidi can attack space without the ball. If France can defend well as a team, they have a big chance because I can see them hurting Germany.

As for Germany, many countries are looking for their ‘secret’. How do they continue to do well in tournaments?

France have plenty of players capable of firing them into their home final at Euro 2016 past Germany

There are always the same shallow answers — ‘they have a strong mentality’, ‘they work hard’, ‘they’re lucky’, that sort of thing.

My response is everyone works hard. It’s not a question of mentality. It’s more complicated than that. Back in 1998 Germany lost 3-0 to Croatia in a World Cup quarter-final. In Euro 2000 and Euro 2004 they went out in the first round. Even though they reached the 2002 World Cup final in between, they were not happy with the football they were producing and decided something needed to be done.

They totally changed their academy system, investing huge amounts of money into youth. They sent their coaches to Italy and Spain, not to copy but to learn from other countries.

They also began to bring through players of foreign extraction but born in Germany. I spoke to Joachim Low a few times when international coaches met for seminars and he told me that, out of the 23-man squad for the World Cup in South Africa, 11 were German-born but with family roots outside of Germany.

Joachim Low will try to stop Payet and Co with his all-conquering Germany side, who have grown up together

Back in 2004, they invested close to £100million in camps and academies. Every club in the two top divisions had to have a structured academy.

As a result, Germany’s under 17, 19 and 21 sides all won European Championships in 2009. That was a direct result of changing their academy system and investing money — but in a proper way.

That’s why they have done so well. Of course their strong character helps but they have the quality.

England have done this as well but more recently. Success doesn’t come overnight — it took Germany five years. In England, you have had one of the youngest teams in the tournament. You have to be patient.

The Germans have embraced players from all backgrounds and invested in coaching young players very well

We are in Seattle at the moment, in early pre-season but we have been watching the games on TV. My overriding impression of the tournament? It has been very average.

Some of the games, such as Italy versus Germany, were exciting on paper but didn’t really turn out that way. If you are a football fan and you are watching a good game, you don’t want it to stop.

In this tournament, we haven’t seen many like that. Yes, there have been some where you say: ‘OK, this is a good tactical game.’ But there have been others when you are thinking: ‘I want this game to finish but I have to watch it because it’s the Euros.’

====== 2145 ========

MARTIN KEOWN - BOOT ROOM FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Euro 2016's underwhelming group-stage is over and we're well underway with the knockout ties, which have so far proved a little more lively. Here, Sportsmail's expert and Arsenal legend MARTIN KEOWN gives his take on the key stats and facts ahead of England vs Iceland and Italy vs Spain. ...read

====== 2146 ========

MARTIN KEOWN'S BIG MATCH ANALYSIS EURO 2016: ENGLAND VS ICELAND AND ITALY VS SPAIN

Italy and Spain are evenly matched and look poised for penalties

Manager Roy Hodgson is under pressure to get his line-up right

Euro 2016's underwhelming group-stage is over and we're well underway with the knockout ties, which have so far proved a little more lively.

Here, Sportsmail's expert and Arsenal legend MARTIN KEOWN gives his take on the key stats and facts ahead of England vs Iceland and Italy vs Spain.

(Left to right:) Jack Wilshere, Wayne Rooney and James Millner arrive ahead of an England training session

It's up to Roy Hodgson to nail his team selection now we're in the knockout rounds, and one thing he needs to do is to leave Wayne Rooney to get on with it in midfield — don't be tempted to take him off again!

Since the Slovakia game, I hope that every training session has involved our attack trying to penetrate a wall of defenders on the edge of the box.

They need to learn to create space not congestion. Ordinarily we'd be proud of our possession stats and build-up play in this tournament but we have to convert this possession into goals.

Three Lions manager Roy Hodgson is under pressure to get his selection right against Iceland

England (4-1-2-3): Hart; Walker, Cahill, Smalling, Rose; Dier; Alli, Rooney; Sterling, Kane, Sturridge.

Iceland (4-4-2): Halldorsson; Saevarsson, Arnason, R Sigurdsson, Skulason; J Gudmundsson, Gunnarsson, G Sigurdsson, B Bjarnason; Bodvarsson, Sigthorsson.

Verdict: England win 1-0.

Brian Lee's big-match bet: Wayne Rooney to score in an England win is 7-2.

Italy v Spain 5pm Stade de France, LIVE on BBC1

A repeat of the 2012 final might have come too soon for the teams but it will really announce that the tournament is getting serious.

The Italians have fine-tuned their system beautifully and I like seeing them playing with two strikers.

Sergio Ramos and Gerard Pique face a big test looking after Graziano Pelle and Eder instead of one lone centre forward.

Spain captain Sergio Ramos (right) shares a joke with goalkeeper Iker Casillas ahead of the Italy game

Italy boss Antonio Conte made eight changes for the Ireland game so I expect them to be fresher, which could prove pivotal as they're certain to be chasing the ball a fair bit.

Italy (3-5-2): Buffon; Barzagli, Bonucci, Chiellini; Florenzi, Parolo, De Rossi, Giaccherini, Candreva; Eder, Pelle.

Spain (4-3-3): De Gea; Juanfran, Pique, Ramos, Jordi Alba; Fabregas, Busquets, Iniesta; Silva, Morata, Nolito.

Verdict: Italy win on penalties (1-1 aet).

====== 2147 ========

ENGLAND MUST EMBRACE DARK ARTS TO WIN 2016 EUROPEAN CHAMPIONSHIP

Cheating isn’t great, diving isn’t a positive for the game, but it happens, and anyone who leads any ill-thought-out campaign to stamp out diving is wasting their time.

And so it puzzles me why people bang on and on about Jamie Vardy ‘winning’ penalties. Sure it’s not great, but after all the pain England have suffered because of disgraceful decisions and cheating at tournaments over the years there would be something sweet about winning the Euros because of a dodgy penalty.

And anyway, is what Vardy is doing such a terrible thing? He’s running full pace, puts his body between the defender and the ball and goes over when contact is made. Is it such a big deal? Is he pretending to be injured? No. He’s just giving his team the best chance to win the game and he’s prepared to put his own personal reputation on the line for that. I admire that commitment.

England's Jamie Vardy looks to German referee Deniz Aytekin after being brought down in the penalty area

I’ll highlight my own dilemma on this issue first though: my heart wants England to win at all costs. Win the European Championship, or stay on your feet in the box for the good of the game? You can send that moral high horse to the knackers yard,

I want to see England lift the trophy. I don’t want some UEFA prat ruffling England’s football hair and saying how well we’ve done to win the Fair Play Award. I don’t want to end up being one of those vegetarians who constantly craves a bacon sandwich thank you.

So if it’s a straight debate about diving then of course it’s a bad thing. The reality is that we will never eliminate it from the game, so we just have to deal with it. The subsequent question is this: do we want England to be the only ones upholding the moral fortitude of the game while everyone else incorporates falling over into their game and benefits from it? Seems ridiculous when you look at it like that.

I grew up in a house that only had a black and white TV. Cost was prohibitive, but my mum used to say she preferred black and white to colour TV. It made absolutely no sense whatsoever, especially when I was watching snooker. It was a generation thing: she was a woman unable to grasp modern day realities. Like those who long for vinyl, or who only use their mobile for phone calls. They’re limiting themselves unnecessarily.

The 29-year-old falls to the ground following a challenge from the Turkish defensive midfielder

So England need to embrace gamesmanship, cheating, the dark arts, whatever you want to call it.

Like the USA did when they roped in a complete and utter foreigner to score their winning goal against England in the 1950 World Cup. Joe Gaetjens was born in Haiti, and played for Haiti. But in his twenties he washed dishes in New York, which somehow qualified him for the USA side. He was never ever a USA citizen, and in fact played for Haiti again three years later.

In 1986 Diego Maradona punched the ball into the back of the net to beat England, but two games later it was forgotten and he was hailed as the best player in the world as Argentina lifted the World Cup.

Vardy (left) goes to the ground following a collision with Arsenal's Nacho Monreal which results in a penalty

In the same quarter final, Gary Lineker had a great chance to equalise but allowed a defender to clear. Lineker should have used any part of his body to make absolutely sure that ball hit the back of the net – even if it meant punching the ball in.

Lineker was a terrific striker, but instead of being remembered as a World Cup winner, he’s remembered as a player who never got booked. Like anyone cares. I would have been much happier had he cheated and equalised.

Italia 90, the Germans get Gazza booked by rolling around. In 1998 Argentina make sure David Beckham’s stupidity is punished with red by crying and pretending to be injured.

Vardy (left) collides in the penalty area with West Ham's Angelo Ogbonna and receives a second yellow card

Germany 2006 the winker Cristiano Ronaldo ensured Wayne Rooney sees red in the quarter finals of the World Cup.

South Africa 2010 the Germans carry on despite knowing full well Frank Lampard’s effort crossed the line (if only they had the class of Arsene Wenger – remember when he offered to replay that Cup tie with Sheffield United in 1999? That was the right and proper course of action).

Most of the time England have been useless in tournaments, but there is a clear pattern of England being cheated out of World Cups, and all we ever do is roll over and take it.

I’m an England fan, and I don’t like diving and cheating, but if that’s what others are doing, then that’s what we need to do. Otherwise the rest of the football world will laugh at us. Again. Keep on doing what you’re doing Jamie Vardy.

Cristiano Ronaldo winked at Portugal bench after Wayne Rooney was sent off in 2006 World Cup quarter-final

David Beckham was sent off as England were beaten on penalties by Argentina at 1998 World Cup in France

====== 2148 ========

LIAM RIDGEWELL: WALKING ONTO THE PITCH WITH KAKA WAS A REAL PRIVILEGE BUT I'M NOT SURE HE UNDERSTOOD ME

Portland Timbers defender Liam Ridgewell writes his second column for Sportsmail with the 2015 Major League Soccer season well under way in the United States.

Here, the 30-year-old from Bexleyheath discusses his family's visits to Portland, coming up against Orlando City's Brazilian star Kaka and the upcoming clash against fierce rivals Seattle Sounders on Monday morning at 2:30am UK time.

Fifty hours. That was how long a group of our fans camped outside Providence Park before the game against FC Dallas. They already had tickets, but just wanted to be first into the stadium. Sounds crazy right?

I was walking around the city with Nat Borchers and we stopped to have a chat. It’s wicked to see supporters' passion, and they carry that throughout the matches. The atmosphere is special.

On game day I love the national anthem at the start. It’s not mine but it really gees me up. The fans swing their scarves and sing. It’s an honour to play in front of them.

Liam Ridgewell in action for the Portland Timbers with the new MLS season well under way in the States

Ridgewell (right) attempts to gee up his side during a match against New York City FC last week

We beat Dallas 3-1 for our first victory of the season, which was especially pleasing as my children Luca and Eva were over visiting with my parents Bob and Linda. Nice to get up and running.

It’s been raining quite a bit but one day we got the paddle boards out, and the kids had a splash on the lake behind my house.

Luca, who’s nine, came into training with me every day. He pottered about, spoke to the lads, and kicked the ball around. I don’t know about having his old man’s talent – can we call it that? – but he loves it. There is a lot of pressure on younger kids now, I don’t want to be too pushy, let him enjoy it.

He went training with the Timbers Under-9s one day and met Gavin Wilkinson, the general manager, and the owner Merritt Paulson. He was asking loads of questions about how much he’d spent and how much various things cost, as kids do. There were no boundaries. Merritt was lovely and had a bit of banter. Perhaps Luca will pursue a career as an agent!

Either that or a personal trainer. He spotted a dodge ball court at the local play centre so we had a game. After 20 minutes my thighs were burning. It is nothing like the film, there are trampolines and it’s tiring bouncing from one to the next. Luca wanted to keep going. I tried to teach him the dodge, dip, dive, and duck routine but he wasn’t having any of it.

My kids have now left and watching them go at the airport is the hardest thing I’ve ever had to do. It seems to get worse every time. They are coming back in July and I’m excited already.

Ridgewell (back, second right) lines up for a Portland Timbers team photo ahead of an MLS match

Portland Timbers and Orlando City walk onto the field ahead of an MLS match in Oregon earlier this month

Portland Timbers mascot Timber Joey uses a chainsaw to cut a timber slab after a goal is scored

INTRODUCING... NAT BORCHERS Nat is my central defensive partner and beard brother. I’ve been trying to grow mine for ages, everyone tells me to shave but I’m keeping it to annoy people. When I saw Nat’s, though, I just thought, ‘He’s ruined it’. His is huge and makes me look like a nine year old boy. It’s a proper beard, you could certainly hide some squirrels in there. Nat Borchers holds up a timber slab after Portland beat FC Dallas 3-1 earlier this month

The whole family of 12 is flying out and I had Dad doing some jobs around the house to prepare. He’s sorted the outdoor parasols and kegerator, which lets you have beer on tap. I’ve been practising the table tennis ready for a comp with my brothers.

One of them, Gavin, is a travel freak and he’s already bought a book on what to do. There are a lot of vineyards we can visit and we want to trek up Mount Hood, the highest point in Oregon.

It is technically an active volcano, though I read the chances of an eruption in the next 30 years are about three per cent, so I think we’ll be alright. You can ski its slopes and canoe its rivers.

I’d like to stay in a log cabin on a night off. There is no TV and you’re right out in the wilderness, surrounded by woods. Hopefully it will be a good summer.

I’ll be wearing my Thomas Royall shorts when the sun shines. We have just designed our summer 16 range, and had more enquiries from shops. I give my input when I wake up.

To organise the current range we went to a hotel in London (during the MLS winter break) and sifted through thousands of prints laid out in front of us, more or less going off our instincts. Your eyes are popping out by the end of the meeting. Hopefully we’ll see the shorts out in Vegas.

A lot of the success is down to our model Stephen James Hendry. We picked him because we needed to stand out and project the funky hairstyles and tattoos you see around Shoreditch and Hoxton. Our photographer Adam recommended him. He was very much in demand.

He’s a lovely fella. We went out for a meal and he likes to talk football and we like to talk fashion. It’s been great.

After Dallas we lost at home to Orlando, who were inspired by Kaka. He kept it simple with one-twos and his presence on the pitch was clear.

Kaka (front centre) poses for a photo alongside his Orlando City team-mates ahead of the Portland match

Kaka (left) on the ball with Montreal Impact's Nigel Reo-Coker giving chase during a match last month

It was frustrating not to do better but I watched him play in the World Cup so to walk out with him and be captain on the same day was a real privilege. On the pendant handover I said good luck but that was about it. I don’t know if he knows English, Gracias and Bonjour is my lingo limit.

We redeemed ourselves in the next game at New York City, winning 1-0. The clean sheet was hugely satisfying. When I first signed my professional contract with Aston Villa I took the family to America and New York. We did all the shows but not Yankee Stadium, so it was surreal to play on that grass. I got a couple of pictures standing on the pitcher’s mound.

To win there was special. David Villa didn’t play because of injury but hopefully I can face him later on this campaign.

New York City FC's David Villa (right) looks to leave New England Revolution's Scott Caldwell in his wake

Up next on Sunday night US time are Seattle Sounders, our fiercest rivals. I would say local but the city is about 150 miles away. There will be 65,000 there and the atmosphere promises to be intense, louder than a Villa-Blues derby.

Last season I was on the bench as I had just signed and wasn’t able to play. I sat looking at the thousands of fans, the fireworks, and the flags thinking ‘Wow’. I knew I had made the right call to come to the MLS.

Portland Timbers players run out onto the field ahead of clash with rivals Seattle Sounders in 2013

====== 2149 ========

MICHAEL BISPING: ANDERSON SILVA WAS VERY CONDESCENDING AT THE OPEN WORKOUT, BUT HE’LL SOON FIND OUT I’M NOT MESSING AROUND NEXT WEEK

Michael Bisping will take on mixed martial arts legend Anderson Silva in London on February 27 month as he bids to finally secure a middleweight title shot.

And in the build-up, he will be writing exclusively for Sportsmail about the fight as well as his views on the burning issues in the UFC.

This week the middleweight stalwart talks about Anderson Silva's condescending manner as they came face-to-face in Los Angeles and how he still has another 13 or 14 pounds to lose before the big fight.

We had our open workouts in Los Angeles last week when I came face to face with Anderson Silva. I was walking by and said hello and wished him luck for London but he was very condescending.

He was trying to be humorous and was all fun and games but Anderson is always like that. We had a very light-hearted verbal sparring session, I didn't want to take it to the next level. I wanted to let him know how it's going to do down next week, of course, but that wasn't the time or the place for anything more serious. There's plenty of the time for that to happen.

When we square up for the media events next week, that's my chance to let this guy know I'm not messing around and that I'm not coming for fun and games. My entire life has been building up to this, it's the biggest fight of my life and I've trained accordingly and left no stone unturned.

Michael Bisping prepares for his fight with Anderson Silva during an open workout in Torrance last week

'The Count' drills his striking in the UFC training Octagon in California ahead of travelling to London

Silva takes part in the opening training session for the fans ahead of UFC Fight Night in London

Silva posted a photo on Instagram on Friday as he continued his preparations for the fight against Bisping

I'm not going in there to make friends or to put on a good performance, I'm in there to destroy this guy, to drag him into deep water and give him an experience that he wants to stop as soon as it starts. I'm going to make it very uncomfortable in there and I'll let him know that next week.

I think I can gain the mental edge on him and I'm sure he thinks he can gain it on me but I think he's cracking to be honest. The word is he wasn't going to show up for the open workouts and that the UFC had to coax him into turning up. Then his manager called my coach and asked him to get me to stop bringing up the steroids.

He can say whatever he wants about me, I respect the guy, he's a tough fighter, but he's done some things he needs to pay for and on February 27 I'll make him see the error of his ways. He's had one fight in the last two years, he tested positive before his last fight and he lost the two fights prior to that. He's feeling the pressure and I'm a terrible match-up for him.

Bisping throws a left high kick as he goes through his paces at the training facility in California

Bisping came face to face with Silva at the open workouts, two weeks before their fight in the UK

Former UFC middleweight champion Silva (right) spars with a training partner at the open workouts

All my hard training is done and I fly into London on Friday. I'll be getting situated in a hotel, situated in a training area and just focusing on making the weight. There won't be time for friends and family unfortunately, until the fight happens it is all business.

Making weight doesn't get easier, certainly as you get older it gets harder but I've had the help of a great nutritionist in Dan Garner. My weight is in the target area and I feel stronger than I ever have at this weight.

Typically when you lose weight you lose a bit of strength but that hasn't been the case this time. I've still got another 13 or 14 pounds to lose yet but that is a process I'm used to. It's not pleasant but it's part of the game.

Bisping is interviewed by members of the media following the open training session at the UFC Gym

Bisping trains last week in Torrance - but he still has another 13 or 14 pounds to lose before the big fight

The fight in London will be Silva's first since taking on Nick Diaz in Los Angeles in January 2015

Fight week can be very tiring. Even though England is my home, I'm away from my support network and creature comforts. I'm not sleeping in my own bed and I know that might sound stupid but the bed or the pillows might not be great and I'll be dealing with jet lag so might not get good sleep.

I'm living out of a suitcase, pulling out the same old crap every day, trying to find a pair of socks or underwear while running late because I've got to get to a media event. Then I have to make sure my team-mates are all good because they haven't been to the country before and they don't know what's going on.

====== 2150 ========

LYNSEY HIPGRAVE RIGHT TO CONFRONT ABUSERS AFTER BT SPORT PRESENTER RECEIVED SHOCKING SEXIST ABUSE ON TWITTER

Perhaps the most worrying aspect of Lynsey Hipgrave’s brush with Twitter this week is that the BT Sport presenter should have some regrets about highlighting the sexist abuse polluting her timeline.

Hipgrave’s only crime was to have a view on Lionel Messi’s penalty last Sunday, just one of several hundred thousand tweets after he rolled the ball into the path of Luis Suarez at the Nou Camp.

What followed was an alarming wave of sexist abuse, much of it so improper that Hipgrave decided to retweet some of the messages.

Lynsey Hipgrave was subjected to abuse on Twitter after labelling Lionel Messi's penalty as 'disrespectful'

Hipgrave was anchoring BT Sport's Europa League coverage on Thursday night

Hipgrave alongside (left to right) Jermaine Jenas, Steve McManaman and David James

The BT Sport presenter was soon subjected to criticism from online trolls who claimed she should 'stay in the kitchen' and 'shut up' after posting her opinion of the penalty on Twitter (pictured)

Messi tees up the ball from the penalty spot for the on-rushing Suarez (right) on Sunday night

A quick trawl through her Twitter feed will give a better insight into the kind of routine abuse to which women working in sport have become accustomed.

One tasteless individual made an obscene observation before concluding ‘this is why we don’t hire females unless we need our food cooked’.

In an era when Sky Sports, for example, use many women presenters, it is important that the football community really understands the challenging issues they face.

Until Hipgrave highlighted the problem, many were probably unaware of the derogatory comments that female presenters receive every day.

It is a question of respect. There is no justifiable excuse for someone responding to Hipgrave with such inappropriate comments.

Examples of the abuse Hipgrave received on Twitter following her tweet about Messi's penalty

Although unaware that it would become one of the week’s major talking points, there is no reason she should regret bringing it to public attention. Instead, it is for Twitter to put appropriate controls in place.

If the organisation can involve the police when it comes to racist abuse, they should be just as pro-active with sexist comments.

Hipgrave does not stand alone. Countless female TV presenters have had similar experiences after posting an observation on a public platform. Sadly, Twitter’s 305million active users prefer to ignore these issues rather than confront them.

It has not been an easy week for Hipgrave, with various TV programmes, newspapers (including this one) and magazines asking her to speak on the issue. So far, she has declined them all.

In the past, like most women in an environment dominated by males, she has ignored the regular Twitter abuse telling her to ‘get back into the kitchen’.

By working with former professional footballers Hipgrave knows that the laddish culture of the dressing room is soon transferred to the green room when ex-players get together.

Hipgrave, pictured with Ian Wright, centre, and Peter Taylor, right, works as a presenter for BT Sport and co-hosts a BBC Radio 5 Live show with Danny Baker

The 36-year-old retweeted the worst of the abuse for her 27,000 Twitter followers before posting this message

Having previously worked with Hipgrave, who was hosting Thursday night’s Europa League coverage on BT Sport, she is not a woman who is easily offended. She grew up in Newcastle in a household dominated by talk of the Kevin Keegan team that nearly won the Premier League in the mid-Nineties.

At weekends she would go with her dad to reserve team games at St James’ Park, or to watch her brother playing for Blaydon Youth.

When it comes to football she is passionate and would certainly prefer to be remembered for her skills as a TV presenter rather than as a glamorous pin-up.

In terms of her professional approach to her broadcasting career, you would be hard pushed to find anyone who works harder on preparation and research.

Unwittingly, Hipgrave has forced attention on to the issue of sexist abuse. It is something for which she should be saluted. Without it, the rogues who ruin the Twitter experience win hands down.

Arnesen chases United role

Frank Arnesen has not worked in English football since leaving Chelsea in 2010, but his name has come up again as the Glazers consider a reshuffle at Manchester United.

Ed Woodward, the executive vice chairman, has no intention of giving up handling player recruitment, but Arnesen, 59, is nothing if not a charmer when it comes to talking himself into jobs.

Frank Arnesen has not worked in English football since leaving Chelsea in 2010

Woodward has handled all major transfer activity since replacing David Gill, but the appointment of a technical director at United is still a possibility.

Arnesen’s reputation took a battering as sporting director at Chelsea, where his relationship with Jose Mourinho was never on an even keel.

Mourinho’s resolve to land the United job in the summer will be something Arnesen needs to work on if he is to convince the Glazers to hire him.

The financial commitment to Chelsea’s youth academy by club owner Roman Abramovich shows no sign of slowing up after work began on a new indoor centre at the club’s training ground.

Chelsea, under pressure from Manchester City, Barcelona and Real Madrid for the world’s best youngsters, expect the facelift to be completed before the start of next season.

Referee Bobby Madley responded to player power at Selhurst Park when he awarded Watford captain Troy Deeney a 16th-minute penalty last Saturday.

Deeney told Madley to watch Palace midfielder Mile Jedinak holding him before the corner kick was taken, an incident that led to the referee correctly giving Quique Sanchez Flores’ team the chance to score from the spot.

Troy Deeney celebrates after scoring a penalty for Watford against Crystal Palace on Saturday

Manchester City pulled out of a move to buy a mystery club in South America last month and have instead turned their attention to the rapidly growing football market in China.

====== 2151 ========

SAM BURGESS: I COULDN'T DO ANYTHING RIGHT. I WAS FIGHTING A LOSING BATTLE PLAYING RUGBY UNION IN ENGLAND

My decision to leave Bath and move back to Australia was for personal reasons, but it was also because I wanted to spend the rest of my career playing the game that’s in my heart.

Rugby league is in my heart. I’m looking forward to getting back to Sydney, where I’ll be with my family and playing for the Rabbitohs alongside my brothers again.

Part of me is disappointed to be leaving. Everyone is saying I’ve taken the easy option but it would have been easier to stay and play on in union. I could have just kept playing at six for Bath, but I believe it would have taken about 18 months for me to break into the England team in that position — and my contract is up in about 18 months. In sport we have a very limited window in which to compete at the top level and I didn’t want to see those 18 months go by without the same excitement and enthusiasm as the previous 12.

Sam Burgess is returning to play rugby league in Australia to finish his career playing the sport he loves

Burgess is looking forward to being with his family Down Under and playing for the South Sydney Rabbitohs with his brothers again (l-r, Sam, Luke, Julie (mother) , George and Thomas Burgess pictured in October 2014)

Burgess and fiancee Phoebe Hooke are planning to start a family and would rather do so in Sydney

The 26-year-old says the easy option would have been to continue playing rugby union for the next 18 months

Away from rugby, I had to weigh up, long-term, whether I wanted to be in England. My fiancee and I are hoping to start a family in the next year or two and it would be great to have our kids in Sydney where their grandparents will be around to help out.

It was tough going in to see Mike (Ford, Bath’s head coach) to ask to be released from my contract. I know I have disappointed some of the players and fans at Bath. I completely understand why they would feel that way. I am sorry for the fact that I’ve left a hole in that team

But the way I explained it was that my heart just isn’t in it, and if my heart’s not in it then they won’t get the best performances from me. Either way, I’m doing the wrong thing, so I thought I would be a man about it, go in, be honest with them and see if we could sort something out that worked for both parties. They were disappointed but we came to an arrangement that represented fairness.

We didn’t actually plan for it to happen as quickly as it did. We were looking towards Christmas as the time for me to leave, but then the transfer fee got paid and after that it was out of my hands. I trained on Tuesday, expecting to play the following weekend, but then everything got sorted overnight and my services were no longer required.

I wanted to go in and see the team, to get my point across, but Stuart Hooper, our captain, said he didn’t think I’d be well received there, which was fair enough — if that’s how he felt. I wanted to go and say goodbye, not just as a team-mate but as a friend, but that didn’t happen. I’ve not been back in there, but I’ve spoken to guys away from the club.

Burgess had to ask to be released from his contract at Bath and is sorry he has left a hole in the team

He says he didn't plan to leave as quickly as he did but his swift exit was eventually out of his hands

Burgess wanted to say goodbye to his team-mates and friends but was told he wouldn't be well received

Burgess poses for a selfie in his car during his Bath days with fiancee Phoebe (left) and mother Julie (centre)

SAM BURGESS SUPER STAT 1,430 - Minutes Sam Burgess played in his rugby union career, which included 21 matches for Bath and 5 Tests for England.

The RFU have come in for a lot of stick for my decision, which I think is unfair. They didn’t make it for me. They didn’t push me into it. In fact, they have been supportive through it all. I disagree with this idea that I have been let down or treated badly. The RFU have not treated me badly.

I came to union to try to play at 12, but I ended up playing at six for Bath. I managed to get into the England training squad as a 12, even though I was playing as a flanker for my club. The competition in the back row was really tough and I had no chance of making the team there, but at 12 I had a better shot because there aren’t as many technicalities in the way so you can learn it quicker. At six England wanted a jumping option in the lineouts, an area in which I have no experience.

To get in that 31-man squad, I had to work so hard. To crack it was really, really tough but I loved that. I made it into the team as a 12 and I really felt that I fully deserved to be there. I think a lot of people outside the England camp had an agenda against both England and in some circumstances, me. Certain ex-players had an agenda and sections of the media had an agenda, too. I also think certain coaches not involved with England had an agenda.

Slowly but surely, when you are trying to get support within the team and the voices from outside with an agenda are so strong, it’s too powerful. No matter what I did, I always felt that I was fighting a losing battle.

Burgess says he had to work 'so hard' to get into the 31-man squad for the Rugby World Cup in England

He feels he deserved to be there after impressing in an unfamiliar position and says he wasn't treated badly

Burgess insists he thoroughly enjoyed his four months with the England squad preparing for the World Cup

SAM BURGESS - CODE CROSSER RUGBY LEAGUE 2006-09: Bradford Bulls (88 matches, 17 tries) 2010-14: South Sydney Rabbitohs (95 matches, 26 tries) Great Britain: 2 Tests, 1 try England: 13 Tests, 7 tries RUGBY UNION 2014-15: Bath (21 matches, 4 tries) England Saxons: 1 match England: 5 Tests

That was an upsetting factor to me; that people who are supposed to love the game are actually tearing it to shreds. I felt like certain people didn’t want England and Stuart Lancaster to succeed. They were after him — so aggressively. He could never do a thing right, no matter what. I was right in the middle of that and it is unbelievable. It’s not a productive place to be.

Some ex-players just kept letting rip. It was a losing battle from day one. I couldn’t believe it. It’s almost like they don’t want anyone else to do well in the jersey. That’s definitely the feeling I got in rugby union. And since the tournament, there have been players coming out in the press, leaking stories. I find that really disappointing and I didn’t want to stay in a sport like that. It makes it harder to build on when people from the inside are crumbling.

If I hadn’t made the World Cup squad, I don’t think much would have changed. Those four months with England were possibly the most enjoyable four months I had in union, barring the end result. I had an awesome time. The training was tough and intense. I made new friends and felt like I had some amazing growth as a player. What makes it tough is everything going on around it — especially when you are a convert from league.

There have been some comments about the timing of my move back to league, but I don’t think the timing was ever going to be good. It was always going to be noisy and messy, unless I stayed for another 18 months, which I didn’t see happening.

The rugby league convert believes certain people didn't want England and Stuart Lancaster to succeed

Some ex-players criticised Burgess from the start and he felt like he was fighting a losing battle in England

SAM BURGESS TIMELINE Feburary 2014: Burgess announces he will switch to rugby union October 2014: NRL Grand Final with South Sydney Rabbitohs against Sydney Roosters, winning Clive Churchill Medal for man of the match after playing most of game with broken cheek and eye socket October 2014: Official contract with Bath and rugby education begins November 2014: Debuts for Bath after recovering from face injuries January 2015: Scored his first Bath try against Wasps at The Rec, named man of the match January 2015: Named in the England Saxons squad to play the Irish Wolfhounds April 2015: Started at blindside flanker for the first time for Bath against Newcastle Falcons and executed more turnovers than any Premiership player in the round August 2015: Named in the England Elite Squad to make his International debut against France at Twickenham. Started in England's 19-14 win; became first England player sin-binned on international debut September 2015: Played 19 minutes in 35-11 bonus point win over Fiji in Rugby World Cup opener September 2015: Controversially started in England's 28-25 loss to Wales; England leading 25-18 when replaced by George Ford October 2015: Replaced Brad Barritt 16 minutes from the end of England's 33-13 loss to Australia that made Lancaster's side the first hosts not to make the quarter-finals October 2015: Given leave from Bath to 'spend time with family' amid speculation over returning to rugby league November 2015: Returned to training with Bath on Monday, November 2, with coach Mike Ford confident he would stay at club. Present: Burgess move to the Rabbitohs is confirmed

Burgess, celebrating with captain Chris Robshaw (left) and team-mates, felt he grew in stature as a player

I’ve been in contact with Madge (Michael Maguire, Rabbitohs coach) and Russell (Crowe, Rabbitohs co-owner) since I’ve been here, from day one. Yes, I spoke to Madge the day after we lost to Australia and yes, I watched the Grand Final that morning — of course I did, because I love rugby league. I sat at breakfast, watching the final on my phone. It was a bloody exciting game.

In rugby league, I used to get to certain times in the game when I was completely, physically gone. You feel like you are out on your feet, with the ball being in play for so long and my point of difference at times in league was being able to beat that, mentally, and help a few of the other boys get through it as well.

That’s what I enjoyed in rugby league; getting to that tough period as a player and getting through it.

Looking back, that’s what makes me love the game so much; the actual physical battle of it. Yeah, union is tough, there are tough parts of it, but I never found myself reaching that point. League took me to places I’d never been before in games but I never found that in union.

But it’s not the case that I was in a hurry to get out. We finished at the World Cup and I was deflated with the way things had gone and how the ‘blame game’ was played out and dealt with. It made me question whether I wanted to be part of it. I felt I was never going to win, regardless of what happened, so I thought: ‘I’m going to stop wasting my own time and everyone else’s time here.’

Burgess had been in contact with actor Russell Crowe (Sydney Rabbitohs co-owner) since arriving in England

The 26-year-old wasn't in a hurry to get out but questioned whether he wanted to be part of the 'blame game' after England's disappointing exit in the group stages at the 2015 World Cup

I’ve been criticised for my performances at the World Cup but I’m proud of how I performed. Yeah, I made a couple of errors like everybody else but if you want to break my game down, let’s look at the facts. While I was on the field, we were never behind, except against Australia when I came on for the last eight minutes.

Against Wales, I thought we were in complete control. We could have pulled further ahead but we weren’t clinical enough and gave a lot of penalties away. I was blamed for some of those penalties but I actually gave away zero penalties in that game. So if you want to break it down, let’s do that properly. I actually think my performances were fairly decent and I’m proud of that.

I thought the England environment was great and I’m a massive supporter of all the coaches and the squad. As players, I think we should take more responsibility for what has happened. We’re the ones out on the field, so if we think something isn’t right, we should get it changed, but that didn’t really happen.

Lanny has been unfairly criticised, in my opinion. Maybe he is an easy target or people want him gone. That’s what I mean about people having agendas. I feel for him — he’s a great guy and I learned a lot from him as a coach.

He is proud of how he performed at the World Cup - while he was on the field England were rarely behind

Burgess hauls down Australia's Michael Hooper during the crushing Pool A defeat at Twickenham

When I told him about my decision to leave, Stuart was disappointed. It doesn’t look great in the situation as it is now, but he had no clue about this and had never promised me anything. It is tough having to let those guys down and they got their point across to me, but they respected my decision.

I’ve spoken to quite a lot of the other England players and they’ve all been very honest. Some have said they are disappointed in me, but they understand. Some have said they wish I could be around in the future, but they get it. They all accept that it is my career and my decision to make.

Now, I’m looking forward to getting back to my family, to Sydney and to rugby league. My time here will always be remembered. I’ll look back on all the good times I had, not this two-week period of going through the mill.

I don’t have any regrets about playing union. I enjoyed it and met so many good people. I’ve got a lot of good friendships from it, but at the end of the day, the game just didn’t give me as much enjoyment as rugby league gives me.

Burgess doesn't have any regrets and is now looking forward to returning to rugby league in Sydney

Burgess' return to the South Sydney Rabbitohs was confirmed on Twitter by the rugby league side

He has spoken to a lot of other England players and will look back at the good times he had in the sport

====== 2152 ========

PAUL NICHOLLS: IF I HAD A BAG OF CARROTS I WOULD SAVE THE LAST FOR KAUTO STAR

I have trained some wonderful horses but Kauto Star was extra special – probably the most important horse in my life.

He was also a mate. I always said that if I had a bag of carrots I would always save that last for him.

While he was in my Somerset stable, he was the first horse I looked at every morning and the one I could see him all day in his stable from the office window.

Paul Nicholls: I have trained some wonderful horses but Kauto Star was extra special

News of his death has left me and my team, especially my head lad Clifford Baker who looked after him and rode him out almost every day, mortified.

My 2008 Cheltenham Gold Cup winner Denman and four-time World Hurdle winner Big Buck’s were both legends in their own right but Kauto Star was extra special.

He had the speed to win races over two miles like the Grade One Tingle Creek Chase at Sandown and the stamina to twice win the Cheltenham Gold Cup over three and a quarter miles.

Kauto Star had everything you wanted in a champion. Resilience – he bounced back from injury – plus the will to win. He would run himself into the ground for you.

Some of the work he did here at Ditcheat was unbelievable.

The only horse who ever worked better than him was Master Minded a few days before he won the 2008 Champion Chase as a five-year-old by 19 lengths.

It was the only time I saw anything get near him.

Nicholls (right) with owner Clive Smith and Kauto Star with the Cheltenham Gold Cup in 2009

From day one after he arrived from France in 2004, we knew he was different and after he won at Newbury in December the smile on the face of jockey Ruby Walsh said everything.

Next time out at Exeter, when he finished second after falling and being re-mounted, he sustained a hairline leg fracture.

The injury meant three months in box and I always maintain that was the making of Kauto Star. It gave him time to mature rather than us running him that season.

Jumping wise he did occasionally take chances and sometimes he didn’t get away with them.

He could easily have lost his life when being galloped all over in the 2006 Champion Chase and also fell heavily in the 2010 Gold Cup.

Kauto Star being paraded around his home village of Ditcheat after his victory in the King George VI Chase at Kempton in December 2011

But that was Kauto Star – he lived life on the edge and needed channelling in the right direction.

At home, he was always sharp to ride and would whip round at anything. Clifford certainly had some hairy moments on him and you could not just put anyone on him.

Sixteen grade one wins is some record as is two Gold Cups and he was probably not even a true stayer. Hs class saw him home.

It was the three miles at Kempton that was his optimum and where he won his record five King George VI Chases on Boxing Day.

The final one in 2011 stands out for me, especially off the back of his fourth win the Betfair Chase at Haydock.

He’d lost his form and there were questions in the media about whether he should be retired.

Kauto Star, who won a host of races during his time, being ridden by Ruby Walsh in 2004

My neck was on the block but we changed our approach and got him fitter and better. It was probably the best he had ever been.

It was such a shame a fall on the schooling grounds disrupted the build-up to his final run in the 2012 Gold Cup when he was pulled up. I still believe he was capable of winning that race for a third time..

But that was Kauto Star. He took risks, but was brilliant because of that.

He was a horse with nine lives … unfortunately for him they ran out.

====== 2153 ========

MANCHESTER UNITED SET TO MAKE £30M BID FOR REAL MADRID STRIKER KARIM BENZEMA AFTER GARETH BALE DECLARES HE'S STAYING IN SPAIN

Manchester United are set to make a £30million move for Real Madrid striker Karim Benzema after Gareth Bale insisted he was staying at the Spanish club.

United hoped to lure Bale to Old Trafford this summer but the Welsh international is adamant he wants to continue his career in La Liga.

And new manager Rafa Benitez sees him in his plans, not least after he revealed he wants to play Cristiano Ronaldo in a central striking role.

Karim Benzema (right), pictured with rapper Drake in New York, is a transfer target for Manchester United

Gareth Bale, pictured getting away from Barcelona's Neymar, has declared he's staying with Real Madrid

That would put Benzema on the sidelines but give Bale more scope on either flank.

Ideally, Benitez would want to keep Benzema in the squad but it seems the club are ready to cash in on the Frenchman to bolster their transfer funds.

And it is understood United have been alerted that Benzema is up for grabs.

United are set to bid £30m for Benzema, who is likely to find himself behind Cristiano Ronaldo next season

Arsenal and Chelsea are both in the hunt for Napoli's £30m-rated striker Gonzalo Higuain.

It is understood Napoli are ready to sell Argentine and Higuan is just the sort of striker Arsenal need to give their attack an added edge.

In his two years in Serie A with Napoli his strike rate is an impressive 35 goals in 69 games, while for Argentina he has 23 goals in 47 internationals.

Arsenal and Chelsea are both keen on Gonzalo Higuain, pictured celebrating a goal against Lazio last week

Chelsea are said to be considering some sort of deal with Radamal Falcao, although the situation seems to be driven by the player and his agent rather than Chelsea.

But the Blues could see Higuain as the extra striker they need, especially given constant injury concern over Diego Costa.

Higuain, pictured missing a penalty against Lazio, has scored 35 goals in 69 games for Napoli

Liverpool, if they eventually conclude they are better off selling Raheem Sterling this summer, would prefer to offload the player abroad – with Real Madrid the most likely destination – rather than to another English club .

It has been suggested there is no way Liverpool would do business with their bitter north west rivals Manchester United.

Manchester City are said to be poised to make a £30m bid for Sterling, although it is believed Liverpool would want £50m if they did sell.

Raheem Sterling, pictured in England training, is hoping to force through a move away from Liverpool

Arsenal and Chelsea are thought to be assessing the situation too and it is thought the player would prefer a move to London.

But, intriguingly, when unveiled as new Real Madrid boss Bentitez hinted he would be in the market for Sterling as Football Grapevine revealed last week.

And if Sterling is sold a potential replacement is Russian winger Denis Cheryshev – who is at Real Madrid.

Liverpool could move for Real Madrid's Denis Cheryshev (left), who spent last season on loan at Villarreal

West Ham are bracing themselves for £15m raid from Sampdoria for striker Enner Valencia.

Southampton are set to join the race for Charlie Austin, with relegated QPR certain to cash in on the new England striker this summer.

Austin, who is set to make his Three Lions debut against the Republic of Ireland in Dublin on Sunday, is on the wanted list of Tottenham, Newcastle, West Brom and possibly West Ham.

But the Saints are ready to act decisively and offer in the region of £12m for the centre forward.

Southampton will offer in the region of £12million for QPR striker Charlie Austin this summer

Crystal Palace are poised to bid in the region of £15m for Scotland striker Jordan Rhodes.

Rhodes, 25, hit 21 goals for Blackburn in the Championship last summer and is one of several targets on Alan Pardew's summer hit list.

Pardew is looking to bring four players to improve his squad having recently secured Jason Puncheon on a new four-year deal.

Chelsea's Juan Cuadrado could be out of the club this summer just five months after signing for the Blues.

Cuadrado was a £26m signing from Fiorentina in January but the 26-year-old Colombian winger has failed to get game time at Stamford Bridge.

It has been reported in Italy that both Roma and Inter Milan are interested.

Chelsea winger Juan Cuadrado (left) could leave the club this summer despite only joining in January

Sunderland will test Chelsea's will to keep hold of young striker Patrick Bamford.

Bamford impressed in the Championship, scoring 17 goals for Middlesbrough whilst on loan from the Blues.

Ideally Bamford, 21, now wants to be given a chance in the Chelsea first team squad.

Manager Jose Mourinho has yet to be convinced. Chelsea may offer the player a new deal and farm him out again but in that circumstance the England Under 21 international may follow the path of former Chelsea left back Ryan Bertrand.

Since leaving for Southampton last summer after a series of loans, Bertrand has blossomed and forced his way into the England team.

Sunderland will attempt to sign England Under 21 striker Patrick Bamford from Chelsea this summer

I am hearing

Having turned down the chance of declaring for the Republic of Ireland senior team and playing against England, Jack Grealish opted for a more genteel end to the season after his poor display in Aston Villa's 4-0 FA Cup final defeat to Arsenal.

Instead of joining up with Martin O'Neill's squad, the 19-year-old was spotted enjoying some rest and relaxation in Marbella last week.

Despite having played for the Republic at several youth levels and for the Under 21s, the Birmingham-born player with strong Irish roots could yet opt to play for England.

Aston Villa midfielder Jack Grealish (right) is likely to choose to play for England in the future

I am also hearing

Slaven Bilic will meet West Ham joint owner David Sullivan over the weekend.

Bilic is the favourite to succeed Sam Allardyce as new Hammers boss.

It has been reported there are still a couple more candidates in the frame but sources close to the club would not say who they are.

Prime target Frank de Boer of Ajax ruled himself out of the running and the club are keen to make an appointment early in the coming week.

Former Besiktas manager Slaven Bilic will have talks about the West Ham job with co-owner David Sullivan

I-Say

Brazil legend Romario is the man to become the new FIFA president and force real root and branch reform of football's shamed world governing body.

Deluded Sepp Blatter, who announced he would stand down after serious allegations against FIFA officials of corruption, racketeering and bribery, emerged just days after he was ridiculously re-elected somehow thinking he can start the process of reform himself.

Really? Or has just been clinging to power in his office these last few days to operate the paper shredder and bury the bodies?

Former Brazil striker Romario could be the perfect man to replace Sepp Blatter as FIFA president

Blatter heads for the exit door at FIFA's headquarters in Zurich after announcing his resignation on Tuesday

That so many officials and delegates stayed loyal to Blatter indicates that the corruption is a cancer that has spread across much of FIFA's body.

Only a completely new man can come in and revolutionise the regime.

Why Romario?

Well, he knows the game as one of the all-time great players.

And since retiring he has become a power figure in Brazilian politics constantly battling against corruption.

Indeed, he is part of a congressional probe into whether Nike and other sponsors influenced the selection of Brazil players since 1998.

A World Cup winner and Brazil's third highest all-time scorer behind Ronaldo and Pele, Romario would command instant respect of the decent football community around the world and he understands politics too.

And if he wanted a solid citizen and experienced football administrator alongside him there would be no better than former Manchester United chief executive David Gill.

Romario, pictured celebrating a goal for Brazil against Bolivia in 2000, won 70 caps for his country

David Gill, pictured shaking hands with Blatter during FIFA's 65th congress, could help Romario lead FIFA

He demonstrated his principles by resigning from his role at FIFA's top table as soon as Blatter was re-elected.

Gill is undoubtedly untarnished by the allegations so many FIFA officials face and would help guide Romario through the tangled web of FIFA's structure and also be a conduit with the powerful brokers in European club football and UEFA.

Interestingly, Romario was strong enough to say exactly what he thought about FIFA under Blatter when he wrote the foreword to a book called 'Omerta: Sepp Blatter's FIFA Organised Crime Family' written by journalist Andrew Jennings, who helped the FBI and the Swiss authorities make the moves which have exposed FIFA and brought Blatter down.

It's time football was run by a real football man interested in the good of the game and its fans, not the greed of bureaucrats.

====== 2154 ========

I HAVE NEVER VOTED FOR CHELSEA BOSS JOSE MOURINHO AS PREMIER LEAGUE MANAGER OF THE MONTH - AND IT'S A COMPLIMENT TO HIM

Confession time - I have never voted for Jose Mourinho as Barclays Manager of the Month.

I joined the panel, which is a cross-section of media, administrators, ex-players and fans based overseas and here in the UK, last summer.

Votes are normally submitted electronically but there are three opportunities to meet, discuss football and vote in-person each season. The main criteria is performance, but behaviour and bringing the game into disrepute should also be considered.

Jose Mourinho has won the Premier League for the second time without winning Manager of the Month

Nigel Pearson won the latest Manager of the Month, meaning Mourinho will not take the award once this season

Mourinho's Chelsea teams are always so impressive, it's difficult for them to surprise by winning

The Chelsea boss usually features among the four-man shortlist provided by the organisers each month because it based purely on simple statistics - wins, losses and goals scored - and Mourinho's side have cruised to the Premier League title, but you can select any of the 20 top-flight managers if you like.

Personally, I tend to vote to reward exceptional performance in that given month.

A manager who has stopped a dismal run of form and changed his club's fortunes around, or a boss whose side have fared well in a particularly difficult run of matches.

I also try to look beyond the legion of strikers who typically dominate any votes of this nature and pick out defenders or goalkeepers whose performances are not as simple to appraise as just looking at the 'goals scored' column.

Last month I voted for Nigel Pearson as Manager of the Month for April after four vital victories on the trot took Leicester City out of the relegation zone and picked John Terry after his stellar displays for Chelsea, for example.

Pearson (right) led Leicester to four wins in April, bolstering their Premier League survival chances

Mourinho (right) has only won Manager of the Month three times in a little over five seasons at Chelsea

Mourinho's last award for Manager of the Month at the helm of Chelsea came in April 2007

I think this is why Mourinho has won so few Manager of the Month awards.

====== 2155 ========

TICKING OFF HIS BUCKET LIST IS AP MCCOY'S NEXT HURDLE...BUT IT WON'T INCLUDE A RINGSIDE SEAT TO MAYWEATHER VERSUS PACQUIAO

It was a simple slip of the tongue, instantly corrected minutes after his last ever ride at Sandown on Saturday.

After a tearful yet joyous and ultimately unsuccessful afternoon that none of the 18,000 spectators will forget, it was also the point at which AP McCoy acknowledged that he was an ex-jockey.

‘I am going to miss what I do . . . what I did,’ he said with a pained smile.

That whole new routine kicked in yesterday.

AP McCoy makes a lap of honour round the Parade ring with Champion Jockey's Trophy at Sandown

McCoy walks into Parade Ring to ride his final race on Box Office as the media assemble to get one last shot

A lie-in and cooked breakfast before a party for family and friends at his home near Lambourn.

This week there will be two days as a spectator for McCoy at the Punchestown Festival.

Then, when former colleagues head to Uttoxeter and Hexham on Saturday to make an early impression on the first AP-free jockeys’ title race in two decades, McCoy will be attending the wedding of one of wife Chanelle’s friends.

The family duties and the exorbitant cost of a ticket means McCoy will not be heading to Las Vegas to watch Mayweather and Pacquiao.

But there is a bucket list of things he wants to do now his life is no longer welded to the pursuit of riding perfection.

Seeing his beloved Arsenal in the FA Cup final as well as, next season, travelling to watch them in Europe.

McCoy with trainer Jonjo O'Neil after riding his final race on Box Office at Sandown racecourse on Saturday

Channel 4 presenter and tennis fan Emma Spencer

Riding some stages in the amateur Tour de France and attending the US Masters in Augusta.

He can aim to reduce his own golf handicap and there is also another sporting challenge to conquer.

McCoy, who doesn’t play tennis, has challenged Channel 4 presenter Emma Spencer, herself a tidy player, to a match with a tasty side bet riding on the outcome.

Coaches are being lined up for McCoy’s crash course. Watch out Emma. Come to think of it, watch out Andy Murray.

The list of diversions mean in the short term coping with life in Civvy Street should not be impossibly harrowing for the man who described Saturday as the ‘hardest day of my life’.

During his Punchestown trip McCoy will also visit Robbie and JT McNamara, both battling degrees of paralysis after bad falls. It will inject a dose of sobering reality into his situation.

McCoy said: ‘The fear of retirement is going to get worse in a month or a year. I think I will be all right in the first few weeks because I have things to do and I will be busy.

‘I will see Robbie McNamara on Tuesday and John Thomas on Wednesday. It will be nice to see the two lads and will put a lot of things into perspective.’

Sean Bowen won the conditional jockey title at Sandown on Saturday as is tipped for a bright future

There are media work offers to consider and a likely role with boss JP McManus. But McCoy will need something to satisfy his enormous work ethic.

Last week he did not accept rides because he wanted to begin weaning himself off racing.

But on Thursday night, trainer Paul Webber texted McCoy, saying he was short of a work rider for Friday morning, start time 7.45am.

The 20-time champion jockey was not late.

He also feels, painfully, that even his amazing records will be broken, perhaps even by the emerging Sean Bowen.

The 17-year-old winner of Saturday feature bet365 Gold Cup on Just A Par has lifted the champion conditional jockey crown earlier in his life than McCoy managed.

He has the same agent in Dave Roberts, who said: ‘What he is doing is freaky. We want to keep his feet on the ground but he has some talent.’

====== 2156 ========

STOKE ARE PLAYING BETTER FOOTBALL UNDER MARK HUGHES

style under Mark Hughes they have become ignored

Stoke, under the management of Tony Pulis, became the team everyone hated and everyone hated to play against.

But if there is something worse than being hated, it is being ignored and that is where we are with Mark Hughes’ Stoke side now.

While the physical nature of the team Pulis built brought incendiary headlines, critical comment and damning statistics – I was the captain of his team in the Championship from 2004-2007 – the progress made by Hughes has been overlooked.

Stoke stars Mame Diouf, Jon Walters and Steven Nzonzi celebrate during the Potters' 2-0 win over Everton in the Barclays Premier League on Wednesday which lifted them to eighth in the table

Stoke have collected 23 points from a possible 33 since Boxing Day. Only Liverpool and Arsenal have picked up more, so why isn’t there more attention to their achievements?

When Stoke beat Everton this week to rise to eighth place in the Barclays Premier League, the aftermath wasn’t about how well Stoke are doing but instead about the struggling Roberto Martinez and Everton.

Stoke are the team who are above Garry Monk’s Swansea – recently championed after their defeat of Manchester United – West Ham, Newcastle and the rest of the bottom ten.

Southampton have exceeded everyone’s expectations this season and receive weekly reviews as the nation’s romance story; neutrals want them to do well, to upset the normal order of the top four.

But what is it about Stoke City Football Club, who are as high as they can probably ever wish to be, that generates such little media attention or positive write ups?

Stoke, as a city, finds itself situated between the bigger and more glamorous cities of Manchester and Birmingham, but it has a lot to offer.

Stoke's Michael Duberry tracks Wigan striker Nathan Ellington during a Championship match at the Britannia Stadium in November 2004, which was the defender's first season at the club

Crystal Palace striker Andy Johnson tries to take evasive action as Duberry jumps across to make a tackle during Stoke's 3-1 home defeat by the Eagles in March 2006

Duberry stands all smiles at the Britannia Stadium during his time as a Stoke player. It was a period in the defender's career where he admits he felt wanted by the club in his three-year spell which ended in 2007

When I moved to Stoke from Leeds, the city didn’t have a Harvey Nichols or some of the swanky restaurants I left in Leeds, but it didn’t matter. The club gave me a home and a place. I felt wanted - I didn’t want anything else.

I moved near the training ground in nearby Newcastle Under Lyme and was very happy. I had Trentham Gardens, Hanley Shopping centre and Alton Towers was on my doorstep too.

Back when I was a Stoke player the club always seemed to have a power struggle going on upstairs. There was a lack of a clear vision as to who was in charge and the direction in which they wanted to take the club. Then Peter Coates took over in 2006 and the vision became clear.

A Stoke boy and self-made millionaire, Mr Coates has the club at heart and never hides that love. He has made some wise appointments to manage the football team.

Stoke were promoted to the Premier League under the management of Tony Pulis, with Duberry playing under the now West Brom boss while at the Potters in the Championship

Pulis arranges a training drill at Stoke's training ground in 2012. Duberry described the sessions as regimented and boring, but admits it made the team play better on match days

Since Mark Hughes has taken over, the club have only spent £10m in the transfer market, which is a tremendous job in the current climate of spending.

Stoke have become quite successful in finding players to fit the mold, with Hughes and his staff working with head of recruitment Mark Cartwright. They don’t overspend and yet they have created and established a Premier League team.

Finishing 12th,11th, 14th and 13th twice since coming into the Premier League, last season was their highest-ever. with a 9th place finish. But now they are one place higher and playing a more attractive passing style.

During my first spell under Tony Pulis, we were very direct, often going back to front in less than two passes. Training was regimented, often just walking through team shape and then doing set pieces. I didn’t like it and found it boring but it made us better on match days and I loved the feeling of a clean sheet.

Stoke attracted criticism for their direct style of play after being promoted to the Premier League in 2008, with teams forced into having to form defensive tactics against long Rory Delap throw ins

Mark Hughes gives advice to Stoke's Glenn Whelan during a league game against Liverpool, and Duberry claims the Potters have improved their style of play having spent little money under the Welshman

The next season under Johan Boskamp, everything was totally different. The Dutch manager had a pure footballing philosophy and every training session was 100 per cent football. I loved everything from the training, to the games and to the way he spoke football

When Pulis came back the following season, it reverted back to the old regime of pattern of play and set pieces in training. It was very frustrating

It’s a different club now with a different manager and a different footballing ethos.

You never see Mark Hughes in the technical area signaling to his players to pass from back to front, but instead he is gesturing to pass the ball and it looks as if the players are enjoying the experience.

I believe they deserve more credit and exposure.

====== 2157 ========

SUPER BOWL PUTS ON A STUNNING SHOW FOR THE FANS EVEN IF THEY DON'T LIKE THE GAME... IT ENGULFS AN ENTIRE CITY AND WE MUST TRY AND DO THIS BACK HOME FOR THE FA CUP FINAL

After picking the Denver Broncos to win last year, I'm going to toe the line this time but hope for a close game that goes all the way

We could try and make the FA Cup a bigger event and spectacle by following some of the examples of this Super Bowl week

There was an event this week where Calvin Harris was DJing and there were around 100,000 people there for a festival

The events staged as part of the Super Bowl build-up appeal to everybody, not just American football followers

SUPER BOWL XLIX New England Patriots vs Seattle Seahawks University of Phoenix Stadium Glendale, Arizona Sunday 1 February - 11.30pm GMT

The way that the NFL builds a city around an American football event is phenomenal. I was speaking to a couple of British journalists this week who were saying that this was the first time that they had been out to America for the Super Bowl. They just can’t believe how the whole city has become engulfed by the NFL and the Super Bowl.

The commercial investment that has been put into the game is huge. I know there are a lot of cultural differences and we are very different to the Americans in the way we see sport, but imagine if we could make a bigger spectacle out of the FA Cup final.

Even if it’s just getting players at a press conference or giving fans access to players to be able to see them in the build-up to the final, that’s a small step that I think would make a massive difference. Opening the game up to the fans and letting the fans have some access to maybe a practice or a meet and greet would make the event more personal.

The state of Arizona will host Super Bowl 49 between the New England Patriots and Seattle Seahawks

The University of Phoenix Stadium in Glendale is all quiet leading up to the blockbuster event

Recording artist Calvin Harris performs on stage during a festival organised just next to the stadium

Around 100,000 people attended the festival on Thursday as they enjoyed Super Bowl week

What I’ve witnessed this week is mind-blowing. In downtown Phoenix it is like a walking Hall of Fame. There are players from every generation of the game walking around just soaking up the atmosphere. It would make a huge difference to the FA Cup final if we started to consider how we could market it and make it a bigger event, not necessarily on this scale.

We went to an event on Thursday when Calvin Harris was DJing and they literally built V Festival next door to the stadium. There were around 100,000 people there - it was that big. Even though it was raining it had that festival atmosphere. It’s that kind of commercial investment that makes a massive difference.

They were all student-looking types at the festival, but it is all part of the Super Bowl and based around that. You might not be a football fan, but you’ll still enjoy the activities provided by these big corporate companies because they’re in town for the Super Bowl.

Katy Perry will perform during the half-time show on Sunday night at the University of Phoenix Stadium

The Californian singer brought her dog to a press conference this week as she addressed the media

Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Joe Montana (right) at an event in Phoenix on Thursday

Actor Nick Cannon (left) and rapper Nelly (right) perform at a Playboy Party during Super Bowl weekend

There are parties everywhere with all the big-names like Rihanna, Snoop Dogg and Jason Derulo. And obviously you can’t help but avoid all the chicken wings, the loaded potato skins and the pitchers of ale flying around.

If we could maybe bring the people of the Football Association and Premier League over and just show them what the Americans do, we might be able to start to do something like this at home.

SHUT DOWN THE OUTSIDE RUN

There are a lot of aspects to this game that are very similar to last year. Once again we have got the very young Russell Wilson, playing in his second Super Bowl on the bounce, going up against one of the grand masters of the game in Tom Brady, who is making his sixth Super Bowl appearance and won three already. I would argue that Brady is probably the best quarterback to play the game.

Everybody knows how good the Seattle Seahawks are on offense. The key for the Patriots defense is containing the read option (where the quarterback has the option of giving the ball to the running back or instead holding onto it and running around the outside). If the Patriots can shut down the outside run and read option then they have got a real chance of containing the Seahawks offense.

The Seattle Seahawks defense is without doubt one of the best defensive groups we have seen in recent times. The ‘Legion of Boom’ are the best group of defensive backs in the NFL. They are very talented, very quick and all quite tall. It is quite intimidating for wide receivers of the opposing team to see. The Seahawks defensive backs don’t show many different looks in their defensive formation, but they’re so quick and so fast in closing down opposing teams.

Tom Brady is preparing to play in his sixth Super Bowl having won three titles already

Brady and his Patriots team-mates practice in Tempe, Arizona in the lead up to Sunday's showdown

Russell Wilson will play in his second straight Super Bowl having been in the league for just three seasons

I think Brady will struggle because the Seahawks defensive line is very quick. Brady likes to sit in the pocket and is not very mobile. He will stand in the pocket for the longest time until he finds a receiver who is wide open. I think the Seattle Seahawks will focus on that and blitz a lot. They won’t necessarily put a spy on Tom Brady because he doesn’t run, but they’ll use the extra man to blitz.

Tight end Rob Gronkowski is going to be one of Brady’s key targets. Against the Colts, the Patriots mixed up the run and the pass. If they can establish the run game on Sunday it will help them when they try and pass, because the Seahawks defense will be leaning towards stopping the run.

Pete Carroll used to be head coach of the Patriots before Robert Kraft fired him and that’s when the Belichick era began, so Carroll might have a chip on his shoulder.

Patriots tight end Rob Gronkowski is fitter and healthier this season than he has been for a long time

Seattle Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman speaks out during media day in Phoenix

Pete Carroll (left) was sacked as Patriots head coach and replaced by Bill Belichick (right)

Wilson led the Seattle Seahawks to a crushing 43-8 victory over the Denver Broncos last year in New Jersey

People in town have been saying that if you give Patriots head coach Bill Belichick two weeks to prepare then he is going to come up schemes, plays and formations that the opposing team night not necessarily have seen on film.

After last year’s catastrophe of me calling the Denver Broncos to win - and we all know what happened there - I’m going to toe the line on this one. I think it’s going to be a close game and I hope it goes down to the fourth quarter.

MARSHAWN'S SILENCE

I have seen Marshawn Lynch’s press conferences and it is quite amusing to sit and watch him and listen to what he hasn’t got to say. We saw commissioner Roger Goodell’s press conference on Friday and he was asked about Lynch.

The commissioner is right in saying that we have all got jobs to do and there are some elements to our job that we don’t really like but we have to do them to fulfill the role and our positions.

But American football teams have 60 different players, so why keep putting up a guy who doesn’t say anything? We are not going to get anything from him, so put another running back in.

Marshawn Lynch has been at the centre of attention this week for what he hasn't said to the media

NFL commissioner Roger Goodell said that people have to do parts of their jobs they might not like

VERNON'S FAVOURITE SUPER BOWL MOMENTS

3. New York Giants 39-20 Denver Broncos - Super Bowl XXI, January 25, 1987

This was the year I really got into American football and I knew the rules and what to look out for. The sun setting over the iconic Rose Bowl in California made the whole event look beautiful.

I remember watching up to the end of the first quarter and had school the next morning. But my mum stayed up and recorded the game on VHS but paused the adverts, because if you didn’t pause the adverts you wouldn’t get the whole game on one tape.

That Super Bowl started a period of about 10 years where my mum or dad would pause the adverts to get it all on a VHS video. In that game we saw John Elway and Lawrence Taylor and two iconic teams. That’s one Super Bowl I remember for it’s visual beauty.

The iconic Rose Bowl in Pasadena, California on the day of Super Bowl XX in 1987

Head coach Bill Parcells is lifted into the air after the New York Giants beat the Denver Broncos

New York Giants running back Joe Morris scores a touchdown at the Rose Bowl in California

2. Pittsburgh Steelers 27-23 Arizona Cardinals - Super Bowl XLIII, February 1, 2009

This was the first Super Bowl I watched live and I was fortunate enough to be sat just over the end zone when Ben Roethlisberger threw the final touchdown to win the game for the Steelers. Little did I know that the wide receivers coach for the London Warriors, Marvin Allen, was on that squad and he won a Super Bowl ring in that game.

Santonio Holmes celebrates catching the game-winning touchdown for the Pittsburgh Steelers in 2009

1. Chicago Bears 46-10 New England Patriots - Super Bowl XX, January 26, 1986

This was the first American game that I ever saw. It was one of the best defenses that had ever played the game. I wasn’t aware at the time, but as I slowly taught myself about the history of the game, I realised that Bears defense was one of the best to play the game.

It was also the first time I saw Walter Payton run the football and they had William Perry aka 'The Fridge'. That was the season that made him a household name, even in Britain.

The Chicago Bears dominate the New England Patriots to win Super Bowl XX in New Orleans

Walter Payton runs the ball for the Chicago Bears (left) as William Perry aka 'The Fridge celebrates (right)

====== 2158 ========

SEBASTIEN BASSONG: IT WAS HARD FALLING OUT OF FAVOUR AT NORWICH BUT I'VE FOUND MY TOUCH AGAIN AT WATFORD... AND CAMEROON'S WORLD CUP WAS AN 'EMBARRASSMENT'

Sebastien Aymar Bassong Nguena is currently playing for Watford on loan from Norwich City. The defender was captain at Carrow Road but fell out of favour towards the end of last season and moved out on loan to Vicarage Road in October. A product of the famed French academy at Clairefontaine, Bassong has also played for Metz, Newcastle United, Tottenham and Wolves. The defender also has 15 caps for Cameroon. In his second appearance in the Footballers’ Football Column, he talks about last season at Norwich, Cameroon’s terrible World Cup and his hopes for the future.

Things can go up and down in football really quickly as I discovered at Norwich. Things change. If someone goes and someone else comes in [Chris Hughton was replaced by Neil Adams in April] with a different mindset your situation changes.

You can see the difference between the way it was and the way it is. But I've dealt with it. It’s now in the past and I don’t want to go in to the situation again. It is part of my career.

Bassong gets to grips with Pajtim Kasami of Fulham in an FA Cup tie with Norwich City last season

Bassong shadowing Manchester United striker Wayne Rooney during a Premier League match at Old Trafford

Bassong celebrates scoring for Norwich at Everton back in November 2012 with Anthony Pilkington

Of course it was disappointing to see Norwich relegated and I was sad not to play in the games near the end.

As regards the future, I don’t want to think about it. When the time comes, I will talk about it. I am just enjoying playing regularly, I am grateful for the chance and I want to be 1,000 per cent focused for Watford.

It's been so far, so good at Watford. I'm really happy here, especially after not playing for a while. I'm enjoying competing at the top of the Championship. We are an attacking side and when we are performing we are capable of scoring plenty of goals.

I don't know what will happen when my loan ends in January. I will talk to Norwich and I will talk to Watford. For the moment, I am just trying to focus and get my rhythm back.

Watford have a really ambitious owner who is trying to do good things. Step-by-step we are getting there. We all want to do well and I feel we are on the right path.

Bassong (left) in action for new club Watford against Nottingham Forest striker Britt Assombalonga

Watford are flying high in the Championship, one of a cluster of teams with promotion ambitions

It's always difficult when the club is changing managers, as happened at Watford earlier in the season, but as players you have to cope with it and the squad here has coped really well. All you can do is focus - you know what you have to do and that's win games.

It’s a bit awkward when you have four managers but this happens in football. It can be very short-term for managers these days.

The World Cup left every citizen of Cameroon disappointed about the results and the incidents that happened. It went against the Cameroon culture and you can’t defend what is indefensible. The Cameroonian people could not wait for it all to finish. It was an embarrassment.

If I am to get my place back in the national team, I do need a run of games. That didn’t happen for me before the World Cup and I didn’t get picked. But it is not a big deal. Cameroon and the national team is in my DNA and I am always available to them.

Cameroon's defence stands motionless as Croatia's Mario Mandzukic celebrates in their 4-0 World Cup win

Alex Song sees red in Cameroon's World Cup group match with Croatia in Manaus

Bassong in action for Cameroon against Denmark at the last World Cup in 2010

The Championship is a very competitive division. There are many, many teams who could go up. It is very physical and it is demanding because you are often playing Saturday then Tuesday then Saturday.

The pace and the level is different to the Premier League. I can understand why many players can struggle with the intensity. At Watford, we are trying to find that consistency week-in, week-out, get back to the top and open up a gap.

I did find it physically tough at first as I had to get my body used to playing every week again. With the games so close together, it is important to get enough rest but I like the fact that the busy schedule allows the players to bond.

Slavisa Jokanovic came here with a winning mindset, a mindset that suits the club and that is shared by the players too. We play from the back and like to play good football. He’s not against me going forward either!

Slavisa Jokanovic has enjoyed a fairly successful start to his tenure as Watford manager

Mauricio Pochettino has found the going tough at Bassong's old club Tottenham this season

Bassong closes out Liverpool's Raheem Sterling during his Tottenham days

It can only improve at Tottenham – they have a great squad and manager. It is 50-50 when someone new comes in and Mauricio Pochettino had an alright start. But things can very quickly change and not go so well. But they’ll get back up there.

Chelsea look really, really strong in every area from the goalkeeper to the strikers. They have experience, strength, style and quality. They will be confident they can go the entire season unbeaten but the magic of the Premier League is that there is a long way to go and anything can happen yet.

Which defenders do I admire? Raphael Varane at Real Madrid is very, very talented and still so young. I also really like watching Thiago Silva at Paris Saint-Germain.

Bassong is a big admirer of the Real Madrid and France defender Raphael Varane

Thiago Silva, of Brazil and Paris Saint-Germain, has also impressed Bassong

Bassong's former Tottenham team-mate Gareth Bale has enjoyed an excellent start to life at Real Madrid

Gareth Bale has had an outstanding impact at Real Madrid. Wow. He is a part of Real now despite the pressure of his transfer fee. For me, his first season was amazing. Few leave the country at all but he did and he is learning Spanish and on the pitch he is just flying. He is doing his part, scores great goals and has had a special impact.

There were loads of rumours about the threat of Ebola at the Africa Cup of Nations but it is good that the tournament had now been moved to a safe place for the players and the fans. The likes of Nigeria will always be the favourites but sometimes you can get a surprise – look at Zambia when they won in 2012. I hope that Cameroon can do well, they will go there and try to win it.

After the difficulties of the last six months, I just want to stay healthy and play week-in, week-out. If I can stay injury free, I believe I’ll do well and my team will do well. My future is a little bit cloudy and I may have to go back to Norwich. But it’s not in my hands, let’s wait and see. Stay at Watford? Why not. I am enjoying my football here and why would I want to leave when I’m having fun?

====== 2159 ========

GEORGE NORTH: I CAN'T WAIT TO FACE THE NEW ZEALAND HAKA... IF PLAYERS CAN'T HANDLE IT, THEY'RE IN THE WRONG SPORT

100 NOT OUT! CLICK HERE to see why Richie McCaw will make history for New Zealand at the Millennium Stadium

Going up against the All Blacks is always an exciting challenge — especially when you face guys like Julian Savea. He is a fantastic winger and some people have said he is even better than Jonah Lomu . . . but Jonah will always be the man in my opinion!

Savea is an exceptional athlete who gets himself in the right place at the right time. He takes his chances very well and pops up where people don’t want to see him. His scoring record speaks for itself but it’s unfair to compare him to Lomu, because who knows how good Lomu could have been with all the facilities we have in the modern game?

The New Zealand squad is oozing quality and Savea is just one example. Sonny Bill Williams is a player I love to watch and he’s shown his quality by switching straight back from rugby league to international rugby union.

George North cannot wait to face New Zealand at the Millennium Stadium on Saturday

North (third right) and team-mates react after a poor performance against Fiji in their previous Autumn Test

Then there’s Richie McCaw, the face of the All Blacks. He will captain the side for the 100th time on Saturday and that sums up the man … most players don’t get up to 100 Tests, let alone as skipper.

They do have an aura about them because they are the world’s best team. It’s the same with any sports team who are at the top of their game. We just have to go in with confidence and belief in our own abilities, which is something we all have. Over the past few games they have shown they’re human and they do make mistakes. I guess what sets them apart is that even when they’re on the back foot, they still manage to grind out the results. Hopefully we can push them over the edge.

On a personal note, I can’t wait to face the haka again. Some people say it gives New Zealand an unfair advantage and should be banned, but it’s a tradition of the game and I think it should carry on.

It’s supposed to be intimidating, but if you can’t handle it then you’re probably not going to be able to manage a game of international rugby either.

I first faced it in 2010 — it was quite daunting as an 18-year-old lad but it’s just part of the game.

Julian Savea has been compared to New Zealand rugby legend Jonah Lomu

Richie McCaw will make history by captaining the All Blacks for a 100th Test on Saturday

Wales coach Warren Gatland (right) leads a training session after the 'disappointment' of the Fiji win

Fiji had their own war dance last weekend, but the less said about that game the better. It was a tough day for everyone involved and we know we didn’t perform well. Warren Gatland was like a disappointed dad in the changing room afterwards. It was one of those ‘I’m not angry… I’m disappointed,’ moments. Our basic skills weren’t there and we got turned over 22 times. That’s not acceptable in international rugby; it was schoolboy level and we let ourselves down. Now we pick ourselves up and get ready to raise our game against the All Blacks.

We had a funny quiz on Monday night that was organised by Gethin Jenkins.

It was a chance to get all the boys together and have a laugh. I was put in a team with Rhys Webb, James Hook and Dan Biggar. On paper we should have won it but we only managed fourth place. The team captained by Bradley Davies took the trophy in the end . . . I’m not quite sure how that happened!

Jamie Roberts and Nemani Nadolo, the huge Fijian centre, swapped shirts after the game on Saturday.

Jamie likes to think he’s the big man but Nadolo beat him there . . . he was massive! It’s safe to say Nadolo’s shirt might be a bit baggy on the Doc!

North is a massive fan of New Zealand's war dance the haka, performed here against Scotland

Jamie Roberts (right) met his match when he swapped shirts with Fiji's Nemani Nadola (left)

We’ve been following the progress of the Wales football team in camp.

They’re doing really well at the moment — drawing 0-0 with Belgium on Sunday — and that’s good to see. I’m not the biggest football lover but if I had to pick a team then it would probably be Liverpool. Justin Tipuric and Dan Biggar are the biggest fans in the squad and I’m sure they would love it if Gareth Bale came to visit one day.

Some of the lads have got together to create a cookbook for charity.

Sam Warburton tried making ‘James Hook’s Thai Green Curry’ the other day and the feedback was pretty good. I’m not much of a cook myself but my special recipe is carrot cake. We get most of our food provided for us but Liam Williams thinks he is a bit of a Jamie Oliver . . . really he’s more of a Happy Meal job!

====== 2160 ========

NICO ROSBERG COLUMN: I NEED SOME HELP FROM LEWIS HAMILTON IN ABU DHABI TO WIN THE F1 TITLE

I want to thank the fans for their support this season, it's been incredible

So hopefully he will help me out... I am going to push him as hard as I can

Hamilton spun in Brazil and has been making some mistakes recently

exciting moment for me... it is what I have been working towards

So, here we are in Abu Dhabi for the final round of this season’s championship and it is an extremely exciting moment for my career.

I am fighting for the Formula One World Championship at the last race, I have a good chance to win, and this is what I have been working towards for all of the years since I began my racing life as a small child.

Fortunately, it doesn’t feel as though it is the ultimate moment of my lifetime so far, which is good. Instead it feels like just another race. Of course, it will be very intense but I have a fantastic opportunity to win and I am raring to go.

VIDEO Scroll down to watch Nico Rosberg preview the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix

I arrive at the final round of the Formula One championship battling Lewis Hamilton for this year's title

My team-mate Lewis Hamilton leads the championship, but he has been making some mistakes recently

Nico Rosberg is pictured offering his hand to Mercedes team-mate Lewis Hamilton in the press conference

DRIVERS' STANDINGS 1. Lewis Hamilton - 334 points 2. Nico Rosberg - 317 points Lewis Hamilton will be crowned world champion if he finishes second in the season-ending Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, even if Nico Rosberg wins the race. If the final race was a ‘normal’ race with 25 points for the winner, rather than the double points on offer, Hamilton would be able to claim his second drivers’ title with a sixth-place finish.

In terms of preparing for this deciding race, I have done all I possibly can.

I went to the Mercedes factory last Friday and practised driving the Yas Marina Circuit on the simulator. I also debriefed with my engineers to learn as much as I could from the last race in Brazil.

Qualifying has obviously been a strong suit for me this year but I have had to work on my racing, and I was delighted that in Interlagos I took a huge step forward.

I dominated the entire weekend. I was fastest in every practice session, secured pole and then won the race ahead of my team-mate Lewis Hamilton which leaves me 17 points behind him in the race for the championship. I know that I must carry that form through to this weekend's race in Abu Dhabi.

It goes without saying that I need some help from Lewis to clinch the title, and I am going to try and put as much pressure on him as I can.

He has been making some mistakes recently, he spun in Brazil for instance, so maybe there is a chance that he will help me out and that is what I am looking for. I am going to try to push him as hard as I can to get him to make a mistake.

It was a massive challenge for me to have Lewis stuck to my gearbox for the entire race in Brazil.

I couldn’t afford to make a single error so I tried to control the pace of the race, not go to my absolute limit to avoid mistakes, but at the same time I needed to be quick enough so he could not overtake.

I really found that balance in Interlagos and I was extremely happy about that because I didn’t manage to do it at the previous race in Austin.

But now we are in Abu Dhabi and I am looking forward to the weekend.

My wife Vivian is here to support me which is great and I have some friends coming along, too so it is going to be very nice to have all their backing.

I had team-mate Lewis Hamilton on my gearbox throughout the race in Brazil but held him off to secure a win

It was great to be back on the top step of the podium last time out at the Brazilian Grand Prix

What has been very special is the amount of support I have received via text messages and on social media. The support has been so huge which I am using as a motivational tool.

It comes from everywhere around the world, including England, and it is fantastic and it makes me very, very happy so I want to thank everyone for that.

I would also like to pay tribute to my team. For the whole year they have allowed Lewis and I to fight it out which is great and probably not necessarily what everyone expected.

We have both enjoyed a proper battle on the track and hopefully created some memorable moments for the fans – that is what is important for our sport.

As a team we have been so dominant this season so it has been important for both Lewis and I to do the business on track and up until now it has worked out really well. Let’s hope we have a good final race.

Here I am on the red carpet with my wife Vivian, and later on in the evening after receiving my Bambi award

In my opinion Lang Lang (centre) is one of the world's best pianists. He loves his motor racing, too

Miroslav Klose is a legend for Germany and it was a privilege to meet him at the awards ceremony

Earlier this week, I received a German Oscar, also known as a Bambi award, for the best athlete and for my sporting achievements in Germany this year. It was a really proud moment.

I took to the stage just after the national team who won the World Cup earlier this year and it was an awesome feeling. I met Miroslav Klose and Bastian Schweinsteiger, who are both a great inspiration for me.

U2 were there and the best pianist in the world Lang Lang, too, both with great performances. They were incredibly passionate and Lang is really in to his motor racing.

After so many years of performing at the highest level they were still incredibly in to what they do and I am able to take and learn a lot from that.

Finally, I would like to thank MailOnline for allowing me to write a column this year and also a special thanks to all the readers who have been with us throughout the season. I hope you’ve had as much fun reading it as I have writing it.

I also hope that the money we have been able to donate to the Grand Prix Mechanics’ Trust will help the families of those people who have made such a great contribution to our sport over so many years.

VIDEO Hamilton previews F1 season finale

Nico Rosberg's fee for his column will be donated to the Grand Prix Mechanics' Charitable Trust, which is dedicated to providing help to former and current Formula One mechanics and their families, putting F1 mechanics throughout the world in touch with each other and raising funds to help in times of need.

====== 2161 ========

KEVIN PIETERSEN'S BOOK ROCKED CRICKET BUT DIG A LITTLE DEEPER AND YOU'LL FIND THE REAL STORY BEHIND THE HYPOCRITE

Kevin Pietersen's autobiography has seemed to be an endless stream of sad score-settling.

But while the former England batsman’s claims of a bullying culture are certainly worthy of investigation, it’s KP’s mass of contradictions that leap off the page.

Here’s the best (or worst) of them…

England's James Anderson (left) reacts with team-mates Kevin Pietersen (centre) and Graeme Swann after he takes a wicket against India during a Test at Lord's in 2011

Skating on thing ice

After the removal of Peter Moores and Pietersen’s demotion from the captaincy, England travelled to the West Indies in early 2009. Pietersen relates that he ‘gave it my best’ upon being back in the ranks. ‘I had come to the Caribbean and gone out of my way to make things as smooth as possible for Straussy,’ he insists.

Yet within a week of arriving, he was agitating to be allowed home between the third and fourth Tests. The reason: his wife Jessica had chosen to appear in the Dancing On Ice television programme rather than joining other families on tour. Strauss and Flower understandably declined his request.

Pietersen in talks with England coach Peter Moores during his first stint in charge in 2008

Pietersen with his wife Jessica Taylor on the red carpet at the Pride of Britain awards on Sunday night

Who bullies a bully?

One of Pietersen’s central claims is that a culture of bullying existed in the England dressing room, particularly among the clique of Matt Prior, James Anderson, Stuart Broad and Graeme Swann.

Yet in his book Pietersen is relentless in his contemptuous attitude towards Prior, assassinating his character and constantly ridiculing him with references to his moniker of ‘Cheese’ or ‘Big Cheese’, having a go at everything from his on-field attitude to his cycling obsession.

The scale of abuse he directs at Prior appears to be of a persecuting nature itself.

How about Pietersen sitting with his mouthpiece Piers Morgan at Lord’s this summer while the broadcaster tweeted about Alastair Cook: ‘We’re watching you captain weasel.’ Is that not bullying?

What about Pietersen’s criticism of batsman James Taylor on his debut at Headingley? He did this both to Andy Flower and his team-mates. He also criticised Michael Carberry, a supposed friend, in Sydney as England plunged to a 5-0 defeat. He asked Jonny Bairstow, in front of the team: ‘Is there not anybody better than this bloke in county cricket?’

Pietersen and Matt Prior celebrate winning the Ashes down under in January 2011

Pietersen (right) in the stands at Lord's earlier this year with his friend Piers Morgan (centre)

Petals flowered

The other main target of vitriol is coach Andy Flower, for whom KP makes no secret of his contempt. He also outlines how he was in two minds about his one-day career and wanted to give it up to achieve a better work-life balance and make his career more manageable.

Yet in 2011, at the height of all this discussion, he sent an over-friendly email to Flower opening with the line ‘Howsit Petals?’ — the nickname Flower used to have in Zimbabwe, one only really used by southern Africans.

In the nauseating email he declared an ambition to be one-day captain but only if Flower stayed on as coach so that they could work together — in contrast to his claim in the book that the pair had not get on ‘ever since 2009’.

Pietersen also calls Flower’s coaching into question. He writes: ‘I know you are a dreadful coach not by how you won but by how you lost. Your methods created an environment where people became terrified of failing.’

Yet the facts do not support the idea that Flower was a bad coach, however poor that last tour of Australia. He took England to No 1 in the world in three forms of the game, winning three Ashes series, one of them away, and achieved an away series win in India, admittedly with Pietersen playing his part.

Pietersen with former England coach Andy Flower in the nets at Melbourne in December last year

You’d Swann off, too

This week, at one of his public appearances, Pietersen attacked Graeme Swann for quitting the disastrous Ashes tour last winter (but did not do so in his book). According to the batsman ‘a lot of the players felt aggrieved by him jumping ship in the middle of the series. He let the team down. If it was his elbow, fine, but he could have held on for another couple of weeks’.

Yet the document about Pietersen’s behaviour compiled by the ECB, which was leaked this week, suggests that he told a member of the medical staff that if the third Test was lost he would use his knee condition as an excuse to go home. Pietersen denies this, although in 2011 he left the World Cup with a hernia problem that tour staff felt was manageable.

Soon after returning to London he was spotted in a nightclub.

Pietersen and Swann celebrate at the end of the fourth test against Australia in Melbourne in December 2010

Tempted by IPl riches

Pietersen has repeatedly said that he did not wish to prioritise the lucrative Indian Premier League at the expense of his England career, while espousing the IPL’s virtues in his cricket development. He has always said that England was his main concern.

Yet he asked to fly to India to play in the IPL semi-finals right in the middle of back-to-back Tests against the West Indies at Lord’s and Trent Bridge in 2012.

Dressing room tales

In a press conference at the start of the Ashes tour last summer, KP declared that the England camp was a place full of harmony, a united place. ‘We’re all having so much fun. I think we’ll stay friends after cricket,’ he said. ‘We’ve all grown up and the environment now is absolutely fantastic — I’m not lying, I’m being dead straight.’

Yet in the book he says quite the opposite: ‘The dressing room had been awful for years. There were wins and star players, but the dressing room was sick all along.’

First-class puzzle

Pietersen still maintains that it is his wish to play international cricket again and that he hopes certain changes of personnel at the top might help him. ‘If I was offered the opportunity to play Test cricket again for England I would jump at the chance. I dream of playing for England again,’ he says in the book.

Yet this summer, when he was contracted to Surrey, he failed to play a single day’s first-class cricket for the county, apparently disappointing his old mentor Graeme Ford. It was a strange way to push the case that he fervently wanted to play Test cricket again.

Kevin Pietersen always claimed that England were his main concern rather than the riches of the IPL

Pietersen celebrates with captain Alastair Cook during their Ashes win over Australia last summer

But their relationship turned sour after Pietersen was sacked from the England team last winter

Tweet and sour

KP made much of how the spoof Twitter account @KPGenius upset him and how it led to him breaking down in tears in front of Flower, of all people.

Yet Pietersen received requests to stop Piers Morgan tweeting abuse about players, in particular Alastair Cook, to Morgan’s huge audience. When these approaches were made he told his colleagues that they needed a thicker skin.

Memory failure

In his book Pietersen insists that he cannot remember the wording of the texts he sent about Andrew Strauss in the episode known as ‘Textgate’.

He says he sent them to a friend in the South African team and they were just part of ongoing banter with an old mate. Yet he details conversations that were had with others stretching back several years, including quotes in conversations.

Pietersen shares a joke with former England captain Andrew Strauss during the India series in 2011

A negative image

At the end of his autobiography Pietersen asks: ‘Am I bitter?’ and answers: ‘No, and no again’, insisting (correctly) that he has much to be proud of.

Yet his account of his latter years with England focuses heavily on spats with fellow players and is full of justification for his arguments, giving it an almost joyless tone despite it covering a period when England — and he himself — enjoyed plenty of success.

Sadly, he dwells on the negative aspects of what happened towards the end of his international career and almost skims over many of his fine achievements.

====== 2162 ========

STEVEN GERRARD: WAYNE ROONEY'S PASSION AND TALENT MAKE HIM PERFECT TO LEAD ENGLAND

I’ll never forget the day Roy Hodgson made me jump 10 feet off my couch. It was a midweek afternoon and I was at home, winding down after training, when Roy called to tell me he had important news: I was going to be his England captain.

It was an unbelievable feeling, a real ‘punch the air’ moment, and I’m pretty sure Wayne Rooney will get to experience the same emotions this week when my successor is revealed. As far as I am concerned, there is no more worthy candidate to take over.

Roy has tremendous faith in Wayne. When the Manchester United striker was under pressure in the summer, when there was increased speculation about his place in the England team, his manager stuck by him and played him in the games that mattered. It was a big show of respect.

On target: England forward Wayne Rooney celebrates after scoring against Uruguay at the 2014 World Cup

Chilling out: Rooney (left) and Steven Gerrard relax during an England training session in the Algarve in May

Captain: Rooney (right) leads out Manchester United for the pre-season friendly against Valencia on August 12

Red devil: Rooney celebrates scoring for Manchester United against Swansea in their Premier League opener

Perhaps other managers would have taken him out of the firing line and put him on the bench when the scrutiny increased, but Roy knows what Wayne brings to England’s team and, just as crucially, what he will continue to contribute in the next few years.

So why do I think Wayne is the No 1 choice? For starters, he is a natural leader. Aside from being a top player, one who commands respect within the group, Wayne is passionate about representing his country and won’t be fazed by the responsibility.

Before a game, he is one of the most vocal players in the dressing room. He wouldn’t be afraid of speaking up and talking to someone one-to-one, telling them what is expected.

When he was my deputy, he gave me great support and during our 11 years with England I saw him blossom. There were times when, as a young lad, he didn’t always say the right things in the dressing room but he has matured and chooses his words carefully.

Teammates: Gerrard (left) is congratulated by Rooney after scoring against Poland at Wembley last year

Called it a day: Gerrard retired from international football in July after winning 114 caps for England

He’s brave, too. Wayne won’t go missing in a game nor will he duck any issues with the media; whether he is in world-class form or going through a difficult patch, he doesn’t shy away from questions.

Don’t think, though, he will expose players in public if things aren’t going well. That wasn’t my style, nor will it be his. He knows the best place to deliver such words is in closed quarters and those he will have to speak to will appreciate him doing it the right way.

I also believe it is important for an England captain to lead his club. Everything that compelled Louis van Gaal to make Wayne United captain after working with him for six weeks are the qualities that Roy has seen at every get-together for the past two years.

My England journey with Wayne started in March 2003. I’d known of him since he was playing for Everton’s Under-13 side with my cousin, Anthony. I was well aware of the hype surrounding him when he broke into Everton’s first team.

Younger days: Gerrard (right) congratulates Rooney on scoring for England against Liechtenstein in 2003

The heat is turned up, however, when you get selected for England and I remember thinking, when we joined up for that European Championship qualifier away to Liechtenstein, ‘let’s have a proper look at what you’ve got’ before training with him for the first time. I missed his debut against Australia the previous month as I was injured.

It quickly became apparent this was his stage. During a training game he conjured a chip from nothing that sailed over David James; it was an audacious thing to attempt but Wayne — then only 17 — carried on as if it was the most natural thing to do.

AS the ball nestled in the net, the session stopped so everyone could applaud. It wasn’t a bad way to settle yourself into the group.

Taking the armband won’t be new for Wayne — he’s led England before, against Brazil in Qatar in 2009 and San Marino in October 2012 — but it is a different feeling from when you are just borrowing it.

Wearing the armband: Rooney (right) is put under pressure by San Marino's Christian Brolli in October 2012

United: Rooney (3rd left) captained England for the international friendly against Brazil in Doha in 2009

I couldn’t wait to walk into the dressing room after Roy gave me the news, and it will be the same for Wayne. He will be desperate to get to Wembley for the Norway friendly and the added responsibility could be the catalyst to go on and break Sir Bobby Charlton’s record of 49 goals.

Everything is there for him now. He is set to be captain and the next two tournaments, in France and Russia, are the most important he’ll play in — they can define his legacy.

We played together 71 times for England and at his best, he is a world-class talent. After the disappointment of Brazil, this is a fresh start for everyone and Wayne can lead the team positively into the new campaign.

Tearful goodbye: Gerrard (centre) was emotional after his last match for England at the World Cup in Brazil

If and when he leads the team out on September 3, I’ll be delighted for him. We are two lads from council estates in Liverpool who have loved playing for England, and I know what emotions Wayne will feel when he stands at the head of the line in the tunnel.

====== 2163 ========

EVERTON STRIKER CHRIS LONG COULD FORCE WAY INTO ROBERTO MARTINEZ'S PLANS

Roberto Martinez has been left scratching his head by Everton's pre-season form but one shining ray of light has been the emergence of 19-year-old striker Chris Long.

Everton's manager is not afraid to give youth its chance and, in Long, he feels there is a young man who could become the latest distinguished graduate from the club's thriving Academy.

Sportsmail's Dominic King discusses the youngster's upbringing and assesses his chances of making a first team impact next season.

VIDEO Scroll down for Chris Long and Everton youth teammates in changing room banter

Faith: Everton manager Roberto Martinez is not afraid to give the club's young players a chance to shine

So he's made significant strides this summer?

Yes. That was abundantly clear on Sunday in Germany against Bundesliga side Paderborn, when he scored Everton's only goal in a 3-1 defeat. It was a thumping effort, too. After collecting a pass from Leighton Baines, he dragged the ball away from his marker before crashing a curling, right-footed drive that sped into the net. It was a strike reminiscent of some from Everton's first team coach, Duncan Ferguson.

Does he have a chance of starting the season then?

Well, Martinez was certainly enthusiastic about how he has coped with being in the first team environment and believes he is 'pushing' to be included. Given that there are fitness issues concerning Romelu Lukaku, Kevin Mirallas and Arouna Kone, there is every reason to think that he could feature in the party that travels to the King Power Stadium on Saturday.

Back of the net: Chris Long opens the scoring for Everton against Paderborn in a pre-season friendly

Instant impact: Long runs to celebrate his goal with veteran midfielder Gareth Barry

How long has he been at Everton?

All his life. He first set foot in the club's Academy 14 years ago when he was just 5. He has stood out in recent years thanks to his speed, composure and agility. He has represented Everton at all age-groups, signed his first professional contract in July 2013 and has played for England at U-16, U-17, U-18 and U-20 level. He also had a brief loan spell at MK Dons last season, scoring once in four appearances.

Everton pride themselves on producing good, young players, don't they?

With good reason. Long – who bases his game on former England striker Michael Owen – is not much younger than Ross Barkley and John Stones and he went to the Under-20 World Cup, which was staged in Turkey last summer, with those two. If he makes the anticipated progress, he one day could be tied down to a long-term contract and be part of the future Martinez is building for the club.

Homegrown: Long joined Everton's academy at the age of five and has represented England at Under 20 level

In the frame: Long could make Everton's squad for their opening Premier League game against Leicester City

What has he made of the big change?

====== 2164 ========

CHELSEA BOSS JOSE MOURINHO SAYS HE'S FINISHED HIS SUMMER TRANSFER SPENDING

Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho says he's finished his summer transfer spending as he vows to let youngsters have their chance

Mourinho promises to bring through the young guns this season

Insists he plans to bring up to five U-21 players into the side

Chelsea youngsters Jeremie Boga, Patrick Bamford and Izzy Brown have impressed in pre-season

Jose Mourinho insists Chelsea have finished their summer spending has promised to bring through Chelsea's young guns this season.

The Blues have splashed out on Cesc Fabregas, Diego Costa and Filipe Luis, and infamously haven't produced an academy player since long-serving captain John Terry.

But boss Mourinho insists those will be the only additions to the squad that reached the Champions League semi-final last season.

VIDEO Scroll down to watch Jeremie Boga score stunning solo strike



Giving youth a chance: Jose Mourinho will give his U-21 stars a chance to shine

FIVE TO WATCH

1. Jeremie Boga 2. Izzy Brown 3. Patrick Bamford 4. Marco Van Ginkel 5. Kurt Zouma Read more about the youngsters here.

Asked if there would be more new faces at Stamford Bridge, Mourinho told Sport magazine: 'I don't think so.

'The market is open but we are happy with what we have. 'We feel that our squad is what we want. 'We don't want a squad of only end-products, we also want to bring to the first team three, four or five under-21s and develop players, so we are happy with the balance that we have.' The Chelsea youngsters have been out to impress in the west Londoners' pre-season friendlies so far. Jeremie Boga rescued the Blues a draw in their first tour match against Austrian side RZ Pellets, while Patrick Bamford and Izzy Brown were both on target at Wycombe. The breakout star of Chelsea's pre-season: Attacking midfielder Jeremie Boga

Time to impress: Patrick Bamford lit up the lower leagues last season while on loan but now hopes he can show Mourinho what he is capable of

Great technique: Izzy Brown impressed in the Blues youth academy last season

====== 2165 ========

PETE JENSON FOR THE DAILY MAIL

The star of the 2014 World Cup, James Rodriguez, will sign for Real Madrid this Wednesday for £60million in a transfer that will push several players towards the Premier League. Rodriguez was in Spain on Sunday on his way back from Colombia to Monaco where he will say his goodbye to the club this week before returning to the Spanish capital to sign a new six-year deal. ...read

====== 2166 ========

JAMES RODRIGUEZ TO SIGN FOR REAL MADRID ON WEDNESDAY FOR £60M

James Rodriguez to sign for Real Madrid in £60m deal with World Cup Golden Boot winner's arrival sparking Premier League rush for La Liga giant's stars



Colombia star to sign for Real from Monaco for £60m on Wedne sday

World Cup Golden Boot winner is due to sign a six-year deal



The large financial outlay means Real will look to offload some big names

Angel Di Maria and Sami Khedira could be set for Premier League moves



Isco could be a target for Manchester City and Liverpool



Real Madrid have spent more than £80m in the summer



The star of the World Cup, James Rodriguez, will sign for Real Madrid this Wednesday for £60million in a transfer that will push several players towards the Premier League.

Rodriguez was in Spain on Sunday on his way back from Colombia to Monaco, where he will say his goodbye to the club this week before returning to the Spanish capital to sign a new six-year deal.

Real Madrid president Florentino Perez has been away on business in South America but returns this week to ensure that once again the European champions' summer spending goes beyond the £80m mark – adding Rodriguez’s name to the £20m capture of Bayern Munich’s Toni Kroos last week.

VIDEO Scroll down to watch Real Madrid target James Rodriguez dancing in a nightclub



Deal me in: Colombia World Cup ace James Rodriguez is set to sign for Real Madrid on Wednesday

Golden boy: Rodriguez is due to sign a six-year contract with the La Liga giants this week Keep it up: Real will be hoping the 21-year-old attacking midfielder can replicate his World Cup form Big move: Rodriguez was in Spain on Sunday on his way back from Colombia to Monaco VIDEO Real closing in on Rodriguez

But just as last season the £86m arrival of Gareth Bale meant Real Madrid sold Mesut Ozil to Arsenal to help pay for the signing, so this summer's big deals will see the departure of at least one and possibly as many as three Real players.

Manchester United target Angel Di Maria is candidate No 1 to move on despite Carlo Ancelotti’s insistence that the Argentine should be kept at the club.

The bank-breaking purchase of Rodriguez will also speed up Real’s desire to move on Sami Khedira – possibly bringing down the £20m asking price for the former Stuttgart midfielder, who only has one year left on his contract and is wanted by Arsenal.

And the Rodriguez move could even provoke a bid from Manchester City or Liverpool for former Malaga midfielder Isco, whose path to regular first team football has now been blocked.

Star man: Rodriguez scored six goals to win the World Cup's Golden Boot

Big news: This is how Spain's major sports publications covered Rodriguez's imminent signing

Target: World Cup winner Sami Khedira could move on as Real look to recoup £80m in summer spending On the move? Manchester United target Angel Di Maria is the top candidate to move on Working hard: Real Madrid boss Carlo Ancelotti (front centre) leads a pre-season training session Reeling them in: Ancelotti (left) speaks with Toni Kroos ahead of his unveiling as a Real player last week

The Colombia midfielder top scored at the World Cup and in emotional declarations after the team’s exit from the tournament against Brazil, he said he preferred to play for Madrid than Barcelona.

REAL MADRID (PROBABLE)

(4-1-3-2): Lopez; Carvajal, Pepe, Ramos, Marcelo; Xabi Alonso; Modric, Rodriguez, Kroos; Bale, Ronaldo



His agent Jorge Mendes, who also manages out-going Di Maria, still has an excellent relationship with Real, and the wheels were immediately set in motion to bring the attacking midfielder to Spain.

Real are due on British soil on August 12 to play the European Super Cup against Sevilla at the Cardiff City Stadium.

It now looks as if, alongside homecoming hero Gareth Bale, they will have two of the sensations of the World Cup in their ranks.



====== 2167 ========

GUS POYET CONFIDENT OF SIGNING FABIO BORINI FOR £14M FROM LIVERPOOL

Gus Poyet confident of signing Fabio Borini for £14million, with Sunderland boss willing to fly Liverpool forward back from America



Fabio Borini travels to United States with Liverpool amid transfer saga



Sunderland manager Gus Poyet is willing to fly Borini back from America to join up with Black Cats training camp in Portugal

Borini wants to keep options open in case Champions League club from abroad match agreed £14milion fee



23-year-old scored 10 goals on loan at Sunderland last season



Poyet confirms 'we have agreed terms with Liverpool' to make deal



Sunderland manager Gus Poyet is still confident he will land Fabio Borini in a £14million deal, despite the striker boarding the flight to Liverpool's tour to the States.

The two clubs have agreed the fee for the Italian forward.

And Poyet is still planning to speak to Borini and his representatives on Monday.

VIDEO Scroll down to watch Fabio Borini's fiancee show off her private holiday villa



On a trip: Fabio Borini leaves the coach at the John Lennon Airport amid his transfer speculation

Happy, Fabio? Borini makes his way off the coach with his Liverpool team-mates before the injury

Done deal? Sunderland have agreed to pay £14million for the striker who impressed on loan last season VIDEO Borini off to Sunderland as Liverpool eye Remy

FABIO BORINI FACT FILE

BORN: Italy, March 29 1991 (age 23) 2009-2011: Chelsea (4 apps, 0 gls) 2011-2011: Swansea (loan) (9, 6) 2011-2012: Parma (0, 0) 2011-2012: Roma (loan) (24, 9) 2012-NOW: Liverpool (13, 1) 2013-2014: Sunderland (loan) (32, 7) 2012-NOW: Italy (1, 0)

But doubts now surround the deal after Borini was pictured with the Liverpool squad leaving Merseyside on Sunday.



However, Poyet is 'relaxed' about the apparent setback and optimistic he can persuade the 23-year-old to return to Sunderland where he spent last season on loan.

The Sunderland manager will still speak with Borini's agents and is prepared to fly him back from America to join up with Sunderland's training camp in Portugal this weekend.

While still keen to speak to Poyet, Borini is not in a rush to sign for Sunderland and is understood to have told Rodgers he would rather wait and keep his options open.



He hopes a Champions League club from abroad will match Poyet's bid after being told he has no future at Anfield.

Poyet said: 'What I can inform you is that we have agreed terms with Liverpool.

'It’s an ongoing thing. We’ve done the steps that we needed to do properly, but the next step is that we are still waiting for the correspondence. Then we will go on from there, doing everything official, in the right way.

'I think Fabio’s impact is clear, as is the reason why we want to spend that quantity of money. We know how much he can give us because we know him perfectly. It would be perfect for us.

Struggled: The Italian has never been able to establish himself as a Liverpool player since joining in 2012

'I’m really calm regarding Fabio and Marcos because as everyone knows, it’s not about numbers or quantity, it’s more about the quality of your signings. I’m delighted with what we’ve done so far.'

Sweden international Seb Larsson has welcomed the potential addition of Borini who became a cult hero on Wearside last season after notching two goals against rivals Newcastle.

The veteran midfielder, who signed a new deal in the summer despite interest from Italy, Turkey and Sweden, says the 23-year-old former Chelsea and Parma striker will be welcomed back to the North East by players and fans.

Larsson said: 'It would be a really big deal for the club. Fabio was here last year and did really well, so he knows the place and we know him.

'Of course that would be a great signing, but for the people behind the scenes to deal with and we’ll have to see if it gets over the line.

'He showed last year just what a good player he is, especially in the second half of the season. We all know what he can bring to the team, and you need as many good players as you can to help improve the competition in the squad.



'If Fabio returns, it will help everyone else drive on and get better.'

Timely: Borini scored four of his seven goals in Sunderland's final five games to beat the drop





====== 2168 ========

JAMES RODRIGUEZ'S VOLLEY AND ARTURO VIDAL'S CRAZY HAIR... RIO FERDINAND'S WORLD CUP AWARDS!

James Rodriguez's volley, Arturo Vidal's crazy hair and Danny Murphy's jumper... it's time for Rio Ferdinand's World Cup awards!



James Rodriguez's superb volley, Arturo Vidal's crazy hair and Danny Murphy's jumper have been just a few of the stand-out moments of the 2014 World Cup, but what else?



Here, Sportsmail's Rio Ferdinand picks his World Cup awards as the tournament comes to a close.



Best player: James Rodriguez of Colombia

I picked him out from the start as being someone who would shine but he has surpassed that — he was the star of the World Cup.



He scored six goals and made two assists, as well as being the team’s talisman — all this and he’s only 23 years old. He is a national treasure and I predict that he will be the best player in the world within three years.

Best goal: James Rodriguez

His chest-and-volley in the game against Uruguay was a goal of wonder and delight.

Contact: James Rodriguez connects with the ball brilliantly on the volley after letting it drop from his chest

Volley: Diego Godin tries in vain to stop Rodriguez's rocket as it flies towards goal Helpless: Fernando Muslera can do nothing to stop Rodriguez's goal-bound strike Ecstatic: Rodriguez peels away after seeing the ball bounce down and into the net after hitting the crossbar

Best coach: Joachim Low

Germany have been the ultimate team in Brazil and have always looked strong and as if they know what they’re doing. This has to be in large part due to the contribution of their manager.



Best match: Brazil 1 Germany 7

This wins the award because it was a devastating, clinical, precise and well-organised performance by Germany.



Standing alone: Miroslav Klose became the tournament's leading scorer with 16 goals

Unhappy ending: Brazil conceded seven goals - five during the first-half - to end their World Cup dream

Best moment: Brazil and Colombia (shared)

Brazil for applauding Rodriguez after their game. Colombia for their incredible celebration dances.

Biggest mistake I made on TV: When I told everyone that we were at the Maracana when we weren’t



That wasn’t my greatest moment.

Greatest contribution to football hairstyles: Arturo Vidal of Chile

This wasn’t a vintage year for ridiculous hairstyles like some World Cups in the past but my award goes to Vidal for having such a lot going on on his head. He has a long way to go to match the king of bonkers football hairstyles, though: Taribo West is still the man.



The lucky winner: Arturo Vidal had a lot going on on his head at the World Cup with Chile

Favourite food in Brazil: Rice and beans

Very simple but very tasty and I grew up on rice and beans so this was like coming home!

Best contribution to footballing fashions: Danny Murphy’s jumper

What on earth was that all about? It was four sizes too big and hanging off him. Buy one that fits, Murph!

What I will miss most about Brazil: The friendly people

As well as waking up on the beach every day — not literally you understand, but waking up with the beach outside my window. Working with great people has also been brilliant as has meeting great people in Brazil.



I haven’t experienced any animosity or trouble at all. So I’d like to give a special award to the people of Brazil for making the World Cup so special.

====== 2169 ========

GERMANY 1-0 FRANCE: BASTIAN SCHWEINSTEIGER PROVES SOLID IN WORLD CUP QUARTER-FINAL

Germany 1-0 France PLAYER RATINGS: Veterans Bastian Schweinsteiger and Philipp Lahm prove solid as Joachim Low's men earn place in World Cup semi-final



Germany beat France 1-0 to move into the World Cup semi-finals



Mats Hummels opened scoring with header for Germany 12 minutes in

Bastian Schweinsteiger and Philipp Lahm solid in quarter-final win



Joachim Low made big calls ahead of game but tactics paid off



Germany saw off France in a dramatic World Cup quarter-final to book their place in the final four.

It took Mats Hummels just 12 minutes for Joachim Low's men to get going with a precise header that proved enough for Germany to win 1-0.



But how did the players get on individually? JOE CALLAGHAN gives his ratings.



GERMANY

Manuel Neuer: 7

Thirty-two years after Harald Schumacher grabbed the headlines against France, Neuer had a quieter afternoon.



Philipp Lahm: 7.5



Removed as defensive midfield pivot to steady a shaky defence, the captain thrived in more familiar ground.



Jerome Boateng: 6



Preferred to Per Mertesacker as Hummels' partner but still looked vulnerable to balls over the top.

VIDEO Scroll down to watch Germany fans celebrating their side's win over Fance



Save: Manuel Neuer was strong in goal for Germany as per and helped them win with a clean sheet Stop: Neuer kept Germany in the tie right up to the final few minutes when France threatened to equalise Mats Hummels: 7

Was missed so badly against Algeria but returned here to contribute hugely. A superb header opened the scoring.

Benedikt Howedes: 6.5

Not in his natural role but continues to show little evidence of being uncomfortable as a full back.

Bastian Schweinsteiger: 7.5

Another to benefit from the Lahm switch, he revelled in being the quarterback again. Couple of key interceptions too.

Leap: Germany defender Jerome Boateng (right) tries to win the ball during the quarter-final clash Peace: Bastian Schweinsteiger (right) made key interceptions and looked comfortable as quarterback Sami Khedira: 6

Not as busy as his defensive midfield partner but got through what work he had diligently. Deserved yellow card from cynical play.

Thomas Muller: 6.5

Removed from false nine duties to act as a deeper and wider foil in the attack but still an absolute pest.

Toni Kroos: 6.5

The man with the most completed passes in the tournament was at it again. Superb delivery for the opener.

Rally: Thomas Muller encourages his Germany team-mates during their crucial win over France Opener: Germany celebrate after their first goal to get them on their way to the World Cup semi-finals Mesut Ozil: 6

Needed an upturn against Algeria and provided it. Carried that improved form here. Busy if a little isolated from play.

Miroslav Klose: 6

Low went horses for courses and finally called on his World Cup thoroughbred. Led the line energetically but threw in an awful dive too.

Manager Joachim Low: 8

Made some huge calls in team selection and saw one immediately justified with Hummels' goal.

Yellow cards: Khedira (54), Schweinsteiger (80) Boss: Germany manager Joachim Low (right) chats with assistant coach Hansi Flick during the win Celebrate: Germany made the semi-finals after seeing off France in a tight encounter Premier League pedigree: Per Mertesacker hugs Bacary Sagna in the tunnel after the crunch match

FRANCE

Hugo Lloris: 6



Nothing the captain could do about Mats Hummels' header. Attempts at quick distribution came to little.



Mathieu Debuchy: 6



Marshalled Ozil relatively well. Tried to get forward plenty but got little change out of Howedes.



Raphael Varane: 5



Preferred to Laurent Koscielny but so easily out-muscled by Mats Hummels for the opener. Not a great day out.

In: Hugo Lloris dives to make a save but couldn't stop Mats Hummels from giving Germany the lead Backtracking: Lloris could do nothing about Hummels' header and could not captain his side to victory Mamadou Sakho: 5.5

Still struggles to convince that he's the £15million defender Liverpool thought they were getting. Nervy.

Patrice Evra: 6

Toiled at times against Nigeria but more solid here. Superb cross to Benzema before break deserved better.

Yohan Cabaye: 6

Withdrawn after 73 minutes of trying - but failing - to control operations in midfield. Lacked support but he's had better days.



Beaten: Patrice Evra loses out on a header during France's loss to Germany in the quarter-final Task: Yohan Cabaye was withdrawn after 73 minutes after trying - but failing - to control the game Blaise Matuidi: 5.5

Blessed not to have been suspended for this one but he struggled to impose himself at times in the middle.

Paul Pogba: 6.5

Took it to the Germans with five first-half dribbles but we've already come to expect so much more. For him, a quiet day.

Mathieu Valbuena: 6

He might not make it much higher than the corner flag but he has really raised his game in Brazil. Not enough though.

Control: France crashed out of the World Cup in the quarter-finals but Germany make the final four Heading home: Benzema couldn't find the back of the net, despite his last-gasp effort Karim Benzema: 6

Drew back-to-back blanks after a red-hot start to the tournament but had chances to get back on the board here. Couldn't take them.

Antoine Griezmann: 5.5

Could have laid one on a plate for Benzema early on had he steadied himself. Little impact overall.

Manager Didier Deschamps: 6

Like his opposite number, made a change in central defence but it wasn't nearly as successful.

Yellow cards: NONE Gutted: France crashed out of the World Cup at the hands of Germany and will be heading home

Frustrated: France manager Didier Deschamps could do little to lift his team to the World Cup semi-finals





























































====== 2170 ========

SUSIE WOLFF MASSIVELY DISAPPOINTED AFTER LASTING ONLY FOUR LAPS ON FULL F1 DEBUT

Susie Wolff 'massively disappointed' after lasting only four laps on full F1 debut



Wolff only lasted four laps on her full Formula One debut

The 31-year-old is the first female driver to step into an F1 cockpit during a Grand Prix weekend

The Scot lasted 20 minutes of the session after a oil-pressure problem

Williams driver ended the session nine seconds down on Nico Rosberg

Susie Wolff has expressed her disappointment at completing only four laps on her full Formula One debut.

The 31-year-old Briton became the first female driver to step into an F1 cockpit during a grand prix weekend in more than two decades when she took part in the opening practice session at Silverstone on Friday morning.

Out: Williams' Susie Wolff was massively disappointed with the way she retired in the opening practice History: The 31-year-old became the first female driver to step into an F1 cockpit during a grand prix weekend But Wolff lasted just 20 minutes of the one hour-and-a-half session before grinding to a halt on track with an oil-pressure problem. She completed just four laps and ended the session almost nine seconds down on championship leader Nico Rosberg in his Mercedes. ‘It is a massive disappointment,’ said Wolff. ‘On the one side, we had such a good build-up to this weekend; obviously I had put in so much hard work, so much preparation to get ready for today and I knew exactly what I had to do on every lap out there.

Sad end: Marshals remove the car of Scottish driver Wolff after an oil-pressure problem

‘It felt good - even the out lap - but that is racing, and I have known from over the years, that there can be massive ups and massive downs.’

Breaking the norm: Wolff is the first woman in 22 years to take part in F1 practice

Wolff will be handed another chance at the wheel of the WIlliams during practice for the German Grand Prix later this month, but the Briton insists there won’t be added pressure on her to impress despite her horror show at Silverstone.

‘It is very, very disappointing, but I have still got Hockenheim, and I have to go out and show what I can do because I did not get the chance to do that today,’ she added.

‘There isn’t extra pressure. It is about having the same approach, being well prepared and knowing exactly what I have to do.

‘You can’t expect to be on the grid unless you show that you are good enough to be there. Until I have done a good job in Hockenheim then I am not willing to say too much about the future.’

Toto Wolff, husband to Susie, and shareholder at Williams, was seen dining in the British team’s new motorhome during lunch on Friday.

‘He has been very suppoportive and I am incredibly lucky in that sense,’ Wolff said of her husband, and executive director at Mercedes.

‘He is my biggest supporter, but also my biggest critic. He knew that I had to go out there and do a good job today and there was no chance of messing it up. He is quite sad that I didn’t get to show it.’

====== 2171 ========

ANDY MURRAY IS MOVING IN ONE DIRECTION AS WIMBLEDON HERO FEEDS OFF HIS STAR TREATMENT

Andy Murray is moving in one direction as Wimbledon hero feeds off his star treatment



British No 1 enjoys star status after his 2013 Wimbledon success

Murray's next tie is against giant South African Kevin Anderson

Anderson has delivered 63 aces in three matches so far

Andy Murray knew things had changed a week ago when he walked out on Centre Court to the kind of pop star reception not witnessed since the exceptional days of the London 2012 tennis event.

If his first week was marked by a series of sublime displays against relatively unthreatening opposition, it was also notable for an unreserved adulation of the defending champion that has taken years to build.

Members of One Direction, present last week and expected again here (gasp), might have known the feeling Murray got when he came out to tackle his first opponent, David Goffin.

Focused: Andy Murray has performed well in the first week and is confident going into this week

Putting the work in: Murray prepares for his fourth round match on the practice courts

Good feeling: Murray shares a joke with new coach Amelie Mauresmo on Sunday VIDEO Murray training with Mauresmo

Doubtless on Monday the greeting will be similar, but the challenge will be very different to that offered by the lightweight, diminutive Belgian. The 27 year-old Scot could feel positively Lilliputian as he walks out alongside South Africa’s Kevin Anderson.

The 6ft 8in giant from Johannesburg is the fourth of seven men whom Murray will have to beat between now and next Sunday to successfully defend his title.

With the way he has played so far, it is easy to forget that last year’s winner has not reached any final since — the process of returning to his best proving lengthy after back surgery and a change of coach.

For now, the temptation has to be resisted of thinking ahead to potentially sumptuous matches later in the week, a possible quarter-final against the coming man Grigor Dimitrov and a semi that would be a repeat of the 2013 final against Novak Djokovic.

Anderson is more dangerous than anyone Murray has met in the previous rounds, even if he looks like he might have got lost on his way to the nearest basketball court.

Tall order: Giant South African Kevin Anderson (left) will face Murray on Monday

High society: Anderson returns to Fabio Fognini of Italy in their third round match

He shares something with Murray in that he first got into the game via playing swingball. He graduated to the local junior circuit, where one of his rivals was the prodigiously talented AB de Villiers, now one of the world’s finest cricketers.

Anderson left South Africa for three years on the American college circuit playing for Illinois State, where he was initially known as someone who only pushed the ball gently around and failed to harness his enormous levers.

At 28 that has all changed and he is one of the most ferocious ball strikers on the tour, aside from having the hefty serve you would expect. If a rally lasts more than half-a-dozen shots, he is likely to pull the trigger and try to end it with a death-or-glory winner.

When Murray was in the final last year, the genial giant found himself rooting for the home player and accepts that he has to play the villain when the match starts at around 3pm on Monday.

‘You couldn’t help but hope for Andy last year,’ he admitted. ‘I really enjoy watching Novak play but at this tournament, given the history, Andy had a lot of support, even from other players.

‘Maybe I’ll be the bad guy but I need to try to block that out. Andy has won it now, so I guess there’s no need for him to go on and win two in a row!



Star status: Niall Horan (second right) and Liam Payne (third left) of One Direction attend Wimbledon

‘It will be amazing just to play on Centre Court, not many people in this sport do it. It will be a great experience but I am there to win the match.’

Anderson is a good athlete, to the point where he was once a promising 800 metres runner.

But while he moves well for someone of his size, he can expect to be dragged all over the court in rallies by Murray, a master manipulator of the tennis ball.

Murray’s uncommon eye picks up a big serve early and is a major factor in why he has compiled such a good record against tall players, whom he teases by keeping the ball sliced low. Anderson’s serve is a weapon, although just below the most devastating in the game.

He has delivered 63 aces in three matches so far but been broken six times in 56 service games — and none of his opponents returns as well as Murray. If he keeps his composure as well as he has so far, Murray should come through.

He has enjoyed the experience of being defending champion and was cheerful on Sunday amid the eerie calm of Wimbledon on its traditional rest day. ‘I think after winning it last year, the pressure of wanting to win definitely was finally released,’ said Murray. ‘Obviously I’m still feeling the pressure and the nerves but this year they are completely different. I like having the nerves and I’m able to use them positively.’



Big time: Murray's celebrity status was boosted by his Wimbledon glory in 2013

This week is also a huge test for his new coach Amelie Mauresmo, although their relationship has clearly worked well to date.

‘It’s great having Amelie around. She’s a very calm person but also incredibly supportive, so naturally that helps me,’ said Murray.

‘She’s also a great listener and if I have any concerns she’ll listen to them and then we’ll work through them in practice.

‘She has been over to the house a few times but she’s not living with us. It’s quite important to give each other space, particularly during the Grand Slams as you can spend a lot of time together.’

====== 2172 ========

RICHARD SCHAEFER LEAVES GOLDEN BOY PROMOTIONS AFTER 14 YEARS AS CEO

Richard Schaefer leaves Golden Boy promotions after 14 years as CEO



Richard Schaefer has announced his decision to leave the world’s biggest boxing promotional company, Golden Boy.

The former banker will step down from his role as CEO following 14 successful years at the helm.

Schaefer’s final few months were dogged by his deteriorating relationship with president Oscar De La Hoya.

The former six-division world champion had angered Schaefer by rebuilding his relationship with Top Rank promoter Bob Arum.

End of the road: Richard Schaefer announced that he is stepping down as CEO of Golden Boy

Differences: Richard Schaefer and Oscar De La Hoya

Schaefer said in a statement: ‘After more than 10 years with Golden Boy, it is time to move on to the next chapter of my career.

‘This decision has required a great deal of personal reflection, but ultimately I concluded that I have no choice but to leave. I have succeeded in banking and I have succeeded in boxing, and I look forward to the next opportunity.

‘I am proud to remain a shareholder, so I have a strong interest in the continued success of the company. I am proud of what we have accomplished at Golden Boy, but I now look forward to new challenges.’

Schaefer could now link up with Floyd Mayweather and powerful but secretive boxing advisor Al Haymon who recently signed a plethora of fighters, including Britain’s Amir Khan.

Mayweather said last month that he would be happy to work with Shaefer should he leave Golden Boy.

‘Richard always has a home over here. We would love to work with him hand in hand if he has any problems over there because we know it’s a company Richard Schaefer built,’ he said.

====== 2173 ========

BEN KAY'S BIG MOMENTS FROM ENGLAND 29-18 WALES - DANNY CARE BLEW WELSH AWAY

Ben Kay's big moments from the game: Care's stunning start blew Wales away, Gatland's men couldn't catch up



DANNY'S BUZZING

Danny Care’s explosive start gave England a tempo which left Wales struggling to catch up. Care showed confidence and cheek to get the first try, catching Wales off guard when back pedalling in defence. His buzz is infectious. Long may it last.

Too quick: Danny Care celebrates his early try for England after a quick tap penalty

HIBBARD HOWLER

Richard Hibbard will have nightmares about the throw which handed England the initiative for Luther Burrell’s try. England forced the hooker to throw long because of their pressure on the Welsh line. It went so far that England stole possession and set up the attack which led to the try.

CRYING SHAME

Miss of the match came from Wales on 50 minutes. In a rare decent counter-attack, Jamie Roberts had George North outside in space. Perhaps he tried to copy Billy Twelvetrees’ delicate try-making kick but North’s anguished cry said it all.

Missed opportunity: Jamie Roberts is wrapped up by Luther Burrell and Joe Launchbury

FANTASTIC FARRELL

It may be boring but those downfield punts by Owen Farrell helped England’s game management in that first half when Wales stayed in the match through Leigh Halfpenny’s place kicking.



The pair did not miss a shot at goal but Farrell’s overall kicking game was a key factor.

On the money: Owen Farrell's kicking display helped England on their way to victory at Twickenham

LANCASTER'S BUILDING

Stuart Lancaster’s triumphant punch said it all. His squad delivered and even late substitutions held up unlike in the Paris defeat by France.



This gives him something tangible — a first Triple Crown since 2003 — to show his team are making strides. Warren Gatland is too canny to be fazed by this, but Wales failed to spark. He took off Rhys Priestland for the last 18 minutes but did not have the same strength in depth.

====== 2174 ========

LATEST FOOTBALL NEWS AND TRANSFERS WITH SPORTSMAIL - 27 JAN 2014

FOOTBALL 9-5: Follow all the news with Sportsmail's live rolling service



Join Sportsmail's Football 9-5 service, where we bring you the latest news, views and pictures as it happens throughout the day.

Look no further for all the latest on the big stories as our team of reporters will help keep you updated on all matters across the country to ensure you don't miss a thing.

So join us as we keep an eye on all the breaking news, tweets, rumours, views and pictures to help you bring you the very latest from the football world.

====== 2175 ========

AUSTRALIA 7-0 ENGLAND: MORGAN SCORES A CENTURY BUT COOK'S TOURISTS STILL CAN'T WIN AS AUSSIES SNIFF 13-0 TOUR ANNIHILATION - ENGLAND ARE ABSOLUTELY... USELESS!

Australia 7-0 England: Morgan scores a century but Cook's tourists STILL can't win as Aussies sniff 13-0 tour annihilation - England are absolutely... USELESS!



Your striker fluffs a sitter, your defender shanks a clearance, your winger misses a try or your hot tip falls at the first fence... All together now: 'USELESS!' Our man delivers the verdict with real feeling. Today's it's the England cricket team's turn - AGAIN - to be handed the dubious honour...



.................................................................................................................................

Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Melbourne, Sydney and back to Melboune and Brisbane again - that's the sequence of cities to have witnessed the annihilation of England's wretched, pathetic and utterly useless cricketers this dark winter.

How low can you go? Tim Bresnan of England falls to the turf as England crash to ANOTHER defeat on their embarrassing tour of Australia - this time losing the second ODI by one wicket in Brisbane

Even when the hoodoo looked like it was going to broken in today's one-day match in Brisbane following Eoin Morgan's blistering century and Chris Jordan's superb catch, Alastair Cook's tourists managed to snatch defeat from the jaws of victory.



The Aussies were teetering at 244 for nine and STILL England failed to claim victory as Ben Stokes and Tim Bresnan served up some cafeteria bowling at the death.

James Faulkner - oh, and he came in at No 9 let's not forget - helped himself to an unbeaten 69 to hand Australia a 7-0 lead in international matches played against the auld enemy on this tour.

Tunnel of love: James Faulkner of Australia is cheered off by his team-mates after his match-winning innings over England at The Gabba

Laughing stock: Australia coach Darren Lehmann (left) and tormentor in chief David Warner (right) can't hide their glee after Australia established a 2-0 one-day series lead



With three one-day internationals and three Twenty20 internationals still to come, there's a very real the final score could be 13-0.



That scoreline really would be death of English cricket.



NOW CLICK ON THE VIDEO BELOW TO HEAR OUR MAN'S VERDICT...





====== 2176 ========

THE MIDLANDER: WILL PAUL LAMBERT'S ASTON VILLA PROGRESS OF STAGNATE?

The transition was painful, but Lambert finally has Villa bursting with energy... will they keep progressing or stagnate?



It is almost 18 months now since Paul Lambert swept into Villa Park with a vision of a very different future.

So, where are we? How is "The Project"?

Asked to buy into a new-look club by owner Randy Lerner, the Scot set about his task with zeal.

Big-name players found themselves sidelined. Lesser lights were promoted.

Lions: Villa have slowly progressed under Lambert, but still face a test this season to continue

At first, the transition was painful.

The one thing Lambert had in his favour was the leeway he was granted to carry out his job. It was an unprecedented mandate afforded him by Villa's supporters.

The fact is that the Glaswegian oversaw little by way of improvement during the first-half of his inaugural season.

The team's inability to keep a clean sheet, the alienation of senior players, the heaviest defeat in the club's history at Stamford Bridge and the embarrassment of losing to Bradford City in the semi-finals of the Capital One Cup combined to make it a depressing first six months.

From February onwards, there were highlights. The form of Christian Benteke. The ability of Lambert's team to dig out results when they mattered most. Players such as Brad Guzan, Nathan Baker and Fabian Delph refused to buckle under the pressure. Indeed, they thrived upon it.

That preceded a summer where there has been another huge turnover of players.

Relief: Aston Villa's Leandro Bacuna (centre) celebrates scoring in the 2-0 win over Cardiff

The result is that Lambert's Villa is now bursting with energy. With Ron Vlaar added to the list of those who have finally got to grips with life in the Premier League, there is an altogether stronger feel to the side.

Goals are not being shipped at an alarming rate. The club has, at the time of writing, kept four clean sheets - one less than Villa managed through the whole of last season.

Lerner wanted the club to be self-sufficient. The set of accounts for this period will be issued in January 2015. They will show Villa operating on an even keel.

But the club remains a long way from the top six. Their last three outings at Villa Park against Tottenham show that the visitors have scored an aggregate of ten goals. Villa have scored none.

The Champions League was once within touching distance. At present, it's just in the distance.

Young prospects: Villa struggled at times last term, but finally found their feet late on in the campaign

Performances against Hull City, Norwich City and Cardiff City have not been convincing. But they have yielded seven points. Credit must be forthcoming for that.

The Villa of last season would have struggled even more against three resolute opponents. Victories at Arsenal and over Manchester City? Fanciful.

Yet the club sits in mid-table. It's a mixed bag. So, what is the true picture at Villa Park?

Jonathan Fear, editor of the Vital Villa website, said: 'Undoubtedly some fans are happy. If you look at the results, such as beating Manchester City and Cardiff City, then why not?

'But if you had actually gone to the games - while the results might be improving - I'd argue the performances haven't.

'When the final whistle blew against Manchester City, the woman behind me laughed and said: 'How the hell have we won that?'

Big man: Villa managed to keep hold of Christian Benteke for at least another season

'And Paul Lambert can say Rome wasn't built in a day. That's true. But it was built by quality craftsmen.

'The vision might be to create Borussia Dortmund in Birmingham. But from what I can see, we are not bringing our own players through. We're buying cheap foreign imports, some of who have come off, some of whom won't.

'It feels like we are slipping into mediocrity - if we aren't there already.'

Dave Woodhall, editor of the Heroes and Villans web-site, added: 'Villa are in an awkward position - too big that just being in the Premier League counts as success yet they don't have the resources to challenge regularly for the top places.

'Will the Dortmund or Ajax model be the way forward? I don't know.

'But when I look at the likes of West Brom, for example, they have a direction and they keep to it.

Toppled: Two big wins over Man City and Arsenal (below) have kept Villa fans onside this term

'Two seasons ago, they lost Roy Hodgson to England and it didn't feel as though the club as much as blinked.

'But when Villa change managers, they always seem to start again from scratch.

'Now we have got Lambert who seems determined to follow through a plan. He has to be allowed to follow it through.'

The performances have been steady, rather than spectacular. While Lambert's side looks more difficult to beat, the supply of goals has dried up.

They are better when teams come at them, they counter with pace and use any space to create trouble.

Unfortunately, there is no creative spark. No-one is going to drop their shoulder and ghost past anyone on a regular basis. Entertaining? Hmm.

Lambert's Villa is very much a work-in-progress. But there has been progress. How much we will probably be better able to assess at the turn of the year.





Steven Pressley has always struck a chord with yours truly as being a man of principle.

When he stood up to be counted at Hearts, calling out disgraced owner Vladimir Romanov for meddling in team affairs, he knew he was putting his professional livelihood on the line.

Pressley felt, as skipper of the Edinburgh club, that he had a duty to point out what he felt was wrong, no matter the fact it cost him another contract and, to this day, his actions are a source of debate.

Now that he is in management, that sense of principle remains.

Stand up: Pressley's sense of principle remains as a manager, just as it did as a player

Clearly, what happened at Bradford City last weekend caused Pressley to overload.

He might have been incensed at drawing a match which the Sky Blues had looked like winning after the first ten minutes.

And the handball committed by Jordan Clarke in the dying seconds will only have added to his sense of frustration. As did Phil Parkinson's reaction at the end.

After the final whistle, Pressley spoke about the bigger picture. He talked about the responsibility he shoulders - along with every other coach in the country - to develop young talent in the proper manner.

He may be right. I happen to think there's merit in his words.

Up there: Pressley's Coventry have been on good form despite their points penalty before the season

But to use Bradford City as the object of his scorn because of their reliance on target man James Hanson after the final whistle was wrong.

Bantams' boss Parkinson can set his team up any way he wants. It's Parkinson's job to win matches for Bradford City. Just as it is for Pressley to win them for Coventry.

It's laudable that Pressley feels this greater responsibility. He showed commendable restraint in the technical area if the words that are attributed to Parkinson are correct.

But just after the final whistle was an injudicious time to voice his grievances. It looks mealy-mouthed.

Much as I empathise with Pressley, the Scot chose the wrong time and certainly the wrong place to make his point.

====== 2177 ========

SAM TOMKINS COLUMN: I'M DESPERATE TO ADD THE WORLD CUP TO MY GRAND FINAL AND CHALLENGE CUP TRIUMPHS

I'm desperate to add the World Cup to my Grand Final and Challenge Cup triumphs... and I can't wait to beat Australia in the opener at Cardiff



Before I get started on the World Cup I want to reflect on my final season with Wigan.

Our Grand Final victory, my second, was my last game for Wigan before I head off to the NRL next season and it was a fairytale ending. If I could have written the script for my last season at Wigan there’s no doubt I would have included chapters about Challenge Cup and Grand Final glory.

To score a last-minute try at Wembley and then turn around such a big margin at Old Trafford to beat Warrington was unbelievable. Needless to say we celebrated in style.

Scroll down to watch Rooney's good luck message and Sam's training tips



Warming up: Sam Tomkins is looking forward to the World Cup opener against Australia on Saturday In with a shout: Tomkins says England can beat the favourites, who will have the likes of Greg Inglis (below)

Domestic glory: Tomkins has won the Grand Final (left with the trophy and team-mate Pat Richards) and the Challenge Cup with Wigan this season



I didn’t have long to relax, though, before I knew it I was on the plane to South Africa for a training camp with the rest of the England boys who had played in the Grand Final where we met the rest of the squad. They’d been out there a week early working very hard.

The spirit in the camp was great when we arrived and remained the same throughout. Training was extremely intense, lots of heavy weights and lots of drills.

And of course the much talked about Burgess Boys joined us from Australia. God they are big, especially George and Tom. They are top lads and we are lucky to have them in our squad. I can’t wait to see the impact they make in the World Cup.



Sam is one of our best players and it’s been too long since he last played for England. I know he’s desperate to get started now.

I was rooming with my Wigan team-mate Josh Charnley. He’s one of my closest friends and we used to share for away games with Wigan. We have a good system; he does my washing and ironing.

As you can imagine with 24 lads there was plenty of banter flying around when we aren’t training. The guys from Wigan, including me, took great delight in winding Warrington’s Ben Westwood up after his punch on Blake Green in the Grand Final.



It was all in good jest but for the first three days we thought we’d ignore him. He’s a great guy and a fantastic professional and took the joke very well. I’m sure he’ll get his own back over the next few weeks at some point.

The trip to South Africa was a great learning and bonding experience for the team.

There are only a few days to go before we take on Australia at the Millennium Stadium. I’m incredibly excited by the prospect of walking out in front of a big crowd and singing the national anthem.



Playing Australia is the pinnacle of our sport and we want to get our campaign off to a winning start – and we are confident we can do that.

TOMKINS ON TWITTER

Follow Sam on Twitter @samtomkins1

I hear that Martin Offiah and Gethin Jones will be dancing with their Strictly Come Dancing partners.



Good luck to them, that’s all I can say about that, you won’t find me getting my dancing shoes on when I retire.

Joking aside, it promises to be a great show and I urge the fans of the four teams competing on Saturday to come and support us.

At some point in the competition we may come across New Zealand and the freakish talent that is Sonny Bill Williams. It’s great news for the tournament that he’s decided he wants to play.



He’s one of the biggest names, if not the biggest, in our sport. As players we want to test ourselves against the very best and he definitely is that.

My brother Joel was selected in England’s squad for the upcoming Autumn Internationals this week.



For Joel and I to both be playing at the top of our sports is unbelievable – our family are very proud.

Joel’s such a talent and has worked so hard on his game since his move to Saracens.



The transition from league to union isn’t an easy one but he’s handled it fantastically well and I’ve got no doubt he will hit the ground running and can go on and prosper on the international stage.

====== 2178 ========

ANDY TOWNSEND: IT'S A NERVE-RACKING EXPERIENCE BEING BEHIND TO A MINNOW, BUT THAT'S WHERE YOU SEE REAL CHARACTER

Andy Townsend: It's a nerve-wracking experience being behind to a minnow, but that's where you see real character

I know exactly how those Aston Villa boys will be feeling as they line up in the tunnel before tonight’s game.

Nervous, excited... it might have been almost two decades ago but the situation I faced in 1994 was uncannily similar. And the feelings of the players won’t have changed.

I was playing for Villa when we had battled to the semi-finals of the then Coca-Cola Cup, but had been stunned by Tranmere Rovers, losing 3-1 in a poor first-leg display at Prenton Park to a side from a division below us.



Instrumental in victory: Dean Saunders couldn't play the guitar, but he could score goals

Support act: Villa fans mob Saunders after the penalty shootout win

We're Ron our way to Wembley: Big Ron Atkinson celebrates Villa's semi-final win

Just like Paul Lambert’s side, we had not turned up in that first leg and our boss, Ron Atkinson, was absolutely furious. At the time, I was teaching Dean Saunders to play the guitar and he had taken it with him to the team hotel so he could practise there. After the match, Ron decreed: ‘Everyone back to Bodymoor Heath.’ (Villa’s training ground)

Deano and Macca (Paul McGrath) both lived 30 minutes away from Tranmere, on the Wirral. Double trouble: Shaun Teale and Neil Cox try to stop John Aldridge as Pat Nevin looks on

Roverjoyed: Aldridge celebrates scoring past Mark Bosnich

Net loss: Bosnich is beaten by Mark Hughes in the first leg as Tony Daley (right) looks on

Saunders, now manager of Wolves, voiced his anger at this — saying it was silly having to drive past his house to get to Bodymoor. Bear in mind it was close to 11pm by this time. ‘Not my problem you live near Manchester,’ said Ron, whereupon Deano, sitting at the back, slung his kitbag over one shoulder and picked up his guitar, before marching off the bus in protest. He was in a filthy mood and smashed his instrument off the back of every player’s head.

Keep going: The tension mounts in the shootout as Tranmere's Eric Nixon (left) swaps places with Mark Bosnich

It was about the best noise Deano ever got from that guitar... but Ron was still furious and warned him that he would be fined two weeks’ wages if he got off. Deano did get off the coach — though I don’t know if he was ever hit in the pocket — but he was back in the good books when he grabbed the first goal in the second leg with a near-post finish.

Shaun Teale’s second put us back on level terms, but John Aldridge then showed he still had a goal in him when he raced clear of our defence and keeper Mark Bosnich brought him down. He slotted home the penalty and we were back behind. It stayed that way until the last few moments when Dalian Atkinson scored. But then Liam O’Brien, who was a bit like Darron Gibson of Everton in that he had a thumping shot on him, curled a great free-kick which hit the inside of a post in injury time. If that had gone in, we would never have had the chance to win the semi-final on penalties — and then go on to enjoy that wonderful final victory over Manchester United a few weeks later. Show stopper: Bosnich saves a kick in the shootout

And I think there are a few pointers from that evening which may help. The atmosphere will go up by about three levels from what Villa’s players have seen before. It will be totally different to what the majority of Bradford’s team are used to as well.

You can harness that. Villa’s players will need to start strong and get the crowd behind them. The fans will need to be shown that they can turn it around, even if the early goal isn’t forthcoming.



However, while this Villa team have raw enthusiasm, they don’t have the game-management skills that we had. It was an experienced team with the likes of McGrath, Ray Houghton and Kevin Richardson.

But I can’t stress how important, at the current stage of Villa’s development, winning this tie would be. It would be crucial for survival and could give a stamp of acceptability to their season. It certainly did for us back in ’94.

So, I’ll be keeping my fingers crossed. I’m still the last person to lift a trophy for Villa — in the same competition in ’96 — and that’s too long a time to go without winning something. And, as both my lads are Villa fans, I’m hoping they can experience a day out at Wembley of their own.

Stronger at the back: Villa will have to defend better against crosses to have any chance in the second leg



Cup of joy: Captain Andy Townsend celebrates Villa's 1994 Wembley win against Manchester United with Tony Daley (right)





====== 2179 ========

MARK HUGHES RESPONDS TO CRITICISM FROM MARTIN SAMUEL: QPR MUST BEAT SOUTHAMPTON

EXCLUSIVE: After being criticised in these pages by Martin Samuel, the QPR manager responds in his own words... 'I'm angry, the whole club's angry, so now WE MUST WIN



Make no mistake, Saturday's game with Southampton is massive for both sides and a potential launch pad for us in the Premier League.



Our chairman, Tony Fernandes, has called it a must-win game — and I can’t argue with that. As I said after the game at Stoke last week, we can’t keep simply playing well without being ruthless.



Only that ruthlessness will get us away from the foot of the table and only a consistent run of results is going to keep us out of trouble.

Centre of attention: The Queens Park Rangers boss speaks to members of the assembled media ahead of his side's crunch clash with Southampton

Crunch clash: Hughes is under no illusions as to what his side must achieve against Southampton

Martin Samuel on Mark Hughes 'Hughes was once tipped to follow Sir Alex into the United hotseat but now he's in a fight he can't afford to lose'



READ THE FULL ARTICLE HERE

It would be easy to make excuses and point out the injuries to the likes of Andy Johnson, Fabio, Park Ji-sung, Jose Bosingwa, Armand Traore and Samba Diakite over the course of the season so far.



They’re not excuses but they have been a factor in where we find ourselves. The squad has been improved over the summer but we still can’t replace those guys like-for-like at the moment.



Through all that, we’ve shown we can play good football and that’s come out in games against Chelsea, Everton, Spurs and even at Stoke last weekend. Again, I come back to the need to be more ruthless when we’ve been on top.



Despite everything, if anybody thinks there’s a sense of panic among the players and the staff, they’d be wrong. There is a great potential at this club and we have to start realising that potential as soon as possible.



No joy: QPR have lost seven and drawn four of their league fixtures despite the number of new additions this summer

The players are angry. Angry they’ve not got the results they think their football deserves. Angry they’ve let down the fans, who’ve been superb. Angry the club is in this position.



If there wasn’t that anger there, I’d be worried. As a manager, you want the players to have that fire, not to be moping around feeling sorry for themselves. If that was the mood around the training ground, then I would be worried and we’d be in trouble.



As I said, I’m not panicking. Of course I’m upset, only a fool wouldn’t be upset when you get to November and you are in the relegation zone and there’s nothing in the victory column, no three points to our name.

But I’ve been here before when I first took charge at Blackburn. We pulled out of that poor situation and emerged a stronger group and a stronger club. That taught me time, talent and hard work always pay off. I know we have all of those qualities at Rangers. Last season when I arrived at Loftus Road it was tough. We were charged by Tony and the board with saving QPR from relegation and that’s what we did.



Yes, it was tight but the home wins against the likes of Arsenal, Liverpool and Stoke towards the end of the season were the key to our escape. That’s the kind of form at Loftus Road we have to re-discover. Gritty, tough, hard- working and disciplined, those are the qualities which will see us right.

I read Martin Samuel’s column in these pages on Wednesday. I respect Martin’s views but if I had taken to heart half the things that have been said or written about me by him and others over the years, I would have walked away from football before I’d even started.



He talked about my track record and reputation being tarnished beyond repair by QPR’s current position. Firstly, it’s not about me at this stage, it’s about the players, my staff, the fans and the board. It’s about QPR. If I worried about my own reputation or about my ego being damaged, I wouldn’t have survived in football as a player or a manager for as long as I have.



Secondly, I truly believe every club I’ve ever managed I’ve left in a stronger position than when I arrived.



At Blackburn, we saw the club clear of relegation, finished sixth in my second season, 10th the next year and seventh in my final season. We also reached an FA Cup semi-final and regularly beat the likes of Chelsea, Manchester United and Arsenal.



When I arrived at Manchester City, the club wasn’t in anything like a sound financial state and in my first month we were tasked with selling to raise cash.



Ruthless: Hughes is angry his team have dominated games but failed to win them







Martin Samuel's column last Wednesday

But we oversaw a huge change in structure and culture once Sheik Mansour arrived and leaving them with the likes of Vincent Kompany and so many others remains something I take real pride in.

I was only at Fulham a year but we identified talent such as Mousa Dembele who they sold for a club record in the summer at a huge profit as well as finishing eighth and being profitable.



None of this buys QPR three points, I know that. But what it does do is underline the work I and my staff put in at different clubs and why there is still so much self-belief at QPR.



With the help of Tony and the shareholders — who’ve been nothing short of magnificent in their support — I feel QPR are a stronger, better club than it was when we arrived.

There’s been a huge overhaul of the scouting structure and we’re identifying top-class talent from across Europe, bringing in players of real pedigree and character.

The academy has made huge strides in the nine months we’ve been here and I honestly believe QPR will never be in a position where they nurture somebody like Raheem Sterling but lose him to Liverpool for just £500,000.



As one of the board said to me the other day, we’re not building something at QPR for six weeks or six months, the work we’re doing here will see the club survive and thrive for the next six years and beyond.



Obviously what counts more than anything, though, is getting that elusive first win against Southampton today. That’s what matters, that’s what will lift the whole club and the supporters.



The belief is there. The character is there. The determination is there. We know we’re better than the league table tells us.

We just have to start proving it.



Must-win: Hughes is under massive pressure to secure to secure the first three points of the season against the Saints





====== 2180 ========

SIMON JONES - THE INSIDER FOR THE DAILY MAIL

Kane tells his fiancee that he might cry for England if they win a trophy... but he can't guarantee he will shed a tear at their wedding Getting emotional

====== 2181 ========

THE INSIDER: LLORENTE LLORENTE, DANNY ROSE, NICKLAS BENDTNER AND HUGO ALMEIDA

Llorente has endured a torrid couple of months at Athletic as he continues to train with the team despite making it clear he wants to move on.



He has 10 months remaining on contract and they are refusing to budge from their buy-out clause valuation of £30million.



Llorente is an amiable character and is facing a tough time off the pitch with fans and the general public if he fails to secure a move before Friday night.

He would love to come to England and the likes of Tottenham, Manchester City and Liverpool would surely benefit from his presence.



He is aware Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers speaks Spanish, likes the idea of playing before an appreciative crowd and would consider a move even though they are not in the Champions League.



The problem is until Andy Carroll is sold, Liverpool do not have enough money to bid. City like him a lot also but Llorente believes he will be forced to stay in Spain until January.



====== 2182 ========

DAVID HAYE V DERECK CHISORA: WHAT WENT WRONG WITH BRITAIN'S GOLDEN BOY?

A pay day, but no pride for Britain as Haye's downfall is complete

Before fighting John Ruiz in April 2010, David Haye was heralded as the ‘Lord of the Ring’ by Sky Sports. It seemed he was the answer to all the ills of British boxing.

Handsome and talented, he fought with flair and confidence. Perhaps a touch too light to perform with the giants of the heavyweight scene, he had the charm and the style to make his mark. Not since Lennox Lewis did the British fight scene have a talisman.



So how has it come to this?



Head to head: David Haye (left) and Dereck Chisora meet at Upton Park

DAVID HAYE'S DOWNFALL

Click here for Sportsmail's picture special on the career of the Hayemaker

On Saturday at Upton Park, Haye will climb from the floor to take on Dereck Chisora in a fight the British Boxing Board of Control has refused to sanction. Both are unlicensed by the BBBC. Both need each other.



It will attract a good attendance to east London — and a decent pay day — but this is not the way it should be. Not for Haye. He should be better than this.



The old fight game has to be about control and discipline but the origin of this fight stems from a lack of both from each fighter.



I remember all-British fights when they meant something more. Tony Sibson v Alan Minter, the fights involving Chris Eubank, Nigel Benn, Michael Watson and Steve Collins. Lennox Lewis against Frank Bruno, John Conteh and Chris Finnegan, Naseem Hamed and Steve Robinson, who had earlier fought my brother Duke.



Glory days: British stars Chris Eubank (right) and Nigel Benn

When I fought Terry Marsh in 1984, I was impatient for a world-title shot, but took on my best British rival instead, even though I was warned it was dangerous. I lost, but recognised what it meant to the British public to have these occasions.



More recently, James DeGale and George Groves was a domestic fight to cherish. But not this one, not tonight.



I will watch out of curiosity, but I will have no pride. It’s not a good night for boxing.

====== 2183 ========

AS THE SPICE GIRLS REUNITE AFTER 11 YEARS, ALISON BOSHOFF REVEALS THE INSIDE STORY OF THEIR FEUDS

They sang ‘friendship never ends’. But, sadly, that would not seem to be the case when it comes to the Spice Girls.

Yesterday, to great fanfare, and with megawatt smiles, the most successful girl group of all time announced that they are reforming for a valedictory tour, 24 years after Ginger, Posh, Sporty, Baby and Scary first lined up to enthral a generation of teenage girls.

Well, four of them are, anyway. Posh, aka Victoria Beckham, wife of former football star David and now a serious fashion designer and mother of four, was conspicuous by her absence yesterday.

And, as the Mail can reveal, the negotiations that led to this announcement have been fraught, to say the least.

According to a well-placed source, there has been a vicious falling-out between Mel B, Mel C, Emma Bunton and Geri Horner with Victoria and their former manager, Simon Fuller.

Yesterday, to great fanfare, and with megawatt smiles, the most successful girl group of all time announced that they are reforming for a valedictory tour

Well, four of them are, anyway. Posh, aka Victoria Beckham, wife of former football star David and now a serious fashion designer and mother of four, was conspicuous by her absence yesterday

So much so that it led to a four-letter text being sent to Victoria by Mel B earlier this year.

The bad feeling seems to centre on a sense of betrayal the remaining four feel about Victoria, 44, and Fuller, 58, pulling out of the tour, having apparently said at a meeting in February that they were fully on board.

Stirring up tensions further, according to our source, was Victoria posing in Spice-inspired outfits for her Vogue shoot earlier this summer, which drove Mel B into a foul-mouthed rage.

Last week, with a typically outrageous flourish, Mel B dressed up as Victoria Beckham for a Halloween party, holding a sign to indicate that she wouldn’t tour even if the fans begged. She added that they have a ‘love hate relationship’.

Missing Spice wasn’t mentioned in the official video yesterday, although she did send out a friendly tweet about her former bandmates.

However, despite relations reaching an all-time low, the four remaining Spice Girls are hoping desperately that she might join them on stage for at least one night out of the six.

One source closely connected to their camp tells me that the current thinking is that she might do it to ‘remind David of the woman he fell in love with’, while friends of Victoria scoff at the idea, saying hell will freeze over before she puts on those platform trainers again.

So what is the truth about the comeback — which may net them £8 million or more each? And will they really be able to sell out Wembley Stadium without Posh on board?

The Spice Girls pose on stage during The Return of Spice Girls World Tour at Madison Square Gardens on February 18, 2008 in New York City, New York

SAY YOU’LL BE THERE . . . AT WEMBLEY

Mel B’s enthusiasm for this tour is certainly related to the fact that she is absolutely broke after exiting her marriage to film producer Stephen Belafonte.

She was recently ordered to pay Belafonte £270,000 in legal fees and more than £3,000 a month in child support payments by a judge.

Some funds will come in from a memoir, Brutally Honest, which comes out later this month, and she was given a pay rise by Simon Cowell for acting as a judge on America’s Got Talent.

But Mel’s lawyers did reveal in court last year that she had spent all of her £38 million fortune, and that she and Belafonte didn’t even have the cash to pay their tax bills at the end of each year.

Spice up your life: Mel C, Geri, Victoria, Emma and Mel B in 1997. Five become four as they announce their comeback tour yesterday, minus Victoria

You can see how the prospect of earning up to £10 million apiece for a mini tour would appeal.

However, plans to get the ‘girls’ together again actually pre-date the end of Mel B’s unhappy marriage. The first mutterings came in 2015 when the possibility of a reunion in 2016 to mark the 20th anniversary of their first hit, Wannabe, was mooted.

Victoria said no, but the rest were on board. Then, in April 2016, Mel C said that she didn’t want to be part of it, either.

In July, the remaining three announced a one-off gig in Hyde Park later that summer. Both Mel C and Victoria reportedly threatened legal action over it.

By September of 2016, another idea had come into view — a TV talent show with the prize being a chance to join the remaining Spice Girls on Stage. In January last year, Geri said that she couldn’t do the reunion — because she had just had son Monty with husband Christian Horner.

But by April 2017 the idea of a tour started to gain momentum again as Mel B’s second marriage fell apart.

There was a meeting last February at Geri’s home in London, where they all — even Posh — agreed to do something, which was the genesis of the current plans.

Left to right; Mel C, Emma Bunton, Mel B, Geri Halliwell and Victoria Adams (later Beckham), aka Sporty, Baby, Scary, Ginger and Posh, respectively

WHO REALLY, REALLY WANTS THE CASH?

Mel B, 43, obviously, is in dire need of funds. She will be paid £2.15 million for the 2019 series of America’s Got Talent and has three daughters by three different men: Phoenix, 19, by first husband Jimmy Gulzar; Angel, 11, by Eddie Murphy; and Madison, seven, by second husband Belafonte.

Emma Bunton, 42, has a day job as a DJ at Heart FM and is said to be worth £21 million. She and fiance Jade Jones, formerly of the boy band Damage, have two sons, Tate, 11, and Beau, seven, and live in North London.

Mel C, 44, is said to be worth £27 million and had a successful career as a solo artist after leaving the band. She has a daughter, Scarlet, nine, by property developer Thomas Starr and is now dating her manager, Joe Marshall.

Geri, 46, meanwhile, is said to be worth £30 million after a post-Spice career which includes singing, writing children’s books and presenting a BBC singing competition. She has daughter Bluebell, 12, from a relationship with screenwriter Sacha Gervasi and son Monty, 22 months, from her marriage to motor racing executive Christian Horner.

FEUDING WITH THE SPICE SVENGALI

Enter Simon Fuller, a softly spoken Svengali figure with a perma-tan and beautifully veneered teeth, who managed the Spice Girls back in the day.

He owns the Pop Idol TV franchise and the publishing rights to Elvis’s back catalogue, and is also a major investor in various parts of Brand Beckham.

He introduced Posh and Becks in the Players Lounge at Manchester United. And although he was sacked by the Spice Girls in 1998 — rumour has it that it was over his relationship with Emma Bunton, which they both denied — Fuller was re-hired by Victoria in 2002 and remains her manager. From 2007 until this summer he also managed her husband.

Fuller came to the meeting at Geri’s house in February. A source said: ‘They all said they wanted to tour, and Simon Fuller said he would sort it.

‘Then he said let’s just sort out some Spice Girls rights issues because apparently it was in a bit of a mess. So they all signed various legal documents, and the next thing you know Victoria releases a range of Spice Girls T-shirts for Comic Relief and he announces a Spice Girls animated film, which was fine with everyone.

According to a well-placed source, there has been a vicious falling-out between Mel B, Mel C, Emma Bunton and Geri Horner with Victoria and their former manager, Simon Fuller

‘Then they were waiting to hear from Simon about a tour, and the girls started to have trouble getting hold of him.’

They were furious — and then Victoria announced she wouldn’t be touring again, after all.

‘They felt they had fallen for Simon Fuller’s “divide and conquer” again, which apparently he used when he was their manager the first time around.

‘So Melanie C suggested they all sign with her company, Modest Management.

‘The plan was to announce the tour on Thursday, but Jonathan Ross then posted on Instagram that he would be having the Spice Girls on his show this weekend, and all hell broke loose and it had to be brought forward.’

A spokesman for Fuller says it is ‘mistaken’ to talk of a falling out and adds that Fuller is involved in the tour in partnership with Modest Management.

Mrs Beckham’s spokeswoman says she never promised to tour, and that the T-shirts are ‘nothing to do’ with it.

VIVA FOREVER WITH ADDED SWEETNESS

The four remaining women say that they couldn’t be more thrilled to announce their stadium tour next summer. In a statement they said: ‘Bringing girl power and our message of friendship and love back to the stage feels more relevant than ever. We hope everyone can join us for one big Spice Girls party!’

Mel B posted: ‘I’ve said it sooo many times I’m beside myself it’s actually happening yipppeeee. I’m now properly screaming it from every rooftop — me and my girls will see you all on stage!!’

A source said: ‘They are bonded by wanting to do it and although there is a massive history of fall-outs, they have been burying the hatchet with each other left, right and centre.

Mel C, 44, is said to be worth £27 million and had a successful career as a solo artist after leaving the band. She has a daughter, Scarlet, nine, by property developer Thomas Starr and is now dating her manager, Joe Marshall

‘That said, they are all worried about what Mel B is going to do or say next.’ (They found her dressing up as Posh Spice for Halloween hugely embarrassing).

‘There is a feeling of now or never about this reunion. They are coming up to 50 and feel that this will be it — it’s a last chance to do it.’

Victoria Beckham gushed in a tweet: ‘I won’t be joining my girls on stage again, but being in the Spice Girls was a hugely important part of my life, and I wish them so much love and fun as they go back on tour next year.

‘I know they will put on an amazing show and the fantastic fans past and present are going to have a wonderful time!’

THE MISSING MRS MONEYBAGS

Victoria and Mel B haven’t got on for many years — indeed, their differing personalities were among the bigger problems for the band in their heyday. ‘The main battle line in the band has been Mel B and Victoria for years,’ says a source.

I’m told Victoria has always found Mel B loud and coarse, and that Mel B (like the others) doesn’t feel Mrs Beckham has much musical talent. Victoria was humiliated in the early days to discover her microphone would be turned down or even off during gigs.

The two women fell out badly during the Spice Girls’ last comeback tour in 2007, and didn’t speak for at least two years afterwards.

Mel B was then apparently stung when Victoria refused to lend her any clothes from her fashion label when she was trying to get her own reality TV show off the ground.

Then Victoria started saying no to all invitations to perform.

Victoria and Mel B haven’t got on for many years — indeed, their differing personalities were among the bigger problems for the band in their heyday (pictured: Mel B's recent dig at Mrs Beckham)

She explained: ‘I enjoy what I’m doing now so much more. Being in the Spice Girls was fantastic, but I was never going to be the best singer and it wasn’t my passion.’

With a personal fortune of £240 million, she doesn’t need the cash — although her fashion empire, which was launched in 2008, continues to make huge losses.

Mel B said yesterday: ‘It’s just the four of us, but she might join us at some point. I hope so. I think it would be a shame if she didn’t.

‘She’s got a full-on life with her commitments and the fashion line and her kids, so she’s not committing just yet.’

A source said: ‘Victoria was as nice as pie to Mel C at the Global Gift Gala on Sunday, but that does not mean she is going to go on stage with them.’

HORRORS ON THE LAST TOUR

Lessons must surely have been learned from the disasters that dogged the band’s last tour of America and the UK — which was cut short in February 2008.

Mooted dates in Sydney, Beijing, Cape Town and Buenos Aires never took place.

During rehearsals in 2007, Emma Bunton was in tears, intimidated by everyone’s egos and (as a new mother to baby Beau) plain exhausted. Geri drove them all to distraction by stopping a video shoot so that she could meditate.

A source said: ‘Victoria was as nice as pie to Mel C at the Global Gift Gala on Sunday, but that does not mean she is going to go on stage with them’

Victoria infuriated them by constantly chatting on her phone, mostly to David, although at one point she said: ‘I had to get that — it was Donatella (Versace).’

She apparently behaved very much the superstar, with a retinue of bodyguards and assistants.

Mel C had been bullied into coming on board. She said later: ‘They basically said if I didn’t want to do it then they were going to do it anyway . . .

‘I didn’t want to be the person who stopped it being the complete five. I was scared that I would be the villain.’

On tour, each Spice travelled with her own entourage.

Geri hated the atmosphere and the internal politics, and was the first to say that she was thinking of quitting.

Sources said she had issues with Victoria, in particular, down to simple jealousy over how famous Mrs Beckham has become.

And then Mel B said that she, too, wanted out. She said yesterday: ‘I wasn’t in a very good space with my marriage and I didn’t feel I could go on any more, living in this fake world.

‘It was my fault, so I was determined to get us back together and I’m still determined it will be five at one point.’

Disappointingly, their comeback single, Headlines, in 2007 was a flop, limping into the charts at number 20, having sold a feeble 5,000 copies.

====== 2184 ========

DAILY MAIL ONLINE

Theresa May refused three times today to say whether she would resign if her Brexit deal is killed off by MPs. The Prime Minister faces an 'impossible' battle to persuade enough MPs to back her deal next month and launched a PR blitz today in a bid win the fight in the country. But she refused to tell the BBC's Emma Barnett if she would quit if she fails during a live radio phone-in. Mrs May has tied her political fortunes to the deal, insisting her deeply unpopular package is the 'right one' for the country despite howls of despair from both Leave and Remain MPs. She said the deal - due to be signed off by the EU leaders on Sunday - would protect jobs and allow Britain to get on with Brexit in March. Asked if she would quit, the PM said: 'This isn't about me. As I'm sitting here, I'm not thinking about me, I'm thinking about getting a deal through that delivers for the people of this country.'

====== 2185 ========

JACI STEPHEN: IF SHAKESPEARE WROTE HOSPITAL SOAP OPERAS...

Casualty

Saturday, BBC1

Rating:

Age Before Beauty

Tuesday, Channel

Rating:

The Real Marigold Hotel

Wednesday, BBC1

Rating:

Grief is a monster that comes in many guises. Suddenly, at the unexpected death of a loved one; stealthily, as the realisation of loss sinks in; arbitrarily, when it strikes at unexpected moments, like a hand ripping out your heart sinew by sinew. No aspect of life is immune from the chameleon that is grief.

The series finale of Casualty was a remarkable episode in which characters experienced loss in many forms. A woman grieving for her dead baby, and Dr Jonathan Barling (Simon Shepherd) grieving not only for the child he had been unable to save, but the mother’s last hope of a baby extinguished. His wife Cat (Esther Hall) was grieving for what she believed to be the dying embers of her marriage and then the prospect of losing her life; Alicia (Chelsea Halfpenny) was grieving for the person she was before the rape that changed her life irrevocably.

Alicia (Chelsea Halfpenny) was grieving for the person she was before the rape that changed her life irrevocably

Cat ended up on the operating table after suffering 37 per cent burns trying to fix a car. I screamed. Casualty has a habit of making you do that. It was touch and go, and then Dylan (William Beck) said the only option left was a thingamy. You know you’re in deep trouble when the surgeon calls for a thingamy.

The medical terminology of Casualty is something no one ever needs to understand, let alone spell. All you have to know is that if you’re unconscious and need a thingamy – invariably something that begins with the letter L and ends in Y – there’s a strong chance your family will be called to the Relatives Room by Frowning Doctor. On a point of pedantry, that should technically be Relatives’ Room, but in 32 years no one arriving there has ever said, ‘OK, he’s dead, but where’s the missing apostrophe?’ I would have.

Pedantry aside, this episode was Shakespearean in magnitude, and it’s easy to see why Casualty won in the Best Soap and Continuing Drama category at this year’s Baftas. The arc of the two storylines was a masterclass in storytelling by Barbara Machin: never over-written, totally believable and at a pace and understated clarity that really gave the actors room to breathe. Great writing and great acting are realised in the spaces between the words. Nowhere was this more apparent than in the two central performances from Halfpenny and Shepherd.

Viewers will remember Shepherd as Dr Will Preston in the long-running drama Peak Practice. No one does doctor better, and there was not a hint of his previous incarnation in an intelligent, sensitive and tear-jerking performance. It’s not what an actor says that delivers power to the audience; it’s the ability to convey what he/she is thinking. I’d love to see him in the US drama Suits as a lawyer, which would be another natural character fit. Aaron Korsh, are you listening?

Despite cries to the contrary, female writers are enjoying a decent run at the moment. While lacking Machin’s subtlety, Cutting It creator Debbie Horsfield has delivered a character-filled romp in Age Before Beauty, with the focus again on a salon. Well, sex and a salon (again). Having been away 20 years, Bel (Polly Walker) returns to work there when her kids leave home for university. Her world is shaken when she discovers her husband Wesley (James Murray) is having an affair. An interesting though utterly implausible twist reveals that it’s all the work of her brother-in-law Teddy (Robson Green), who is trying to win her back from the man he lost her to years ago.

It’s all a bit predictable on the sex front – ‘You make me feel 18 again,’ says Wesley to the young and pretty personal trainer he’s making (and working) out with. Yep. That old chestnut. She thinks he ‘ticks all the boxes’. Does he? Married. Unfaithful. Dim. Can’t keep his trousers on after a glass of fizz. He’s also a not very good kitchen fitter. A tape measure doth not a DIY expert make. Also predictable are the stock ideas about ageing and beauty. Wesley is ‘pushing 50’ (ye gods!) so Bel’s dad (an always impressive Struan Rodger) thinks that’s the reason for his straying. Personally, I think the reasons are less complex. He’s a bloke.

Ageing is the central theme of The Real Marigold Hotel, which returned for a third series and another batch of ‘senior citizens’ (please stop reminding us) off to India for a month to see if they might like to retire there. Fat chance. But it’s a fun premise, ‘inspired by, but otherwise unrelated to, the film The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel’. Broadcaster Selina Scott brings gravitas to the proceedings and The Krankies deliver most of the laughs. They are two of the most naturally funny people in show business. Funniest of all was the news that jockey Bob Champion had never had a curry. At the rate he’s now having to eat them, it won’t be long before he’s rushed to casualty. Needing a thingamy.

Deborah Ross is away

====== 2186 ========

JANET STREET-PORTER: OUTRAGE OF HUMOURLESS ‘FEMINIST’S’ OVER M&S’S KNICKER-WINDOW IS JUST PANTS

Quite a few things make me feel physically sick - a random selection could include Noel Edmonds talking about his bizarre belief in a 'cosmic order', a plate of steaming tripe, electric scooters on pavements, and Tony Blair's secret ambition to return as our born-again saviour leading us fearlessly out of the mess of Brexit, with some new 'middle way'.

Dozens of major irritants can trigger off a JSP rant each day, but I can't get even slightly cross about a plastic shop window dummy wearing a skimpy bra and pants accompanied by the slogan 'Must Have- fancy little knickers'.

Who would have thought that crimson festive lingerie would trigger off a full-blown political protest? In our politically-correct, post #MeToo world, however, offence is easily taken.

The humourless Facebook group who style themselves Feminist Friends Nottingham were so outraged by Marks and Spencer's seasonal promotion in their local store, they took to social media to vent their spleen.

One miserable member of the collective, Fran Bailey, claimed the retailer 'had not learned anything in the last 35 years' and went on to ask 'Am I alone in finding this, their major window display, completely vomit-inducing?'.

'Fancy little knickers' row: Women were offended over the Marks and Spencer display which one member of the Feminist Friends Nottingham claimed was 'vomit-inducing'

Ms Bailey was particularly offended because next to the 'fancy' pants was a display of men's suits, entitled 'outfits to impress'.

Ms Bailey said she felt 'very, very strongly that the representation of woman as being pre-occupied with fancy little knickers, whereas men are presented as powerful and needing to be impressive'. She called the window display 'grossly offensive'.

In her mind, the retailer was also guilty of another crime- persuading us to spend our money! 'M and S using the slogan 'must-have' over Christmas fripperies is very distasteful when true necessities are lacking for many working and non-working people.' Now that is really hitting Britain's favourite knicker supplier where it hurts.

Ms Bailey, we're talking about a shop, not a charity, a company employing thousands of people, whose purpose is to flog food, home wares, knickers and clothing. To sell us gorgeous wine bargains, lovely little pre-peeled brussel sprouts, ready meals for two for £12. Marks and Spencer are not a soup kitchen a food bank or a recycling depot.

Janet Street Porter: 'Marks and Spencer might not be saving the planet single-handedly but they are the nation's number one purveyor of pants, selling over 60 million pairs last year'

The offending Christmas campaign is built around the slogan 'must haves' and ranges from men's suits to knickers, to matching pyjamas for the whole family.

One of the advertisements features the male model David Gandy doing the washing up in yellow rubber gloves wearing an M and S suit. Marks and Spencer has always tried to flaunt their socially aware credentials - one of the first to commit to saving the environment via a series of energy initiatives. OK, not a reason to shop there, but full marks for trying nevertheless.

Marks and Spencer might not be saving the planet single-handedly but they are the nation's number one purveyor of pants, selling over 60 million pairs last year, 26.7% of the whole lingerie market. They aim everything (including using David Gandy) at women.

Women take their men to the store and order them to buy a decent suit for a wedding, a job interview or a special occasion. Men don't naturally shop or enjoy adding anything to their wardrobes.

In the ruthless world of retail, online shopping has seen major retailers go to the wall and our high streets transformed forever. Debenhams is struggling, John Lewis has reported the lowest profits ever. Who can blame Marks and Spencer for trying to flog more pants because it's Christmas - they have to take any marketing opportunity that's going.

After Ms Bailey voiced her concern over the window display, a member of the Nottingham Feminist Action Group defaced it with a sign which read 'full human rights!' The protestors were quick to capitalise on the fact that Marks and Spencer pay their female staff less than men, a whopping 12.3%.

Although the board is pretty evenly balanced, men occupy more of the senior management positions, although women make up the majority of the workforce. This is something which the company needs to take swift action to redress.

The women were particularly aggrieved because the display was close to men's 'must have' suits which they said made men seem powerful - and women less so

The reason why Marks and Spencer are aggressively flogging fancy pants, using slogans which (to some) might seem crass - is because they are fighting for survival. Their last set of results showed that food and clothing sales were down, and they have closed 24 stores.

They plan to close another 76 by 2022 in order to streamline the business. Their clothing ranges are too confusing and disparate - they can't decided whether gorgeous Holly Willoughby is their target customer or sensible 75 year old Doris from Harrogate. When they signed up to produce a range with the stick insect known as Alexa Chung, it was a cry for help, a sign they had no idea who bought their merchandise.

When I walk around a Marks and Spencer store, I see women leading men and telling them what to buy. Women of a certain age love shopping there, but they are not going to save Marks and Spencer. When you get over 60, you don't buy a lot because you have reached peak stuff already. How many slipper, cardigans and raincoats does one pensioner need?

Another of our favourite retailers also entered knicker wars recently - John Lewis announced that sales of thongs were booming - thanks to body-flaunting on Love Island. Indeed, the rise was particularly noticeable in Birmingham, where sales have doubled. Of course, this is shameless PR hype, because all retailers are facing a grim truth- knicker sales have declined steadily since 2015, when 330 million pairs were sold in a year. Last year, that figure had dropped to just 311 million.

Clearly, we no longer care what we look like in our underwear. Could sexless washed-out shabby pants be one of the reasons for the decline in sexual activity in the UK?

And does that make the joyless Ms Bailey uncharacteristically happy?

====== 2187 ========

ALEXANDRA SHULMAN'S NOTEBOOK SPECIAL: THERESA MAY HAS FACED CRISIS LIKE ONLY A WOMAN CAN

I never imagined this could happen, but Theresa May reduced me to tears last week. Not because of what she was saying, but because I can’t imagine how she manages to get out of bed each morning with the nightmare she knows is ahead of her from which it is impossible to wake up.

Mrs May has never been easy to warm to. She has about her the dull stolidity of the do-gooder who, even though they are doing the right thing, bores you rigid. What in some people would be applauded as principle, in her is seen as stubbornness.

What in others would be viewed as pragmatism, in her is portrayed as weakness. Her insistence on sticking to her oft-repeated script makes her conviction sound utterly robotic.

But really, after the week that she’s been through, you have to give her a little bit of love – I don’t think she would appreciate a stranger’s hug – for the incredible achievement of being still standing.

May addresses the media inside Number 10 Downing Street last week as she insisted she would not be forced out by her Tory rivals

There must have been one brief, heady moment when she thought it was a wonderful idea to become Prime Minister.

But the past few days, in fact pretty much the whole of the past two years, must have consigned that to the far recesses of memory.

Imagine being barracked so ferociously by a baying mob of MPs that you have to raise your voice to a shriek to be heard in Prime Minister’s Questions. Having to jump to your feet every two minutes during what was effectively a three-hour show trial in Parliament where each questioner, high on the scent of blood, tried to go for the kill.

Standing at a lectern in front of a press conference full of journalists who had no interest in what you’d achieved or were trying to say, only hunger for the gory details of what they hoped might be your imminent demise.

And having to do it all without looking like a bag lady. Lipstick freshly applied, checking that the eye make-up hasn’t trickled into the creases, ensuring that your hair hasn’t gone frizzy and your nail polish hasn’t chipped. Whereas men can appear worn and a bit scruffy after a long night negotiating, in women that kind of thing makes you look as if you are out of control.

Mrs May (pictured with her husband, Philip, in Hamburg) says she will continue to fight for the future of the country as Prime Minister

At a time like this, Mrs May won’t be wanting a single word of the coverage to be about her kitten heels, but she will still need to demonstrate her invincibility by looking immaculately put-together.

Some commentators (usually men) have suggested that, as a woman, the PM will find this relentless criticism, the endless precariousness of her position and the betrayal of those around her particularly unpleasant and hard to take. But that’s far too simplistic. Women are often at their best dealing with a crisis and, if anything, May has demonstrated very feminine characteristics in her stoicism.

Women can handle huge amounts of detail, they do it all the time at home.

They are master of the dull necessities (after her tumultuous Thursday, Mrs May returned home by 9.30pm ‘so I could get the washing on and leave it to dry overnight’) as well as doing their demanding day jobs: being pilots, CEOs, teachers, Prime Minister.

Mrs May has survived by knowing she is in control of the minutiae of the deal – plodding ahead one step at a time instead of getting caught up in the often more alluring ‘big picture’ thinking of men.

She has been able to see the stark reality of what’s in front of her rather than getting lost in the fantastical possibilities dreamt up by her detractors, particularly the men who so often suffer from male pattern blindness – being unable to see what is there in front of them, so busy are they scanning the glorious horizon.

In her elegant tweed jacket and white top with a discreet string of pearls, Mrs May was a picture of calm

She has refused to indulge in bullyboy name-calling or rise to the deeply unpleasant verbal aggression she has been subjected to.

Prince Charles and I haveone thing in common. We both had birthdays last week. I’ve often noticed how many people have birthdays the same day as me but it took me some time to figure out why – Valentine’s Day falls exactly nine months before.

Instead she has attempted to sound gracious and conciliatory even though privately she must have frequently wanted to commit murder. And she’s still found the time to consider a change of jewellery each day.

Most of our recent male Prime Ministers have been intoxicated by the power of high office, treating politics like the most thrilling game in the world. Tony Blair loved to deploy his chess pieces in reckless wars across the globe. David Cameron flung us into the biggest roulette wheel in memory by calling the EU referendum.

But Mrs May, like most women, is not interested in playing the game of power. She just wants to get the job done. Even if the job is impossible.

I believe that she genuinely does think her deal is the best she can achieve for the country and she will continue to try to see it through and take responsibility. In that, she’s acting rather like a parent.

The Prime Minister (pictured in her Downing Street office) is determined to stay the course despite heavy criticism this week

Because, as many mothers know, there are often times when you have doubts about a course of action that you are trying to persuade your child to embark on. But on calculating the odds, it seems to be the best alternative.

As you try to convince your recalcitrant offspring, you certainly don’t indulge in a load of ‘ifs’ and ‘buts’ and ‘on the other hands’. You try your damnedest to appear utterly sure.

But who knows what Mrs May feels like when she gets home at night to Philip after yet another day of battering, another day of trying to herd rats. I was glad to read that on Wednesday night he poured her a large whisky and sorted dinner – even if it was just beans on toast.

I hope he also runs her a bath, listens to her download – and yes, then gives her the biggest hug.

Insult that proves my old heroine's not been beaten by a stroke

Joni Mitchell, the original lady of the canyon, made an appearance at a recent tribute concert – her first since suffering a brain aneurism two years ago. Back in the 1970s, young women like me were captivated by Joni’s inspirational image – that of a beautiful, artistic, vulnerable, love-lorn minstrel who had affairs with all the rock gods of the time.

The truth, however, was somewhat different. Joni, above, was known, by those close to her, to be wildly competitive, tricky, waspish and often sulphurous in her opinions of others.

As she recovered from her stroke, a visiting ex-lover told her of the death of Leonard Cohen, one of her many famous past boyfriends. Her growled response, ‘Not a fan’, reassured him that she was, despite illness, still the same old Joni.

The great divide: nibbles or not

Alison Steadman's dinner party was satirised in Abigail's Party

A friend of mine was bemoaning how she hated ‘nibbles’. ‘They ruin the meal and leave my hands sticky,’ was her verdict.

Some people feel it is rude not to offer guests pre-dinner snacks – quails eggs, salami, mini croque monsieurs, smoked salmon on rye. Others (myself included) think they’re unnecessary and that, having made an effort to produce a main meal, you want guests hungry enough to eat it.

Where you stand on the nibbles debate is one of the great social divides.

We may have come a long way from the days of Beverly, the cheese-and-pineapple-wielding hostess – played by Alison Steadman, above– whose dinner party was satirised in Abigail’s Party, but she still gets the last word. ‘I told you nobody’d like olives, Laurence'.

I’m about to remove a huge lime tree that blocks the sun in our London garden and replace it with something smaller and more decorative.

Long ago I realised that impatience rules me out as one of life’s gardeners and most of my planting decisions are based on how quickly the result can be seen. But there’s something rather splendid about planting a tree which will only reach its prime after I’m long gone.

It’s like giving a gift to the future and I’m taking forever to decide what to select. All suggestions welcome.

====== 2188 ========

HOW BRIGITTE MACRON, 65, ‘WENT A BIT BRITNEY’ AFTER HER ‘BOXY’ OUTFIT CHOICE CHANNELLED US POP STAR

Melania Trump arrives at the Elysee Palace in Paris on Saturday for a meeting with Brigitte Macron

It was the War of the Wives. And I’m afraid America won by an empty head.

At the Elysee Palace in Paris yesterday, as part of Donald Trump’s visit to France to commemorate the Armistice, the First Ladies went into battle.

Not of the bulge – dear me no. Neither has eaten carbs since 1985.

Melania Trump, 48, chose a black wool belted coat dress by Italian luxury label Bottega Veneta (£4,000 – but seriously, if you shop at Bottega you have no need to look at price tags), and sky-high black Louboutin snakeskin cutaway stilettos (£550).

The effect is sober, respectful, and very chic indeed.

Brigitte Macron, 65, on the other hand, chose royal blue (off with her head?), decorated with random brass buttons, by Louis Vuitton (£1,590).

It’s the French label du jour, of course, designed by bad boy Nicolas Ghesquiere, but all I can say is thank the Lord Brigitte eschewed his current penchant for over-the knee boots and trainers, opting for matching court shoes.

But it’s still all a bit too Britney Spears in her ‘Toxic’ period.

The skirt is way too short and boxy, meaning the outfit comes across as reminiscent of the Sixties, which is probably when she was in her prime.

I’m loving, too, Melania’s soft Audrey Hepburn beehive, so much more appropriate than Brigitte’s Heather Locklear homage…

Melania Trump (left) chose a £4,000 black wool belted coat dress by Italian luxury label Bottega Veneta

====== 2189 ========

ETIQUETTE EXPERT ON WHY HARRY AND MEGHAN NEED TO BE LESS TOUCHY FEELY

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex’s first mammoth tour as a married couple has finally ended. Four countries, 76 engagements, over 30 outfits worn and 3,562 public displays of affection.

Aside from 'label-gate', where Meghan was spotted with a label hanging from her dress, or the big baby announcement, what stands out the most from the couple’s Southern Hemispheric sojourn is their continual, incessant touching, hand-holding and hugs.

Whether it was in Fiji, Tonga, New Zealand or Australia there was always a grip of his palm, an arm round her shoulder or a hand in his lap.

Scroll down for video

PDA! During the Duke and Duchess of Sussex's first mammoth tour as a married couple there was always a grip of his palm, an arm round her shoulder, a hand in his lap (Pictured: Meghan and Harry on Bondi Beach on October 19th)

What stands out the most from the couple’s southern hemispheric sojourn is their continual, incessant touching, hand holding and hugs, says Hanson (Pictured: Meghan and Harry at Dubbo City Regional Airport, Australia, on October 17th)

The etiquette expert says Meghan and Harry need to start towing the party line as emotion in the British royal family is rarely shown unless it's to 'a dog or a horse'. (Pictured: The Duke and Duchess of Sussex watching aboriginal dances at Victoria Park in Dubbo, Australia, on October 17th)

We get it, Harry and Meghan. You are in love. Gallant Harry is showing support for royal ingénue Meghan (although I think Meghan does more supporting of Prince Harry, frankly).

The May wedding was really special. We all loved it. We’re thrilled for you both. We tuned in and watched: we were there. No one is denying you aren’t in love.

But let’s start towing the party line, shall we? This is the British royal family. Emotion is rarely shown unless it’s to a dog or a horse. Go and move to Spain if you want to start being over-emotional.

William Hanson, pictured, says he hopes that once Meghan actually became royalty on May 19th the hand-holding would stop

Before the now Duke and Duchess of Sussex wed there was a fair bit of hand-holding on their joint engagements. I didn’t like it but hoped that once Meghan went from commoner to royalty on May 19 that it would stop. (Like when Catherine Middleton’s wave changed from manic to majestic within the space of an hour back in April 2011.)

For a few weeks, it seemed the magic of monarchy had taken hold. But then just to spite those of us who want our royal family to actually be serene and not ‘the Prince and Princess next door’, the hand-holding returned. With a vengeance.

With this latest royal tour was there any daytime engagement where the couple didn’t hold hands?

There is an argument too, royal or not, that couples who feel the need to show off their love in front of others and in public are perhaps the least secure in their relationships. But we’ll park that one there for now.

There is no ‘protocol rule’ that says royalty cannot touch: just precedent and common sense.

Do not forget that royal engagements are professional environments. It’s work. If Harry and Meghan were not who they are and worked for any other ‘firm’, they would not be allowed to walk down the corridors holding hands, cooing over each other.

Royal engagements are professional environments - no other firm would allow a couple to walk down the corridor holding hands and cooing over each other. (Pictured: Harry and Meghan boarding their flight to New Zealand on October 28th)

There is no 'protocol rule' that says royalty cannot touch: just precedent and common sense. (Pictured: The Duke and Duchess at the Auckland War Memorial Museum in New Zealand on October 30th)

I have no issues if they want to hold hands when they are in private, attending social events. Go for it, folks, just not when you are working.

But while the ‘hottest royal couple’ parade around the south pacific their brother and in-law, William and Catherine, grow ever more royal. Although mainly thanks to the Duchess of Cambridge.

Catherine and Meghan are both huge assets to the monarchy, in different ways, but thank heavens we have Catherine as the counterweight.

The Duchess of Cambridge is more royal than the actual blood-royals. On most occasions, she strikes the tone between being friendly yet formal beautifully... William Hanson

The Duchess of Cambridge is more royal than the actual blood-royals. On most occasions, she strikes the tone between being friendly yet formal beautifully.

But a word of warning to all the millennial members of the monarchy: and this includes you Catherine - I saw that hug at the tennis centre earlier this week.

Cut the hugs. I know that for some a grope from the Duchess of Copafeel or a squeeze from the Countess of Cuddles will be a higher honour than being appointed into the Order of the Garter, but, like with the hand holding, it jars.

I have no issues if they want to hold hands when they are in private, attending social events. Go for it, folks, just not when you are working. (Pictured: Prince Harry and Meghan Mrkle at the Abel Tasman National Park in Wellington, New Zealand, on October 29th)

We don't fund them to be like us. If they are just like any other family, then what's the need to subsidise them? Why not give us the funding then, instead? (Pictured: Royal couple on Melbourne South Beach in Australia on October 18th)

For me, royalty should be royal. They are not supposed to be like 'one of us'. They must all be nice people, yes (and they are), but it seems that it's now all a bit too chummy and informal.

I want gilt. I want ermine. I want pomp.

Isn't it also a bit patronising to the rest of us to think that unless they show buckets of false, hollow affection and schmooze the crowds that the throngs won’t cheer and love them?

We all know that royal funding is not the most secure fiscal fixture at the best of times. The more that the royal family behave like your average Joe, the weaker the argument is to give them that funding.

The Duchess of Cambridge, pictured during a visit to Coach Core Essex, is more royal than the actual blood-royals. On most occasions, she strikes the tone between being friendly yet formal beautifully

But a word of warning to all the millennial members of the monarchy: and this includes you Catherine - I saw that hug at the tennis centre earlier this week. Cut the hugs - it jars

We don't fund them to be like us. If they are just like any other family, then what's the need to subsidise them? Why not give us the funding then, instead? It'll play right into the Republic campaign's under-moisturised hands.

We avoid touching them not because they are better than us as people, but because of the ancient office and dynastic institution they represent.

Maybe I am too much of a stick in the mud? Perhaps.

The odd hand-holding here or there may be cute but, like those who over-swear, the more they do it the more diluted and expected it becomes. It must not become a default.

William Hanson co-hosts the weekly podcast Help I Sexted My Boss, available on Apple Podcasts, Spotify and Acast.

====== 2190 ========

FEMAIL’S LORRAINE CANDY REVEALS IN HER LAST COLUMN HOW SHE FINALLY FOUND THE SECRET OF HAVING IT ALL

When I began writing a weekly working mum column for Femail seven years ago, I had three children: Sky, then aged six, Gracie, five, and Henry, two. I also had a demanding job as editor-in-chief of Elle magazine.

We decided to call the column ‘I Don’t Know How I Do It’ as a light-hearted reference to a popular parenting phrase of the time.

Now, despite having four children aged five to 14, and writing this, my last-ever column for this newspaper as I move to a new job, I can honestly say I’m still no nearer to figuring it out.

Lorraine Candy and her family, bidding farewell to her Femail column after 5 years. Pictured (left to right), daughter Gracie, husband James, daughter Mabel, son Henry, Lorraine and oldest daughter Sky

I did it, that’s all I know. And continue to do it. But how well? Well enough, I’d say. And that, believe me, is as good as it gets for all mothers — whatever their circumstances.

Originally, I wanted to call the column ‘All The Rage’, because the ‘struggle to juggle’, with its never-ending to-do lists, schedules and itineraries, always made me cross.

But I was told ‘grumpy mum’ wasn’t the maternal role model anyone wanted to read about. Instead, I decided to write a light-hearted chronicle of my offspring’s growing pains — and mine, too — as we steered the family craft through choppy waters.

What I hadn’t realised when I embarked back in 2009 was that a seismic shift in society’s attitude to mothering was under way.

Experts were telling us that, instead of a newborn fitting into your world, you were expected to build your life around the baby.

This child-centred approach piled extra emotional pressure on all mothers, but I believe working mums — especially those who had to go back to their jobs — felt the stress of it most keenly.

We decided to call the column ‘I Don’t Know How I Do It’ as a light-hearted reference to a popular parenting phrase of the time. Pictured, Lorraine with daughter Mabel

Many of us almost crumbled with the guilt at the possibility of getting it all wrong.

This guilt was the basis of many of my columns — and I know from the reaction from readers that I was not suffering alone.

Like thousands of other mothers, I had sleepless nights over not breastfeeding my children to late toddlerhood, and again over the ever-changing thinking on co-sleeping — sleeping with your baby.

All this was labelled ‘the new Momism’, a parenting style that seemed to bestow hero-like status on being a mother, valuing it above everything else in your life.

