====== 1 ========

GLOBAL NEWS & INTERNATIONAL HEADLINES

Four lions who were born into freezing captivity in terrible conditions in a circus in Ukraine (pictured top) have been rescued and taken to South Africa after traveling nearly 8,000 miles by car and plane (pictured bottom left) to reach their new home. They took their first steps on African soil today (pictured bottom right). Lioness twins Charlie and Kai, four, and their younger sister Luca, three, have only ever known bars and cages since being born into the circus. Nathan, then a tiny lion cub, joined them just over a year ago and also faced a life of captivity and performing for the amusement of humans. But in a heartwarming twist, the lions were rescued by an animal activist, South African expat Lionel De Lange, 53, from the Lawrence Anthony Earth Organization Ukraine (LAEO).To save the lions, he raised nearly £32,000 to fly and drive them nearly 8,000 miles to South Africa.

====== 2 ========

CHRISTOPHER WATTS REPEATEDLY DENIED MURDERING HIS FAMILY DURING VOLUNTARY POLYGRAPH

Chris Watts repeatedly denied murdering his family during a voluntary polygraph, but finally confessed he was 'not a good man' and dumped his daughters' bodies in a 'freakin' oil tank' when told he had failed the test.

Watts, 33, was sentenced to life in prison on Monday for murdering his pregnant wife Shanann, 34, and their two daughters, Bella, four, and Celeste, three.

He finally broke down and said sorry for the murders at the emotional court hearing where he was given three life sentences.

New documents from the investigation reveal that Watts finalized a plan to kill his family at a birthday party then took daughters home for showers, pizza and a snack before murdering them in their beds.

Chris Watts denied murdering his family during a voluntary polygraph but finally confessed he dumped his daughters’ bodies in a ‘freakin' oil tank’when told he had failed the test

Watts maintained that he killed Shannan because she had killed their two children during a police interview and said: 'She hurt them. And then I freaked out and hurt her'

Watts killed his wife and children on August 13 in the early hours of the morning. Their bodies were found inside an oil tank just three days later.

Documents from Frederick Police Department show that Watts had voluntarily consented to a polygraph interview on August 15, which had showed 'deception indicated' when asked if he harmed his family.

'I cheated on her , I'm not proud of it.. she accused me of it.... I denied it…. And I feel horrible for it… like, she was pregnant…. I didn’t hurt her…. I cheated on her…. I hurt her emotionally….', he told FBI Agent Grahm Soder during the interview.

Interviews with Watts took place at Frederick Police Department on August 15 before and after his polygraph test.

The documents obtained by Dailymail.com reveal that Watts only confessed to killing Shannan by strangulation after FBI special agent Grahm Soder informed him that he had failed the polygraph test.

He then claimed that he killed Shannan after she had murdered their two children.

Watts said he'd seen her 'on top of Cece' and 'freaked out and hurt her’.

There has never been any evidence in the case that Shannan hurt the children, or that his claims were anything more than a tactic by Watts to shift blame on his dead wife.

He repeatedly denied harming his family telling Agent Soder: 'If I could have my babies back home right now, I would.... I want them back....I want everybody back.... that is the God's honest truth.

FBI Agent Soder allowed Watts' father Ronnie to speak to him during the interview when he finally admitted that he 'was not a good man' and 'had a lot of rage' because Shannan allegedly hurt the girls.

He also informed him that the polygraph test came back with a 'deception indicated' result.

The crude oil tanks where Watts dumped his daughter's bodies who were still dressed in their nightgowns

A satellite image shows the location where Chris Watts disposed of the bodies of his pregnant wife, Shanann Watts, 34, and their daughters, Bella, 4, and 3-year-old Celeste

He admitted that he dumped his daughters bodies in crude oil tanks and buried Shannon, who was 15 weeks pregnant with their only son, in a shallow grave at a site near his workplace.

When Ronnie asked where the girls were, Chris broke down and said: ‘That – that’s what I feel horrible about... they’re in a freakin’ oil tank… I didn’t know what else to do', the document states.

'Please, God forgive me for everything. I’m not a good man'.

Chris also told Agent Soder and his father, who was present, that Shannan hurt the girls because she was 'unstable, a narcissist and bipolar’.

Asked what made her 'snap', Chris said he believed it was finding out he was having an affair even though he had not admitted his infidelity to her.

'She hurt them. And then I freaked out and hurt her', Watts told his father.

He said that after the murders, he loaded his children's bodies into his truck and drove to the field where he pushed Bella and Celeste through eight-inch holes which led to separate crude oil tanks.

Bella's body was scratched as she was shoved through the hole, Rourke said, and a piece of her blonde hair was found on the door.

Watts then stayed at the work site and behaved normally as co-workers showed up for the day.

Later, when they were all reported missing, he said they were all asleep when he left for work that morning.

Chris said: 'They’re gone, there’s no bringing them back’ when investigators asked if the girls were still alive during the interview.

Watts' mistress, Nichol Kessinger (right) claimed that his financial troubles were the main catalyst for the murders. Prosecutors say Watts (left) wanted to start a new life with her

Watts drove to the field where he pushed Bella and Celeste through eight-inch holes which led to separate crude oil tanks which contained a mixture of oil and water

Chris repeateldy denied hurting his family and said he wanted them home safe. He finally admitted killing Shannan when officers told him he failed a lie detector test

Asked why he dumped the bodies at the site, Chris replied: 'I didn’t know what to do, I didn’t know what to f******g do, like none, none of this made sense… why would she hurt my f*****g girls?'.

Chris also told Agent Soder that everyone knew he was a good man and when finding out that he had killed his wife and buried their bodies, they would say: ‘What the f**k did you do Chris? Why didn’t you just tell the cops to begin with?'.

He claimed the girls were still wearing nightgowns and and were inside 20 foot tanks which contained a mixture of oil and water.

His wife Shannan was wearing just a black or grey t-shirt and underwear when he buried her at another location.

Watts also spoke about his mistress Nichol Kessinger and that he had fallen out of love with his wife because he had fallen in love with her.

Later on in the interview, Chris admitted that he was having an affair with Kessinger and that she took his breath away.

He told Agent Soder: 'I cheated on her, im not proud of it… she accused me of it.. and I feel horrible for it…. She was pregnant… I didn’t hurt her… I cheated on her…I hurt her emotionally’.

Christopher Watts awaits sentencing hearing at the Weld County Courthouse on November 19

Watts' parents Ronnie and Cindy forgave their sons action and documents show Cindy believed Shannan was unstable

Chris had told Kessinger he was going to separate from his wife eventually but 'didn’t know what it was going to look like'.

He was scared to tell her about the pregnancy because he felt like she wouldn’t have gone on a date with him if she knew.

When asked if he was sorry for what he did, Chris responded: 'I wish I wouldn’t have lost control and got on top of Shannan and did that… and then I did that', referring to dumping their bodies at the oil well site.

Watts had said in the interview before the polygraph tests were revealed to him that when the couple had visited Shannan’s family in North Carolina, he told her he didn’t feel the same connection with her anymore.

He told Shannan there was no one else involved. 'This isn’t like somebody came into my life and took me from you,… there's no outside influence coming from this'.

The documents also detailed the couple’s financial woes and he suggested selling the house and splitting the proceeds in half when they separated.

They had filed for bankruptcy two years previously and he knew when the the children returned they would be living pay check to paycheck.

Frank Rzucek, the father of Shanann Watts, center, sobs as the judge talks during Watts sentencing at the Weld County Courthouse on Monday

Sandra Onorati Rzucek and Frank Rzucek listen to the Weld County District Attorney during a press conference and claimed that Watts was a 'monster' for his evil actions

Chris consistently said he wasn’t trying to cover anything up and wanted his wife and children to come home

'If I could have my babies back home right now, I would, I want them back, I want everybody back, that is the God’s honest truth'.

The documents state the coupled had filed for bankruptcy two years previously, he knew when the kids returned they would be living pay check to pay check

The document states that Shannon took out $10,000 from their savings account to catch up on their mortgage payments. He believed the loan was taken out five months before their deaths.

They were three months behind on mortgage payment. Chris said he and Shannon were stressed about their financial situation and almost all of their credit cards were maxed out.

On Monday during his sentencing hearing, Weld County District Attorney Michael Rourke described for the first time how Watts attacked his wife on August 13 after she returned in the early hours of the morning from a business trip.

Shannan Watts had tried to make the marriage work and wanted the couple to go to counselling but Chris wanted to start a new life with his mistress Nichol Kessinger

Bella (far right) got up twice asking when he mother would be home and Chris assured her that she would see Shanann in the morning, before murdering them both

He had been having an affair and she was desperate for their marriage to survive.

Rourke told the court that he had strangled her calmly and had no defensive wounds afterwards.

His motive for killing them, Rourke said, was to start a new life with his mistress Nichol Kessinger.

He told the court: 'He had a desire for a fresh start.

'To begin a relationship with a new love that overpowered all decency and feelings for his wife, his daughters and unborn son.

'While Shanann texted the defendant over and over again in the days leading up to her death, he secreted photos of his girlfriend into his phone and texted her at all hours of the night.

'While Shanann sent him self-help and counseling books, he was searching the internet for secluded vacation spots to take his new love and was researching jewelry.

One was to the school where the girls were supposed to start, telling the school that the girls were being un-enrolled.

He also contacted a realtor to start discussing selling his house and he texted with his girlfriend about their future.

Watts had taken the girls to a birthday party on the afternoon of Sunday, August 12, and while Bella, 4, and Celeste, 3, played in the pool their father started texting co-worker Kodi Roberts.

At 5.06pm that evening, Watts set in motion his plan for disposing of his wife and daughters' bodies, as he texted Roberts that he would be making the drive out to one of the more distant oil fields that was managed by his company, Anadarko Petroleum Corporation.

Watts claimed that he put the girls down before 8pm and that Bella woke up twice, running out to ask when her mom would be returning home.

The young girl's father and soon-to-be-murderer admitted to assuring her that she would see her mother in the morning.

A babysitter, who was the sister of the birthday boy whose party Watts and the girls attended that Sunday, also spoke with an agent with the Colorado Bureau of Investigation.

She said that on Saturday Watts had asked her to watch the children while he attended a Rockies game, though it was later revealed that he was actually on a date with his mistress, Nichol Kessinger.

She had babysat for the girls the previous evening, when Watts had claimed to be attending a Colorado Rockies game.

====== 3 ========

NEW VIDEO SHOWS ALABAMA MALL SHOOTER'S BODY AFTER HE WAS SHOT DEAD BY COPS FOR GUNNING DOWN CHILDREN

The 21-year-old black man killed by police during the Alabama mall shooting was not the gunman, say police who have warned that the shooter is still on the loose.

Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr., the son of a Birmingham cop and a combat engineer in the US Army, was shot dead by officers responding to reports of an active shooter at the Riverchase Galleria on Thanksgiving Day.

An 18-year-old boy was shot twice after getting into a fight with the gunman, and a nearby 12-year-old girl was also injured when struck by a stray bullet.

On Friday evening, Hoover Police Department revealed new evidence showing that Bradford may have been involved in an altercation with the 18-year-old, and at least one other individual, 'he likely did not fire the rounds' that injured the victims.

Investigators now believe that several people were involved in the original fight, which broke out at 9.30pm on Thursday, and it's unclear whether Bradford was attempting to break up the altercation, or if he was involved from the beginning.

Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr., the son of a Birmingham cop and a member of the US Army, was shot dead by officers responding to reports

Video footage from passerby shows the Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr's body laying on the ground in a pool of blood at the Riverchase Galleria in Hoover, Alabama Thursday night

Police says Bradford was fleeing the scene while brandishing a handgun when he was shot and killed by a uniformed Hoover police officer.

Bradford was pronounced dead at the scene at 10.11pm.

The officer involved has been placed on administrative leave.

Hoover police say the evidence, which came from witness statements and crime scene technicians, means that the real gunman is still at-large. A weapon was later recovered from inside the mall's Santa's Village.

Footage taken from inside the mall showed Bradford's body lying in a pool of blood moments after he was shot dead by police.

The video, filmed from within the Footaction store, also captured people frantically shouting for customers to leave the premises where Bradford's body was positioned on its side.

'Everybody out!' one person can be heard yelling.

A weapon was later recovered from inside the mall's Santa's Village

Bradford was a graduate of Holy Family Cristo Rey Catholic High School in Birmingham

Another shouts: 'Let's go! Everybody out of the store.'

Bradford's devastated stepmother, Cynthia Kenniebrew Bradford, hopes to clear her son's name, writing that she was 'sick of all the lies going around.'

'To loose(sic) a mom and dad was a terrible thang(sic), but to loose a innocent child is beyond words. My heart is so heavy right now. RIP EJ.'

Bradford, known to friends and family as E.J., was a graduate of Holy Family Cristo Rey Catholic High School in Birmingham and enlisted in the U.S. Army, his old teacher Carl Dean told the Hoover Sun.

Dean said he didn't believe that Bradford was capable of shooting a teen in the mall.

'He was a super sweet, funny, kind and goodhearted young man who never had a bad word to say to anyone' Dean said. 'When I saw this morning that he was allegedly involved in causing the tragedy at the mall last night, I was shocked and in disbelief as well as heartbroken that this young man is no longer with us.'

Witnesses told WBRC in Alabama that the shooting happened 'between JCPenney and Footaction near the food court.'

Bradford's stepmother, Cynthia Kenniebrew Bradford, shared this family photo in a post where she wrote how she was devastated to lose her son

Mother April Pipkins posted on her Facebook page an image of herself with the victim Friday

Police on Friday revealed new evidence suggesting 'he likely did not fire the rounds' that injured the victims

Cops say a fight broke out between multiple people, which escalated quickly.

Hoover police Capt. Gregg Rector said: 'During the fight, one of the males produced a handgun and shot the other male twice in the torso.

'Two uniformed Hoover police officers providing security at the mall were in close proximity and heard the gunshots.

'While moving toward the shooting scene, one of the officers encountered a suspect brandishing a pistol and shot him. That individual, a 21-year-old male from Hueytown, was pronounced dead on the scene.'

Bradford, 21, (left and right) is reported to have enlisted in the US Army after school and was described by an old teacher as 'super sweet, funny, kind and goodhearted'

Hi mother said she wanted to clear his name and was 'sick of all the lies going around'

Social media users criticized the way the incident was initially handled by police

A friend said Bradford didn't have a 'bad trait about him' and was 'murdered wrongly'

Both victims were taken to hospitals and are expected to survive. The 12-year-old girl, named by family as Molly Davis, was shot once and was reported to be 'alert' and 'talking' by WBRC Friday afternoon.

Julie Moore Bennett, the mother of Molly, posted on social media that her daughter - who was shopping with family - didn't immediately realize the pain in her back was from a bullet.

'She was hurting a lot, but very brave and positive as always,' the Washington Post reports she wrote after visiting her in hospital.

The 18-year-old has not been named.

By 6am the mall back reopened for Black Friday shopping.

The shooting sparked horror and panic among the crowds of bargain hunters who had flocked to the mall after Thanksgiving dinner to snap up discounts.

Videos posted to social media showed shoppers fleeing in terror as shots rang out at the mall following a fight between a young gunman and a teenage boy

An 18-year-old was taken to hospital in a 'serious' condition while a 12-year-old girl had to have emergency surgery

An image posted to Twitter in the aftermath of the shooting

They took to social media in confusion to describe hearing shots in the mall. It was unclear at first if it was an intended mass shooter.

Photos and videos of the mass panic caused by the shooting were shared on social media.

One Twitter user said: 'I'm in the parking lot of the Riverchase Galleria in Alabama where a shooting just happened.

'I'm so shaky right now I'm sorry if I don't make any sense. The suspect is dead. My prayers go out to those injured.'

Mall staff later tweeted: 'We are devastated by the incident that happened tonight in our shopping center.

'We are working closely with the Hoover Police Department and are grateful for their swift action to contain the situation.

'While there is no current danger to our community, the shopping center will remain closed until further notice.'

Hoover Police Chief Nick Derzis said on Thursday night: 'They heard the gunfire, they engaged the subject and they took out the threat.'

====== 4 ========

JUDGE REJECTS TRUMP CLAIM HE CAN'T BE SUED BECAUSE HE'S PRESIDENT, AFTER 'CHARITY FUNDS ON CAMPAIGN'

A New York state judge rejected President Donald Trump's request to dismiss a lawsuit after he'd earlier claimed that under the US Constitution he can't be sued because he was the leader of the United States.

Justice Saliann Scarpulla of the state supreme court in Manhattan on Friday rebuked a motion from his lawyer Alan Futerfas that accused the state's Attorney General Barbara Underwood, a Democrat, of 'pervasive bias' for suing.

After a 21-month probe, Underwood came to the conclusion POTUS had been misusing funding of the Donald J. Trump Foundation to help his 2016 presidential campaign and his various businesses.

New York Attorney General Barbara Underwood sued Trump and his adult children Donald Jr, Eric and Ivanka June 14 for misusing Donald J. Trump Foundation funds

Underwood said in the filing the Trumps used the charity to advance his 2016 campaign

Claims against Trump and his adult children Donald Jr, Eric and Ivanka from the original filing on June 14 include breach of fiduciary duty, improper self-dealing, and misuse of assets belonging to the Foundation.

By suing, the attorney aims to recover $2.8million that Trump is said to have raised for military veterans at an event in Iowa in 2016 but gave his campaign control over.

It's also believed $100,000 from the charity may have been used to settle a dispute involving Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida, and $10,000 for a portrait of Trump that was later hung at one of his golf clubs.

Underwood's spokesperson Amy Spitalnick tweeted that the lawsuit showed how 'the Trump Foundation functioned as a personal piggy bank to serve Trump's business & political interests'.

Trump faces many investigations, and many lawsuits by Democratic-led or Democratic-leaning states including New York.

It's also believed $100,000 from the charity may have been used to settle a dispute involving Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida (pictured)

Dispute involves a $10,000 for a portrait of Trump that was later hung at one of his golf clubs

Apprentice contestant Summer Zervos is one of at least a dozen women who accused Trump of sexual misconduct. Trump denied he forced himself on her in 2007.

'In accordance with Clinton V. Jones and Zervos V. Trump, I find that I have jurisdiction over Mr. Trump and deny Respondents' motion to dismiss the petition against him on jurisdictional grounds,' she wrote.

The judge denied Trump's request for discovery of evidence from the other party in the case.

The AG seeks to dissolve the foundation and ban the Trumps from leadership roles at charities due to 'extensive unlawful political coordination' between the foundation and campaign.

The White House was not immediately available for comment, Reuters reported.

However Alan Futerfas, a lawyer for the defendants, said the decision meant only that the case would go forward.

Justice Saliann Scarpulla (right) said the US Constitution did not immunize Trump and threw out a motion to dismiss the case from Underwood (left)

Apprentice contestant Summer Zervos' case against Trump recently advanced

'As we have maintained throughout, all of the money raised by the Foundation went to charitable causes to assist those most in need. As a result, we remain confident in the ultimate outcome of these proceedings,' Futerfas said in an email.

In her 27-page decision, Scarpulla called New York's lawsuit 'replete' with allegations that foundation funds were misused, including at Trump's direction.

She also said the state sufficiently alleged that Trump's actions were willful and intentional, citing allegations that he and his campaign arranged for the foundation to cut checks, helping generate 'vote-getting publicity that Mr Trump would have otherwise paid for himself.'

The defendants have been trying to dissolve the foundation, and for this reason Scarpulla refused to issue an injunction barring the Trumps from running it.

Underwood welcomed Scarpulla's decision.

'The Trump Foundation functioned as little more than a checkbook to serve Mr Trump's business and political interests,' Underwood said in a statement. 'There are rules that govern private foundations - and we intend to enforce them.'

Trump used Twitter to call Underwood's lawsuit a concoction by 'sleazy New York Democrats'

POTUS pledged not to settle when he posted the tweets in June

He had used Twitter to call Underwood's lawsuit a concoction by 'sleazy New York Democrats,' and pledged not to settle.

Trump tweeted in June: 'The sleazy New York Democrats, and their now disgraced (and run out of town) A.G. Eric Schneiderman, are doing everything they can to sue me on a foundation that took in $18,800,000 and gave out to charity more money than it took in, $19,200,000. I won’t settle this case!..

'...Schneiderman, who ran the Clinton campaign in New York, never had the guts to bring this ridiculous case, which lingered in their office for almost 2 years. Now he resigned his office in disgrace, and his disciples brought it when we would not settle.'

====== 5 ========

DIDDY ATTENDS PRIVATE VIEWING OF 'SOULMATE' KIM PORTER DAY BEFORE FUNERAL AFTER SHARING PRAYER VIDEO

He's been devastated by the sudden death a week ago of Kim Porter, the mother of three of his children.

And on Friday, Diddy was seen entering a funeral home in Columbus, Georgia, for a private viewing of the late model ahead of her funeral on Saturday.

The rap mogul, 49, was accompanied by another man and the somber pair held hands as they arrived.

Scroll down for video

Diddy was seen entering a funeral home in Columbus, Georgia, on Friday for a private viewing of Kim Porter, the mother of three of his children, who died suddenly a week ago

Diddy was dressed in a fur-trimmed coat over a suit and sported dark glasses.

Kimora Lee Simmons, who'd been photographed in tears after learning of her close friend Porter's passing on November 15, was also at the funeral home where she lit candles on the front porch.

Porter's funeral will take place at Cascade Hills Church in her hometown and it's believed singers Mary J. Blige and Faith Evans are set to perform during the service.

The rap mogul, 49, who wore a fur-trimmed coat over a suit and dark glasses, was accompanied by another man and the somber pair held hands as they arrived

There was a security presence at the location and other family and friends coming and going

Porter's funeral will take place at Cascade Hills Church in her hometown and it's believed singers Mary J. Blige and Faith Evans are set to perform during the service

Tragic: Porter, 47, who had a 13-year on/off relationship with Diddy, passed away at her home in Los Angeles on November 15. She is pictured with the singer and record producer in 2005

Porter's extended family also issued a statement on Friday in which they described her as 'a loving mother and devoted friend'.

'Although we’ve lost our best friend, God has gained a special angel and we know she is watching over us,' the statement said.

'God broke the mold when he made Kim, there was truly no other woman like her. Although her time here on earth was far too short, she lived a life full of purpose and meaning.'

The statement from the Porter, Goodwin and Combs families continued: 'She was the epitome of kindness and grace. There wasn’t a person she met whose soul she did not touch.'

'Kim was the type of woman who changed lives for the better. She will be forever remembered and missed by so many. As her family, we promise to honor her every day of our lives. We love you always.'

Kimora Lee Simmons, who'd been photographed in tears after learning of her friend Porter's passing on November 15, was also at the funeral home where she lit candles on the front porch

Porter's extended family also issued a statement on Friday in which they described her as 'a loving mother and devoted friend'

'Although we’ve lost our best friend, God has gained a special angel and we know she is watching over us,' the families' statement said

Before his visit to the funeral home, Diddy gave a glimpse into his state of mind as he shared on Instagram an old video in which he's saying a prayer.

In the caption, the rapper and record producer wrote: 'This is I prayer I said like a year ago. God help us. Love to all.' (sic)

In the selfie clip he looks straight into the camera as he sits in front of a large window.

'I've been through some dark times...,' he began.

'There's a lot of people out there in that darkness today, in that lost place today, in that place where you feel stuck.... where you don't know what to do next.'

God's help: He's been devastated by the sudden death of Porter and on Friday, Diddy gave a glimpse into his state of mind as he shared an old video in which he says a prayer

Shared a prayer: In the selfie clip he looks straight into the camera as he sits in front of a large window. 'I've been through some dark times...,' he began

'That means you have to get closer to Him. That means you have to say His name. That means you have to ask Him for help: 'God help me, God help me, God help me'.'

As the video continues, Diddy, 49, prays: 'God bless us all today ...show them the way, show them the light. You are the light.'

'I'm not your preacher, I'm just your brother,' he explained. 'Just sending you love and praying for everybody who can hear me. God bless.'

Sad: The couple shared 11-year-old twins Jessie James and D'Lila and son Christian, 20, and in a tweet, Diddy said they had been 'more than soulmates'

Porter, the mother of three of Diddy's children, passed away at her home in Los Angeles on November 15.

She and the singer had dated on and off for 13 years, and in a tweet, Diddy said they had been 'more than soulmates'.

They shared 11-year-old twin girls Jessie James and D'Lila, 11, and a son Christian, 20.

Porter also had a son Quincy, 27, from her marriage to Al B. Sure!

She died after suffering from a bout of pneumonia but her exact cause of death is unknown. The model's death certificate, which was obtained by The Blast, lists her cause of death as 'deferred.'

Diddy joined Porter and their three children along with her son Quincy Brown (fourth from left) from her marriage to singer Al B. Sure!, at a screening in LA on October 30

On Monday, Diddy shared some videos from inside his Bel Air mansion of the intimate memorial for his ex and mother of three of his children.

Huge framed photos of the model lined the steps of the rap mogul's home, flanked by lit candles.

The Bad Boy head honcho spent much of Sunday and Monday posting photo after photo of himself and Porter on social media.

In one emotional post, he poured out his heart to his late love.

'For the last three days I’ve been trying to wake up out of this nightmare. But I haven’t,' Diddy wrote on Instagram.

'I don’t know what I’m going to do without you baby. I miss you so much. Today I’m going to pay tribute to you, I’m going to try and find the words to explain our unexplainable relationship,' he said.

Missed: Huge framed photos of the model lined the steps of the rap mogul's home, flanked by lit candles in a shrine he created for Porter and that he shared on social media

Meanwhile, Lil' Kim took to Instagram on Thursday to pay tribute to Porter.

The rapper, 44, confessed that she struggled to 'put into words' how special Porter was.

'Oh my Kim. There are so many memories with the family and although you were talented at many things, you had one of the major roles and held down the family like none other,' she wrote on Thanksgiving.

'With today being about family, I can’t help but honor this amazing woman and the family. Hold your family tight a little longer today. I will always be there for my extended family. Thanks for all of your prayers ❤️ Rest in Paradise Kim Porter.'

====== 6 ========

MODEL MIRANDA KERR SAYS SHE'S NOT IN A RUSH TO BE 'SWIMSUIT' READY AFTER BIRTH OF SON

Supermodel and entrepreneur Miranda Kerr gave birth to her second son, Hart, in May this year.

And now, the stunning Australian-born beauty, 35, says women shouldn't feel any pressure to 'snap into shape after a baby.'

Speaking in the upcoming January issue of Marie Claire magazine, Miranda talked about the importance of women being positive about their bodies.

Scroll down for video

'It might take 10 months or never': Supermodel Miranda Kerr (above) has said she's in no rush to be swimsuit ready after the birth of her son Hart in May earlier this year

'It's really important as women that we're gentle with ourselves and don't feel like we have to snap into shape after a baby,' Miranda told the publication.

She added: I took nine months - well, 10 months - to grow a beautiful child and it might take 10 months to feel good in a swimsuit again. Or longer. Or never.'

Glamorous Miranda added how much she adored motherhood - as well as being mother to Hart, the stunning brunette also has another son Flynn, 7.

'It might take 10 months to feel good in a swimsuit again. Or longer. Or never': The supermodel was candid in her remarks on her post-baby body

'I love being a mum. It's just the most rewarding thing,' she added.

Recently, Miranda has been focused on her skincare brand KORA Organics.

It was first founded in 2006 before being launched three years later.

In October, the brand was launched in Canada, Malaysia, The Philippines, Germany, Spain, Italy and Austria via 70 Sephora stores.

The glamorous beauty described it as a 'pinch me' moment after it launched in the American market last year.

====== 7 ========

KHLOE KARDASHIAN REVEALS WHY SHE DIDN'T ATTEND FAMILY THANKSGIVING

Khloe Kardashian is clapping back at critics saying she is fighting with her family.

The reality star, 34, took to her Twitter on Friday after fans questioned why she was not at the Kardashian family Thanksgiving dinner in Los Angeles.

'Y’all are reaching now. I’ve spent the past 3 years in Cleveland for Thanksgiving. Not sure why people are trying to create drama between my family and I,' she began.

Clap back: Khloe Kardashian, 34, took to her Twitter on Friday after fans questioned why she was not at the Kardashian family Thanksgiving dinner in Los Angeles; pictured with Tristan Thompson and daughter True

'My sisters and I are perfectly fine thank you! All of their families were able to travel but TT being in season, he can not,' Khloe continued.

She added: 'The truth is never as fun as some story some of you like to create. So here we goooooooooooo!! Happy Thanksgiving I guess lol'

Khloe took baby True to Cleveland for her first Thanksgiving and gave a sneak peek inside their celebration with fans on Instagram.

Tristan also documented part of the day on an Instagram live video. Khloe was dressed in a stylish pink and purple outfit, but appeared subdued.

The reach is real: 'Y’all are reaching now. I’ve spent the past 3 years in Cleveland for Thanksgiving. Not sure why people are trying to create drama between my family and I,' she began

Truth tea: 'My sisters and I are perfectly fine thank you! All of their families were able to travel but TT being in season, he can not,' Khloe continued

She had earlier told fans that she had spent the morning 'cooking my heart out' and dubbed herself 'Chef Koko'.

It has been claimed that in recent weeks she's decided not to 'define' their relationship and will only refer to him as 'True's dad'.

An insider told E!: 'Tristan's schedule worked out so they could spend Thanksgiving together in Cleveland.

'It's True's first Thanksgiving and Khloe wants to celebrate it as a family. It's very important to her that True has her own family traditions and is with both her mom and dad.'

Put her daughter first: Khloe Kardashian took daughter True to Cleveland to spend Thanksgiving with Tristan Thompson

'Cooking my heart out': Khloe, or 'Chef Koko' as she called herself, spent the morning preparing the Thanksgiving feast

Food glorious food: Khloe shared a glimpse inside their celebration

Message for her fans: Khloe took to Twitter to spread the love

But Khloe is reportedly still unsure about moving to Cleveland from Los Angeles full time, after finding it 'hard' dealing with the basketball player's alleged infidelity.

The source added: 'She is still very happy in L.A. with her family support and the thought of being back in Cleveland by herself is unsettling.

Sweet treat: The dessert buffet was a mouth-watering sight

'She isn't making long-term plans and is just taking it little by little and seeing what happens.

'He's very conflicted and tries her best to stay focused on True and all the joys of motherhood.

'It's complicated with Tristan, but he's True's dad and that's what matters most to Khloe.'

Khloe's family, including her mom Kris Jenner, are celebrating Thanksgiving in Los Angeles.

Ready to eat: Khloe shared a look at her plate, which included mac and cheese, green beans and of course, turkey

Kim Kardashian recently revealed it has been difficult for Khloe and Tristan to watch this season, which covers how he cheated on her just days before she gave birth to their child True.

Kim told Ellen Degeneres this week: 'It is awkward, especially for maybe Tristan, who isn't used to this.'

'Unfortunately, that was what's going on in our lives. Six months later it replays, and they've gotten through what they needed to get through, and it's rehashed in front of everyone, and everyone's giving their opinions all over again, and we're live tweeting, and everyone's chiming in.'

But, says Kim, while it can be hard, there are positives from the experience.

'That is hard for Khloé and I'm sure for Tristan, but it's our reality, and we've learned to kind of use it as a therapy, just to kind of get it out one last time with everyone else.'

Family: Khloe and Tristan, seen with daughter True, worked through their issues, and are now reliving them on TV

====== 8 ========

CARDI B SHOWCASES HER SLIM BODY IN SKIMPY BLACK BRA AND PANTIES DURING SCINTILLATING VIDEO

She gave birth to her first child Kulture in July.

And Cardi B has been hard at work getting her post-pregnancy body back in shape as she posted a revealing video to her Instagram on Friday.

The 26-year-old Bodak Yellow songstress flaunted her flawless figure in a black bra and panties as she promoted a weight loss drink.

Hard at work: Cardi B has been hard at work getting her post-pregnancy body back in shape as she posted a revealing video to her Instagram on Friday

She captioned the scintillating flick: The BEST f**kingggg black friday deal. If you spend you $$$ on ANYTHING it better be Teami. Thankful to be a #teamipartner and getting this momma bear bod right!!'

During the video, the talented hip hop artist said she did not 'have lyposuction' but worked hard' to get back her 'stripper body'.

Meanwhile, the rapper is having an uncommon issue with her post-pregnancy body.

'I've been very depressed because I cannot stop losing weight,' she said, on Instagram Live last week.

Flaunt it: Bodak Yellow songstress flaunted her flawless figure in a black bra and panties as she promoted a weight loss drink.

Promote it: She captioned the scintillating flick: The BEST f**kingggg black friday deal. If you spend you $$$ on ANYTHING it better be Teami. Thankful to be a #teamipartner and getting this momma bear bod right!!'

'And it's so crazy because when I first gave birth, I did everything to lose my baby weight. I was drinking Teami [tea] so it could curb my appetite and now that I lost all the baby weight...I don't like looking too skinny.'

She said this isn't the first time she's had this problem.

'I used to look too skinny as a teenager and I used to hate it and I hate it now,' she said. 'It's been really depressing me, making me sad. My weight. You know what I'm saying.'

In her Instagram Live video the rapper also gushed about her baby's looks, saying Kulture: 'is just too gorgeous.... They took my best egg.

Birth news: She gave birth to her first child Kulture in July

'Her lips is crazy... her lips is a mix of Offset, [Cardi's sister] Hennessy and Rihanna's lips. This might be Rihanna's baby.

'She's just so exotic looking. She just like...I don't know. She don't even look like me. Then her eyes, they just so. Wow! They so big. And it's like, what the hell? I don't got big eyes and Daddy don't have big eyes... she looks like a doll.'

The I Like It hitmaker is known for her bold outfits but she insists she won't be making changes to her style now she's a mom.

Back to shape: During the video, the talented hip hop artist said she did not 'have lyposuction' but 'worked hard' to get back her 'stripper body'

Asked if she plans to change her style since she had a baby, she said: 'Not at all. I don't feel like I gotta change my style because I had a baby. I feel like the only time I should change my style is if I have my baby on me.

'Like, no I don't want to wear a god damn thong and walk around my baby. But I don't feel like I gotta change.'

And the rapper was 'very nervous' about releasing her own fashion line.

Lsing it: 'I've been very depressed because I cannot stop losing weight,' she said, on Instagram Live last week

She added to Entertainment Tonight: 'I'm actually very nervous because I hope that people like my collection. I know it's a little bit different and I know people was not expecting what I was gonna drop. So I hope it does good. I'm about to see so many people, so many celebrities, so it's like oh snappity, snap, snap! ... It feels really amazing [to have star support].

'A lot of people think it's supposed to be a catty thing, and it just feels good. When other women show love to each other, and they don't know how much that means to me though. One day they might need a kidney and I might give you mine and I barely drink, so mine might be good.'

However, there was no reason for her anxiety as the first collection sold out in the same day that it launched.

====== 9 ========

ARIANA GRANDE AND PETE DAVIDSON GET COORDINATING POST BREAK-UP TATTOOS

He got her signature bunny ears tattooed onto his neck while she had his name inscribed onto her finger.

But now Ariana Grande and her ex Pete Davidson have covered up the tattoos they received during their engagement with coordinating designs.

Ariana covered up her 'Pete' tattoo with a black heart - the same shape the SNL actor opted for when hiding his neck artwork.

Heart to heart: Ariana Grande and her ex Pete Davidson have covered up the tattoos they received during their engagement with coordinating designs

New familiar ink: Fans noticed Ariana covered up her 'Pete' tattoo with a black heart - the same shape the SNL actor opted for when hiding his neck artwork

In a teaser pic from her upcoming music video — aptly titled Thank U, Next — Ariana's new look digit is clearly visible.

Amid their whirlwind romance the former couple are believed to have gotten at least eleven tattoos between them, either matching or honoring the other.

But since the split, they have been slowly working their way back through the 'permanent' tokens, either altering or covering them up.

The 'reborn' tat that once ran along her thumb, for example, was last month replaced by an olive branch.

Personal: Grande had Pete's first name inked onto her left ring finger

Out with the old: Davidson had Grande's bunny ears tattooed onto his neck

The 'Pete' on her finger was one of the first to be shunned, as the singer almost immediately started wearing a band aid over it.

They have a long way to go before they reverse all of the artwork, however.

They both also had matching clouds on their fingers, and matching H2GKMO — an acronym for Ariana's favorite 'Honest to God, knock me out' catchphrase — on their right thumbs.

Semi-permanent: Amid their whirlwind romance the former couple are believed to have gotten at least eleven tattoos between them, either matching or honoring the other

She had an 8418 tattooed on her foot to match the one Pete already had on his arm, in honor of his late firefighter father who was killed on 9/11, while he had 'Mille Tendresse' — a thousand tendernesses au Francais — to match the one she already had on the back of her neck.

Pete also has the initials AG on his finger that will need to be dealt with.

The couple split this month after a five month engagement, and six month relationship total.

She reportedly returned the $100k engagement ring, but kept the pet pig — Piggie Smalls — they adopted together.

====== 10 ========

CHRIS WATTS PLOTTED TO KILL FAMILY AT A BIRTHDAY PARTY THEN FED AND SHOWERED GIRLS BEFORE MURDERS

New documents from the Chris Watts murder investigation reveal shocking details about the final hours of his two young daughters, Bella and Celeste.

Watts had taken the girls to a birthday party on the afternoon of Sunday, August 12, and while Bella, 4, and Celeste, 3, played in the pool their father started texting co-worker Kodi Roberts.

At 5.06pm that evening, Watts set in motion his plan for disposing of his wife and daughters' bodies, as he texted Roberts that he would be making the drive out to one of the more distant oil fields that was managed by his company, Anadarko Petroleum Corporation.

It is also where the bodies of Shanann, Bella and Celeste were discovered just days after they went missing.

Scroll down for video

Innocents: Chris Watts had selected the burial site for his daughters Bella, and Celeste, 3, hours before their deaths while at a birthday party with the girls (Bella on left and Celeste on right)

Guilty: He texted a co-worker on Sunday at 5pm informing the man he would be making a trip to a distant oil field, the same one where his family's bodies were found (watts above being sentenced on Monday)

Watts, per his own admission in interviews with law enforcement officials, then took his daughters home, gave them both showers, fed them pizza and got them each a snack before putting them to bed.

He noted that both girls were eager to see their mother, who was due to return home late that night.

Hours later, the girls and their mother Shannan were all murdered in the house, and their bodies disposed of at Cervi 6-29.

Shanann's father was one of the last people to see the girls, revealing he spoke to them on FaceTime on Sunday evening.

Frank Rzucek stated in an interview with law enforcement officials that he spoke with both Watts and Bella, who was eating cold pizza and candy.

He made no mention of seeing Celeste.

Watts claimed that he put the girls down before 8pm and that Bella woke up twice, running out to ask when her mom would be returning home.

The young girl's father and soon-to-be-murderer admitted to assuring her that she would see her mother in the morning.

A babysitter, who was the sister of the birthday boy whose party Watts and the girls attended that Sunday, also spoke with an agent with the Colorado Bureau of Investigation.

She said that on Saturday Watts had asked her to watch the children while he attended a Rockies game, though it was later revealed that he was actually on a date with his mistress, Nichol Kessinger.

She had babysat for the girls the previous evening, when Watts had claimed to be attending a Colorado Rockies game.

The babysitter said that while watching the girls Shannan called at 7.50pm to check on the children' while she was away and later posted a photo.

There was nothing remarkable that happened that night save for Watts returning home at 10.30pm, later than he had promised to be back at the house.

It was also her first time babysitting for the family, with the normal sitter who is a close friend of Shannon's not called in for reasons that are not stated in the reports.

Monster: Bella got up twice asking when he mother would be home and Chris assured her that she would see Shanann in the morning, before murdering them both (Watts family above)

Watts set up the babysitter the night before by texting her father, stating: 'Do you think McKenna is available to watch the girls for a few hours tomorrow night? I won a raffle at work for a Rockies game. lt's with people I don't know from work, but I haven't been to a game in a while where the kids aren't involved and only last an inning lol.'

The babysitter did have a different version of events as to what happened the following day though, saying that Watts left the party much earlier than he told authorities.

'[The babysitter] stated the following day, Sunday August 12, 2018, Chris, Celeste and Bella came to her home for a birthday party for her younger brother,' reads the CBI report.

'Celeste and Bella are friends of her younger brother. [The babysitter] recalled Chris and his daughters left her home at about 3.30pm.'

Watts' co-worker Roberts later told the an agent with the Colorado Bureau of Investigation that it was 'unusual' that Watts had texted him on a weekend, and stated that he did arrive to the site alone on Monday morning.

Watts' mistress, Nichol Kessinger (above) claimed that his financial troubles were the main catalyst for the murders. Prosecutors say he wanted to start a new life with her, though

That day he did not seem to be out of sorts according to Roberts, but did make multiple trips to his car.

Unbeknownst to Roberts, he had just buried his wife in a shallow grave and dumped his daughters in an oil tank.

After strangling his wife with his hands and smothering Bella and Celeste last August, Watts loaded their bodies into his truck.

He spent a normal day at work and frequently texted his girlfriend, even as police began investigating his family's disappearance.

He made calls to a real estate agent about selling the family home and told the girls' school that they would not enroll that fall as planned.

Within days, he was charged with killing his family.

The girls' bodies were found submerged in separate oil tanks on property owned by his employer. His wife's body was found in a shallow grave nearby.

As a prosecutor detailed the injuries at Monday's hearing, Shanann Watts' father leaned forward, gasping.

Christopher Watts' parents were permitted to speak at the hearing as the girls' grandparents. Cindy and Ronnie Watts urged their son to use his reprieve from a death sentence to make a full confession.

'We hope that he embraces that moment,' the couple's attorney said.

Rourke doubts that moment will ever come.

'Those are the questions that will always haunt anyone who was involved in the investigation,' he said.

'I don't think there is ever going to be a satisfactory answer for anyone.'

====== 11 ========

CHRIS WATTS' WIFE HAD BEEN PLANNING A ROMANTIC GETAWAY TO TRY AND SAVE HER MARRIAGE BEFORE MURDER

Documents from the investigation into the murder of Shanann Watts reveal that she was planning a romantic getaway in the days before she was murdered by her husband Chris.

A search of her phone that was conducted after her body was recovered found that Shanann had been on GroupOn searching for a way to afford a cheap weekend escape for the couple.

On the night before her death she even lined up the child care for the weekend, getting the babysitter who was watching her daughters Bella and Celeste on Saturday to return the following Friday ahead of the woman who would be spending the weekend with the girls.

At the same time, Watts was with his mistress Nichol Kessinger discussing his next steps and the apartment he planned to get when he separated from his wife.

He had told Shanann he was at a baseball game, but her suspicions had grown so strong that she told friends of her plan to confront her husband when she returned from her work trip in Arizona.

Scroll down for video

Happier times: Shanann Watts was planning a romantic getaway for herself and husband Chris (above) to try and repair their marriage in the days before her murder

Watts' mistress, Nichol Kessinger (above) claimed that his financial troubles were the main catalyst for the murders. Prosecutors say he wanted to start a new life with her, though

In a text sent to her friend Ady, Shannon wrote out the entire speech she planned to deliver on Monday, after she had returned home and gotten some rest.

'Can you please tell me something, because just like you, I'm in my head? I try to fix things and make them better and this is making me crazy. I know that you need time. I want to give you what you're asking for and respect your space, I need some time. This place that I'm in, in my head, is not a good place,' read the text.

'lt is not healthy for me, or Niko. I need you to help me help you. I need you to give just a little bit of what I did, or didn't do, so t,m not going crazy in my head to figure it out. I know I can't fix this by myself; that, we are going to have to work together.'

She then got on a plane and was not heard from again after her friend dropped her off at home.

Watts would later send a text to her phone just before 8am asking where she was, shortly after he buried her body in a shallow grave.

He then looked up the lyrics to a Metalica, called the school his girls were set to enroll in and told them that they would not be attending and called up a hotel in Aspen.

It is unclear if he was trying to cover himself with that move or use the trip as a romantic getaway for himself and his mistress.

By noon multiple people were asking about Shanann's whereabouts, and to one inquiry Watts responded: 'l just talked to Nicki. Shanann went to a friend's house with the kids today. I haven't heard from her since. I will keep you updated though.'

The situation grew increasingly fraught over the next few hours texts show, with Watts imploring people not to contact the police.

The friend who dropped watts off was the most concerned, writing at one point: 'l have been to your house you won't open your door, your alarm is set, your shoes are sitting inside, your car's home, lam so very concerned about you right now. I need you to text me or call me and just tell me OK. lf you don't wanna talk to nobody, you don't wanna be around nobody, I get it, its fine, but I need to know you're OK.'

Soon after a number of Shanann's friends texted one another that Watts was likely behind his wife's disappearance.

This was 24 hours after Watts set his plan in motion.

Off to prison: She managed to organize a weekend away in Aspen that was scheduled for days after she was murdered by Chris

Watts had taken the girls to a birthday party on the afternoon of Sunday, August 12, and while Bella, 4, and Celeste, 3, played in the pool their father started texting co-worker Kodi Roberts.

At 5.06pm that evening, Watts set in motion his plan for disposing of his wife and daughters' bodies, as he texted Roberts that he would be making the drive out to one of the more distant oil fields that was managed by his company, Anadarko Petroleum Corporation.

It is also where the bodies of Shanann, Bella and Celeste were discovered just days after they went missing.

Watts, per his own admission in interviews with law enforcement officials, then took his daughters home, gave them both showers, fed them pizza and got them each a snack before putting them to bed.

He noted that both girls were eager to see their mother, who was due to return home late that night.

Hours later, the girls and their mother Shannan were all murdered in the house, and their bodies disposed of at Cervi 6-29.

Shanann's father was one of the last people to see the girls, revealing he spoke to them on FaceTime on Sunday evening.

Frank Rzucek stated in an interview with law enforcement officials that he spoke with both Watts and Bella, who was eating cold pizza and candy.

He made no mention of seeing Celeste.

Watts claimed that he put the girls down before 8pm and that Bella woke up twice, running out to ask when her mom would be returning home.

The young girl's father and soon-to-be-murderer admitted to assuring her that she would see her mother in the morning.

A babysitter, who was the sister of the birthday boy whose party Watts and the girls attended that Sunday, also spoke with an agent with the Colorado Bureau of Investigation.

She said that on Saturday Watts had asked her to watch the children while he attended a Rockies game, though it was later revealed that he was actually on a date with his mistress, Nichol Kessinger.

She had babysat for the girls the previous evening, when Watts had claimed to be attending a Colorado Rockies game.

The babysitter said that while watching the girls Shannan called at 7.50pm to check on the children' while she was away and later posted a photo.

There was nothing remarkable that happened that night save for Watts returning home at 10.30pm, later than he had promised to be back at the house.

It was also her first time babysitting for the family, with the normal sitter who is a close friend of Shannon's not called in for reasons that are not stated in the reports.

Innocents: While she was planning this trip, Chris was with his mistress Nichol Kessinger and talking about moving out of his home

Watts set up the babysitter the night before by texting her father, stating: 'Do you think McKenna is available to watch the girls for a few hours tomorrow night? I won a raffle at work for a Rockies game. lt's with people I don't know from work, but I haven't been to a game in a while where the kids aren't involved and only last an inning lol.'

The babysitter did have a different version of events as to what happened the following day though, saying that Watts left the party much earlier than he told authorities.

'[The babysitter] stated the following day, Sunday August 12, 2018, Chris, Celeste and Bella came to her home for a birthday party for her younger brother,' reads the CBI report.

'Celeste and Bella are friends of her younger brother. [The babysitter] recalled Chris and his daughters left her home at about 3.30pm.'

Watts' co-worker Roberts later told the an agent with the Colorado Bureau of Investigation that it was 'unusual' that Watts had texted him on a weekend, and stated that he did arrive to the site alone on Monday morning.

That day he did not seem to be out of sorts according to Roberts, but did make multiple trips to his car.

Unbeknownst to Roberts, he had just buried his wife in a shallow grave and dumped his daughters in an oil tank.

After strangling his wife with his hands and smothering Bella and Celeste last August, Watts loaded their bodies into his truck.

He spent a normal day at work and frequently texted his girlfriend, even as police began investigating his family's disappearance.

He made calls to a real estate agent about selling the family home and told the girls' school that they would not enroll that fall as planned.

Within days, he was charged with killing his family.

The girls' bodies were found submerged in separate oil tanks on property owned by his employer. His wife's body was found in a shallow grave nearby.

As a prosecutor detailed the injuries at Monday's hearing, Shanann Watts' father leaned forward, gasping.

Christopher Watts' parents were permitted to speak at the hearing as the girls' grandparents. Cindy and Ronnie Watts urged their son to use his reprieve from a death sentence to make a full confession.

'We hope that he embraces that moment,' the couple's attorney said.

Rourke doubts that moment will ever come.

'Those are the questions that will always haunt anyone who was involved in the investigation,' he said.

'I don't think there is ever going to be a satisfactory answer for anyone.'

====== 12 ========

NEW REPORT TALLIES COST OF CLIMATE CHANGE IN THE US AT HUNDREDS OF BILLIONS

Climate change will cost the U.S. economy hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century, damaging everything from human health to infrastructure and agricultural production, according to a government report issued on Friday.

The Congressionally-mandated report, written with the help of more than a dozen U.S. government agencies and departments, outlined the projected impacts of global warming in every corner of American society, in a dire warning at odds with the Trump administration's pro-fossil fuels agenda.

'With continued growth in emissions at historic rates, annual losses in some economic sectors are projected to reach hundreds of billions of dollars by the end of the century - more than the current gross domestic product (GDP) of many U.S. states,' according to the report.

It said global warming would disproportionately hurt the poor, broadly undermine human health, damage infrastructure, limit the availability of water, alter coastlines, and boost costs in industries from farming to energy production.

A statue of a bear remains in front of a restaurant that was destroyed by the Camp Fire on Wednesday in Paradise, California. A new report examines the impact of climate change and predicts it will cost the US economy hundreds of billions by the end of the century

While it said that many of the impacts of climate change - including more frequent and more powerful storms, droughts and flooding - are already underway, the projections of further damage could change if greenhouse gas emissions are sharply curbed: 'Future risks from climate change depend primarily on decisions made today,' it said.

The report, the Fourth National Climate Assessment Volume II, supplements a study issued last year that concluded humans are the main driver of global warming, and which warned of potentially catastrophic effects to the planet.

The studies clash with policy under President Donald Trump, who has been rolling back Obama-era environmental and climate protections to maximize production of domestic fossil fuels, including crude oil, already the highest in the world, above Saudi Arabia and Russia.

Trump last year announced his intention to withdraw the United States from the 2015 Paris Deal agreed by nearly 200 nations to combat climate change, arguing the accord would hurt the U.S. economy and provide little tangible environmental benefit.

Trump and several members of his cabinet have also repeatedly cast doubt on the science of climate change, arguing the causes and impacts are not yet settled.

Trump this week reignited the debate by tweeting: 'Brutal and Extended Cold Blast could shatter ALL RECORDS - Whatever happened to Global Warming?'

A U.S. Army helicopter flies over homes and businesses flooded by heavy rains from Hurricane Florence in Lumberton, North Carolina in September. The study said that more frequent and powerful storms, drought and flooding caused by climate change are already underway.

White House spokeswoman Lindsay Walters did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

Environmental groups said the report reinforced their calls for the United States to take action on climate change.

'This report makes it clear that climate change is not some problem in the distant future. It's happening right now in every part of the country,' said Brenda Ekwurzel, the director of climate science at the Union of Concerned Scientists and one of the report's authors.

Previous research, including from U.S. government scientists, has also concluded that climate change could have severe economic consequences, including damage to infrastructure, water supplies and agriculture.

Severe weather and other impacts also increase the risk of disease transmission, decrease air quality, and can increase mental health problems, among other effects.

Thirteen government departments and agencies, from the Agriculture Department to NASA, were part of the committee that compiled the new report.

The entire report can be viewed here.

====== 13 ========

ROGER STONE ASSOCIATE IN PLEA TALKS WITH ROBERT MUELLER

Conservative writer and conspiracy theorist Jerome Corsi - an associate of Roger Stone - is in plea talks with Robert Mueller as part of the special counsel's investigation into Russia's role in the election and any possible links with President Donald Trump's campaign.

Corsi's talks could aid Mueller's team in their determination into whether Trump and his team were tied to WikiLeaks' release of hacked Democratic emails in the summer of 2016.

Mueller's team has been examining Stone's activities to see whether he coordinated with WikiLeaks. Stone is a longtime GOP operative who has advised Trump's campaign.

The team has been working with Corsi on a plea deal that would grant him leniency, The Washington Post reported.

Conservative writer and conspiracy theorist Jerome Corsi is in plea talks with the special counsel

Corsi worked with Roger Stone, who is also under investigation

Stone and WikiLeaks have repeatedly denied any such coordination.

Corsi's role in Mueller's investigation revolves around the possibility that he was an intermediary between Stone and WikiLeaks.

President Trump has repeatedly denied any collusion with Russia, saying he is the victim of a witch hunt.

During the presidential campaign, Corsi provided research on Democratic figures to Stone.

Corsi's deal has not been finalized, The Post reported, so it could still fall through or be subject to change.

Earlier this month Corsi said he feared he'd be indicted for perjury by Mueller's team and felt enormous pressure from the special counsel's office.

'This was one of the most confusing and frightening things I've experienced. I'm 72 years and I'm afraid they're going to lock me up and put me in solitary confinement,' he told NBC News this month.

He could be subject to a number of charges - from perjury to making false claims to obstruction of justice, CNN reported.

The potential charges could be related to false statements he made about his relationship with WikiLeaks and Stone.

Corsi has been involved in Mueller's investigation for about two months and has been in multiple interviews with prosecutors, given over documents and has testified before the grand jury.

Corsi told the Daily Caller last week that investigators are looking at whether he had developed a source with inside information about WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange's plans.

Wikileaks, shortly before the Democratic National Convention in 2016, posted hacked emails from officials.

The emails revealed how the party was working to secure Hillary Clinton's nomination over that of primary challenger Bernie Sanders and resulted in then Democratic National Convention Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz resigning her post.

Corsi had, during the presidential campaign, predicted that, in October 2016, Wikileaks would posted hacked emails from Clinton campaign manager John Podesta.

Corsi's prediction turned out to be correct - on Oct. 7, 2016, WikiLeaks began publishing 50,000 emails stolen from Podesta's account.

Corsi, who writes for the conservative website InfoWars, told the Daily Caller he based his prediction on public sources of information and concluded from the fact Podesta was not among the Democrats whose emails had been published by WikiLeaks in July, they were being held back to make a bigger impact before Election Day.

The special counsel is examining if President Donald Trump's campaign has any ties to the Wikileak's release of hacked emails from the Democratic National Committee

Special counsel Robert Mueller is thought to be wrapping up his investigation

Podesta's emails were stolen from his private gmail account and not an official work account.

'They wanted to know who my source was to Julian Assange, who gave me information where I really appeared to know in advance that he had Podesta emails,' Corsi told the Daily Caller.

Stone said Corsi did not tell him anything about Podesta emails.

'Absolutely, positively not,' he told the Daily Caller.

'He never told me that he had figured out or believed that John Podesta's emails had been stolen. There is no email that says that. There is no text message that says that. And there is no phone call that says that. He never told me that,' he said.

During the presidential campaign, Stone publicly bragged about having 'backchannel communications' with Julian Assange and, in multiple occasions, appeared to predict the WikiLeaks releases

Since then, Stone has walked back those claims.

He said his claims were exaggerations based on public information, as well as tips from New York radio host Randy Credico.

In a statement, Stone said: 'It is clear from his recent videos and his recent interviews that my friend Dr. Corsi has been under a tremendous amount of pressure and it is beginning to affect him profoundly.'

He added: 'As I told The Washington Post if Dr. Corsi knew that John Podesta's emails had been obtained by anyone and would be published he never shared this information with me nor did he give me any such documents.'

If Corsi cuts a deal with Mueller, he would be the 33rd individual defendant charged by the special counsel's team.

Mueller is thought to be wrapping up his investigation now that the midterm election is over.

====== 14 ========

EXPERTS WARN A THIRD OF PEOPLE WILL SUFFER FROM 'FESTIVE BURNOUT' BEFORE CHRISTMAS

One in three Americans will suffer 'Festive Burnout' before December 25, according to new research.

Despite the fact that the holidays are supposed to be a time for family, friends, and fun, an astonishing 35 per cent of people admit that they frequently feel burnt out before Christmas Day rolls around.

And it's not just those who suffer a full burnout that struggle during the festive season; according to a new study, 68 per cent of Americans consider the weeks that include Thanksgiving, Hanukkah, and Christmas, to be one of the most stressful of the year.

Holiday horror: More than one third of Americans admit that they suffer with 'festive burnout' before Christmas Day

Worry: Most people attribute the stress to holiday preparations, which take up nearly two days' worth of time for the average person

The new survey, which was conducted by Slumber Cloud and saw 2,000 people participate, also found that the average American will spend 38 hours - nearly two full days - getting ready or preparing for the holiday season in some fashion.

The biggest chunk of that time is spent shopping, which takes up a little more than 13 hours of the average American's time, whether it be picking out the perfect gift for a loved one or simply getting food for cooking.

And speaking of cooking, the average American will spend nine hours and 17 minutes in the kitchen cooking up grub, as well, over the holiday season -clocking in over a day of full-time work.

Another nine hours are spent just planning for the holidays, with an additional seven hours devoted to simply decorating.

According to the results, 'Festive Burnout' will set in for 36 per cent of Americans before mid-December, with a further 17 per cent saying it sets in before December even starts.

Crowds and shopping were the biggest contributors to 'Festive Burnout' with long lines and constantly hearing holiday music also receiving high marks. Continually being subjected to holiday TV ads is also enough to burn out 36 per ncent of Americans.

The worst causes of 'festive burnout' Shopping

Crowds

Long lines

Buying presents

Cooking

Finding the right gifts

Constant holiday music

Pressure to make Christmas special

Constant holiday commercials

Wrapping presents

The best remedies for 'festive burnout' A nap

Relaxing in the bedroom

Break from family

Listen to music

Getting out of the house

Take a walk

Reading

Taking time for hobbies

Watching favorite festive movie

Seeing friends

The study also went on to lay out the average holiday season in terms of what the average American will experience, and it was too real.

For instance, the survey showed that the average American will endure three awkward jokes from family members, will get asked three personal questions about their love lives by family members, will get into four arguments with family members, and eat 'too much' six times.

The survey also showed that eating too much over the holidays will cause 43 per cent of Americans to sleep poorly.

The 'Festive Burnout' was shown to have a profound effect on our sleeping habits, with 57 per cent saying they sacrifice sleep over the holiday season.

In fact, according to the results, Americans lose an hour of sleep every night on average.

'Losing an hour of sleep at night is not sustainable, especially during the high stress holiday season,' says Willy Madison, a sleep enthusiast at Slumber Cloud.

'That's why it's so important to create a bedroom environment designed to keep you from tossing and turning at night and instead enjoying the limited time you do have set aside actually sleeping.'

Solace: More than 50 per cent of people say they would love to escape from all the action and enjoy some peace and quiet during the holidays

Sanctuary! The place that almost every person finds to be the most relaxing is their bed

Over half of Americans (56 per cent) also admit to wanting to take a break from the holidays while they're in full swing, with the average American saying they feel they need a break ten times throughout the season.

Three out of four Americans consider their bed a 'safe haven' from the stress and burnout of the holiday season, with over half (52 per cent) of Americans saying they lose some of their privacy due to hosting friends and family overnight during the holidays.

And if the 'Festive Burnout' is real for you, the study also went on to find some popular ways people try to remedy it.

A world-famous nap was the most popular solution, with 51 per cent of respondents considering it a go-to remedy, with Americans fitting in four on average during the season.

Relaxing in your bedroom away from all the festivities was another high-scorer (45 per cent), along with listening to music (41 per cent) and just taking a walk (39 per cent).

Continued Madison: 'This holiday season, give yourself the gift of a great night's sleep, and you'll be surprised at how much an impact it makes on your ability to handle 'Festive Burnout' along with those awkward jokes from relatives.'

====== 15 ========

TRUMP TAKES BID TO BAN TRANSGENDER SOLDIERS DIRECTLY TO SUPREME COURT, BYPASSING CIRCUIT COURTS

President Donald Trump's administration, in a move to get around the circuit court, on Friday appealed directly to the Supreme Court to hear a challenge to the administration's policy that bars transgender people from military service.

The move comes as the president has railed against the Ninth Circuit, which put on a hold on his asylum ban for illegal immigrants.

Several district courts have blocked the policy, including the Ninth Circuit, which heard arguments earlier this fall, and the DC Circuit, which will hear arguments in early December.

President Trump's administration asked the Supreme Court to rule on a challenge to the ban on transgender soldiers

The US Supreme Court is pictured in full with the president and first lady on November 8

But, on Friday, the administration moved to bypass those courts and go straight to the top.

Solicitor General Noel Francisco of the Justice Department filed petitions asking Supreme Court justices to take up the issue in three separate cases that are still in lower courts, CNN reported.

Francisco argues that lower court rulings imposing nationwide injunctions are wrong and warrant immediate review by the high court.

The administration’s attempt to get the issue before the Supreme Court in their current term could mean a decision by June 2019 - if the justices agree to take up the matter.

The policy, which Trump announced on Twitter in July 2017, was later officially released by Secretary of Defense James Mattis.

It blocks individuals who suffer from a condition known as gender dysphoria from serving in the military with limited exceptions.

It does let individuals without the condition serve but only if they do so according to the sex they were assigned at birth.

Typically, the Supreme Court does not like to take up an issue before it has made its way through the lower courts.

The administration had made similar requests of the high court in the past and the Supreme Court has rebuffed those attempts, as it did in a challenge to the administration’s attempt to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program for Dreamers, sending the matters back to the lower courts before it weighs in.

President Trump has been railing against the Ninth Court and got into an unprecedented battle with Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts on the role of the judiciary.

A supporter of LGBT rights holds up an "equality flag" on Capitol Hill in Washington, during an event held by Rep. Joe Kennedy, D-Mass. in support of transgender members of the military

The policy blocks individuals who suffer from a condition known as gender dysphoria from serving in the military with limited exceptions

The Supreme Court does not like to bypass the lower courts

On Thanksgiving Day, he slammed the circuit court while on a call with U.S. troops based in Afghanistan.

'We got a lot of bad decisions from the Ninth Circuit, which has become a big thorn in our side. We always lose, and then you lose again and again, and you hopefully win at the Supreme Court, which we have done,' he said on a call with U.S. troops based in Afghanistan.

Trump also acknowledged his spat with Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts.

'I know that Chief Justice Roberts, John Roberts, has been speaking a little bit about it. And I think - I have a lot of respect for him. I like him and respect him, but I think we have to use some common sense. It's Ninth Circuit, everybody knows it, it's totally out of control. What they're doing, what they're saying, the opinions are very unfair to law enforcement. They're very unfair to our military. And they're very unfair, most importantly, to the people of our country,' he said.

Trump had complained that a judge appointed by former President Barack Obama has ruled against his asylum ban, calling him an 'Obama-judge.'

That earned a sharp rebuke from the chief justice.

Roberts, who is a Republican and was nominated to the Supreme Court by George W. Bush in 2005, said: 'We do not have Obama judges or Trump judges, Bush judges or Clinton judges.

'What we have is an extraordinary group of dedicated judges doing their level best to do equal right to those appearing before them.

'The independent judiciary is something we should all be thankful for.'

Trump hit back on Twitter afterwards, saying: 'Sorry Chief Justice John Roberts, but you do indeed have 'Obama judges', and they have a much different point of view than the people who are charged with the safety of our country.'

====== 16 ========

MNUCHIN NEXT ON CHOPPING BLOCK? TRUMP'S GRUMBLING ABOUT HIS TREASURY SECRETARY

President Donald Trump fired back at a report he's unhappy with Steven Mnuchin, calling it 'fake news' and saying he's 'extremely happy and proud of the job' being done by his treasury secretary.

'I am extremely happy and proud of the job being done by @USTreasury Secretary @StevenMnuchin1. The FAKE NEWS likes to write stories to the contrary, quoting phony sources or jealous people, but they aren't true. They never like to ask me for a quote b/c it would kill their story,' he wrote on Twitter Friday night.

'Fake news' is one of the president's favorite insults for stories he doesn't like.

Mnuchin was said to be onTrump's bad side, the Wall Street Journal reported on Friday afternoon, as the president worries moves from that department could hurt the economy and, thus, jeopardize his reelection bid.

Trump is expressing dissatisfaction with Mnuchin and blames him for the appointment of Jerome Powell as Federal Reserve chairman, who has been raising interest rates, the paper noted.

The president is said to be concerned the rising interest rates will hurt economic gains and that, in turn could harm his 2020 election chances.

President Trump has been expressing his displeasure with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin

Trump is said to be frustrated with Mnuchin's recommendation of Jerome Powell as chairman of the Federal Reserve

But Trump fired back at the report, saying he's 'extremely happy' with Mnuchin

The grumblings against Mnuchin are said to be following a similar path as those that led to the eventual dismissals of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Attorney General Jeff Sessions.

Trump is also said to have voiced frustration with Mnuchin over the turbulent stock market and the treasury secretary's skepticism toward the trade actions the White House has taken against China, sources told the Journal.

Aides said Trump watches the stock market as a barometer of his White House performance just as important as his approval ratings.

'If he's so good, why is this happening?' Trump said of Mnuchin, a source told the Journal.

However, aides often fall in and out favor in the president's eyes and this rumblings don't necessarily mean the treasury secretary could be on his way out the door.

He and Trump have a personal relationship going back to their New York business days. They once worked on a hotel together in Hawaii and Trump attended Mnuchin's wedding.

The White House told the paper Trump and Mnuchin have a good relationship.

'The president has long been clear about his views on the Fed,' said White House spokeswoman Lindsay Walters in a statement. 'He has a good relationship with Secretary Mnuchin and is thankful for all the work he does on behalf of his administration and the American people.'

Trump told reporters in Mar-a-Lago on Thursday he is interviewing people for jobs in his administration.

'Yeah I will have a few,' he said.

But he declined to say for what positions.

It's Powell's performance as fed chair that is said to be a sticking point for the president and Trump is said to have wondered if he should have picked someone else, even mentioning mentioning JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive Jamie Dimon as an alternative.

Trump picked Powell on Mnuchin's recommendation and tends to blame those who prompted the person when he gets frustrated with an appointee.

Speaking about Powell in a conversation in the past few weeks, Trump told Mnuchin: 'I thought you told me he was going to be good,' people briefed on the matter told the Journal.

Trump is said to be worried that Fed Chair Jerome Powell's (above) raising interest rates will hurt the economy, which, thus could damage his 2020 reelection bid

The grumblings against Mnuchin follow a similar path as those that led to the dismissals of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Attorney General Jeff Sessions

Mnuchin has publicly defended Powell, who goes by Jay. 'I think Jay has been a phenomenal leader at the Fed,' he said.

Fed officials have raised their benchmark interest rate three times this year, including in September when they raised it to a range between 2 percent and 2.25 percent and it's expected to be raised again at their December meeting.

Trump slammed Powell in an interview with the Journal last month.

'Every time we do something great, he raises the interest rates,' the president said, adding that Powell 'almost looks like he's happy raising interest rates.'

He also named the fed as the biggest risk to the U.S. economy, whose strength he touted repeatedly - and took credit for - on the campaign trail during the 2018 midterm election.

'To me the Fed is the biggest risk, because I think interest rates are being raised too quickly,' Trump said last month.

====== 17 ========

MONICA LEWINSKY REVEALS FOR FIRST TIME THAT BILL CLINTON URGED HER TO LIE UNDER OATH ABOUT AFFAIR

Monica Lewisnky recounted the moment that the sitting president encouraged her to lie under oath on the final episode of the A&E docuseries The Clinton Affair.

It marked the first time that Lewinsky has actually stated that Bill Clinton advised her to deny their affair if called to testify in the Paula Jones case, pointing out that she could avoid being deposed if she simply denied the charge in an affidavit.

Then, in a shockingly bold move, Clinton called for Lewinsky a few days later and the pair enjoyed an intimate, and private, Christmas party in the White House.

Unbeknownst to Lewinsky that was the end of the pair's relationship, with Clinton quickly bailing on his 24-year-old paramour who was left to do battle with the special prosecutor, the FBI and the American public on her own while he fell back on a multi-million dollar legal fund raised by supporters.

It became too much for Lewinsky at one point she said, and she seriously considered taking her own life.

Wake-up call: Monica Lewinsky revealed that Bill Clinton phoned her at 2.30am to inform her that she was on the witness list for the Paula Jones case

'Bill called at 2.30 in the morning and there were two pieces of bad news which he was passing along,' recalled Lewinsky.

'One was that Betty Currie's brother had been killed in a car accident and I had grown very close to Betty, I mean, our relationship was complicated, but I cared very much for her she had had another relative who had passed away recently so this was distressing news to me.'

Things then got worse for Lewinsky with the second bit of news, which hit much closer to home.

'And then, he really dropped the bombshell that he had seen the witness list for the Paula Jones case and I was on it,' revealed Lewinsky.

'The information about Betty spun me one way and the information about the witness list spun me completely the other way. He told me that it broke his heart and that he'd thought that I probably wouldn't get called as a witness.'

She continued: 'I was petrified. I was frantic about my family, and this becoming public. Thankfully, Bill helped me lock myself back from that and he said I could probably sign an affidavit to get out of it, and he didn't even know if a 100 percent I would be subpoenaed.'

Tears: 'Thankfully, Bill helped me lock myself back from that and he said I could probably sign an affidavit to get out of it,' said Lewinsky(above in The Clinton Affair)

Lewinsky then pointed out that Clinton never said: 'Now, listen you're gonna have to lie here.'

She followed that up though by stating he also never said: 'Listen, honey, this is gonna be really awful we're gonna have to tell the truth.'

Lewinsky was subpoenaed just a few days later, so she decided to speak with Clinton's close friend and attorney Vernon Jordan.

Up until this point, the docuseries had been remarkably detailed in the chain of events leading up to the impeachment, but here there are some obvious questions that are not even asked, let alone answered.

Lewinsky claims that she called up Jordan on her own and managed to secure a meeting with him in his office.

And from there she claims he introduced her to her attorney.

Apologize: She signed the affidavit and soon after got called to the White House for a Christmas tryst (Clinton above in 1998 denying the affair)

There is no examination of how a 24-year-old working at the Pentagon managed to quickly book a face-to-face with one of the most powerful litigators in the world at the time.

'I didn't know whom to contact and Vernon mentioned a lawyer Frank Carter, and took me to meet him,' said Lewinsky.

'Frank Carter explained to me, if I'd signed an affidavit denying having had an intimate relationship with the president it might mean I wouldn't have to be deposed in the Paula Jones case.

'I did feel uncomfortable about it but I felt it was the right thing to do, ironically, right? So, the right thing to do, to break the law.'

Soon after she did this she was rewarded with a call to meet Clinton at the White House.

'This is the first time I met Buddy, the dog and we kind of all played around with Buddy in the office and then we went into the back study and we had a Christmas kiss,' said Lewinsky.

'Over the summer he had gone to Martha's Vineyard and he brought back a bunch of different things. He had this big canvas bag from the Black Dog. This marble bear, sunglasses.

'It was the most presents he'd given me at one time. He knew the subpoena was gonna ask to produce certain items and yet he was giving me more gifts. He clearly still trusted me.'

She handed those gifts, and all others, to Clinton's secretary for safekeeping and to avoid possible seizure.

Then she was left to fend for herself, a situation that quickly became dire.

This comes after the premiere of the series on Sunday, when Lewinsky's parents spoke about their daughter's affair for the first time.

Dr Bernard Lewinsky and his ex-wife Marcia said on the second episode of the The Clinton Affair that they were thrilled when their daughter got an internship at the White House.

'I'm an immigrant from El Salvador and it was awesome and unbelievable that she would be working at the White House,' said her father, the son of German Jews who fled to Central America during World War II.

That internship soon spiraled out of control when Lewinsky was discovered to be having an affair with the president, and the FBI forced her to help in the investigation into Clinton.

Lewinsky reveals they did this by threatening to prosecute her mother, breaking down in tears as she recalls how Kenneth Starr's team and federal agents said both women were facing 27 years in prison for lying about the affair.

I kept asking could I call my mom, they kept saying no,' recalled Lewinsky of the 12-hour interrogation inside a hotel room at the Ritz-Carlton.

'You're 24, you don't need to call your mommy, you need to make a decision about what to do.'

Lewinsky was unflappable at that point however, and told the men: 'Well you should learn I am leaning towards not cooperating.'

That is when the men made the decision to threaten not only her, but also her family.

'And then he said, "Well, you should know, we're also thinking about prosecuting your mom for the things you said she did on the tape,"' said Lewinsky, breaking down in tears.

Lewinsky then informed the men that she had to call someone, either her mother or a lawyer, before she would make this decision to wear a wire and have her calls tapped by the FBI.

Tight unit: Lewinsky broke down in tears when recalling the moment that she was told both she and her mother were looking at 27 years in prison for lying (Monoica and Marcia above circa 1996)

Gown: Clinton then bailed on Lewinsky, who found herself targeted by the FBI and Kenneth Starr's team (Lewinsky at the 1997 inaugural ball)

The men eventually gave in to Lewinsky's demands, and she said she went to a pay phone and called her mother in the local mall.

Lewinsky said her mother attempted to get her to calm down and breathe, before finally coming to realize the situation her daughter was in at the time.

'FBI ... have me ... I'm in a hotel,' recalled Lewinsky of her words to her mother.

Monica's mother recalled her daughter's earlier days in the second episode, while sharing some photos of the girl's childhood.

'Monica was a beautiful and very, very smart little girl,' said her mother Marcia.

'But stubborn. Really stubborn.

Dr Lewinsky added: 'She was very gregarious, friendly, you know when she was in the room.'

And he said of the moment he learned about her internship: 'I was so proud of her and she was so happy about it.'

Lewinsky also detailed the events that led to her decision to confide in Linda Tripp, the woman who would eventually alert the special prosecutor to the fact that Clinton was having an affair with a former intern.

It all started when members of Clinton's staff decided to move Lewinsky out of her post working for Legislative Affairs at The White House and transfer her to the Pentagon amid growing concerns over how close she had become with the president.

Lewinsky suggested that this was all done with the knowledge of her paramour, who she describes as 'crestfallen.'

The two had been seeing one another daily and enjoying weekly trysts prior to that Lewinsky had revealed, but the move to a new job and building changed all that in an instant.

Lewinsky would instead be forced to wait until the middle of the night for Clinton to call, but she said that he had promised to move her back to a White House position after the election.

At that point the pair had been carrying on their affair for five months, and a number of staff members had begun to take notice of how often Lewinsky was around the president and Oval Office.

It was an optics problem however said staffers, with no one explicitly stating that they believed the intern was having an affair with the president.

The job shift also came while Clinton was in the middle of his reelection campaign, meaning that he was not in touch with Lewinsky for days or even weeks at a time.

'I had this nagging insecurity that maybe he just did all these things these last six months cause he wanted to keep me quiet during the election,' explained Lewinsky.

'How stupid am I that I believed this, that I bought this. I felt so deflated and so desperate. And those were the conditions along with some other things that led to me confiding in Linda Tripp.'

Lewinsky described her mindset at the time by saying she 'had naively invested in his promise,' but that was shattered when the election came and went without the offer of a White House job.

It was too much for Lewinsky, who says that after a few hours she began to think about commiting suicide.

Twenty years later, it still causes her to break down in tears.

'The ground completely crumbled in that moment. I felt so much guilt. And I felt terrified,' she revealed in the interview.

An FBI agent involved in the case acknowledged this, saying that Lewinsky was 'alternating between being hysterical, being angry, being abusive.'

'They imagined that I would have flipped really easily. They had no plan in place for what would happen if i said no,' said Lewinsky.

That then gave way to thoughts of ending her own life.

'There was a point for me somewhere within these first several hours where I would be hysterically crying and then I would just shut down,' she recalled.

'And in the shut down period I just remember looking out the window and thinking the only way to fix this is to kill myself.'

Lewinsky, who up until that point had managed to hold back her tears, then burst out sobbing.

'I just felt terrible ... and I was scared ... and I was mortified,' she said while trying to regain her composure.

This all played out at the Ritz Carlton in January 1998, with the Office of the Independent Counsel getting Linda Tripp to set up a meeting with Lewinsky.

She was then taken to a room and held by prosecutors until that night.

Lewinsky admitted that the thing that made this so difficult for her was the fact that she was still in love with Clinton and she stood her ground, until they threatened her mother.

====== 18 ========

WORLD'S MOST EXPENSIVE PAINTING IS ‘LOST’ AFTER SAUDI CROWN PRINCE BOUGHT MASTERPIECE FOR £350M

A Leonardo Da Vinci painting which sold for £350million last year is 'lost', prompting art lovers to plead with the Saudi Royals to confirm its location.

'Salvator Mundi' by the great artist hasn't been seen in public since it was 'acquired' by Louvre Abu Dhabi via the Saudi crown prince Mohammed bin Salman.

Now, scholars and restorers of the painting are growing increasingly concerned about the painting's whereabouts.

Salvator Mundi hasn't been seen in public since it was 'acquired' last year

Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman most recently acquired the painting

Professor Martin Kemp, the Da Vinci scholar who helped authenticate the piece a decade ago, told The Times: 'Nobody outside the immediate Arab hierarchy knows where it is.'

In 2005, the painting was acquired for less than $10,000 (£7,809) at an auction in New Orleans by a consortium of art dealers that included Robert Simon, a specialist in Old Masters.

When asked where the 500-year-old painting might be, he rather worryingly responded: 'I have no idea. The mystery of its location is, of course, disturbing.'

The Louvre Abu Dhabi museum (pictured) have not confirmed where the painting is

Another person with an intimate insight into the painting is someone who's actually worked on it, and she has no idea where it is either.

Dianne Dwyer Modestini, an internationally renowned conservator of old master and nineteenth-century paintings who spent hundreds on hours restoring the one in question has pleaded with the Louvre Abu Dhabi to confirm that the 'extremely fragile' panel is in good hands.

The painting depicts a blue-robed Jesus holding a crystal orb and gazing directly at the viewer.

Visitors at the Louvre Abu Dhabi museum, in the Emirati capital, which bought the piece

Its price was double the previous record set by Pablo Picasso's painting 'Women of Algiers (Version O)' ('Les Femmes D'Alger) which sold for $179.4 million in May 2015.

It was lost in the past when in 2015 its whereabouts was unaccounted for until it was bought at a cut price by two collectors that had a hunch it was a Da Vinci.

They enlisted the help of Dianne Dwyer Modestini and her husband who restored it to its former glory, eventually seeing it displayed in the National Gallery in 2011.

It was confirmed to be the real deal and In 2013 Robert Simon's consortium sold the painting to the dealer Yves Bouvier, who the Russian billionaire Dmitry Rybolovlev says was acting as his agent.

It was he, in dramatic and controversial circumstances, that sold it to the Saudi Crown Prince just days before he announced the opening of the Louvre Abu Dhabi.

The Monaco football club owner had bought the painting for $127.5 million although he later accused a Swiss art dealer of overcharging him.

He then sued Sotheby's for at least $380 million, alleging the auction house helped his former art adviser to defraud him.

Painting depicts a blue-robed Jesus holding a crystal orb and gazing directly at the viewer

'Salvator Mundi,' which means 'Savior of the World,' went on public display in 2011 in a dramatic unveiling at The National Gallery in London, where the work was declared to be the first newly discovered Da Vinci painting in a century.

It is one of fewer than 20 paintings generally accepted as being from the Renaissance master's own hand, according to Christie's.

It had sold for a mere 45 British pounds in 1958, when the painting was thought to have been a copy, and was lost until it resurfaced at a regional auction in 2005.

The painting was due to be shown the new Louvre in September this year but recently announced that they are postponing the unveiling, further worrying art experts.

The gallery and its Parisian version have declined to comment with further comment ever since.

Simon, the former owner of Salvator Mundi, is worried too, he told The Times: 'I am concerned about its condition, its wellbeing.

'I am trusting and believing that, wherever it is, there are people who understand that it is a 500-year-old, very fragile work of art and that they are keeping it in museum conditions.'

The painting's history is long and complicated and this is the latest installment in the drama surrounding it.

====== 19 ========

WIKIPEDIA IN HOURS-LONG BATTLE WITH HACKERS WHO REPLACED DONALD TRUMP'S HEADSHOT WITH PENIS PICTURE

Anyone pulling up details about President Donald Trump Thursday may have been in for a surprise after hackers managed to change his Wikipedia image to a picture of a male pubic area.

Those pulling a prank on POTUS successfully kept the photograph associated with the 72-year-old on the website to feature a penis instead of Trump's official headshot throughout Thanksgiving Day.

The Verge reported that anyone asking Apple's Siri for details on the American leader could have been faced with genitals rather than Trump's usual grin.

Hackers substituted Donald Trump's face for this R-rated image on Wikipedia on Thursday

Anyone asking Apple's Siri for details on the American leader could have been faced with genitals rather than Trump's usual grin

Initially unclear whether it was being controlled by a glitch in the way Siri operates, it has since been discovered that trolls got in by editing the online encyclopaedia repeatedly as the website's editors desperately tried to revert each time.

In the page's history is clear how various edits are reverted back and forth over the course of Thursday evening.

Then in the early hours of Friday morning Coordinated Universal Time, the protection levels for Trump's profile were requested to be higher, quoting 'compromised accounts'.

Noting that they 'require administrator access' the editors also stated that there were 'multiple editors complaining that the tooltip is wrong' in reference to the message that appears when a cursor is hovered over an image.

Once extended confirmed access was put into play for the page, the issue was able to be fixed.

The rogue editors were finally blocked from their privileges to publish on the website.

President Donald Trump's Wikipedia account was hacked Thursday

In the page's history is clear how various edits are reverted back and forth over the course of Thursday evening

Once extended confirmed access was put into play for the page, the issue was able to be fixed and the rogue editors were finally blocked from their privileges to publish on the website

An editor told The Verge: 'They have now been blocked indefinitely.'

Recently Republicans were subject to trolling via Wikipedia when politicians Lindsey Graham, Mike Lee and Orrin Hatch had their home addresses and phone numbers published.

It took place around the time Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh's hearing.

But it's not just Republicans who have fallen victim to Wikipedia hackers.

Democrat Hillary Clinton's page was changed to include pornographic images in 2016.

====== 20 ========

NEW JERSEY MAN DENIES ANY INVOLVEMENT IN DEATHS OF HIS BROTHER'S FAMILY

Paul Caneiro (pictured), 51, the brother of a New Jersey millionaire, who was killed alongside his wife and two children before their home was set on fire, has denied any involvement in their deaths

The brother of a New Jersey millionaire, who was killed alongside his wife and two children before their home was set on fire, has denied any involvement in their deaths.

Keith Caneiro, 50, his wife Jennifer, 45, and their two children, Jesse, 11, and Sophia, eight, were found dead at their $1.5million mansion as it went up in flames on Monday afternoon.

Keith, whose body was found on the front lawn, had been shot. Jennifer, Jesse, and Sophia were all stabbed to death. The police are investigating the deaths as a quadruple homicide and the fire as an arson.

Keith's brother, Paul Caneiro, 51, was arrested and charged on Wednesday with aggravated arson for a fire that was reported at his own $670,000 home in Ocean Township around 5am the day before.

On Thursday, Paul's attorney Robert Honecker told CNN that his client 'maintains his innocence on this charge and any other potential charges'.

'His family fully support his defense of this charge. No evidence has been produced that suggests a reason why he would engage in such conduct. He fully expects to be vindicated when this case finally resolves,' Honecker added.

Prosecutors say Paul doused part of his home with gasoline from cans and then set it on fire while his wife and two adult daughters were inside.

He has not been charged for the murders of his brother, sister-in-law, or niece and nephew. He has not been granted bail.

It was also revealed on Thursday that Paul stayed near his home in Ocean Township until about noon on the death of his brother's death.

Keith Caneiro, his wife Jennifer, and their two children Jesse and Sophia (all pictured left) were murdered at their Colts Neck, New Jersey home before it was set on fire. Paul (right) was arrested for setting his own home on fire beforehand

On Wednesday, hundreds of people from New Jersey's Colts Neck neighborhood gathered to honor the slain family at a candlelight vigil

A memorial was created for the family at the front steps of the town hall. Mayor JP Bartolomeo said the Caneiros were well-known in the community, often attending their children's sports games

The mayor thanked the large crowd for coming to support the Caneiros. Together they sang Our Father and Hail Mary prayers in tribute to the Catholic family

'We know he was here up until at least 12. He was in the car and our neighbor… was talking to him. The kids were using his bathroom, one of his girls came over and used our bathroom,' a neighbor told the Asbury Park Press.

On Wednesday, hundreds of people from New Jersey's Colts Neck neighborhood gathered to honor Keith and his family who were brutally murdered in their own home.

'I'd be lying if I stood here and told you this was easy,' Mayor JP Bartolomeo told the crowd as they stood on the front steps of the town hall on Wednesday night.

'We lost four really nice people from our community, who I happened to be friends with, who my boys were friends with, a lot of you were friends with.'

Bartolomeo said the Caneiros were well-known in the community, often attending their children's sporting events. Jesse played baseball while Sophia was a cheerleader, according to NJ.com.

A neighbor called 911 about a fire at Keith's home, which was just 12 miles away from Paul's Ocean Township residence, at 12.38pm on Monday.

Keith was shot at least twice in the back and head and his wife and children had been stabbed, according to NBC.

All of the bodies were badly burned and prosecutors said they were all victims of 'homicidal violence'.

There are no other suspects and prosecutors say the family was 'targeted'. The investigation is ongoing but it has been slowed down by the fire.

It took firefighters several hours to put out the blaze at the family's house. It is still unsafe and investigators have not yet been able to survey it in full.

At a press conference on Wednesday, Monmouth County Prosecutor Christopher Gramiccioni said: 'We can't charge people unless we have evidence. We can't even send largely our investigators in there.'

It remains unclear if the family was murdered before the fire was reported at Paul's house or afterwards. It is also unknown who called 911, but he and his wife Susan escaped unharmed along with their two adult daughters.

Afterwards, he sat in his car with his wife and two daughters.

Neighbors told DailyMail.com on Wednesday they were shocked Paul had been arrested and described him as a proud homeowner.

Keith used to visit him often, they said, but had not been to his brother's home for a while.

Keith and his family were found dead inside their $1.5million home in Colts Neck (pictured) as it burned. Keith had been shot and his wife and children had been stabbed to death

The fire at Paul's home (pictured) was reported at 5am in Ocean Township, New Jersey. Only part of the house was damaged and no one was hurt

The two houses are 12 miles apart. There were just over seven hours between when the two fires were reported

One man, who did not wish to be named, said he believed it was unlikely that Paul would set his own house on fire because he had worked so hard on it.

He said the family seemed genuinely devastated by the fire and were 'grieving' over the house but that Paul made a remark about being blamed for it which surprised him.

'He said, "They make it seem like it's your fault." I was like, huh? Why the hell would you say that? If I'd been him, I'd be thinking, my house is burned, how do I fix it?

'That's what I would have been thinking - not that they made me feel like I did it. And even if they did make me feel that way, I'd still be thinking of the financial impact that it would have me,' the man said.

'The daughters, the wife, they were all grieving, the way you would grieve over a child, because they were so proud of that house.

'We went over to see what happened. He was sitting in his car with his wife and girls. The first thing he said to us was, 'I'm in shock.' He was visibly shaken. If it was fake, you'd have to be a pretty damned good actor. It was shaking, nervous,' he added.

Prosecutors say Paul (right after a car accident which gave him a limp) set fire to his home using gasoline while his wife Susan, (center left) and daughters Marissa, 23, (second from right) and Katelyn, 26, (left) were inside the home

Neighbors told DailyMail.com Paul (pictured with his oldest daughter) was proud of his home and boasted about spending $140,000 on his deck. They said he was a 'big fish in a small pond' who gave his daughters Porsches but never lived up to his younger brother's financial success

'His house is loaded with surveillance cameras. He also has infrared on both floors, scanning the whole house. He's nuts with technology, everything over the top.

'He told me he spent $140,000 building his deck. It's stainless steel screws, it's so over-the-top for this neighborhood.

'That's why I keep saying there's no way he lit fire to his own house. He's so passionate about it. It's his baby. So to torch it? If it turns out that that's the truth, I'll be totally surprised,' the man said.

The man also remarked on how Paul was ambitious but did not have the same level of success as his younger brother.

'He's a guy who was enamored with financial success. He liked the good stuff. He's got his girls Porches for their first cars.

'That doesn't fit the profile of a person who lives in this neighborhood.'

'I mean the Porsche dealer comes and brings cars by, and tries to sell him cars at his house. I've seen it happen. He likes to be the big shot. He's a big fish in a little pond.'

'His brother can afford a Colts Neck place on a piece of land. [Paul]'s a big shot in an upper-middle class neighborhood,' he said.

The burned out mansion in Colts Neck is still not fully accessible to law enforcement because of the damage caused by the blaze. There is no indication yet how it was started

The mansion in Colts Neck was torched by the fire. There were dozens of police there on Wednesday. The area is affluent and considered a safe haven for wealthy families

Jennifer and Keith paid off their mortgage two years ago. Their home (pictured during the blaze) is in an exclusive neighborhood and sits on nine acres of land

Firefighters carry a stretcher to the scene of a fatal fire at the mansion on Tuesday afternoon as the fire continued to roar

Neighbors said Jennifer Caneiro, 45, was 'so nice' and 'beautiful'. Keith was the CEO of technology firm Square One

After the fire at his house, Paul and his wife Susan stood outside for around seven hours, according to his neighbors.

'He said it must have been a gas leak, he had tears in his eyes. Susan was devastated,' one neighbor, who did not want to be named, told NJ.com.

'He said, 'I'm in complete shock, I can't believe this is happening to me.' They were here until about noon. '

Keith and Paul were partners in a tech consulting firm where Keith was the CEO and founder and Paul was the vice president.

Forensics teams were seen entering Paul's home on Wednesday afternoon as he remained in custody

They both grew up in Brooklyn with a younger brother, Corey, who does not appear to be involved in the fires or murders.

Both Paul and Keith married women from Staten Island. At Paul's wedding in 1991, Keith acted as the best man.

They were also partners in a pest control company they operated from the same office.

Colts Neck, where Keith lived, is a well-to-do community about 50 miles south of New York City and is home to horse farms.

One woman, who owns a horse farm near Keith's home, told The Asbury Park Press that Jennifer often brought the children by to feed the horses.

She said she was 'so nice' and 'beautiful'.

Typical homes in Colts Neck are valued at about $750,000.

According to records obtained by NJ.com, Jennifer and Keith paid off their $1.8million mortgage two years ago.

====== 21 ========

FURIOUS CALLERS MISTOOK MICHIGAN JUDGE FOR DC JUSTICE WHO RESTORED JIM ACOSTA'S WHITE HOUSE ACCESS

A Michigan judge with the same name as the federal judge who restored CNN reporter Jim Acosta's access to the White House has been receiving angry calls over the ruling.

Furious callers mistook Bay County District Court Judge Timothy J. Kelly for US District Court Judge Timothy J. Kelly for the District of Columbia.

US District Judge Kelly granted Acosta a two-week injunction to return to work on November 16.

Meanwhile, on November 16 Bay County Judge Kelly was out of the office.

The White House had initially revoked Acosta's credentials after he and President Donald Trump tangled verbally during a November 7 press conference.

Furious callers mistook Bay County District Court Judge Timothy J. Kelly (left) for US District Court Judge Timothy J. Kelly (right) for the District of Columbia

US District Judge Kelly granted CNN reporter Jim Acosta (pictured) a two-week injunction to return to work on November 16. Meanwhile, on November 16 Bay County Judge Kelly was out of the office

Judge Kelly's Bay City's office received a half-dozen phone calls complaining about the other Timothy J. Kelly's ruling, according to MLive.com.

Bay County Judge Kelly said he thinks the callers 'would at least do your homework' before calling someone to complain.

'In my line of work, of course, you expect to be criticized for some of your decisions,' Bay County Judge Kelly told the news site.

'That goes with the territory. However, to be criticized for decisions you didn't make... It just makes you wonder.'

Bay County Judge Kelly's court recorder and judicial secretary Alexa Pobanz said she was initially bewildered by the calls.

'It took me three or four calls to figure out what they were talking about,' Pobanz told MLive.

'People didn't identify themselves necessarily; they just started in - "This is the worst ruling ever made by the judge today." I was very confused.'

Pobanz said every single call was someone who just wanted to complain.

On Monday, the Trump administration abruptly dropped its effort to bar Acosta from the White House, but warned he could have his credentials pulled again if he doesn't follow guidelines governing journalists' behavior.

The White House said reporters would be permitted one question each if called upon at news conferences and allowed follow-ups only at the discretion of the president.

In a letter to Acosta, White House communications director Bill Shine and press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said they will be forced to reconsider the decision 'if unprofessional behavior occurs'.

CNN said that, as a result, it has dropped its lawsuit against the White House filed on Acosta's behalf.

On Monday, the Trump administration abruptly dropped its effort to bar Acosta (pictured, walking into the White House) from the White House, but warned he could have his credentials pulled again if he doesn't follow guidelines governing journalists' behavior

'Thanks to everyone for their support,' Acosta tweeted. 'As I said last Friday ... let's get back to work.'

Acosta's credentials were revoked earlier this month, with the Trump administration's initial reasoning being that Acosta had manhandled a White House intern seeking to take his microphone.

But that fell apart after Sanders distributed a doctored video sped up to make Acosta look more aggressive than he actually was.

Instead, the White House focused on behavior they deemed disrespectful to the president.

The White House had initially revoked Acosta's credentials after he and President Donald Trump tangled verbally during a November 7 press conference

Acosta and CNN have been frequent targets of a president who has derided coverage of his administration as 'fake news' and called the media the enemy of the people.

CNN filed suit to get Acosta's credentials restored, arguing that the action violated the constitutional right to freedom of the press and that he had been denied due process.

After DC District Court Judge Kelly cited the due process argument last Friday in granting Acosta a two-week injunction to get back to work, the White House initially fought back, saying it had made a preliminary decision to keep Acosta out when the two weeks were up.

But after CNN requested a hearing, Shine and Sanders changed course.

'The view from here is that White House interaction with the press is, and generally should be, subject to kind of a natural give and take,' Shine and Sanders wrote.

'President Trump believes strongly in the First Amendment and interacts with the press in just such a way. It would be a great loss for all if, instead of this give-and-take, and instead of relying on the professionalism of White House journalists, we were compelled to devise a lengthy and detailed code of conduct.'

The White House Correspondents Association said the White House did the right thing in restoring Acosta's pass.

The WHCA said it had no role in crafting any of the new procedures, and objected to one.

'For as long as there have been White House press conferences, White House reporters have asked follow-up questions,' said Olivier Knox, WHCA president. 'We fully expect this tradition will continue.'

====== 22 ========

FAMILY OF MISSIONARY KILLED BY NATIVE TRIBE BEG POLICE NOT TO PROSECUTE ANYONE OVER HIS DEATH

John Chau's mother Lynda (pictured) and the rest of his family say no one is responsible for his death but him

The family of an American missionary has forgiven the native tribe which killed him when he arrived uninvited on their island last week and are urging authorities not to hold anyone but him responsible for his death.

John Chau, 27, was killed on North Sentinel Island last week as he attempted to visit the tribe. Local fisherman reported seeing the tribe drag his body days after Chau paid them to take him as close as they would to the island before he kayaked over to it.

He had written to his family beforehand and told them not to blame the Sentinelese people if he did not make it out alive.

Despite the fact that the tribe is protected and it is illegal for anyone to try to go onto the island, Indian police have lodged a murder case against its members and some of the people who helped Chau get there.

In an Instagram post on his account on Wednesday, his parents John and Lynda Chau, who live in Washington State, revealed they had forgiven the tribe and urged Indian authorities to release the local men who Chau paid to take him close to the island.

'He loved God, life, help those in need, and had nothing but love for the Sentinelese people.

'We forgive those reportedly responsible for his death. We also ask for the release of those friends he had in the Andaman Islands.

'He ventured out on his own free will and his local contacts need not be persecuted for his own actions,' the family said in their Instagram statement.

Chau was killed by members of the Sentinelese people (some of whom are shown in an undated stock photograph) after approaching their island uninvited on a kayak to spread the word of God. He was killed with a bow and arrow and his body is still on the island

The family of John Chau released this statement on his Instagram account this week as they begged for Indian police to release the seven men they have charged in relation to his death and not pursue charges against the tribe

The Sentinelese tribe are an indigenous tribe who live on North Sentinal Island, lies around 450 miles from the coast of Thailand and more than 745 miles from mainland India

The Andaman and Nicobar Police Department has arrested seven people including five fishermen and two of Chau's friends, alleging that they helped him get to the island despite it being illegal for anyone to go there.

It remains unclear if the police department has merely opened a murder investigation for the purposes of thoroughness or if they intend to level charges against the group which would pose a labyrinth of logistical and ethical challenges given its status as a protected tribe.

Police are still unsure of how they will even retrieve Chau's body because of the tribe's hostility.

A spokesman for the Andaman and Nicobar Police Department did not immediately respond to DailyMail.com's inquiries on Friday afternoon.

International Christian Concern, an anti-persecution group based out of Washington DC, issued a statement about Chau's death demanding that the tribe be brought to justice.

It alleged that he was killed because he was Christian and not because he approached the island where no one but the tribe has lived for 30,000 years.

'This murder comes at a time when Indian Christians report ever escalating levels of persecution across the country.

John Allen Chau, 26, was shot dead with arrows last week by tribesman when he arrived at North Sentinel Island - one of the world's most isolated regions in India's Andaman islands

DailyMail.com has since obtained a letter Chau wrote to his parents he penned prior to his death that detailed how he was committed to teaching the tribe about Jesus

'India has a history of attacks on foreign Christian missionaries....Across India, reports of persecution continue to escalate in both number and severity,' it said.

'Please do not be angry at them': John Chau's letter to his parents You guys might think I'm crazy in all this but I think it's worth it to declare Jesus to these people. Please do not be angry at them or at God if I get killed. Rather please live you lives in obedience to whatever he has called you to and I'll see you again when you pass through the veil. This is not a pointless thing - the eternal lives of this tribe is at hand and I can't wait to see them around the throne of God worshiping in their own language as Revelations 7:9-10 states. I love you all and I pray none of you love anything in this world more than Jesus Christ.' Soli Deo gloria.

William Stark, ICC’s Regional Manager, said, 'We here at International Christian Concern are extremely concerned by the reports of an American missionary being murdered in India’s Andaman and Nicobar Islands.

'Our thoughts and prayers go out to both John’s family and friends. Every day, new reports of persecution are being documented in India. Many Christians fear this may be the new normal for their community as Hindu radicals and others have been allowed to attack Christians and other minority communities with impunity.

'India must take steps to counter the growing wave of intolerance and violence.'

Chau had written a letter to his parents before he kayaked to the island. In it, he told them not to hold the tribe responsible for his death if he did not come back alive.

Before he was killed, he tried to approach the island at least one other time and was shot at.

He described how an arrow pierced his bible as he approached them.

'I hollered, "My name is John, I love you and Jesus loves you,"' he wrote in his diary. He went on to say: 'You guys might think I’m crazy in all this but I think it’s worthwhile to declare Jesus to these people.

'God, I don't want to die.'

One of Chau's friends revealed to DailyMail.com that he was 'committed' to travelling to the remote island, deep in the Indian Ocean, to preach Christianity to the tribesmen and had been planning the trip for at least three years.

Neil MacLeod, of Stornaway, Scotland, said he met Chau on a flight from London to Phoenix, Arizona, in October 2015.

'I saw him reading some Christian literature and I'm a Christian and we started talking,' he said.

MacLeod, 47, said Chau told him he had recently returned from India and was trying to figure out how to travel to the remote North Sentinel Island in the Bay of Bengal.

'He mentioned that he wanted to go to these islands, the islands where he has now died,' MacLeod said. 'I had heard of these islands and I know how dangerous they are, so I was surprised by that.

The Sentinelese attracted international attention in the wake of the 2004 Asian tsunami, when a member of the tribe was photographed on a beach, firing arrows at a helicopter (pictured)

Chau took a boat ride with the fishermen before venturing alone in a canoe to North Sentinel Island (pictured, a file photo shows tribesmen on the island)

'He recognized the dangers of travelling there, but I think he had a sense of call. This was something he was working on for three years. He was committed to going there. In his view, he was trying to help these people.

'There are islands that are nearby and he was making relationships and connections to help him get to the islands.'

Since the flight, MacLeod said he had emailed back and forth with Chau, who he described as 'magnetic' and 'charming.'

'He was a lovely character and wanted to help people. The thing that came across was what a delight it was to be in his company.

'He was such a warm and engaging and friendly kind of fellow. You might have an idea of what a missionary might be like, he was a million miles from that. I think he's a real loss. I'm just very sorry about what has happened.'

MacLeod said Chau was based in Portland, Washington, and working as an EMT at the time. He said he had helped during major incidents, including in the wake of Hurricane Katrina in 2005.

'He was a free wheel so he would go to incidents, like major incidents around the world and look to help,' he said. 'He had worked with FEMA when he went down to Katrina. He was working there.

'He's worked in some pretty rough places.'

====== 23 ========

INDIAN AUTHORITIES WILL STRUGGLE TO RECOVER BODY OF JOHN ALLEN CHAU

Indian authorities have admitted that they will struggle to recover the body of an American Christian missionary who was killed after wading ashore on an island cut off from the modern world.

John Allen Chau was killed last week by North Sentinel islanders who shot him with arrows and then buried his body on the beach.

Now officials have admitted that even they don't travel to North Sentinel, as the people who live there still live as their ancestors did thousands of years ago and view outsiders with suspicion.

Chau was a preacher who had visited the Andaman and Nicobar islands in the past, a police source said

Dependera Pathak, director-general of police on India's Andaman and Nicobar Islands, where North Sentinel is located, said: 'It's a difficult proposition. We have to see what is possible, taking utmost care of the sensitivity of the group and the legal requirements.'

He added that police are now consulting anthropologists, tribal welfare experts and scholars to figure out a way to recover the body.

While visits to the island are heavily restricted, Chau paid fishermen last week to take him near North Sentinel, using a kayak to paddle to shore and bringing gifts including a football and fish.

Chau took a boat ride with the fishermen before venturing alone to North Sentinel Island (pictured, a file photo shows tribesmen on the island)

The North Sentinel island is out of bounds even to the Indian navy in a bid to protect its reclusive inhabitants who number only about 150

The Sentinelese tribe has attacked almost everyone who has entered their territory. Pictured, the tribes people are seen wielding arrows on the island

P.C Joshi, an anthropology professor at Delhi University who has studied the islands said that Chau 'invited aggression' and 'it was 'a foolish adventure'.

Joshi noted that the visit not only risked Chau's life, but also the lives of islanders who have little resistance to many diseases.

'They are not immune to anything. A simple thing like flu can kill them,' he said.

On his first day Chau interacted with some tribesmen - who survive by hunting, fishing and collecting wild plants - until they became angry and shot arrows at him.

The 26-year-old self-styled adventurer and Christian missionary then swam back to the fishermen's boat waiting at a safe distance.

He revealed that a boy, who he believed to be ten years old, shot him with an arrow that hit the bible he had clutched to his chest

American adventurer John Allen Chau, right, stands for a photograph with Founder of Ubuntu Football Academy Casey Prince, 39, in Cape Town, South Africa, days before he left for the remote Indian island of North Sentinel Island

That night, he wrote about his visit and left his notes with the fishermen.

He returned to North Sentinel the next day, November 16.

What happened next isn't known exactly, but on the morning of the following day, the fishermen watched from the boat as tribesmen dragged Chau's body along the beach and buried his remains.

Pathak said seven people have been arrested for helping Chau, including five fishermen, a friend of Chau's and a local tourist guide.

Chau was apparently shot and killed by arrows, but the cause of death can't be confirmed until his body is recovered, Pathak said.

He also said the police were examining whether Chau had tried earlier to visit the isolated island.

He returned two days later better prepared. He left a dinghy midway and took a canoe to the island alone

Pathak said Chau and his accomplices planned well for last week's visit by 'camouflaging the visit as fishing.'

Chau even appeared to be full of confidence in his notes, writing: 'God sheltered him from coastguard and Navy.'

In an Instagram post, his family said it was mourning him as a 'beloved son, brother, uncle and best friend to us.' The family also said it forgave his killers and called for the release of those who assisted him in his quest to reach the island.

'He ventured out on his own free will and his local contacts need not be persecuted for his own actions,' the family said.

The Sentinelese tribe are an indigenous tribe who live on North Sentinal Island, lies around 450 miles from the coast of Thailand and more than 745 miles from mainland India

Authorities say Chau arrived in the area on October 16 and stayed on another island while he prepared to travel to North Sentinel.

It was not his first time in the region: he had visited the Andaman islands in 2015 and 2016.

With help from a friend, Chau hired fishermen for $325 to take him there on a boat, Pathak said.

After the fishermen realized Chau had been killed, they left for Port Blair, the capital of the island chain, where they broke the news to Chau's friend, who in turn notified his family, Pathak said.

Police surveyed the island by air Tuesday, and a team of police and forest department officials used a coast guard boat to travel there Wednesday.

Another trip was planned for Thursday.

The Chau family posted this statement regarding his death on his Instagram account on Wednesday

Anthropology professor at Delhi University P.C. Joshi says that even minor influences can kill them the North Sengalese islanders

India has a hands-off approach to the island's people. Tribespeople killed two Indian fishermen in 2006 when their boat broke loose and drifted onto the shore, but Indian media reports say officials did not investigate or prosecute anyone in the deaths.

India recently changed some of its rules on visiting isolated regions in the Andamans.

While special permits are required, scholars say visits are now theoretically allowed in some parts of the Andamans where they used to be entirely forbidden, including North Sentinel.

Chau had no permit, police said.

Chau had wanted to go to North Sentinel to share Christianity with the indigenous people since high school.

Mat Staver, founder and chairman of Covenant Journey, a program that takes college students on tours of Israel to affirm their Christian faith, said Chau went through that program in 2015.

The Sentinelese attracted international attention in the wake of the 2004 Asian tsunami, when a member of the tribe was photographed on a beach, firing arrows at a helicopter (pictured)

'He didn't go there for just adventure. I have no question it was to bring the gospel of Jesus to them,' Staver said.

Staver said Chau's last notes to his family on November 16 told them that they might think he was crazy but he felt it was worth it and asked that they not be angry if he was killed.

Before attending Oral Roberts University, Chau had lived in southwestern Washington state and went to Vancouver Christian High School.

Phone messages left with relatives were not immediately returned Wednesday.

In this November 14, 2005 file photo, clouds hang over the North Sentinel Island, in India's southeastern Andaman and Nicobar Islands

====== 24 ========

MISSOURI MAN, 53, CHARGED WITH MURDERING WOMAN WHO REFUSED TO PERFORM SEX ACT ON HIM, WAS A PASTOR

The man charged with murdering one woman and sexually assaulting two others at a Catholic Supply store in Missouri was a pastor at a nonprofit church, a pastor at an affiliated ministry said.

Thomas Bruce, of Imperial, Missouri was arrested on Wednesday following a two-day manhunt after he allegedly shot dead a woman who refused to perform a sex act on him when he forced her into the back of the store along with two others.

David Fitzgerald, a pastor at Calvary Chapel in Maryland Heights, Missouri, told the St. Louis Post-Dispatch that Bruce had been a pastor at Calvary Chapel of Cape Girardeau.

Calvary Chapels are affiliated under the same ministry, Fitzgerald said.

The Missouri Secretary of State's office also Bruce as the leader of a nonprofit church which was formed in 2003 but dissolved in 2007, CBS reported.

Thomas Bruce , 53, a former pastor, is accused of murdering 53-year-old Jamie Schmidt. Schmidt was one of three women forced into the back of a Catholic Supply store in St. Louis, Missouri, on Monday. She was shot dead when she refused to perform a sex act on the gunman

Fitzgerald told the St. Louis paper that he and Bruce only spoke occasionally since the church folded, but that he was shocked by the nature of the crime.

'It was completely out of character for the Tom Bruce that I knew, completely surprising,' he told the Post-Dispatch.

'If it wasn't for the amount of evidence against him I would think they've got the wrong guy.'

Bruce , 53, allegedly attacked the three women at the religious supplies store in Ballwin, a southwestern suburb of St. Louis, on Monday.

He allegedly entered the store at around 3.30pm, pretending to be a customer then forced Jamie Schmidt, a 53-year-old married mother-of-three, and two other women who have not been named into the back at gunpoint where he forced them to take off their clothes.

The killing happened inside this Catholic Supply store in St. Louis, Missouri, on Monday

It is unclear if the two victims who survived were employees of the supply store or customers. Afterwards, the gunman fled the scene

It is unclear if the other women were employees of the store or customers.

After forcing them into the back room, Bruce is said to have ordered them to perform unspecified sexual acts and when Schmidt refused, he shot her dead.

The other two women complied.

Police would not specify what they were made to do beyond saying they were forced to 'continue performing deviant sexual acts on him.'

Afterwards, the gunman fled the scene.

Bruce was arrested at his trailer on Wednesday after a tip from a member of the public led police to him.

According to The St. Louis Dispatch, neighbors saw 100 police officers surround the trailer on Wednesday before he was taken into custody

Schmidt's husband described her as an 'angel'. The other two women have not been named

He has been charged with 17 criminal counts including murder, kidnapping, multiple counts of sodomy, armed criminal action, burglary and tampering with evidence.

He is yet to enter a plea and he is being held without bail.

Bruce lived in the trailer with his wife Diane, according to neighbors.

He has no criminal record and police have never been called to their house before.

According to The St. Louis Dispatch, neighbors saw 100 police officers surround the trailer on Wednesday before he was taken into custody.

Schmidt's grieving family has paid tribute to her since, describing her as an 'angel' who was committed to the church.

'She was my angel, my partner, my best friend and the love of my life.

'I'm sorry if you never got to hear her sing recently because it gave me chills,' her husband Gregg wrote on Facebook after her death.

====== 25 ========

GEORGIA MAN, 20, DETAINED FOR FATALLY SHOOTING PREGNANT 14-YEAR-OLD TEEN

A man has been arrested for shooting dead a pregnant 14-year-old girl who was babysitting her sister's children when she was hit by a bullet from an upstairs Atlanta apartment.

Souleyman Diallo, 20, was charged with second-degree murder for the killing of 14-year-old Sonja Star Harrison and her unborn child, according to local police.

Family members say Sonja 'Star' Harrison was an eighth-grader from Stone Mountain who was expected to give birth next month the day before New Year's.

Souleyman Diallo, 20, was charged with second-degree murder for the killing of 14-year-old Sonja Star Harrison and her unborn child, according to local police

Harrison was shot on Monday at the Pavilion Place Apartments after a gunshot went through the floor of an upstairs apartment and struck her in the head. She had been babysitting her young nephews at the time.

Sonja's mother, Sonja Denise Harrison, shared that she had learned of the arrest but asserted that she wasn't aware of any connections between the two.

'Folks saying he's the baby's father,' she told the Atlanta Journal Constitution. 'He is not the father. He is not the father.'

Harrison was shot on Monday at the Pavilion Place Apartments after a gunshot went through the floor of an upstairs apartment and struck her in the head. She had been babysitting her young nephews at the time

Sonja's mother, Sonja Denise Harrison, shared that she had learned of the arrest but asserted that she wasn't aware of any connections between the two

The mother would not provide any new details until she spoke with her lawyer.

Harrison was loved and 'a people person,' according to her mother, and was also described as being 'sweet, bright and helpful'.

The girl was expected to give birth on the day before New Year's Day

The teen planned to go into the army after graduating high school.

'She wanted to have a better future for her and her baby,' her mother said. 'Only thing I can tell you about my child is that she will be totally missed. She will be so much missed just like that bundle of joy she was carrying.'

A candlelight vigil will be held at 6pm on December 4 at the apartments.

Diallo was also charged with reckless conduct and possession of a firearm.

He has a number of other convictions, including shoplifting, disorderly conduct, cruelty to children, willful obstruction of law enforcement, public drunkeness, public indency, possession of a controlled substances and probation violations.

He had been let out of jail on October 18 for a shoplifting charge.

====== 26 ========

PEOPLE DRAG TRISTAN THOMPSON AFTER HE POSTS A THANKSGIVING PICTURE WITH KHLOE KARDASHIAN

Tristan Thompson has been dragged through the comments by upset fans after sharing a picture with Khloe Kardashian and their daughter, True Thompson, in celebration of Thanksgiving.

The 27-year-old basketball player took on the hate Thursday after posting the picture because of his cheating scandal that was revealed earlier this year just days before Khloe, 34, gave birth to True, who is seven months old.

'I'm soo blessed. Happy Thanksgiving from my family to yours #GiveThanks #Blessed,' Tristan wrote on his Instagram caption from his home in Cleveland, Ohio.

Thankful: Tristan Thompson, 27, shared a picture with Khloe Kardashian, 34, and their daughter, True Thompson, on Thursday in celebration of Thanksgiving

Not having it: But fans were upset about the post because it was revealed earlier this year that Tristan cheated on Khloe while she was pregnant

Undeserving: Fans called out Tristan for treating Khloe horribly during their relationship

Savage: The comments were filled with attacks against the basketball player

Hurtful: Some comments asked Tristan if he was going to see other women on Thanksgiving

Mad: One person wanted to know about any potential 'side chicks'

Fans used the picture as a moment to comment and remind the basketball player just how blessed he was to still have Khloe and True in his life amid the controversy.

'LMAO such a beautiful family to be destroying over women who only want ur money,' one person commented. 'Smh they deserve better.'

Another person was in agreement, writing: 'You don't deserve them.'

The comments only got worse as people attacked Tristan for other potential women he was with while also being in a relationship with Khloe.

'He sure doesn't act blessed running around with different women,' a commenter wrote on the picture.

Upset and hateful comments towards Tristan have ignited again with Keeping Up With the Kardashians currently airing episodes surrounding the cheating scandal and True's birth.

Kim Kardashian, 38, spoke about the difficulty of covering the scandal on the reality show while attending The Ellen Show earlier this week.

'It is awkward, especially for maybe Tristan, who isn't used to this,' Kim said.

Curious: Other people wanted to know where Tristan's son, Prince Oliver, was for the holiday

Unimpressed: Fans thought Tristan appeared to be paying more attention to True than his first born, Prince

Heated: Tristan was in a relationship with another women before his relationship with Khloe, and the pair had a son together

Forgiving: One person seemed to be on Tristan's side and respected the player for working through his relationship with Khloe

Cute: Prince (pictured with his mom, Jordan Craig) was actually in Los Angeles, California, for the holiday instead of spending it with this dad

'Unfortunately, that was what was going on in our lives. So, six months later, when it replays and they've gotten through what they needed to get through and it's rehashed in front of everyone and everyone's giving their opinions all over again and we're live-tweeting and everyone's chiming in.

'That is hard for Khloé and I'm sure for Tristan, but it's our reality.'

Khloe and Tristan appear to be working on their relationship, especially with their shared daughter, but commenters couldn't help put mention the other potential women in the basketball players life.

'What's your other girl doing today? Or will you see her later?' One person commented on the picture.

Another person wrote: 'Did you remember to have dinner with side chick oh sorry chicks***'

Besides critiques on Tristan cheating on Khloe, other people wanted to know his relationship with his son, Prince Oliver, who he had with a woman named Jordan Craig before meeting Khloe.

The tot, who will turn two in December, was not in attendance at his dad's Thanksgiving feast. Instead, Jordan shared a picture of herself with Prince in Los Angeles, California, on Thanksgiving.

Special moments: Khloe opted to share a picture of herself with True on the holiday instead of posting the family picture

Ready to eat mom! Baby True wore a cute pastel pink outfit with embellished headband

'Where is your little man???' One commenter asked. 'Doesn't the fam include him??'

Khloe shared the same picture with Tristan on her Instagram story. But on her actual page, she just posted a picture with True.

'Thankful you picked me,' Khloe wrote for the caption while showing off the picture with True at the table set for Thanksgiving.

The mother-daughter duo coordinated together in pink outfits as Khloe wore a fitted pink skirt and long-sleeved crop top while True was a vision in a little ballerina skirt and matching cardigan.

By opting for Thanksgiving in Cleveland, Khloe and True missed out on the Kardashian festivities back at Kylie Jenner's home in Palm Springs, California; Khloe was the only sister missing from the family affair.

Tristan's holiday post is certainly not the first time he has faced fury and criticism from Instagram users.

Shortly after it was revealed that he had cheated on Khloe earlier this year, Tristan deleted his Instagram account after his posts were inundated with comments from people blasting him over his infidelity.

Since then, Khloe's most dedicated fans have been regularly trolling his posts with comments about the cheating scandal, however he appears to have learned to ignore them in the months since his daughter was born.

====== 27 ========

ONE OF THE LAST SURVIVORS OF THE 1921 TULSA RACE RIOT DIES AGE 103

A woman who was six years old during the 1921 Tulsa race riot, one of the worst race riots in U.S. history, has died aged 103.

Olivia Hooker was a small child when the riot, that began on May 31, destroyed much of a Tulsa neighborhood that had been known as 'Black Wall Street.'

She told National Public Radio in an interview this year that she hid under a table as a mob of torch-carrying people destroyed her family's home.

Olivia Hooker (pictured in 2005) was 6 when the riot, that began on May 31, destroyed much of a Tulsa neighborhood that had been known as 'Black Wall Street'

The violence began after a black man allegedly assaulted a white woman in an elevator. The number of deaths was never confirmed and varies from about three dozen to 300.

Hooker's goddaughter, Janis Porter, says her godmother died Wednesday at their home in White Plains, New York.

The cause of her death isn't known. She had no immediate survivors.

Dr Hooker was born in Muskogee, Oklahoma on February 12, 1915, and was one of five children.

Dr Hooker taught in an elementary school after graduating from Ohio State University. She got her master's degree in psychology from Teachers College at Columbia University before going on to earn a doctorate from the University of Rochester.

She was among the first black women to serve in the Coast Guard and became an associate professor of psychology at Fordham University in New York.

Dr. Hooker was among the first black women to serve in the Coast Guard and became an associate professor of psychology at Fordham University in New York

Tulsa Mayor G.T. Bynum announced in early October that he plans to re-examine whether mass graves hold remains of those killed as the 100 year anniversary of the Tulsa race riot draws near.

He said a man who was a child in 1921 told a state commission studying the massacre that he remembered seeing bodies dumped in a cemetery.

'Councilor [Jack] Henderson and I turned our findings over to the City Administration, but nothing ever came of it,' Bynum wrote on Facebook.

'I promised myself that if I ever became mayor and had the authority to direct further examination I would,' he added.

There are three main potential sites that will be investigated. The first is Newblock Park.

The second is Booker T. Washington Cemetery, 'where previously marked graves were found in a disturbed state by researchers in the late 1990s,' Bynum said in his Facebook post.

Lastly, the Oaklawn Cemetery will be investigated. On one side of the cemetery, there is a grassy field with no marked graves, according to Bynum.

If there are unmarked graves, the investigative team will then determine their nature to see if the bodies are consistent with the violence from the massacre or if they appear to be the remains of people who died from natural causes.

The mayor added he plans to speak with archaeological experts to come up with minimally invasive ways to look for mass graves in the three locations.

'We do not begin this process with a certain outcome. We may not find any mass graves. Or we may. Tulsans are compassionate and supportive toward victims of violent crime - and that standard should apply whether they are victims in 2018 or 1921,' Bynum wrote.

'This is a matter of basic human decency,' he added.

====== 28 ========

SMALL 2.7 MAGNITUDE EARTHQUAKE HITS NORTHWEST GEORGIA

A 2.7 magnitude earthquake has struck in northwest Georgia.

The earthquake occurred near Calhoun, Georgia at 9.59am on Friday, according to the US Geological Survey. There were no immediate reports of injuries or damage.

'For those who heard a loud boom at approximately 10 a.m., the USGS has reported that our area experienced a 2.7 earthquake, the Gordon County Emergency Management Agency said in a statement.

The star shows the location of the earthquake in Georgia on Friday morning

'We have verified with 911 that everything is ok in Gordon County,' the statement said.

Though earthquakes are not frequent in the area, there have been several small ones in the past several years.

In August, a 1.9 magnitude quake struck near Villanow, in Walker County.

In January, a 2.7 quake was reported in Catoosa County, near Fort Oglethorpe.

====== 29 ========

MINNESOTA HOME IS OBLITERATED BY MASSIVE EXPLOSION WHICH FIREFIGHTERS SAY WAS CAUSED BY A GAS LEAK

A Minnesota house has been obliterated by an explosion which firefighters say was caused by a leak from the natural gas line which runs beneath it.

The home in St. Paul blew up on Friday at 8.40am while its occupant, an unidentified man in his sixties, was inside. He survived the explosion and has suffered scrapes and burns but is expected to survive.

The two-bedroom home was reduced to debris which was sent flying all over the street.

Other homes and businesses have been evacuated while firefighters and emergency crews work to determine the exact source of the leak.

One firefighter told CBS Minnesota they were '95 percent sure' it had come from the natural gas line.

The house was reduced to rubble after the explosion at 8.40am on Friday. Firefighters say it was caused by a gas line underneath the home

The extent of the damage was extraordinary. Debris flew all over the street and into neighboring properties' land

‹ Slide me › Before and after images show where the house once stood (left) and what is left of it now (right)

Before: The two-bedroom home sits in between another, larger home, and a business premises. Its owner has not been identified

The gas line is run by Xcel Energy which is now working with firefighters to cut off its supply.

In a statement, the company said: 'Our thoughts are with the residents affected by this incident.

'We are working with fire officials and emergency responders on the scene, and our emergency responders have completed safety checks of the area to confirm it is safe.

'We will coordinate with fire officials on the investigation into the cause of the incident.

'Protecting the safety of the public and of our employees is a core value and we take it very seriously.'

Witnesses described hearing a loud boom as the house exploded. Eleven people were displaced as a result of the explosion and subsequent evacuation.

'Crews arrived to find, I don't want to say a disaster, but an explosion,' the St Paul Fire Chief said at a press conference on Friday morning. 'A lot of debris had crossed into the streets.

'We did find one victim and he was taken to a local hospital.

'We also have the surrounding structures that have received a lot of damage, we will be determining what that is in the coming hours and days.

'Obviously it's pretty extensive.'

Several fire trucks responded to the scene of the accident on Friday morning. Only the man who was inside the house was hurt and he survived with scrapes and burns

A firefighter combs through the rubble of where the house once stood. The property adjacent to it was also severely damaged by flying debris

Teams of fire fighters continued to work at the site throughout the morning as the energy company which controls the gas line turned its supply off

====== 30 ========

PRINCESS BEATRICE'S NEW BOYFRIEND SUDDENLY SPLIT FROM THE MOTHER OF HIS TWO-YEAR-OLD SON

The Royal Family has got used to marital complications — and has always managed to overcome them. Just the other week, Princess Beatrice unveiled Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi to her parents Prince Andrew and the Duchess of York as her ‘boyfriend’.

Their two families have known each other closely for many years, so it was a bit of a surprise.

More to the point, Edo, as he is known, was sharing his life and his London home with a glamorous Chinese-American, Dara Huang, with whom he has a two-year-old son, Christopher Woolf.

But no one was more surprised at the news that he was dating the Queen’s 30-year-old grand-daughter than Dara’s mother, Lily, who flew to London from her home in Florida when her grandson Wolfie was born, and has made two visits since.

The next royal bride? Princess Beatrice pictured at her sister Eugenie’s wedding last month

She says she had no idea her daughter and Edo were no longer together until she was told by her elder daughter, Erin, recently.

‘I think Dara was hiding it from me,’ says Lily, 69, whose husband Po-Tien, 80, is a retired scientist with the American space agency Nasa. ‘She didn’t want me to be sad. I am shocked.’

She believes it came as a shock to her daughter as well, so sudden was the split.

According to Lily, her 37-year-old daughter had to leave Edo’s flat and was staying with a close friend, sleeping on the sofa, while looking for an apartment.

A highly-successful architect with her own design company and international clients, Dara also has to travel a great deal.

Clearly, in these circumstances it was sensible to leave her young son with his father, especially as she and Edo had engaged a nanny who remains with the child in Edo’s home.

Pictured: Princess Beatrice's new boyfriend Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi with his son Wolfie

Her mother says that now Dara ‘comes back early from her work and goes to see Wolfie so she can give him a bath before he goes to bed at seven or eight o’clock. It is a terrible situation.’

She adds: ‘I love Edo. I love his family. Why has this happened? This has broken me to bits.’ For her part, Beatrice is said to have been seeing the handsome 35-year-old property tycoon since September, a month before younger sister Eugenie was married at Windsor in a ceremony that Prince Andrew wished to match that of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle.

So just how long was the gap between Dara’s departure and her being replaced by Beatrice in his life?

According to a close family friend of Edo, he and Dara split six months ago.

A palace aide who has known the princess all her life observes: ‘She would never allow herself to break into another couple’s happiness, especially if there was a small child.’

The fact is, this latest royal romance is viewed as moving so fast that, on both sides, some are talking of a possible engagement next year.

This means Beatrice would be the first among the young generation of royals to take on a stepchild.

Edoardo's ex, Chinese-American Dara Huang, the mother of two-year-old Christopher Woolf

The Duchess of Cornwall, of course, has become a stepmother to William and Harry and a stepgrandmother to Wills and Kate’s children George, Charlotte and Louis.

It isn’t hard to imagine what was going through Beatrice’s mind when, four months ago, her long-term boyfriend Dave Clark, a former Richard Branson employee and Uber executive, married New York advertising figure Lynn Anderson. The princess and Clark had spent ten happy years together before they parted, quite suddenly, in 2016.

What happened was simple enough. Beatrice is understood to have given him an ultimatum — not unknown in such circumstances: she wanted marriage or they would have to go their separate ways.

To her dismay, Clark decided he wasn’t ready yet to settle down.

Since then, and until recently, there has been no significant man in her life.

She certainly seemed a somewhat solitary figure accompanying her mother, Fergie, into St George’s Chapel, Windsor, at younger sister Eugenie’s colourful wedding to drinks company ambassador Jack Brooksbank.

According to Dara Huang's mother, she had to leave Edo’s flat and was staying with a close friend, sleeping on the sofa, while looking for an apartment

So just how would the exotic-sounding Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi blend into the Royal Family?

Of course family pedigree, once so important, has been irrelevant to the royals in recent times.

Even so, Edo’s aristocratic background would certainly cheer traditionalists — he is descended from Italian nobility. His father is former Olympic Alpine skier Count Alessandro Mapelli Mozzi, 67, who represented Great Britain at the 1972 Winter Olympics in Japan.

But the count and Edo’s mother divorced when Edo and his sister, Natalia, were very young, and his father later moved to France.

Edo’s mother, Nikki, remarried and he was brought up to become very close to his businessman stepfather, Christopher Shale. The Briton was former Prime Minister David Cameron’s ever-buoyant constituency chairman and close personal friend in Chipping Norton, Oxfordshire.

Beatrice and Edo kept their relationship quiet until both were confident enough to ‘come out’ as a couple

Shale was a devoted royalist, and an admirer of Princess Diana, writing to The Times on the day after her dramatic BBC TV Panorama interview: ‘With the Princess of Wales as his mother . . . Prince William has every chance of becoming an outstanding monarch for the 21st century. Every genuine monarchist should rejoice.’

As for the link between Shale’s family and Fergie’s, it goes back many years to before she became Duchess of York, when he employed her as a secretary in a public relations company that promoted luxury goods.

So devoted was Edo to his stepfather that he named his son Christopher after him.

No wonder the unexpected death of Christopher Shale at the age of 56, in 2011, hit the clan hard.

Shale was with family and friends at the Glastonbury Festival when he collapsed and died of a sudden heart attack.

The location of his death inevitably led to unfounded gossipy speculation about what might have caused the coronary.

He had been missing for about 18 hours when his body was found in a portable toilet cubicle inside the festival’s VIP area.

An inquest subsequently found he had been suffering from undiagnosed heart disease resulting from high blood pressure. A verdict of natural causes was recorded.

After the inquest, Radley and Edinburgh University-educated Edo spoke movingly of the family’s loss.

For her part, Beatrice is said to have been seeing the handsome 35-year-old property tycoon (pictured) since September, a month before younger sister Eugenie was married at Windsor

‘He was a father to me, the only father I have ever known and a father to all three of us,’ he said. ‘The best father we could ever have.’

He was referring to himself, his sister and their half-brother Alby, 27 (Fergie’s godson), born to Shale and Edo’s mother.

Andrew and Fergie, together with daughters Beatrice and Eugenie, were among the congregation at Shale’s memorial service in Oxfordshire.

With the two families so entwined, Beatrice and Edo kept their relationship quiet until both were confident enough to ‘come out’ as a couple.

They did so at a party thrown by London-based Indian steel magnate Lakshmi Mittal, who is said to be worth £14 billion.

Edo himself is seen as a young man financially on the way up, having founded the property consultancy Banda, which specialises in locating and developing upmarket homes for the rich.

‘He’s not a party animal who jets about with a smart set,’ says a close family friend.

‘In fact, for the past decade he’s worked non-stop to build up and make a success of his business.’

According to a close family friend of Edo, he and Dara (pictured) split six months ago

While some of his stepfather’s charm has undoubtedly rubbed off on him, friends say Edo also has a ‘cocky’ side — revealed nine years ago when he stumped up £200,000 for a property, describing the sum as ‘peanuts’.

And he has a touch of the waggishness of his late business consultant stepfather that can be found in the choice of name for his Kensington-based company.

Banda means ‘big shed’ in Swahili, the main language in Kenya, where the family have a coastal holiday estate on Lamu.

One major clue that this latest royal romance is serious lies in his decision to switch his Instagram account (with more than 10,000 followers) from public to private.

Who else do we know who has taken that discreet route when royal marriage was in the air?

Meghan Markle, of course, in advance of her engagement to Prince Harry who, incidentally, is an acquaintance of Edo — they were both guests at a society wedding in Italy four years ago.

Fergie is thrilled that Beatrice is going out with a young man she has known all her life.

‘How sweet it is that two families who have known each other for so many years can think that something permanent might come of this,’ says a friend.

And yet, whatever happens now, memories of the until-recent intimacy that Edo shared with his young son’s mother, Dara Huang, will not easily go away.

Not just because of young Wolfie — whom they lovingly had studio-photographed when he was just a few months old for a picture they each keep with them — but also professionally.

For each, surprisingly perhaps, has been making almost identical statements in interviews and online posts about the ‘vast swathes’ of empty commercial buildings in London and other towns which could be converted into homes at a time of severe housing shortage.

As for what they once had, there remain some intriguing reminders, Edo referring to his child’s mother in a picture on her Instagram as ‘the one and only’ and Dara using his initials on the caption of a picture of him outside 10 Downing Street to refer to ‘my beautiful EMM’.

As Edo’s close family friend told us: ‘More than anything his focus is on Wolfie’s welfare and to that end he and Dara have been trying to get along as best they can.’

As for the future, at 59, Fergie would love to see her elder daughter married, and the portents are good.

Not so, alas, for Edo’s ex’s mother Lily, who mourns the disappearance of a young man she viewed as her virtual son-in-law.

‘Before this, my daughter was happy,’ she says. ‘But now she has cried with her sister.

‘But I am a Christian. I told my daughter: “You have to bless people, you bless them, don’t be mad. Wish them good luck.”’

It remains to be seen whether this sensible advice will prevail.

Additional reporting, Emily Kent Smith in America.

====== 31 ========

MAN FINDS SAFE CONTAINING $7.5M INSIDE STORAGE UNIT BOUGHT FROM DAN DOTSON

A lucky bargain hunter who bought a storage unit for $500 opened it up to find a safe containing $7.5million inside.

The find was revealed by Storage Wars TV show star Dan Dotson and his wife Laura.

Dan explained that a lady came over to him while at the Cars, Stars and Rock N’ Roll charity auction event in Indio, California, and said she had a story to tell him.

The buyer of the unit found $7.5million (£5.8million) in cash (pictured left and right) inside the storage unit they bought for $500 (£390) at an auction done by Storage Wars host Dan Dotson

In a video on Twitter Dan explained the lady said: 'My husband works for a guy and he bought a unit from you for $500 (£390) and it had a safe in it.

'The first person that they called to open the safe couldn't, or didn't.

'They called a second person and when that person opened it up ... inside the safe they're normally empty, but this time it wasn't empty. It had $7.5million (£5.8million) cash inside.'

After the discovery was made Dan said things got complicated and the new owners were contacted by an attorney representing the original owners of the unit.

He told the Blast that the woman claimed the new owner was offered a $600,000 (£465,000) reward for the return of the cash.

The new owners reportedly declined, but did accept a second offer to keep $1.2 million (£930,000) and give back the other $6.3 million of the find.

The Storage Wars star did not disclose the identity of the lucky buyer of the unit or the woman who told him. He also didn't say when or where it had been purchased.

There are many other intriguing details he did not reveal to fans online, such as why there was an apparently abandoned safe inside, who owned the storage space originally or where the money came from.

An attorney representing the original owners of the unit told the new owner he could keep $600,000 of the cash if he gave the rest back, the attorney then upped the offer to $1.2 million

Dan and Laura Dotson (pictured) shared the amazing find on social media and asked their followers if they would have kept the cash or given it back

Dan and Laura asked their followers what they'd do with the money - if they'd keep it or give it back.

Writing on Facebook they said: 'Attorney reaches out on behalf of the previous owner & nicely offers 1.2 million dollars back in return for all money back.

'What would you do?'

Hundreds of people responded to the post on Facebook and Twitter, debating what the correct thing to do was.

One person wrote: 'If they had that much money, why didn't they pay for the storage unit? Why would you put money in there anyway.'

Another said: 'I'd keep it! Why the hell didn't they claim it, why the hell would they let it sit until someone bought the locker?'

====== 32 ========

ROYAL INSIDER REVEALS WHY THE QUEEN WILL NEVER ABDICATE

A royal insider has opened up about why the Queen will never abdicate in favour of her son Prince Charles, as she's keen to 'ride the wave' of popularity that younger family members have brought to the monarchy.

Speaking to Yahoo News' series The Royal Box True Royalty TV editor in chief and co-founder and award-winning documentary filmmaker, Nick Bullen, opened up about his years working closely with and observing the royal family.

After producing countless programmes about the royals, including Ant and Dec's 2015 TV documentary with Prince Charles, Nick is firmly of the opinion that 'abdication will never happen' - and not just because of her incredible sense of duty.

'I think the Queen sees what those boys and their wives bring, I also wonder whether she even throws forward to the great grandchildren,' he explained.

'Princess Charlotte, already at the age of 3, knows how to work a crowd. Maybe now through her grandchildren she can see a way of just staying on the crest of that wave.'

Scroll down for video

The Queen is enoying the popularity that younger members of the royal family such as the Duchess of Sussex, pictured with Her Majesty in Cheshire in June, bring to the monarchy and is determined to keep 'riding the wave', according to royal insider Nick Bullen

She's only three years old, but Princess Charlotte's supremely confident nature has helped to given the monarchy a popularity boos (pictured at Princess Eugenie's wedding in October)

Nick said that Prince Charles is more than ready to become King, but believes the royal could easily be 80-years-old by the time it happens.

The "a word" is a really dirty word at the palace. Many people say becoming the King is what ultimately killed her father.

'Her mother lived to 101. The Queen is there for the long run…she could live for at least another 10 years.

'She’s seen it all, she’s done it all, she is the ultimate working mother and working woman, and I don’t think she’s going anywhere, anytime soon.'

Prince Charles could be 80-years-old by the time he takes the throne, unless his mother decides to abdicate

In 1936 Edward VIII ascended the throne after the death of his father George V. He made clear his intentions to marry his America mistress Wallis Simpson as soon as her second divorce came through.

It caused a national scandal and the church of England decreed he couldn't marry a divorcee with two living former husbands.

Wallis went to live in exile in France to escape the pressure, and in December 1936 Edward abdicated so they could marry.

His brother George VI, the Queen's father, ascended the throne and reigned for 16 years until his death at the age of 56 in 1952.

The Queen's uncle Edward and his wife Wallis Simpson in 1937. He abdicated less than a year after taking the throne so that he could marry his twice divorced American mistress

Last year, palace sources indicated that plans were afoot which, if implemented, would see Charles appointed King in all but name.

the Queen has told her inner circle that, if she is still on the throne at the age of 95, she will ask for a piece of legislation called the Regency Act to come into force – granting her eldest son full power to reign even while she still lives.

In 2017, Charles was appointed the Queen's successor as Head of the Commonwealth and she has been increasingly handing over patronages and royal duties to younger family members in recent years.

====== 33 ========

HOUSTON TEXANS FOUNDER AND OWNER MCNAIR DIES AT 81

Robert 'Bob' McNair, billionaire founder and owner of the Houston Texans, has died aged 81.

One of the NFL's most influential owners, McNair had battled both leukemia and squamous cell carcinoma, a form of skin cancer, in recent years before dying in Houston on Friday.

The team did not immediately release a cause of death, but said he died peacefully with his wife Janice and his family by his side.

'He was a very caring, thoughtful and passionate individual,' coach Bill O'Brien said in a statement. 'As much as he cared about winning, I think the thing I will remember most about Mr. McNair is the way he cared about the players.'

When Houston lost the Oilers to Tennessee after the 1996 season, McNair made it his mission to return the NFL to the city.

Texans owner Robert 'Bob' McNair walks on the turf before an AFC Wild Card NFL game between the Texans and the Oakland Raiders, in Houston on January 7, 2017. McNair passed away on Friday at age 81

McNair, right, greets players after the team's win over Jacksonville Jaguars in an NFL football game in Houston on January 3, 2016. McNair battled both leukemia and squamous cell carcinoma in recent years

McNair, right, owner of the Houston Texans, talks with country music singer Larry Gatlin, left, along with President George W. Bush and President George H.W. Bush at Reliant Stadium on November 17, 2013 in Houston

He formed Houston NFL Holdings in 1998, and on Oct. 6, 1999 he was awarded the 32nd NFL franchise. The Texans began play in 2002.

'He was the reason professional football returned to Houston and he (led) our franchise with a laser focus on honesty, integrity and high character,' team president Jamey Rootes said in a statement.

'He was an amazing champion for Houston and worked hard to make sure our city received maximum value from the presence of the Texans and the NFL.'

A powerful force in the NFL, McNair served as chairman of the league's finance committee and as a member of the audit committee.

In August 2014 he spoke candidly about his battle with cancer, and outlined the many procedures and treatments he endured to recover.

'In the past, if you mentioned cancer, people thought it's a death sentence,' McNair said at that time. 'That's just not nearly the case.'

It was then he revealed he'd dealt with skin cancer for about 20 years.

He also noted then that he'd remain in charge of the team, but would work on delegating responsibilities to other members of his staff.

The Robert C. McNair trophy was presented to Texas Longhorns after defeating Missouri in the Texas Bowl at NRG Stadium, Wednesday, December 27, 2017, in Houston

'We're in terrific shape,' McNair said. 'I'll continue being the CEO and continue doing everything I can to put together a winning football team; that's what we're all about. We've won this other battle, and now we've got to win the battle of football.

'I go to all the games and I'll plan on continuing doing that,' McNair added. 'I think I will enjoy it more and leave it to other people in the organization to worry more. I'll skip the worrying and take the enjoyment.'

He continued to attend many games after that pronouncement and was often seen at practice under the shade of a golf cart or talking with various staff members around the facility.

After several difficult building years as an expansion team, the Texans won their first AFC South title and first playoff berth in 2011.

They also won the division title a year later when they went a franchise-best 12-4. Both years they lost in the divisional round of the playoffs.

McNair made the agonizing decision to fire longtime friend and coach Gary Kubiak late in the following season as the Texans limped to 2-14, tying a franchise record for losses. He hired O'Brien in 2014 and the team improved to 9-7 in his first year, but missed the postseason.

(L-R) Robert McNair, Janice McNair, Margaret Alkek Williams, Hannah McNair and Cal McNair attend The 2nd Annual UNICEF Audrey Hepburn Society Ball Presented to Robert & Janice McNair at the at Wortham Center Brown Theater on October 14, 2014 in Houston

Houston put up an identical record in 2015, but this time in a weak AFC South it was enough to reach the postseason for the third time. That season ended with an embarrassing 30-0 wild-card loss to Kansas City.

In March 2016, McNair beamed as he sat next to quarterback Brock Osweiler on the day the team introduced him in Houston, and seemed unfazed by the staggering $72 million, four-year contract they gave Osweiler to lure him from Denver.

'We just want to get better every day,' McNair said. 'Certainly this is a day when we got a lot better.'

Not exactly. Osweiler struggled and his name was added to a long list of quarterbacks who couldn't help the owner get the title he so longed for.

Osweiler was benched late in the 2016 season before getting his job back (through injury to his replacement) in time for the playoffs.

But he threw three interceptions in a loss to New England in the divisional round, and Houston had seen enough and shipped him to Cleveland a few months later.

WHAT IS SQUAMOUS CELL CARCINOMA? Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is the uncontrolled growth of abnormal cells in the upper layers of the skin. It often looks like scaly red patches, open sores, elevated growths with a central dip or warts, all of which may crust or bleed. They can become disfiguring or life-threatening if allowed to grow. More than one million people are diagnosed with SCC every year in the US. Its UK prevalence is unclear. SCC is mainly caused by overexposure to UV light from the sun or tanning beds. People are more likely to suffer if they: Have fair hair or skin

Work outdoors

Are over 50

Have a personal or family history of the disease

Have a suppressed immune system, such as chemotherapy or AIDS patients Squamous cell carcinoma often looks like scaly red patches or open sores Although SCC can occur anywhere on the body, it is most common on areas exposed to the sun, such as the face and hands. SCCs spotted at an early stage and removed promptly are mostly curable and cause minimal damage. Treatment typically includes surgery to remove the growth, as well as radiotherapy and topical drugs. People can reduce their risk of developing the disorder by: Wearing a high-factor sun cream that is reapplied at least every two hours, or more if swimming

Covering up with clothing

Seeking shade between 10am and 4pm

Not using UV tanning beds Source: Skin Cancer Foundation

The Texans drafted Deshaun Watson in the first round in 2017 to replace Osweiler, but he sustained a season-ending knee injury in a year when star defensive end J.J.

Watt also missed most of the season with a broken leg. Houston went 4-12 in the last full season McNair would see.

McNair came under fire in 2017 when he said 'we can't have the inmates running the prison' during a meeting of the NFL owners about players who protest social and racial injustice by kneeling during the national anthem.

McNair issued two apologies after the remarks became public, calling it a 'very regretful comment.'

In response, almost all of the Texans kneeled during the anthem before their game against the Seahawks on Oct. 29, 2017 after no one on the team had kneeled before.

McNair was born in Tampa and graduated from South Carolina in 1958 with a bachelor of science degree.

Houston Texans NFL football team owner Robert 'Bob' McNair arrives for meetings at the league headquarters in New York on October 17, 2017

He received an honorary doctor of humane letters degree from South Carolina in 1999, and in 2010 was given an honorary doctor of humanities in medicine degree from Baylor College of Medicine.

He and Janice moved to Houston in 1960 and he made his fortune as the founder of Cogen Technologies, an energy company which was sold to Enron in 1999 for $1.5 billion.

The couple has been committed to charity in the city, and he was the chairman of The Robert and Janice McNair Foundation, The Robert and Janice McNair Educational Foundation in Forest City, North Carolina, and the Houston Texans Foundation.

Through these efforts the McNairs have given more than $500 million to scientific, religious, educational and literary organizations.

He also founded the AdvoCare Texas Bowl, which has provided more than $700,000 in funds to the DePelchin Children's Center in Houston.

Along with his wife, McNair is survived by four children, 15 grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.

====== 34 ========

TIJUANA DECLARES 'HUMANITARIAN CRISIS' AND ASKS FOR HELP FROM THE UNITED NATIONS

The mayor of Tijuana has declared a humanitarian crisis in his border city and is asking the United Nations for aid to deal with 5,000 Central American migrants who arrived there.

The comments by Mayor Juan Manuel Gastelum came as city officials and volunteers worked together to assist the 4,976 men, women and children who traveled there and are sleeping outside and inside a sports complex.

The Trump administration has spent weeks lambasting the caravan, which it said was filled with criminals, gang members and even — it insinuated at one point without any proof — terrorists.

Migrants rest as they wait at the El Chaparral port of entry border crossing between Mexico and the United States

Thousands of migrants remain at a shelter near the US-Mexico border fence in Tijuana

Manuel Figueroa, who leads the city's social services department, said Tijuana was bringing in portable toilets and showers, as well as shampoo and soap.

'Because of the absence, the apathy and the abandonment of the federal government, we are having to turn to international institutions like the UN', Figueroa said.

Rene Vazquez, 60, a Tijuana resident who was volunteering at the stadium, said Mexico's federal government ignored the problem by allowing the caravan to cross the country without stopping. Now the city of 1.6 million is stuck with the fallout.

'I don't have anything against the migrants, they were the most deceived, but this is affecting us all', Vazquez said.

Gastelum vowed not to commit the city's public resources to dealing with the situation.

On Thursday, his government issued a statement saying that it was requesting help from the UN's Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.

Vazquez, who plays on a soccer team that uses the sports complex, said Mexico should step up now and process humanitarian visas for the group so they can start looking for work.

Tijuana Mayor Juan Manuel Gastelum (left) has criticized Donald Trump (right) for threatening to close the border entirely if 'it gets to a level where we are going to lose control'

An aerial view of shelters where members of the Central American migrant caravan are staying in the city of Tijuana

Meanwhile, since his soccer team can no longer practice at the complex, he was spending time passing out donated pizzas and roasted chicken to the migrants.

The migrant caravan that left Honduras in mid-October was mostly well received by the towns it passed through along the way to the border.

Even cities with few resources made sure the migrants had food and a place to rest.

But in those places, the caravan stayed at most two nights — with the exception of Mexico City.

In Tijuana, many of the migrants who are fleeing violence and poverty are seeking asylum in the United States and face the prospect of spending months in the border city before they have the opportunity to speak with a US official.

Gastelum said Friday that the Mexican government has talked about sending 20 tons of resources to Tijuana to help but that three-fourths consisted of materials to reinforce the border and only 5 tons were for the migrants.

A Central American migrant is seen inside a tent at a shelter near the US-Mexico border fence

A young man plays with a child at a makeshift center where thousands of migrants are staying

Fabiola Izaguirre and her brother Josue, both of Honduras, begin to wake up after sleeping near the Chaparral border crossing in Tijuana

The mayor also criticized the federal government for not taking more seriously President Donald Trump's threat Thursday to shut down the border if his administration determined Mexico had lost 'control' of the situation in Tijuana.

'That's serious,' he said.

The migrants also were receiving support from local churches, private citizens who have been providing food, as well as various agencies of the Baja California state government, which says it identified 7,000 job openings for those who qualify.

Adelaida Gonzalez, 37, of Guatemala City arrived in Tijuana three days ago and was having a hard time adjusting.

She was tired of sleeping on a blanket on a dirt field, of waiting 30 minutes to go to the bathroom and again to get food and didn't know how much more she could take.

'We would not have risked coming if we had known it was going to be this hard,' said Gonzales, who left Guatemala with her 15-year-old son and her neighbor.

She said she was considering accepting Mexico's offer to stay and work in Chiapas as a refugee.

A man walks along the Mexico-US border fence in Tijuana, Baja California State, Mexico

A Central American migrant carries a US flag on his cap as he remains at a shelter in Tijuana

A migrant boy plays inside a shelter with a balloon in Tijuana, Mexico earlier today

Some of the migrants staged a small demonstration at the city's Chaparral border crossing Thursday, and a few dozen spent the night there.

Police cordoned off the streets around the crossing tangling traffic, but pedestrian traffic across the border continued uninterrupted Friday.

Alicia Ramirez, 65, a Tijuana businesswoman, said she had been worried she wouldn't be able to make her annual Black Friday crossing to do her Christmas shopping, but had no trouble walking into California.

About a dozen Mexican police stood by the crossing carrying plastic shields.

Still the threat of a border closure kept her daughters in Los Angeles from coming to see her for the holidays.

'My daughters were worried, so they decided not to come,' she said.

Donald Trump said the US shut down its border with Mexico because it's 'out of control' but he didn't elaborate on the details in his comments on Thursday.

'Actually, two days ago, we closed the border. We actually just closed it.

'We say nobody is coming in because it was out of control,' he said to reporters after he called US troops to wish them a Happy Thanksgiving.

'It's not that big a deal,' he said.

Asked to clarify what he meant, Trump said if 'it gets to a level where we are going to lose control or where people are going to start getting hurt, we will close entry into the country for a period of time until we can get it under control.

'The whole border. I mean the whole border.'

====== 35 ========

GOOD ROUND, MR. PRESIDENT? TRUMP CAN BARELY CONTAIN HIS GLEE AFTER ANOTHER DAY OF GOLF IN FLORIDA

President Trump enjoyed his third round of golf in as many days on Friday and returned to Mar-a-Lago in remarkably high spirits afterwards.

Trump beamed as he was driven back into his 'winter White House', waving at people who had lined the entrance and mouthing what appeared to be the words 'thank you' as he whizzed past.

Among the 20-strong crowd was a woman in a wheelchair who was waiting for him to come back.

The president had been at his golf course, the Trump Golf Links, nearby.

Scroll down for video

The president was elated as he waved to crowds outside Mar-a-Lago while returning from another game of golf on Friday

Trump appeared to mouth the words 'thank you' to the crowd of 20 fans which had gathered

His tweeting on Friday was considerably refined in comparison with days gone by.

He had sent out only two tweets by 4pm. The first was in the morning and was about immigration and the ongoing chaos along the border.

'Republicans and Democrats MUST come together, finally, with a major Border Security package, which will include funding for the Wall.

'After 40 years of talk, it is finally time for action. Fix the Border, for once and for all, NOW!' he said.

Among the crowd was a woman in a wheelchair who had waited to see the president

Trump has been in Mar-a-Lago since Tuesday night. He has spent the last three days golfing, meeting with troops, speaking with them on the phone and having dinner with his family

Four hours later, he resumed his tweeting to write: 'Really good Criminal Justice Reform has a true shot at major bipartisan support.

'Mitch McConnell and Senator [Chuck Schumer] have a real chance to do something so badly needed in our country.

'Already passed, with big vote, in House. Would be a major victory for ALL!'

Trump traveled to Mar-a-Lago on Tuesday night to celebrate Thanksgiving. He spent his first morning there playing golf with Jack Nicklaus for six hours despite insisting that there was lots of work to be done.

Trump sent out two tweets on Friday. One was about immigration and the other was about criminal justice reform

Since then, he has spent time on the phone with Navy personnel who are serving overseas and has hosted a Thanksgiving dinner.

When asked on Thursday what he was thankful for, he answered brazenly: 'For having a great family and for having made a tremendous difference in this country.

'I made a tremendous difference in the country.

'This country so much stronger now than it was when I took office that you won't believe it.

'And I mean, you see it, but so much stronger that people can't even believe it.'

The president started his morning speaking to various troops for about 25 minutes, talking with an Air Force Unit in Afghanistan, Marines in Kuwait, Army soldiers in Afghanistan, Coast Guard officers in Bahrain, and a Navy Commander.

He later stopped by the golf course and hosted an evening dinner with his family.

====== 36 ========

SAUDI HIT SQUAD 'DRAINED JAMAL KHASHOGGI'S BLOOD INTO AN EMBASSY BATHROOM SINK BEFORE DISMEMBERING'

Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, who wrote critically of the kingdom's policies and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, was killed in the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul. Turkish officials say a 15-men team tortured, killed and dismembered the writer, while Saudi Arabia says he died in a 'fistfight.'

Here are some key moments in the slaying of the Washington Post columnist:

BEFORE HIS DISAPPEARANCE

September 2017: The Post publishes the first column by Khashoggi in its newspaper, in which the former royal court insider and longtime journalist writes about going into a self-imposed exile in the U.S. over the rise of Prince Mohammed. His following columns criticize the prince and the kingdom's direction.

September 28, 2018: Over a year after the Post published his first column, Khashoggi visits the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul, seeking documents in order to get married. He's later told to return October 2, his fiancee Hatice Cengiz says. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan says a plan or a 'road map' to kill Khashoggi was devised in Saudi Arabia during this time.

September 29: Khashoggi travels to London and speaks at a conference.

October 1: Khashoggi returns to Istanbul. At around 4.30pm, a three-person Saudi team arrives in Istanbul on a scheduled flight, checks in to their hotels then visits the consulate, according to Erdogan. The Turkish president says another group of officials from the consulate travel to a forest in Istanbul's outskirts and to the nearby city of Yalova on a 'reconnaissance' trip.

Jamal Khashoggi (right) arriving at the Saudi Arabian consulate in Istanbul on October 2

THE DAY OF HIS DISAPPEARANCE

3.28am, October 2: A private jet arrives at Istanbul's Ataturk Airport carrying some members of what Turkish media will refer to as a 15-member Saudi 'assassination squad.' Other members of the team arrive by two commercial flights in the afternoon. Erdogan says the team includes Saudi security and intelligence officials and a forensics expert. They meet at the Saudi Consulate. One of the first things they do is to dismantle a hard disk connected to the consulate's camera system, the president says.

11.50am: Khashoggi is called to confirm his appointment at the consulate later that day, Erdogan says.

1.14pm: Surveillance footage later leaked to Turkish media shows Khashoggi walking into the main entrance of the Saudi Consulate. No footage made public ever shows him leaving. His fiancee waits outside, pacing for hours.

3.07pm: Surveillance footage shows vehicles with diplomatic license plates leaving the Saudi Consulate for the consul general's home some 2 kilometers (1.2 miles) away.

5.50pm: Khashoggi's fiancee alerts authorities, saying he may have been forcibly detained inside the consulate or that something bad may have happened to him, according to Erdogan.

7pm: A private plane from Saudi Arabia carries six members of the alleged Saudi squad from Istanbul to Cairo, the next day returning to Riyadh.

11pm: Seven members of the alleged Saudi squad leave on another private jet to Dubai, United Arab Emirates, which the next day returns to Riyadh. Two others leave by commercial flights.

Erdogan confirms reports that a 'body double' - a man wearing Khashoggi's clothes, glasses and a beard - leaves the consulate building for Riyadh with another person on a scheduled flight later that day.

CCTV images showed a a private jet alleged to have been used by a group of Saudi men suspected of being involved in Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi's death

INITIAL REACTION

October 3: Khashoggi's fiancee and the Post go public with his disappearance. Saudi Arabia says Khashoggi visited the consulate and exited shortly thereafter. Turkish officials suggest Khashoggi might still be in the consulate. Prince Mohammed tells Bloomberg: 'We have nothing to hide.'

October 4: Saudi Arabia says on its state-run news agency that the consulate is carrying out 'follow-up procedures and coordination with the Turkish local authorities to uncover the circumstances of the disappearance of Jamal Khashoggi after he left the consulate building.'

October 5: The Post prints a blank column in its newspaper in solidarity with Khashoggi, headlined: 'A missing voice.'

October 6: The Post, citing anonymous Turkish officials, reports Khashoggi may have been killed in the consulate in a 'preplanned murder' by a Saudi team.

October 7: A friend of Khashoggi tells the AP that officials told him the writer was killed at the consulate. The consulate rejects what it calls 'baseless allegations.'

October 8: Saudi Arabia's ambassador to Turkey is summoned over Khashoggi's disappearance and alleged killing.

LEAKED FOOTAGE

October 9: Turkey says it will search the Saudi Consulate as a picture of Khashoggi walking into the diplomatic post surfaces.

October 10: Surveillance footage is leaked of Khashoggi and the alleged Saudi squad that killed him. Khashoggi's fiancee asks President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump for help.

October 11: Turkish media describes Saudi squad as including royal guards, intelligence officers, soldiers and an autopsy expert. Trump calls Khashoggi's disappearance a 'bad situation' and promises to get to the bottom of it.

October 12: Trump again pledges to find out what happened to Khashoggi.

October 13: A pro-government newspaper reports that Turkish officials have an audio recording of Khashoggi's alleged killing from his Apple Watch, but details in the report come into question.

INTERNATIONAL UPROAR

October 14: Trump says that 'we're going to get to the bottom of it, and there will be severe punishment' if Saudi Arabia is involved. The kingdom responds with a blistering attack against those who threaten it, as the manager of a Saudi-owned satellite news channel suggests the country could retaliate through its oil exports. The Saudi stock exchange plunges as much as 7 percent at one point.

Khashoggi (pictured), went missing after entering the Saudi consulate in Istanbul

October 15: A Turkish forensics team enters and searches the Saudi Consulate, an extraordinary development as such diplomatic posts are considered sovereign soil. Trump suggests after a call with Saudi King Salman that 'rogue killers' could be responsible for Khashoggi's alleged slaying. Trump says Secretary of State Mike Pompeo will travel to the Mideast over the case. Meanwhile, business leaders say they won't attend an economic summit in the kingdom that's the brainchild of Prince Mohammed.

October 16: A high-level Turkish official tells the AP that 'certain evidence' was found in the Saudi Consulate proving Khashoggi was killed there. Pompeo arrives for meetings in Saudi Arabia with King Salman and Prince Mohammed. Meanwhile, Trump compares the case to the appointment of now-Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh during his confirmation hearing, saying: 'Here we go again with you're guilty until proven innocent.'

October 17: Pompeo meets with Turkey's president and foreign minister in the Turkish capital, Ankara. Turkish police search the official residence of Saudi Arabia's consul general in Istanbul and conduct a second sweep of the consulate.

October 18: A leaked surveillance photograph shows a member of Prince Mohammed's entourage walked into the consulate just before Khashoggi vanished there.

October 20: Saudi Arabia for the first time acknowledges Khashoggi was killed in the consulate, claiming he was slain in a 'fistfight.' The claim draws immediate skepticism from the kingdom's Western allies, particularly in the U.S. Congress.

October 22: A report says a member of Prince Mohammed's entourage made four calls to the royal's office around the time Khashoggi was killed. Police search a vehicle belonging to the Saudi consulate parked at an underground garage in Istanbul.

CCTV emerges showing a Saudi intelligence officer dressed in a fake beard and Jamal Khashoggi's clothes and glasses on the day he went missing.

October 23: Erdogan says Saudi officials murdered Khashoggi after plotting his death for days, demanding that Saudi Arabia reveal the identities of all involved.

October 25: Changing their story again, Saudi prosecutors say Khashoggi's killing was a premeditated crime.

November 2: Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan claims the order to kill Khashoggi came from the highest levels of the Saudi government. Earlier the same day, Yasin Aktay, a ruling party adviser to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, said he believed the body had to have been dissolved in acid.

November 4: Khashoggi's sons Salah and Abdullah Khashoggi issue appeal for his remains to be returned so that he may be buried in Saudi Arabia.

November 10: President Erdogan says Turkey gave the audio recordings linked to the murder to 'Saudi Arabia, to Washington, to the Germans, to the French, to the British'.

November 13: Turkish media reports that the luggage carried by the Saudi 'hit squad' included scissors, defibrillators and syringes that may have been used against Khashoggi.

November 15: Saudi Arabia's public prosecutor announces that he is seeking the death penalty for five out of 11 suspects charged in the murder. Shalaan al-Shalaan said the person who had ordered the killing was the head of the negotiating team sent to repatriate him, and exonerated Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman. On the same day, the U.S. Treasury announces sanctions against 17 Saudi officials, including the Consul General in Turkey, Mohammed Alotaibi.

November 16: A CIA assessment reported in the Washington Post finds that Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman ordered the assassination.

November 18: Germany bans 18 Saudi nationals believed to be connected to the murder from entering Europe's border-free Schengen zone. Berlin also announces it has as halted previously approved arms exports to Saudi Arabia amid the fallout.

====== 37 ========

TRUMP DEMANDS DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS COME TOGETHER TO FUND WALL

President Donald Trump targeted Congress on Twitter Friday morning, demanding Democrats and Republicans come together on border security - including funding his wall - and working on criminal justice reform.

Trump on Thursday threatened to shutdown the government this fall if he doesn't getting the billions needed to build his wall on the U.S.-Mexico border.

'Republicans and Democrats MUST come together, finally, with a major Border Security package, which will include funding for the Wall. After 40 years of talk, it is finally time for action. Fix the Border, for once and for all, NOW!,' he tweeted Friday morning from Mar-a-Lago, where he is spending his Thanksgiving holiday.

President Trump targeted Congress on Twitter Friday morning

Trump said on Thursday he would shut down the government if his wall is not funded

Trump has been pushing GOP Senate Leader Mitch McConnell to bring up criminal justice reform

He also made a push for criminal justice reform, an issue his son-in-law Jared Kushner and daughter Ivanka Trump are backing.

The president took a zinger at Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer in his tweet, saying there is a 'true shot a major bipartisan support.'

'Really good Criminal Justice Reform has a true shot at major bipartisan support. @senatemajldr Mitch McConnell and @senchuckschumer have a real chance to do something so badly needed in our country. Already past, with big vote, in House. Would be a major victory for ALL!,' he wrote.

Trump reportedly talked to McConnell this week on the issue, but the Senate Majority Leader warned him that the clock is ticking on the lame duck session of Congress, which is scheduled to end Dec. 14, although that could be extended.

Lawmakers have to finish funding the government by Dec. 7, an issue that will likely dominate their time when they return to Washington D.C. next week. They are also trying to pass a farm bill, an issue of importance in red states that voted for Trump in 2016.

Trump on Thursday threatened to shutdown the government if there's not funding for his border wall.

Speaking to reporters at Mar-a-Lago, the president said there 'certainly could' be a government shut down this fall.

'Could there be a shut down? There certainly could and it will be about border security, of which the wall is a part,' he said.

Congress has until Dec. 7 to fund the rest of the government after lawmakers failed to approve seven of the 12 individual funding bills before the deadline and, instead, passed temporary funding to keep the government open while they work on the issue.

House and Senate versions of appropriations bills have funding for the president's wall at different levels.

The House bill funding the Department of Homeland Security has $5 billion in funding for the border wall while the Senate version has $1.6 billion.

They will spend December trying to resolve the issue. Democrats have felt Trump's wrath on border security. He repeatedly hammered them on the campaign trail for not being tough enough.

While Democrats say they want border security, they have bristled at the wall funding particularly without broader reform measures for immigrants, including protections for the so-called Dreamers, children who were brought to the U.S. illegally by their parents.

The criminal justice reform bill Trump is touting - the First Step Act - would lower mandatory minimum sentences for certain drug offenders and create new prison training programs aimed at reducing reoffenses.

However, there could be a civil war in his own Republican Party over the legislation.

Trump targeted Senate GOP Mitch McConnell (left) and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer (right) in his tweet

Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump have pushed for criminal justice reform

While Republicans Senators like Rand Paul and Lindsey Graham support the legislation, an influential bloc of conservatives, led by Arkansas Sen. Tom Cotton, oppose legislation that has early release provisions for jailed convicts.

That divisiveness in his own party could be why Trump included an appeal to Schumer as, thus far, Senate Democrats have been watching how the issue plays out from the sidelines.

The president may need votes from Democratic senators to get the issue passed.

The House did pass a version of the legislation in May but the Senate added the changes to sentencing laws in its version, meaning the lower chamber would need to approve the latest legislative package.

Senate Republicans who support criminal justice reform are eager to pass it before Congress adjourns for the year out of fears a Democratically-controlled House would add even more reform measures next year, making it harder for the GOP to pass on their side.

====== 38 ========

KELLYANNE CONWAY'S HUSBAND SLAMS TRUMP'S ATTACK ON NINTH CIRCUIT

Attorney George Conway, the husband of White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, has slammed President Donald Trump again, this time saying he's using a 'misleading' argument in his attack on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.

Conway dove into statistics of Supreme Court reversals to counter a claim by Trump that the Ninth Circuit 'is overturned more than any Circuit in the Country.'

'The number of Ninth Circuit cases reviewed and reversed was high, but the Ninth Circuit is by far largest federal circuit by number of judges and size of docket,' Conway wrote on Twitter on Thursday.

Attorney George Conway, the husband of White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, has slammed President Donald Trump again

Conway took to Twitter to slam Trump's argument about the Ninth Circuit court

He used statistics to cite the overturn rate that Trump claimed was highest for the ninth

Conway called that argument 'misleading'

'Anyway, to put the point more simply, the Supreme Court doesn't usually take cases to affirm them, which is why the statistic the President is citing is misleading,' he added.

He also pointed out that an average of 74 percent of all court rulings across the U.S. that were reviewed by the Supreme Court were overturned last year.

Trump has had the Ninth Circuit in his sights after it ruled against him in his attempt to stop illegal immigrants applying for asylum once they cross the border.

It also led to the president getting into an unprecedented battle with Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts.

The Ninth Court is the largest of the 13 circuit courts in the United States and its reversal rate in cases that go the Supreme Court is the third highest among all the appeals courts, coming in after the Sixth Circuit based in Ohio and the 11th Circuit in Atlanta.

Conway has become something of a social media star in his critical tweets on his wife's boss.

But he's caused a fury this month, when he co-wrote an op-ed in the New York Times that Trump's appointment of Matthew Whitaker as acting attorney general was unconstitutional.

He also gave an interview to the 'Skullduggery' podcast on Yahoo! News, where he said the Republican Party under Trump has become a 'personality cult' and that he would rather 'move to Australia' than vote for the president again.

But it was his comments on Whitaker that got the president's attention.

Trump said that 'Mr. Kellyanne Conway' was 'just trying to get publicity for himself.'

Kellyanne Conway, meanwhile, has brushed aside political differences with her husband.

'It doesn't affect me or my job at all,' she said on 'Fox News Sunday' recently.

'I've never been doing better personally or professionally,' she noted, adding: 'I'm sure the feminists are really cheering me on today, an independent, strong-willed, strong woman in a very powerful position that disagrees with her husband.'

Trump has been railing against the Ninth Circuit, which ruled against his asylum ban

Kellyanne Conway has brushed aside political differences with her husband

Trump has been on a tear about the Ninth Circuit all week, even slamming it on Thanksgiving Day in a talk with reporters.

'Essentially they're legislating,' he said of the court which put a hold on his asylum ban on illegal immigrants.

'We are doing really well considering the laws are a disaster. And if we had the right laws, it would be a lot less expensive and we would do it a lot easier, but we don't have the right laws and we have people interpreting the laws and they always give us a bad interpretation. So hopefully we have shown some light on the Ninth Circuit,' he said.

Trump also acknowledged his spat with Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts.

'I know that Chief Justice Roberts, John Roberts, has been speaking a little bit about it. And I think - I have a lot of respect for him. I like him and respect him, but I think we have to use some common sense. It's Ninth Circuit, everybody knows it, it's totally out of control. What they're doing, what they're saying, the opinions are very unfair to law enforcement. They're very unfair to our military. And they're very unfair, most importantly, to the people of our country,' he said.

Trump had complained that a judge appointed by former President Barack Obama has ruled against his asylum ban, calling him an 'Obama-judge.'

That earned a sharp rebuke from the chief justice.

Roberts, who is a Republican and was nominated to the Supreme Court by George W. Bush in 2005, said: 'We do not have Obama judges or Trump judges, Bush judges or Clinton judges.

'What we have is an extraordinary group of dedicated judges doing their level best to do equal right to those appearing before them.

'The independent judiciary is something we should all be thankful for.'

Trump hit back on Twitter afterwards, saying: 'Sorry Chief Justice John Roberts, but you do indeed have 'Obama judges', and they have a much different point of view than the people who are charged with the safety of our country.'

====== 39 ========

STEPH CURRY INVOLVED IN TWO CAR ACCIDENTS WITHIN TEN MINUTES OF EACH OTHER IN HIS $185,000 PORSCHE

Golden State Warriors star Stephen Curry walked away from back-to-back car accidents on Black Friday after having his Porsche hit by two separate drivers.

Curry was driving his black Panamera Turbo S Porsche, which is known to cost upwards of $185,000, when a silver Lexus lost control and veered into him on Highway 24 in Oakland, California.

It collided with Curry's vehicle, smashing its front right mirror, and caused him to pull over onto the central median to wait for help.

Ten minutes later, as he waited for that help to arrive, another car rear-ended him.

None of the three drivers were hurt and no arrests have been made.

Steph Curry talks to a California Highway Patrol officer after two cars crashed into him on Black Friday in Oakland, California

Curry was driving his Panamera Turbo S Porsche when a car veered into his lane and crashed into him, damaging the right side of the $185,000 vehicle

Curry had pulled over into the median to wait for help after having the front of his car damaged when the second vehicle hit him

A spokesman for California Highway Patrol told DailyMail.com they were not yet sure what caused the back-to-back accidents but that speed and weather may have played a part.

It was raining in the 65mph zone where the accidents occurred at the time.

Curry, 30, is recovering from a groin injury and was not scheduled to play in tonight's game.

It appears that he was alone in his vehicle at the time of the crashes.

The right side of the vehicle was destroyed by the Lexus which spun out of control on the wet road

The Warriors star looked unfazed by the accident and posed for a smiling picture with the cops next to his smashed car

Afterwards, he and the other two drivers stayed on scene to give statements to officers.

He was filmed by bystanders demonstrating with his hands how the first car veered left and crashed into him.

'Luckily everyone was wearing their seat belt and there were no injuries.

'We'd like to remind everyone to wear their seat belts and slow down,' the spokesman said.

Curry's representatives did not immediately respond to DailyMail.com's inquiries on Friday afternoon.

Curry and an unidentified man speak by the side of the road. No one was arrested and all three drivers cooperated with police

Curry was believed to have been driving alone at the time of the crash

====== 40 ========

WHY DO BOOBS SAG? WORLD-FIRST STUDY WILL TRY TO ANSWER THE AGE OLD QUESTION

The first ever scientific study to find out why women get saggy breasts will be carried out by researchers in the UK.

Experts at the University of Portsmouth will conduct a two-day study to scan women's breasts and analyse them while the women walk on a treadmill.

During the experiment next month they hope to find out why some breasts droop over time, and by how much they do so.

The findings could help clothing companies develop better bras, the researchers say, and they're calling for women to volunteer to be part of the study.

Scientists will carry out the research by measuring how much women's breasts move when they walk and considering how this might affect their shape over time

The University of Portsmouth is calling for volunteers to join the world-first study, and is offering £30 in return for women taking part in the breast scans and treadmill walks at St Mary's NHS Treatment Centre in Portsmouth, Hampshire

'This research will be the first time scientists will have evidence on whether the density of breasts affects their movement,' said senior researcher Dr Tim Blackmore.

'The results will allow us to better understand the demands different women's breasts put on bras and, for example, why one bra design won't work for every woman.'

Women will be offered £30 to take part in the study, in which they will have MRI and 3D scans taken of their breasts.

They will also walk on a treadmill so scientists can analyse how their breasts move when they walk, to work out how that affects their shape or position over time.

Scans will also be used to work out the proportions of fat and glandular tissue inside women's breasts.

The two-day study is being run by the Research Group in Breast Health, which is based at the Hampshire university.

Experts at the expert Research Group in Breast Health say developing a better understanding of why breasts sag and change shape as women get older will allow companies to develop better bras

The group has become a leader in breast studies over the last decade, with its scientists working with lingerie manufacturers, the military, the NHS and other organisations to test bras.

The tests will be carried out next month at St Mary's NHS Treatment Centre in Portsmouth.

Hospital director Penny Daniels added: 'This is a worthwhile project.

'Not only may it allow greater comfort for women everywhere at the end of a very long day at work, but it may also reveal valuable insights into women's health and wellbeing.

'I would encourage women to consider participating.'

====== 41 ========

SIX WOMEN WORKING AT THE BUSIEST BORDER PORT IN THE US DEVELOPED CANCER WITHIN 30 MONTHS

Researchers traced the genetic changes to constant exposure to traffic fumes

Her breast cancer genes had shut down but she hadn't inherited the mutation

One woman with cancer had worked in the heavy traffic for 20 years

Working near busy roads triggers breast cancer, scientists warn after they found at least six women at the same bridge got it within three years of one another.

The group of women all developed a cancer believed to have been caused by exhaust fumes in what researchers have branded a 'new occupational disease'.

There is a one in 10,000 chance the cases were a coincidence, the study said, because the cancers were all so similar and close together.

And another group of seven women developed the disease after working at a tunnel just four miles away at the border between the US and Canada.

Despite scientists going as far as to label a new disease after one woman's ordeal, she was denied any compensation by the Canadian government.

Women working at the Ambassador Bridge (pictured), which connects Detroit and Ontario in North America, were found to have a 16 times higher risk of getting breast cancer than the average population, because around 27,000 vehicles use the road every day

Research focused on the case of one unnamed woman who worked for 20 years at the Ambassador Bridge between Detroit, Michigan and Windsor, Ontario.

The bridge connects the US with Canada and is the busiest commercial border crossing in North America, seeing 12,000 trucks and 15,000 cars every day.

Assuming the volume of traffic was the same over the woman's 20-year employment and she worked 40 hour weeks, she could have been exposed to the fumes of up to 46.8million vehicles.

Doctors Michael Gilbertson and Jim Brophy, from the University of Stirling in Scotland, believe chemicals in the traffic fumes caused the cancer.

They say the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, which try to stop tumours growing, can be shut down by vehicle exhaust fumes.

'These outbreaks of breast cancer represent a new occupational disease,' said Dr Gilbertson.

These women's cases revealed working in the toll booths gave them a 16 times higher chance of breast cancer than the average woman.

The woman in the case study developed breast cancer when she was 44, and then again at the age of 51.

Her diagnosis came within 30 months of five other women working at the same border crossing.

And at the Detroit-Windsor tunnel, four miles away, another seven women were developing the same disease alongside them.

What is the BRCA gene and how does it affect people's risk of cancer? Having a mutated BRCA gene - as famously carried by Angelina Jolie - dramatically increases the chance a woman will develop breast cancer in her lifetime, from 12 per cent to 90 per cent. Between one in 800 and one in 1,000 women carry a BRCA gene mutation, which increases the chances of breast and ovarian cancer. Both BRCA1 and BRCA2 are genes that produce proteins to suppress tumours. When these are mutated, DNA damage can be caused and cells are more likely to become cancerous. The mutations are usually inherited and increase the risk of ovarian cancer and breast cancer significantly. When a child has a parent who carries a mutation in one of these genes they have a 50 percent chance of inheriting the mutations. About 1.3 percent of women in the general population will develop ovarian cancer, this increase to 44 percent of women who inherit a harmful BRCA1 mutation.

Dr Gilbertson added: 'This new research indicates the role of traffic-related air pollution in ... increasing [the] incidence of breast cancer in the general population.'

BRCA1 and BRCA2 are genes – the breast cancer genes – which play a big role in preventing breast cancer by repairing DNA to stop defects leading to uncontrolled tumours.

Around one in 400 women inherit a BRCA mutation which puts them at much higher risk of breast cancer – famously, Angelina Jolie did and had a double mastectomy.

But the Stirling researchers say chemicals in traffic pollution can shut down the genes in the same way.

Dioxins, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and aldehydes – all of which are found in exhaust fumes – are believed to stop the genes working.

Past research has confirmed this and the woman in the study did not have functioning BRCA genes but hadn't inherited the defect.

And all the women's cancers were early-onset (around half of cases are in women over 65), happened pre-menopause, and were recurring cancers.

Dr Gilbertson said: 'We now have plausible mechanisms for inferring how the BRCA1/2 tumour suppressors in this highly-exposed border guard became dysfunctional and likely contributed to the ongoing epidemic of sporadic, early onset, premenopausal breast cancer among her colleagues.'

And shift work could make the pollution-cancer link worse, as past research on rats has shown those constantly exposed to daylight developed 60 per cent more tumours and the tumours grew 36 per cent faster.

The woman, whose case was revealed in a compensation claim at the Workplace Safety and Insurance Appeals Tribunal, was denied any compensation.

The research was published in the journal New Solutions.

====== 42 ========

BLACK FRIDAY SHOPPERS ARE OUT IN FULL FORCE ON THE BUSIEST DAY OF THE YEAR

This year's Black Friday has proven to once again be the biggest shopping day of the year with masses of people fighting for the best deals.

Photos and videos from all over the country show that stores are packed with eager Black Friday shoppers lined up for this year's sales.

The huge crowds of customers haven't been deterred by stores opening hours early on Thursday to encourage shoppers with special Thanksgiving deals.

Americans also spent around $3.7billion online alone on Thanksgiving day, a whopping 27.5 per cent increase in online sales compared to last year's $2.9billion total, according to TechCrunch.

However, the early spending seems to have done little to slow down Black Friday sales appetites, with footage from one Walmart store showing a scene of carnage as customers fought for TV and electronics deals.

Elsewhere, a 21-year-old gunman was shot dead by Alabama police after an argument led to him shooting the 18-year-old man he was fighting with, and wounding a little girl, age 12, in the process.

Both the 18-year-old and the child have been hospitalized. It's unclear whether the men knew each other or the fight was related to shopping.

This year's Black Friday has proven to once again be the biggest shopping day of the year with masses of people fighting for the best deals. In one video of a fight that broke out at a Walmart, a man is shown pinned to the floor by another man, while a third can be seen swinging at him while being pulled away by others as a woman stands over him and shouts, 'Don't talk to me like that'

In one video of a fight that broke out at a Walmart, a man is shown pinned to the floor by another man, while a third can be seen swinging at him while being pulled away by others. A woman stands over him and shouts, 'Don't talk to me like that.'

'Get in my face again!' she says, with a raised voice, as the man on the ground gets up and another man's voice can be heard in the distance saying, 'Get in a girl's face?'

Another person tries to calm things down, telling the man who just got up from the ground, 'That's enough,' while yet another says, 'Ain't no point in going to jail,' with a woman stepping in and ushering the man who was pinned away.

One of the first, and comparatively mild, fights of Black Friday happened on Thursday afternoon at another Walmart, this time in Rockmart, Georgia. A woman can be seen on the ground with a box of pots of pans, as another woman tries to steal the package from her clutches, but the woman on the floor hangs on for dear life and keeps the goods to herself

One of the first, and comparatively mild, fights of Black Friday happened on Thursday afternoon at another Walmart, this time in Rockmart, Georgia.

A woman can be seen on the ground with a box of pots of pans, as another woman tries to steal the package from her clutches, but the woman on the floor hangs on for dear life and keeps the goods to herself.

'First fight of the night [woman shrugging emoji],' Facebook user Kaitlin Bires wrote with the video, adding, 'pioneer women pots and pans are no joke [laughing emoji].'

What's ironic about the tussle is that there are several boxes of the kitchenware behind the woman, which people are easily grabbing from as she tries to pry one away from the woman on the ground.

But the woman completely ignores those boxes while instead wrestling the woman to the ground over the one she has in her hands.

Footage of two women wresting on the floor of another warehouse-style store was shared on social media on Friday at around 12pm Eastern, with both women gripping onto each other's hair

Footage of two women wresting on the floor of another warehouse-style store was shared on social media on Friday at around 12pm Eastern, with both women gripping onto each other's hair.

A woman off-camera can be heard shouting, 'Get off of her,' at the dark-haired woman, who eventually gets up from the ground and shouts, 'She did that to me!'

Multiple on-lookers shout, 'Stop!' at the two adults, with the dark-haired woman continues to claim she was reacting in defense, to which another lady responds, 'I don't care!'

Macy's Herald Square in New York City was packed with a steady stream of shoppers since opening early on Thursday

The aisles inside Macy's in Manhattan's Herald Square are stuffed, with people shoulder to shoulder, covering the walkways

Well before things were starting to get ugly out there, Macy's flagship store in Manhattan was already a huge hit with Black Friday shoppers with 70 per cent discounts on cookware and 40 percent off of boots.

Macy's Herald Square, which has been open all night, is packed with a steady stream of shoppers, though they are late to the party because others were there on Thursday.

'We got here at 4.30am. We couldn't go to sleep so we went shopping,' says Shane Wilson, who arrived in Manhattan from London on Wednesday.

Nicole Battini, from Bologna, Italy showed up with a friend at Macy's at 5am after a night of clubbing. Battini, who arrived in New York earlier this week, is looking for shoes, a handbag and a coat. Then she says she's going to sleep.

'Tomorrow, we go back to clubbing,' she says.

In Tyler, Texas, long lines were also seen at a local gun shop, with firearms out on display for prospective bargain buyers

In Tyler, Texas, long lines were also seen at a local gun shop, with firearms out on display for prospective bargain buyers.

Patrons in camouflage jackets perused the Superior Firearms store, while works in blue polo shorts waited behind the counter to assist with purchases.

Although the shop was busy, the patrons kept their wits about them, maintaining their composure while browsing.

In Plainville, Massachusetts, however, it was another story at the local Target.

Just grabbing a cart at the store was a task in itself, with people pulling them from every which way while making their way in the doors and to the sales.

In Plainville, Massachusetts, customers were seen grabbing a cart at the local Target, which was a task in itself in the crowd

Another clip of Black Friday chaos shows people doing whatever they can to snag a television at a department store, with a woman pulling a TV out of the middle of the pack, and then naturally, those on top then topple to the ground with nothing left below them to provide support

Another clip of Black Friday chaos shows people doing whatever they can to snag a television at a department store.

One woman reaches over the crowd to yank a set out of the display, getting her grasp on one in the middle before all of the TVs were taken from the top of the stack.

She succeeds in pulling a TV out of the pack, and then naturally, those on top then topple to the ground with nothing left below them to provide support.

The rest of the crowd doesn't seem too bothered though, and appears happy to grab a discounted television that may or may not have been damaged in the fall.

In Omaha, Nebraska, Black Friday shoppers are seen carrying purchases, including a 43-inch Ultra HD television set, at the Nebraska Furniture Mart store.

In Omaha, Nebraska, Black Friday shoppers are seen carrying purchases, including a 43-inch Ultra HD television set, at the Nebraska Furniture Mart store

In Garden City, New York, one sleepy shopper settled down for a long, late fall nap in the midst of bargain hunting

In Garden City, New York, one sleepy shopper settled down for a long, late fall nap in the midst of bargain hunting.

With an H&M bag in the person's clutches, the thrifty spender was leaned over on a couch and using a puffy, camouflage jacket as a pillow for the snooze fest.

Women shopping at a Century 21 department store in Manhattan on Friday had so many bags of new buys that they had to take a break to gather their wares on the ground.

Customers in Bentonville, Arkansas were seen leaving Walmart with a pretty hefty haul.

Two shoppers, alone, had a television set, a giant box of toy trucks, what looked like it might be a full, child-sized electric car, and at least one other massive package.

Other shoppers with bags and bags of things had to sit for a rest in Miami, pulling up a seat wherever they could squeeze in at Dolphin Mall on Friday.

Other shoppers with bags and bags of things had to sit for a rest in Miami, pulling up a seat wherever they could squeeze in at Dolphin Mall on Friday

Women shopping at a Century 21 department store in Manhattan on Friday had so many bags of new buys that they had to take a break to gather their wares on the ground

Customers in Bentonville, Arkansas are seen leaving Walmart with a pretty hefty haul, including a television set

Eager shoppers wait in line outside for Black Friday sales at a Target store in Newport, Kentucky in the earlier hours of this morning

Well before things were starting to get ugly out there, Macy's flagship store in Manhattan was already a huge hit with Black Friday shoppers with 70 per cent discounts on cookware and 40 percent off of boots, with bargain shoppers rushing in through the doors at Herald Square

Video games, TVs and stuffed toys are popular choices on Black Friday. Here some teddies sit in a shopping cart at a Target store in Westbury, New York

Target was also a popular destination for shoppers in the early hours of Black Friday, with the most popular items there being TVs, iPads, and Apple Watches

Target is also a popular destination for shoppers. The store says that it's had more than double the customers on its app, compared to last year.

The most popular items are TVs, iPads, and Apple Watches. Among the most popular toy deals are Lego, L.O.L. Surprise from MGA Entertainment and Mattel's Barbie.

Target says that gamers are also picking up video game consoles like Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and the Xbox One.

Retailers are offering new ways for shoppers to get deals online and in-store easier and faster.

Walmart is introducing a digital map on its mobile app to make it easier for shoppers to find an item's exact location in the store.

Black Friday has started early for some shoppers in the US who could be seen rushing to popular stores to pick up bargains before the traditional 12am start

This Best Buy store in Chicago saw shoppers pile inside late at night and determinedly pushing their trolleys around the store

Customers flocked to stores like Best Buy to pick up TVs and other electronic goods at discounted rates before Black Friday morning

Eager people rushing through the doors of the Macy's store in New York City during the early hours of Black Friday shopping

Kohl's has a new feature on its mobile app that lets customers take photos of products anywhere and find similar items at the department store.

And customers, frustrated with long checkout lines, can check out at Walmart and other stores with a salesperson right on the spot.

Shoppers are also enjoyng new free shipping options. Target leapt in front of Walmart and Amazon to offer two-day free shipping for the holidays without any minimum purchases. Online leader Amazon followed, dropping its $25 minimum. Walmart is still sticking with its $35 threshold.

There were fears that the spread out nature of Thanksgiving shopping would slow down Black Friday sales - but customers are clearly still ready to splash the cash.

This person seems to be well into the Black Friday spirit and can be seen carrying a pile of discounted Playstation and Xbox video games

Black Friday, which is the day after Thanksgiving in the US, has been beset by violence and angry scenes in recent years but these shoppers looked more than happy to queue up

A huge team of staff at Target gear up in the final moments before the doors open on Black Friday in Maple Grove, Minnesota

'Retailers are pulling out all the stops to get shoppers earlier with online deals and using online to push shoppers in the store,' said Marshal Cohen, chief industry adviser at the NPD Group, a market research group. 'I think overall spending will be decent.'

The National Retail Federation, the nation's largest retail trade group, is expecting holiday retail sales in November and December - excluding automobiles, gasoline and restaurants - to increase as much as 4.8 percent over 2017 for a total of $720.89 billion. The sales growth marks a slowdown from last year's 5.3 percent, which was the largest gain since 2010. But the figure is still healthy.

Bargain hunters were seen flocking to stores like Best Buy late at night to pick up some bargains and beat the mad Black Friday morning rush.

They were seen joining long queues all over the country as they fought to make sure they picked up the best offers before anyone else.

Bargain hunters were seen flocking to stores like this Best Buy in Overland Park, Kansas on Thursday night to pick up some bargains and beat the mad Black Friday morning rush

Shoppers were ready and waiting for the 2pm opening of the JC Penney store in the Kirkwood Mall in Bismarck, North Dakota

Grinning shoppers have been spotted carrying huge TVs between them while others pushed trolleys laden with discounted goodies.

Photos show customers flocking to a Best Buy store in Chicago, Illinois and carrying piles of reduced electronics and video games joyfully in their arms.

Before it even hit 8pm, people could be seen carrying out large television screens from Best Buy in New York.

Most Macy's and Best Buy stores got a very early start on Black Friday, bypassing the once popular midnight openings to unlock their doors at 5pm on Thursday instead.

Shoppers could be seen entertaining themselves on their phones or guzzling down coffee as they waited in line together

People carry a television out of a Best Buy during a sales event on Thanksgiving day in Westbury, New York on Thursday

Hundreds of shoppers filed into Macy's flagship store in New York on Thanksgiving afternoon (pictured) on Thursday

Americans spent $4.15billion total just online between Wednesday and 5pm Eastern on Thursday. Sales increased by 32 percent on Wednesday alone to $2.4billion, over figures from last year.

Wednesday was also the first time in online shopping history that 50 percent of online shopping was done through cell phones.

It is predicted that appliances, clothing, and jewelry will be the most popular items this holiday season.

And when it comes to electronics, Amazon Echo speakers, Amazon Fire TVs, and Nintendo consoles have been the biggest sellers in November.

People wait in line to shop at Best Buy during a sales event on Thanksgiving day in Westbury, New York before the official start of Black Friday

A spectacle for all ages: Teenagers are known to be especially big fans of Black Friday sales and some could already be seen adding games and other electronic devices to their collection

People can hire professionals to wait in line for them for Broadway tickets, iPhone drops, restaurant reservations and then switch spots once the sitter reaches the front

Early shoppers at a Best Buy store in Washington carrying a brand new Samsung TV between them as they dodge the lines

Shoppers are waiting for doors to open during Black Friday at Macy's store on 34th St in New York

How bargain hunters are paying line sitters up to $35 an hour to queue outside stores ahead of Black Friday In other news, busy bargain hunters can now pay people up to $35 an hour to wait in line for them on Black Friday. Time poor, money rich millennials don't have to waste their precious hours idling in line for Broadway tickets, iPhone drops, restaurant reservations or big sales, when they can pay someone to do it for them - then switch spots once the sitter reaches the front. Some entrepreneurs who have set up the so-called line sitting companies said that they are doing a brisk trade. 'People don't have a lot of time,' Jennifer Goff, the founder and CEO of Skip the Line told MONEY. Jennifer Goff (left) is the founder of Skip the line and Darren Hromadka (right) founded the InLine4You app which are busier than ever, according to the entrepreneurs 'This is a service that really helps them to be able to do what they want to do'. Goff's venture started in June 2017 when a Game of Thrones pop-up bar debuted in Washington, DC. Fans turned out in force for a chance to drink The North Remembers cocktails and sit on the Iron Throne, and Goff took notice of the huge volume of people waiting hours to get in. 'Before I had a business plan, it was a way to make extra money. 'I [would approach] people in line and [say] I'm here if they want me to wait [for them]. 'They can go get a drink somewhere, go get food. I'll keep them updated with text messages and photos'. The most well-known business is Same Ole Line Dudes in New York City, which dispatches people to wait in lines for sample sales, Saturday Night. Darren Hromadka got into the line-sitting game when he learned his colleagues in Omaha, Nebraska, were paying college students to hold seats for them at Warren Buffett's annual Berkshire Hathaway shareholder meeting. Some 40,000 attendees turn out for a three-day event nicknamed the Woodstock of Capitalism. The inlineforyou app allows people to Hire a 'tasker' to stand in line for restaurants, special events, concerts and more Hoppers can post requests on the inlineforyou app and say how much they're willing to pay and spotters claim the gigs. Hoppers take a cut of the money Some people even wake up before dawn in order to get good seats to see Warren Buffett speak. Buffett himself told the Wall Street Journal in 2017 that hiring a person to stand in line for seats to the meeting is 'probably what I would do'. Hromadka thought there had to be a better way to bring together people who want a spot in line and people who are willing to do the work. He classified each group, calling them hoppers' and spotters respectively and founded the InLine4You app. Hoppers can post requests on the app and say how much they're willing to pay, and spotters claim the gigs. The average price is about $25 an hour. When the hopper shows up to take the spotter's place in line, InLine4You processes the payment. 'It is giving the gift of time,' explained Hromadka, whose app is available nationwide and has about 22,000 downloads. Another entrepreneur who set up an app called Same Ole Line Dudes is busy at particular times of the year. He said tourists flood New York City looking for Hamilton tickets and more holiday-specific events. He is currently recruiting line-sitters to reserve spots at the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, for which they'll get time and a half, but have to deal with crazy crowds and frigid temperatures. Skip the Line and Same Ole Line Dudes operate similarly, though they have set rates. Skip the Line charges about $30 an hour for most events; Same Ole Line Dudes costs $45 minimum for two hours. Both have variables that can drive up prices, like bad weather, event popularity or delivery options. Becoming a line sitter involves a lot of free time and patience so the job is perfect for students and retirees. Another crucial quality is a willingness to take on jobs, as Samuel said: 'It's an easy gig to get, but it's also easy to get let go from if an employee doesn't regularly fill requests'.

Black Friday fever spreads across the world: Carnage breaks out in stores as shoppers clamber over each other to get a bargain

Black Friday fever has spread across the world with carnage breaking out in stores and shoppers clambering over each other to snap up deals.

Scuffles broke out amid chaotic scenes at one store in Sao Paulo, Brazil, where crowds of bargain hunters scrambled to get their hands on cheap televisions.

Footage purportedly taken this morning also shows frantic shoppers storming into shops in South Africa.

The clip was reportedly captured at 'game' in Baywest Mall, Port Elizabeth, as its metal shutters were opened for the day.

Bargain hunters: There were chaotic scenes as shoppers made a frantic dash for discounted televisions at a department store in Sao Paulo, Brazil

A separate video shot at an unknown location in South Africa shows an armed guard patrolling a mall as crowds descend on a shop. A man can be seen desperately trying to beat queues by scrambling over a metal barrier.

In Barakaldo, near Bilbao, Spain, long queues were pictured outside a department store advertising Black Friday deals.

In the US, a teenager was killed and two others injured following a shooting at an Alabama shopping centre prior to Black Friday shopping.

Authorities say the shooting happened about 9.30pm local time on Thursday at the Riverchase Galleria in Hoover, a nearby suburb of Birmingham.

Police say a fight between two teenagers, including an 18-year-old, resulted in an exchange of gunfire. One teenager fled but was confronted by two Hoover police officers.

Captain Gregg Rector said at a news conference that a Hoover officer 'did engage that individual, shot him and he is dead on the scene'.

The second teenager was taken to hospital and is in a serious condition. Police said a 12-year-old girl also struck by gunfire was in hospital.

Black Friday, the day after the Thanksgiving holiday, was so named because spending in the United States would surge and retailers would traditionally begin to turn a profit for the year - moving from the red into the black. It falls on November 23 this year.

The Black Friday concept still divides opinion.

Keep cool and carry on: A member of staff was pictured trying to calm crowds as he stood on a display in a shop in Sao Paulo on Black Friday

Supporters say carefully planned, targeted promotions in close co-operation with global suppliers allow retailers to achieve a sales boost while still maintaining profit margins.

Naysayers argue the discounts suck forward Christmas sales that could otherwise be made at full price and can dampen business in subsequent weeks.

Meanwhile, Britain's retailers are hoping Black Friday discounts will get shoppers spending again after a torrid year for much of the sector.

A string of store groups have gone out of business or announced shop closures this year as they battle subdued consumer spending, rising labour costs, higher business property taxes, growing online competition and uncertainty over Brexit.

Toys R Us UK, Maplin and Poundworld have all gone bust, while Marks & Spencer, Debenhams, Mothercare and House of Fraser are between them shutting hundreds of stores.

====== 43 ========

AT LEAST ONE WOMAN SHOT AT NEW JERSEY MALL AS POLICE WARN GUNMAN IS STILL AT LARGE

A New Jersey mall full of Black Friday shoppers was evacuated on Friday night after a gunman opened fire, injuring a man, and sparking mass panic.

Cops surrounded Jersey Gardens Mall in Elizabet after police received calls about a shooting outside the Tommy Hilfiger store at just after 8pm.

At least one man was hit in the wrist and was taken to hospital where his injuries were described as non-life threatening. The victim is reportedly not cooperating with police and will not confirm who shot him.

A pregnant woman was also taken out of the mall by an EMT.

Police say the gunman has not been arrested but they are in the process of reviewing surveillance footage.

Police responded to reports of a shooting at the The Mills at Jersey Gardens mall on Friday evening (pictured are cops at the entrance to the mall)

Police surrounded the New Jersey mall after a gunman opened fire, injuring at least one shopper

One man was hit in the arm when the shooter opened fire but is not cooperating with the authorities

Shoppers described terrifying scenes as they say at least two gunshots rang out, sparking a stampede for the exits.

Those who couldn't make for the doors before the shutdown cowered inside stores or the backrooms.

Mark Alban wrote: 'Crazy close call. We were at Jersey Gardens Mall, and suddenly everyone started running & screaming. We didn't wait to find out why. I'm curious what the reports are. We made it safely to the car, but now stuck in the gridlock.'

Another witnesses described being 'locked in the back storage room with like a 100 people' before they were evacuated by a state trooper who guided them through the emergency exit.

'Just left Jersey Garden Mall at Elizabeth, NJ. Possible Active shooter inside! Complete lock down,' added Zeeshan Asim.

Elizabeth Police Department said in a statement: 'Police and emergency medical personnel have responded to 2 medical calls at the Jersey Gardens Mall. Police are continuing to investigate the nature of these incidents.'

The shooter is described as a white male wearing a black beanie and dressed in black. Anyone with information is urged to call the police.

Police surrounded the mall and are performed a sweep of the building

====== 44 ========

MOTHER LEAVES HER THREE SMALL DAUGHTERS IN A CAR IN FREEZING TEMPERATURES

A woman in Wisconsin was arrested for leaving her three small children alone in a car in freezing temperatures while she went shopping in Kmart.

Ashley Pirlot, 26, decided to leave her kids alone as she went into a Kmart near Milwaukee on November 16 because she didn’t want to deal with putting her children in a shopping cart.

Police found the kids inside her car in the parking lot with the outside temperature being 35 degrees , USA Today reported.

A 6-year-old, 17-month-old and 6-month-old - all girls - were found in the car.

A woman in Wisconsin was arrested for leaving her three small children alone in a car in freezing temperatures while she went shopping in Kmart

Once the mother was confronted by police, she told them that her own mother had been arrested once for leaving her in a car while she watched a football game.

Surveillance video confirmed Pirlot was in the store for about 17 minutes before police showed up.

The two youngest children were wearing dirty diapers and they weren’t properly covered for the cold weather, police said.

Officers bought the younger children diapers. They also gave them food and water — especially after the oldest girl said they hadn’t eaten in a while.

She was charged with three counts of neglect of a child. Two counts are felonies and the third is a misdemeanor.

Cudahy, with an estimated 2017 population of 18,282, is about six miles south of Milwaukee.

According to the criminal complaint, the 17-month-old girl was found in a booster seat wearing a pajama onesie partially unzipped in outside temperatures of 35 degrees.

The woman told police she was inside this Kmart store for 17 minutes before returning

Temperatures hit records lows in Wisconsin on the day the woman left her children in the car

The 6-month-old girl was in an infant carrier with a blanket though her bare feet were sticking out from the blanket and a plastic bag that was within reach posed a choking hazard.

A girl who turned 6 the day before her mother's arrest told police she was hungry and had not eaten in a while.

Cudahy officers noticed the younger children's diapers were dirty.

Police paged Pirlot, of South Milwaukee, inside Kmart and she told them she asked the 6-year-old girl to watch her sisters because she couldn't fit all three in a shopping cart and didn't want to deal with seat belting the kids in a cart.

Pirlot told officers that her mother had been arrested for leaving her in a vehicle when she was a baby while her mother watched a Packers game

====== 45 ========

MAN SAYS HE 'KILLED BEST FRIEND ON THANKSGIVING TO PUT HIM OUT OF HIS MISERY'

A Florida man who has been accused of killing his best friend on Thanksgiving claims the victim asked him to 'put him out of his misery'.

Steven Hunt, 38, allegedly shot Stephen Roberts, 45, in the head at his home on Lake Buffum Road in Lake Wales around 2.30pm.

According to the Orlando Sentinel, Roberts and a woman went to Hunt's house to take him to Walmart.

Steven Hunt (left and right), 38, allegedly shot Stephen Roberts, 45, in the head inside his Florida home

After they left Walmart, they went to Roberts' home.

The woman told Polk County deputies that she went to shower while the two men talked in another room.

After she got out of the shower, she heard a gunshot, according to the newspaper.

That's when she found Roberts suffering from a gunshot wound to his head. The woman told deputies that Hunt admitted to shooting Roberts.

'He [Roberts] was tired of hurting all day long and he didn't want to hurt like that,' Hunt reportedly said.

Hunt and the woman then left the scene after he told her to get the car.

Authorities said Hunt threw the gun out as he made his way to this Circle K gas station where he was later arrested. He faces a first-degree murder charge in Roberts' death

He grabbed the gun and allegedly instructed the woman to drive him to a Circle K on Highway 60 East in Bartow, where he threw the weapon out.

According to the Sentinel, the woman dropped him off and immediately called 911.

A short time late, Hunt was arrested across the street from the gas station.

Hunt initially claimed that Roberts shot himself before telling authorities that Roberts had asked Hunt to shoot him.

He faces a first-degree murder charge in Roberts' death. Hunt is being held in the Polk County Jail.

====== 46 ========

ELIZABETH SMART TALKS THANKSGIVING GRATITUDE AND SHARES FAMILY PHOTO WITH NEW BABY OLIVIA

A beacon of gratitude and positivity, Elizabeth Smart gushed about how thankful she is this Thanksgiving.

The 30-year-old, who was famously kidnapped from a bedroom she shared with her younger sister in 2002, shared a picture on Instagram on Thursday in which she smiles proudly with her husband and three kids — including her newborn baby Olibia.

'So much to be thankful for!!!! #happythanksgivng' she captioned the family snap.

Happy day! Elizabeth Smart shared this family photo on Instagram on Thanksgiving

Gratitude: She said she had 'so much to be thankful for' as she celebrated with her husband Matthew Gilmour and three children

In the photo, Smart sits on a sofa in jeans and a red sweater, cradling her newborn baby Olivia, who was born earlier this week.

Next to her is her husband Matthew Gilmour, who is holding on to their other two children: two-year-old Chloe and ten-month-old James.

Social media followers wished the mother-of-three a happy holiday, and also marveled at her resilience.

'I greatly admire you for your positive and inspirational outlook on life and on how you didn't let your horrible ordeal as a teenager ruin your life,' wrote one.

'I have tried to adopt your hopeful outlook on life ... I learned through hearing your story and reading your books how to move on with my life.'

'Thank you, so much, for being a source of hope for me,' wrote another.

And a third: 'Your family is so beautiful! Thankful for you, such an inspiration to the world.'

The smiley group is especially thankful this Thanksgiving due to the newest addition to their family. On November 19, Smart uploaded a photo of her and Matthew in the hospital with little Olivia.

'So happy to welcome Olivia to our family!' she captioned the image, in which she is seen beaming as her newest little one slept on her chest.

She and Matthew live in Park City, Utah with their three kids.

Growing family! She and Matthew welcomed a new baby girl earlier this week

Happy moment: The 30-year-old shared a post on Instagram announcing that she had given birth to a girl named Olivia

'My children have brought so much happiness and joy,' she told People in September. 'To me, they’re the very definition of love.'

Still, given her own traumatic history, the mother-of-three admitted she may be a bit more worrisome than other mothers.

'There’s a part of me that’s always thinking, "Are the windows shut? Where is she at? Who is by her? Can I see her?" I don’t want to let Chloe out of my sight,' she said.

'I will never regret being there for my children, watching them, making sure they’ll be okay. But I might regret not being there for them.'

Smart first announced on Instagram that she was expecting baby number three back in June, posting a picture of her sonogram.

While she hadn't spoken much more about her pregnancy since, she has been quite busy advocating for other victims of kidnapping and sexual abuse.

The birth announcement comes just two months after one of her kidnappers, Wanda Barzee, was released from Draper Prison in Utah on September 19. T

he 72-year-old and her husband Brian Mitchell kidnapped Smart from her bedroom in 2002, holding her captive for nine months in the woods where Mitchell raped her daily.

Big siblings! She and her husband live in Park City, Utah and have two other children, two-year-old Chloe and ten-month-old James

Traumatic past: Smart was famously kidnapped from her bedroom in 2002 and held for nine months in captivity

Smart was saved when a stranger saw the trio walking on a public street and called police. But while Mitchell will spend the rest of his life behind bars, Barzee was released two months ago after being in jail since 2003.

She was previously scheduled to be released in 2024.

In June, Smart begged for Barzee not to be granted parole and said she was still a danger to society. Speaking on CBS This Morning, she said her kidnapper fell short on her court-ordered apology, which was part of her plea deal.

'But it was just a very brief, "I'm sorry for what I've done, the end," kind of thing,' Smart said. 'I don't think you can just kidnap a 14-year-old girl and, you know, not only sit by her while she's being raped but encourage the rapist to continue... Then just at the end of it say, "I'm sorry," and really mean it.'

While Smart said she did not get a sense from Barzee that her captor was remorseful, she herself has forgiven her.

'I don't feel that I could have moved forward in my life had I still been holding on to hate and anger inside me, because that would still be taking up a percentage of my soul,' she explained.

'And that means that, you know, I wouldn't be able to love my own children 100 per cent, love my husband 100 per cent, because a part of me would still be taken up with anger.'

When the decision was made for Barzee's release, Smart said it was 'incomprehensible'.

Free: One of her kidnappers, Wanda Barzee, 72, walked free from prison in September (pictured on April 8, 2016, in Utah State Prison)

Awful: Smart appeared on CBS This Morning to talk about her reaction to Barzee's release

In a statement, she said she was 'surprised and disappointed' to learn that her captor will be freed after failing to undergo mental health evaluations and failing to attend her own parole hearing in June.

Barzee will most likely live alone in a private residence. The conditions of her probation require her to enter a mental health treatment program, check in with her probation officer every month, register as a sex offender, and submit to DNA collection, but she does not have to wear a GPS monitor.

Monster: Brian David Mitchell, Barzee's husband who raped Smart daily while holding her in captivity, is pictured in his 2004 mugshot

Just before Barzee's release, Smart shared a picture of herself as a child just before her kidnapping, and in the caption reacted to the news that Barzee was getting out.

'The past few days could certainly be described as shocking,' she wrote.

'I find this news greatly disturbing and incomprehensible. In my efforts to learn more it seems there are no viable legal options open to me at this time. So it is now that I ask those that have the power, and her family to start proceedings to have her be civilly committed.

'To my knowledge she has neither complied with medication or treatment and as some one who has experienced first hand just how depraved she truly is,

'I believe her to be a threat and a danger not just to myself but to the community, any vulnerable person.

'I am very concerned and precautions have been taken however I refuse to live in fear. I have spent the last 15 years rebuilding and moving forward with my life, having a family, and pursuing my goals. I lived in absolute fear and terror for nine months, no matter the outcome I will not do so again.

In June, she'd reflected more on the feelings she had after getting rescued.

Just a little girl: Smart said she is 'very concerned' about Barzee's release after the woman helped her husband kidnap her and rape her daily

'It is so easy to focus on all the negative things that happen and to feel that everything is unfair and should not have happened to you.

'Well I think you’re right. Too many things happen that you don’t deserve, and are unfair. But even though bad things happen they often lead to knowledge, compassion, understanding, empathy, love, healing, and change.

'In my book all those things are good. Out of great darkness light often shines through. I see that in my own life. Perhaps the only way for me to be where I am today was by going through everything that I did.

'I never asked to be kidnapped, and nor would I ever want it to happen again to me or anyone else,' she wrote.

'But had I not been kidnapped and raped, I wouldn’t understand what it is to be a victim/survivor, I would naively think that the victims would have some responsibility over what happened to them, I would have built barriers between what happened to them and what could never happen to me.

'There would be so much I wouldn’t know or understand.

'Looking back I can honestly say it was the worst experience I have ever dealt with and I hope no one ever goes through it again but I am also grateful it happened to me for what it has taught me and allowed me to be a part of, and for making me into the person I am today.'

====== 47 ========

PHIL MICKELSON CLAIMS PLAY-OFF VICTORY IN WINNER-TAKES-ALL $9M SHOWDOWN AGAINST TIGER WOODS

Phil Mickelson claimed a thrilling play-off win over Tiger Woods in their controversial winner-takes-all $9million match at Shadow Creek in Las Vegas on Friday night.

The victory came after 22 holes of finely balanced play between two of golf's greatest players and organisers even had to call on artificial lighting to ensure the game reached a conclusion in bitter cold conditions.

Both players were miked up for the entire round, giving fans a rare insight into discussions between themselves and their caddies, but it was the unmistakable tones of Samuel L. Jackson introducing them that was the first sign of what was to come.

Phil Mickelson claimed a thrilling play-off win over Tiger Woods in their controversial winner-takes-all $9million match

After plenty of missed opportunities from both men, Mickelson finally converted from close range for a birdie

Mickelson celebrates with caddie and brother Tim after defeating Woods on the 22nd hole of the contest

Organisers had to call on artificial lighting to ensure the game reached a conclusion in bitter cold conditions in Las Vegas

The pair made a number of astonishing side bets throughout the round with Mickelson costing himself $200,000 on the first hole alone as he failed to make birdie while $1,000,000 was then staked on the ninth.

At Tuesday's pre-event press conference, Mickelson had bet $100,000 he would birdie the par-four first hole, Woods said double it and the wager was accepted.

However following an ideal tee shot on the 379-yard par four and an approach to eight feet, Mickelson missed his birdie attempt after Woods had also failed to convert from slightly further.

Conversation from tee to green ventured between their shots, the weather forecast and even the emotional strain of their children leaving for university.

Both players missed the green on the second but, after Mickelson got up and down for par, Woods missed from three feet to lose the hole.

Woods also had to scramble for par after a wayward drive on the next before producing the first moment of quality of the day, a superb wedge from 107 yards setting up a conceded birdie which was matched by Mickelson.

The unmistakable tones of actor Samuel L. Jackson introducing the players was the first sign of what was to come

Woods plays his shot from the first tee as hundreds of spectators take in the action on Friday afternoon in Las Vegas

Mickelson squats down on the side of the first green as he tries to read the surface before making his putt for $200,000

A view of the charity donation walking board keeping track of the astronomical side bets being placed during the competition

Both players were miked up for the entire round, giving fans a rare insight into the debate and discussions had between stars

The 42-year-old cuts a frustrated figure in the Nevada sunshine after watching a putt narrowly miss the hole

The players then agreed a bet of $100,000 on whose tee shot would finish nearer the pin on the par-three fifth hole and Mickelson won it comfortably after an approach to 10 feet was followed by a mediocre effort from Woods.

Woods got back on level terms with a two-putt birdie on the par-five seventh, but promptly three-putted the next to fall one down again.

Mickelson also won the nearest-the-pin side bet on that hole for $200,000 and the stakes were raised even higher on the ninth, with $1,000,000 up for grabs for making an eagle on the par four.

However, the mediocre golf continued as Woods hit his approach to 80 feet and Mickelson came up short in a green-side bunker.

Woods drew level for the second time with a birdie on the short par-four 11th and edged in front with another birdie on the next after a superb approach to two feet.

Mickelson won his third nearest-the-pin contest on the 13th, a victory worth $300,000, and also converted the birdie attempt from nine feet to get the match back to all square with five holes to play.

He edged in front again when Woods bogeyed the 15th and the left-hander looked set to have a putt to win the match on the 17th when Woods missed the green with his tee shot.

Spectators around the green watch on as Mickelson reacts to a missed putt on the fifth at Shadow Creek

Mickelson plays a shot from a bunker on the picturesque ninth hole of the course that was only established in 1990

Woods reacts to chipping in for birdie on the 17th hole that saw him level the contest and set up a thrilling end

Woods reacts to missing his putt on the first play off hole as organisers had to use artificial lighting around a makeshift hole

Mickelson celebrates his victory with his family on the side of the green in the early hours of Friday evening

However, Woods chipped in for an unlikely birdie and Mickelson could not match it from 12 feet, meaning the match was all square heading to the 18th.

Woods two-putted the par-five 18th for birdie and then generously conceded Mickelson's birdie putt when the 48-year-old was faced with a three-footer to keep the contest alive.

That meant the players returned to the 18th for the first play-off hole and, with daylight fading, if the match was not resolved there they would use a makeshift 95-yard hole to decide the outcome.

It was advantage Mickelson off the tee as Woods was forced to lay up following an errant drive, but Mickelson's approach plugged in a green-side bunker and Woods hit his approach to seven feet, but after Mickelson could only make par, Woods missed the $9m putt and the makeshift hole was required.

Mickelson missed from 20 feet for a winning birdie on the first playing of the makeshift hole and from five feet the second time, but made no mistake from three feet at the third time of asking to finally seal victory.

He insisted he was relieved to have got one over his old rival: 'My heart can't take much more, it has been an incredible opportunity to have a day like this with Tiger. To be able to have just a little bit of smack talk over the coming years means a lot to me because I don't have much over him.'

====== 48 ========

MOSQUE SUPPORTED BY MEGHAN MARKLE'S CHARITY COOKBOOK 'HAS LINKS TO 19 TERRORISTS'

A community kitchen supported by Meghan Markle is based in a mosque with links to terror suspects, it was alleged last night.

The Al Manaar Muslim Cultural Heritage Centre is claimed to have links to 19 Islamic extremists including Jihadi John.

A report in the Telegraph said that one of the imams at the mosque near Grenfell Tower had suggested women who listened to music were at risk of becoming strippers.

The Duchess of Sussex has promoted a charity cookbook on the back of numerous visits to the Hubb Community Kitchen, based at the mosque.

A community kitchen supported by Meghan Markle, pictured preparing food there this week, is based in a mosque with links to terror suspects, it was alleged last night

Mohammed Emwazi (pictured), known as Jihadi John, was killed in an airstrike in November 2015

The imam in question, Samer Darwish, is reported to have suggested that women should not pray while they are on their periods.

Other jihadists with links to the mosque are claimed to include Choukri Ellekhlifi, Alexanda Kotey and Aine Davis.

Research apparently carried out by the Henry Jackson Society said the Duchess had been 'poorly advised' over her links to the mosque.

'This is not one or two isolated cases but 19 separate individuals,' a director of the anti-extremist group was quoted as saying.

A spokesman for the mosque told the newspaper that the Muslim centre was 'on the record rejecting and condemning extremism and terrorism'.

Abdulrahman Sayed described it as a 'vibrant and welcoming community hub' that encouraged a sense of belonging for Muslims.

Meghan has written the foreword to Together, a collection of global dishes by women from the Grenfell community and others, which aims to raise funds to expand their culinary work at the Al-Manaar mosque.

She returned to the mosque this week, putting on an apron and helping to prepare food.

Alexanda Kotey (left) and Aine Davis (right) are also said to have been in the ISIS 'Beatles'

Meghan helped prepare a large dish of rainbow roasted vegetables as she introduced chef Clare Smyth, a friend of hers, to the volunteers in the kitchen.

The book took the number one spot on Amazon within hours of being unveiled two months ago and has since sold nearly 40,000 copies in the UK alone, raising £210,000.

The kitchen, redesigned with the women's input to capture its spirit as a place for the community to come together over meals, now opens seven days a week, up from just two when it began last year.

The 37-year-old is understood to have made several private visits to the mosque in Westbourne Park.

Mohammed Emwazi, known as Jihadi John, was killed in an airstrike in November 2015.

Kotey is also said to have been one of the ISIS execution group which was dubbed the 'Beatles'.

Choukri Ellekhlifi (pictured, left) from Paddington and Mohammed Emwazi (pictured, right)

====== 49 ========

THESE CHILDREN ALL HAVE INVISIBLE FRIENDS WHO REALLY EXISTED

My three-year-old daughter, Rosalyn, is happily chatting away as we walk through countryside near our home. She is telling me about her morning at pre-school, the games she played and how she wants pasta for dinner, flitting from one subject to another in her usual excitable babble.

‘I’ve got a new best friend,’ she announces. ‘How lovely,’ I say. ‘What’s her name?’

‘Tilly. She lives in our house,’ comes the reply. ‘She’s my friend, and she’s dead. Alex is my friend, too. He lives here. He died. His mummy and grandad died, too. We play babies together,’ she announces, before moving on to the merits of strawberry ice cream over chocolate.

Rosalyn's mother said it was the matter of fact way she described how her daughter talked to 'dead people' that gave her chills

Rebecca Evans with her three-year-old daughter Rosalyn, who said she has seen ghosts at their north Devon home

There is something about the matter-of-fact way she tells me this, with that earnest naivety of a toddler, that makes my blood run cold.

We don’t know anyone called Tilly or Alex, nor have I ever talked to Rosalyn about death or the afterlife. The most she knows about this subject is when her grandparents’ cat was put to sleep, so I have no idea where this is coming from.

I’ve always prided myself on being an entirely rational, practical and sensible woman. A journalist for the past 17 years, I like facts and evidence. I am not superstitious, nor do I believe in ghosts.

Which is just as well. My husband Adrian, 40, works away in London during the week, so it is largely just myself and Rosalyn in our North Devon house, which dates back to the 1500s.

Our nearest neighbours are half a mile away and we live in the middle of a wood. I simply cannot allow myself to be scared by — let alone believe in — the supernatural.

But this isn’t the first time Rosalyn has spooked me. When she was 18 months old, I remember how she pointed to an outside cellar door and was adamant she could see sheep. I dismissed it at the time, but she kept shouting: ‘Look, Mummy, sheep, sheep!’ A few weeks later, we walked past again and she announced with a sad face: ‘Sheep gone now, Mummy.’

Although aware our house is built on the site of old sheep farming cottages, I put it to the back of my mind. After all, Rosalyn was just grappling with the rudiments of speech; she could have meant anything.

Rosalyn outside her home in north Devon where she claims to have seen ghosts

But now she’s three, and much more articulate and focused. And she continues to tell me about Tilly and Alex. No wonder I have started to feel unsettled in our home of three years. Although I don’t believe in ghosts, I would be lying if I said the idea of them didn’t scare me. There is so much in life we don’t understand, so much we don’t know, and there are so many accounts of people saying they’ve seen things they cannot rationally explain.

I decided to do some digging, in an effort to convince myself that there is nothing to Rosalyn’s imaginings.

I wish I hadn’t.

Census records for 1861 show there was a ten-year-old boy called Alexander Turner living here. And records for 30 years later, in 1891, list a Matilda Oke, aged 20. Records are patchy from this time, so it’s very likely that Matilda was living here when she was much younger.

Although I am struggling to convince myself that Alex, Tilly and the visiting flock of sheep are nothing more than the creation of a toddler’s vivid imagination, a recent study reveals that one in five Britons claims to have experienced the presence of a ghost.

I did some research and discovered that there are many rational parents in the same position as me — with children like the little boy, played by Haley Joel Osment, in the film The Sixth Sense — who say they ‘see dead people’.

Take mother-of-six Katie Jones, 33, a carer from Canterbury, Kent. She has an 11-year-old daughter Alice, who, from the age of two, has spoken of seeing people who are no longer here. Katie, who is married to landlord Gareth, 47, explains: ‘When Alice was two, she started to cry a lot, saying there were two men in her room staring and shouting at her, and she didn’t like it.

‘She then started to say that a girl called Sheila sat at the bottom of her bed crying for her mummy. I looked in old newspaper cuttings and found that there was a girl of that name murdered here. It chilled me to the core.

‘Alice then told me that my grandmother, also named Alice, who died a year before my daughter was born, was coming into her bedroom. She said that Nanna had told the girl and the men to go away, and they had.’

Katie says Alice would accurately describe the clothes her grandmother wore, something she couldn’t have known.

‘When Alice was three, a family member had a stillborn baby. Alice told me that Nanna had been to see her with a baby in her arms. She said the baby was named Max. There is no way she could’ve known this. We hadn’t told her about the baby or his name — she was too little to understand.

‘As the years have passed, she still says Max and Nanna are there. She even told me it was Max’s fourth birthday and, when I checked, she was right. She had the correct day and age.’

Katie continues: ‘When she was four, I remember her telling me that she had to give our next-door neighbour a message. Her husband had just died of cancer and she wanted to tell her to stop crying as he had told her he was fine.

‘When she first started saying things, I brushed it off as the chatter of a little girl, but the more it happened the more I came to realise she was telling the truth. Now I have no doubt she has a gift.

‘She has always felt comforted by her Nanna, but there have been some bad experiences. In our old house, she kept saying she saw a boy and she’d refuse to go upstairs. She’d stand there screaming, saying the boy wouldn’t let her go past. It used to really scare me.’

Now aged 11, Alice says that she’s seeing things less and less, but can clearly remember seeing her great-grandmother. ‘I always felt safe with my Nanna there, and I remember seeing the baby, too. I also remember it being his birthday.

‘I only feel scared when it’s someone I don’t know, but I see them less now. To any other children who see things like this, I would say you don’t have to be scared, as they are just looking out for you and trying to protect you.’

Tricia Jordan pictured with her son Luca, seven

Dr Stephen Westgarth, a member of the Royal College of Psychiatrists, a consultant child psychiatrist and medical director of Child Psychiatry UK, says such behaviour is normal for a young child.

‘Children’s imaginative worlds are limitless, and don’t contain the same social and physical rules of the adult world.

‘As a parent, I wouldn’t be worried about a child experiencing these episodes and, in some ways, it can be viewed as very positive, because it shows that they have a vivid and well-defined imagination.

‘The normal situation would be that, as the child grows and the brain develops, they begin to rationalise what they are experiencing and so the episodes will begin to wane.’

He says he has dealt with families who say their children are talking to ‘the beyond’, but says these tended to be spiritualists and strong believers in the afterlife, so there was a culture there already.

Yet, like me, mother-of-two Tricia Jordan is not clairvoyant, but she is in no doubt that her son talks to the dead.

The 32-year-old medical secretary says her seven-year-old son, Luca, has been ‘seeing’ her dead grandmother since he was a baby, which used to scare her, but she now feels comforted by it.

Tricia, from Newport, Gwent, who is married to postman Stuart, 37, and also has a four-year-old son, Bobby, says: ‘My grandmother passed away when Luca was 18 months old. He had just started to speak, and the first thing he told me was how Granny would tuck him up in bed. I found it really strange. It used to scare me, and I’d change the subject.

‘One of the eeriest things was him singing The Big Ship Sails On The Ally-Ally-O, which she always sang to me. He would sing it over and over, and tell me how Granny was there. I had never sung it to him. There is no way he could have known this song.

‘As time went on, I realised he wasn’t scared so it was all right.’

She describes another encounter when he was four: ‘One day, we passed a house near our home. He told me it was Martin’s house but he wasn’t there because he died in a fire. I checked the names on a census and a Martin had lived there. This really scared me.’

Luca hasn’t had any spooky sightings for some years, and today he has no memory of seeing his dead grandmother.

Tricia says that, while she has always believed in an afterlife, what she has experienced with her son has left her utterly convinced that the dead walk among us.

She says: ‘I have always believed a little bit, but what I have seen with Luca blew my mind. It made me believe completely.’

Six-year-old Riley has talked to people his mother Hollie could not see

Hollie Smith from New Addington, South London, also shares this conviction. She is certain her six-year-old son, Riley, has seen ghosts. The 32-year-old, who runs a party business with husband Colin, 40, says he has experienced too many things to leave her in any doubt as to their validity.

She says: ‘When he was two, we were out walking when he started pointing and waving, saying, “Look, Mummy, there’s a soldier, he’s waving at us.” There was no one there. He was so excited and animated. He then looked so disappointed when he told me the soldier had gone. I believed him. He was too little to make something like that up.

‘Surprisingly, I didn’t feel scared. I almost felt like it was a precious experience that someone from another life wanted to say hello.’

Hollie also recalls another instance when Riley was around 18 months old. ‘I walked into his bedroom and he was having a conversation with someone. His language was limited, but he was talking and answering and gesturing with someone who wasn’t there.

‘I asked him who it was. He said it was Humpty. He kept on telling me for days afterwards that Humpty was there. At the time, our neighbour had just died, a man who was very overweight. I had never sung this nursery rhyme to Riley. Maybe he’d picked it up elsewhere, but I think he was talking to our neighbour.’

Riley also had an imaginary friend at pre-school called George, who was so real to him that he was the only child he played with. She adds: ‘Yes, it could be nothing more than an imaginary friend, but in the context of these other things, I’m not so sure.

Celebrity psychic Honor Broxap believes such sightings should not be dismissed. ‘We are all born with a sixth sense,’ she says. ‘Yet we stop using it as we get older. Children are much more believing, less questioning or cynical. They have not yet been conditioned to think that it’s all just nonsense.

Alice, 11, said she has seen a number of ghosts from the age of three

‘You have to be careful that you don’t over-exaggerate it. Yes, children do have a vivid imagination, but more often than not, there is some truth in it.’

Clairvoyant medium and psychic artist Jackie Dennison agrees: ‘Children have imaginary friends. Maybe, it is just that, but perhaps it is sometimes more. They are very open to spirits and are unfazed by them. They take things in their stride. I believe we can also see layers of time, memories and echoes of what was once there.’

Jackie says that this might explain the sheep in my cellar, and, with regards to Tilly and Alex, she tells me not to worry about them: ‘I think the fact that they’re in your home is quite amazing. They are obviously happy that you’re living there as a family.’

Although I don’t share this sense of wonderment, I’m starting to feel a touch more at ease as to whatever is going on in my home. Rosalyn is happy, and also very young. I’m sure, like Luca and Riley, these stories will start to tail off as her real world expands, and she won’t remember much of what she tells me now.

Yet, although I’ve tried to dismiss it and laugh it off, there is a growing part of me that is no longer fully convinced that we’re entirely alone in our home.

====== 50 ========

FAMILY ISSUES HEARTBREAKING WARNING AFTER BOY, 19, DIED OF AN ACCIDENTAL OVERDOSE

Two 19-year-old boys died after accidentally ingesting fentanyl - an opioid 100 times more potent than heroin - in a pill they believed to be Percocet.

Gunnar Bundrick and Jake Morales had been out with friends in Tucson, Arizona, on November 2 before they went home to Bundrick's to play video games and eat pizza.

At some point in the evening, they each took a pill stamped 'Percocet', an opioid painkiller containing oxycodone which has a numbing effect.

However, it transpired it was laced with fentanyl - each pill with enough fentanyl to kill 10 adult males.

The boys were found the next morning; authorities believe they fell asleep and died almost instantly, and had been dead for hours before they were found.

Sadly, it's a familiar story to millions of families across the US - but this case has gone viral after Bundrick's aunt, Brandi Bundrick Nishnick, posted a message on Facebook urging teens to wake up to the lethal dangers of playing with opioids.

'Gunner never had a chance,' Brandi wrote in the post which has been shared more than 850,000 times.

Tragic: Gunner Bundrick (pictured) and his friend Jake Morales, both 19, died on November 3 after taking a pill labeled 'Percocet' that was laced with fentanyl

'Tell your kids Gunner’s story. Show them his picture. I can’t describe the amount of pain my brother, sister-in-law and Gunner’s sisters are going through- a pain that will NEVER end.'

In the last decade, painkillers became more ubiquitous than ever before.

Prescriptions were dished out at a rate that meant there were enough pills circulating for everyone in America to have their own supply.

Very few patients return and properly dispose of unused pills, rather keeping them in their cabinet in case they need them again.

What's more, they've become popular on the black market.

It means the rate of young people getting hooked on these drugs has rocketed - as has the rate of teens unwittingly overdosing.

States are trying to curb death risks for addicts by making Narcan (an overdose antidote) more accessible in public spaces.

But time and time again, it's clear that Narcan is important and useful, but not a solution.

As is the case with any crisis, many don't realize it could ever touch them. Why would you rush to get Narcan in your house if no one in your household goes near drugs?

And, regardless: Narcan is a poor match against large quantities of fentanyl. Even a touch of fentanyl can be lethal. Its effects take hold instantly, and often, silently.

That was the case for Bundrick and Morales.

'Gunner has no history of drug use, has never been a “problem child”, was a star athlete, wonderful son and brother and was extremely loved in his community,' Brandi wrote.

'We don’t know why he decided to take “a pill” that night. The only thing we can assume is that the curiosity of knowing what the “high” is like came into play? Again, we can only assume.'

Detectives are investigating other samples of the pills both boys took.

Results are still pending, but they believe each pill may have contained up to 20 milligrams of fentanyl.

Two milligrams of fentanyl is lethal, according to Oxford Treatment Center, an American Addiction Centers facility.

It means even if the boys had taken half a pill, it would have been enough to kill five men, and Narcan would have been a weak match to reverse the dose.

Authorities said 'both boys died...pretty immediately.'

'Both went to sleep and never woke up,' Brandi said, adding: 'That’s the most positive thing in Gunner’s whole story - that he felt no pain & didn’t suffer. (Although, positive is a generous way of putting it).'

Bundrick's mother and sisters found them in the morning, tried to perform CPR, but their efforts were futile.

Speaking out: Gunner's aunt Brandi (pictured together) is urging other parents to share this story with their kids

'Both boys had been dead for hours and there was nothing they, or the paramedics could do.'

Brandi shared her message on her own Facebook wall, speaking largely to her friends in Tucson and California, urging them to discuss this with their own kids - many of whom are, likely, like Gunner and Jake.

But her words resonated with many more.

'I’m sharing Gunner’s story because Gunner had a whole life ahead of him,' Brandi wrote.

'He had goals and aspirations. He wanted to be a dad. He wanted to continue to play football and baseball in college. He wanted to go hunting and fishing with this grandpa. Gunner wasn’t done.

'One bad choice, one stupid minor mistake was all it took. Gunner never had a chance.

'It’s very natural to be curious and want to “experiment” with things at Gunner’s age. Remember when we were in HS and kids considered experimenting with cigarettes?? It’s a different time now. Kids are experimenting with pills because they think they’re safe. They’ve seen them in their parents medicine cabinets from their moms car accident last year or from when their dad threw out his back. They seem harmless.These aren’t the pills in your parents medicine cabinet. They are made in someone’s garage who is trying to make a buck...a buck at the expense of our children’s lives.

'THERE CAN BE NO EXPERIMENTING. None.

'It’s truly a matter of life or death.You can’t see fentanyl. You can’t smell fentanyl.

'Tell your kids Gunner’s story. Show them his picture. I can’t describe the amount of pain my brother, sister-in-law and Gunner’s sisters are going through- a pain that will NEVER end. A hole that will NEVER be filled. A life that will never be brought back. A beautiful life.'

====== 51 ========

JAPAN IS HIT BY POWERFUL EARTHQUAKE NEAR FUKUSHIMA RADIATION DISASTER ZONE

A powerful earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 5.0 has hit the coast of Japan's Fukushima prefecture in the centre of the country today, Japan Meteorological Agency said.

The quake struck at at 11:30 pm local time, around an hour-and-a-half ago, with Japanese authorities describing it as a 'strong shake'.

It hit close to the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant in Ōkuma, an earthquake initiated a tsunami there in 2011 that sparked a nuclear disaster.

So far no major damage or injuries have been reported, and no tsunami warning has been issued.

The epicenter struck at a latitude of 37.0 degrees north and a longitude of 141.2 degrees east and at depth of 50 km on Honshu, Japan's main island.

One Twitter user said he felt a 'long rattling in Yokohama' - which is over 300 km away from the Fukushima Prefecture.

In this aerial image, Fukushima Daiichi Nucler Power Plant is seen after an 9.0 magnitude strong earthquake struck on March 11, 2011

Police officers wearing protective suits search for victims of an earthquake and a tsunami in Fukushima Prefecture in 2011

Authorities said that aftershocks are likely to continue and urged people to be careful.

One Twitter user said they felt it as far away as the country's capital: 'It was an earthquake? I felt that too?? I’m staying in Tokyo on a holiday and I just felt my whole Airbnb shake??'

The prefecture has a population of nearly two million people and includes large cities such as it's capital of the same name that has a population of 280,000 people.

Other large cities in the region include Aizuwakamatsu, Iwaki and Kōriyama.

Honshu, Japan's main island, is home to the prefecture and has a population of 104,000,000, including Tokyo.

====== 52 ========

PREGNANT MOTHER-OF-3 DESPERATELY SEARCHES FOR BONE MARROW DONOR AFTER 30 MILLION FAILED MATCHES

A mother-of-three with twins on the way is in desperate need of a bone marrow transplant to save her from leukemia.

But out of tens of millions of people - including her own sister - no one has proved a match for 36-year-old Susie Rabaca of Carson, California.

Rabaca was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in September, when she was approaching the third trimester of her pregnancy.

The fast-moving cancer mutates the bone marrow, which produces new blood cells. It can quickly take over the production of these cells, forcing the marrow to instead churn out malfunctioning blood that can't fight infection or clot as well.

AML is among the most aggressive forms of leukemia, but can sometimes be cured - if a patient gets a bone marrow transplant.

But that is easier said than done for Rabaca, whose blood profile is difficult to match because she is both Latina and Caucasian, Fox11 reported.

She intends to have a transplant just after her twins are born on December 6 - but Rabaca is still desperately searching for a match.

Her daughter (unidentified, left) keeps Susie Rabaca's (right) spirits high as she battled leukemia. Rabaca is 36, pregnant, and desperately searching for a one marrow donor

Leukemia comes in many forms, some of which strike children, while others are more likely to develop in adults.

Because they affect the blood, leukemias don't form tumors, but can become widespread throughout the body.

Broadly speaking, leukemia is expected to strike about 60,300 people in the US this year.

The first indications of leukemia are somewhat subtle, including joint or bone pain, unusual levels of fatigue, dizziness, fever or loss of appetite.

A little less than one third of these will be AML, according to the American Cancer Society.

Rabaca was one of those people. In September, her doctors told her that she would need a bone marrow transplant if she was going to survive.

Treatments and prognoses for leukemia are as diverse as the types of the blood cancer and the people that get it, and quite different from other cancer treatments.

Rabaca has an aggressive form of leukemia that saps her energy, but that hasn't stopped her from tirelessly advocating for more people to donate bone marrow

While surgery would be the first line of treatment for many cancers in their earlier stages, neither an operation nor radiation therapy are typically used to treat AML.

Chemotherapy is an effective way to kill cancer cells of most types, but it has to be used judiciously because it can be so destructive to healthy cells.

This is certainly the case for AML.

Because it produces new blood cells, the bone marrow is too precious to target to heavily with chemo on its own.

But when chemo drugs are given with stem cells in a bone marrow transplant, the body is more resilient.

Doctors are certain that this is the treatment plan that Rabaca needs - but they can't find bone marrow to treat her with.

Rabaca tried family members. Only her sister was a match at all, and only a partial one, so if her marrow was used, the grueling procedure might not even work.

Rabaca is mixed race - Caucasian and Latina - which makes it far harder for her to find a match, even among 30 million donors

So Rabaca joined BeTheMatch.org, a system meant to match donors with recipients in need.

'There’s 30 million people registered on BeTheMatch.org and none of them are my match,' she told Fox11.

Now, she's trying to widen the donor pool, calling for anyone and everyone to give her and the other 12,000 or so people who need a marrow donor the ultimate gift this holiday season.

'What I need people to do is join and they send you a kit, a little swab for your mouth, send it back, and if you’re my match it’s as simple as a blood draw, and that can possibly save my life,' she said in a tearful interview with Fox11.

In order for a bone marrow transplant to be safe and effective, a donor and recipient have to have sufficiently similar DNA, at least in a group of genes called the HLA system.

People of the same ethnic groups tend to have the most similar clusters of these particular genes.

So if you are from a smaller minority group, there are fewer people with similar HLA genes to yours.

If you are mixed-race, the odds become even more slim.

Rabaca keeps a brave face, though these statistics are discouraging - and her little girls and her hopes of seeing the babies she's carrying grow up help to lift her spirits.

'My 4-year-old, she just holds my hand, grabs my bald head, she just yeah, she’s my Little Rock,' she said.

But when she isn't occupied caring for her girls, Rabaca has become single-minded about her cancer battle.

'Finding my match is everything to me, so I can be here for the three children I have, and the two that I have on the way, it’s everything,' she told Fox11.

'It’s so easy, there’s no painful procedure, there’s no surgery it’s just swab your mouth and it’s as simple as a blood draw, and you can save somebody’s life, if not mine, somebody else's.'

====== 53 ========

POPE FRANCIS SNUBS HEAD OF US SEX ABUSE ADVISORY COMMISSION

Pope Francis named a close U.S. ally to an organizing committee for a February abuse prevention summit whose stakes have grown after the Holy See blocked U.S. bishops from taking action to address the scandal.

Chicago Cardinal Blase Cupich, a Francis appointee, will sit on on the preparatory committee, rather than the head of the U.S. bishop's conference or its top sex abuse official.

Notably absent from the lineup announced Friday was Boston Cardinal Sean O'Malley, who heads the pope's sex abuse advisory commission, though one of his members, the Rev. Hans Zollner, is the point-person for the group.

In addition to Zollner and Cupich, Maltese Archbishop Charles Scicluna, for a decade the Vatican's sex crimes prosecutor, and Indian Cardinal Oswald Gracias, a member of Francis' key cardinal adviser group.

Cupich's inclusion as a member of the Vatican organizing committee is significant, since he is not himself the head of a bishops' conference - as are Scicluna and Gracias - and would otherwise have no reason to attend the February summit.

Pope Francis named a close U.S. ally to an organizing committee for a February abuse prevention summit

Pope Francis snubbed Boston Cardinal Sean O'Malley, who heads the pope's sex abuse advisory commission, (left), instead picking Chicago Cardinal Blase Cupich (right) for a key committee that will organize an international church summit on sexual abuse

That Francis chose him over head of the U.S. bishops conference, Houston Cardinal Daniel DiNardo, is perhaps understood by the obvious tensions between DiNardo and the Vatican over the rejected U.S. accountability proposals and DiNardo's public call this summer for a Vatican investigation into the U.S. scandal, which Rome refused.

Cupich, on the other hand, is far more of a defender of the embattled pope, whose popularity in the U.S. has tumbled over his uneven handling of the abuse crisis.

'Pope Francis is calling for radical reform in the life of the church, for he understands that this crisis is about the abuse of power and a culture of protection and privilege, which have created a climate of secrecy, without accountability for misdeeds,' Cupich wrote in a blog post Thursday. 'All of that has to end.'

Francis summoned leaders of the world's bishops' conferences to the Vatican February 21-24 after the abuse scandal erupted in his native South America and again in the U.S. and he botched the case of a Chilean bishop implicated in cover-up.

The stakes of the meeting grew exponentially after the Vatican told U.S. bishops earlier this month not to vote on proposed new measures to investigate sexual misconduct or cover-up within their ranks.

The head of the U.S. bishops conference, Houston Cardinal Daniel DiNardo (above), was also snubbed after tension with the Vatican over his proposed abuse accountability rules

The Vatican still hasn't explained why it blocked the vote on a U.S. code of conduct for bishops and a lay-led board to investigate them, though the proposals were only given to the Vatican at the last minute and were said to contain legal problems.

DiNardo said the Holy See wanted to delay any vote until after the February global summit.

However, it is unlikely that such a diverse group of churchmen, some representing national churches that continue to deny or downplay the scandal, will over the course of four days come up with any universal proposals that come close to the accountability norms that U.S. bishops were seeking.

Cupich has said he was disappointed by the Vatican's decision, but at the time of the U.S. bishops' meeting, he proposed they go ahead and debate the measures and even came up with a revised proposal himself.

Zollner, who heads a safeguarding institute of study at the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome, acknowledged that the expectations were high going into the meeting.

'And it's understandable that they are high, given the gravity of the scandal that has shocked and hurt so many people, believers and not, in so many countries,' he told Vatican Media.

Vatican spokesman Greg Burke said Francis' decision to host the meeting showed he considered protection of minors a 'fundamental priority for the church.'

====== 54 ========

EVEN ANTS TAKE SICK DAYS! BUGS INFECTED WITH A DEADLY FUNGUS STAY CLEAR OF THEIR CO-WORKERS

Ants take 'sick days' to protect the rest of the colony from deadly infections.

That's according to a new study, which found that the common black garden ant steers clear of its co-workers when infected by a killer fungus.

The strategy halts the spread of the disease in order to protect the most vulnerable and important members of the colony from infection, scientists said.

Scroll down for video

Researchers studying the black garden ant (file photo) found that the bugs take 'sick days' to protect the rest of the colony from deadly infections

Researchers at the University of Lausanne in Switzerland used an automated ant-tracking system to study colonies of black garden ants.

The species is found across Europe, as well as parts of North America, South America, Australia and Asia.

Their workers are split into foragers, which collect food outside of the nest, and nurses, which care for the brood inside the nest.

Foragers are most likely to pick up infections, but interact less with other ants, and rarely come into contact with those inside the nest.

The researchers infected some of the ants with Metarhizium brunneum, a highly contagious fungus that kills the bugs in less than 48 hours.

Within a day of exposure, infected worker ants spent more time outside of the nest, and stayed away from their co-workers.

Foragers not exposed to the disease took more care to isolate themselves, and nurses carried the brood deeper into the nest.

Simulations showed that the tactics reduces the spread of infection throughout a colony, keeping the queen safe from the clutches of the killer fungus.

Researchers infected ants with Metarhizium brunneum, a highly contagious fungus that kills the bugs in less than 48 hours. Within a day of exposure, infected worker ants spent more time outside of the nest, and stayed away from their co-workers (stock image)

It remains unclear how the ants diagnose an infection, but they may be able to notice fungal spores present on themselves or their co-workers.

Researchers suggested humans could learn a thing or two about quarantine healthcare from social insects like ants.

'I think we could learn from the social insects about ways to decrease transmission of disease at the scale of the population,' lead author Dr Nathalie Stroeymeyt told New Scientist.

The biologist did, however, concede that the ants are good role models only up to a point.

'We can't really ask sick people to sacrifice themselves by dying in isolation like the ants do.'

The research was published in the journal Science.

====== 55 ========

DOCTORS CLASH WITH NRA ON TWITTER ESPECIALLY AFTER SHOOTING DEATH OF CHICAGO PHYSICIAN

Blood-stained operating rooms, blood-covered scrubs and shoes, and bullets piercing body parts and organs.

These are the photos medics have been sharing to Twitter in the aftermath of a Chicago doctor's death as doctors lobby the NRA for tighter gun control laws.

'Someone should tell self-important anti-gun doctors to stay in their lane. Half of the articles in Annals of Internal Medicine are pushing for gun control. Most upsetting, however, the medical community seems to have consulted NO ONE but themselves,' the National Rifle Association (NRA) tweeted.

This image recently tweeted by Dr. Kirstin M. Gee, shows her posing in her blood stained scrubs after treating a patient related to gun violence

Dr. Kristin Gee, of Los Angeles, was just one of many doctors who responded, posting a photo of her pants and shoes drenched in a gunshot victim's blood, writing: 'To the @NRA, this is what it looks like to stay in #mylane'.

Other physicians across the U.S. then jumped on board and started lobbying, taking to Twitter with 22,000 comments and the hashtags #thisismylane and #thisisourlane, posting photos of their encounters with gun violence and offering their own personal stories of treating such wounds.

The debate gained new urgency this week with the shooting death of an emergency room doctor outside the hospital where she worked, as physicians argue shootings are a public health crisis that they must play a key role in trying to stem.

Dr. Tamara O'Neal was killed Monday outside a hospital in Chicago in what police say was a dispute with her ex-fiance. The shooter and two other people — a responding police officer and a resident in the hospital's pharmacy — also died.

'It just shows that not only is this is in our lane, but this happens to us,' said Dr. Joseph Sakran, a trauma surgeon at Johns Hopkins Medicine in Baltimore who as a 17-year-old was shot in the throat by a stray bullet fired during a dispute at a high school football game.

Sakran created a Twitter account @ThisIsOurLane which in just two weeks has attracted nearly 15,000 followers. They include Dr. Peter Masiakos, a pediatric trauma surgeon in Boston, who wrote 'The Quiet Room' just hours after the mass shooting at a church in Sutherland Springs, Texas, about breaking the news that a loved one has died.

'We need to start talking about this as a public health issue. Politics aside, we have a problem that no other country has, and we shouldn't,' Masiakos said.

About 35,000 people each year are killed by guns in the United States, and about two-thirds are suicides. That's about 670 people per week and among the largest number of civilian gun deaths in the world.

The world's highest rate of gun deaths is in El Salvador with a rate of 72.5 per 100,00; the rate in the U.S. is 3.1 per 100,000. Among all European countries, the rate never breaks 1 gun death per 100,000, according to Small Arms Survey, a Switzerland-based research organization that examines firearms and violence.

'These are not just statistics. These are people, mothers, fathers, brothers, sisters that are being killed,' Sakran said. 'The worst part of my job is having to go out and talk to these families and to tell them that their loved one is never coming home.'

It's not the first time that medical professionals have taken on powerful industries: auto companies over seat belts, Big Tobacco over cigarettes and toys that posed choking hazards.

It's also not the first time that the gun lobby has pushed back against the medical community or researchers it considers to be biased.

Dr. Tamara O'Neal was one of the three people fatally shot Monday at Mercy Hospital, a Chicago hospital

In the 1990s, Congress barred the Centers for Disease Control from conducting research that advocated or pushed for gun control; while it didn't ban research from being conducted, it did have a chilling effect.

More recently, the NRA backed legislation in Florida — eventually overturned in court — that would have barred doctors from asking patients about guns in the home.

Dr. Stephanie Bonne, a trauma surgeon in New Jersey, was in the hospital when she saw the dispute playing out on Twitter.

Officer Samuel Jiminez (left) and pharmacy resident, Dayna Less (right), were also killed in the Chicago Mercy Hospital shooting

'I was reading this, and I was like 'Stay in my lane', are you kidding me? Gun violence is something I deal with every day. We're mopping it up in the hospital every day,' she said. 'My second sort of reaction is maybe people ought to see what this lane is really all about.'

Bonne works at a Level I trauma center — the top-level hospital for treating the most serious cases. Her hospital sees about 600 gunshot wounds each year, and she described the toll that unfolds: medically, psychologically and financially.

'It's always tragic and it's always preventable,' Bonne said.

Dr. Judy Melinek, a forensic pathologist in the San Francisco Bay area, examines the dead. She took to Twitter to push back at the gun lobby, posting: 'Do you have any idea how many bullets I pull out of corpses weekly? This isn't just my lane. It's my (expletive) highway.'

Glenda O'Neal, mother of of Dr. Tamara O'Neal, shows a photo of her family at their home Indiana

'The chutzpah, the gall is what really got to me,' Melinek told The Associated Press. 'The NRA seems to think they've cornered the market on expertise when it comes to guns. And that's not correct.'

She's conducted about 300 autopsies involving gunshot wounds, about half of those suicides. She's seen the damage from bullets and believes more and better research would help prevent gun violence.

Would GPS tracking on firearms or high-tech trigger locks make firearms safer, for example?

Dr. Arthur Przebinda, director of the gun rights advocacy group Doctors for Responsible Gun Ownership, said the pushback from physicians is largely driven by more liberal forces within medical academia and based on ignorance about firearms.

He described it as old, tired debate that shows a knee-jerk bias against firearms. Rather than stripping away constitutional rights, physicians should focus on finding ways to study the underlying causes of violence, he noted.

'These virtue-signaling physicians would be in their lane if they pursued better surgical techniques, better postoperative treatments. They are in the wrong profession if they want to cure society's ills,' Przebinda said. 'If that was their life's calling, they should have pursued a career path in psychology, criminology or the clergy.'

====== 56 ========

TWO TEENS STOLE SMALL AIRPLANE AT PRIVATE AIRSTRIP THEN FLEW 15 MILES BEFORE LANDING SUCCESSFULLY

Utah sheriff's deputies arrested two teens who stole a small airplane at a private airstrip and flew about 15 miles before landing successfully at another airport.

The 14-and 15-year-old boys stole the single-engine Cessna on Thursday from a private airstrip in Jensen along US Highway 40 about 15 miles west of the Colorado line.

Uintah County sheriff's office said the boys left a group home earlier this week and were staying with friends in the Jensen area.

Utah sheriff's deputies arrested two teens who stole a small airplane (pictured) at a private airstrip and flew about 15 miles before landing successfully at another airport

The 14-and 15-year-old boys stole the single-engine Cessna on Thursday from a private airstrip in Jensen along US Highway 40 about 15 miles west of the Colorado line

They apparently gained access to a tractor and drove to the airstrip, where they took off in the plane and were spotted flying low along US 40 near Gusher.

A short time later, they successfully landed at the Vernal Regional Airport.

They were arrested at the airport and were being held Thursday at the Split Mountain Youth Detention Center in Vernal.

Based on information obtained by investigators, the teens mentioned flying back towards the Wasatch Front, but decided not to and returned to Vernal where they landed at the airport.

Authorities didn't say whether or not the plane was damaged after the landing, but photos showed it sitting off to the side of the taxiway.

The investigation into the incident is ongoing.

====== 57 ========

FORMER SS GUARD, 95, IS CHARGED AS ACCESSORY TO 36,000 MURDERS

It was the Nazi death camp where Hitler sent the most 'incorrigible political enemies of the Reich'.

Prisoners at Mauthausen concentration camp in Austria were forced to climb 186 steps, while carrying 50-kilogram blocks of granite, 'without a second's rest' for 12 hours a day.

Harrowing images from the German Federal Archive show prisoners undertaking back-breaking labour at the camp, which was built around a working quarry with the mission to work inmates to death.

The Nazis named the camp 'the bone grinder' and one of its most punishing features was the brutal steps, roughly carved into the cliff face of the quarry, called the ‘Stairs of Death’.

The photo (left) shows inmates carrying roughly-hewn blocks of stone – often weighing as much as 50 kilograms – up the 186 stairs known as The Stairs of Death. Pictured (right) is the same stairs today, 72 years after the camp was liberated. The stairs have been refitted and straightened so that tourists can easily climb up and down them

Exhausted prisoners would often collapse and topple back on those following them, creating a horrific domino effect.

Christian Bernadac, a French resistance fighter who was imprisoned at Mauthausen, and later wrote a book titled The 186 Steps, recalled how the steps ‘were simply cut with a pick into the clay and rock, held in place by logs, unequal in height and tread, and therefore extremely difficult, not only for climbing but also for the descent.

The prisoners painstakingly carried the stone up the steps while dressed in their striped prison uniform and unsteady sandals.

'Stones rolled under our wooden-soled sandals, and we were forced to keep moving at a very rapid pace,' Mr Bernadac said.

'The work consisted of carrying up a stone of considerable size and weight, along the 186 steps, after which there was still a considerable distance to cover. The man who chose a stone found to be too small was out of luck. And all of this went on at the rate of eight to ten trips per day. The pace was infernal, without a second's rest.'

Another survivor said a guard would ask prisoners if they wanted to rest for a minute on a ledge - but would execute anyone who accepted the offer.

Former inmate Aba Lewitt recalled the brutal practice as Austria marked the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Mauthausen in 2015.

The crematorium oven at the Nazi death camp

He said: 'The guard said, "Well, then, sit over there" - then he shot him. He said the inmate tried to escape the camp. That happened umpteen times every day.'

Other prisons remembered how Hitler’s sadistic SS guards would often force prisoners to race up the stairs carrying the blocks of stone.

Those who survived the ordeal would then be placed in a line-up at the edge of the cliff, called 'The Parachutists Wall'. The men were held at gun-point and given the impossible choice of choosing whether to be shot or to push the prisoner in front of him off the cliff.

Some prisoners, unable to bear the tortures of the camp, would willfully jump as part of a suicide pact.

Between 122,766 and 320,000 people died at Mauthausen, Austria's largest concentration camp, in the years between the first railway wagon of inmates arrived in 1938 and the camp’s liberation by American troops in 1945.

If prisoners survived their hard labour shifts in the quarry, the SS and Kapos found other ways to kill them.

Boston University history professor James Schmidt wrote in a 2005 paper that inmates were starved to death in bunkers, hung, thrown at electric barb wire fences and killed in mass shootings.

Some 3,000 inmates died of hypothermia after being forced to take and icy shower and then stay outside, while others were drowned in large barrels of water.

Weakened prisoners were blasted with high pressure jets of ice-cold water with many suffering circulatory collapse and dying on the spot, drowning in water pooling in the concrete basin or perishing afterwards through pneumonia.

Mauthausen, situated about 12.5miles east of the city of Linz in Upper Austria, had some of the most brutal detention conditions of the time.

It was classified Grade III and was a place where ‘incorrigible political enemies of the Reich’ were sent to be exterminated.

Austrian and German criminals, political prisoners, homosexuals, Jehovah's Witnesses, and Roma were first imprisoned in the camp but as time went on Jews, Poles, Spanish civil war refugees and Soviets were also among the tortured.

A platoon of 23 men from the 11th Armored Division of the US Third Army, led by Staff Sgt. Albert J. Kosiek, liberated the camp on May 5, 1945.

Louis Haefliger, the Red Cross representative, who led the US troops to the camp recalled the horrific scenes of the day in the book 'The 186 Steps'.

'The camp at Mauthausen was overcrowded, and the camps of Gusen I and II filled beyond human limits. There were as many as five sick men to a narrow camp bed.

'There were sixty thousand human beings - men, women and children... The Krematorium chimney smoked day and night. The sanitary conditions were at the lowest imaginable level. They were dying of hunger,' Mr Haefliger said.

Today, the 'Stairs of Death' form part of the guided tours at the Mauthausen Memorial. The stairs have been redone and straightened so that tourists can easily climb up and down them.

The Mauthausen quarry is now overgrown with trees and bushes and much of the camp site is also covered by residential areas built after the war.

====== 58 ========

WOMAN REALISES SHE HAD A DRUNKEN ONE NIGHT STAND WITH HER FIANCÉ'S FATHER

A bride-to-be met her future father-in-law for the first time a few weeks before the wedding - only to discover they'd slept together.

The woman said she awkwardly met the older man named Martin at her front door in Brisbane along with his much-younger girlfriend Marnie.

She and Tony had a drunken one night stand after a day at the races years earlier when she was mostly dating older men and hadn't yet met her fiancé Tony.

A bride-to-be met her future father-in-law for the first time a few weeks before the wedding - only to discover they'd slept together years earlier (stock image)

Martin was divorced from Tony's mother and spent most of his time sailing around the world on a yacht, but came back to Australia just in time for the wedding.

The woman said she hadn't recognised him from family photos and only remembered their fling and sneaking out of his flat when they were suddenly face-to-face.

'I watched as a wave of recognition washed over Martin's face, too,' she told Kidspot.

Fortunately, he sailed away soon after the wedding and the pair haven't told anyone else in the family about their history for the past four years (stock image)

'Then I smiled politely, held out my hand and said, 'It's lovely to meet you, Martin and Marnie. Tony's told me so much about you'.'

Fortunately, Martin sailed away soon after the wedding and the pair haven't told anyone else in the family about their history for the past four years.

'They come home about once a year and I have to endure a polite smiling lunch or two, but that’s a small price to pay for keeping our secret,' she said.

====== 59 ========

AMERICAN WOMAN 'RAPED THEN MURDERED BY SHEPHERD' IN TBILISI

19-year-old shepherd Malkhaz Kobauri has been charged with murdering the Smith family after taking them to view a waterfall

An American woman was raped then murdered by a shepherd in ex-Soviet state Georgia after she was forced to watch the man shoot dead her husband and four year old son, say prosecutors.

The killer had logged onto pornographic websites before staging his attack, it is alleged.

The horrific case is due to go to trial but it was earlier believed Lora Joy Smith had died falling off a cliff as she fled the crime scene in the Khata Gorge, 52 miles from Tbilisi. Later reports alleged that Kobauri drowned her.

Now investigators - working with the assistance of the FBI - have said there is forensic evidence that 19-year-old shepherd Malkhaz Kobauri raped the terrified mother after killing her husband Ryan, and the couple's young son Caleb.

Then he murdered the 42-year-old woman in 'aggravating circumstances', forcing her off a cliff at gunpoint, it is alleged.

The shepherd had been showing the family to a scenic waterfall on July 4 this year when he turned the gun, first on husband Ryan and then on 4-year-old Caleb.

The Smith family were murdered on July 4 and new evidence suggests that Lora, 42, was raped by 19-year-old shepherd Malkhaz Kobauri after she shot dead Ryan, 43 and Caleb, 4

The Smiths were 'well respected' members of the local and expat community and had joined US and Georgian citizenship

An argument ensured after 43-year-old Ryan - who like his wife had joint US and Georgian citizenship - told Kobauri to take care with the hunting rifle he was carrying.

Ryan told him he had not acted cautiously enough with the weapon, 'especially in the presence of the child,' prosecutor David Kazarashvili told the court.

The 'irritated' shepherd then shot him in the back and face before shooting dead his son at point blank range, according to the autopsy.

New charges have been made against Kobauri that he raped the wife despite his defence's claims that he was incapable of having sex and was a virgin.

'The investigation found that before the incident, Malkhaz Kobauri had been visiting pornographic websites, which underlines his interest in this regard,' said prosecutor David Kazarashvili.

Lora Smith was found next to a waterfall on July 6, and her husband Ryan and four-year-old son Caleb were found later, authorities in Georgia said. Malkhaz Kobauri (pictured) is charged with their murder

Ryan (right) and Caleb (left) were shot dead with a hunting rifle on July 4, and Lora died when she fell off a cliff after being raped by 19-year-old Malkhaz Kobauri

DNA tests found the shepherd's sperm was found in the body of the victim and on her underwear, said reports citing law enforcement.

Earlier Georgian media reported that the police had found photos of Lora Smith on Kobauri's mobile, taken after she fell into the ravine.

Shortly after the DNA results from the autopsy were declared Kobauri's lawyer David Girgvliani quit the case.

Girgvliani did not give one specific reason, but said in a statement reported by Georgian news outlet Agenda that he has always 'fought against illegalities and his goal was to establish the truth' concerning the case.

'I refuse to continue to participate in the case. I wish success to those who will defend Kobauri's interests,' Girgvliani said.

The defendant's new lawyer Lekso Kobaidze insists his client is innocent, and he has retracted an earlier confession.

Lora (right with son Caleb) was a teacher while Ryan started a handcrafted Azerbaijani carpet business that sold rugs all over the world

The Smith family ran a business founded by Ryan (pictured) called ReWoven, that creates traditional, handcrafted Azerbaijani woven carpets

He is now claiming that 'two foreigners' killed the family and intimidated him into not saying a word.

Georgia Today reports that the accused says two men from the North Caucasus turned up in Khada Gorge in a black car before shooting dead the family.

However, no witnesses have come forward saying they also saw the car.

'They told me that they would kill my family members if I reported the murder,' Agenda quoted Kobauri as saying.

Kobauri's mother Mariam Martiashvili has said her son was forced to confess, but prosecutors say Kobauri showed police where the child's body was hidden.

If convicted in next month's jury trial Kobauri faces a life sentence.

A psychiatric examination of the shepherd Kobauri found he was fit to stand trial and has no mental health problems, Georgia today reported citing Kobauri's lawyer, Mr Kobaidze.

'Psychologists and psychiatrists jointly evaluated his mental condition and found that this person is mentally healthy,' Kobaidze said.

'I am sure the examination results will be released… Kobauri is an absolutely sane and balanced person,' he added.

Ryan Smith, who was originally from San Diego, California, and Lora Smith had been living in Georgia's eastern Marneuli city for more than 10 years.

They ran a business founded by Ryan called ReWoven, that creates handcrafted Azerbaijani woven carpets.

The company uses traditional methods of centuries past which have 'all but vanished'.

According to its website, it hopes maximize the benefits for 'weavers and their community today' and ensure the tradition continues.

Ryan, originally from California, and his wife Lora moved to Tbilisi 10 years ago to run a carpet weaving business called ReWoven

Each carpet costs more than $1,000 and they have been sold all over the world.

According to the company's website, Ryan left the US for Azerbaijan in 2002 because of his 'passion for travel and a love for people of other cultures'.

While living in the capital of Baku he started working in the rug market and was inspired to start his own rug weaving business.

Ryan left Azerbaijan in December 2005 and came back to the US where he met and married his wife.

Lora had been a teacher in Washington state but later worked as an English teacher through a Georgian government program.

Khada Gorge in the former Soviet state of Georgia, 52 miles from Tbilisi. The shepherd who is accused of their murder had been showing the family to a scenic waterfall on July 4

The couple then moved to Georgia in 2011, receiving Georgian citizenship a year later.

The Smiths were 'well respected' members of the local and expat community, having lived in the Marneuli region of eastern Georgia for around seven years.

Lora's body was the first to be found on July 6 - two days after the hike the family took with Kobauri.

According to the company's website, Ryan left the US for Azerbaijan in 2002 because of his 'passion for travel and a love for people of other cultures'

She was discovered by a Georgian emergency response group next to a waterfall in the Khada gorge.

The following day investigators recovered Ryan's body, but Caleb was not found for three days.

Agenda reported that the 4-year-old was only discovered on July 9 after Kobauri was remanded in custody and led officers to the place where he had buried the boy's body.

Kobauri is originally from the Akhalgori district in the Tskhinvali (South Ossetia) region, which is controlled by Russian forces and South Ossetian militia.

Since the 2008 Russia-Georgia war the accused has lived in the Mtskheta municipality of Georgia.

====== 60 ========

SHAQUILLE O'NEAL COMFORTS FAMILY SHAKEN BY THANKSGIVING CRASH AFTER BEING MADE SHERIFF'S 'DEPUTY'

Shaquille O'Neal rushed to help a family-of-five Thursday after they were involved in a head-on collision while he carried out deputy duty in Florida.

The retired basketball player joined the Broward County Sheriff's Office on Thanksgiving Day on a mission to hand out turkeys to the needy.

But he but didn't expect to witness a car crash involving a woman and four young children during the holiday.

Scroll down for video

This is the moment Shaquille O'Neal leaped into action to help a family who had just been involved in a crash

The basketball star was on his way to a turkey giveaway when he witnessed the accident scene on November 22

Shaq, who was riding in a squad car at the time, was just about to reach the turkey handout when he witnessed the crash in Broward County, Florida

O'Neal, 46, was seen comforting the shaken-up group as a team filmed his day with law enforcement as an auxiliary deputy with Sheriff Israel.

A Facebook page for the team that shared the clip explained how the former sports star, now known for his on-screen appearances among the very young, immediately tried his best to distract them from the scary incident.

'They came upon a car accident in their travels around the county and Deputy Shaq sprang into action to cheer up the kids,' BCO wrote on the social media website.

A one point the 7ft 1in star, aged 46, was recorded holding the hand of one of the boys and asking if he was alright while the parent made calls to pertaining to the two-car collision.

He was working alongside members of the Broward County Sheriff's Office after he was recently made an auxiliary deputy

The sports superstar immediately leaped into action and rushed to the family's side

The youngsters looked shocked after the dangerous incident then had the added surprise of the famous face attending the scene during his high-profile appearance.

One of the children being held by a member of O'Neal's entourage was then passed over to the parent and was videoed crying as mayhem surrounded them.

The black vehicle was severely crushed at the and the gray motor had a huge dent in the side suggesting it had been T-boned.

He was then seen on film trying to comfort a number of young children who appeared visibly shaken by the incident

O'Neal and his crew helped relieve the guardian of her caring role while she sorted out the necessities

The woman was visibly emotional following the collision

He donned a green Broward Sheriff T-shirt to carry out his duty

It's not clear who was in each vehicle involved but footage shows the airbag was inflated on the driver's side of the gray car.

While he's an NBA Hall of Fame figure, he was on his way to the American Police Hall of Fame & Museum in Titusville to give out free birds one Turkey Day.

Many of the grateful receivers couldn't believe their good fortune as they were handed food by O'Neal who they thanked and affectionately referred to as 'Shaq'.

Following the crash, Shaq then continued with his original objective - handing out turkeys to people in need

Those accepting the offering thanked the star and had huge grins on their faces

====== 61 ========

NEBRASKA TOWN HOME TO JUST TWO PEOPLE SWELLS TO MORE THAN TEN TIMES ITS SIZE FOR THANKSGIVING

An American town that has a population of just two people swelled to more than ten times its size because of a special Thanksgiving feast.

The tiny town of Gross, in Nebraska, used to be home to more than 600 people but now counts Mary and Mike Finnegan as its only residents.

When roads and railways were built in the nearby area, they skipped Gross, leading to residents moving out.

However, with the help of Ancestry.com, Mary and Mike were able to track down all of their family members for a special Thanksgiving meal.

The couple have run the town's only restaurant, The Nebraska Inn, for the past 33 years.

Friends and visitors constantly pass through the restaurant to taste Mary's 'famous' pan-fried chicken and coffee.

She also bakes 10 delicious homemade pies every Monday and they quickly sell out by Tuesday evening.

Married couple Mike and Mary Finnegan (pictured) are the only remaining residents of Nebraskan town Gross

The town's welcome sign reads 'Gross, Pop.2' but before the exodus, it used to number more than 600.

The couple used researchers at Ancestry.com to track down their family and the descendants of the Gross family, who were the town's founders.

They then invited them to the meal as special guests.

Mary said: 'Gross is kind of the heart of the community.

The couple hosted a Thanksgiving feast where they invited relatives and descendants of the town to come and enjoy a meal

'It's where everyone meets and has coffee to discuss the problems and the blessings of the day. It's just a very home-oriented place.'

The feast took place a few days before Thanksgiving, which will actually see Gross completely empty as the couple plan to drive to their daughter's house in a nearby town.

====== 62 ========

THE ROCKETTES ARE SLAMMED ONLINE OVER THE LACK OF DIVERSITY IN DANCERS

The Rockettes braved the cold temperatures on Thanksgiving Day to perform in the Macy's parade as per tradition.

In gold sequined outfits, 36 women took the New York City streets to perform a three-minute Christmas dance routine featuring high kicks, impeccable formation changes and precise dance moves.

But an influx of fans online were unimpressed with the lineup from this year's Rockettes as some said the women lacked diversity in skin color.

Tradition: The Rockettes performed during the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade on Thursday on the streets of New York City

Controversy: After the performance, people were commenting online about the lack of diversity in the dance group

Upset: People were mad the group of 36 women still appeared predominantly white

Rigorous: Every year, 80 women are chosen to be in the Rockettes and have to be between the height of 5'6'' and 5'10''

Not having it: One viewer said they only saw two black women in the group and one person who appeared to be of a different ethnicity

Clever: Another person said the performance looked like a white Christmas for the dance group

A vast majority of the women featured in the dance routine were white, which people said is a problem given the progress of diversity within other groups and organizations.

'Every year I'm not surprised to see the Rockettes think only white women, 2 black women, and 1 racially ambiguous one can dance,' one person wrote after they watched the 92nd Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade.

Their critique seemed warranted considering the lack of diversity during the performance.

But one person came to the defense of the Rockettes and how the group of women are chosen each year through an extensive audition process.

'Wow, people already complaining about the #Rockettes not having many women of color,' the person wrote on Twitter. 'You need to have a certain height and weight to get in, people! It shouldn't be about skin, it should be about how these women practice their whole lives to do something you can only dream of.'

There are specific requirements in order to be considered as a member of the Rockettes.

Women have to be between 5'6'' and 5'10'' in height to be considered for a coveted role in the dancing troop.

The height requirement is largely due to the amount of kick lines the women will do throughout their shows. Keeping the members closer in height makes the performances more visually appealing and synchronized.

Defensive: Some people didn't have an issue with the diversity on the screen and said the women were chosen based on skill over skin color

Poised: In 2017, more than 400 women showed up for auditions to be a Rockette

Unimpressed: People said this lack of diversity in the group happens every year

Concerned: One viewer wanted to know how diversity played a part when picking the dancers

True: One woman targeted people's defense of the group saying NYC is already diverse and believed there should be highly skilled dancers auditioning with a different ethnicity

Confused: People wanted to know how why the lack of diversity was still happening in 2018

In 2017, more than 400 women attended the auditions in hopes they would be chosen for the Rockettes. There are 80 spots open in total.

With these numbers, people found it hard to believe there was not more women who auditioned with the right dance skills that were not of another ethnicity besides white.

'I would think it's be pretty difficult to cast so many white women in NYC for the #Rockettes but they seem to pull it off every year,' one person wrote.

Another said: 'So I'm watching the Rockettes and I notice there's only 2 black women and no Asian women and the rest are white...so that's not cool. Not sure why it's so hard to hire diverse dancers in NYC, AKA the most diverse city in America.'

This statement attacks the defense some had that there just wasn't enough diverse models to fit the bill for what the dance company needed from its 80 members during the audition process.

'I see the Rockettes are literally having themselves a WHITE Christmas,' one person wrote after watching the parade.

But, there could be more diverse dancers in the group since only 36 made an appearance for the parade out of the 80 total members.

Besides performing in the parade, the dancers do annual Christmas Spectacular performances at Radio City Music Hall in NYC.

DailyMail.com has contacted Radio City Music Hall and the Rockettes for a comment.

====== 63 ========

COULD MEDICAL CANNABIS BE THE NEW THALIDOMIDE?

Each of the 400 phone calls to the cannabis dispensaries followed a script. ‘Hi,’ said a female voice. ‘I’m eight weeks pregnant and feeling really nauseated. Are there any products recommended for morning sickness?’

In two-thirds of cases, the reply was: ‘Yes’.

Around half of those callers who’d received an affirmative answer were then advised to buy a specific ‘cure’ in a form they could eat.

Just under 40 per cent were told to get it in a form that could be inhaled or smoked. Most of the remainder were offered tinctures or drinks.

The recommended cure in question? Marijuana. But far from being genuine requests for help from expectant mothers, the phone calls were part of a research project by the University of Colorado.

The researchers were pretending to be pregnant to see how cannabis — legal for medical reasons in the U.S. state of Colorado since 2000 and fully legal since 2014 — was being dispensed. The answers they received offer a worrying insight into the booming medical marijuana industry.

When 400 phone calls were made to cannabis dispensaries from a supposedly pregnant woman, two thirds recommended cannabis products for morning sickness (stock image)

‘After eight weeks [of pregnancy], everything should be good with consuming alcohol and weed,’ one dispensary assistant replied.

‘When I was pregnant and started to feel nauseous, I did not smoke [cannabis] more than two times a day,’ recommended the proprietor of another clinic.

‘Edible [marijuana] would not hurt the child,’ reassured another, telling the woman, wrongly, that something ‘going through your digestional tract’ will have no effect on an unborn child.

Of the 277 dispensaries that recommended cannabis as a cure for morning sickness, three-quarters then attempted to sell a version of the drug containing THC, the chemical that gives users a ‘high’.

Many also advised their pregnant patients to keep their consumption of this intoxicating drug secret from their doctor.

‘The doctor will probably just tell you that marijuana is bad for kids and try pushing pills on you,’ said one. ‘I do not know if the baby doctors are chill or not, [so] do not go stoned when you talk to them,’ warned another.

Perhaps those doctors had good reason for their reservations about cannabis. For the Colorado research paper, published in the journal Obstetrics and Gynaecology earlier this year, highlights cannabis as a matter of growing concern to medical practitioners across the world.

Increasingly, marijuana is being sold for medical reasons. Yet this ‘medical’ marijuana is very far from being the safe, natural healthcare product its often-rapacious suppliers would have us believe.

‘After eight weeks [of pregnancy], everything should be good with consuming alcohol and weed,’ one dispensary assistant said (stock image)

In some circumstances, the product — which is becoming legal in growing numbers of countries, including Canada, the U.S. and most recently Britain in highly specific circumstances — can be dangerous and possibly fatal. Particularly when taken by pregnant women.

To blame is a simple fact: a multitude of studies over several years have shown all forms of cannabis to be ‘teratogenic’. Meaning that, like tobacco or excessive alcohol, they can harm a foetus.

The drug has been linked to a host of serious birth defects, including at least six life-threatening deformities.

They include two congenital heart problems; a neurological condition called anencephaly, in which a child is born with a large portion of the brain missing, often dying within hours; and the birth defect gastroschisis, where the intestines develop outside the body.

‘Babies exposed to marijuana in utero are at increased risk of admission to neonatal intensive care units,’ says Torri Metz, a University of Utah professor who was among the Colorado study’s authors.

‘There are also concerns about possible long-term effects on the developing brain, impacting cognitive function and decreasing academic ability later in childhood.’

Which brings us to the situation in Britain, where there is pressure on the Government from an increasingly powerful cannabis lobby to loosen the NHS guidelines on medical cannabis use.

In Britain, there is pressure on the Government from an increasingly powerful cannabis lobby to loosen the NHS guidelines on medical cannabis use (stock image, cannabis oil)

They were relaxed this year following two high-profile cases involving children who suffer from serious forms of epilepsy.

One, Alfie Dingley, found an unlicensed, technically illegal cannabis oil from Holland prevented his seizures. Another, Billy Caldwell, had medical marijuana from Canada confiscated at customs, causing him to be admitted to hospital with what his family described as ‘life-threatening’ seizures.

In response to the public outcry over both cases, the Home Office relaxed the law to allow specialist doctors to prescribe unlicensed cannabis-based drugs to patients.

Their use is still limited to three distinct conditions: epilepsy, nausea associated with chemotherapy, and muscle stiffness associated with multiple sclerosis. Even then, patients must first have tried conventional medicines.

But the cannabis lobby is calling for it to be made more widely available, claiming six million Britons would eventually use the product for a variety of ailments, including pain and nausea relief. It would almost certainly mean dispensaries handing it out over the counter, just like in Colorado.

The British Medical Journal (BMJ) recently published an article arguing that the widespread use of medical cannabis could eventually lead to a public health crisis bearing comparison with the thalidomide disaster.

‘When I was pregnant and started to feel nauseous, I did not smoke [cannabis] more than two times a day,’ recommended the proprietor of another clinic (stock image)

That scandal, one of the most notorious in modern history, came after the drug thalidomide was given to large numbers of pregnant women from the late Fifties to the early Sixties, mostly to treat morning sickness.

It caused hundreds of thousands of miscarriages, and resulted in around 10,000 babies being severely deformed. Many died.

‘Thalidomide was marketed for anxiety, morning sickness and pain relief. Very similar claims are now being made about cannabis, and we are being told that millions of people should take it,’ says the author of the BMJ article, Dr Albert Reece, a professor of medicine at Edith Cowan University in Perth, Australia.

‘But as with thalidomide, no one is properly looking at the side-effects. They are frightening.

‘During foetal development, the presence of it increases the chances of a child developing heart and intestinal defects. In the womb, it can also not only interfere with brain development but basically amputate the forebrain.’

Even for adults, there are serious side-effects, he adds: ‘Cannabis is linked to serious psychiatric symptoms, including depression, anxiety, bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. Plus stroke, heart attack and 12 kinds of cancer.’

The cannabis doctors can now prescribe in Britain — albeit only to certain very sick patients — can have intoxicating levels of the chemical THC. Most British patients who will take it are expected to be given it in the form of capsules or a highly concentrated oil. However, chemically speaking, there will be very little to distinguish these medical products from what recreational cannabis users might smoke.

For example, Bedrocan, a Dutch-made brand which is one of the world’s most popular varieties of medical cannabis, contains 22 per cent THC according to its manufacturer’s website, making it more intoxicating even than the ‘skunk’ (which ranges from around 14 per cent to 20 per cent THC for ‘superskunk’) that illegal dealers sell.

The difference, says the manufacturer, is that Bedrocan — which consists purely of dried cannabis flowers — is chemically standardised, so it is easier to regulate dosage, when taking the product.

Meanwhile, in California, where medical cannabis was first made available 20 years ago and has since been entirely legalised, a high-profile organisation called ‘Cannamommy’ advertises a range of what it terms ‘safe, organic natural products’ designed for mothers. One popular brand of medical marijuana is called ‘Trainwreck’, advertised as a cure for migraines, pain and arthritis.

In California, where medical cannabis was first made available 20 years ago and has since been entirely legalised, a high-profile organisation called ‘Cannamommy’ advertises a range of what it terms ‘safe, organic natural products’ designed for mothers (stock image)

According to the maker, the product, which is between 12 and 21 per cent THC and is sold in a dried form suitable for smoking, ‘begins its hurtle through the mind with a surge of euphoria, awakening creativity and happiness’.

Another Cannamommy product, ‘Green Crack’, which it recommends for housewives suffering ‘fatigue, stress and depression’, induces ‘an invigorating mental buzz’. A third, ‘Guerilla Glue’, will apparently ‘deliver heavy-handed euphoria and relaxation, leaving you feeling glued to the couch’.

To critics, this sales patter suggests many customers are as interested in enjoying a legal high as they are the medical benefits.

And when medical marijuana products are aimed at mothers, it’s a dangerous trend, they argue.

‘We are at ground zero of this new medical epidemic, which will lead to havoc,’ says one critic, Karen Randall, an emergency room physician in Colorado. ‘The number of babies testing positive for THC has increased dramatically.’

Randall says her local area contains 15 medical cannabis dispensaries. ‘When a breast-feeding mother uses marijuana, it gets concentrated in the breast milk.

‘There are many studies that show memory is decreased with constant use, so I guess that in five to ten years, we are going to see a lot of kids with learning issues.’

Someone who illustrates the potential hazards is Marie McKillop, 36, from the Australian city of Brisbane, who says smoking marijuana during pregnancy led to her daughter’s death.

This ‘medical’ marijuana is very far from being the safe, natural healthcare product its often-rapacious suppliers would have us believe (stock image)

Her baby, named Crystal, weighed just 2lb 9oz at birth and was unable to breathe or feed unaided because of a serious congenital heart defect. She underwent three major heart surgeries, but died aged eight months.

Adding to her mother’s trauma was the fact she’d previously had four miscarriages. ‘I felt totally broken,’ Marie says.

At the time the tragedy occurred, several years ago, McKillop was a troubled young woman battling substance abuse problems.

Though clinicians advised her to steer clear of the hardest illegal narcotics, they concluded that she should continue to take marijuana while pregnant. ‘The fear was that if I stopped, it would give me withdrawal symptoms, which could make me miscarry,’ she recalls.

Later, in hospital reports, marijuana was described as a ‘high contributing factor’ to Crystal’s subsequent health problems.

Thankfully, having weaned herself off drugs, Marie has since had three healthy children.

Others won’t be so lucky.

Her doctor, Stuart Reece, believes the drug affects three key organs of an unborn child: the brain, the heart and the intestines.

He cites a study in the Toxicology Journal last year in which pregnant laboratory mice were exposed to cannabis, which found that ‘smoking marijuana during pregnancy even at low doses can be embryotoxic and fetotoxic’; and a University of Arkansas study also from 2017 which associated pre-natal cannabis exposure with ‘lower birth weight, life-long smaller head circumference, reduced length of gestation, neonatal neurological disturbances, [and] reduced function in specific cognitive domains’.

Two studies by the American Center for Disease Control have linked it to anencephaly, while the American Heart Association and American Academy of Pediatrics believe it increases rates of ventricular septal defect and Ebstein’s anomaly, two heart defects.

The drug’s links to gastroschisis — when the intestines develop outside the body — are documented by, among others, a long-running Canadian study and a Hawaiian research project which has linked cannabis to no fewer than 21 birth defects.

‘Only once has a known teratogen like cannabis been marketed globally,’ Dr Reece says.

‘That was thalidomide. It’s the reason we have the entire modern drug approval system, but the medical cannabis lobby is saying that system should be abandoned and the drug should be given to millions of people. It’s incredibly dangerous.’

Sharing this view are 166 of Britain’s most eminent pain relief doctors. Last month, they wrote to The Times, saying medical cannabis ‘will provide little or no long-term benefit in improving pain and may be associated with significant long-term adverse cognitive and mental-health detriment.’

Until this year’s relaxation in the law, drugs in Britain that are made from cannabis had an identical status to those derived from other illegal narcotics such as heroin (stock image)

They argued there is no medical evidence that, in this field, cannabis works. There are, however, serious psychological problems associated with its regular use.

The 166 doctors cited a report from the International Association for the Study of Pain, which took in the results of 104 studies.

The report concluded that 24 patients in pain would need to be treated for just one to experience any benefit.

Yet one in six would suffer some form of ‘harm’ due to side-effects, including nausea, dizziness, insomnia and depression.

And the report concluded: ‘It seems unlikely cannabinoids are highly effective medicines for chronic non-cancer pain.’

‘As doctors, the first law is to “do no harm”,’ says author Dr Raj Munglani, a chronic pain expert who practises in Cambridge and London. ‘We could end up damaging more people than we help. We fear new rules in the UK could cause a major public health crisis.’

Until this year’s relaxation in the law, drugs in Britain that are made from cannabis had an identical status to those derived from other illegal narcotics such as heroin.

To be licensed for medical use, these products must undergo stringent testing to ensure that they are effective and safe.

Though the licensing process takes several years, it’s perfectly possible to negotiate it.

The UK firm GW Pharmaceuticals has done just that with marijuana, developing two licensed drugs: Sativex (with moderate levels of THC) which treats seizures associated with multiple sclerosis, and Epidolex, for epilepsy (interestingly, patient notes make clear that they must never be taken by pregnant women).

In theory, there’s never been anything to stop other advocates of medical cannabis developing licensed products in this way to combat the myriad other conditions they say it can treat. But none have so far succeeded.

It seems it’s far easier to lobby politicians to relax the licensing laws. But the danger is that this could one day lead to a situation in Britain where, as in Colorado, cannabis is sold as a cure for morning sickness — with potentially terrifying consequences.

====== 64 ========

NEW YORK STATE SENATOR JOSE PERALTA DIED FROM SUDDEN SEPTIC SHOCK THAT LED TO ORGAN FAILURE

Jose Peralta died in hospital on Wednesday night surrounded by his family

New York State Senator Jose Peralta suffered from septic shock that eventually led to organ failure, his despondent widow has revealed.

Evelyn Peralta met with officials from New York City's Medical Examiner om Friday and shared what she was told by the office to the New York Post.

'All they said is that he was septic,' she said on Friday. 'And that led to organ failure.'

But more conclusive tests still need to be conducted.

'They need to do additional tests,' she added. 'There is no final conclusion yet. They don't know.'

'His body was poisoning itself,' she added stating that the septic caused a fatal blood infection.

Sepsis occurs when the immune system overreacts to an infection and releases chemicals into the blood that create widespread inflammation

Evelyn Peralta met with officials from New York City's Medical Examiner and revealed that her husband suffered from septic shock that led to organ failure

Peralta was just 47-year-old when he died on Wednesday and was the first Dominican-American senator.

'I just came back from viewing the body. The doctor said it's rare, [given] his age and that it happened so quick … he was healthy. He was a healthy guy,' said his wife.

According to the widow, her husband had complained of shortness of breath and pressure to his head before developing a fever on Tuesday. Doctors 'didn't find anything' at the time.

'I just came back from viewing the body. The doctor said it's rare, [given] his age and that it happened so quick … he was healthy. He was a healthy guy,' said his wife

Evelyn is now planing the funeral for her late husband and has asked for people to please 'write something nice.'

The couple have a 13-year-old son named Myles and a 21-year-old son named Matthew.

The Democrat was pronounced dead on Wednesday at 8pm at Elmhurst Hospital Center in Queens. His family was at the scene at the time.

He had served as the State Senator for New York's 13th District since 2010.

He served for eight years but was unseated in the recent election by fellow Democrat Jessica Ramos earlier this month.

She was among those who paid tribute to him after his death on Thursday, writing on Twitter: 'José Peralta is gone too soon.

'When I met him in 2003 I saw a world of promise for our community & though years later we'd disagree on tackling the issues, I know in his heart he loved his community.

'He was a true public servant. Strength & love to his wife, sons, and loved ones.'

A spokesman for the late politician told Pix 11: 'I can confirm that Senator Jose Peralta passed away on Wednesday.

'We have no further details to release at this time and ask that the family's privacy be respected.

The couple have a 13-year-old son named Myles and a 21-year-old son named Matthew

Jessica Ramos, who unseated Peralta in the recent elections, was among those to pay tribute to him after news of his death emerged

'Thank you to all who have reached out with words of kindness and support.'

Neither Mayor Bill de Blasio nor the Governor Andrew Cuomo has yet paid tribute to him or commented on his death.

In October, Peralta's Queens office was shuttered after a staff member opened an envelope which contained white powder.

It had not been addressed to him and was intended for Sen. Michael Gianaris but somehow ended up at Peralta's office.

====== 65 ========

BARBRA STREISAND ON WHY, AT 76, SHE FELT COMPELLED TO WRITE AN ALBUM OF PROTEST SONGS

Barbra Streisand has had her favourite dog Samantha cloned. The curly-haired Coton de Tulear accompanied her to every interview, concert and recording session for 14 years, and around Barbra’s neck today – setting off her outfit of slinky black flares, black fluffy jumper and black suede boots – is a beautiful miniature of her now departed pet.

Barbra identified with Sammie intensely. She had such an ‘oddball personality’ that Barbra says she mourned her death 18 months ago ‘as if it were a child’.

So much so that two of her new dogs, Miss Scarlett and Miss Violet, are genetic copies of Samantha, while a third, Miss Fanny, is a distant cousin.

‘Two of the dogs are made from Sammie,’ she tells me when we meet in a studio across the road from her house in Malibu.

‘They’re her DNA. They took a cell from the inside of Sammie’s cheek and another from the outside of her tummy right before she died. You don’t know if you’re going to get five dogs or none – I ended up with two.’

Barbra Streisand, pictured in 2016, has written her first album of original songs for over a decade

The staunch Democrat actively supported Hillary’s presidential bid and the album features protest songs against Donald Trump

Presumably she loved Sammie so much she wanted to replicate her – so are the puppies like her? ‘Not in personality but they look just like her. They’re curly-haired.

‘If these dogs are bred for shows they have straight hair. It’s such a rarity to get a curly-haired one, so in order to have another curly-haired dog I had to clone her. It’s unconditional love, love in sickness and health, curly or straight.’

Barbra brought Samantha along with her the last time we met, but she hasn’t brought her new dogs today. ‘Because there are three of them they’d take over,’ she says.

They’re over the road in Barbra’s magnificent home, which stands on a clifftop overlooking the Pacific where you can see whales and dolphins swimming. There are white picket fences and a rose garden with 800 of the world’s most sought-after hybrid bushes.

In a garage are her dolls’ houses, which she’s accumulated she says because she never had them as a child and likes decorating the rooms. She loves her home so much she rarely wants to leave and it reflects the masculine and feminine in her.

‘I like that combination of masculinity and femininity,’ she says. ‘I like the feminisation of masculinity. I’m fascinated even in furniture, I like strong architectural lines covered in pink velvet.

‘I like men who are masculine but have a feminine side, who cry at movies and like soft things. It makes them complex, and that’s interesting.’

She thinks it may be part of the legacy of losing her father Emanuel early. She was only 15 months old when he died from an accidental morphine overdose when in hospital after a seizure, leaving Barbra with a chasm that she’s struggled to fill all her life, either by looking for him in her men or looking for him in herself.

It didn’t help that her mother Diana, who died in 2002, was critical and unloving. Barbra rarely speaks about her, but told me, ‘I think there are parents who don’t really like themselves. They don’t like their offspring either. My mother meant well.

‘She loved me as best she could. She had dreams of her own and she wanted to be a singer. She was jealous, and that was staggering for me to learn.

‘She never praised me to my face but I have a feeling she praised me to other people. And she never hugged me or said, “I love you”. I’m more of a toucher than my mother.

‘Now I’m older I can do it, but for a long time touching felt alien. I always felt, “Why are you hugging me, what is this about?” I didn’t understand it and it felt uncomfortable.

She had her favourite dog, Samantha, cloned after her death 18 months ago. She mourned the pooch's passing like it was a child, and said she replicated her for the dog's curly hair

‘But I owe her my career. It was painful on the way up. I was always trying to prove to her that I was worthy of being somebody. She’d say, “Your voice needs strengthening. Put an egg in milk and whip it up.”

‘She called it a “guggle muggle”. It was disgusting. Other people praised my voice but my mother would say, “It’s not good enough, it’s not strong.”’

On a tour in 2012, as if Barbra wanted to close a chapter, she played a record her mother had made to the audience. ‘She had a beautiful voice. When I was young we had a week’s vacation every year in the Catskill Mountains in New York state, and that’s when my mother hired a pianist so she could make this record.

‘And we played it on stage so I could say, “Ma, you finally made it. You’re singing in front of thousands of people.” She always said she was too shy.

‘I had a good voice too. On the block I was known as the girl with the good voice and no father. I suppose you have to go through these turbulent times. She motivated me to prove I was worth it.’

Somehow, despite the lack of hugging, the young Barbra found self-belief and drive. Every time I meet her I think it’s going to be the last tour, the last album, but each time she confounds me.

In a career spanning more than 50 years, she’s won an array of awards, including Oscars, Grammys and Golden Globes. She’s always come across as a woman of power, and that power manifests itself in her new record Walls.

It’s her first album of original songs for over a decade, written as a protest against President Trump. Barbra’s a staunch Democrat. She’s never hidden her political devotion to her friends the Clintons, and actively supported Hillary’s presidential bid.

The songs work on two levels, love songs that can also be interpreted as protest songs. Barbra has written or co-written seven of the tracks, including Walls, about physical and emotional walls that keep you in as well as out, and Don’t Lie To Me, which has the lyric, ‘How do you win if we all lose?’.

The album ends with Happy Days Are Here Again, which she sang at Bill Clinton’s presidential inauguration gala – and sings now with deep irony.

She’s 76 but her voice sounds fresh and fierce. I tell her the record is raw, and joke that I felt relieved I wasn’t on Prozac when I heard it because I was able to feel the full experience.

‘Raw,’ she nods. ‘I’ve never thought of that word for it. But you’re right. Prozac dulls your senses. When my mother was on it she forgot to be angry. She had dementia as well and she forgot that she was always very angry, but that pill really helped.’

Maybe it was because of the dementia she forgot to be angry? ‘No, it was those pills.’

Barbra’s 1976 movie A Star Is Born, pictured, focused on acting rather than music, to reflect the changing times. This meant her character Esther Hoffman could write her own songs

The issues of control and criticism that have dominated her life surfaced again recently with the acclaimed remake of A Star Is Born, starring Lady Gaga (pictured with Barbra in 2015) and Bradley Cooper

I wonder why she’s never taken her political beliefs further. Surely there’s a situation vacant in the Democratic party that she may want to fill?

‘No. I don’t want to go into politics. I don’t think I’m articulate enough and it’s too late for me. I like my garden too much. I like staying home. I like privacy. I like writing my book… sort of.’

She’s talking about her autobiography, which has been in the pipeline for four years. ‘I’m trying to convince the publisher to do it in two volumes now.’

Last time we met, in New York, I brought Barbra a cake – a mocha cake with shaved almonds made to a recipe from her favourite childhood bakery in Brooklyn, which closed in 1974.

She said it took her right back to being 14 years old, when going for a cake was the highlight of her day. ‘Last time you brought me cake,’ she says today.

‘This time I get nothing. But that’s good. I’m on a diet.’ Barbra loves eating. ‘I hate exercise and I love to eat,’ she says.

‘I love food too much. I eat when I’m sad, I eat when I’m happy. This president made me anxious and hungry for pancakes. Buckwheat pancakes. I had to put butter on them and maple syrup to ease the pain.

‘People don’t realise what food does for you. It makes you feel good. Jason [her son with actor Elliott Gould] brought me pancakes recently from a great place. They’re made of oatmeal but obviously they have sugar in them and that’s why they taste so good. They’re very soothing to the brain.’

I tell her there’s a lot of anger in the album. ‘Oh yes,’ she says. ‘I believe in truth and that if I’m truthful in what I’m singing about that comes across as being passionately upset with what is happening to my country.

In Walls, the songs work on two levels, love songs that can also be interpreted as protest songs. Tracks include Don’t Lie To Me, which has the lyric, ‘How do you win if we all lose?’, and the titular track Walls, about physical and emotional walls that keep you in as well as out

‘I love my country and it’s painful to see democracy being assaulted, institutions being assaulted and women being assaulted.’ We digress to the topic of women’s abortion rights and the possibility that they could come under threat following the appointment of Trump-nominated judge Brett Kavanaugh – a Catholic – to the Supreme Court.

‘Can you imagine?’ she says darkly. ‘There’s a war between people who want to live in the future and look forward to the future, and people who want to live in the past. Imagine, women who for 40-something years have had the right to choose now perhaps won’t.’

Obviously, some women cast their ballots for Trump in the presidential election, but why would they vote for a man who doesn’t let them control their own bodies? ‘It’s a terribly complex thing,’ says Barbra.

‘A lot of women vote the way their husbands vote; they don’t believe enough in their own thoughts. Maybe that woman who’s so articulate, so experienced and so fit for the presidency [Hillary] was too intimidating.

‘Perhaps she made women feel unsuccessful. All of this was so devastating to me and I was heartbroken, so I wanted to write about it, sing about it and deliver an album. It was perfect timing, so I just did it.’

For much of her career, Barbra has attracted as much criticism as she has glory. She won acclaim for her acting roles in films such as 1973 romantic drama The Way We Were, with Robert Redford, but two of the three movies she both directed and starred in, The Prince Of Tides in 1991 and The Mirror Has Two Faces in 1996, weren’t critically well received.

And the reaction to the other, 1983’s Yentl, was hostile, although it garnered her a Golden Globe for best director, the first time a woman had won the award.

In the film, set in 1904, she played Polish girl Yentl, who dressed as a male and took the name of her late brother to allow her to attend a Jewish religious school, from which girls were barred. Again she was embracing those extremes of masculine and feminine she sees in herself.

She thinks it helped her find her father. ‘I did find him, during Yentl, I created him. I was the director, I was the one in control. I was the male figure. All of that was very cathartic.’

Perhaps she’s come to expect criticism, particularly from women, as she grew up believing she could do no right. She nods. ‘When people write about me and it’s not the truth it upsets me. Especially women writers.’ It’s true that the reviews of Yentl by women writers were particularly bitchy.

Barbra started out as a singer as a teenager but always dreamed of becoming an actress. When she achieved that ambition, she decided she also wanted to write, produce and direct, only to find that the idea of a woman in control intimidated both men and women.

The issues of control and criticism that have dominated her life surfaced again recently with the acclaimed remake of Barbra’s 1976 movie A Star Is Born, starring Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper.

In the 1976 version, which Barbra produced as well as starred in, she played struggling singer Esther Hoffman, with Kris Kristofferson as her mentor John Norman Howard. It won five Golden Globes as well as an Oscar for Barbra for co-writing the song Evergreen.

Because she was producing the film for First Artists – a company set up in 1969 by Paul Newman, Sidney Poitier and Barbra to enable them to launch more personal projects as well as exert creative control over them – Barbra had absolute veto over the final cut. Yet she edited out some of her own scenes because she didn’t want to be criticised for giving herself too much screen time.

She updated the film from the 1954 Judy Garland version, which focused on acting rather than music, to reflect the changing times. ‘I wanted Esther to write her own songs,’ she says.

Barbra has been married to her husband James Brolin, pictured together in June, for 20 years now. They met at a dinner party, where Barbra told him he had a bad haircut - and he has said he fell in love with her instantly because she was right

‘I wanted the character played by a liberated woman, yet I cut out certain scenes so I’d have less screen time.’ Why? ‘I love constructive criticism, it helps me learn something, but I didn’t want to be… just criticised.’

In the mid-70s, of course, Hollywood wasn’t used to a woman being in control, and instead of being praised for cutting her own scenes, Barbra was vilified. ‘I was put on a magazine cover bald and the headline was A Star Is Shorn.

‘They made me bald. Why? Because I was a woman in control and they wanted me to look horrible. So I got scared and I gave them power.

‘When I’m directing I give power away to make people feel needed. I want everybody to feel needed on set. That’s why I enjoy working in Britain.

‘I think you’re less intimidated by a woman with power, perhaps because you have a Queen and women prime ministers. I like manners. People in Britain have manners. They’re always very nice to me.’

The 1976 A Star Is Born made reference to Barbra’s nose, the defining feature of her unique beauty. It’s never been seen as a movie star nose, yet she’s always refused to have a nose job and she’s had to fight to keep it untouched in films and on record covers.

In this year’s A Star Is Born Lady Gaga’s nose is also a focus of attention. ‘I haven’t seen the whole movie but I know they used the nose thing,’ she shrugs. ‘But I saw the beginning and it looked like my movie. Bradley [Cooper] showed it to me and it started with the same concert and then singing in a little club.’

Oddly, both versions of the film have as a producer Jon Peters, Barbra’s former hairdresser who became her boyfriend and thereafter a big-shot producer – with Barbra’s help. Perhaps that’s why there are some of the same nuances.

‘Well, he was the one I gave the credit to,’ she says. Does she mean gave her power away to? ‘That’s right.’

Because he was her boyfriend? ‘Because I wanted him to have respect on the set. He had good ideas.

‘The first time I walked into his house he had crude burnt wood frames paired with lace curtains at the windows. He understood masculinity and femininity. I liked that.’

She likes strong, charismatic men – her lovers have included Warren Beatty, Ryan O’Neal, Don Johnson and Andre Agassi – but not bowing down to them. She has the right balance with her actor husband of 20 years James Brolin.

They met at a dinner party when she was making The Mirror Has Two Faces. She told him he had a bad haircut, and he has said he fell in love with her instantly because she was right.

‘My husband has the perfect forehead, the perfect jaw, the perfect teeth,’ she says. ‘Even when he makes me angry I still get a kick out of his symmetry.’

It always seems to me unfair that she was never acknowledged as a beauty herself. Today she has a mesmerising presence and her skin glows.

She’s been branded a perfectionist in the past, a control freak, and she’s despaired when people have criticised her or her work. She surprises me, then, when before we finish she reveals that she’s going to direct another film.

‘But I won’t give power away in the way I did earlier,’ she says. ‘I can’t really talk about it yet. We’ve signed contracts but until I know more... I can tell you I’m not acting, though. I don’t like acting. I don’t like make-believe. I like real life.’

That’s a shame, I tell her. She’s so good at it. ‘I’m c**p at it,’ she says, the shadow of the mother who shaped her almost tangible over her shoulder.

The album Walls is available now.

====== 66 ========

FBI SEEK HELP FROM DEER HUNTERS' CAMERAS TO LOCATE GIRL, 13, ABDUCTED FROM HER NORTH CAROLINA HOME

Authorities in a desperate search for abducted 13-year-old Hania Noelia Aguilar hope to find clues to her disappearance in footage provided by deer hunters in the area of Robeson County in North Carolina.

The Charlotte Observer reports that the FBI have asked for trail camera footage from hunters in the county for the period between November 5 and November 8 in the ongoing investigation.

'It is vitally important we find every piece of video that may help us determine the exact movements of the stolen SUV from Rosewood Mobile Home Park to Quincey Drive where it was found on November 8,' FBI spokeswoman Shelley Lynch said in a statement according to ABC News. 'Let us determine whether or not the footage you have can provide us with any investigative clues.'

Hania Noelia Aguilar, 13, was abducted outside the Rosewood Mobile Home Park in Lumberton, North Carolina

Areas of interest for the FBI that may be covered by any cameras include Highway 41/Elizabethtown Road, Lovett Road, Popes Crossing Road and Wire Grass Road.

Witnesses say a man dressed in black with a yellow bandanna grabbed Hania and forced her into a green Ford Expedition before driving off

Both the FBI and the Lumberton Police Department in North Carolina also posted a Thanksgiving Day reminder of the efforts to return the missing teen to her family under the hashtag #FindHania.

'She's a young girl, a young girl and her mom, I know her mom is hurting,' Patsy Jones, a neighbor who lives next door to Hania's family church, told ABC 11.

Witnesses say the eighth-grader went outside more than two weeks ago to start a relative's SUV to prepare to leave for the bus stop when she was grabbed by a man wearing black and a yellow bandanna who then forced her into an SUV and drove off.

Investigators have also been asking after the identity of the man who was caught on video near the scene of the abduction.

'The public was critical in the recovery of the SUV, now we need you to come through again for us. Who is the man on the video?' said Supervisory Resident Agent Andy Delarocha in an earlier news release.

Videos show a man wearing light colored shoes, a light-colored shirt and a hoodie.

Authorities also said the green Ford Expedition that was sought after in the abduction investigation was found in Lumberton, several miles from the mobile home park.

Agents are also conducting searches on foot and using drones as part of the search.

Authorities are looking to identify a man who was seen in the vicinity of the kidnapping described as wearing light colored shoes, a light-colored shirt and a hoodie

A reward for information in the disappearance of Hania was raised recently to $25,000 by the FBI, and North Carolina is offering a $5,000 reward as well.

Hania is described as a Hispanic girl who is 5 feet tall and weighs about 125 pounds, with black hair and brown eyes and was last seen wearing a blue shirt with flowers and blue jeans.

A special tip line was set up to investigators find Hania: (910) 272-5871.

====== 67 ========

HEAD OF GEORGE SOROS PHILANTHROPIC FOUNDATION CALLS FOR CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT OF FACEBOOK

The head of billionaire George Soros' philanthropic organization has called for 'congressional oversight' of Facebook after the company confirmed it had hired a public relations firm to dig up dirt on Soros.

'Sorry, but this needs independent, congressional oversight,' Open Society Foundations President Patrick Gaspard wrote on Twitter Wednesday, following Facebook's admission it had hired the Definers PR firm.

'So @facebook decides to drop a turkey on Thanksgiving eve, with admission that Definers was tasked by company leadership to target and smear George Soros because he publicly criticized their out of control business model,' Gaspard wrote.

Earlier Wednesday, Facebook's outgoing Head of Communications and Policy Elliot Schrage published a blog post detailing the company's decision to hire Definers Public Affairs, a Republican-affiliated firm, to research Soros.

Open Society Foundations President Patrick Gaspard (above last month) called for 'congressional oversight' of Facebook over the company's research on George Soros

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg (left) has said he will not step down after it was revealed that the company hired a PR firm to dig dirt on billionaire George Soros (right)

Schrage wrote that Definers had looked into Soros after the billionaire called Facebook a 'menace to society' in a speech at Davos in January 2018.

Definers later prepared and distributed research showing that Soros funded several organizations in an anti-Facebook coalition, Schrage wrote.

Regarding the research, Gaspard accused Facebook of 'making claims about a behind the scenes puppet master role that is a total fiction with the intent of delegitimization of critics and stirring up polarization.'

He compared it to efforts to portray Soros as the funding source behind the migrant caravan and protests against the confirmation of Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh.

Last week, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg denied having any knowledge of the company's PR campaign against Soros until it was made public by a New York Times investigation.

Sheryl Sandberg, the company's chief operating officer, also denied having knowledge of the hiring of Definers.

However, in a statement supplementing Schrage's blog post, she said she recently learned that the PR company's work had 'crossed my desk'.

Facebook's outgoing Head of Communications and Policy Elliot Schrage (above) published a blog post detailing the company's decision to hire Definers Public Affairs to research Soros

Schrage defended Facebook's investigation into Soros as a response to the liberal financier calling the company a 'menace to society' during a speech at the World Economic Forum in Davos last January.

'We had not heard such criticism from him before and wanted to determine if he had any financial motivation,' Schrage said Wednesday.

'Some of this work is being characterized as opposition research,' Schrage wrote.

'But I believe it would be irresponsible and unprofessional for us not to understand the backgrounds and potential conflicts of interest of our critics'.

Facebook has since cut ties with Definers. In the memo, Schrage said the blame lies with him and Facebook's communications team.

Schrage said Facebook did not ask Definers to create or distribute fake news.

Schrage announced in June he would be stepping down, in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, but has stayed on during the search for a replacement.

In an interview with CNN on Tuesday, Zuckerberg said he had no intention of stepping down as chairman of Facebook.

While some Facebook shareholders and analysts have called for Zuckerberg to step down as chairman, he said Tuesday 'That's not the plan'.

He told CNN on Tuesday that he hopes to work with Sandberg 'for decades' to come.

====== 68 ========

RUSSIA A BIGGER THREAT THAN ISIS OR AL-QAEDA, WARNS BRITAIN'S NEW ARMY CHIEF

General Mark Carleton-Smith (pictured), the new Chief of the General Staff, said Britain and its allies could not be 'complacent' about the Russian threat

Russia now poses a greater threat to Britain's security than Islamist extremist organisations such as ISIS and Al Qaeda, according to the new head of the Army.

General Mark Carleton-Smith, the new Chief of the General Staff, said Britain and its allies could not be 'complacent' about the Russian threat, especially following the Salisbury Novichok attack earlier this year.

He said Russia is seeking to exploit the West's vulnerabilities in more unconventional areas of warfare.

Speaking for the first time since his appointment, he told The Daily Telegraph: 'Russia today indisputably represents a far greater threat to our national security than Islamic extremist threats such as al-Qaeda and Isil.

'Russia has demonstrated that it is prepared to use military force to secure and expand its own national interests. The Russians seek to exploit vulnerability and weakness wherever they detect it.'

Gen Carleton-Smith, 54, said Russia sought to exploit Western weaknesses using sophisticated battle tactics, such as cyber, space or undersea warfare.

'Russia has embarked on a systematic effort to explore and exploit Western vulnerabilities, particularly in some of the non-traditional areas of cyber, space, undersea warfare,' he said.

'We cannot be complacent about the threat Russia poses or leave it uncontested. The most important conventional military response to Russia is the continued capabilities and coherence of the Nato alliance.' He was speaking after visiting British troops based in Estonia tasked with deterring Russian aggression against the Baltic states.

Gen Carleton-Smith said that with the destruction of ISIS's territories in Iraq and Syria, and losses to Al-Qaeda in Afghanistan, the threat to British security had evolved.

The new head of the Army warned of the Russian threat in a year which has seen an allegedly Kremlin-sponsored attack on Sergei and Yulia Skripal (pictured) in Salisbury

He said: 'The physical manifestation of the Islamist threat has diminished with the complete destruction of the geography of the so-called Caliphate'.

The married father-of-two began his military career in 1982 with operational service in Northern Ireland and the first Gulf War before he saw active service with the elite Special Air Service (SAS) in Bosnia.

He was awarded an MBE for his service in Kosovo before becoming an SAS Commanding Officer in 2002.

He commanded a brigade in Afghanistan, and from 2012-2015 served as director special forces and deputy chief of the defence staff.

====== 69 ========

PARENTS 'DISMISSED AS RACIST' BY SCHOOL WHEN THEY COMPLAINED ABOUT MIGRANT POSING AS 15-YEAR-OLD

A couple of weeks after the start of this term, pupils at Stoke High School in Ipswich were told that a new boy was joining their GCSE class.

His name was Siavash, and he had quite a life story: Born in Iran, the teenager had been forced to flee the Middle Eastern theocracy in mysterious circumstances, and had since managed to cross Europe, with only a younger brother for company.

Having arrived in the UK – it’s not clear how – the duo promptly claimed asylum, declaring themselves to be 15 and 12 years old respectively.

Around the same time, they appear to have come to the attention of a refugee charity, which helped to house them in Suffolk, where there is a small but well-established Iranian immigrant community.

Like any unaccompanied child refugees, the boys were informed that, should they remain in full-time education, they’d be looked after by the local authority until reaching the age of 25.

A pupil at Stoke High School in Ipswich posted a Snapchat image of a fellow student in his maths class with the caption, ‘how's there a 30-year-old man in our maths class?’

Should they gain sufficient qualifications, the taxpayer would even be required to foot the bill for them to attend university.

Siavash could speak only broken English, but by all accounts he threw himself into school life, turning up at the start of each day with smartly brushed hair and a spotless blazer, tie and V-neck sweater.

In class, he worked diligently and talked politely to teachers. Unlike many a teenager, the bespectacled youngster even managed to tuck his shirt in.

There was, however, a problem.

Namely: Large numbers of the 668 girls and boys at Stoke High, an under-performing academy in a gritty neighbourhood of Ipswich just south of the city centre, came rapidly to the conclusion that the supposed new boy was not actually a boy at all, but very much a fully-grown man.

At 6ft 1in, he stood head and shoulders over many classmates, while his chin was flecked with stubble.

He also boasted a protruding Adam’s apple and a hairline that, from a certain angle, was starting to recede. In the cold light of day, many suspected he was nearer 30 than 20.

A Facebook picture of a man with a moustache which parents at Stoke High School shared on social media as the account had the same name as Siavash

‘As soon as he started at the school, we all thought he looked far too old,’ a girl in Siavash’s year later recalled.

‘You could see the shadow of his beard on his face. He was wearing glasses, but they did not look prescription. It was almost as if he had them to make himself look younger. Everyone was making jokes as we went into registration saying, “What is a man doing in our school?”’

It didn’t take long for the rumour mill to creak into action, as students began to speculate that the Iranian asylum seeker was brazenly lying about his age in order to get a free education, and indeed remain in the country.

According to playground gossip, Siavash even confided to one contemporary that he was a married father of two who had decided to pose as a teenager because his academic qualifications weren’t recognised in the UK.

The parent of a GCSE pupil was told the Iranian had confessed to being in his mid-20s. ‘My son asked him how old he was and he replied that he was aged 25 and married with two kids,’ she told the Daily Mail.

This being 2018, the rumours soon hit social media. Around the time of half term, an image of Siavash in a Year 11 classroom appeared on Snapchat, a networking app popular with teenagers, accompanied by the caption ‘How is there a 30-year-old man in our maths class?’

Around the same time, parents began asking awkward questions, taking an understandably dim view of the potential presence of a grown man being educated alongside their children.

Stoke High School, which is an Ormiston Academy in Ipswich, where some of the parent's concerns were dismissed by staff, who in some cases had claimed the objections were motivated by racism

‘So my son’s school now let’s [sic] in 30-year-old men,’ wrote a woman calling herself Hollie Dayinn on Facebook. ‘That’s some huge security breach. Apparently, he sits on a bench at break times close to where a group of girls hang out, just looking.’

Desmond Newby, a 51-year-old father of two Stoke High pupils, was one of several reported to have removed their children from the school. ‘In one of the pictures I’ve seen of him, he has more of a beard than I do. I don’t want my kids there any longer until he is out.’

A third parent observed: ‘It’s not a nice thought that this man is around children and sitting with them at lunch.’

Eventually, the school passed on concerns about his age to the Home Office. On November 2, the day Siavash was due to sit a mock maths exam, it emerged that both he and his younger brother had been pulled out of Stoke High pending a full investigation.

The case immediately began to make headlines, with parents and politicians quick to raise concerns that the safety of potentially impressionable children had been seriously compromised.

‘He started FaceTiming my friend [using an online video link], sending her messages, asking how close she lived to the school,’ said one GCSE student.

‘She was a bit concerned because he seemed so old. He kept messaging her during the night, and in the morning he texted her saying, “Hello, how are you?” She told the maths teacher and was taken to the safeguarding teacher who looked at the messages and said there was nothing sinister about them.’

Serious questions were also raised about the school’s handling of the case, amid claims that complaints about Siavash had been blithely dismissed by staff, who in some cases had claimed the objections were motivated by racism.

‘I went in [to] complain but I was fobbed off. They are deluded and seem more worried about how the bloke might feel,’ said a father of two girls from Stoke High. ‘I am not aware of this lad having done anything inappropriate, but it’s clearly wrong that he should be in a class with children.’

At one point, parents began sharing links to a Facebook page belonging to a man with the same first name and surname as Siavash, and who also had a similar appearance.

The account claimed that he was a former architecture student from Islamic Azad University in Abadan, Iran, who had previously lived in the German city of Erfurt. Pictures showed the page’s owner with a full beard and hairy chest, posing with customised cars at a motor-racing event and sipping beer on a European street.

However, before it could be established whether the site did indeed belong to the young asylum seeker, it mysteriously vanished.

One picture taken from the alleged Facebook account of Siavash showed a man drinking beer

Whatever the truth about the Facebook page, the denouement of the investigation yesterday (Siavash was found to be an adult, though authorities accept that his supposedly 12-year-old brother is indeed a minor) proves that the wider concerns of pupils and parents at Stoke High were entirely justified.

The bizarre episode leaves the school, the Home Office, and other safeguarding authorities with serious questions to answer.

It also serves to highlight the seemingly routine abuse of laws which are designed to safeguard vulnerable refugees, but in reality provide a gaping loophole for fraudsters to exploit.

Britain’s system, under which around 3,000 unaccompanied youngsters – around 80 per cent of whom are male – claim asylum each year, came under intense scrutiny in 2016 when a busload of alleged teenagers arrived in Croydon after being transferred to the UK from Calais.

By claiming to be children, the new arrivals were entitled not just to free education, but also to places in local authority children’s homes (in areas with high migrant populations such as Kent, up to half the places in such homes are taken by unaccompanied asylum seekers).

Yet critics have long pointed out that those rules also create an incentive for adult migrants to simply destroy ID papers and pose as vulnerable children. Indeed, several of the young men who disembarked from the coaches in Croydon appeared to be square-jawed men in their 20s or 30s.

Photos of them duly made the front pages. A backbench Tory MP, David Davies, then fuelled the controversy by first claiming that the new arrivals ‘don’t look like children to me’ and then sparking outrage on the political Left by calling for unaccompanied child refugees to be given dental examinations to confirm their true age.

Ormiston Sudbury Academy principal Caroline Wilson

Such a procedure had, he pointed out, recently been introduced in Norway, where it was then revealed that nine out of ten of those tested were over 18. Yet for suggesting that Britain ought to follow the example of the Scandinavian bastion of liberalism, Davies was likened to Hitler.

Once the controversy in Croydon died down, the Home Office did eventually decide to tighten its procedures, however.

Over the following year, it raised 705 age disputes related to unaccompanied child asylum seekers. Of the 618 resolved, 402 (65 per cent) claimants were found to be over 18 and just 216 (35 per cent) were found to be children.

Today, the Department tells staff that asylum claimants who claim to be minors – yet lack reliable documentary evidence to support their claimed age – must be treated as adults when their appearance and demeanour ‘very strongly suggests that they are significantly over 18’.

Assessments of physical appearance can include indicators such as height, build, facial hair and voice pitch. When assessing demeanour, officials can take into account observations on the individual’s mannerisms, body posture and eye contact.

Crucially, when officials are unsure, the principle of ‘the benefit of the doubt’ is applied to the asylum seeker.

And earlier this year, a watchdog report revealed some local authorities had raised concerns that the ‘benefit of the doubt’ policy was being applied ‘too readily’.

That much was certainly true when they decided Siavash was just 15 years old. And plenty of parents will now be wondering just how many other British schoolchildren are sharing their classroom with grown adults.

====== 70 ========

DIVER CAPTURES STUNNING IMAGES OF BABY LIONFISH

Baby lionfish smaller than a thumbnail have been captured fanning out their transluscent fins to display their kaleidoscopic patterns in a set of stunning images.

Steven Kovacs managed to capture the close-up shots of the baby lionfish, each of them just days old, while diving at night off the coast of Palm Beach, Florida.

In the images, the tiny larvae resemble underwater peacocks as they show off their bright coloured patterns including luminous blues, greens and yellows.

The creatures are frequently described as one of the most beautiful and photogenic fish you are likely to come across when scuba diving; but divers are advised to keep their distance due to creatures' toxic sting.

Scroll down for video

The tiny fish larvae were spotted by a diver in the middle of the night when he discovered the luminous fish 100 feet (1,200 mt) below sea level in the Atlantic Ocean. The creatures are frequently described as one of the most beautiful and photogenic fish you are likely to come across when scuba diving; but in measure equally as poisonous

A sting from the attractive sea life's spines are extremely painful and can last for days. However, the babies are too small to deliver a venomous sting.

Mr Kovacs, a dentist, spotted the fish five miles off the Palm Beach coast, where he lives.

The 50-year-old discovered the luminous fish 100 feet (30 metres) below sea level and managed to capture the images of the fish, which grow up to become extremely venomous.

The larvae, each of them just days old, show off their patterns with the bright colours including blues, greens and yellows. A sting from the attractive sea life's spines are extremely painful, can last for days and cause a serious health emergency

The tiny lionfish are smaller than a thumbnail and were captured in these stunning images fanning out their translucent fins to display their kaleidoscopic colours. Females produce up to 2 million eggs per year. Babies hatch in just 2 days and until they are bigger remain relatively near the surface of the water

Mr Kovacs said: 'I was looking for lionfish larvae to photograph while diving because I know they are so beautiful.

'When they flare their fins out in full display, you get to see so many different colours and patterns in each of the larvae.

'They usually display two types of behaviour when you see them, either they try to swim away very quickly from any lights or they flare their fins out in full display and slowly rotate in a circle.

'Nobody knows yet why they choose to do either of these things.

'I feel privileged to have seen them, it is very exciting to see all the different colours.'

Lionfish are often found lurking in quiet areas of a reef or a wreck, they grow up to have a very distinctive striped body, and a series of spines and fins that open up in a magnificent display of flamboyance.

Mr Kovacs was amazed by the colours and managed to capture the shots of the tiny larvae. He says that they usually display two types of behaviour when you see them, either they try to swim away very quickly from any lights or they flare their fins out in full display and slowly rotate in a circle

They deliver stings on a defensive basis from their sharp, slender spines.

Symptoms of envenomation include intense throbbing, sharp pain, tingling sensations, sweatiness and blistering.

Symptoms include headaches, nausea, abdominal pain, delirium, seizures, paralysis of limbs, changes in blood pressure, breathing difficulties, heart failure and loss of consciousness.

Females produce up to 2 million eggs per year. Babies hatch in just 2 days and until they are bigger remain relatively near the surface of the water.

The fish are attractive yet poisonous are often described as one of the most photogenic fish you are likely to come across when scuba diving; a fish as beautiful as it is dangerous. They are often found lurking in quiet areas of reefs and grow up to have a very distinctive striped body, and a series of spines and fins that open up in a magnificent display of flamboyance

Lionfish can be aggressive, even engaging potential threats with a 'spines forward' approach.

Basic treatment of a sting includes immersing the afflicted area in hot water to 113 F (45°C). Professional medical attention should then be sought.

The species are not native to Atlantic waters and have very few predators which makes them a problem for conservationalists.

They can cause damage to coral reefs, sea grasses and mangroves and due to their high rate of reproduction and growth, its voracious feeding capacity and lack of predators can cause a reduction in the growth and survival of the native predators.

They are carnivores that feed on small crustaceans and fish, including the young of important commercial fish species such as snapper and grouper.

====== 71 ========

THE MOST EPIC BUST UPS FROM THE PAST TWO SEASONS OF FLORIBAMA SHORE

When you take eight fiery, feisty young southerners and throw them together in a Panama City Beach house things are going to get heated. Which is why it's hardly surprising that over the past two seasons of MTV Floribama Shore we've been treated to some explosive bust ups.

From alcohol-fuelled bar brawls to ferocious punch ups and wild slanging matches, fighting has become a common feature of summers at the shore. The housemates may have soft southern drawls, but their tempers are anything but gentle.

Before the show took a mid-season hiatus, we were treated to one of the best bust-ups in Floribama history when Kortni's ex-boyfriend Logan came to blows with the entire cast on a night out.

Bust-ups: Over the past two seasons of MTV Floribama Shore we've been treated to some explosive fights, with fiery tempered Kortni (pictured) often at the center of the drama

Before we get to see how that particular fight concluded when MTV Floribama Shore returns with brand new episodes next Thursday November 29 at 9/8c (following an all-new episode of Jersey Shore Family Vacation), here we take a look at some of the most outrageous fights and best brawls in the show's history.

Dollar draft beer brawl

Possibly the most memorable of the Floribama Shore bust-ups occurred during the housemates' first summer at the shore when a night out turned into a chaotic mass brawl on the street.

The tension started when a guy called Nilsa 'b***hy' and 'rude' for turning down a free drink, which caused Kirk to explode in rage.

Flared tempers: One of the most memorable of the Floribama Shore bust-ups occurred during the housemates' first summer at the shore when a night out turned into a chaotic mass brawl

'Kirk is a little hotheaded,' Gus admitted. 'Once that lightswitch goes off you better step back because there's about to be a volcano erupting.'

The chaotic fight spilled out onto the street, as Kirk was joined by Kortni who began flinging punches before being carried away by bar security. 'Kortni just started swinging like a wild-woman,' Candace later recalled. 'I don't even think Kortni knew who she was fighting.'

Codi noted that it was unsurprising that the fight had kicked off at the bar that was famed for cheap booze: 'This is the type of place where ''those people'' come. And you know what I mean by ''those people'' — the dollar draft people.'

Toilet seat toothpaste

She's not usually the cast member to start a fight, but a case of missing toothpaste sent Aimee over the edge during the first season of Floribama Shore.

Toothpaste trouble: Aimee found herself at the center of one of the most ridiculous Floribama Shore bust-ups when she confronted Codi over some missing toiletries

'I'm so angry right now,' she fumed. 'This isn't some off brand f***ing toothpaste. This is the good stuff.'

Matters were made worse when the toothpaste in question was found wedged under the toilet seat with its contents squirted onto the floor, which an already-angry Aimee then stood in.

Codi initially took the brunt of the rage, as Aimee - adorned in a satin robe and blue wig - hurled accusations at him in the kitchen. But it was Gus who fared the worst in the end when Aimee hurled a glass at him, cementing the incident as the biggest overreaction in Floribama Shore history.

The flying crackers

In what started out as one of the milder bar brawls - but is memorable for its ridiculousness - Kirk decided to defend the honor of his female housemates using packets of crackers.

Bar brawls: After two fights on a night out at the Floribama Shore Kirk ended up in handcuffs

When he heard a man insult the girls, Kirk retaliated by flinging packets of saltines across the bar at him. A tussle quickly followed, which ended just short of punches being thrown.

Things turned a little more serious, however, when the group moved on to Coyote Ugly, and Kirk ended up slapping another heckler who this time targeted Jeremiah, referring to him as a b***h'. Although the group quickly left the bar, the police later turned up at the Floribama Shore house and Kirk was led away in handcuffs.

'You don't call crazy people crazy'

It didn't take long for the fights to kick off in Season Two. On the first day back at the shore, Gus and Codi's prank on the girls proved to be a little more effective than they'd expected when a furious Kortni ended up tearing through the Floribama Shore house.

A prank too far: A furious Kortni ended up tearing through the Floribama Shore house and punching a wall after Gus and Codi switched her belongings with Nilsa's

In an attempt to cause tension between Nilsa and Kortni, Gus and Codi switched the girls' belongings between rooms. When Korni discovered the switch she quickly turned into - in Nilsa's words - a 'psychoa** b***h'.

Candace pointed out that 'you don't call crazy people crazy', but it was too late for the enraged Kortni. Realizing the true culprits, she made a beeline for Cori, who took refuge in the bathroom while she hurled his clothes down the stairs and punched the wall.

Steering clear of the drama, Gus mused: 'That escalated a little worse than I thought.'

A look too far

A dirty look from Jeremiah's one-time fling Kayla Jo nearly turned into a full-on punch up with Kortni and Nilsa during the first summer at the shore.

Dirty look: Kortni (center) flew to Nilsa's defence after Jeremiah's one-time fling Kayla Jo (right) appeared to be starting trouble with her on a night out in Season One

Nilsa may have been ready to let the whole incident go, but Kornti sprang to her defence. Luckily the fight concluded with angry words but zero violence. As a slightly disappointed Codi put it: 'They're both coming in with strong winds but no blows.'

Things didn't improve between Nilsa and Kayla Jo. Nilsa later attempted to make peace by offering her nemesis some frozen pizza, but Kayla Jo took a bite of the slice and ditched it.

'The worst thing someone can do to me is to take a piece of my pizza and throw it away like it means nothing,' Nilsa fumed. 'She didn't just disrespect me, she disrespected my pizza.'

Hair we go again

Gus takes his personal grooming very seriously. Especially his hair. So throwing insults about his locks was never going to end well.

Standoff: Gus ended up in a tense confrontation with a guy at Newby's bar who insulted his hairstyle, which later turned into a full-blown punch up when the housemates got involved

When a guy at Newby's bar mocked Gus's perfectly coiffed hair and used a derogatory term, his housemates quickly jumped to his defence.

Candace wasn't about to let the incident slide and confronted the man, resulting in a full-on mass brawl on the deck with all three girls throwing punches.

Logan returns

The housemates spent most of their second summer at the shore trying to get rid of Kornti's ex-boyfriend Logan, so when he showed up in the final episode before the Season Two hiatus things were bound to get ugly.

High emotions: Kortni furiously hurled a drink over her ex-boyfriend Logan (left) as he brawled with Floribama Shore housemate Jeremiah (right)

Logan repeatedly approached the guys at a bar, and when he brought up his ex the tension boiled over. This happened to be just as the girls arrived, with Kornti instantly hurling a drink at her former lover.

The episode ended just as the fight hit epic proportions. But if the start of the season is anything to go by, we can expect to see plenty more brawls and bust-ups when MTV Floribama Shore returns next week.

MTV Floribama Shore Season Two returns with new episodes on Thursday November 29 at 9/8c following an all-new episode of Jersey Shore Family Vacation.

====== 72 ========

CAITLYN JENNER AND SOPHIA HUTCHINS SPEND THANKSGIVING WITH JENNER FAMILY AND FIRST TWO EX-WIVES

There had been talk that Caitlyn Jenner hadn't gotten any invitations for Thanksgiving dinner from the Kardashian/Jenner clan, according to RadarOnline earlier this month.

Well -- it turns out she did, in fact, get to spend time with family over the holiday.

The 69-year old reality star, along with girlfriend Sophia Hutchins, enjoyed turkey day at her daughter Cassandra's home, as seen by a picture she shared on her Instagram.

Holiday with family: Caitlyn Jenner spent Thanksgiving at her daughter Cassandra's home with family and girlfriend Sophia Hutchins

'Congratulations to my daughter Casey, and her husband Michael, for getting their beautiful home finished one day before thanksgiving!' Caitlyn captioned in the photo taken during their festive get-together.

She added: It’s gorgeous! Happy Thanksgiving to all!'

Sophia, who has been described by Jenner as a 'very-close' friend, can be seen standing to her right in an all-black ensemble.

She too shared the photo on her Instagram, writing: 'Thanksgiving 2018! Thankful for so much!'

Cassandra is pictured second from left with her husband's arm around her; first ex-wife Chrystie Scott is second to left of Caitlyn, while first ex-wife Linda Thompson is to her right; sons Brandon (center seated ) and Burt (far right) were also on hand for the festive event

Family matters: The 69-year old reality star had reportedly been feeling 'left out in the cold' due to a lack of invitations from family for dinner and the holidays

Among those to share in family fun was Caitlyn's first and second ex-wives: Chrystie Scott and Linda Thompson respectively.

Scott is the mother of daughter Cassandra and son Burt.

Thompson shares sons Brandon and Brody with Caitlyn.

Brandon, along with his estranged wife Leah and their baby girl Eva were also on hand, as was Caitlyn's oldest son Burt, his wife Valerie and their young son Bodhi.

Home for the holidays: Sophia also shared the Jenner holiday photo on her Instagram, writing: 'Thanksgiving 2018! Thankful for so much'; the two are pictured less than a week ago

Caitlyn's holiday plans, or lack thereof, were sounding pretty bleak on the home front earlier this month.

'This time of year used to be packed full of fun when she was with Kris and the kids, but lately Caitlyn’s been feeling left out in the cold,' a source revealed to RadarOnline.

'They never invite her over for dinner and no one’s even mentioned Thanksgiving and Christmas, which she finds incredibly hurtful,' the source added in the November 7 edition.

But, from the looks from her family Instagram picture and caption, her Thanksgiving worked out just fine. Caitlyn's 9.1million followers will have to wait another month to see how the Christmas holiday pans out for her and Sophia.

Caitlyn's relationship with the Kardashian side of the family appeared to sour after she was critical of her step-kids and ex-wife Kris in her memoir, The Secrets Of My Life.

====== 73 ========

KIM KARDASHIAN RECRUITS DAUGHTER NORTH TO DO HER MAKE-UP TO PROMOTE BEAUTY BRAND

Kim Kardashian put her daughter North and niece Dream to work on Friday in a bid to promote her cosmetics range.

The 38-year-old shared a video with her fans that showed her five-year-old applying foundation to her mother's face using a beauty blender.

North then started writing KKW on Kim's face using a pencil, but ended up having a tantrum.

Kim seemed unfazed and continued to film her daughter while she lay on the floor crying and shared it with her 120m followers.

Oh dear: Kim Kardashian put her daughter North to work on Friday in a bid to promote her cosmetics range... but the five-year-old had a tantrum

'My make-up artists usually don't act this way': Kim seemed unfazed and continued to film her daughter while she lay on the floor crying

She told a tearful North: 'I moved I'm sorry... I didn't know it cause this much of a big deal. My make-up artists usually don't act this way. Ok let's focus.'

It seems Kim was able to calm her daughter down off camera and they resumed filming.

'Ok we're back, we got it together,' Kim said.

The make-up tutorial with 'Miss North', as Kim called her, also hit a snag when the pair spilled foundation on Kris Jenner's carpet.

'Final look': North put her artistic flair to use on her mother's face

Masterpiece: North had a few attempts at her mom's make-up, eventually settling on this creation

A family affair: Kim's niece Dream added a finishing touch with highlighter

'My mom is going to kill us,' Kim said.

North had a few attempts at doing her mother's make -up and eventually settled on 'final look' which included black freckles and dark eye make-up.

Dream, who is the two-year-old daughter of Rob Kardashian and his ex Blac Chyna, came in for some finishing touches with highlighter.

Junior glam squad: Earlier North attempted to apply foundation to her mom's face

'It's about blending, boo': Kim tried to give her daughter a little guidance

Grandma won't be pleased: The pair split foundation on Kris Jenner's carpet

Kim's KKW Beauty release her first ever mascara this Friday and the lash-booster comes as a part of the brand's Glam Bible Smokey Volume 1 set, which features a full collection of products that allow you to re-create the 'Keeping Up With the Kardashians' star's signature look.

The product is described as a long-lasting creamy formula which defines lashes instantly and the beauty mogul claims the mascara is the 'Holy Grail' of beauty needs and is the perfect Christmas gift for loved ones.

In a statement, she said: 'This is the Holy Grail for all my beauty needs, I wanted everyone to have access to the products and tools you need to recreate some of my favourite looks, and there's no better time to treat yourself or your loved ones than the Holidays!'

The Glam Bible also includes a new six-shade eyeshadow palette, false lashes, a black pencil liner, a brick red blush, a glittering gold highlighter, a peach lip liner, two lipsticks with peachy tones, a make-up sponge, a lip and eyeliner sharpener and finally, a powder puff.

This isn't the only exciting news from the brand as it was announced earlier this month that Kim would be collaborating for a new make-up collection with half-sister Kylie Jenner - who owns Kylie Cosmetics.

The pair previously joined forces for a cosmetics collection in 2017, and have now announced that 'part two' is just around the corner, as they'll release a new joint collection which will also drop on Black Friday.

====== 74 ========

BLAC CHYNA 'DOESN'T USE' 'WHITENICIOUS' SKIN WHITENING CREAM... DESPITE ENDORSING THE PRODUCT

She sparked controversy when she endorsed a skin-whitening cream on Thursday.

But by Friday, it was claimed that Blac Chyna has never even used the 'Whitenicious' Diamond Illuminating & Lightening cream she's been promoting, according to TMZ's sources.

The 30-year-old former reality TV star 'never applied it to her own skin' says the gossip site.

Blac to White: Blac Chyna is flogging new skin lightening cream called 'Whitenicious' in Nigeria... at $250 per bottle

The Rob & Chyna star allegedly saw the partnership as nothing more than 'a business opportunity'

The former stripper was 'offered good money to promote the cream', say TMZ's sources.

In an Instagram post, the reality star invited her 14.9million followers to the official launch Diamond Illuminating & Lightening cream, which she decided to host in Nigeria.

'Lagos Nigeria, join me at the first official launch of my face cream this Sunday November 25th at the Whitenicious store from 1-5PM,' she wrote. 'Everyone is invited.'

Hope you can make it: The reality star invited her 14.8million followers to the official launch Diamond Illuminating & Lightening cream, which she decided to host in Nigeria

The product comes in a 'fabulous jar handcrafted with Real Swarovski crystals.

Just 100g of the cream costs $250.

According to the 'science' section of the website: 'This protective illuminating product helps restore radiance and moisture while providing UV protection.'

Chyna's reps told TMZ the star has been 'using Whitenicious dark spot corrector for a few years to deal with her hyperpigmentation.'

They told the site she 'felt this was a good deal for her because a lot of women of color suffer from skin issues.'

Discoloration: Chyna's reps told TMZ the star has been 'using Whitenicious dark spot corrector for a few years to deal with her hyperpigmentation'

In an interview with Vogue India last year, Priyanka Chopra admitted she regretted starring in an advertisement for skin-lightening cream.

'I was very conscious of the color of my skin,' Chopra said. '[In India] you’re prettier if you’re fairer.

'I did a commercial for a skin-lightening cream. I was playing that girl with insecurities,” Chopra she recalled. 'And when I saw it, I was like, ‘Oh sh*t. What did I do?’

'I started talking about being proud of the way I looked. I actually like my skin tone.'

====== 75 ========

JOANNA GAINES SAYS SHE IS 'THANKFUL' FOR HER CHILDREN AS SHE SHARES ADORABLE IMAGE OF BABY CREW

Joanna Gaines counted her blessings on Thursday as she celebrated Thanksgiving with her family including the latest addition, baby Crew.

The Fixer Upper host, 40, posted a picture showing the five-month-old holding hands with 12-year-old sister Ella.

The siblings were relaxing on the sofa and bundled in a furry blanket.

Sweet moment: Joanna Gaines shared an adorable snap five-month-old Crew with big sister Ella as she gave thanks on Thursday

Snuggles: She also shared a snap of her son cuddling his bunny blanket

She captioned: 'Thankful' followed by a heart emoji.

The interior designer and her husband, Chip, 44, are also parents to Drake, 13, Duke, 12, and Emmie, eight.

Joanna's parents Jerry and Nan Stevens joined in the fun too, with Nan cooking up a storm for the celebration.

The fest had a Lebanese twist, in homage to the heritage of her late paternal grandfather.

While sharing pictures of the incredible spread, Joanna wrote: 'My Korean mama made this amazing Lebanese spread. Grandpa Stevens would be proud.'

Family time: Joanna's parents Jerry and Nan Stevens joined in the fun too

Feast! Joanna's mother, who is from Korea, cooked up a Lebanese inspired spread in honor of her late father-in-law

It has been a particularly momentous year for the Gaines family.

In June, the Kansas native announced the arrival of her fifth child in an Instagram post.

'Our baby boy, Crew Gaines, is here and we couldn't be more in love,' she began, in a photo collage.

'He made an unexpected (and speedy) entrance into the world two and a half weeks early - which is fitting given he was a sweet surprise from day one. Thank you for all your thoughts and prayers. We are so grateful.'

Guide: In her new book, Homebody, Joanna details how she makes a house a home

And much to their fans' delight, she and Chip are also planning on a return to TV. The couple confirmed they are in discussions with Discovery about creating a lifestyle-focused network.

'We're excited to share that we are currently in the early stages of talking with Discovery about a lifestyle-focused media network for Magnolia,' a Magnolia spokesperson recently told People.

'The details surrounding this opportunity remain a work in progress, but together, our hope is to build a different kind of platform for unique, inspiring and family-friendly content.'

In the meantime, Joanna is promoting her new book, Homebody: A Guide to Creating Spaces You Never Want to Leave, which was published earlier this month.

Joanna and husband Chip found international success as co-stars on their home design show, Fixer Upper.

The series, which premiered in 2013, came to a halt earlier this year.

====== 76 ========

NICO TORTORELLA AND PARTNER BETHANY MEYERS CELEBRATE FIRST THANKSGIVING SINCE POLYAMOROUS WEDDING

Nico Tortorella and longtime partner Bethany Meyers celebrated their first Thanksgiving since their wedding in March.

The queer, polyamorous pair - who dated on and off for 12 years - shared a naked picture hiding behind their turkey lunch.

Nico, 30 - who starred in Scream 4 - is seen showing off his tattoos and brandishing a spoon and fork alongside Bethany.

Nude! Nico Tortorella and longtime partner Bethany Meyers celebrated their first Thanksgiving since their wedding in March

She shared the image on Instagram, captioned: 'Our first thanksgiving as spouse and spouse. I love you endless @nicotortorella || That corn bowl was made by my grandmother and it held creamed corn at every family dinner - please don’t tell her I used it for green beans.'

'Full course meal. tank full. my cup runneth over,' the Younger star, who is sexually fluid, wrote on Instagram, alongside the same picture.

In a fully-clothed video shared on her Instagram Story, Meyers walked followers through all of the items on their table this year.

Wed: The polyamorous pair married earlier this year (pictured in May)

'It’s complete,' they shared. 'First Thanksgiving dinner that I made. First Thanksgiving dinner with my spouse.'

'I did it!' they wrote alongside the short clip.

They wed on March 9 at the Manhattan City Clerk’s office wearing white gender-bending ensembles, complete with crowns.

She identifies as gay, while he identifies as pansexual.

However, last year, Tortorella revealed they were not welcome at the Meyers' Thanksgiving table.

He told People: 'Honestly, it’s kind of a sensitive topic right this second. Because of all the attention that the relationship has gotten recently, we are coming up to the holiday season and because of certain things that were said, Bethany and I are not necessarily, completely welcome in her family celebrations this year.'

The actor - who’s also hosting a new MTV show, How Far Is Tattoo Far? - recently told PEOPLE that they definitely sees kids in their future.

'Probably in the next two to three years. And we’ll have two to three [kids]!' he revealed.

====== 77 ========

BEST BLACK FRIDAY TECH DEALS: FROM $80 OFF IPADS TO HALF-PRICE HDTVS

Black Friday is here, which means that there are huge dicounts to be found on everything from laptops and HDTVs to iPads and Playstations.

And to help you get the most out of the sales this year, we've compiled a list of the best discounts on electronics from across the web, including $80 off iPads at Walmart, half-price Echo Dots and $100 off Google Home Hub.

This guide will be updated regularly so check back for new deals and discounts, which we will include as they become available.

Apple iPad, $249 (save $80)

CLICK TO BUY AT WALMART

Google Home Mini, $25 (50% off)

CLICK TO BUY AT WALMART

Save $400 on the Google Pixel 3 XL

CLICK TO BUY AT VERIZON

Dyson V8 Absolute Cordless Vacuum Cleaner, $344.99 (save $155)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Voyager Electric Scooter, $149 (50% off)

CLICK TO BUY AT WALMART

All-new Echo Dot, $24 (52% off)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

PowerEdge T30, $299 (save $508)

CLICK TO BUY AT DELL

New OptiPlex 3060 Tower, $579 (save $419)

CLICK TO BUY AT DELL

Microsoft Xbox One X 1TB Console, $399 (save $100)

CLICK TO BUY AT WALMART

ASUS Chromebook Flip, $399.99 (save $99)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Acer Predator Helios 300 Gaming Laptop, $999.99 (save $300)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Samsung Galaxy Tab S3, $399.99 (save $150)

CLICK TO BUY AT DELL

SteelSeries Arctis 7 Lossless Gaming Headset, $99 (save $50)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Braun Electric Shaver, $129.94 (save $160)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Panasonic Electric Shaver, $99.99 (save $100)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

RCA Bluetooth Home Theater System, $99 (save $100)

CLICK TO BUY AT WALMART

Fire TV Stick 4K, $34.99 (30% off)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Fire TV Cube, $59.99 (50% off)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Sony 55" 4K Smart Ultra HDTV, $1,099.99 (save $400)

CLICK TO BUY AT DELL

Toshiba 50-inch Smart LED TV, $299.99 (save $100)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Apple Watch Series 3, $329 (save $80)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Fitbit Versa, $149 (save $50)

CLICK TO BUY AT WALMART

Samsung Galaxy Watch, $279 (save $70)

CLICK TO BUY AT WALMART

GoPro HERO7 Waterproof Digital Action Camera, $229 (save $70)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Logitech Pro Stream Webcam, $49.99 (50% off)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Bang & Olufsen Portable Bluetooth Speaker, $110 (save $59)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Google Home Hub, $99 (save $100)

CLICK TO BUY AT WALMART

Nest Hello Video Doorbell, $179 (save $150)

CLICK TO BUY AT WALMART

Linksys Velop Home Intelligent Mesh WiFi System, $199 (save $150)

CLICK TO BUY AT WALMART

Honor View10 GSM Unlocked Smartphone, $349 (save $150)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Samsung Galaxy S9+ 64GB Smartphone, $639.99 (save $200)

CLICK TO BUY AT WALMART

Nokia 6.1 32GB Unlocked Smartphone, $179.99 (save $90)

CLICK TO BUY AT WALMART

Samsung Galaxy Note 9 Factory Phone, $799.99 (save $200)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Farberware Air Fryer Oven, $59 (save $40)

CLICK TO BUY AT WALMART

All-New Fire HD 8 Tablet, $49.99 (save $30)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Kindle Paperwhite E-reader, $79.99 (save $40)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Blink Indoor Home Security Camera System, $66.99 (save $33)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

iRobot Roomba 690 Robot Vacuum, $249 (save $125)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Shark Wi-Fi Connected Robot Vacuum, $207.98 (save $142)

CLICK TO BUY AT WALMART

Oral-B Pro 6000 Electric Toothbrush, $69.94 (save $180)

CLICK TO BUY AT WALMART

SanDisk Ultra 400GB UHS-I Card with Adapter $79.99 (68% off)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

ecobee4 Smart Thermostat, $199 (save $50)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Arlo Security Camera System, $199 (save $100)

CLICK TO BUY AT WALMART

Lenovo Smart Display, $99 (save $100)

CLICK TO BUY AT WALMART

SharkNinja Kitchen Blender System, $85 (53% off)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Cuisinart Food Processor, $110.60 (save $88)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Instant Pot Pressure Cooker, $59 (save $40)

CLICK TO BUY AT WALMART

Breville Smart Oven, $215.96 (save $64)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

R2-D2 App-Enabled Droid, $39.99 (60% off)

CLICK TO BUY ON AMAZON

Google Chromecast Ultra, $49 (save $20)

CLICK TO BUY AT WALMART

For more deals like these visit techbargains.com.

DailyMail.com may earn commissions on sales from the links on this page.

====== 78 ========

SOUTHERN CHARM'S KATHRYN DENNIS SHUTS DOWN TROLLS CALLING HER PREGNANT AFTER HOLIDAY SNAP POST

Kathryn Dennis is not here for the haters.

The Southern Charm star clapped back at followers who suggested she may be pregnant after sharing a new snap on her Instagram account on Thursday.

The 27-year-old ginger beauty quickly fired back: 'No, I have just gained weight,' after a fan asked: 'Are you pregnant?'

No fool: Kathryn Dennis, 27, clapped back at followers who suggested she may be pregnant after sharing a new snap on her Instagram account on Thursday

She had shared a snap of herself standing on a set of stairs in a white shirt and a long black skirt with costar Austen Kroll with the caption: 'Happy Thanksgiving, y’all. Christmas cards coming soon.'

And Austen came to Kathryn's defense as he wrote on her Instagram: 'Some* of these people are absurd. Thankful for you! Oh, and my stomach is still recovering!'

Meanwhile, Kathryn is going through a brutal custody battle with ex Thomas Ravenel who is standing trial for the alleged assault of his children's nanny.

And Thomas recently responded to Kathryn's filing seeking to modify their shared custody agreement.

New snap: The 27-year-old ginger beauty quickly fired back: 'No, I have just gained weight,' after a fan asked: 'Are you pregnant?'

Comparing: And Austen Kroll came to his Southern Charm co-star's defense as he wrote on her Instagram: 'Some* of these people are absurd. Thankful for you! Oh, and my stomach is still recovering!' (left pictured in 2017)

He filed a counterclaim, People reported, in which he accused Kathryn of acting 'for the purpose of garnering media attention, creating material for her storyline on Southern Charm and ensuring her marketability as a 'reality TV star.''

The former couple share two young children - daughter Kensie, four, and son Saint, two.

Kathryn spent two years proving she was drug free in order to regain joint custody of her children.

She filed for primary custody of the kids following Ravenel's arrest for assault claiming he had displayed 'periods of impulsive and uncontrollable bouts of anger' as well as 'extreme narcissism and anger management problems.'

Counter claim: Thomas accused Kathryn of acting 'for the purpose of .... creating material for her storyline on Southern Charm and ensuring her marketability as a 'reality TV star''

She also alleged he mixed alcohol and prescription drugs and was 'impaired' while in charge of the children.

Thomas, according to People, denies all her accusations and alleges in response in his court documents that Kathryn is acting 'in bad faith' and to progress 'her storyline as the 'rehabilitated mother who regains possession of her minor children.''

Thomas was arrested in September after his former nanny Dawn Ledwell claimed she was in his Charleston, South Carolina home in January 2015 when he allegedly took off her pants and fondled her.

====== 79 ========

CHRISSY TEIGEN SHARES ADORABLE PICTURE OF HER MOTHER PLAYING AND CUDDLING WITH BABY MILES

She has been living with daughter Chrissy Teigen, son-in-law John Legend, and her two grandchildren in the couple's $14million Los Angeles mansion.

And on Friday Chrissy shared an adorable video on her Instagram Story showing her mother, Vilailuck Teigen, playing and snuggling up to baby Miles.

Grandma Teigen has been a huge presence on her daughter's social media, as well as her own; oftentimes she's seen smiling in the background of a photo or video, helping out with the needs of Miles and his two-year old sister Luna.

Family ties: Chrissy Teigen's mother, Vilailuck Teigen, got cute with grandson Miles as the two could be seen snuggling up face-to-face in an Instagram Story video

In the video, Grandma can be seen leaning back on a couch, dressed in a brown sweater, and holding her six-month old grandson in front of her face oh so lovingly.

'Oh no, no, no, no, no,' she utters over and over, with her head shaking back and forth, in a playful manner as Miles tries to touch her cheeks.

With adoring love behind their big beaming smiles, the two are the picture of family bliss when Miles finally touches her face and then pulls back to admire his Grandmother.

Quality time: Miles kept trying to touch her face as she playfully uttered 'Oh no, no, no, no'

Lovely: Vilailuck Teigen has been living at Chrissy and John's mansion, helping care for the kids

'So my mom lives with us,' Teigen told Us Weekly back in January, when explaining her family living arrangements.

Chrissy's dad Ron Teigen lives just minutes away and is a regular guest at their Beverly Hills mansion.

'He comes by every day and they’re married,' Chrissy added. 'It just works for them. It’s a good family life. We’re all very close, very tight–knit.'

The Teigen ladies are clearly very close and enjoy hanging out with the kids by the looks of the many social media posts over the last couple of years.

Bonded: The Teigen ladies -- Grandma Vilailuck, two-year old Luna and Chrissy -- are often photographed together in social media posts

====== 80 ========

MADISON BEER CHANNELS HER INNER BOND GIRL AS SHE EMERGES FROM THE OCEAN IN A SKIMPY BIKINI

She's been kicking back on the beach in Miami after releasing a new music video with Offset.

And Madison Beer looked to be auditioning for a role as a Bond girl as she emerged from the waves in a bikini on Friday.

The 19-year-old singer was spotted soaking up some rays in a skimpy two-piece for a third day in a row.

Dip: Madison Beer looked to be auditioning for a role as a Bond girl as she emerged from the waves in a bikini on Friday

She captured the mood of Ursula Andress in Dr. No, as she showcased her figure in a low cut lavender swimwear.

The brunette beauty flaunting her killer curves as she cooled off in the Atlantic Ocean.

A pair of small thong bikini bottoms displayed the star's perky backside.

Beach vibes: The 19-year-old singer was spotted soaking up some rays in a skimpy two-piece for a third day in a row

Iconic image: She captured the mood of Ursula Andress in Dr. No

The YouTube success added hoop earrings, a nameplate necklace and a two Cartier Love bangle bracelets as well as a sports watch.

She was seen getting out of the water as she slicked her drenched hair back.

It's the third day in a row she's been spotted in her bikini on the beach.

Accessory: The YouTube success added hoop earrings, a nameplate necklace and a two Cartier Love bangle bracelets as well as a sports watch

Stepping out: It's the third day in a row she's been spotted in her bikini on the beach

Playful: She looked to be having fun on the sand

Rearly cute: A pair of small thong bikini bottoms displayed the star's perky bum

Cheeky: The star showcased her curves in the skimpy two-piece

Taking the plunge: The brunette beauty flaunting her killer curves as she cooled off in the Atlantic Ocean

Soaking: She was seen getting out of the water as she slicked her drenched hair back

Swim: She seemed oblivious to onlookers as she doused herself with water

Looking good: The pretty singer made her way back up the beach

Chill: She soaked up the sunshine on her lounger

The young star, who was once a protege of Justin Bieber, has a lot to be thankful for this year as she just debuted a brand new music video with Cardi B's husband Offset.

Beer began posting videos on YouTube of her singing covers of popular songs in early 2012 which got Bieber to notice her.

Her new single, Hurts Like Hell, dropped on November 9 and on Wednesday, the singer released the official music video for her revenge anthem.

She is seen nude in several frames and plays a vengeful witch out to wreak havoc.

The video kicks off with Madison, who dons heavy black eyeliner, naked in a bathtub.

She lights candles with a wave of her hand as she turns her attention to an old TV screen, where a man and a woman are embroiled in a fight.

The man hits the woman and Beer grows angry, touching her cheek as if she was the one struck.

Witching hour: On Wednesday, the singer released the official music video for her revenge anthem. Beer, who is seen nude in several frames, plays a vengeful witch out to wreak havoc. The video kicks off with Madison naked in a bathtub with several lit white candles all around her tub

'My baby said he loved me. My baby said he need me,' she can be heard singing. 'But then my baby went bad. I guess he had a relapse. Had to sneak, cheat and bring me down.'

The next scene shows the abusive man strapped to a bed as Madison looms in the distance.

Wearing a white wedding veil, the New York native climbs on top of the man—wielding a knife. She suddenly disappears without a trace and the man is free from the wrist restraints.

'I hope it hurts like hell. You shoulda never let me go,' she sings. 'I know I’m messing up your mind. The devil got you good this time.'

The music video ends with Beer being captured by witch hunters and condemned to hell.

The group of torch and pitchfork-wielding commoners, led by the woman-beating man, attempt to burn her at the stake but she magically switches places with her enemy.

'Drop tears from my eyes. I can’t cry, I’m on fire,' Offset raps. 'Cheatin’ night N night. No more flights. You got caught in the hype. Ain’t take my advice. Got the steak, the fork, and the whole knife.'

As the man burns alive, Beer turns to camera, winks and walks away.

====== 81 ========

CHRIS PRATT HOLDS HANDS WITH KATHERINE SCHWARZENEGGER BEFORE WATCHING HER BROTHERS PLAY FOOTBALL

They went public back in June.

And Chris Pratt already looks like part of the family.

The 39-year-old action man was spotted hand-in-hand with girlfriend Katherine Schwarzenegger in Los Angeles on Wednesday.

Loved up: Chris Pratt n was spotted hand-in-hand with girlfriend Katherine Schwarzenegger in Los Angeles on Wednesday

Chris and his 28-year-old ladylove were on-hand to support her brothers Chris and Patrick as they played a football game with brothers.

Katherine's famous mother Maria Shriver was also in attendance.

Shortly after watching the contentious game, it was Katherine and the 63-year-old journalist's time to get active as they enjoyed a hike together.

Pretty: The daughter of Arnold Schwarzenegger kept casual in a zip-up sweater over black leggings along with matching trainers

Hunk: Chris looked buff in a blue shirt which read "America land of the free' with tiny black Alo shorts and grey trainers

Big fans: The 39-year-old action man and 28-year-old beauty were joined by her famous mother Maria Shriver

Gridiron: They supported her brothers Chris and Patrick as they played a football game with brothers

The daughter of Arnold Schwarzenegger kept casual in a zip-up sweater over black leggings along with matching trainers.

She tucked her brunette tresses into a dad hat as she let her natural looks show by going make-up free.

Chris looked buff in a blue shirt which read "America land of the free' with tiny black Alo shorts and grey trainers.

Natural: She tucked her brunette tresses into a dad hat as she let her natural looks show by going make-up free

Fun times: Chris already seems to be very comfortable with family as he played with one of the kids on the sidelines

Chill mode: Chris didn't play in the game but seemingly had a great time watching from the sidelines

He also sported a trucker cap as he sported a bit of scruff.

Chris already seems to be very comfortable with family as he played with one of the kids on the sidelines.

Things certainly seem to be getting serious between the two as there have been recent reports that Chris is getting ready to take the next step in their relationship.

According to an UsWeekly, report earlier this week Chris will be popping the question 'very soon.'

His biggest cheerleader: Maria smiled at her son Patrick as he stretched before the game

Strong bond: Chris chatted up with his famous mom before the big game

Brotherly bonds: Chris and Patrick certainly seemed to have a blast together

Sibling rivalry: Chris did a fantastic job and not letting his brother Patrick through

Game on: Patrick had his hair in an updo

It was also alleged the Jurassic World star has been turning down work to spend more time with the daughter of movie icon Arnold Schwarzenegger.

He seems to be getting along great with the 71-year-old action man as they were spotted together on a double date with his longtime girlfriend Heather Milligan, 44, in Santa Monica nearly two weeks ago.

They went public with their romance earlier this year while enjoying a Father's day date in Los Angeles.

Strongman: Chris showcased his strongman genes as he blocked out an opposing player

Going for the gold: Patrick looked very focused

Chill: He had a laugh with a friend between plays

They were apparently set up by Katherine's mother Maria Shriver, according to People's source.

The hunky action star and his now ex wife Anna Faris announced their split in early August 2017; they were married for eight years and share six-year-old son Jack.

Chris filed for divorce on December 1, nearly four months after they announced their legal separation.

Three days later Anna filed her response - which looked identical to Chris'; they both cited irreconcilable differences and requested joint legal and physical custody of their son, according to E! News.

Sack: Patrick attempted to rush the quarterback

Good game: Chris slapped hands with the opposing players

Pals: They all posed for a team photo taken by Maria

The couple finalised their divorce last week, agreeing to live no more than five miles away from each for the next five years, according to TMZ.

The outlet also reported that the parents must provide the other person with at least 30 days notice if they are travelling out of the country with Jack.

Anna, 41, is in a relationship with cinematographer Michael Barrett; they were first spotted together in October 2017 and have been together since.

====== 82 ========

PARIS HILTON OPENS UP ABOUT HER FRIENEMY KIM KARDASHIAN AND CALLS HER 'AN AMAZING BUSINESSWOMAN'

They've had a famously tumultuous friendship, but according to Paris Hilton, everything is currently fine between herself and Kim Kardashian.

Speaking to Today on Saturday, the 37-year-old Hilton Hotels heiress claimed to have spoken to Kim, 38, just 'a couple of weeks ago'.

'Everything's great. We've known each other since we were little girls. I love her and I am so proud of her, she's such an amazing businesswoman,' she told the program.

'I spoke to her just a couple of weeks ago': Paris Hilton (pictured) opened up about her tumultuous relationship with 'frenemy' Kim Kardashian on Saturday

But it took Paris a little time to warm up to being asked about her highly successful friend.

The former Simple Life star couldn't help but take a subtle swipe at Kim when first asked about her and her lucrative career, with Paris instead calling herself a 'pioneer' and an 'inspiration'.

'I feel so proud. I feel like a pioneer, and I've really paved the way for so many people, and [I'm] an inspiration to men and women all around the world,' she said.

Speaking to Today on Saturday, the 37-year-old Hilton Hotels heiress claimed to have spoken to Kim, 38, just 'a couple of weeks ago'. 'Everything's great. We've known each other since we were little girls. I love her and I am so proud of her, she's such an amazing businesswoman,' she told the program

'It feels amazing to have created something that people are really following.'

Kim famously started her career as Paris' unofficial assistant in the early 2000s, before eventually eclipsing the fame of her on-off friend.

But Kim has denied she was ever an assistant to the star, despite carrying out assistant-related tasks.

The former Simple Life star couldn't help but take a subtle swipe at Kim when first asked about her and her lucrative career, with Paris instead calling herself a 'pioneer' and an 'inspiration'

'I would work with Paris, and I would love to organise and clean out their closets and... shop for her. That was my job,' Kim told Watch What Happens Live With Andy Cohen in May 2017.

'But people will say "assistant". They always have it wrong.'

The pair once enjoyed a close friendship, but it was all-out war when Paris publicly declared she wouldn't want a bottom like Kim's famous derrière during an interview in 2008.

Close pals! 'Everything's great. We've known each other since we were little girls. I love her and I am so proud of her, she's such an amazing businesswoman,' Paris told the TV program

Helping hand: Kim famously started her career as Paris' unofficial assistant in the early 2000s, before eventually eclipsing the fame of her on-off friend

'I would not want [Kim's butt] - it's gross!' she told a US radio show as reported by Gawker at the time.

'It reminds me of cottage cheese inside a big trash bag.'

After years of taking subtle digs at each other, the pair apparently resolved their differences at the beginning of the year, with Kim sending Paris her latest fragrance.

'Love the amazing @KKWFragrance PR box! Thanks @KimKardashian!!' Paris tweeted in February.

====== 83 ========

KATE HUDSON IS 'THANKFUL FOR LOVE' AS SHE SHARES SWEET PHOTO OF SON RYDER CUDDLING DAUGHTER RANI

She's a dotting mom of three.

And on Friday, Kate Hudson shared a sweet photo of son Ryder, 14, cuddling her infant daughter Rani, one month.

'Post Turkey Day my son comes into our bedroom, takes his sister in his arms and spent some solid early morning time loving her,' Hudson, 39, captioned the photo. 'I watched thinking...I'm Thankful for love.'

Sibling love: On Friday, Kate Hudson shared a sweet photo of son Ryder, 14, cuddling her infant daughter Rani, one month

Hudson and boyfriend Danny Fujikawa welcomed Rani into the world on October 2.

The couple named their daughter after Danny's father, Ron Fujikawa.

'Ron was the most special man who we all miss dearly,' she wrote on Instagram. 'To name her after him is an honor.'

'Post Turkey Day my son comes into our bedroom, takes his sister in his arms and spent some solid early morning time loving her,' Hudson, 39, captioned the photo. 'I watched thinking...I'm Thankful for love'

During a recent chat with Access, Kate gushed about her Danny mini-me.

'When you love your partner so much and you see your child look just like your partner, your heart melts,' she said with a smile.

Hudson and Fujikawa have been dating since 2017.

Growing family: Kate shares her daughter with boyfriend Danny Fujikawa, whom she's been dating since 2017

According to PEOPLE, Kate hasn't stopped smiling since Rani was born.

'She's always wanted a daughter so this is really a dream come true,' a source told the magazine. 'And her big brothers are so excited — they'll be so protective and sweet to her always.'

The Bride Wars star shares son Bingham, seven, with ex-fiancé Matthew Bellamy of Muse and she's raising Ryder with the help of ex-husband Chris Robinson.

====== 84 ========

SARA SAMPAIO SOAKS UP THE SUN IN A RED BIKINI WHILE ON VACATION IN MEXICO WITH OLIVER RIPLEY

She's enjoying a well deserved vacation in Tulum, Mexico with boyfriend Oliver Ripley.

And on Friday, Sara Sampaio, who posed poolside, showed off her sculpted body in a skimpy red bikini on Instagram.

'Love me some sun,' the 27-year-old model captioned the photo.

