Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 287 ========

FLYBE: VIRGIN ATLANTIC REVEALED AS POSSIBLE BUYER FOR CASH-STRAPPED AIRLINE

Virgin Atlantic has been revealed as a potential buyer for cash-strapped Flybe.

The airline founded by Sir Richard Branson has issued a statement saying: “Virgin Atlantic notes the recent media speculation related to Flybe. Virgin Atlantic has a trading and codeshare relationship and confirms that it is reviewing its options in respect of Flybe, which range from enhanced commercial arrangements to a possible offer for Flybe.

“Virgin Atlantic emphasises that there can be no certainty that an offer will be made nor as to the terms of any offer.”

Last week Flybe announced it was up for sale. The financially troubled British regional airline is expected to lose tens of millions of pounds over the winter, at an average rate calculated by The Independent of £7,000 per hour.

The chief executive, Christine Ourmières-Widener, blamed “a recent softening in growth in the short-haul market” as well as higher fuel and currency costs for the slump.

Both easyJet and Ryanair confirmed that they were not interested in buying Flybe. But now, according to a Sky News report, Virgin Atlantic has opened discussions about a takeover.

Virgin Atlantic was founded in 1984 by Sir Richard Branson, who retains a minority stake in the carrier; Delta Airlines and Air France-KLM own the bulk of shares.

The long-haul airline mainly serves the US, the Caribbean and Asia. It ran a domestic operation called Little Red from 2013 to 2015, connecting Heathrow with Manchester, Edinburgh and Aberdeen, which folded after heavy losses.

Flybe began as Jersey European in 1979, and continues to serve as the main airline between the Channel Islands and Britain.

The regional airline runs a core of mainly north-south routes from Aberdeen, Edinburgh, Glasgow and Belfast City to Manchester, East Midlands, Birmingham, Bristol, Southampton and Exeter. Flybe is also a leading operator at Cardiff, Newquay and Norwich.

It already feeds Virgin Atlantic flights at Gatwick, Heathrow and Manchester, and delivers passengers to Air France-KLM on a range of routes to Paris and Amsterdam.

Immediate synergies with Virgin Atlantic are limited. Flybe operates small Bombardier and Embraer aircraft, while Virgin has only wide-bodied Airbus and Boeing jets.

But the Flybe network could be tuned to provide maximum connectivity with Virgin services, particularly at Manchester – which, unlike Heathrow and Gatwick, has plenty of scope for expansion.

The other serious bidder for Flybe is believed to be the transport firm Stobart Group, which abandoned a previous bid earlier this year.

The market capitalisation of Flybe has dropped to around £20m, and any bid is unlikely to be significantly higher; the buyer will also need to inject tens of millions of pounds to provide liquidity.

One other possible suitor is IAG, the holding company of British Airways, Aer Lingus and Iberia.

Before the Virgin Atlantic bid was revealed, Flybe announced that it has won the right for a four-flight-a-day link between Heathrow and Newquay, using “remedy slots” surrendered by British Airways.

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 288 ========

RAIL CHAOS: TRAIN FIRMS NEED TO MAKE PROPER PAYOUTS WHEN THINGS GO WRONG

On Monday morning I was appalled by two things: the obliteration of the first rush hour of the week at London Waterloo by overrunning Network Rail engineering work, and the shocking abuse that South Western Railway’s social media staff received from online bullies. The frequently maligned train operator was, on this occasion, blameless. Yet frustrated travellers cursed its Twitter team with threats and vile language.

That evening, by the time Southern Rail’s overpacked 5.37pm from London Bridge to Uckfield had given up the ghost and expired just three miles and 40 minutes after departure, I found myself joining in the electronic irritation. Not, I hasten to add, by unleashing expletives on customer service staff, but by texting the friend I was hoping to meet for a drink: “Does Southern really loathe its passengers?”

Travellers who rely on the train operator serving south London, Surrey and Sussex have had a horrible year. So too have commuters using Northern in northwest England, where unworkable timetables were imposed in May and every Saturday is a strike day – the RMT union and the government are fighting a proxy war about driver-only operation on Northern’s patch.

Yet tens of thousands of railway staff work their socks off every day to try to keep the creaking show on the wobbly railroad. And still things go badly wrong.

Train failure is not a once-in-a-blue-moon event. I know that because the one I hoped to catch back from Sussex to London that evening ran out of steam at Eastbourne and had to be replaced.

Eastbourne, of course, is where Karl Marx used to holiday.

Some rail passengers say that, in accordance with the philosopher’s principles of social ownership of the means of production, the railways should be nationalised. But most travellers couldn’t care who runs the trains. They just want to be able to get to work/school/hospital/friends/family on schedule.

As Marx’s devotee Lenin asked (in slightly different context): what is to be done?

That evening I had plenty of time to contemplate the issue on various godforsaken trains and platforms. The solution: take a leaf out of the rulebook for compensating airline passengers.

Handing out £350 to someone whose £50 flight to Malaga is three hours late – as European rules dictate – is absurdly excessive. But it focuses the airlines’ minds on reducing delays and improving resilience. We need to align payouts to passengers with train pain.

I reckon there were about 1,000 passengers on the failed train, all of whom had to jostle across the footbridge at New Cross Gate and try to board an already overstuffed following service, missing multiple connections in the process.

I have already received my “Delay Repay” payment. Britain might have a sometimes-rubbish railway, but it is world class in responding to compensation claims. Only in terms of time, though. Not money.

On a £14 return ticket, I received just £1.80 in compensation. In the olden days when there was a buffet trolley on Southern trains, that would not even buy a cup of tea. If everyone aboard the doomed train claimed the same (which is doubtful), the operator’s penalty for deploying a train that was unfit for purpose was £1,800: a drop in the rail franchising ocean.

Suppose compensation were sharply increased, with a fixed £10 payout for a 30-minute delay when the train operator is at fault, £20 for an hour, etc. Many more travellers would claim. And if the price of failing to maintain properly the rolling stock on the 5.37pm were £10,000 or £20,000, train firms will share our pain and up their game.

The tricky element in this cunning plan: the many delays caused by Network Rail. If every one of the 150,000 or so commuters to London Waterloo whose Monday was wrecked by a defective rail near Surbiton was given just £20, that would total £6m. But rather than a transfer of wealth from shareholders to travellers, it would be the long-suffering taxpayer forced to shovel yet more cash into the bottomless pit of railway funding.

It will take at least another day of disruption to figure out a fair prescription for infrastructure delay, though if you already have the answer, let me know. Meanwhile, let’s start with proper payouts when train operators foul up.

Things will always go wrong on the railways, and I am no fan of “compensation culture”. But in this context it just might help.

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 289 ========

BLACK FRIDAY: HOW TO BOOK CHEAP FLIGHTS EVEN AFTER THE SALES ARE OVER

As the world gears up for the madness that is Black Friday, you may well be anticipating great-value holiday deals and cheaper than cheap flights on the horizon.

However, the promise of the Black Friday deal is often better than the reality – according to a year-long investigation by Which?, 87 per cent of products were the same price or cheaper at other times of the year, while 46 per cent of products were cheaper than their Black Friday price on at least one day in the six months following it.

When it comes to travel, it can be hard to spot whether or not something is a genuinely good offer. But there are tricks you can use year-round to bag a bargain on flights.

Here are five tips from TravelSupermarket to ensure you get the best price whenever you book your next trip.

Master the art of codesharing

Codesharing is when two airlines sell tickets for the same flight, but actually only one carrier flies that particular route.

This means there are often two prices for the same flight – and most of the time one is cheaper than the other. This is why it’s important to double check the prices of other providers before committing to purchase a flight. Comparison websites can help with comparing options.

Consider alternative airports

This may seem like a logistical nightmare, but if you are able to be flexible there can be significant savings that come with departing from an alternative destination.

This works for both long and short-haul flights. For example, if you live in the north-west of England, why not price up flights departing from Manchester, Liverpool and even Leeds, Birmingham or the East Midlands to see if an hour or two’s drive could save a worthwhile amount of money? Just factor in the cost of any additional travel and parking when budgeting.

Layovers can halve costs

Layovers may not be part of your plan and you may think them a waste of time, but they can help you save hundreds on flights – and you may even get to experience a new city.

This is especially handy when looking to fly long-haul – sometimes a journey needs breaking up anyway. An 18-hour flight can get pretty gruelling, so a layover gives time to regroup and get in some extra sightseeing.

For example, on a flight to Los Angeles from London (departing 9 July, returning 23 July 2019) with a change in Edmonton on the way out and Vancouver on the way back will save you £775* compared to direct options.

*prices correct as of 22 November 2018.

Travel off-peak

Flight prices are often dictated by supply and demand – naturally there are peaks when people need or want to travel and an accompanying influx in volume: for example, school and bank holidays.

If the popularity of a flight increases, it means there is a demand for it, so prices increase too.

Individual destinations will also have their peak weeks and months. If you are able to travel outside of these times you’ll secure a significantly better deal – and also likely benefit from the resort or city you’re visiting being less crowded.

Rethink the extras

Extras are often added towards the end of the process when booking a flight, so it’s key to consider in advance which elements are essential to you and any associated costs. For example, are there charges to reserve seats? Is your meal included in the flight price? Also, be sure to check your baggage allowance and any charges for taking additional weight.

These small added extras can often bump the price up of your flight, so you need to be savvy and one step ahead. Charges can also increase if added last minute at the airport, so be sure to book in advance.

If you physically can’t go without these added extras, you should always factor them into your budget and compare your options to ensure you’re getting the most for your money.

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 290 ========

HOW TO GET A FREE HOTEL UPGRADE

Staying in a fancy hotel suite for the price of a cheaper hotel room isn’t a travel legend. With a few clever tactics, it’s possible to clinch an upgrade to a posh room for free – although Dele Alli’s recent outburst at the May Fair Hotel in London, when he was filmed allegedly demanding to stay in the hotel’s £3,000 a night penthouse, probably isn’t the way to go.

The first piece of advice is to just ask for one (minus Alli's angry ranting) – the worst the hotel can say is no.

If that doesn’t work, here are some top tips to persuade a hotel to give you a free upgrade.

Book direct with the hotel

When guests book through a platform such as Booking.com, the platform will charge a small amount of commission – meaning the hotel loses a slice of the money you paid. Which is why they like customers that book direct. By booking directly – either online or by phone – you’ll endear yourself to hoteliers, which could make them look more favourably on you when deciding whether to upgrade.

Rory Boland, editor of Which? Travel, tells me: “If you find the price for the hotel room cheaper on an aggregator rather than booking direct (as is usually the case), phone the hotel and quote them the price. They’ll sometimes match, but more likely offer you an upgrade/free bottle of champagne etc. Works 9/10.”

Even if the upgrade is out of reach, booking direct can also proffer a whole host of benefits, including early check in, free breakfast or the dreaded “welcome drink”.

It’s about timing

Choose your timing carefully. You might not want to travel to the Maldives in monsoon season (summer), Southeast Asia during typhoon season (late summer/autumn) or the Mediterranean in the cooler winter months, but going in low season means hotels aren’t full – therefore there’s a higher chance of an upgrade. Low season also means cheaper prices.

Even if you’re not in low season, there are some tricks to be aware of. Business hotels are likely to be emptier at the weekend, while the opposite is true of a trendy city centre base – visitors will have gone home by Sunday night. All this means is that the hotel is likely to be less full, and therefore more likely to be in a position to offer an upgrade.

In terms of the actual stay, if you’re booked in for just one or two nights, the likelihood of getting an upgrade is higher – purely because the hotel won’t have to switch you halfway through your stay for a cheaper room.

Join the hotel’s loyalty scheme

If an airline wants to upgrade a passenger on a flight, they’ll start by looking at their most frequent fliers – typically those that belong to the airline’s loyalty scheme. It’s the same for hotels: they like guests that have either stayed frequently or are a paid-up member of their loyalty scheme. If you’re staying in a hotel that’s part of an international chain (Marriott, IHG, Hilton, Hyatt) join the scheme before you stay and add your membership number to your booking. Even if you cancel your membership immediately, it will still count in your favour.

Check in as late as possible

Expensive suites are more likely to have been booked further in advance, so hotels know when they will be occupied. By checking in perhaps in late evening, when guests will have typically checked in already, the hotel will know which pricier rooms are still available for upgrade.

Say it’s a special occasion

Whether that’s a babymoon, honeymoon, new job, anniversary… telling the hotel staff you have chosen their property to celebrate a very special occasion is flattering, and they might look more favourably upon you for an upgrade. There’s also the possibility of added extras like wine or chocolates. Just don’t say anything that can be easily fact-checked by hotel staff – like your birthday.

Lastly, be polite

“Politeness pays off,” says Emma Grimster at TravelSupermarket. “It’s very unlikely your hotel will give you an upgrade if you’re being in any way unpleasant. Try to build a relationship with the hotel staff, provide constructive feedback on their services and give credit where credit is due.”

Unfortunately, Grimster adds that “there’s no exact science for bagging a hotel upgrade”.

How much hand baggage can you take on a Ryanair flight? Where should you be travelling in 2019? Can you claim compensation for a delayed flight?

Travel expert Simon Calder will be answering all your questions at our upcoming event, Ask Simon Calder.

Register your place today by logging into Independent Minds

====== 291 ========

REYKJAVIK HOTELS: 10 OF THE BEST PLACES TO STAY

In the last decade, visitor numbers to Iceland have grown by 500 per cent as appearances on Game of Thrones have spread news of the wonders of this isolated island nation, which is home to otherworldly landscapes, steaming hot springs and waterfalls around every turn. That boom in visitors has also led to a boom in hotels, with plenty of comfortable, stylish options at a variety of price points.

Here are the top hotels in Reykjavik.

Best for a social scene: Kex Hostel

Neighbourhood: Mioborg

Kex is branded as a hostel, but this renovated biscuit factory offers a range of stylish accommodation options, including private doubles with en-suite bathrooms and ocean views. Ample communal space – a guest kitchen, gym, barber shop and heated outdoor patio that fills up when the weather’s nice – creates a buzzy atmosphere that encourages mingling; and the gastropub Saemundur attracts as many travellers as it does working locals who come for wifi, coffee and craft beer.

Doubles from KR24,600 (£151)

kexhostel.is

Best for luxury: Hotel Borg

Neighbourhood: Mioborg

Located in the heart of downtown, the 99-room art deco Hotel Borg has set the standard for Reykjavik luxury hotels since it opened in 1930. It’s since been renovated, though many original fixtures, vintage accents and black and white photos of Reykjavik remain. Rooms feature lacquered tables, heated bathroom floors, high ceilings and stylish Bang & Olufsen TVs. There’s an onsite Jamie’s Italian and a spa with a steam bath, sauna and hot tub.

Doubles from KR31,290 (£197)

keahotels.is/en/hotels/hotel-borg

Best for a clean conscience: Eyja Guldsmeden Hotel

Neighbourhood: Hlemmur

Set a few steps off Laugavegur, the city’s main shopping street, is the 65-room Eyja. It's part of Guldsmeden Hotels, a Danish group with a focus on sustainability. It’s also the only Icelandic hotel to be Green Globe certified. Rooms feel earthy and organic, with rough-hewn-wood four-poster beds, sheepskin throws and natural fabrics like cotton, wool and leather throughout. Eyja uses at least 90 per cent organic produce in the food it serves and employs a 360-degree sustainability management system with an emphasis on environmental responsibility.

Doubles from KR27,300 (£172)

hoteleyja.is

Best for dining: Icelandair Hotel Reykjavik Marina

Neighbourhood: Harbour

The nautical-themed Icelandair Hotel Reykjavik Marina is set on the edge of the downtown harbourfront, and is home to the chic bar and restaurant Slippbarinn, a perennial favourite among locals. Serving breakfast, brunch and an all-day menu of modern Icelandic fare, such as langoustine flatbread and soup with the day’s catch, it’s a popular spot any time; but especially during happy hour when its creative cocktails, like the bourbon-based Whiskey Sour Par Excellence, are half price.

Doubles from KR18,500 (£117)

icelandairhotels.com/en/hotels/marina/about-reykjavik-marina

Best for Icelandic culture: Canopy by Hilton Reykjavik City Centre

Neighbourhood: Mioborg

Composed of six interconnected houses that were part of a furniture factory from 1937-1963, the Canopy by Hilton Reykjavik City Centre has been fully renovated, but still nods to its past – and Iceland’s unique natural setting. Rooms are decked out in muted versions of the country’s natural colours: slate grey reminiscent of volcanic rock, pale blue the colour of the sea and pastel green like the moss-covered countryside. Local artwork lines the walls, the snack shop sells Icelandic artisanal chocolate and the library is stocked with books from Icelandic authors.

Doubles from KR25,175 (£159)

canopy3.hilton.com​

Best for a view: Hlemmur Square

Neighbourhood: Hlemmur

Most of Iceland’s buildings are only a few storeys tall, which means you don’t have to climb high for a great view. The King Terrace and Deluxe King Terrace rooms at Hlemmur Square are only on the fifth floor but offer spectacular views of the city, bay and mountains from private balconies and expansive windows. All rooms have king-sized beds with Lissadell linens, flat-screen TVs and fully stocked minibars. There are upscale dorm-style rooms on the third and fourth floors and a craft beer and cocktail bar in the lobby.

Doubles from KR23,000 (£145)

hlemmursquare.com/hotel

Best for business: Radisson Blu 1919 Hotel

Neighbourhood: Mioborg

The 88-room Radisson Blu 1919 Hotel is set in a century-old building in the heart of downtown, within easy walking distance to visitor attractions like the Harpa concert hall and Reykjavik Art Museum, as well as the city hall, parliament and the prime minister’s office. Rooms offer all the modern trappings, and there’s a fitness centre, three meeting rooms and the 1919 Restaurant, which serves breakfast, lunch, and dinner.

Doubles from KR21,500 (£135)

radissonblu.com/en/1919hotel-reykjavik

Best for history: Sand Hotel

Neighbourhood: Mioborg

The 67-room art deco-style Sand Hotel is built around three historic buildings on Laugavegur Street. Sandholt Bakery and Gudsteinn Eyjolfsson men’s clothing shop, which have been serving Reykjavik for more than a century, are on the ground floor; the former provides the hotel’s continental breakfast, while the latter offers in-room shopping with delivery to the hotel. Out front, a small plaque commemorates the most important historical aspect: behind the hotel sits the small house where Nobel Prize-winning author Halldor Laxness was born in 1902.

Doubles from KR25,500 (£160)

sandhotel.is

Best for a home away from home: Reykjavik Marina Residence

Neighbourhood: Harbour

Located next to the Icelandair Hotel Reykjavik Marina hotel, the Residence offers a homely environment with all the conveniences of a hotel. Set in a 20th century townhouse, it includes one two-storey suite and six one-room Residence Suites, each with balcony, minibar, Sóley Organics Icelandic toiletries and Lin Design linens. Breakfast is included and all suites share access to the Residence Lounge where complimentary refreshments are offered every evening.

Doubles from KR62,050 (£391)

reykjavikmarinaresidence.is

Best for budget travellers: Loft

Neighbourhood: Mioborg

Another genre-crosser, Loft offers both hostel and hotel accommodations. The Double Deluxe Rooms are basic but cosy, with large windows overlooking Laugavegur, soft beds and small-but-functional tiled bathrooms. Guests also have access to the top-floor balcony cafe for breakfast and light bites, and a self-catering kitchen to save even more on the high cost of dining in Reykjavik.

Doubles from KR17,750 (£111)

lofthostel.is

We may earn some commission if you click on a link in this article and buy a product or service, but we never allow this to influence our coverage.

====== 292 ========

VIENNA HOTELS: 10 OF THE BEST PLACES TO STAY

You can lose days in Vienna sampling decadent cakes, listening to Mozart or getting dazzled by Klimt’s golden paintings. Beyond the cliches of the city though, delve deeper and you’ll find it oozes with stories, from its cosy coffee houses and hidden courtyards to quirky museums.

Best for classic cakes: Hotel Sacher

Neighbourhood: 1st District

Even if you haven’t been to Vienna, you might have heard of Sachertorte. This rich dark chocolate and apricot cake is made from a secret recipe, and although imitations exist, you can try the real-deal at the Hotel Sacher. This hotel is the ultimate old-world experience, with its dark wood-panelled lobby and red-coated porters. Rooms range from traditionally luxurious, with high ceilings dripping with chandeliers, to modern pads overlooking the Staatsoper. Grab some famed cake at Cafe Sacher (guests can skip the queue), sip cocktails in the elegant Blaue Bar, or try the hotel’s culinary delights at the Grüne or Rote Bars.

Doubles from €325, room only

sacher.com

Best for palatial luxury: Hotel Imperial

Neighbourhood: 1st District

The Hotel Imperial languishes in the former palace built for the Prince of Württemberg. It was transformed into a hotel in the 1870s, yet it’s still opulent enough to include Queen Elizabeth II among its illustrious guests. Music lovers will benefit from its proximity to the famous Musikverein, whose entrance is just a dash across the road – some suites even overlook its rooftop – and the Staatsoper is also just a few minutes’ stroll away. For an extra dose of luxury, guests can request their own butler. Try the Imperial Torte in the hotel’s historic cafe or dine at the in-house Michelin-starred restaurant, Onyx.

Doubles from €356, B&B

marriott.co.uk

Best for quirky art lovers: 25Hours Hotel beim MuseumsQuartier

Neighbourhood: 7th District

When the tagline is “We’re all mad here”, you know fun is to be had. This circus-themed hotel, with 183 rooms and 34 suites, backs right onto the famous MuseumsQuartier. Guests can step straight out of the carnival atmosphere, buzzing with pinball machines and a reception desk with the warning “Don’t feed the monkeys!”, and into the city’s most famous museums. If you need reviving after an art overload, you can retreat back to the hotel’s Mermaid’s Cave spa or head up to the rooftop Dachboden bar for a drink.

Doubles from €98, room only

25hours-hotels.com

Best for a cosy room with a view: The Guest House

Neighbourhood: 1st District

This contemporary boutique hotel comes with modern comforts, trendy design and a fantastic view – most of the hotel’s 39 rooms and suites overlook the Staatsoper and the Albertina museum. Deluxe rooms feature a little glass reading nook jutting out above the square, where you can recline with a book and a glass of wine (you get your choice of a free bottle of wine in the room) after a day of sightseeing. It’s definitely worth booking a table for breakfast at the hotel’s Brasserie and Bakery, which has a reputation for its excellent baked goods.

Doubles with a view from €320, room only

theguesthouse.at

Best for living like a local: Graetzlhotel beim Belvedere

Neighbourhood: 4th District

Experience Vienna at street level, quite literally, at the Graetzlhotel Belvedere. These street suites are scattered around the neighbourhood and located in former tobacconists, newsagents and other once-functional shops in the area. There is a central office nearby where you can leave luggage and get any help you need. All apartments look onto the street at ground level (but the glass is one way, so people won’t be peeking in at you), giving guests an immersive Viennese experience.

Suites from €97, room only

graetzlhotel.com

Best for old Hollywood grandeur: Hotel Lamée

Neighbourhood: 1st District

It’s easy to feel like Marilyn Monroe for the night at the chic Hotel Lamée, with its dark wood furniture, electric pink and gold details and marble bathtubs. The hotel lies minutes away from St Stephen’s Cathedral. Outside, Vienna buzzes away, but inside it’s easy to feel like you’ve been transported back to 1930s Hollywood. In the summer, head up to the hotel’s rooftop terrace bar for great views over the city.

Doubles from €161, room only

hotellamee.com

Best for budget: Hotel Kugel

Neighbourhood: 7th District

Hotel Kugel is a family run hotel with budget-friendly prices. Set in the Neubau neighbourhood, the hotel is only a few minutes’ walk from the MuseumsQuartier, excellent restaurants, and trendy shops. The hotel is cosy with a feminine touch; each of its 25 en-suite rooms is individually designed but with a floral, homey aesthetic. Breakfast is included and features all local produce with a buffet spread of cheese, jams, honey, cold cuts and herbal teas.

Doubles from €113, B&B

hotelkugel.at

Best for design: Hollmann Beletage

Neighbourhood: 1st District

You enter the Hollmann Beletage Hotel from a tiny entrance hidden between two shops. Once you’re inside this boutique hotel of 25 rooms, it’s easy to lose yourself in the modern design details. Rooms have high ceilings and bold accents of colour that perk things up. Just because it’s small, it doesn’t mean you miss out on the features of a larger hotel. The Hollmann Beletage has its own in-house cinema playing the classic Vienna-based film noir The Third Man daily, a mini-spa, a living room packed with board games and books and a cosy secret garden.

Doubles from €169, B&B

hollmann-beletage.at

Best for the socially conscious: Magdas HOTEL

Neighbourhood: 2nd District

At magdas HOTEL, refugees welcome the guests. Employees at this boutique hotel set in a former retirement home come from 14 different nations; refugees work side by side with professionals from the hospitality industry. The hotel’s 88 rooms are individually designed and all the furniture is upcycled. There is a large social area both inside and outside in the garden, great for meeting other like-minded globetrotters. Try their honey, which comes from the bees kept on the roof.

Doubles from €78, room only

magdas-hotel.at

Best for modern Secessionist lovers: Hotel Topazz

Neighbourhood: 1st District

Some 100 years after Vienna’s Secession, the Hotel Topazz combines the best of the period’s unique style with modern comforts. Despite the contemporary design, the Hotel Topazz plays on accents from Secessionist artists like Koloman Moser. The rooms feature murals that pay tribute to artists of the Wiener Werkstätte and the oval windows turn the hotel into a jewel-studded cylinder vase from the outside. As the sister hotel of the Hotel Lamée, guests can also head up for drinks at the rooftop bar to wrap up the night.

Doubles from €161, room only

hoteltopazz.com

We may earn some commission if you click on a link in this article and buy a product or service, but we never allow this to influence our coverage.

====== 293 ========

BERLIN HOTELS: 10 BEST PLACES TO STAY FOR STYLE AND LOCATION

With its hedonistic nightlife, cutting-edge culture and reasonable prices, Berlin ticks many boxes for a brilliant city break. Berlin's popularity continues to rise – it attracted nearly 13 million visitors in 2017. Over the past decade, the number of hotels in the German capital has doubled and the options are as varied and dynamic as the city itself.

So where to bed down in Berlin? Here are some of the most stylish and great-value digs in town.

Best for nightlife: nhow Berlin

Neighbourhood: Friedrichshain-Kreuzberg

With a cantilevered structure jutting out over the River Spree, this 304-room hotel is walking distance to the bars and clubs of Kreuzberg and Friedrichshain (just pray you get past the doormen at Watergate and Berghain). The Karim Rashid-designed property is an explosion of candy colours and sinuous shapes, with round-the-clock room service offering guitars and decks for late-night jam sessions and DJ sets. There’s a riverside terrace for sunset cocktails, saunas to sweat out the previous evening’s excess, and 5pm check-out on Sundays.

Doubles from €95, room only

nhow-berlin.com

Best for live music: Orania.Berlin

Neighbourhood: Kreuzberg

A block down from one of Berlin’s most famous punk clubs, this boutique hotel brings something different to edgy east Kreuzberg – namely, a sophisticated ground-floor lounge with live jazz, craft cocktails and contemporary cuisine from Michelin-starred chef Philipp Vogel. In an art nouveau building that once hosted cabaret shows, the hotel’s 41 rooms feature warm reds and golds, oak floors, hand-knotted rugs and supremely comfortable beds, and come with free tickets to the jazz and classical concerts held in the top-floor salon.

lDoubles from €200, B&B

orania.berlin

Best for history: Hotel Adlon Kempinski

Neighbourhood: Unter den Linden, Mitte

Overlooking the Brandenburg Gate, this grande dame has been a favourite of many: from Albert Einstein to a baby-dangling Michael Jackson. Opened in 1907, the hotel survived the Second World War, only to be accidentally torched by Soviet soldiers raiding the wine cellar. Rebuilt in 1997, the current incarnation features a two-Michelin-starred restaurant, three-level spa and 385 rooms decorated in elegant style – think rich silks and mahogany furniture. Major sights such as the Reichstag and the Holocaust Memorial are only a short stroll away.

Doubles from €290, room only

kempinski.com

Best for budget: Motel One Berlin-Alexanderplatz

Neighbourhood: Alexanderplatz, Mitte

Making its debut in December 2017, this 708-room hotel is the 10th Berlin outpost from the design-led German chain. In the shadow of the TV Tower, the buzzy lobby-lounge channels Berlin’s creative vibe with street art murals and colourful Moroso armchairs. Rooms are cosy and comfortable, with double or queen beds dressed in Egyptian cotton linen and tech that includes rain showers. Sign up for the hotel loyalty programme and score a free breakfast and late check-out on Sundays.

Double rooms from €89, room only

motel-one.com

Best for modern luxury: SO Berlin Das Stue

Neighbourhood: Tiergarten

On the edge of the leafy Tiergarten – the Berlin equivalent of Hyde Park – this 78-room hotel was once home to the Danish embassy. Spanish designer Patricia Urquiola’s playful, public spaces mix animal sculptures with colourful bespoke furnishings and black-and-white fashion photography. Rooms come with high ceilings, Arne Jacobsen Egg chairs and high-end entertainment systems, while sprawling Stue suites have freestanding silver tubs. Downstairs, there is a Michelin-starred restaurant by Catalan chef Paco Pérez and a Susanne Kaufmann spa with botanical-based treatments.

Double rooms from €240, B&B

das-stue.com

Best for shopping: 25hours Hotel Bikini Berlin

Neighbourhood: Charlottenburg

Minutes from the Kurfürstendamm shopping strip and adjacent to the hip Bikini Mall, this 149-room hotel is perfectly placed for a little retail therapy. A lobby lounge strung with hammocks and bikes suspended from the ceiling create a funky vibe – rounded out by a buzzy rooftop bar, ninth-floor sauna with views of the Berlin Zoo’s ape enclosure, and free MINI Coopers to borrow. Choose from Urban rooms overlooking the bomb-shattered Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church, or Jungle rooms facing the zoo and Tiergarten park.

Doubles from €140, room only

25hours-hotels.com

Best for romance: Provocateur

Neighbourhood: Wilmersdorf

A five-minute stroll from Ku’Damm, Provocateur is the kind of hotel where you order a bottle of champagne and hang the ‘do not disturb’ sign. Opened in January 2017, the 58 rooms are shamelessly sensual, with lipstick-red or rich teal hues, plush velvet and a bedside switch that dims the lights, plays sultry tunes and beams sexy video art on the wall. You may never feel the urge to leave – though there’s an equally seductive cocktail bar and acclaimed French-Chinese restaurant downstairs.

Double rooms from €119, room only

provocateur-hotel.com

Best for wellness: Hotel de Rome

Neighbourhood: Bebelplatz, Mitte

A stone’s throw from the State Opera house, this Rocco Forte hotel is housed in a 19th-century former bank. The old vault has been converted into an 8,600-square-foot subterranean spa where you can splash in a gold mosaic-tiled pool, schedule a shiatsu massage and hit up the Finnish sauna. Most of the 145 rooms are chic and contemporary, with king-size beds and huge bathrooms, while four historic suites feature wood panelling, parquet floors and the odd bit of Second World War shrapnel damage.

Doubles from €280, room only

roccofortehotels.com

Best for old-school glamour: Hotel Zoo

Neighbourhood: Charlottenburg

Originally opened in 1911, in a prime location on Ku’Damm, Hotel Zoo became the official hotel for the Berlin International Film Festival in the 1950s, welcoming stars like Grace Kelly and Sophia Loren. Renovated in 2014 by Hollywood designers Dayna Lee and Ted Berner, the 144-room hotel marries contemporary whimsy with old-school flair. Rooms have high ceilings, hardwood floors, glass-walled rain showers and plush Maison Martin Margiela towels, while the see-and-be-seen Grace Bar offers top-notch cocktails and DJs on the weekend.

Double rooms from €190, room only

hotelzoo.de

Best for architecture: Hotel Oderberger

Neighbourhood: Prenzlauer Berg

Formerly a 19th-century public bathhouse, this neo-Renaissance building was transformed into a 75-room boutique hotel in 2016. Original features, such as tiles and doors, are layered with modern furniture and contemporary art; old bathing cabins have been turned into bedrooms, while the former boiler room is now a modern German restaurant with 50-foot ceilings. But the hotel’s most striking feature is undoubtedly the 65-foot-long indoor pool in a cathedral-like hall. After a dip, wander down to Mauerpark for the Sunday market and open-air karaoke.

Doubles from €140, B&B

hotel-oderberger.berlin

We may earn some commission if you click on a link in this article and buy a product or service, but we never allow this to influence our coverage.

====== 294 ========

CORNWALL HOTELS: 10 BEST PLACES TO STAY FOR STYLE AND LOCATION

It’s official: Cornwall is where it’s at. Whether it’s the Instagrammers thronging the beaches in their thousands this summer, the urban escapees looking for their own slice of the coastal lifestyle, or the Poldark groupies vainly praying for a fleeting flash of Aidan Turner’s hallowed torso, Cornwall is where everyone wants to be (or be seen) these days.

It wasn’t always like this, though. Not so very long ago (and, having lived most of my life in Kernow, I should know), Cornwall was the undisputed champion in seasonal boom-and-bust – packed to the gunwales for two muggy, traffic-jammed months of summer, and deserted for the other 10.

But things have changed out west. B&Bs have gone boutique. Country pubs and village cafes have gentrified. Celebrity chefs have set up shop. Dawn French has moved here. We’ve got our very own lunar landing station in the shape of the Eden Project. There’s even talk of turning Newquay airport into a space port, for heaven’s sake.

And these days, Cornwall has some really good hotels. Not just quite good, but seriously good. Tell your-friends-about good. And then wonder whether actually you shouldn’t have told them after all, in case they actually decide to stay there, and then they tell their friends about it, and then the place is completely booked out so you never actually get to stay there again.

But don’t fret about it. Cornwall’s secret is out. Here are of our favourites, which means you get to stay there, and then blame us for telling everyone about them, and ruining everything. Don’t mention it. You’re welcome.

Best for design: The Scarlet

Neighbourhood: Mawgan Porth, near Newquay

Few Cornish hotels command a view as epic as this: a widescreen, sea-to-sky panorama over grassy bluffs, the beach of Mawgan Porth and the white caps of the Atlantic. Since it opened in 2009, the Scarlet has established itself as the county’s prime boutique proposition, a Grand Designs affair of glass, wood and concrete, complete with living grass roof and floor-to-ceiling windows offering cinematic views of the sea. There’s no reception: staff check you in sitting on the lobby sofas, then off you pad to your room, which is graded according to its luxury-level (from Just Right to Indulgent). Inside, there’s the same minimalist-meets-modernism design – capacious, open-plan spaces enlivened by so-cool-it’s-kitsch furniture (day-glo plastic chairs, say, or lime-green sofas, or mosaic-tiled bath-tubs plonked in the middle of the room). It all feels quietly, insistently indulgent: there are al fresco hot-tubs on the cliffs, a luxurious spa with cocoon pods and relaxation chairs, a smart bistro and an extraordinary infinity pool that appears to melt out into the Atlantic. The verdict? Cornwall’s swishest, sexiest hotel. No question.

Doubles from £340

scarlethotel.co.uk

Best for old-school luxury: Hotel Tresanton

Neighbourhood: St Mawes

Owned by hotelier Olga Polizzi, this is one of Cornwall’s longstanding luxury choices, established back in 1998 in a former 1940s yacht club on the seafront in chi-chi Mawes. It’s pitched somewhere between an upscale Italian villa and a chic Riviera hotel – rooms are a blend of nautical navy-blues, shipshape stripes, seashell lamps, sculptures and bay windows with delightful water views. Outside, there are terraced gardens filled with palms and subtropical plants – ideal for sundowner cocktails - and on the ground-floor, a bistro with crisp white tablecloths and French windows onto the seafront. Bellissima.

Doubles from £265

tresanton.com

Best for location: The Old Coastguard Hotel

Neighbourhood: Mousehole, near Penzance

This little whitewashed hotel sits on the edge of one of Cornwall’s prettiest villages, Mousehole, a couple of miles west of the fishing port of Newlyn. There are just fourteen bedrooms, so it’s the kind of place where you’ll be on first-name terms with the staff before you know it. Design-wise, it’s country-house-by-the-seaside – candy-striped armchairs, tartan bedspreads, Robert’s radios, wooden furniture and old-fashioned bath-tubs, with a slightly lived-in feel that seems designed to encourage guests to kick off their shoes and relax. The restaurant does good food (the owners also run the excellent Gurnard’s Head pub, near Zennor), and there are tiered gardens sloping down to the sea. But it’s the views that sell it – a wraparound vista over Mount’s Bay and the island abbey of St Michael’s Mount, stretching clear to the Lizard on a fine day.

B&B rooms from £140

oldcoastguardhotel.co.uk

Best for artists: Artist Residence Penzance

Neighbourhood: Penzance

This playful hotel is one of several Artist Residences (there are others in Brighton, London and the Cotswolds, with another in Bristol in the works). It sits in a prime spot in old Penzance, on the thoroughfare of Chapel St, surrounded by salty pubs, antique dealers and sea-captain’s mansions. Wit and imagination are the draw-cards here. Every room is different: some have tongue-and-groove and tea-chest bedside tables; others angle-poise lamps and pieces of upcycled furniture; a few have wall murals painted by local artists (our favourite, the attic Lookout, has its own wood-burner and a handsome copper bath). It’s creative, friendly and fun, like a vintage shop crossed with a designer hotel. The Cornish Barn on the ground floor serves excellent grub, too – although rates don’t include breakfast.

Doubles from £160

artistresidence.co.uk/our-hotels/cornwall

Best for activities: Watergate Bay

Neighbourhood: Watergate Bay, near Newquay

When Henry Ashworth took over the family hotel in 1998, he reimagined it as a ‘ski resort on a beach’ – an elegant-but-informal place where guests could sleep in style, while also indulging in the outdoor opportunities afforded by Cornwall’s north coast. It’s proved a big hit, especially for families, with many guests returning year after year. Rooms are beachy chic, combining greys and yellows with stripes, seagrass mats and bleached-wood floors. On the ground floor, it’s open-plan and informal – staff wander about in t-shirts and trainers, and guests lounge around in beach towels and bathrobes, sipping lattes as they ooze seawater onto the floor. There are three restaurants – fine-dining Zacry’s, the more relaxed Living Space, and the surfy Beach Hut – as well as a wondrous glass-walled pool above the beach. But it’s the outdoor pursuits offered by the hotel’s Extreme Academy that mark this place out. There’s surfing and body-boarding of course, as well as stand-up-paddle-boarding, kite-surfing, traction kiting, wave-ski and hand-planing – and guests are encouraged (if not cajoled) to get out in all weathers.

Doubles from £200

watergatebay.co.uk

Best for boutique B&B: Trevose Harbour House

Neighbourhood: St Ives

There’s no shortage of places to stay in and around St Ives, but for our money, this posh B&B is the pick of them all. It’s on a meandering street called the Warren, a terrace of whitewashed houses which runs down from the train station to the harbourfront. There are just six rooms, but they’ve been done up with impeccable taste: a maritime combo of clean whites and sea-blues, with abstract prints, dangly lightbulbs and mid-century modern furniture dotted around, and art deco mirrors and his-and-hers sinks in the bathrooms. Some offer glimpses over St Ives’ rooftops to the Atlantic. On the ground floor, there’s a cool snug with a woodburner built into the wall and design magazines to browse. Outside, there’s a private patio where you can breakfast on avocado toast, salmon smorgasbord and chia seed porridge. Admittedly, the overall effect is more Chelsea chic than authentically Cornish – but then that’s St Ives all over these days, so you might as well just embrace it.

Doubles from £170

trevosehouse.co.uk

Best for bookworms: Fowey Hall Hotel

Neighbourhood: Fowey

Topped by cupolas and chimneys, graced with a river-view colonnade and surrounded by clipped green lawns, this imposing 19th-century manor allegedly inspired Toad Hall in the Wind of the Willows (it was actually built for local-lad-made-good Charles Hanson, who made a fortune in the Canadian lumber trade and went on to become a baron and Bodmin MP). Despite its grandeur, however, this is no stuffy museum piece – the architecture is Georgian, but its rooms are bright and cheery, with checks, high ceilings and old-meets-new furniture. It’s especially well geared for families, with interconnecting rooms, an onsite crèche and child-friendly activity clubs – and the streets and quaysides of Fowey are a stroll downhill. Note that some rooms are in the original house, while others are in a modern annexe. If it makes a difference, specify when you book.

Doubles from £160

foweyhallhotel.co.uk

Best for families: The Rosevine

Neighbourhood: The Roseland Peninsula, near Portscatho

Squirrelled away on the Roseland Peninsula near Portscatho, this hotel is one of Cornwall’s top choices if you’re travelling en famille. It’s half country hotel, half apartment complex. Rooms come in various configurations, but all are thoughtfully kitted out to provide everything you need for a comfy family stay: mini-kitchens, fridges, dishwashers, sofas and dining areas, plus enough storage space for even the most generously sized of families to spread out. Décor is simple, mainly white walls and plain wood; most rooms have views of the grounds, but as always in Cornwall, splashing out on a sea view is worth the extra. Facilities are ample enough (there’s a restaurant, indoor pool and an adults-only lounge), but the Roseland’s many beaches – including Porthcurnick and its wildly popular Hidden Hut beach cafe – are within easy driving distance.

Rooms from £157

rosevine.co.uk

Best for exhibitionists: Padstow Townhouse

Neighbourhood: Padstow

If anywhere symbolises Cornwall’s gentrification, it’s Padstow – an old fishing port turned chi-chi culinary destination, transformed by celeb seafood chef Rick Stein and his miniature gastronomic empire. But there’s a young pretender to the throne in the form of Paul Ainsworth, whose Michelin-starred Number 6 has become one of the town’s dining addresses du jour, and who’s now opened his own plush B&B in partnership with his wife, Emma, and support from sister Michelle. They’ve pulled out all the stops to spoil their guests. Each of the six rooms (all named after sweets) has its own theme: Honeycomb has a handmade wrought-iron bed and golden bathtub; Bon Bon is all leather sofas and sporting memorabilia; Popcorn looks like it’s been lifted out of a French château with Toile-de-Jouy wallpaper and rococo furniture. Its madcap collision of styles won’t be everyone’s cup of tea – even Lawrence Llewellyn-Bowen might blush at some of the design decisions – but it certainly feels sumptuous, and thoughtful touches such as nightly turn-downs and pillow treats add to the pamper quotient.

Rooms from £300

paul-ainsworth.co.uk/padstow-townhouse

Best for island escapes: Hell Bay Hotel

Neighbourhood: Bryher, the Isles of Scilly

If mainland Cornwall doesn’t already feel far enough away, then the Isles of Scilly beckon. Scattered over the Atlantic, 28 miles west of Land’s End, this remote archipelago is the stuff of which island dreams are made. Hell Bay is the only hotel on the island of Bryher, and overlooks its eponymous beach (if you’re wondering why it’s so named, come in midwinter when the Atlantic storms are in full force). The hotel is decorated in a comfy New England style, with cornflower blue and pale yellow colour schemes, a surfeit of checks and slatted wood, and balconies overlooking the hotel’s pretty gardens and the wide-open bay beyond. The overall effect is rather like staying in a complex of upmarket beach cabins - and the rest of the island (and its many lovely beaches) is right on your doorstep.

Doubles from £140

hellbay.co.uk

We may earn some commission if you click on a link in this article and buy a product or service, but we never allow this to influence our coverage.

====== 295 ========

PRISHTINA CITY GUIDE: WHERE TO EAT, DRINK, SHOP AND STAY IN KOSOVO’S CAPITAL

You might not have believed it possible watching television footage of Kosovo in 1999, but these days its capital, Prishtina, is known for its vibrant café culture and warm welcome. With Ottoman influences still evident alongside the lively modernity of Rita Ora’s birthplace, there are few other destinations just three hours’ flying time from London where you’ll feel you’ve gone so far away. No wonder Lonely Planet put Kosovo in its top 10 European destinations for 2018.

What to do

Take a stroll

Accessible entirely on foot, Prishtina is a city for slow travel and taking it easy – sipping the cafes’ excellent "makiato" or local wines and beers and taking the time to see and be seen on the early evening shëtitje. This is the stroll taken by families down the long pedestrian street named after Kosovo’s most famous offspring, Mother Teresa. Flying above, from autumn to spring, the city’s extraordinary population of crows have their own shëtitje, mobbing in the dusk as the evening call to prayer wails from the city’s 15th-century Great Mosque.

Hit the museums

Visit the well-loved Ethnological Museum, made up of 18th and 19th-century houses set in a rare patch of garden and imaginatively curated, with enthusiastic and knowledgeable guides to lead the way. Free entry.

At the recently renovated National Museum, the lack of exhibits – because of their confiscation by Belgrade in 1999 – has led to creative new exhibitions. The star attraction is the alien-eyed Neolithic “Goddess on the throne” pottery figure, which is also the symbol of Prishtina. One floor is dedicated to hagiographic exhibitions on Kosovo’s struggle for independence. Free entry. (Phone: 00381 38 244107).

Just outside the city

Some of Kosovo’s top attractions are a short taxi drive from the capital. Those staying in Prishtina shouldn’t miss the opportunity to see the 14th-century frescoes of the Unesco World Heritage Site, Serbian Orthodox monastery, in the nearby town of Gračanica. Free entry.

Beyond Gračanica is the popular Prishtina Bear Sanctuary, the species-appropriate habitat home to 19 bears rescued from miserable illegal captivity in Kosovan restaurants. A family-friendly walk around the parkland provides views of the bears at rest and at play, with informative displays. Entry from €1, (Phone: 00383 45 826 072).

Where to stay

The best boutique accommodation in Prishtina is Hotel Gracanica, a short taxi ride from the city centre. Swiss design is stylishly woven with traditional Kosovan features to create an eco-chic modern hotel with a gorgeous pool and views over the archaeological remains of the ancient city of Ulpiana. Doubles from €72, B&B

Another frequent favourite is the centrally located Hotel Sirius. Doubles from €115, B&B.

For lower budgets there’s the hippy grunge of the White Tree Hostel (doubles from €16 room only) but many savvy travellers opt for Airbnb accommodation; there’s a great choice of modern well-appointed apartments for around €30 per night.

Where to eat

For Kosovan traditional dishes as well as international staples, great salads and breads, try Pishat or Home restaurants. At Miqt Taverna you can choose from a similar range frequented by a younger crowd.

Tiffany’s and Renaissance offer a different approach to sampling some of Kosovo’s typical cuisine: neither has a menu, but the waiters will tell you the handful of (always excellent) dishes that are freshly made each day.

Entirely un-Kosovan in menu, but delicious nevertheless is Prishtina’s first vegetarian restaurant, Babaghanoush, which has a great atmosphere and a hipster crowd.

The best breakfast joint is Tartine, where waffles, cheesecake and avocado toast are all on the menu. It also offers open sandwiches and quiches for a light lunch.

Where to drink

To enjoy your makiato coffee (or something stronger) surrounded by the city’s creatives, go to the Dit e Nat bookshop café.

For a range of teas, coffees and the best hot chocolate in the Balkans, try the Prince Coffee House at the Grand Hotel.

Prishtina’s beautiful people head to Soma for drinks, and maybe later to the Hamam Jazz Bar, with its eclectic programme in an award-winning palace of hip design.

For somewhere less self-conscious, sip your raki at Taverna Tirona near the university, or at Traffic Bar in the buzzing area just off the main boulevard.

For something a bit different, go to the Mana Board Game Bar where for €2 you get unlimited game play, including a rare chance to try the Skënderbeu strategy board game based on Albania’s 15th-century hero George Kastrioti Skanderbeg.

Where to shop

Designer Ilire Lepaja has a treasure-trove of a shop, IL Art e Zanat, selling her cushions, bags, prints and cards using traditional motifs with modern reworking.

For a bespoke souvenir, visit Krenare Rakovica’s silver filigree shop, where you can admire the intricacy of this ancient craft, watch Krenare at work and buy affordable earrings or brooches – or splurge on bigger pieces.

The covered market in a fun, bustling part of town offers colourful piles of vegetables, poor quality electrical goods and enormous knickers. The best souvenir from here? Tiny saucepans just the right size for boiling a single cup of Turkish-style coffee.

Architectural highlight

The award for most striking building goes to the National Library of Kosovo (inaugurated in 1982), which received another, more questionable, award in 2009 when it was named the ninth ugliest building in the world. Its 99 white domes (said to represent the hats of traditional Albanian costume) blend Byzantine and Islamic styles.

Nuts and bolts

What currency do I need?

Euros.

What language do they speak?

Kosovo has three official languages – Albanian, Serbian and English. In Prishtina the vast majority of the population are Albanian; in Gračanica Serbian. English is widely spoken in town and a surprising numbers of people speak German.

Should I tip?

There is no expectation but 10 per cent is a good guideline, and rewarding particularly good service with more than this is thoughtful in a country where wages are low.

What’s the time difference?

GMT+1 (Central European Time)

What’s the average flight time from the UK?

Three hours for direct flights.

Public transport

Taxis are cheap (though check they have a metre to avoid stressful haggling where you will always lose), with a €1.50 base fare. The city is compact enough to enjoy on foot.

Best view

From the clocktower of the Mother Teresa Catholic Cathedral. A lift takes you up to the top for €1 but is not always available.

Insider tip

Kosovo Albanian greetings are long and elaborate. Expect to be asked about your health, your family and – crucially – whether you are tired, which is not the criticism of your appearance that might be implied in English. The correct answer is that you are not.

====== 296 ========

LEEDS CITY BREAK: HOW TO ENJOY A WEEKEND IN YORKSHIRE'S CULTURAL METROPOLIS

Why go now

When Lonely Planet launched its list of Top 10 European Travel Destinations of 2017, Leeds appeared at number five – the only UK city to make the grade. A 200-year-old beer brewing heritage, thriving cultural scene and a carnival to rival Notting Hill all served to get this city noticed.

With 16 free museums and galleries to explore, including the renowned and recently refurbished Art Gallery, and more listed buildings than any other English city outside of London, Leeds has plenty to offer culture vultures and history buffs alike.

Get your bearings

Although Leeds is the third largest city in the UK, the centre itself is surprisingly compact. Arriving at the train station (1), in the south-western corner, with the canal running across the very south of the city, you can walk to most of the major attractions within 20 minutes.

Head north-east to find the centre’s cultural hub and the Visitor Information Centre (2) (combined with the Art Gallery shop), conveniently located on The Headrow (visitleeds.co.uk; 0113 378 6977). It’s open Monday to Saturday 10am-5pm, with shorter hours on Sundays and Bank Holidays.

Day one

Take a view

Start the day with a tour of Leeds Town Hall (3) (leedstownhall.co.uk/town-hall-tours). Hear stories of the city’s infamous criminals, see the old prison cells, then tackle the 203-step climb to the clocktower (4) to be rewarded with the best vantage point of Leeds’s majestic skyline. Dates for tours vary.

Take a hike

Now that you’ve got your bearings, head to the Leeds Central Library (5) (leeds.gov.uk/leisure/Pages/Central-library.aspx), located directly opposite the Town Hall. Constructed with Yorkshire stone, this Grade II listed building is a bibliophile’s dream, adorned with ornate Victorian details. Then make your way through the café and bookshop to get to Leeds Art Gallery (6) (leeds.gov.uk/Art-Gallery), closed Mondays, which boasts one of the most impressive collections of 20th century art in the UK. Admire their unrivalled collection of British sculptures and make your way across the bridge to The Henry Moore Institute (7) (henry-moore.org/visit/henry-moore-institute), then walk up Cookridge Street (8) to Leeds Cathedral (9) (dioceseofleeds.org.uk/cathedral). Although the original, larger version was demolished in 1899, and rebuilt on a smaller plot, this Grade II listed building still makes quite an impression.

Further up Cookridge Street you’ll come across Millennium Square (10) (leeds.gov.uk/leisure/Pages/Millennium-Square), the city’s flagship project from the year 2000. A host of major events take place here – and depending on the time of year, you might stumble upon a Christmas market, city beach or outdoor festival. From here you can visit Leeds City Museum (11) (leeds.gov.uk/museums) and learn more about the history of the city and beyond, through varied and interactive displays; closed on Mondays.

Lunch on the run

Pop by Pizza Fella (12) (pizza-fella.co.uk) on Vicar Lane. The chef learned the art of making soft and light pizzas from the maestros in Naples, and launched his wood-fired pizza business just three years ago. It’s since won an Observer Food Monthly runner-up award for Best Cheap Eats. Try a number 10 – tomato, fior di latte, chargrilled zucchini, artichoke, truffle oil – or the vegan number nine, where you can choose three toppings out of portobello mushroom, balsamic onions, olives, capers, chargrilled zucchini, artichoke and chargrilled aubergine. Closed on Mondays.

Window shopping

When it comes to characterful shopping centres, Leeds has got it covered and then some. One of the loveliest is Victoria Quarter (13) (victorialeeds.co.uk). With marble floors and wrought iron and glass arches, these arcades wouldn’t look out of place in Milan, and the retailers are suitably high-end to match: Vivienne Westwood, Louis Vuitton and Ted Baker are worth at least a window-shop.

An aperitif

Head through Leeds’s impressive Dark Arches (14) to Granary Wharf (15), home to a host of independent café bars. Make yourself at home on one of the leather sofas at Archies Bar and Kitchen (16) (archiesleeds.co.uk), with a pint of beer from Yorkshire’s own Ossett Brewery in hand.

Dine with the locals

Take a walk along the canal to The Calls (17), a picturesque street along the River Aire, which once served as the docks. Family-owned Brassiere 44 (18) (brasserie44.com), closed Sundays and Mondays, serves British dishes using locally sourced ingredients, while Shears Yard (19) (shearsyard.com), closed Mondays, offers fine dining in a relaxed exposed-brickwork setting.

Day two

Out to brunch

For an indulgent brunch that’s truly bottomless, start your day within the golden-soaked confines of the recently opened Neighbourhood (20) (neighbourhoodrestaurant.co.uk). Promising a taste of New York and unlimited seasonal cocktails and prosecco, it’s available every Saturday and Sunday, 10am-1pm. Be sure to try the American classic – delicious thick waffles topped with crispy bacon and drizzled with maple syrup.

Take a ride

Walking is the easiest option to get around, but there’s also the City Bus (wymetro.com/BusTravel/Leeds), which stops at various locations for a flat £1 fee.

For a change of scene, hop on one of the two bright yellow water taxis (leedsdock.com/the-voice/leeds-dock-water-taxi) that run between the train station and Leeds dock (21) on the South Bank. These jolly vessels, named Twee and Drie, run every 20 minutes, Monday to Friday, 7am-7pm, and from 10am at weekends – and, best of all, they’re completely free.

Cultural morning

Over on the south side of the canal sits The Tetley (22) (thetetley.org), a handsome art deco building that once served as the headquarters of Tetley Brewery, a 200-year old brand that is now synonymous with Leeds. The building is now a centre for contemporary art. Just like the other museums in the city, entry is free. On top of this, there’s a packed calendar of events, from salon talks to family art workshops, many of which don’t cost a penny. If you’re feeling peckish be sure to check out the bar and kitchen and try a traditional Yorkshire dish, such as a Tetley’s ale and beef stew. Wash it down with a Yorkshire tea or sample a pint of Tetley’s beer. Open daily, 10am-5pm, and until 8pm on Wednesdays.

A walk in the park

Be sure to venture beyond the city centre if you can. Kirkstall Abbey (23) (leeds.gov.uk) is just a 16-minute bus ride from Wellington Street and offers an astonishing example of a medieval Cistercian abbey. Painted through the ages by the likes of Turner and Thomas Girtin, the 12th century ruins still retain a spectral appeal.

The icing on the cake

If you have an extra day to spare, continue with the Victorian theme and take a 30-minute train up to Harrogate. Unwind at Turkish Baths & Spa (24) (turkishbathsharrogate.co.uk), then treat yourself to a 1920s-style afternoon tea at the famous Bettys Tea Room (25) (bettys.co.uk).

Travel essentials

Getting there

The Virgin Train East Coast service (03457 225 225; virgintrainseastcoast.com) connects Leeds with London and other cities. From £22 one way.

TransPennine Express (0345 600 1671; tpexpress.co.uk) links Leeds with Liverpool and other northern and Scottish destinations. From £3.50 one way.

Flybe (0371 700 2000; flybe.com) flies to Leeds Bradford Airport (26) from Newquay and Southampton. From £43 one way.

Staying there

Newly opened five-star Dakota Deluxe (27) (leeds.dakotahotels.co.uk) is an award-winning boutique brand and the first to open in England. Smart and luxurious with just the right level of arty; doubles from £101, room only.

Conveniently located between the railway station and canal is DoubleTree by Hilton (28) (doubletree.hilton.com), offering contemporary rooms with all the mod cons, including 42” TV and complimentary wi-fi and bottled water. Doubles from £71, room only.

Ibis Styles (29) (ibis.com) offers convenience and comfort at an affordable price. It’s on Wade Lane in the north-eastern corner of the city centre, five minutes’ walk from Leeds City Museum. Doubles from £67, B&B.

====== 297 ========

MINSK CITY GUIDE: WHERE TO EAT, DRINK, SHOP AND STAY IN THE BELARUS CAPITAL

Belarus, and its intriguing capital, wants to come in from the cold. Since 2017, British visitors – along with citizens of 80 other countries – no longer need a visa if they arrive and depart from Minsk airport, making the city a viable destination for an offbeat weekend away. And this summer, the maximum permitted stay went up from five days to 30.

Its main Dinamo Stadium has also just been modernised, as Minsk gears up to host the multisport 2019 European Games. Characterised by long avenues and neoclassical grandeur, the city is one of the world’s cleanest, with gardens and verges feverishly tended by an army of workers.

What to do

Remembering heroism

The Mound of Glory monument complex is the most striking of Minsk’s many war memorials. The huge modernist sculpture tops a massive earthwork, was the work of architects and sculptors A Bembel, A Artimovich, O Stakhovich, L Mickiewicz and B Lapcevic. Opened in 1969, it commemorates the huge battle of 1944 which eventually sent the Wehrmacht packing, and liberated Minsk from three years of horrific Nazi occupation. Situated on the airport road, it makes a perfect first or last stop in Minsk. Open daily, except Mondays, 10.30am-3pm.

Harvey’s House

A curious historical footnote can be found at No 4 Vulica Kamunistyčnaja – Communist Street. This was where Lee Harvey Oswald lived after defecting – the KGB paying his rent – from 1959 to 19622, before he tired of life in the USSR, returned to the USA, and killed John F Kennedy. No memorials mark the spot, but you’re guaranteed to spot other sightseers taking photos of the upmarket apartment block, although you can’t go in, sadly.

Stately squares

A monumental axis runs roughly northeast to southwest. At the top is Victory Square, with an obelisk in the centre and cyrillic slogans on top of the surrounding buildings. Next is the windswept October Square, with the Palace of the Republic sitting on one side – human rights demonstrations against Belarus’s authoritarian regime often take place here. Finally there’s Independence Square, known as Lenin Square in Soviet times. A statue of old Vladimir Ilyich stands in front of the parliament building. There’s also the central catholic church here, and a vast shopping mall underneath the square.

Where to stay

Trinity is an arty, friendly hostel with dorms and some private rooms, as well as a cafe-bar. Dorm beds from 20 Belarusian rubles (£8) and private rooms from BYN60 (£25), room only.

Crowne Plaza is the grand old duke of upmarket hotels in Minsk. It’s housed in a historic building and features facilities including a spa, perfume shop and disco. The decor is best described as “dictator chic”. Doubles from BYN190 (£74), B&B.

The westerner-friendly Doubletree includes a coffee shop and chic monochrome decor that feels very modern by Minsk standards. Doubles from BYN220 (£87), B&B.

Where to eat

Hopping, cheap and chic Thai joint Mai Thai is always packed, and rightly so. You can get all the Thai classics here, in the middle of a lovely wood-panelled room festooned with cool modern finishing touches including oversized lamp shades. There’s a nice outdoor terrace too. Open daily, noon-11pm.

Vega Burger will even get meat eaters licking their lips, with its bespoke veggie burgers and vegan food, including soups, salads, falafel and cakes. It’s relaxed and inexpensive; open daily, 11am-10.30pm.

Where to drink

Bask in the Shoreditch vibes of Surf Coffee. There’s a skate ramp inside, raw chocolate on the counter and a neat, no-smoking garden around the side too. Based next to the headquarters of the Commonwealth of Independent States, it’s also perfect for people watching people pulling up in armoured Audis. Open Monday to Friday, 8am-11pm; weekends, 10am-11pm.

Huligan Bar ticks all the boxes, including post-industrial space and great graphic design posters. There’s an interesting range of electronic music on the decks, and live too. Open daily, 8pm-midnight; Friday and Saturday 8pm-4am.

Where to shop

Kali Laska is a cool charity shop where you can pick up all sorts of vintage threads, as well as the sort of Communist-era kitsch furniture that isn’t cool any more, but definitely should be. Open daily, noon-6pm. It’s part of the wider Korpus 8 precinct, a cultural centre that also hosts markets and food stalls as well as live music.

There’s no denying the sleekly lit architecture of Minsk’s brand new Galleria mall impresses like the old Soviet GUM department store would have done when it opened in the 1950s. With western brands including Next and Mothercare, and local designer boutiques, Galleria is a popular destination for Minsk’s fashion conscious middle class, and perhaps shows the country leaning ever more westwards. It’s also perfect for coffee and a snack, plus there’s a supermarket for picking up provisions. Open daily, 10am-10pm.

Architectural highlight

HIghrise Ulitsa Nemiga has a huge communist concrete relief sculpture called Solidarity – which now has a KFC beneath it. The superblock of shops and flats behind thrillingly juts out over the six-lane avenue, and includes the sort of stairs, plazas, platforms and podiums skateboarders dream about.

Nuts and bolts

What currency do I need?

BYN (Belarus ruble)

What language do they speak?

Belarusian and Russian

Should I tip?

Yes, 10 per cent

What’s the time difference?

GMT+2

What’s the average flight time from the UK?

Three hours

Public transport

Minsk has a fast, clean, cheap and simple Metro (BYN65 [25p] per ride) with station names and announcements in English

Best view

Gorky Park’s handsome observation wheel gives a panoramic view over Minsk. From BYN2.3 (80p) per ride

Insider tip

You’ll need to buy compulsory health insurance from a booth at the border for £2 per day if you can’t easily prove you have a policy that covers Belarus, so dig out your travel insurance documents and take them to present to the guard, along with your passport

More information

belarus.by/en/travel

The writer flew with Air Baltic from London Gatwick via Riga (airbaltic.com).

====== 298 ========

SAN FRANCISCO CITY GUIDE: WHERE TO EAT, DRINK, SHOP AND STAY IN CALIFORNIA’S COUNTER-CULTURAL HEARTLAND

San Francisco is a small city – under 50 square miles – but it has a big reputation. It’s the unofficial capital of Northern California, and has been an important stop on the counter-culture trail since the Beat writers of the 1950s and the 1967 Summer of Love pilgrims. Visit in autumn and spring for the best weather; fog and rain often shroud the city in the summer months.

This year San Francisco was named both America’s most liveable city (by the Economist Intelligence Unit) and the world’s most expensive city (by financial advice website WalletWyse). The influx of tech dollars might have sanitised some of the city’s more unique cultural highlights, but cash cows such as Facebook, Uber and AirBnb can’t wash away San Francisco’s knockout location between mainland California and the Pacific.

People have lived here since the Spanish arrived in 1776, but it hit the big time with the gold rush of 1849. Work soon began on landmarks that remain some of the city’s biggest draws today, including the iconic cable cars carrying residents up and down the steep streets, and the ornate Victorian mansions known as “painted ladies”.

What to do

Golden Gate Park

Plans for the West Coast’s answer to New York’s Central Park began in the 1860s, as the city grew in size and stature. Today Golden Gate Park’s 1,000 acres of public grounds are overflowing with beautiful gardens, lakes and culture, including the California Academy of Sciences ($35.95), fine arts centre the de Young Museum ($15) and the Japanese Tea Garden ($9; free before 10am on Monday, Wednesday and Friday).

Walk the city

You’ll see most of the city on foot, and while hopping on and off the Muni bus and train system. In the Mission District you’ll find streets of murals on Balmy and Clarion alleys. Take in the seafront from the Ferry Building by the Bay Bridge, where you’ll find seafood stalls, and walk north towards Pier 39, a cheery tourist trap where sea lions bathe off the jetty. Saunter on through Ghirardelli Square and you can take the Powell/Hyde historic cable car ($7) up the steep streets to the Cable Car Museum.

Alcatraz

The infamous prison, also known as “the Rock”, is an island 2km off the shore of San Francisco. Developed as a military prison in the 1800s, it was a federal penitentiary from 1934 to 1963, and home to some of the US’s most notorious criminals, including Al Capone. Take a half-day, day or evening tour to discover its chilling history ($38.25 for a two and a half hour trip).

Presidio

This 1,500-acre park is a recreational hub, with 24 miles of trails, beaches, forest, a golf course and stand-out views of the city’s famous Golden Gate Bridge. Presidio is also home to the Walt Disney Family Museum ($25), which features 10 galleries tracking the rise of America’s most famous and beloved animator.

Where to stay

For a special occasion try San Francisco’s new Lodge at the Presidio, where all 42 rooms have direct access to the national park. The hotel is a renovation of a historic National Park Lodge, and the closest you can stay to the bridge. Doubles from around $314, B&B.

Try the Inn on Castro for doorstep access to the historic and lively area made famous by Harvey Milk, America’s first openly gay politician, and his fight for gay rights in the 1970s. Doubles cost from $170 at B&Bs.

Airbnb began when its SF-based founders rented out airbeds during peak conference season and added breakfast into the bargain for $80. I visited during Fleet Week, a naval gathering which swells the city by a million, and the free Hardly Strictly Bluegrass festival, which attracts 750,000 to Golden Gate Park, so I felt lucky to bag a private room in Gordon’s home at the foot of Twin Peaks. Gordon has lived in San Francisco all his life and can show you the city on one of his SF Native Guide Tours. From £66, including cuddles with a cockapoo.

Where to eat

Locals argue over where to find the best tacos, and the Mission District’s La Taqueria, with its melt-in-the-mouth carnitas and freshly pounded guacamole is a favourite.

The 50 Best Restaurants recently held its #50besttalks in San Francisco in recognition of how innovative the area is. If you’ve a healthy-looking bank balance, head to Atelier Crenn for a two-Michelin-starred tasting menu, or Rich Table for relaxed dining and beguiling dishes – think porcini doughnuts and sea urchin cacio e pepe.

State Bird Provisions is a hip restaurant on Fillmore Street, which started as an idea for serving quail and has since evolved into a lively spot mixing ingredients and influences as readily as any DJ. Popular dishes include brussels sprouts on toast with bagna cauda, and sauerkraut, pecorino and ricotta pancakes. Trolleys laden with dim sum treats of oysters and octopus also roll by every few minutes. Solo diners can eat at the bar, and lots of dishes can be ordered in half portions.

The city’s famous food trucks follow their own itinerant schedules, but check Off The Grid for details of daily markets where you can sample anything from lobster rolls to Filipino comfort food.

Where to drink

The Buena Vista Café, where Irish coffee was introduced to the US, is full of tourists but extremely satisfying: sip a glass of boozy caffeine at the long wooden bar while gazing out over the bay.

For something even sweeter, round the block is the Ghirardelli Ice Cream & Chocolate Shop; slurp on a shake or malt and watch the chocolatiers at work.

Stop for a house-brewed pilsner, porter or IPA at Magnolia Brewing in Haight Ashbury, which has a great food menu too. From here wander north-east and explore the ‘pan handle’ of the Golden Gate Park before getting your selfie in front of the Painted Ladies in Alamo Square Park. Then head down to The Page Bar, a friendly, no frills hangout for relaxed beers.

Where to shop

If you’re after big brands, head to Union Square, where you’ll find Macy’s, Bloomingdale’s and Tiffany. Explore Chinatown while you’re in the area; it’s the largest Chinese community outside China.

For a taste of the alternative style that made San Francisco’s reputation, wander down Haight Street. Flick through the goods at Amoeba Records and Booksmith, and the treasure-laden rails at the countless vintage clothing stores.

Architectural highlight

The Golden Gate Bridge. This rust-coloured wonder crosses the “Golden Gate”, a mile-long strait between San Francisco Bay and the Pacific. When it opened in 1937, at 1,280m long and 227m high, it was the world’s longest and tallest suspension bridge.

Nuts and bolts

What currency do I need?

US dollars.

What language do they speak?

English, though 25 per cent of Californians speak Spanish.

Should I tip?

The tipping culture is more generous than in the UK; think a dollar or two for a drink and 20 per cent on a meal.

What’s the time difference?

Eight hours behind GMT.

What’s the average flight time from the UK?

10 to 11 hours.

Public transport

Travel from the airport to the city on the BART train in 30 minutes from $21. The Muni public transport system includes trains, buses, streetcars and cable cars, from $2.50 for a single ride, $7 for a cable car and $12 for a day pass. Ubers are plentiful.

Best view

Walk or drive to the top of Twin Peaks.

Insider tip

Your visit can do good! Tourism is being touted as a way to tackle San Francisco’s housing crisis – a proposal has been put forward to build the world’s tallest observation wheel, The Golden Gate Flyer, on the Bay’s Treasure Island. The foundation behind the wheel aims to use revenue to fund affordable housing.

====== 299 ========

VERSAILLES CITY GUIDE: WHERE TO EAT, DRINK, SHOP AND STAY IN PARIS’ REGAL OUTPOST

Yes there is a big palace and yes there is a very popular city a brief rail ride away, but Versailles has much more to offer than its palatial splendour and Parisian proximity. Brimming with history and charm, great markets and walled secrets, the city offers plenty of places to hide from the tour groups and get to grips with the real Versailles – beyond the royal residence.

What to do in Versailles

Learn the layout

Versailles was developed around the stately needs of the royal palace and its enormous population of up to 10,000 courtiers plus staff. It was designed to be pretty much split in two by the Avenue de Paris, with the two most important historical quarters of Saint-Louis on the left and Notre-Dame on the right as you face the palace.

Both sides have churches, shopping streets, restaurants and cafes, plenty of buildings of historical significance, and even matching train stations (Versailles Rive Droite in the north and Gare de Versailles Chateau Rive Gauche in the south – named after the sides of Paris they serve, rather than the side of the chateau they lie on, even though that works too).

Versailles is small enough to discover on foot, but if you want to get an initial overview rent a trottinette (a small electric scooter) at the train station Rive Gauche for €2 an hour.

Be square

A unique arrangement of buildings can be found in the Carrés Saint-Louis, two squares of pastel-coloured single-storey houses that started life as a market under Louis XV. Today the pretty houses hold shops, cafes and artisan workshops, with living quarters on the first floor.

Go veggie

Near the Cathedral of Saint Louis, you’ll find the Potager du Roi, the king’s veggie plot. Step behind the high walls and you’ll discover a large, orderly vegetable and fruit garden, complete with hen house, bee hives, strawberry patches and asparagus rows. Of the beautifully shaped fruit trees, the apple trees have long been grown with an unusual trademark: The Sun King grew apples with his effigy on them, a tradition that is still continued (although you can now also get apples adorned with everything from logos to lucky cats to the Mona Lisa).

Don’t miss the grand gate that was used only by Louis XIV himself to access his plot.

Love all

A few streets away is the Salle de Jeu de Paume. This rectangular court with roofed galleries surrounding it is where the palm game was played – a forerunner of tennis that featured tiny palm-sized racquets. This particular court is also the site of a pivotal event in the French Revolution – members of the National Assembly gathered here and vowed “not to separate, and to reassemble wherever circumstances require, until the constitution of the kingdom is established”. It became known as the Tennis Court Oath.

Visit the Espace Richaud

Through the small Impasse de l’Ancienne Maison de Charité you’ll enter a perfectly hidden courtyard belonging to the former Royal Hospital. A quiet square surrounded by what were hospital wings and charitable housing dating back to the late 1700s, it’s now been revamped into a multi-use space. The Espace Richaud, under the large dome, is now used to house exhibitions. Whatever’s being shown, the columned room under the dome with its monochrome floor is beautiful.

Where to stay

As befits Versailles’s royal status, the fabulously sumptuous Waldorf Astoria Trianon Palace comes complete with Gordon Ramsay restaurant and Guerlain spa. The hotel has attracted names such as Marcel Proust, Sarah Bernard, Marlene Dietrich and John Paul Getty III, and even just stopping by for a coffee and a macaron makes you feel like royalty. Doubles from €259, room only.

In the historic Saint-Louis quartier, the cosy boutique hotel La Residence du Berry is a perfect hideaway. There is a small bar, billiard room and hidden terrace, all set in a typically French townhouse with shuttered windows. Doubles from €95, B&B.

Hotel d’Angleterre is a cute, simple hotel in a great location: steps away from the restaurants of Rue de Satory, the Salle de Jeu de Paume and the chateau, in a quiet side street. Doubles from €82, room only.

Where to eat

Have breakfast, cake or a light lunch at Ore in the chateau. It’s the cheapest way you’ll ever get to experience celebrity chef Alain Ducasse’s food. The breakfast is lovely and the coffee good quality.

Le Trois Marches serves traditional French food with a twist. The daily set menu changes according to what’s fresh in the market, and a la carte dishes are also seasonal. Try the mushroom samosas: too good to be just a starter.

For vegetarian, vegan or simply fresh and healthy food, the adorable Positive Cafe offers dishes such as beetroot veggie burgers, grilled salmon with cauliflower risotto, and good curries.

For a treat, head to La Table du 11 in the Cours des senteurs. Chef Jean-Baptiste Lavergne-Morazzani learned under Gordon Ramsay at the Trianon Palace Hotel, then worked at Le Meurice in Paris, won his first Michelin star at 24 years of age and now cooks up delectable tasting menus at reasonable prices, considering his pedigree (tasting menus from €60).

Where to drink

To soak up the local atmosphere, A La Gaité’s terrace on the market square right by the entrance to the antiques quarter is perfect.

For a cup of tea and a cookie, head down the tiny Rue des Deux Portes and find Les Biscuits de Madame Georges, a tiny tea room in an enchanting setting.

Where to shop

On the Rive Droite, Notre-Dame is dominated by the old royal market, still going strong and without doubt one of the loveliest markets in France (every day except Monday). Four buildings dating back to Louis XIII, one in each corner of the Place du Marché Notre-Dame square, are supplemented by outdoor stalls. The mingling smells of flowers, cheese, garlic, fresh bread, roast chicken, fruit and vegetables are incredible. You can even buy wicker baskets, so there’s no excuse not to go for a picnic, which you’re allowed to do in the palace gardens.

Just off a corner of the market square lies the Passage de la Geôle, which once led to the jail. Pretty much unchanged since 1651, the crooked little cobbled alleyway is now home to myriad antique shops, selling everything from antique books to furniture and jewellery and decorative arts. Several little passages lead off the original alley, and at the back of the tiny courtyards you’ll find more shops and artisans working on restoring old treasures.

Architectural highlight

Well, there is a rather imposing chateau which, try as you might, is impossible to ignore. Be at the gate before 9am and hurry up to the Hall of Mirrors to beat the crowds. Then double back to see the rest.

Nuts and bolts

What currency do I need?

Euros

What language do they speak?

French

Should I tip?

Service charges and tax are included in your bill. Tipping is a choice, not an obligation.

What’s the time difference?

GMT+1

What’s the average flight time from the UK?

One hour and 30 minutes

Public transport

Walk, or take a trottinette.

Best view

From the Apollo Fountain – you have the chateau in front of you, while behind the Grand Canal and forest of Versailles stretch as far as the eye can see.

Insider tip

Visit the palace on a Monday. The building itself is closed, but the gardens are open. You can hire a golf buggy and explore the vast grounds with hardly anyone else in sight.

====== 300 ========

SYDNEY GUIDE: WHERE TO EAT, DRINK, SHOP AND STAY IN AUSTRALIA’S BIGGEST CITY

Elegantly wrapped around its spectacular harbour and posing against the backdrop of over 100 secluded beaches, Sydney is undoubtedly Australia’s most photogenic city. With buzzing markets, scenic coastal walks and world-class museums, it’s no wonder that newlyweds Prince Harry and Meghan Markle decided to jet off to New South Wales’ sunny capital last month.

What to do

Soak up the harbour views

While climbing Sydney’s most famous icon is deservedly popular, views from the Harbour Bridge abound for next to nil as well. The South Pylon Lookout offers a pictorial history plus a spectacular viewing platform 83m above sea level. Tickets $15 (£9). Open daily 10am-5pm​

Explore the Blue Mountains

Venture beyond the glamour of the city to the Blue Mountains. Named after the hazy blue mist that rises from eucalyptus trees, this pocket of wilderness is located only a 90-minute train ride from Sydney. View the famous Three Sisters rock formation and explore the walking trails around the picturesque Echo Point Lookout.

Hit the waves

The golden sand, clear waters and great breaks of Bondi beach attract more than 2.6 million visitors to its shore each year. Grab a surfboard and perfect your pop up with Let’s Go Surfing, Bondi’s only officially licensed surf school. Group and private lessons from $95 (£55). Open daily 9am-5pm, Sundays vary.

Wander The Rocks

Beginning life as Sydney’s original convict settlement, The Rocks retains a historic charm in its cobbled laneways, original sandstone buildings and artisan markets. Drop into The Rocks Discovery Museum (free entry) or join the daily I’m Free walking tour. Stroll along the waterfront and watch street performers entertain throngs of guests under the shadow of the Harbour Bridge.

Visit China

A gift to Sydney from its Chinese sister city of Guangdong, this walled Chinese garden provides a calming sanctuary in the otherwise bustling hotspot of Darling Harbour. Discover exotic plants, secluded pathways and serene waterfalls; keep your eyes peeled for water dragons sun basking. Refuel in their traditional Chinese teahouse before exploring the rest of Darling Harbour. $6 (£3.50) Open daily 9.30am-5pm (+61292408888).

Where to stay

Wake up to the sounds of the ocean at the sophisticated Crown Plaza in the chilled beachside suburb of Coogee, featuring panoramic ocean view rooms, 24/7 gym and heated pool. Head to the nearby Coogee Pavilion for evening drinks on the rooftop terrace overlooking the beach. Perfectly situated for the popular Coogee to Bondi coastal walkway. Doubles from $200 (£114), room only.

Stay in the heart of Sydney Harbour at Harbour Rocks Hotel, a 59-room boutique hotel housed in a 150-year-old heritage listed building. There’s a blend of both historical and contemporary decor; think rustic brickwork with sleek modern furnishings. Queens from $280 (£160), room only.

A budget option (although you wouldn’t believe it from the views) is Bondi Backpackers. Situated directly opposite Bondi’s golden sands, this fun and vibrant hostel is perfect for experiencing the quintessential Aussie beach life. Enjoy free ocean-view yoga classes on their rooftop terrace, free surf board hire and guided walking tours. Doubles $109 (£62), dorms $40 (£23), room only.

Where to eat

With a thriving Asian-born community, Sydney hosts a diverse variety of authentic and delicious food from the neighbouring continent. Inspired by the laneways of Tokyo, Bang Bang opened in August in Darling Square’s trendy food precinct, Steam Mill Lane. Japanese dishes including katsu and sashimi are served up with traditional saké, Japanese craft beer and cocktails beneath a decor of traditional lanterns and neon signs. Vegetarians will love the spicy tofu salad $9.80 (£6).

Weekend brunch isn’t just a meal in Sydney – like surfing, it’s a lifestyle. Stop by Bondi Icebergs Club Bistro for seasonally inspired Australian dishes served on a stylish terrace overlooking the Insta-famous ocean pool and Bondi beach. Follow it up with a refreshing ocean dip. Access to pool and sauna $7 (£4).

Lentil as Anything is a not-for-profit community-minded restaurant based in the Western suburb of Newtown, the bohemian heart of Sydney. It serves up ethnic inspired dishes including curries, dahl and burritos with live music, colourful artwork and a unique “pay as you please” policy. Open daily 6-9pm.

Get a sugar hit at Hakiki Turkish Ice Cream on nearby Enmore Road. Their ice cream is made using traditional Turkish techniques, giving it a chewy and delicious texture.

Where to drink

Named after Cuban sugar baron Julio Lobo, The Lobo Plantation is the basement bar the locals don’t want you to know about. You’ll find it tucked away inconspicuously down a laneway in the heart of the city on Clarence Street. A curved wooden staircase leads into a Caribbean-inspired vibrant underground bar with over 250 different types of rum, reggae-inspired music and trendy art deco paintings. Open Monday to Saturday, 4pm-1am.

Nestled in The Rocks historical precinct, The Glenmore Hotel possesses an old-world pub charm with a modern twist. This redbrick heritage-listed bar is proof that you don’t have to fork out for a pricey revolving restaurant for picture-perfect views of Sydney. Head to the rooftop for sweeping 180-degree views of the harbour, Sydney Opera House and the Central Business District skyline. Open 11am-12pm Monday to Friday; weekends vary.

Young Henrys is a Newtown-based bar with an onsite brewery offering a variety of one-off brews, collaborations and tasting trays. Their core philosophy is to brew local, using the freshest ingredients and to minimise environmental impact with the use of refillable glass growlers. Open daily 12-7pm.

Where to shop

Head west of the CBD to Glebe Markets for a mix of both new and recycled fashion, handmade cosmetics and unique jewellery. Sip homemade lemonade and chill out to live music on the lawn. Open Saturdays 10am-4pm.

Located in the heart of Sydney’s CBD on bustling Pitt Street mall, The Strand Arcade is a two-floor Victorian style shopping arcade. The arcade boasts stained glass, ornate clocks, and a sophisticated selection of both Australian designers and high-street brands housed in Victorian era-style shop fronts. Open 9am-5.30pm weekdays, weekends vary.

Head to King Street in Sydney’s hipster-hub Newtown. You will find an array of vintage stores, second-hand bookshops and rustic hole-in-the-wall coffee houses. Stop by Elizabeth’s Bookshop for a “blind date with a book” and check out Monster Threads for unique gifts with colourful and quirky locally designed prints.

Architectural highlight

The elegant curves of the Sydney Opera House are undoubtedly the definitive image of Sydney and have earned it the title of Australia’s most visited tourist sight. Take a tour inside or simply admire its beauty, best viewed during a stroll along the Harbour Bridge.

Nuts and bolts

What currency do I need?

Australian dollars

What language do they speak?

English

Should I tip?

10 per cent

What’s the time difference?

GMT+11

What’s the average flight time from the UK?

22+ hours

Public transport

Train, bus and ferry

Best view

The Sydney Opera House framed by the Harbour Bridge from Mrs Macquarie’s Chair in Royal Botanic Gardens.

Insider tip

Sydney is best viewed from its infamous harbour but don’t pay for an expensive ferry cruise; just jump on the local passenger ferry for a few dollars. The Circular Quay to Manly ferry will take you past the iconic sights.

====== 301 ========

BOSTON CITY GUIDE: WHERE TO EAT, DRINK, SHOP AND STAY IN NEW ENGLAND’S DE FACTO CAPITAL

Roll the idea of Boston around in your imagination. What comes to mind? Clam chowder, Irish pubs or the Red Sox? Bookish Ivy League universities, tea parties or maybe Matt Damon? The Massachusetts melting pot is all these things and more. It’s where New England was born. Where the American Revolution began. Where Facebook was invented. And it’s home of the Boston Cream Pie, too.

This year, the city has been given a timely boost with the arrival of flight routes from Virgin Atlantic and KLM; new hotels, including AC Hotel Boston Downtown by Marriott and The Row Hotel; and the growing influence of the Seaport in South Boston. That landmark development has seen wholesale changes, making it the second most expensive place to buy an apartment in the United States. Talk about building a buzz.

Add a pipeline of new projects including grand property developments like the Four Seasons residences at One Dalton Street – slated for early 2019 – and Raffles Boston Back Bay Hotel & Residences (2021), and you can see why people are referring to the “Boston bounce”.

Autumn is the best season to travel, thanks to the new wave of students arriving on campus at Cambridge’s Ivy League colleges. With them comes a charge of newfound excitement to shake up this old-time American city.

What to do

Follow the Freedom Trail

The American Revolution began in Boston and the city shaped the nation. Such rich history can be digested on the 2.5-mile Freedom Trail, a red brick road of tightly connected attractions including the Paul Revere House ($5/£4), colonial home of the American patriot who warned of the advance of British troops; the gold-domed Massachusetts State House (free); and a melee of historic book stores, chapels, cemeteries and statues. Afterwards, hop in a paddle boat at Boston Public Garden (free). It’s the oldest botanical garden in America.

Take in a ball game

A night at Fenway Park watching the Red Sox is not just about a love of baseball, it’s the quintessential Boston experience and, as locals refer to it, the definitive sports night in America. With games running the gamut from three-hour snorefests to hall-of-famers, there’s ample time to pop into the legendary Bleacher Bar, built under the stadium and abutted by the Green Monster stand. To land all-action seats in advance from the UK, book with custom sports agency MVP Travel (prices vary).

Stroll Beacon Hill

Cobblestone streets and stately brownstone homes – that is the one-two punch of this historic neighbourhood near the east bank of the Charles River. If money were no object, most Bostonians would live here, for its carriage houses, mansard-roof mansions, independent stores and village appeal. Recent residents include a mixed bag of VIPs including former secretary of state John Kerry, actress Uma Thurman, Jurassic Park author Michael Crichton and hellraiser Dave Lee Roth. There’s an online self-guided walking tour (free) to follow, too.

Swot up at Harvard

While some call Boston the “Hub of the Universe”, Cambridge residents across the Charles River in Greater Boston are quick to remind them the real brains can be found here. The lesson learned is that Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) take up the lion’s share of the real estate, with a sprawling 378 acres spread across leafy gardens, memorial halls, libraries and museums. Harvard students run 60-minute campus tours (free), dispensing pop culture facts amid the academia, such as where Matt Damon wrote the script for Good Will Hunting, and where Mark Zuckerberg changed social media forever.

Where to stay

There’s a perfect marriage of history and modernity at The Liberty, a stylish boutique hotel that was once the Charles Street Jail. Built in 1851, it comes complete with cells where the likes of human rights activist Malcolm X were incarcerated. Doubles from $268, room only.

The Kendall Hotel is a boutique hotel in a repurposed Victorian fire station. Near lively Kendall Square in Cambridge, it embraces the atmosphere from the surrounding MIT campus, as well as the numerous bars populated by off-duty workers from nearby startups and biotech companies. Beyond the Queen Anne facade you’ll find the Black Sheep restaurant and plenty of art commissioned by the hotel. Doubles from $111, B&B.

The guest list at the landmark Four Seasons Boston, a swanky, five-star brownstone block a few minutes stroll from Boston Common, certainly has the wow factor. Big-hitters such as Bruce Springsteen, Ben Affleck, Adam Sandler, Oprah Winfrey and Justin Bieber have all bedded down here, and its Bristol Restaurant is renowned for exemplary New England seafood and burgers. The signature Bristol meat patty has won the annual Boston Burger Battle twice. Doubles from $639, room only.

Where to eat

There is an etiquette to eating in Boston, particularly when it comes to the North End. The city’s storied Italian neighbourhood brims with sidewalk tables, pizza parlours, bakeries and pasta restaurants, the smell of bolognese wafting in and out of doorways. Maria’s Pastry Shop is where to seek out a cup of joe and a fogliatelle – a clam shell pastry loaded with soft cheese and citrus fruit. Mike’s Pastry is popular for its cannoli, too, but your stomach won’t thank you for clock-watching in the dependably long queue. Later in the day, sniff-out Sicilian seafood and pasta joint The Daily Catch, on Hanover Street.

Boston has always had a serious case of maritime wanderlust, so it figures that harbour front promenade Boston Long Wharf is bumper-to-bumper with oyster houses and seafood gastropubs. There’s plenty of clam chowder and lobster, too, all of which can be shucked and slurped at boardwalk eateries including Legal Sea Foods and Chart House.

A short stroll away is the historic Quincy Market and The Union Oyster House, the oldest restaurant in Boston. A foil to all the history is Eventide Oyster Co, near Fenway Park; it’s a new kid on the block, generating headlines for its steamed brown butter lobster rolls. There’s a no reservations policy though, so get there early.

Where to drink

To say Bostonians like a drink would be the understatement of the century. Cocktails are feverishly anticipated at The Hawthorne, a craft spirit lair on Commonwealth Avenue, while Alibi – tucked inside The Liberty Hotel – is where you’ll want to impress a date or out-of-towner.

Boston claims Samuel Adams started the craft beer movement before anyone else, and there are dozens of beloved brews to try at Trillium Brewing Company and the warehouse-style Harpoon Brewery and Beer Hall in Seaport.

In the Fenway-Kenmore neighbourhood, a banner declares the Cask ‘n’ Flagon the second best baseball bar in America. The reason? The Bleacher Bar across the street has a nose-to-nose view of the field of dreams.

Where to shop

Newbury Street is Boston’s most easily navigable chain store thoroughfare, the surrounding eight blocks fanning out through a mix of salons, department stores and fashion houses. Of note are the boutiques on Boylston Street, while the splashy haute couture brands Burberry, Chanel, Armani and Tiffany’s cluster at the wealthier Public Garden end.

The South End is home to SoWa, Boston’s hipster-friendly art and design district, and it’s here you’ll find a mass of vinyl, clothes, retro furniture and bric-a-brac at the SoWa Vintage Market (Sundays, 10am-4pm).

For takeaway eats and souvenir foodstuffs, the nearby SoWa Open Market (Sunday, May-October, 10am-4pm) is Boston’s largest gathering of artisans, farmers, food trucks and brewers. Combine the two for the ultimate insider shopping spree.

The Curious George Store, on JFK Street in Cambridge, is the world’s only bricks-and-mortar tribute to the French cartoon monkey, with books, puzzles and merchandise galore. Down the street is the Harvard Book Store, where students browse textbooks and visitors queue to hear readings from chart-topping authors.

Architectural highlight

At the crossroads of the Back Bay neighbourhood on Copley Square, is an architectural head-to-head few American cities can rival. One end reveals the 19th century episcopal Trinity Church, a gothic-revival masterpiece of stained glass windows and ornate arches. The other sees the diametrically opposed Boston Public Library, a grand palace of free thought.

Nuts and bolts

What currency do I need?

American dollars.

What language do they speak?

English.

Should I tip?

Yes – 15 to 20 per cent.

What’s the time difference?

GMT-5.

What’s the average flight time from the UK?

Nine hours, 45 minutes.

Public transport

Bluebikes, Boston’s bike share programme, or the Boston Metro and MBTA Subway.

Best view

From Longfellow Bridge, crossing the Charles River and looking towards the Charles River Esplanade and Hatch Memorial Shell.

Insider tip

The New England foliage is at its prettiest in autumn. Make a bike circuit around the Back Bay Fens for the essential leaf-peeping ritual.

====== 302 ========

TURIN CITY GUIDE: WHERE TO EAT, DRINK, SHOP AND STAY IN ITALY’S UNSUNG NORTHERN STAR

It may boast grand boulevards, cobbled streets and ancient ruins but Turin, the capital of the Piedmont region of northern Italy, remains relatively under the radar. While comparisons are often made with Vienna and Paris, Turin lacks the self-consciousness (and the hordes of tourists) of both its feted foreign counterparts and its neighbour, Milan. Known as the home of carmaker Fiat – and football club Juventus – Turin has a strong industrial heritage. But now its thriving arts scene, burgeoning craft-beer sector and impressive vegan offering are making it a cultural hub.

What to do

Get walking

The city centre is navigable by foot, so spend at least half a day wandering the Napoleonic boulevards, colonnades (covered streets), and grand squares, enjoying a coffee or two along the way. From there, take a stroll by the river Po to the tree-filled Parco del Valentino and botanical gardens.

Revel in the relics

Don’t miss one of history’s most studied (and contested) artefacts, the Turin Shroud – that piece of linen cloth thought to bear the imprint of Jesus’s body. Decide for yourself at the Duomo di Torino. The Museo Egizio boasts a staggering 26,000 Egyptian artefacts and counting. Entrance is €15.

Football and Fiat

To the north of the city you’ll find Juventus’s Allianz stadium, which is worth the short bus ride or metro for the memorabilia-packed museum alone (tickets €15). To the south of the city, Lingotto, the former Fiat factory complete with race track on its roof, can be easily reached via the M1 metro.

Ski happy

If you’re visiting in the winter and are into snowsports, Turin is incredibly close to a number of ski resorts – close enough to make going for the day feasible. Bardonecchia, Sauze d’Oulx and Sestriere are all within an hour and a half drive of the city.

Where to stay

For a room with a view, try the modern and stylish Turin Palace Hotel. Rooms are bright, airy and comfortable and the hotel’s rooftop terrace is just as impressive – it’s the perfect spot to watch the sun set over the Alps. Doubles from €162, room only.

If you want to take in the city’s history, Palazzo Ciablese, a bed and breakfast housed in a 16th century building in the Roman Quarter, is just the thing. The owners are friendly and hospitable and you’ll fall in love with their French bulldog. Doubles from €130 (£113), B&B

The four-star NH Torino Santo Stefano is located just minutes from the Roman quarter and Duomo. Here, comfort is matched with historic charm – the views from the rooftop terrace are spectacular. Doubles from €135, room-only.

Where to eat

Turin reaps the benefits being hugged by the Alps. For a masterclass in local produce, check out the buzzing Cianci Piola Caffe on the edge of the Roman Quarter, where you’ll be guided through the budget-friendly menu by knowledgeable staff. Expect to pay approximately €30 per person for a selection of starters, pasta, mains and dessert.

Head to Sapori on via San Tommaso, a pasta deli run by a charismatic husband-and-wife duo who’ve been making pasta by hand for almost 30 years (one of their students went on to open Burro e Salvia in Shoreditch). You can eat in or take away, but we recommend working your way through the pasta counter in situ, and watch while it’s deftly crafted in front of you.

While food traditions abound (unsurprisingly Turin is home to the two-yearly Salone del Gusto slow food festival), the city has evolved into something of a vegan hotspot in recent years. Today, there are more than 30 dedicated vegan outlets across the city, but for fresh and flavoursome vegan burgers with Instagrammable rainbow-coloured buns made in-house, try Flower Burger (burger, chips and drinks approximately €15).

Where to drink

When in northern Italy, one must indulge in an aperitivo – essentially happy hour with nibbles. In the name of tradition, head to Caffè Torino on the corner of Piazza San Carlo, which has been serving Negronis since 1903. For a contemporary spin, La Drogheria on Piazza Vittorio Veneto regularly draws in the crowds.

For a fantastic selection of local craft beers and organic wines, check out Birreria Don Giovanni on the edge of the Roman quarter, while just around the corner, wine and coffee shop Caffè-Vini Emilio Ranzini is the type of place you’ll go for one and end up staying the whole night. Neighbourhood hotspot Orro Birra also has a great selection of craft beers on tap.

No trip to Turin is complete without trying Bicerin, an ancient Piedmontese drink which combines espresso, chocolate and whole milk with finesse. The cosy yet grand Caffè al Bicerin on the Piazza della Consolata has been serving this heady concoction, whisked to order, since 1763. Nietzsche and Puccini were fans. The dark oak counters and marble tables you see today are originals, but as the tables are few expect to drink elbow to elbow – it’s all part of the charm.

Where to shop

Turin is a city for chocolate-lovers, which is hardly surprising when you consider it’s home to gianduja, a delectable chocolate and hazelnut spread which dates back to the 18th century. Try it at Guido Gobino Bottega, an ornate shop and tasting room just moments from Piazza San Carlo where you can buy everything from the finest artisan chocolate by the slab to individual, foil-wrapped treats.

On the same street, fine food emporium Eataly is a mecca for locals and tourists alike. It’s filled floor-to-ceiling with the finest Piedmontese and Italian ingredients, but you can also tuck into its produce in a sit-down capacity – the streetside terrace is always bustling. The original Eataly is housed in a former Vermouth factory in the Lingotto district, easily accessible from the centre by tram.

For local specialities, the ancient Quadilatero Romano (Roman Quarter) is filled with quaint shops selling everything from pasta, cheese and wine to local crafts and textiles.

Architectural highlight

Turin isn’t short of eye-pleasing architecture but the impressive 18th-century Basilica di Superga, perched atop a verdant hillside overlooking Turin, is something to behold. This magnificent Baroque church boasts panoramic views of Turin and beyond – you’ll just need to climb the 131 steps to the top of the domed roof to appreciate them. Entrance €5 to see the royal tombs, €3 to climb the dome.

Nuts and bolts

What currency do I need?

Euros.

What language do they speak?

Italian.

Should I tip?

Service charge is generally added to bills, so in many cases there’s no need to tip. Otherwise, 10-15 per cent is adequate.

What’s the time difference?

An hour ahead of the UK.

What’s the average flight time from the UK?

Approximately one hour and 50 minutes.

Public transport

Much of central Turin is easily navigable by foot, but trams, buses and a metro system are also on hand.

Best view

Boasting a distinctive 167-metre tower and aluminium spire, it’s impossible to miss the Mole Antonelliana. Take the nifty panoramic lift to observe Turin’s grand boulevards and squares in all their glory.

Insider tip

Spend a morning exploring the Porta Palazzo food market, where you’ll find hundreds of stalls selling the finest Piedmontese produce. Open 7am to 2pm weekdays, other days vary.

====== 303 ========

GRONINGEN CITY GUIDE: WHERE TO EAT, DRINK, SHOP AND STAY IN THIS UNDER-THE-RADAR DUTCH GEM

With Amsterdam becoming increasingly overwhelmed by a steady influx of tourists, more travellers are looking further afield for their Dutch city break – and Groningen is ready to step into the spotlight. The biggest city in the north of the Netherlands, it’s most famous for its cycling culture, but this little university city also has beautiful canals, historic buildings and the youngest average population in the country. Here’s how to get the best out of Groningen during a short break.

What to do

Explore the city by bike

Forty years ago, politicians implemented an ambitious plan to cut down car use in the city. At the time, it was revolutionary. Nowadays, the infrastructure which put Groningen on the map is no longer groundbreaking – it’s worn in and scuffed around the edges – but the effects are still easy to see, as about 60 per cent of trips in the city are by bicycle. You can take an organised tour, or just rent a bike (from €10 a day) and set out to explore the wide, red-bricked streets on your own.

Visit the Prinsentuin

This lovely garden is incongruously placed just a few hundred metres from the central hustle and bustle of Groningen. There’s some acoustic trick that means that it’s surprisingly quiet in here, and entrance is free. It’s small – a lazy stroll shouldn’t take you more than 30 minutes – but perfectly formed, with a hedged labyrinth, a variety of roses and herbs, and a lush, vine-covered arched walkway.

Climb the Martini tower

The Martini tower, known as the “Old Grey One” in Dutch, and the church alongside it have existed in some form or another for over 500 years (there’s been some bad luck with lightning along the way). You can climb the Gothic tower for the best views over Groningen; tickets are available at the tourism office for €3. Otherwise, entrance to the church is €1, where you can goggle at the vaulted ceilings and ancient organ pipes. The church also provides a public space for a variety of community projects, such as university art exhibitions, so check the calendar before you visit.

Wander through the Noordeplantsoen

A large shady park just outside the city centre, the Noordeplantsoen is about a kilometre long and lined with old beech and poplar trees. It’s criss-crossed with cycle paths that weave around the ponds, and you’ll find students and ducks enjoying the dappled shade with equal enthusiasm. In summer it plays host to all sorts of events, from food truck festivals to live music.

Where to stay

Hotel Miss Blanche has individually decorated rooms in Groningen’s city centre, ranging from very small, standard rooms to sprawling apartment suites overlooking the canal. As always with city-centre spots, the plum location does mean you risk a bit of late-night noise, so request a quieter room if you’re a light sleeper. Doubles from €109, room only.

On the more maximalist side of things is boutique Hotel Corps de Garde, which offers 19 rooms with bold colours and eccentric wallpaper. The shared spaces are particularly welcoming – there’s a recently renovated barroom and library, with some artfully exposed sections of bare wall that date back to 1634. Doubles from €119, room only.

Right alongside the Prinsentuin gardens is the Prinsenhof Hotel. A historical building, it’s been renovated in an original style that mixes up modernist art with antique furniture. The pricier rooms have some lovely details – some overlook the rose garden, or show off 100-year-old ceiling beams – but all come with free Acqua di Parma toiletries and wifi. Doubles from €144, room only.

Where to eat

If you’ve only ever had pre-packaged stroopwafels before, a warm, fresh one is likely going to be a religious experience. Stropiewafel is a food truck that can be found twice a week at the Vismarkt, and for €1.50 it’ll make an XXL-sized sandwich of biscuit, caramel and delight right in front of you.

Bakkerij Blanche is an infinitely Instagrammable brunch option, full of hanging plants and black-and-white touches like a marble breakfast bar. The copper bathroom is almost as beautiful as the freshly baked bread.

Pannekoekschip is – what else? – a ship that serves pancakes. It’s permanently docked, but the antique brass lamps and old engine parts give it a salty sea-dog aesthetic. It serves up a dizzying array of both sweet and savoury options, and the portions are massive. It’s a very kid-friendly spot; for those who prefer to avoid kids’ parties when possible, best to visit during the week.

Frietwinkel is usually buzzing in the evenings, and with good reason – its skin-on frites and generous sauce portions are a great option for tasty food on the cheap. Don’t leave without an extra portion of goat’s cheese croquettes.

Where to drink

At Mout, the bottom level of a traditional stepped-gable house has been renovated into a funky, olive-and-old-wood bar, which serves a variety of Dutch craft beer.

Groningen is certainly not short of coffee houses, but artisanal roastery Black and Bloom is the hippest of the bunch. Its house blend changes often – and it also serves a variety of freshly baked cookies and treats.

Where to shop

Zwanestraat is the natural place to begin a shopping spree – it was voted the most beautiful shopping street in the Netherlands in 2017, and features a variety of small boutiques, delis and restaurants with a clear view towards the Martini tower. If you can only visit one shop, it has to be De Kaaskop, which is moodily lit. Apart from a delightfully broad selection of cheeses from the Netherlands and elsewhere, it also stocks nuts and wines.

De Zwerver is a sweet travel bookshop on Oude Kijk in Het Jatstraat. Although the selection of English books is slim, you could easily lose an hour looking at the beautiful mugs, maps and notebooks.

Architectural highlight

The ornate main train station, with neo-Gothic details and intricate tilework inside.

Nuts and bolts

What currency do I need?

Euro.

What language do they speak?

Dutch – but English is widely spoken.

Should I tip?

Tipping 10 per cent is appreciated for good service, but not compulsory.

Time difference

Groningen is in CET, an hour ahead of the UK.

What’s the average flight time from the UK?

Flybe flies direct from London Southend to Groningen in one hour and 15 minutes.

Public transport

The easiest way to get around is by bicycle. But if cycling or walking aren’t convenient for you, trains and buses are frequent and reliable.

Insider tip

Many Dutch shops and restaurants don’t accept foreign debit cards – it’s best to carry cash as an alternative.

====== 304 ========

ODESSA CITY GUIDE: WHERE TO EAT, DRINK, SHOP AND STAY IN UKRAINE’S BEACH CITY

Buzzing with energy, surprising with quirkiness, impressing with history, Odessa may be one of the most fascinating places Ukraine has to offer. Being a relatively young city, only founded in 1794, this lively port has its own distinct character and a vibrant atmosphere that can’t be found elsewhere in the country.

With new Ryanair flights direct from London to Kiev, reaching Ukraine has never been easier – from Kiev, take an intercity train to Odessa in around seven hours.

What to do

Admire the Potemkin Stairs

One of Odessa’s most famous sights, the Potemkin Stairs, were featured in Sergei Eisenstein’s silent film, Battleship Potemkin. The scene in which they feature is regarded as one of the most influential in cinematic history, due to the innovative use of montage. The stairs also offer outstanding views over Odessa’s port, and at the top a statue of the city’s first mayor, Duc de Richelieu, serves as the most popular photo spot in town.

Visit one of Europe’s most beautiful opera houses

The most precious gem in Odessa’s architectural crown, the Odessa Opera is a sight to behold. Its magnificent baroque facade makes it worth admiring from street level but it’s also worth experiencing the interior. The horseshoe-shaped hall is known for its unique acoustics, making even the lowest sound from the stage audible everywhere in the hall. Tickets cost between 40 and 200 hryvnias (£1-£5).

Hit the beach

One of Odessa’s nicknames is “the pearl of the Black Sea”, and no visit is complete without a trip to one of the city’s many beaches. Start with the central Langeron, which offers plenty of seaside fun during the summer and melancholic natural beauty during the colder months. For the epicentre of Odessa’s raucous nightlife, head to Arcadia, a long promenade featuring luxury hotels, plenty of restaurants and bars and a wide array of clubs, as well as one of the best beaches in town.

Go on an architectural walk

Odessa has one of the most impressive historic cores in Eastern Europe. Visit the Passage, a covered street of shops with impressive facades and numerous statues. Be sure to stroll around the central Derybasivska Street and check out the endless palaces of Pushkinska Street. Finally, uncover the city’s best kept architectural secret – a cosy, neo-Moorish courtyard in the magnificent Philharmonic Theatre.

Where to stay

If you want to plunge into the atmosphere of old Odessa, the Frederic Koklen Boutique Hotel is a great base. Set in a 19th-century manor, it’s as central as it gets, just a few steps away from the major landmarks. Beautifully designed rooms reflect the splendour of the past, yet remain comfortably modern. A high-end restaurant complements the elegant atmosphere of the hotel. Doubles from £70, B&B.

A highlight of Odessa’s design hotel scene, Rooms and Rumours has six music-themed rooms that make for a fun and stylish stay. Apart from high-spec furnishings and sleek design, each room has a vinyl record player. Doubles from £54, B&B.

One of the coolest budget options is Hostel Friday. New, spacious and centrally located, it provides a cheap and cheerful base for exploring the city. Fun-orientated, it has a huge movie screen for collective film watching as well as a PlayStation game zone. Doubles from £18, room only.

Where to eat

Occupying a thoroughly renovated 19th-century summer cottage, Dacha is the perfect spot to try all the Odessa food highlights, including tyulka – a Black Sea sprat – fishballs and marinated chicken neck with tsimmes – a sweet stew made from carrots and dried fruits.

Bratia Grill is a centrally located restaurant dishing up mouthwatering steaks, burgers and an extensive selection of fresh seafood.

For a unique street food experience, head to the City Food Market, featuring 13 food stands and six bars under one roof. With Greek gyros, Vietnamese pho, Jewish falafel, Italian pasta and Georgian khachapuri, this place won’t leave you hungry. Frequent live music events make it one of Odessa’s favourite hangouts.

Breakfast is the most important meal of the day, so why confine it to just the morning? Benedikt serves brekkie 24 hours a day, with an impressive choice of 20 meal options and croissants served 12 different ways.

Where to drink

Stylish, welcoming and affordable, Stakan is the go-to spot for high quality drinks at friendly prices.

Coffee aficionados should head to Foundation Coffee Roasters. The beans are roasted and ground before being served up in cappuccinos and espressos. Minimalistic design, a central location and heavenly desserts add to the charm.

A theatre of mixology, The Fitz serves the best cocktails in the city. Hidden barbershop by day, by night it transforms into the finest drinking institution in Odessa, complete with cool design and even cooler crowd.

Where to shop

For an authentic market experience visit Privoz, a legendary Odessa institution and one of the largest farmers’ markets in Ukraine. There’s a local saying that if you haven’t been to Privoz you haven’t been to Odessa. Visit the seafood section for freshly caught fish.

If you’re into flea markets, Starokonnyi is a treasure trove of antiques – locals joke it’s impossible to come back empty handed.

Benya&Zubrik may well be one of the most beloved and well-known Odessa fashion brands. It makes witty T-shirts and hoodies that mock famous brands – perfect for original, authentic souvenirs.

Architectural highlight

Built at the end of the 19th century, the Archaeology Museum impresses with a splendid neoclassical look.

Nuts and bolts

What currency do I need?

Ukrainian hryvnia (UAH).

What language do they speak?

Ukrainian is the official language but Russian is widely spoken as well.

Should I tip?

Tips are usually 10 per cent of the bill.

What’s the time difference?

Two hours ahead of the UK.

What’s the average flight time from the UK?

There are no direct flights from London to Odessa. A flight with a change would take six hours.

Public transport

The historic centre is easily navigated on foot. Take buses or trolleybuses to get around the city, or Uber if you want a taxi. Avoid marshrutkas – privately owned minibuses.

Best view

Look out over Odessa harbour from the Mother-in-Law bridge.

Insider tip

One of the biggest and most influential arts events in Eastern Europe, the Odessa International Film Festival brings the world’s top movie talent to the city every July.

====== 305 ========

BRNO GUIDE: WHERE TO EAT, DRINK, SHOP AND STAY IN THE CZECH REPUBLIC’S SECOND CITY

The Czech Republic’s second largest city offers a welcome respite from the constant crowds of Prague. A renowned university town, locals and students are extremely well catered for in this burgeoning gastronomic and cultural hub. Brno’s history of nurturing young talent dates back to 1769, when an 11-year-old Mozart conducted at the Reduta, Central Europe’s oldest theatre.

Often referred to as the Moravian Manchester – referencing its industrial heritage and plethora of textile mills in the late 19th Century – Brno’s moniker is doubly appropriate as, akin to its northern UK counterpart, Brno has its own definitive personality, holding its own alongside the Czech capital.

What to do

This is a city designed for walking around in. A stroll through the labyrinthine centre displays Brno’s investment in preserving its history and future, with a keen eye on both modern and classic design.

Tell the time at the astronomical clock

Since installation in 2010, Brno’s main square, Náměstí Svobody, has been dominated by a 6m-high black granite bullet. The clock attracts crowds early in the day as people position themselves by one of the four openings in an attempt to catch the commemorative glass marble, which drops daily at 11am, signifying the end of the 15-week battle with a Swedish invading army in 1645.

Go underground at St James’ Church

Much that’s fascinating about Brno’s past is subterranean. In 2001, the remains of approximately 50,000 diseased and embattled humans were unearthed in St James’ Church during the renovations of the Square. This 17th century three chambered discovery is the second largest ossuary in Europe. Entry CZK 140 (£5); open Tuesday to Sunday, 9.30am-6pm.

Visit Špilberk Castle

The sprawling 13th century Špilberk Castle has served many purposes during its long history. During the 17th and 18th centuries, it was used as a military fortress and latterly a prison for the country’s most notorious criminals and political opponents. Entry CZK90 (£3); open Monday to Sunday from April to September, 10am-6pm, Tuesday to Sunday from October to March, 9am-5pm.

Where to stay

The centrally located five-star Brno Barcelo Palace was originally designed as an apartment building in 1855, housing some of the city’s most affluent residents. The hotel has preserved many of the key features including the light-filled atrium. Rooms are spacious, modern and elegantly designed. Extra points for offering a pillow menu. Doubles from €72, room only.

Brno’s only other five-star, Hotel Grandezza, sits in prime position in the Cabbage Market. The former bank is muted in design with a classic style throughout. The lobby’s hand-painted glass ceiling has the wow factor and a climb to the third floor of the Onyx Suite rewards guests with panoramic views of the city. The hotel’s Momenta Café is a lovely spot to watch the city go by. Doubles from €100, room only.

Hostel Mitte in the heart of the city offers a selection of shared and private rooms or apartments. For those sharing, a fully equipped room with microwave, fridge and cooker is available at all times. The popular in-house café is also a firm favourite with locals; hostel guests receive a 20 per cent discount on coffee. Prices start at €18 for a bed in a six-bed dorm, and €54 for an apartment with private bathroom and kitchen for two people.

Where to eat

The speciality of Kohout na Víně is, as you’d expect from the translation, coq au vin. This and other classic dishes are regularly reimagined on a compact seasonal menu. The eight-course tasting menu starts at 995 CZK (£35); on requesting the wine list, you’ll be led inside to the wine “library” – an ever-changing wall of their finest offerings with a focus on the Moravian region.

Koishi owner Janko Martinkovic decided to branch out into sushi 10 years ago – but only if it was done right. He tracked down and secured the services of a Japanese Sushi Master; that and a keen eye on quality control and the freshest of fish ensures Koishi is a regular on best restaurants in the Czech Republic lists.

Celebrating its 10th year, Borgo Agnese is a consistently good Mediterranean restaurant focusing on beautifully presented food, made with the finest ingredients.

Where to drink

So many of Brno’s establishments blur the lines between bar and bistro as they change their personality and menus depending on the time of day or night. The most notable in this category is the round-the-clock popular 4pokoje (4 Rooms). Many kick off their nocturnal adventure here, enjoying the various cocktail concoctions devised by the talented bar staff, before returning bleary-eyed in the wee hours, rounding off the night with a hearty breakfast.

Atelier may be a recent addition to Brno’s nightlife scene, but it’s quickly established itself as a major player. Owner Milan relishes the challenge of pairing wines with co-owner and chef Jacob’s excellent selection of small plates, such as the rabbit terrine and moreish furikake seaweed popcorn.

The success of a stall in the Christmas market selling home-made apple juice led to the eventual opening of The Bar Which Doesn’t Exist. Drinks are taken very seriously here and they stock an impressive collection of whiskies. It gets very busy at weekends so it’s worth reserving a table.

If you’re fortunate enough to stumble across the entrance to Super Panda Circus Bar and are bold enough to ring the doorbell, you’ll enter Brno’s most fun drinking den. Give way to destiny to determine what cocktail to imbibe. What’s not to love about a bar that serves your cocktail in a ram’s horn perched in a pirate’s chest?

Quality beer is a must here and there are many excellent pubs to choose from. Vycep Na Stojaka so-called as it’s a standing only venue, is a constant favourite. Other recommended pubs include Zelená kočka Pivárium, winner of the Czech Bar Awards ‘Best Beer’ category.

Attracting a largely student crowd, the stock exchange concept behind Pivni Burza adds an element of fun when ordering beer. The fluctuating price of a pint corresponding to demand is shown on screens throughout the bar.

There are more coffee houses in Brno than anywhere in the Czech Republic, so the standard has to be high to survive the competition. One of the best cafes is the light and airy SKØG. They serve their own roasted coffee and a vegetarian menu.

Where to shop

Take a taste of Moravia back home and pick up a four-pack of beer from Pivotéka U Modrého lva. For a fantastic choice of Moravian wine, Petit Cru wine bar and shop holds weekly tastings so you can try before you buy.

A five minute walk from the main train station leads to Galerie Vankovka shopping mall, containing all the usual European suspects plus leading Czech shoe shop chain, Bata.

For cutting edge fashion, city centre boutique DNB showcases local talent; MUSE stocks well-curated directional designs; and Wolf Gang specialises in stylish casual wear.

Architectural highlight

In 1929, Grete and Fritz Tugendhat commissioned Mies van der Rohe to design “a modern spacious house with clear and simple shapes”. Villa Tugendhat remains the Czech Republic’s sole Unesco World Cultural Heritage modern architecture listing, and is one of the finest examples of Functionalism. Entry 350kc (£12) for a 90-minute tour; open Tuesday to Saturday, 10am-6pm.

Nuts and bolts

What currency do I need?

Czech koruna.

What language do they speak?

Czech.

Should I tip?

Yes, 10-15 per cent.

What’s the time difference?

One hour ahead of the UK.

What’s the average flight time from the UK?

Wizz Air flies daily from Luton to Prague in one hour and 45 minutes; from £23 one-way.

Public transport

As the city centre is so compact, it’s best to go on foot here. If travelling further afield, trams are easy to navigate or take a cab. Unlike their Prague neighbours, taxis in Brno are reasonably priced and metered.

Best view

Head to the top of the 63-metre tower in the Old Town Hall for a fine vista of the city.

Insider tip

For increased chances of being the lucky recipient of an Astronomical Clock marble, head to Brno during the Christmas Markets, when these prized collectibles drop hourly from 11am-11pm.

====== 306 ========

HELSINKI CITY GUIDE: WHERE TO EAT, DRINK, SHOP AND STAY IN FINLAND'S CAPITAL

Finland celebrated 100 years of independence from Russia in 2017, but it’s only recently that its capital has begun to carve out an identity as a weekend destination to rival other top European cities. Come for the eclectic architecture – from the sparkling white Lutheran cathedral to the icy marble of Finlandia Hall – and stay for late nights at the sauna and the city’s thriving club scene, where Finns gather to drink and chat long after the sun has set over the Baltic Sea.

What to do

Heat up in the sauna

No trip to Finland is complete without a visit to a sauna. There are plenty to choose from – 80 per cent of Finns are said to have a sauna in their homes– but few are like the state-of-the-art ones at Loyly, where sleek lines and sustainable wood combine to create the illusion that the building blends seamlessly into the coastline. Two hours costs €19, which includes a towel, seat cover and soap for the shower – there is no charge for the customary cold dip in the ocean. Many chose to stay on after the sauna, for an Aperol Spritz with ocean views.

Next to the market square, Allas is a family-friendly sauna with three open air pools – one in the sea, and two heated options. Entry costs €14 for a wristband that doubles as a locker key, but bring your own towel.

Soak up the architecture

More than 30 architectural styles crowd Helsinki’s city streets, which are made for walking. Spot gargoyles spying on passersby from ornate, neoclassical buildings; then head to Töölönlahti Bay to gaze at Finlandia Hall, a concert hall designed by masterful Finnish architect Alvar Aalto. The Kiasma Museum of Contemporary Art is unusually sleek in comparison – it was designed by a foreigner, the American architect Steven Holl in the 90s. A segway tour (€75 for 90 minutes) covers the main sites if you’re pressed for time.

Island hopping

The archipelago of Helsinki consists of around 330 islands, including Pihlajasaari, famous for its sandy beaches; and beautiful Lonna, once a base for storing mines and now home to an a magnificent restaurant of the same name, specialising in Finnish and seasonal fare. Boats leave regularly from the market square. The JT-Line Island Hopping route allows you to spend a whole day travelling between Lonna, Suomenlinna and Vallisaari. The latter is a good spot for a hike and a pleasant picnic.

Where to stay

Hotel F6, a central, boutique-style hotel, is just around the corner from the market square, with stalls selling fresh berries and fried fish. Yet, it feels pleasantly set apart thanks to a central courtyard reminiscent of a Moroccan riad, with seating areas and blankets for cooler evenings. Doubles from €250, including a delicious Finnish breakfast of rye breads, smoked fish and boiled eggs.

A 15-minute ferry from Helsinki takes you to Suomenlinna, an island hostel in a fortress that is also a Unesco World Heritage Site. The hostel itself is just a short stroll from the beach, in a former Russian elementary school from the 1900s, offering dorm beds from €24 and private rooms from €65. Breakfast is provided for an extra €7.90.

Where to eat

Finland has a reputation for being expensive, and while the city now offers a plethora of fine dining options, sometimes it’s handy to know where to get the best cheap bites. Fafa’s is that place – a chic falafel bar serving stuffed pitta breads from €8.90 at multiple locations around the city.

Helsinki has five Michelin-starred restaurants including Grön, which adapts traditional Scandinavian dishes, jazzing them up with plant-based innovations. The chef’s menu costs €49 for four courses and showcases local fruits and vegetables, including wild mushrooms, nettles, flowers and dried berries.

Put a hangover to bed with another pint and the all-you-can-eat brunch at Fat Lizard (€36 excluding drinks). This newly opened restaurant is steps from the Aalto-yliopisto stop on the metro and gives a foodie base to the Fat Lizard breweries, whose ales are on tap alongside other Finnish craft beers behind the bar. Brunch, while not cheap, is excellent quality and runs the gamut from pizza, ribs and salmon to piles of salads, plus plenty of cream-based desserts.

Where to drink

Finns are regularly named the biggest coffee drinkers in the world, but it's only recently that the quality coffee scene has exploded here. Good Life, based in up-and-coming Kallio, serves coffees mostly by three Finnish roasters: Kaffa Roastery, Turun Kahvipaahtimo and Helsinki Coffee Roastery. They also serve eggs, if you can bag a table in the cosy interior.

Late night spot Kaiku is a club with two different rooms, typically catering for fans of hip hop and techno in the same place. The 400-capacity venue in an old matchstick factory retains its industrial character, leaving a wide open space for dancing in the main room and a massive terrace for cooling off with a Long Drink, a can of fizzy gin and grapefruit that is popular with locals.

Where to shop

Helsinki Design District is home to more than 200 boutiques and ateliers catering for fans of the functional Scandinavian aesthetic, from the pleasingly minimal homewares at Lokal, to the muted colours and fine tailoring of Samuji. Pick up a Design District Helsinki map to find the shops and cafes spread across Kaartinkaupunki, Kamppi, Punavuori and Ullanlinna. Look out for open studios where you can meet the artists in their own workrooms, which typically double as stores.

Made famous when Jackie O wore it for the 1960 presidential campaign, Marimekko remains Finland’s most famous export. Marimekko’s designers favour bright colours and flower patterns to keep the wearer cheerful through the long Finnish winters. Spot the branded totes worn by Finns as you travel the city and try on the iconic poppy dress at one of the many stores.

Architectural highlight

Contemporary art gallery Amox Rex opened its doors to the public after a full renovation in August 2018. Inside it is all sleek curves and sans serif fonts, with underground galleries lit by circular portals to the sky.

Nuts and bolts

What currency do I need?

Euros.

What language do they speak?

Finnish.

Should I tip?

Tipping is not expected.

What’s the time difference?

GMT+2.

What’s the average flight time from the UK?

Two hours and 50 minutes. A handful of airlines fly direct to Helsinki from the UK, including Norwegian, Finnair and British Airways.

Public transport

Helsinki has one metro line and a comprehensive system of buses and trams. One travel card can be used across all three; buy from the blue machines and tap in when you board (single trip €2.90, day pass €11).

Best view

Take a winding spiral staircase up from the 12th floor of the Sokos Torni Hotel to find the Ateljee Bar, where you can drink in views of the city on all sides while sipping cocktails.

Insider tip

Warm up from the inside on a cold Finnish day with the traditional seafood soup at Soppakeittiö, a soup restaurant in the Old Market Hall, where an enormous serving plus unlimited bread costs around €10.

====== 307 ========

TALLINN CITY GUIDE: WHERE TO EAT, DRINK, SHOP AND STAY IN THE ESTONIAN CAPITAL

The fairytale spires of Tallinn’s old town attract thousands of visitors, many from cruise ships that dock for the day and fill the cobbled streets with tourists. The capital offers a heady mix of history, from medieval origins to grisly Soviet repression, told through countless museums.

In the evenings costumed peasants will try to tempt you into themed restaurants to try the local ales and mince stews, but stand your ground. Instead, slip away from the crowds and head to Kalamaja, a former industrial area now dotted with modern eateries and bars in former factories, where you can try quality Estonian food for a snip. The area is emblematic of Tallinn’s more recent identity as the Silicon Valley of Europe: stats show the city has more startups per person than anywhere else on the continent.

What to do

Old Town

Get your bearings by heading to the city wall that encircles the old town, sections of which were built in the 13th Century. Platforms offer views across the spires of the old city and out to Tallinn Bay. Walk the section connecting Nunna, Sauna and Kuldjala towers, where soldiers would have guarded the town against invaders. From here take the steep cobbled path up to Toompea Hill called Pikk Jalg, or Long Leg, to see the orthodox Cathedral and parliament building in what was Toompea Castle. Descend on Lühike Jalg, or Short Leg, keeping an eye out for ghosts – this is supposedly the most haunted place in the city.

Soviet History

Estonia was granted independence from the Soviet Union in 1991 and the monuments of that moment in its history have been slowly transformed into tourist attractions. In the Old Town, the former KGB offices have mostly been turned into apartments, but the bricked up basement windows hint that this floor once housed prison cells. The KGB Prison Cells museum displays the written and recorded testimonials of the interrogated (vabamu.ee/kgb-prison-cells). Outside the Old Town, visit the 23rd floor of the Hotel Viru to see the former headquarters of the KGB. There are English tours at 11.30am and 2.30pm costing €11, pre-booking required.

Cycle along the waterfront

Tallinn has plenty of bicycle paths and where there are none, do not be surprised to see cyclists using the pavement. Hire bikes from City Bike or Waypoint Travels and ride out of the city, past the Kadriorg Park and Palace, towards the grounds of the Song Festival, which started when Estonians experienced their grand awakening as a sovereign nation from the 1850s. Continue to Pirita beach, which has lockers, a small market and lifeguards. Or take the bicycle tour, which leaves every day at 11am.

Where to stay

Fans of compact living will appreciate KODA Stay, a concrete box plonked in a car park off a main road. The location couldn’t be less attractive, but these self-contained apartments are conveniently placed for the port and the old town. The open-plan rooms are surprisingly quiet and include futuristic touches, from the motion-sensor lighting and mezzanine bed to sleek, minimal appliances. Breakfast – from porridge to a full cooked option from a nearby cafe – is ordered by text and delivered at a time of your choosing. Apartments from €87, room only.

For contrast, rent an apartment in Tallinn’s trendy Pegulinn district. The area started as a slum inhabited by workers of the Tallinn-Saint Petersburg railway at the end of the 19th Century, but now families and young people fill the purpose-built apartments in colourful wooden houses. From there, the trendy bars and coffee shops of Telliskivi Creative City are a very short walk over the train tracks.

Where to eat

Velvet couches, dark wood tables and low lighting make for a cosy dinner at Restoran Ö, a restaurant that specialises in Estonian cuisine and uses only locally-sourced ingredients. The 11-course degustation menu is a righteous introduction to the very best in Baltic cuisine (€76), from salted elk to fish roe and a selection box of breads with matching butters. A corresponding drink selection (€66) includes paired wines, root beer and a pale ale infused with birch that’s named after the national pastime of sauna.

If you’re in the Old Town, the cool recesses of Restoran Spot provide respite from the crowds. Try their moose fillet, a surprisingly lean and tender meat. The seared pike and citrus risotto comes with a fennel salad and lime foam. Mains from €11-19.

Retro-themed cafe Must Puudel is a perfect place to while away a few hours over cake, salad or bruschetta and pints – go through into the garden if the weather is fine.

Get down early for brunch at Kohvik Sesoon, where the cold beetroot soup is garnished with chopped potatoes and eggs (€3.80), and an octopus tentacle comes curled on seared vegetables and green Gazpacho (€12).

Where to drink

F-Hoone is a sprawling warehouse cafe bar in Telleskivi Creative City – the perfect place to while away an afternoon among Estonian locals. High ceilings, massive plants, exposed brick and big chalkboards create a relaxed atmosphere, but the food and service are impeccable. Try the local Saku beer on tap or venture into the extensive craft beer menu, featuring many smaller breweries.

NoKu, a hidden bar with a rebellious past, is in the heart of the Old Town, on the second floor of a building with a red and blue door. It used to be a members-only haunt for artists, started in the Seventies as a protest against the admission policy of the nearby KuKu Klub. It is now open to the public, but you need a code to enter – just ask the smokers standing outside the door. The bar is spread across two spacious rooms furnished with stripped floorboards and Seventies furniture, giving it a laid back, bohemian vibe.

Where to shop

Reach Telliskivi Creative City either by foot from the Old Town, or trams 1 or 2. This indoor shopping street runs through a former Soviet Kalinin factory at the intersection of the Kalamaja and Pelgulinna districts. The community has transformed the formidable old building into a vibrant community hub, home to creative businesses, small stores and lots of hipster bars and coffee shops. Leave time to for a poke around the World Clinic Record shop, pick up some Estonian fairytales in Bookstore Puänt, or grab a coffee while you browse the Scandinavian-inspired homeware at Homeart.

Architectural highlight

Tallinn caters for all architectural tastes, from the gothic architecture of the Old Town fortress to its concrete monuments to Soviet rule. But it’s worth a visit to the Maritime Museum on the seafront, housed in a former hydroplane hangar, which is a rare example of an unsupported concrete dome (and the museum itself is great for kids).

Nuts and bolts

What currency do they use?

Euros

What language do they speak?

Estonian

How much should I tip?

Tipping is voluntary, but 10 per cent of the bill is polite.

What’s the time difference?

GMT +2

What’s the average flight time from the UK?

Two hours 45 minutes

Public transport

A Tallinn Card grants access to the city’s countless museums plus unlimited public transport on the trams, trolleys and buses – just remember to tap in. You can also buy paper tickets from the driver for exact change only. Tickets cost €2 per ride.

Best view

In summer, ascend the 115-step spiral staircase to the top of the gothic Town Hall for a beautiful view of the Old Town.

Insider tip

The Tallinn Card costs from just €12 and offers discounts and free entry to over 100 attractions, plus unlimited transport.

====== 308 ========

TORONTO CITY GUIDE: WHERE TO EAT, DRINK, SHOP AND STAY IN CANADA’S CAPITAL OF COOL

If Toronto’s barely tolerated slogan “thank God it’s Monday” is anything to go by, you’d think that Canada’s most cosmopolitan city wasn’t up for much of a good time.

That couldn’t be further from the truth. This compact city, on the northwestern shore of Lake Ontario, is great fun. The residents – who speak more than 160 languages between them – are welcoming and are keen to show off their booming city, which is becoming more and more recognisable thanks to its multiple appearances on the big screen. Did you really think Suits was filmed in New York?

Its compactness means that, firstly, Toronto is incredibly easy to get around, with a small metro and tram system. Secondly, it has distinct neighbourhoods sitting side by side. There’s the Distillery District (former grain stores converted into restaurants, cafes and posh boutiques); hippy Dundas West with cafes and bars; and slick downtown, Toronto’s Financial District and home to its skyscrapers.

The city, the capital of the province of Ontario, has been given a shot in the arm with a slew of new hotels (Kimpton Saint George and the Anndore, formerly a Comfort Inn, are two recent openings), new flight routes (low-cost Primera Air launched flights to Toronto from Stansted in summer 2018) and landmark new developments (the first integrated Nobu complex, featuring a hotel, residences and restaurants is due to open in 2020).

Autumn is the best time to go: the humidity drops and gorgeous leaves appear thanks to brisker temperatures. Add to that a line-up of festivals including the Nuit Blanche arts festival, which takes place at the end of September, and you’ve got yourself the perfect long weekend.

What to do

Go up the CN Tower

Toronto’s CN Tower may have long been eclipsed as the world's tallest free-standing structure, but the radio tower remains the city’s best-loved icon. The best way to experience it (if you don’t fancy the daredevil Edge Walk) is the excellent viewing platform: take a glass-bottomed lift 346 metres up for a panoramic view of Toronto and its lush green islands.

For aviation geeks, the south-facing windows of the viewing gallery overlook planes taking off and landing into Toronto City Airport. And, for those brave enough, there’s a glass-bottomed floor to walk on.

Cruise to the Toronto Islands

A couple of miles from the city’s waterfront is a chain of green islands. The crescent-shaped Centre Island is the largest and most easily accessible – and ideal for a quiet afternoon of walking, cycling and picnicking overlooking Canada’s most impressive skyline.

See some graffiti

Tour Guys runs a free 90-minute walking tour (although polite to tip CA$10) around the back alleys of offbeat Queen Street West, explaining Toronto’s enduring fascination with graffiti – so much so that there’s even a street named in the art form’s honour (Graffiti Alley). Enjoy an eclectic collection of artists’ tags, colourful murals or Toronto icons rendered by spray can.

Wander along the waterfront

Toronto’s waterfront district is a lesson in best practice for public space. Beneath the glossy high-rises of downtown are elegant wooden boardwalks, small stretches of artificial beach (some with deck chairs that are free to use – but bag them early) and a string of al fresco restaurants and bars ideal for autumnal chilling.

Where to stay

The new Kimpton Saint George, just opened on Bloor Street up the road from the landmark part-glass, part-Italianate brick Royal Museum of Art, is a trendy (but low-key) addition to the Torontonian hotel scene. Chic rooms, in a colour scheme of grey and teal, are comfortable and spacious, with views over the university district. Gastropub The Fortunate Fox is a lively locals’ spot that doesn’t immediately feel like a hotel restaurant. Doubles from CA$329, room only.

Toronto is the home of the Four Seasons hotel brand and the city’s own incarnation is in historic Yorkville. It’s everything you would expect from the home city of this turbo-luxe property: superior service, local flavour (Canadian artwork is studded throughout) and award-winning French cuisine at Daniel Boulud’s Café Boulud. Doubles from £416, room only.

Where to eat

If you’re in Toronto, you’re probably going to want to eat poutine. The soupy combination of cheese curds and gravy slathered on chips might look like drunk food, but it’s a Canadian staple and don’t let anybody tell you otherwise. Poutini’s House of Poutine, with two branches in Toronto, takes the dish so seriously that poutine appears twice in the name.

Toronto’s premier celeb hangout is One in the chic Hazelton Hotel in Yorkville (the food’s alright too). Local chef Mark McEwan has brought home the bacon – and a lot more – to this casual neighbourhood spot. On my visit, basketball ace Tristan Thompson was casually hanging out and Le Bron was there a few days previously. Fun dishes on the classic menu – including lobster spoons, Korean chicken tacos and proper hotel comfort food such as burgers and cobb salads, make the menu – and its sophisticated wraparound terrace for warm days make this a solid-gold bet.

Moments away from Toronto’s business district is Saint Lawrence Market, a two-level covered food market that dates back to 1803. Insider are 64 merchants, selling everything from artisan sausages and Montreal bagels to Alaskan crab and crocodile burgers. The quintessential Toronto foodie experience here is found at Carousel Bakery: a fat peameal bacon bun, washed down with a cappuccino from Everyday Gourmet Coffee Roasters downstairs. When the weather’s good, eat outside on the large terrace.

Where to drink

Toronto’s most famous export, and its biggest champion, is rapper Drake. Unfortunately he has absolutely nothing to do with the Drake hospitality group, which has a handful of swaggering restaurants, bars and even a hotel in central Toronto. Part of its stable is Drake One Fifty in the Financial District, a super-sexy, red-and-green brasserie with live DJs and a killer cocktail list.

Meanwhile, The Comrade in the East End is a dim-lit speakeasy stuffed with taxidermy and Toronto’s pretty young things.

Where to shop

Queen Street is one of Toronto’s major spines – but it’s the western end that gets interesting and hip, if awards for “trendiest neighbourhood” are anything to go by. Queen Street West is where boutiques selling things such as vapes, tattoos and vintage clothing can be found, plus there’s street art for those who wish to venture off down the alleyways.

The long stretch of Bloor Street around the Yorkville neighbourhood is home to some of the world’s best big-boy luxury brands, including Cartier, Prada and Gucci, as well as high-street brands J.Crew and H&M. And for bargain hunters, there’s a mega branch of Nordstrom Rack, which sells discounted luxury clobber and homewares.

Architectural highlight

Fan of concrete? Don’t miss the Robarts Library, right by Toronto University. This brutalist heifer is better known by its nickname: Fort Book. Whether you consider it a monstrosity or a prime example of modernist architecture, it’s an impressive structure regardless.

Nuts and bolts

What currency do I need?

Canadian dollars.

What language do they speak?

English.

Should I tip?

Yes, 15 to 20 per cent.

What’s the time difference?

Toronto is five hours behind the UK

What’s the average flight time from the UK?

About eight hours; a handful of carriers fly direct from the UK to Toronto, including British Airways, Air Canada and Primera Air.

Public transport

The TTC, Toronto’s subway, streetcar and bus system costs C$2.90 a ride with a Presto card.

Insider tip

Toronto’s growing network of cycle routes – the nicest being along the waterfront – and its compact size means cycling is the ideal way to get around.

====== 309 ========

WHAT IT'S LIKE TO LOSE YOUR SKI TOURING VIRGINITY IN NORWAY

With skis desperately gripping the sugary snow and forehead slick with sweat as I stand panting heavily, I have one of those moments where I wonder if this might be how I die.

Yes, I have a taste for melodrama. But I also honestly don’t know how I’m going to make it down the next hundred metres or so of rugged terrain, all of it blanketed in unstable, unforgiving spring snow.

As I hesitate, wanting to put off the moment of attempting another turn (aka another battle with gravity that I will surely lose), I let myself get distracted by the view: a pleasingly sparse landscape of white-clad, undulating peaks, elegantly bare-branched trees and a blue-tinted frozen lake. Other than a handful of burgundy buildings, there is no sign of habitation – no lifts, pistes or indeed other skiers to ruin the uncluttered scene. It feels as pure as nature can get.

This is why people come ski touring in this particular corner of Norway, sliding their way up Tarven, a 1,700m mountain only accessible by railway, in a painstakingly slow, zigzag formation. The solitude is intoxicating.

I had experienced my first taste of touring only a few days earlier in Myrkdalen as part of a Freeride the Fjords package, which includes two days in the resort and two days of guided ski touring. I now feel ever-so-slightly out of my depth.

Used to the French mega resorts of the Alps, Myrkdalen seemed quaintly bijou when we arrived, with just one hotel, one ski school, one hire shop, nine lifts and 21 pistes. But this, it transpires, is entirely intentional. Just 15 years ago, there was nothing here but agricultural land; expansion has been slow and steady, with a focus on sustainability rather than speed. The resort plans to build just one new lift every five years, with the money coming from accommodation offerings being developed alongside the infrastructure so that capacity grows in line with visitor numbers. It’s a clever trick.

And one that clearly works, if the empty slopes I experienced were anything to go by. As we explored the ski area, all gently rolling hills, I was taken with how large and open it felt. It’s partly down to how little the area has been developed, and partly down to the landscape itself – there’s no sense of being hemmed in between Norway’s mountains, far softer and lower than their spiky Alpine counterparts.

Don’t be fooled – lack of altitude doesn’t mean lack of snow. Myrkdalen was covered in the stuff, with 4m up top (1,060m) and 2m at the base (450m) in April. There’s good skiing to be found well into June, apparently – though the resort officially closes in May.

After an enjoyable warmup on wide blues, it was time to lose my touring virginity – something I was mildly dreading. Suddenly I had to become a master of different boots, a whole new style of clipping into my skis and, key to the whole process, skins, long strips that adhere to the underside of your skis and slide forward in one direction but not back in the other.

Starting from the highest T-bar lift at 1,060m, we set off beneath a scorching sun in a cloudless dome of cornflower. Unsteady as Bambi taking his first steps, I wobbled my way along for the first few minutes, desperately trying to keep up with the group as I inwardly swore and my thighs burned. It turned out my technique was the problem – “try to slide more, like you’re on skates”, our guide Simon instructed.

After 10 minutes, something clicked. I found my rhythm, striding forth smoothly with delighted confidence.

All was silent bar the swoosh of skins on snow, my heart pounding in my ears and the occasional exclamation of “bloody hell!” – whether at the flawless view or the exertion, it was hard to say. Beneath our feet, the sun-warmed snow had turned to crystalline sugar; I kept stopping to take pictures that hadn’t a hope in hell of doing it any justice.

We reached the highest point, 300m from where we started, in 90 minutes. And, finally, I got the point of it all. It wasn’t that the whole valley was laid out at our feet; it wasn’t even that we’d get to ski down the completely empty slope below, sparkling enticingly in the April sunshine. I suddenly realised I’d actually enjoyed the climb itself, albeit in a slightly masochistic way – it was satisfying to look back at where we’d come from and know I’d done that, even if I was huffing and puffing like a broken steam engine.

Which was lucky, considering how little I enjoyed the downhill journey. Skins came off, heels came down and, “Whooooaaaa…!”

